CHAPTER I.

Bon in one week, and in one font baptized
On the same festal day, they grew together,
And their first tottering steps were hand in hand,
While the two fathers, in half-earnest sport,
Betrothed them to each other."

Hartley Coleridge.

I MUST begin my story by requesting the Reader to
go back with me over some twenty or thirty years
already trodden by the foot of Time ; and to walk
with me to the door of a snug and pretty house,
situated about a mile from a small market town
in the county of Somerset. The evening is just
beginning to close in as we turn off from the ,
cross a stile, and pass through a fine
field of corn, ready for the sickle. Brightly shine
the blue corn-flowers and ruddy poppies amongst
the golden ears, and thickly twines the wild
clematis in the green hedgerow. This neat gate,
at the bottom of the field, leads us into a large
orchard, full of all kinds of ripe apples, waiting for

VOL. I. B

the hungry jaws of the cider-mill; in the midst is
a huge round pigeon-house, towards which pigeons,
are flocking, as to their dormitory. We pass the
well perforated pigeon-house, and, emerging from
the orchard through another neat gate, circumnavigate
a pond full of sleepy ducks and geese,
cross the road, and reach an ornamental wicket,
flanked by a trim hedge of laurel and privet. We
venture through this inviting entrance, and find
ourselves in a small court, in front of a low-roofed
thatched house, covered with roses and Virginian
creeper, into whose latticed windows we long to
peep, sure of finding peace and plenty within.
Before knocking at the door, we glance round us,
and see another ornamental wicket-gate opposite
us, dividing more trim hedges of laurel and privet,
through which we spy a straight gravel walk, and
the heads of sunflower, hollyhocks, and dahlias,
that stand up proudly to look at the setting sun
through some dark yew-trees at the bottom of the
path. We just peep over the hedge, into the
prettiest of gardens; but politeness prevents our
being too inquisitive.

From certain rural sounds, of men whistling,
cattle lowing, horses tramping, poultry cackling,
and human voices answering human voices, we feel
convinced that there must be a large farm-yard

somewhere at the back , but we are not permitted
to see any of the detail here in the front. We
have nothing but the trim hedges the towering
flowers , a glimpse of a green meadow on the left,
and on the right, the top of the huge pigeon-house
surmounted by some splendid elms, that give welcome
to a colony of rooks, cawing themselves to
rest.

We knock at the door, and are admitted by a
rosy country girl into a passage, where is a stand
of geraniums, and thence conducted into a large
hall, where we will sit down in a corner, invisible
as ghosts by daylight, and look about us.

This hall is a substantial apartment, panelled
with black oak. Heavy oaken rafters form the
ceiling, and polished oaken planks the floor ; over
the middle of the latter is a piece of Indian matting.
An oaken chimney corner usurps a third of
one side of the room, on the hearth of which are
placed two bright steel dogs, or andirons. Across
these dogs lie big logs of wood, that burn with all
their hearts, and as if they took a pleasure in enlivening
by their cheerful flames the party assembled
near them.

Seated at a table, with a very large work-box
open before her, and a basket containing all kinds
of stockings by her side, sits a young girl, engaged

bin

sewing a button on a boy's waistcoat. She maybe
about sixteen or seventeen years old, and looks
very smiling and good-tempered, despite the hard
labour she finds it to force a thick needle through a
thicker cloth into the thickest and most obdurate
of buttons. By her side, minutely examining the
contents of her work-box, sits a youth about her
own age, of a grave and sedate countenance ; and
opposite the pair, a curly-headed, pale little boy,
busily occupied in covering a piece of paper with
hieroglyphical pencil-marks. In a large green chair
is a jolly, sunburnt, elderly man, smoking a pipe.
He has settled himself in one chimney corner,
from whence he looks complacently about him;
whilst in the opposite chimney corner sits a tall,
middle-aged woman, erect and stately, knitting
or knotting, or doing some curious ornamental
work, of twenty years ago. On a huge oak settle,
that stretches from one side of the chimney half
down the room, and partly encircles the whole
party with a protecting arm, are three children of
various ages. The eldest, a boy of about fifteen, is
reading, or seeming to read, but still listening to,
and occasionally joining in, the conversation of the
rest. As he leans carelessly over the arm of the
settle, to let the blaze from the fire fall upon his
book, an anxious, thoughtful expression steals over

his face, and makes him look too care-worn for his
years.

The other two children, a boy and girl, are
twins, and as much alike as twins are usually supposed
to be. They are remarkably handsome, and
apparently as remarkably idle, for a pile of lesson-books
lies unopened by the side of the boy, together
with a small unfinished boat; and near the
girl is a piece of needlework, with the needle and
thread hanging loosely upon it ; whilst the pair are
occupied in tying together a bunch of ripe corn-ears,
of unusually large growth, and occasionally
picking out a grain and eating it. When they
have finished this business, the boy rises, and
having called the attention of the party to the
size and splendour of his autumn bouquet, stands
upon a chair and fastens it by a string to the
mantelpiece, which, unlike our modern ones, is
nearer the ceiling by a yard than the floor. This
being achieved, he jumps down rather noisily, and
stumbles against the quiet possessor of the pipe,
who utters a growl ; then peeps over the shoulder
of the younger child at the table, and giving him
a hearty knock on the crown of his head, exclaims,
 "Well done, Charley ! I declare if it isnH as like
as it can stare. Look, Captain Burford ! Aunty,
look ! If he hasn't made a capital likeness of Jessie
and Nelson ! "

' Oh, Peter, how rough you are !" said Charley,
yielding up reluctantly the paper his brother had
seized upon, and rubbing dolorously the crown of
his head.

'By Neptune, that's not so bad V said Captain
Burford, handing the paper over to his opposite
neighbour, when he had examined it. " We must
make an artist of him, after all. What do you
think of your nephew, Miss Burton? Shall we
apprentice him to the arts V

I do not think my poor brother would have
thought of apprenticing him to anything," replied
Miss Burton, looking at the paper through an eyeglass
;  I hope we are not fallen so low as that.
And as to an artist, he would as soon have thought
of making him a shoemaker."

Charley hung down his head, and Captain Burford
laughed.

And why not a shoemaker ?" he asked ; '' it is
a very respectable and useful profession, and it will
be ' all the same a hundred years hence what he
is."

You always put one down with that very uncomfortable
sentence," said Miss Burton with an
irritated voice.

'let me see the likeness," said Jessie, laying
aside the waistcoat. "Well, I declare, it is like

you, Nelson ; but if this is like me, I am certainly
no beauty."

Oh, but you are a beauty, Jessie," exclaimed
Charley ; " you have such a nice smile."

Oh, my dear," said Miss Burton, " it requires
something more than a smile to make a beauty,"
and she drew herself up with a proud consciousness
of good looks.

"This really would be like you, Jessie," said
Nelson, " if it had the smile."

"Just give it to me," said Charley. "Now,
Jessie dear, laugh. Look again now, Nelson."

That is capital !" said Nelson. " Why you area
great genius, Charley, and no mistake."

The little boy smiled and blushed. The picture
was again handed round, and finally secured by
Nelson, who carefully put it in his pocket-book.

Why don't you sketch me ?" asked the young
lady on the settle, speaking for the first time, and
putting herself in an attitude.

You're not good-looking enough. Miss Anna,"
immediately broke in the bookworm, also speaking
for the first time ; " is she, Aunt Betsey ?"

Pynsent ! you always discourage that dear
child," whispered Aunt Betsey. " You know she
and Peter are the only ones who inherit the family
beauty."

Very complimentary !" said Pynsent ; and with
a shrug of his shoulders he resumed his book.

At this crisis the red checked servant-maid
came in with a letter which she presented to Aunt
Betsey.

Why do you not bring the letters on a waiter,
Dinah ?" asked Aunt Betsey in a displeased tone
of voice.

Iz sure, Maam," said Dinah, making a hasty
exit.

Excuse me' said Aunt Betsey, glancing round
apologetically, as she opened the letter and took up
the eye-glass.

To be sure V said the Captain impatiently ; adding
to himself in an under-tone, " Why done she
make haste''

All eyes were fixed on the letter, which seemed
only to cover one side of the sheet, though it took
a long time to read.

So, Ma'am ?" at last suggested the Captain interrogatively.


I thought so," said Aunt Betsey majestically ;
"but you would insist on my writing. Nothing
satisfactory to be obtained from those sort of people's


I suppose I may see it, as your co-guardian ?"
said the Captain.

Aunt Betsey passed over the letter, and he read
it attentively, but speedily.

' Odds bobs, Madam !" lie said, when he had
finished, " what would you have ? why the good gentleman
offers to educate one of the girls

Educate, indeed ! and for a governess ! what
would my dear brother  ''

Your dear brother. Ma'am, and my good friend,
is, I am sorry to say, no more ; and we must consult
prudence, and look at things as they are. Co-trustee
number three,  Fm poetical, you see, 
what do you think of the matter?"

Here the Captain handed the letter to Jessie,
who read it in her turn. She looked perplexed at
the disputants, but said, ' Why, Aunty, it really is
very kind. He says not only that he will educate
one of the girls, but that if the boys are steady and
turn out well, he may lend them a helping hand
one of these days. I think we should be very
thankful."

Very fine for you, my dear," said Aunt Betsey :
"you are too old to be sent to school, and then
made a governess of."

I only wish I were not," said Jessie.

Here a long discussion ensued between the
Captain and Miss Burton, in which Jessie was
occasionally called upon to take a part, by an

b3

appeal from the former to her " good sense,"
or better judgments concerning the propriety
of submitting Miss Annabella Burton,  the little
girl now pouting on the settle,  to the horrors of
a first-rate education, with a view to her becoming
a governess. An elderly bachelor uncle in London,
whom none of the present party had ever seen,
proposed putting her to a good school for some
years as a pupil; then making a teacher and
learner of her in the same school, and finally
launching her on life as a governess. The discussion
was gradually warming into a quarrel, in spite
of Jessicass quiet interference, when it was put' a
stop to by Miss Anna herself, who said suddenly,
interrupting Captain Burford 

But, Captain Burford, I done want to be a
governess."

' The devil you done !" said the Captain in an
angry tone ; " pray then, little Miss, what may
you want to be?"

I want to be a lady, and marry an officer," was
the reply, with a naughty toss of the head,

A general laugh put the disputants in good
humour.

But, you proud little minx," said the Captain,
' you know Nelson is going to marry Jessie. They
have been engaged ever since they were born."

'' Oh! I know that' said Anna; 'but I don't
mean to marry Nelson'

And pray on what officer may you have fixed
your affections ?" asked the Captain.

Again Anna tossed her head.

But, my dear Anna' here interrupted Jessie,
if you mean to marry an officer, you must be
very accomplished. You must play, and sing, and
dance, and draw, and I know not what besides."

Must I ?" said the little girl, running towards
her sister; " then perhaps I will go to school and
learn all these things ; and then, you know, I can
marry when I leave school, and shouldn't need to
be a governess. I should like to go to a grand
school. Aunt Betsey, very much. Will you write
and tell Uncle Timothy that I am very much
obliged to him?"

Aunt Betsey was softened at once. She had no
doubt that any girl possessing, as Anna did, the
Burton beauty, would be sure to marry as soon
as she left school ; so she yielded, for once, to her
co-trustees.

I declare we are nearly all settled now,"
remarked the Captain, taking a very long pull at
his pipe, and whiffing the smoke up the capacious
chimney.

There's Jessie, the farmer ; Pynsent, the doctor >

Peter, the sailor; Anna, the  gov wife of the

officer; and Charley  well, you must have some
more schooling, my boy, and then we will see
about you."

I will help Jessie to manage the farm," said
Charley submissively, putting a finishing touch
into the eye of the Captain, whose picture he had
been trying to take for the hundredth time.

(( Very good ! very good ! So now let us have
our rubber," exclaimed the Captain, laying aside
his pipe.

Charley opened a small box that he took down
from a bookshelf, and produced two packs of cards,
which he placed opposite each other on the round
table, and beside each pack four ivory markers.
Aunt Betsey laid aside her knotting, and seated
herself opposite Nelson, whilst the Captain took
a chair placed by Peter, and had Jessie for a vis-a-vis
and partner.

Mind, Jessie," said the Captain, shuffling the
cards, " that you return my lead, and remember
how many trumps are out."

" May I put up your tricks. Captain Burford?"
asked Anna, seating herself by his side.

To be sure, Mrs. Colonel Somebody. Only
remember to shove them together when they are

The game went on.

Three by cards and two by honours said the
Captain putting one marker above two others. ' I
must take a pinch of snuff upon the strength of it'
and he pulled out a large round box with a picture
of Lord Nelson on the cover and took such a
gripe of tempting dust as his big fingers alone
could take.

Why did you trump my best diamond, Nelson
V asked Miss Burton ; '' we lost a trick by
it."

I thought all the others were outs replied
Nelson, " and that my father would overrun me.
So I put down my best trump, and after all found
that he had a diamond."

Six tricks again. Captain Burford," said Anna,
pushing the graduated cards up together.

Oh ! I beg your pardon," exclaimed Jessie, " I
quite thought that the ace was out."

 There, my dear !" cried the Captain impatiently,
" we shall lose the game by that oversight.
How many, Anna ? Two by honours and
two by cards. Five and four are nine. In nine
holes, by Jove ! If you hadn't led your king, we
should have been game, and now I dare say we
shall lose it. Nine never won a game."

I am very sorry, I really will try to play better,"

said Jessie, dealing very steadily, and turning up
a deuce of clubs.

"Good luck under a black deuce said the
Captain. " Confound the cards ! they come from
Beggarsrow, sure enough. Two to one we shall
lose the game ; not a trump in my hand. I give
it up."

I thought, Captain Burford, that whist meant
silence," said Miss Burton, leading the . ace of
trumps, and continuing to play all the honours.
It is really impossible to attend to ones game
if you talk so much," she added, after making
eight tricks without giving her adversaries breathing
time.

I told you so, Jessie : nine never won a game."

Go on. Nelson, now its your turn ; pick em
up. Nine  ten  eleven  twelve, by Jove ! Six
by cards and four by honours. A slam. There,
Jessie ! you lost that game ; I vow I will never
play with you again." And here Captain Burford
got up, fumed about the room, and sat down
again.

"You're wanted, please Miss," said the red-faced
servant, coming in and addressing Jessie.

Pynsent, will you take my hand for a few
minutes ?" said Jessie. " He plays better than I
do, Captain Burford."

Pynsent took the cards, and Jessie went into
the kitchen.

And such a kitchen ! A huge dresser with three
shelves covered with pewter plates, and the rest
with white ware, all shining and clean as the sun on
a sheet of snow. The tall chimney-piece, adorned
with brass and tin candlesticks, also shining. The
prickly dry furze and crisp sticks crackling on the
hearth, and the tea-kettle singing lustily above
them, proclaiming itself ready for Captain Burfords
' toddy . Gammons of bacon, hams, and tongues,
hanging from the wooden raft on the ceiling, and
bread and cheese spread upon the white deal-table.

Jessie found a labourer's wife awaiting her, who
wanted her husband's wages in advance, and medicine
for children ill of the measles. She went upstairs
to her large store-room, and procured the
necessary articles. She returned and satisfied the
poor woman, and promised to visit the children ;
then she went about some household matters with
Dinah, and finally ordered in supper. When she
returned to the hall, she was greeted by the Captain
with 

We've beaten them, Jessie ; double, single,
and the rub  four points. They saved their point
in the first game, thanks to Pynsent, who would
husband his trumps ; but he plays a better game

than you do, because you think of other matters.
We must tell Uncle James that we beat Aunt Betsey
to shivers. I wonder he isn't here : he is afraid
of you Ma'am ; he seldom comes here of an evening

Aunt Betsey blushed and frowned.

Here Charley began to put away the cards, and
Miss Annabella condescended to help Dinah to lay
the cloth. A plain substantial supper was spread,
and a jug of Somersetshire cider, together with a
steaming tea-kettle, appeared.

Let me make the toddy'' said Pynsent. " Give
me the keys to get the rum, Jessie." Jessie gave
the keys, and Pynsent, unlocking another cupboard,
produced a right jolly-looking bottle.

One slice of lemon, two lumps of sugar, a
wine-glass full of rum, and the rest water," said
the Captain.

I know," replied Pynsent, going towards the
tea-kettle, and pouring the last ingredient into the
glass.

swell, Miss Betsey," said Captain Burford
I hope you will all come to my ball tomorrow.
I shall take it as an offence if you do not, as it
will be our last kick-up before Nelson leaves, and
one don't know when he may sail. Heigh ho !
Why wouldn't you be a sailor. Nelson, if you

must go away ? And I named you after the great
Commander, too, on purpose. I hate steering."

I do not much enjoy children's dances," said
Aunt Betsey, " but I shall be happy to avail myself
of your kind invitation on this occasion. '

"And you, Jessie, and the rest'' asked Captain
Bur ford.

Oh ! I think you must excuse me," replied
Jessie, " I must look after the harvest."

Hang the harvest ! you must come to my
ball."

"I cannot dance well enough, and should not
like to disgrace your guardianship," said Jessie,
smiling; "I really am out of my element at a
dance."

Oh, Jessie, how unkind !" said Nelson.

Jessie glanced reproachfully at Nelson, and then
at her half-mourning dress. The youth understood
her, and was silent.

"Aunty will take Anna, and the three boys
can do without me," said Jessie.

Indeed we can't," cried the two younger ones ;
nobody is so good at games as you are : it is
worth a pound to play at blind-man's-buff with
you."

But you will not have blind-man's-buff tomorrow,"
said Jessie; "you must be steady and
quiet, because all the grand people wil be there."

'then I shan't go' said Pynsent, "I hate
grand people'

That's more sincere than polite' said the Captain
" seeing that I consider myself a very grand
person and Aunt Betsey has no mean notion of
her family."

Nos that she hasn't ! " muttered Pynsent.

"Least said, soonest mended. I shall expect
you all' said the Captain. " Mind, Jessie, no excuses!
I should be miserable without your good-natured
face ; and as to Nelson, fie ! for shame !
how could you refuse, and you engaged to him
ever since you were born ? I remember it as if it
was today. Nelson came into the world the 20th
of June, 1815,  year memorable for the battle
of Waterloo  that is why he must go into the
army ; and in the evening of that day I walked
down here to ask why your father hadn't been to
congratulate me, and drink his health. To my
astonishment, I found that you were born the
same day. Old school-fellows  old friends  son
and daughter. We sat down at that identical
round table, and called for the toddy. We drank
one glass to Nelson's health, one glass to your
health, and one to your marriage at some future
day ; and, by George, if we weren't as drunk as
fiddlers ! First time I ever saw your father more
than a little merry, though those were days of

hard drinking. It was then I vowed I would call
my boy Nelson after the great Commander, and
destined him for the navy. Disappointed there.
Your father looked through the old pedigree to
find a grand family name for you. He was divided
between Jessica and Annabella, but I inclined
to the former, because I like the song of
Jessie of Dumblane/ and so it was settled. He
wanted to add ' Pynsent/ on account of that confounded
family of Burton Pynsent, that he said
you belonged to; but I suggested that it was a
boys name, so it was reserved for this younker
here. Ah ! those were happy days, weren't they,
Miss Burton ? Well, and so are these : we have
no reason to complain. Now, Nel, past half after
nine. ' Early to bed  you know the rests

There was a great shaking of hands, and a general
rush to open the door, where the full-faced
harvest-moon looked so magnificent overhead, that
all went out to greet her, and to congratulate one
another on the prospect of a continuance of fine
weather and a good harvest.

And now, patient Reader, you and I will also
emerge from our corner, and, wishing our new
friends good-night, proceed to make some fresh
acquaintances.

CHAPTER II.

A doctor for near half a century,
He lived and laboured for the good of men :
Though called to watch the sick bed of the rich,
And earn the fee for care and 'tendance due,
He never shrank, at all unseemly hours,
From waiting on the poor man's couch of pain,
And living to alleviate the ills
That human nature is foredoom' d to bear."

Whilst you and I, gentle Reader have been
quietly, and, I hope, not quite unprofitably, employed
in the hal at Fairfield, making acquaintance
with a family of orphan children and their
guardians, there has been much anxiety and some
bustle within a few miles of us. Just when our
little party were about to sit down to their' rubber,
Mr. Michelson was pacing impatiently the diningroom
of Michelson Hall. He had just risen from
his solitary dessert, and had left his wine-glass
dry, and his plate unsoiled. One moment he
would go to the window, throw up the sash, and
look out upon the smooth lawn ; the next he would
unclose the door and listen, as if for footsteps ;

then he would return to his fidgety walk and
mutter to himself. He was a tall , handsome man,
of middle age, dressed in black, and rather, as the
French would say, tire a quatre epistles. His
head was just beginning to be bald a little above
the forehead, and his hair, naturally wavy and of a
dark brown, was carefully brushed over the invidious
space of white. His eyes were fine,  too fine,
I would say ; too large, too searching, too bright,
almost too bold; your glance fell beneath them,
you scarcely knew why, not exactly from personal
shame, but from a kind of intuitive shame for him :
they professed to be blue, but verged upon green;
and if, to borrow again from the French tongue,
so rich in figures, le bleu et le vert se jurent, it is
not to be wondered at that they were so restless
and yet so impudent. The nose was un pen re-trouble
 (French again ! but what polite writer of
the present refined age could say "turned-up,"
when speaking of the nose of a gentleman of ten
thousand a year ?) . The lips were red and full, and
concealed, or, more properly, were frequently parted
to reveal, a magnificent set of teeth, as yet un-submitted
to the unkind hand of the dentist. Diamond
studs adorned his shirt, which was defended
by a well-clipped hedge of frills; and his shirt-collar
was as stiff as starch could make it. He

was altogether an uncomfortably good-looking
man.

At last the door opened.

"Well, Stephens , what news?" he said, as a
tall, wary-looking butler entered.

' Miss Rutherford started by the mail for London
this morning at seven, Sir. She had no
luggage whatever. Sir. The Boots particularly
remarked that she had no luggage."

What had the Boots to do with her or her luggage
? the impudent rascal ! " said Mr. Michelson.

Nothing whatever, Sir ; only you told me to
ask."

' Hold your tongue, and answer my questions ! "
said Mr. Michelson, a large vein in his capacious
forehead becoming very prominent as he spoke.
Did Miss Rutherford make known her intention
of leaving to any one ? "

No, Sir. The housemaid said that she heard
her in her room moving about, at between five and
six; but, as she was always an early riser, and
frequently walked before breakfast, she thought
nothing of it."

'did she know whether she was in bed at all
last night ? "

She thought not. Sir ; it was near two o'clock
before she went upstairs."

I suppose I know that since I was with her
up to that hour in the drawing-room. Just answer
my questions and no more. Were the servants
gone to bed when I went to my room last
night ? ''

All but me and Vigars, Sir.

Ah ! Vigars ! He came into the drawing-room
with tea,  then with candles,  then, as
usual, with the keys. Tell me exactly what he
said, when he returned to the kitchen, about Miss
Rutherford. Come, Sir, no evasions ! You are
aware that I will find outs'

Why, Sir, he said nothing particular."

What did he say that was not particular?
Speak at once, and speak truth, or I will dismiss
you."

He only said. Sir, that you and Miss Rutherford
seemed to be having a quarrel, and that he
heard high words as he came through the hall."

Go on : what more ? "

Nothing particular. Sir, that I can remember,
except that Miss Rutherford was too high and
mighty for her situation."

The impudent scoundrel ! What was Miss
Rutherford situation to him? And that was
all?"

"Yes, Sir."

"Well, Stephens, I think you are a faithful
servant enough, as times go, and I will trust to
your discretion so far as to let you try and find
out where Miss Rutherford is, supposing that she
does not come back tomorrow, as I imagine she
will. As companion to my late dear wife "  here
Mr. Michelson heaved a sigh, and glanced at a
mourning-ring  " I always thought it my duty to
treat her with consideration. When Lady Charlotte
died,  how long ago is it nov, Stephens ?"

More than a year. Sir''

When my wife died I felt that Miss Rutherford
had still a claim upon me. Besides, Chatham
was so fond of her that I knew he would be miserable
if she left us ; so, as you know, I offered her
the situation of superintendent of my household,
which she accepted. She was young and inexperienced
; still I believe she did her duty. What
do you think, Stephens ? "

Yes, Sir ; your own daughter could never have
been more careful and particular."

Tush ! Well, of course I am anxious to do
what is right by her. In the first place to find
out where she is gone ; in the second, to let it be
understood that she took offence at something I
said to her concerning the management of the
house; and having, as Vigars justly observed, too

high a spirit for her position in life, left me, without
notice. You understand ? '

Yes, Sir.

' I believe it is well known that I always treated
her as an equal ; and therefore no one can suppose
that she left me on account of any unkindness on
my part."

'' I should think not, Sir." ,

Why do you speak with that tone, as if you
thought I treated her too familiarly ? "

I didn't mean any tone. Sir."

Then done assume a tone. If Miss Rutherford
does not return tomorrow, you must see the
guard of the mail ; find out whether she went all
the way to London; follow her; make inquiries
at the Sun, where the coach stops, and where she
probably will be; see her, and give her a letter
that I will write. I have no doubt you will find
her at once. I know she had money, because I
paid her only the day before yesterday."

"Very well. Sir."

' Let it be understood that I am particularly
anxious to serve her, because my dear wife "  another
glance at the moummg-ring, and a pressure
of the eyes with the hand it ornamented  " recommended
her to my care on her death-bed. Well,
have you nothing to say ? Don't look so surprised."

VOL. I. c

" I didn't mean to look surprised, Sir. Your
orders shall be faithfully attended to, Sir''

And now you may go. See that the servants
do not make Miss Rutherford's sudden departure
an excuse for aspersing her character. I believe
they did not like her."

"Very well, Sir. Most of us liked her, Sir."

Here the butler left the dining-room, and found
his fellow-servant Vigars in the hall, very near the
door. The pair went quietly together into the
butler's pantry.

I never ! " said Vigars, " but you was right to
say what I said ; for he would have poked it out
of Sarah or Martha, and they might have told
more than was convenient in the fright. Poor
ritter ! I don't think she'll ever come back. I
never see such a way as she was in : trembling
With passion, and her eyes streaming with tears,
that she tried to hide when T came in ; and master
in a towering rage ; he was standing close up to
where she sat, and I believe he'd a' struck her, if I
hadn't come in. I heard her say, 1 will leave
you  I will never bear this  I would starve, die,
rather ! ' And when I went in again they were
at it still, only calmer ; and so they went on from
nine o'clock till near two in the morning."

"tis very odd," said Stephens, "but I don't

think my poor mistress ever really liked her, especially
along at the last, though she was as submissive
and attentive as any one could be, and nearly
cried her heart out when she died. There was a
unhappy ooman, Vigars, as Lady Charlotte wus !
You never see any one die of a broken heart, if she
didn't. She could bear to be stinted at home,
whilst she knew that thousands and thousands
were spent in pictures and operas and all kinds of
show. I shouldn't wonder if that wasn't why Miss
Rutherford went away. I know I won't bear it
long longer; and if it wasn't for Master Chatham
sake, I should have left long ago."

We must have a proper housekeeper now,
that's one comfort," said Vigars ; '' our table will
be better served."

Whilst we leave Mr. Michelson and his household
to their various meditations upon the sudden
flight of Miss Rutherford, and allow a few days to
pass, we must travel to London. Arrived there,
we find ourselves compelled, tired as we are, to
traverse several intricate streets, until we reach
a second-rate hotel, situated in one of the many
minor streets leading out of Piccadilly. We enter,
and, ascending the stairs, attain a bedroom, in
which several persons are assembled.

The object of attention to all seems to be a very

c2

young and tiny baby, happily sleeping in a smallclothes
-basket, well wrapped up in flannels. A
gentleman of kindly aspect and middle age, wearing
a brown suit of clothes and a wig, is seated on
a low chair, gazing on the infant, whilst a portly
woman, the landlady of the hotel, stands by his
side wiping her eyes. Another gentleman, and one
or two servant girls, are in different parts of the
room.

I do not know what is to become of the poor
infant, Sir, said the landlady to the gentleman in
brown ; " it do seem such a pity to send it to the
workhouse."

Will you kindly tell me all you know of the
unfortunate mother, Maam?" he asked.

swell, Sir, she came here two days ago, and
asked for a bedroom. She was very handsome
and well-dressed, and I let her have everything
she wanted at once. She looked very unhappy
and ill, but she said nothing to me, and I didnH
like to take the liberty of asking any questions.
She slept here ; and the next morning, early, she
told me to send for a surgeon of the name of
Barnard, as she did not feel quite well. I asked
where you lived. Sir ; but she did not know, so we
looked in the Directory, and found your address.
You know the rest. Sir, better than I do."

All, yes ! poor creature ! She scarcely spoke
before all was over and she was in the agonies of
death. So young ! and to have left this unfortunate
infant as a living legacy to the benevolent ! "

"To the workhouse, I should thinks here interrupted
the other gentleman, who was also a
surgeon.

Poor innocent V said the landlady, " I would
take it, and proud to do it, if I was richer ; but
my good-man grumbles at feeding our own large
family, and would never have a stranger added'

The goodwill does you honour, Maam, said
Mr. Barnard, " and I only wish such a kind heart
could be found to shelter this poor child's

Did the young woman leave any money ? ''
asked Mr. Pilson, the other surgeon.

She gave this purse into my hand, Sirs' said
the landlady, giving a handsome purse to Mr.
Barnard, "just before you came, and told me to
pay you and myself what was right ; I have not
even opened it yet.'

The purse was found to contain between thirty
and forty pounds, in bank-notes, sovereigns, and
silver. The sovereigns were wrapped together ina
piece of torn writing-paper, on which was writing
in a female hand. The sheet had been torn crossways,
so that only broken lines were legible. There

was no single complete sentence. The words " forever
acknowledge me as . . heartbroken
vie . . make your cruel treatment known
return to my mother till . . . .'' was all that was
written together with the signature " Sophia."

' There is not much to be made out of that'
said Mr. Pilson.

No, alas, no ! " said Mr. Barnard, bending
over the child ; " but we must do our best to find
the poor lady's friends, for the sake of this innocent.
We will not send it to the workhouse yet,
Ma'am. We will inquire ; and then  and then 
God knows. Perhaps it may not live, it is so small
and weak."

I will keep it for a week or so. Sir, whilst my
husband is away, but  " said the landlady.

' You need not be alarmed. Ma'am ; I w ill defray
any expenses you may incur till the unfortunate
mystery is cleared up. Poor dead lady ! poor
motherless babe ! "

There must be a magistrate, and an inquest,
and advertisements, and depositions, and all the
rest of it," gasped Mr. Pilson, " and the sooner
the better!"

And so it was. All proper measures where at
once resorted to ; but no intelligence was obtained
of the unfortunate lady, beyond what we already

know. Suspended by a small hair chain from her
neck was a wedding ring, which was found to be
of the same size as a very curious antique cameo
that was taken from the third finger of her left
hand. These, together with her wearing apparel,
were carefully put aside. It was noted down that
she had large dark violet eyes ; an aquiline nose ;
a well-shaped but rather broad mouth; dark
hair braided across a high forehead, and a dark
pale complexion ; that she was tall, and dressed ina
straw bonnet lined and trimmed with pink, a
brown silk dress, and a large black shawl with a
broad Indian border.

She was buried respectably in the churchyard of
St. Jameses, at Mr. Timothy Barnard's request,
who, together with the landlady and one of the
servants, attended the funeral. It cannot be said,
as of some, that she was " unwept' for this worthy
trio shed tears of pity over her grave, and uttered
a prayer for her innocent child.

When all the expenses of her funeral, and
those incurred at the Inn, were paid, her purse,
as may be supposed, was empty ; and there was
the baby  a small, weak, puling, tender-limbed
infant  to be taken to the workhouse.

"Perhaps' said Mr. Timothy Barnard to the
landlady, " we might get her into one of those excellent

institutions for female orphans, if we could
but manage to nurse her a little longer. I have
been a subscriber for many years to one, and have
some interest."

Very likely, Sir' said the good woman, " but
them workhouse people won't pay nothing for
bringing her up out of the workhouse ; and it do
seem a pity to let a lady's child go there."

Mr. Timothy Barnard went home to his house
in Duke-street. He entered the little back room
on the ground-floor, which was his study, and sat
down in his armchair.

"What am I to do?" he said, muttering aloud
to a large bookcase. " Old bachelor, quite unused
to children. But the workhouse ! Poor thing !
poor thing ! And the mother's look at me, and
then at the child. Why did she send for me ? Did
she know me ? They asked that at the inquest,
and no wonder. And I promised to educate one
of my nieces too. At my age to have to deal with
two female children ! Old fool ! I'm always putting
my foot in it. And why not the workhouse ?
She would never be the wiser, and just as happy, I
dare say, if unconscious. But what have I to do
with my money better than to help the orphan ?
Hasn't the great Father of the fatherless put her
II my way ? Doesn't he say to me, ' You have no

children, adopt one of mine? Did the Saviour
send' them to the workhouse when they came to
Him? Oh, Timothy, Timothy! what did the
Apostle Paul say to thy namesake long ago, snow
the end of the commandment is charity, out of a
pure heart and of a good consciences

Here Mr. Timothy Barnard paused in his conversation
with the bookshelf; rose from his chair,
and approached it ; opened one of the glass doors,
and took down a large Bible; re-seated himself,
and turned to the Epistles to Timothy : in the
first chapter of the first Epistle he found the words
he had quoted. He read the chapter through, still
aloud, as if to the furniture ; then closing the sacred
volume, covered his face with his hands, and was
silent awhile.

"Very well, I will do it, please God," he said,
rising again from his chair, rubbing his hands, and
finally depositing them in the tails of his coat. He
walked about the room with a pleased smile on his
countenance, and whistled a tune of long ago, that
he must have learnt in a Somersetshire hatfield.
He suddenly caught sight of some letters that lay
unopened upon the table, and came to an anchor before
them. He opened one; the word "Appeals
was printed at the top. " Not now," he murmured,
female orphan first." He broke the seal of 

3

other : ' Dear me ! there's Widow Eveleigh thanking
me again, as if half an hour's advice and five
pennyworth of drugs were worth so much gratitude.
A third, ' With Lady Singleton compliments and
best thanks' accompanied by a cheque for fifty
pounds. " That will just do for her first year of
babyhood' said he, putting the cheque and note
into his desk. A fourth  this was rather a long
letter, neatly written. He hemmed, as if to clear
his voice for the benefit of the bookshelf, and read
as follows : 

'' Fairfield, August 23.

My dear Uncle Timothy,

' As my aunt is not very well, she has requested
me to answer your kind letter. We are all very
much obliged to you for your generous offer of
providing for one of us two girls. As I am now
seventeen, and greatly wanted at home, to see to
the farm and the younger children, I cannot avail
myself of it ; but my sister Annabella, who is only
ten, Avill be very glad to do so. She will be ready
by Christmas, or any time you may think proper.
Indeed, my dear Uncle, we are very grateful to
you ; and Captain Burford, who met you at Fairfield,
when you came there to pay the wedding
visit, desires me to say, with his best respects, that

it is just what he expected from you. I wish you
would come to Fairfield again. Although we have
never seen you, I assure you we should give you
a hearty welcome. As I am the eldest, my dear
mother used to talk to me a great deal about you,
and taught me to love you very much. I hope,
please God, we shall get on very well. Everybody
is very kind to us. Our good doctor has offered to
take Pynsent as his apprentice, for nothing ; so
he is, so far, provided for. Captain Burford thinks
he can get Peter into the navy soon, and Charles
says he will stay at home and be a farmer; he
is very clever, indeed, at almost everything. You
see how God keeps his promise to ' the fatherless
The crops are very good this year, and we are all
strong and healthy, except perhaps Charley  he
is not so strong as the rest of us. I hope you
will excuse this long letter, and that you will write
to us sometimes. Aunt Betsey desires her best
compliments, and my brothers and sister smite
with me in love and gratitude.

I remain, my dear Uncle,

Your affectionate and dutiful niece,
Jessie Burton."

The good doctor wiped his eyes ; then he looked
over the letter again, and commented upon it.

'' Very pretty letter ! Nice, natural little girl,
I am sure. Good sort of fellow, that Captain
Burford. ' My dear mother  blessed angel ! If
she hadnH married that proud, weak man, she
would have been happier : she was too plain and
humble-minded for him. Dear sister ! I wish I
had seen her once more. No use repining. Poor
children ! all in a fair way of getting on ' in the
world. Aunt Betsey indeed !  prouder than her
brother, and weaker : thinking of nothing but her
beauty. That won carry her to heaven, or go
with her to the graves'

Mr. Timothy Barnard rang the bell. An elderly
woman appeared.

Tell John to bring the carriages he said.

' The carriage have been at the door more than
an hour. Sir. We was beginning to be afraid some-think
was the matters  replied the housekeeper.

Bless me ! I quite forgot myself. All my patients
waiting 1 Give me my hat, Mrs. Hicks, and
cane, and gloves. Dinner at seven : good morning."


Mr. Barnard drove to see a great many patients,
in a comfortable carriage and pair. During his
drive his thoughts were occupied by his orphans,
and he occasionally communicated them to the
carriage or the coachman's back, to which both

were well accustomed, and of which they took
about equal notice. After having passed through
most of the fashionable streets of St. Jameses, and
stopped every five or ten minutes at different doors
in that locality, to feel pulses, examine tongues,
hear complaints, and write prescriptions, he called
out to the coachman 

"Peckham, John."

Very good. Sir," was the reply ; and to Peck-ham
they drove.

The carriage drew up before a small, neat house,
with a twelve-foot-square flower-garden in front,
situated at the end of a small row of buildings,
in a broad, airy road. After London, it looked
quite a country scene. There was actually a cockcrowing
somewhere behind the houses, and two or
three dusty birds were chirping on the railings
that surrounded them. A mistaken butterfly was
disputing the possession of a brown plant of mignonette
with a deluded bee, and something very
like trees was visible in the distance.

The doctor walked up the little garden, and was
met at the door by a neat, almost ladylike-looking
woman, in widow's weeds.

"How do you do, Mrs. Eveleigh?" he said,
holding out his hand kindly.

I am so glad to see you. Sir ! how kind of you

to come !" said Mrs. Eveleigh, leading the way into
a neat room, the walls of which were covered with
portraits of every size and sort.

Not kind, my dear Madame replied Mr. Barnard
; " my visit is selfish : you have not yet begun
the little school we talked of, and I wished to ask
you whether you would like to take charge of a
motherless infant instead. 

Oh yes, Sir ! ever since I lost my own baby,
I have wished to have one to nurse. Besides, it
would be an object. Sir, and help to fill up the
great void which his death has left in my hearts

The widows eyes filled with tears.

"Just so! just so! said Mr. Barnard hastily.
"It is right that you should know the child's
history, though we will keep it secret from the
world'' And he began to relate the sad tale that
the reader already knows.

I feel that I can trust you, Mrs. Eveleigh,
because you have a kind heart. We shall not
quarrel about money matters. By the bye, you
will want some money in advance. You may be
able to go on with your fancy work, or whatever
it is, at odd times ; and so, with God's blessing
make a living of it."

The worthy doctor put a ten-pound note into the
widow's hand.

God will bless you. Sir, I am sure," she said.
' He told me. Sir, that if you would choose any of
his best pictures, as a small token of gratitude, and
in remembrance of him  "

Another time, Mrs. Eveleigh, another time.
I should like to see the child about once a month,
sometimes here, and sometimes at my own house ;
and if it is ill, send for me directly. The nurse
shall bring her to you tomorrow. Take care of
yourself. How is the poor man next-door? I
must just look in upon him. Keep up your spirits,
and try to submit to the will of God in all things.
I believe your poor husband is in heaven, and that
ought to be comfort enough for us. Good bye."

Good bye. Sir, and may the Lord bless and
preserve you ! " said the poor widow, returning to
her solitary apartment, and gazing abstractedly
upon the portrait of her husband, who, a clever
but unknown artist, had died of consumption about
a month before, and over whose protracted sufferings
Mr. Timothy Barnard had watched with
the tenderness of a parent and the skill of an accomplished
surgeon.

CHAPTER III.

Ah, Beauty ! of all things on earth,
How many thy charms most desire !
Yet beauty with youth has its birth,
And beauty with youth must expire."

Charles Wolfe.

Jessie and Pynsent kept their resolution of remaining
at home on the evening of Captain Bedford's
juvenile ball. They started their aunt and
the three younger children in the covered car that
they kept for journeying and jaunting, and wished
them a merry evening. Miss Burton looked magnificent,
and very handsome in her black satin
gown, jet ornaments, and black velvet turban and
feathers. Jessie declared to Pynsent, when she
was gone, that she certainly was the finest woman
in the world, and that she did not wonder at her
being still a little vain of her beauty.

She certainly is beautiful," said Pynsent earnestly,
" and Anna is just like her ; like poor Papa
too, who was the handsomest man I ever saw,
morels the pity."

Why  morels the pity Pynsent ?"

Because the pride of family and of beauty has
been the ruin of us all ; so Captain Burford says,
and I believe \i" answered Pynsent.

Aunt Betsey might have been well married fifty
times, so Captain Burford told me, if she hadn't
fixed her mind on Mr. Michelson, who admired
her, but chose to marry a title," said Jessie.

I suspect'' said Pynsent smiling, "that she
thinks she shall meet Mr. Michelson tonight. The
truth was, that he jilted her, and so made Papa very
bitter against him by so doing. By the bye, have
you heard that Miss Rutherford is gone from the
Hall ?"

' Yes, I am so sorry : I quite liked her; she was
very much to be pitied, having no friends. But,
Pynsent, we must not lose our quiet evening here j
let us go into the cornfields, and look after the
men."

The brother and sister walked away arm-in-arm.
They crossed a newly-mown meadow, with grass as
smooth and bright as green velvet. The sun cast
his evening rays upon it, and made it shine like
gold. The hedges on all sides were covered with
wild roses, honeysuckle, and old-man's-beard ; and
a pleasant perfume filled the air. The next field
was the cornfield, where men, women, and children

were world lustily. Here the women were binding
the golden treasure with the strong straw wisp,
there the men were forming the sheaves into shocks,
and everywhere the children were filling their arms
and aprons with the stray ears, their own little
store. Smiles and curtseys welcomed the young
master and mistress, who were soon as busily at
work as the rest, helping one to bind a sheaf, or
another to shape the shock.

Pleasantly there rose a harvest song on the
evening air, as the labourers prepared to return to
their homes, having finished their dayes work, and
left the field in stacks, ready for carrying. Pleasant
the flushed face and cheerful smile of Jessie, as
she returns their nods and curtseys, and seats herself
by her brother's side ; and still more pleasant
her clear sweet voice, as it rises, as if of its own
accord, to join the song of the harvesters. You do
not need the beauty of your little sister, sweet
Jessie; cheerfulness and good-humour, and a certain
natural dignity of bearing, the fruit of an
honest mind, are more charming, after all, than
regular features and a symmetrical shape, Ashen
consciousness of beauty dwells with them.

Now, Jessie, you must stop singing, and talk
to me'' said Pynsent, putting his arm affectionately
round his sister's waist. " Do you know

that I 'think a great deal of what Papa said about
never selling Fairfield. I should be very sorry to
sell the dear old place, and these pretty fields , and
all that we have been used to so long."

We can never sell it, Pynsent," said Jessie.

' Then we must work hard to pay off the mortgages
which Papa and his forefathers raised from
time to time, rather than sell a portion of the
estate to clear it. I am determined this shall bethe
end for which I will strive."

But," said Jessie, " the great drawback is
having to pay more than a hundred a year interest,
before we can lay by to clear ofi* the principal."

'' Small beginnings produce great endings, Jessie.
It is so in all the biographies of great men."

Jessie smiled.

' Another drawback," said Pynsent, " is Aunt
Betsey s fifty pounds a year : that has to be
raised also, before we can begin to reckon our own
income, and the best years, the estate doesn't
produce more than three hundred and fifty."

A thought has struck me," said Jessie : '' jou
know Aunt Betsey never used to pay anything for
her board as long as Papa lived; but now she insists
on gig us twenty pounds a year. Suppose we
make a point of putting by that twenty pounds,
which is clear gain to us, as a beginning."

Capital V' said Pynsent; "then we may be able
to screw five pounds here and there besides, when
the children are provided for, as there will not
be so much expense at home. The worst of it is,
that it seems so long before I shall begin to work :
four or five good years  what an age !"

After all/ said Jessie thoughtfully, " I almost
agree with Captain Burford in thinking that it
would have been best to sell the estate, and invest
the money that remains profitably ; I mean, after
the mortgage is paid ofi", and a sufficiency reserved
for our education, and giving you boys a fair start
in life."

Very little would remain to us, I fear," said
Pynsent, " after all that was done ; besides. Papa's
last wish should be as binding as if it was his last
will :  by no means to sell the estate, and never tolet
an acre of it fall into Mr. Michelsons hands.
What I should like would be to get very rich, 
which I shall do, of course,  and then buy the
whole estate of you four : you could come and keep
house for me; Anna will be sure to marry, and
the boys will be better provided for."

' You are ' romancing' now, I think. Master
Pynsent. But why am I not to marry?"

I don't think you will ever marry ; you know
the Burtonss have always been old maids. And that

reminds me of Captain Burford's folly about you
and Nelson; I hope yon done think of it , Jessie.
Nelson will be sure to rise in the army he is so
steady and he will either marry some beauty oran
heiress, take my word for it.

How absurd you are, Pynsent !" said Jessie,
colouring; "you talk of Nelson s marrying, at
seventeen, as if he were thirty."

Because Captain Burford talks about it and
thinks about it," said Pynsent bluntly, " and it
may make you very uncomfortable some one of
these days."

A silence ensued, during which Jessie looked
unusually thoughtful.

You are quite right, Pynsent," she said at last.
Now we had better go home, as the dews are
falling, and I have a great deal to do. We must
remember that our great object is to do all we can
for the good of the younger ones ; and in the first
place, to pay off the mortgages by degrees,  say a
hundred pounds at a time. Oh dear me ! it would
take one four or five years at least to save one
hundred, and more than a century to save two
thousand. What old people we should be !" Jessie
laughed heartily at the picture that presented itself
to her imagination, of Pynsent and herself, an
old bachelor and old maid, of nearly a hundred

years old, living together in the place of their
birth.

Nil desperado is my motto' said Pynsent.

'' Crest, a pill-box; coat-of-arms, three bottles
rampant, and a case of surgical instruments couchant
?" asked Jessie.

When Jessie was quietly seated at her work,
and Pynsent was regaling her ears with some
medical case he was reading, Captain Burford's juvenile
ball was at its climax. The whole youthful
respectability of the town and neighbourhood had
assembled, and many of the elders with them, and
were amusing themselves alternately with dancing
and games, until the old house rang with music
and merriment. Annabella was, as had been predicted,
the beauty of the ball-room ; and it was
ridiculous to see her surrounded by her throng of
little admirers, one saying, '' Now, Anna, dance
with me f another, " You promised to dance with
me next, you know you did f a third, " Very well,
Miss, I won ask you against and so on ; whilst the
young lady seemed to enjoy it just as much as if
she were sweet seventeen, and boasted an elegant
tablets, on which the names of a score of partners
were regularly inscribed.

Anna was a sparkling little beauty, that fascinated
at first sight. Black eyes, as bright and piercing

as an eagle's ; black hair falling in long ringlets
down lier shoulders ; a clear brown complexion and
a colour like " the red red rose ;" lips really like
the " double cherry full and pouting ; the nose
slightly aquiline but small and delicate : she was
a perfect little gipsy,, and it was as impossible to
see her and not to spoil hers as it would be not to
admire her. She was perfectly conscious of all this,
and as consummate a little coquette as you cotdd
light upon. She almost knew already when to kill
a tiny lover by a sudden shot from under the long
black eyelashes, and how to hold him in thrall by
her naughty flirting ways. Truly, if "the child
is father of the man' "the girl is mother of the
woman ;" and, if we read aright, without the severe
castigation of suffering and sorrow, Annabella
Burton will be ruined by vanity and admiration 
her beauty will be her curse.

The Captain had arranged whist-tables in another
room, whither most of the papas and mammas
had retired; but a little before supper they came
by degrees into the dancing-room. The children
were in the heart of an old dance called " the Sighing
Dance," which was occasioning much anxiety
and amusement. A little beau knelt before his
chosen belle, sighed, and then whirled her round
the room, and finally danced himself into her chair.

leaving her to kneel, in her turn, before some other
swain, and perform a similar movement with him.
Anna had, as usual, more than her share of sigh-
ers, and was standing amongst a group of girls of
all ages, flushed and fluttering with excitement,
waiting to see whom Chatham Michelson would
choose, whose turn it was to kneel. Just at tlje
moment, Mr. Michelson entered the room. Nelson
rushed up to him, and said, " Now Mr. Michelson,
you must sigh for some one : kneel down here
and choose ;" and he led him in front of the little
expectant group. What a beating of young hearts
at that moment ! Whom would the great man select?


Mr. Michelson knelt on one knee good humoured
; put his hand on his heart theatrically ;
looked searchingly upon the many sweet faces before
him, gave a long-drawn sigh, and presented
his hand to Anna. The child tripped away with him,
and danced him to his seat, to the amusement of
the by-sanders, then stood glancing archly round,
as if to see whom she should choose.

Sigh for me, Anna," whispered a little boy.

No, for me," said another ; " I haven't been
out a long time."

For me," said Chatham Michelson.

Anna shook her curls, pointed her toes, and

danced up to Mr. Michelson knelt down, sighed,
and was soon whirling that gentleman round, with
a view to retiring amongst the children. But when
they had completed their turn, he took her up in
his arms and kissed her. Anna was indignant, and
struggled to free herself, upon which he sat down
and placed her on his knee.

What is your name, little beauty V he said,
as she resolutely got off his knee, and was about to
run away. " Come here ; I won't kiss you anymore,
upon my word I wonH.'

Annabella Burton' she replied.

"I thought so," said Mr. Michelson, whilst a
shade half of admiration, half of dislike, passed over
his face. 'Is that tall lady yonder your aunt ?"

Yes," said Anna, " I thought you knew her ;
she knows you very well."

Anna glanced at her tall, magnificent aunt, who
was watching them with an attention so intense
that she seemed scarcely to breathe.

Do you think she would dance with me ?"
asked Mr. Michelson.

I dare say she would," said Anna : " I will run
and ask her ;" and off she flew, without waiting
for further permission.

Captain Burford and Nelson were forming the
last country dance, in which old and young were to

VOL. I. D

join ; and Aunt Betsey was debating with herself
whether she would dance or not.

Mr. Michelson wants to know whether yon will
dance with him/ said Anna abruptly.

A blaze of colour flushed through the soupcon of
rouge that Aunt Betsey had rubbed in, and proved
that she was not too old to blush.

Decidedly not/ she replied promptly.

' Not with Mr. Michelson T' asked Anna, astonished.
" I am sure you will, Aunty ; I will bring
him.

And off she tripped again, begged Mr. Michelson
to make haste, or she should not have a partner,
led him across the room, and planted him before
her aunt.

T know you will, Aunty," she said coaxingly.

May I have the honour ?" said Mr. Michelson.
He looked at Miss Burton, she was pale as death :
he had looked upon the past as past, she had not.
He was slightly taken aback. The music struck
Lip  he offered his arm. Scarcely knowing what
she did, she accepted it, and he led her to the bottom
of the dance.

Twenty years had elapsed since Miss Burton and
Mr. Michelson had met. At that time they were
as much in love with one another as their natures
would let them. They were not exactly engaged,

but everybody supposed they would marry , because
the gentleman was bis o\vn master and the lady a
reigning beauty the toast of the country. He had
money, she had none ; but then her family, though
decayed, was better than his. His father had won
his wealth in trade, and had built Michelson Hall,
given his son a first-rate education, and died just ashe
was one-and-twenty. Miss Burton was a few
years older than he was, and in all the full rich
beauty of five-and-twenty. He left her, without
absolutely proposing to her, to travel ; and being
of a nature to devote himself to the last thing or
person that attracted his attention by personal
beauty, soon forgot her in his devotion to other
objects. Beauty, whether in nature or art, was
his bane. The last lovely woman  fine picture 
wel-modelled statue  curiously wrought jewel  it
mattered not what, that struck upon his acute
sense of what was graceful and pleasing to the eye,
fixed his thoughts to intensity, until some new
object presented itself to replace the last, and be
again replaced. His eye, and not his mind, was attracted.
He could appreciate nothing justly that
was not visible, and at a glance presented to him as
beautiful. It was, therefore, no wonder that he
soon forgot Miss Burton. He roamed the world
in search of variety and amusement several years,

d2

unwERsn Of '

during which period he never visited Michelson
Hall. In Italy he met Lady Charlotte Lexington
, a beautiful but portionless flower of the aristocracy.
Her rank tempted him to propose for hers
and he was accepted. Probably, during all these
years, he scarcely gave a thought to Miss Burton,
nor did he imagine that she could think much of
him. She, however, ambitious of worldly position
and trusting to her personal appearance, refused
many excellent offers, under the impression that
when he returned home he would renew his attentions
and marry her. When she heard that he
was actually married, her pride was wounded to the
quick. To show the world that she did not sie,
she determined to accept the first proposal that was
made her. An elderly gentleman of some wealth,
a widower and a confirmed invalid, came forward ;
she accepted him. The death of his sister caused
a delay, and his own death, finally, prevented the
marriage. These circumstances told sad tales upon
Miss Burton s beauty ; and having no more valuable
mental attractions to help out her decaying
charms, she received no more proposals. Mr. Michelson
soon tired of Lady Charlotte, and neglected
her. He became a great amateur in pictures,
and connoisseur in operas and ballets, not to mention
a persevering admirer of the " Belle of the

season' As he had always a certain power over
women  partly from his fascinating manners, partly
from his undaunted boldness  he managed to
make a great many of the sex uncomfortable, and
his own wife miserable. From London to the
Continent, and from the Continent to London,
he was constantly on the move, and seldom visited
his place in Somersetshire for more than a few
weeks at a time. A few months after his wife's
death, in Italy, he had come to Michelson Hall,
accompanied by her former companion, a Miss Rutherford,
a very handsome girl, who held the dubious
post of superintendent of his household, and
who had been recommended to Lady Charlotte
during their residence abroad. His son, a boy of
about fifteen, was also at home ; he was destined for
the army.

After Lady Charlotte's death, the neighbours
called on Mr. Michelson, who appeared to be in
great grief. Amongst them was Captain Burford,
his old schoolfellow and quondam friend. His
son Chatham took a fancy to Captain Burford
and Nelson, and they were a good deal together.
It may be well to say that the name Chatham was
derived from the Earl of Chatham, who had been
the godfather of Mr. Michelson, and whose property
of Burton Pynsent adjoined that of Michelson

Hall. The name descended to his grandson,
who knew enough of history to be proud of it.
This property of Burton Pynsent had been a sad
stitch in the side of the late Mr. Burton, of Fairfield,
who always imagined that it was, of right,
his, and that the Earl of Chatham was an interloper,
because a remote branch of his family, Sir
William Pynsent, had left it to the Earl.

Mr. Michelson and Miss Burton now met for
the first time since their young days. They stood
opposite one another in the country dance, but
neither spoke a word. Miss Burtons resolute
pride and splendid stiffness  for splendid it really
was  awed even Mr. Michelson. She sailed through
the dance with him majestically, giving him the
tips of her fingers to hold ; sailed to her seat when
it was concluded, just touching his arm; seated
herself, with an imperial bow, and left him to his
thoughts,  not his thoughts, properly to speak, but
to his eyesight. And still she was shortly after
thinking of the possibility of becoming Mrs. Michelson,
of Michelson Hall ; whilst he considered
her really a very handsome woman, with a carriage
quite to be admired for its stateliness and grace.

When the party was breaking up he again got
hold of Anna, and gazed upon her childish beauty
with admiration.

Captain Burford came up, and, giving Anna a
tap on her head, said he was sure she was tired
now.

'' Oh no. Captain Burford, I could dance two
or three hours mores said the child.

Tell Jessie I am very angry with her," said
the Captain : " she might have come, and Present
too. Tell her, we won't come to the harvest-home."


Oh, you mustn't be angry with them," said
Anna, throwing her arms round the Captain and
looking up into his face, '' and you must come to
the harvest-home : we shall have no fun without
you. Will you come to our harvest-home ? " she
added, turning to Mr. Michelson.

Mr. Michelson smiled, and said he should be
very happy, but he had no invitation.

 Captain Burford will invite you,  won you.
Captain Burford? and Aunty; and so would
Jessie and Pysent, if they were here. Aunty,
will you invite Mr. Michelson to our harvest-home?"


Miss Burton was coming, cloaked and shawled,
to fetch Anna, when ' she was thus suddenly taken
aback. She bowed grandly, muttered  Very
happy," and sailed on, beckoning to Anna to follow
her.

Captain Burford assisted Miss Burton into the
car, and Mr. Michelson put Anna in after her,
inflicting another insult on her dignity by another
kiss. The boys were soon seated, and the little
party again jogged homewards, all more or less
flattered by Mr. Michelsons attention.

The harvest-home took place two or three days
afterwards. All the children, except Pynsent,
were in the wheat-field the greater part of the day,
and Nelson was with them. Towards evening
Captain Burford and Pynsent arrived, and succeeded
in bringing Miss Burton to the field.
Jessie was here, there, and everywhere, with Nelson
pretty generally by her side : now going to
the house, to superintend the drawing of cider ;
now in the field, encouraging the labourers ; anon
accompanying the teeming waggon to the wheat -
mow, patting the honest horses as she went
along.

The last waggon-load was on its way homeward,
and the little gleaners were busily picking
up the scattered ears of corn that it had left behind,
when Mr. Michelson, accompanied by a dog,
made his appearance through the gate at the further
end of the field. Anna spied him first, and
ran towards him.

Oh, I am so glad you are come ! " she exclaimed

; " we shall be going to supper directly,
and shall have such fun !"

But I am not looking for suppers he replied ;
I have been beating up partridges, against the
1st of September, Will you let me shoot over
your farm ? "

The little maiden drew herself up.

"We done call it a farm, but an estate," she
said.

Mr. Michelson smiled, and walked towards Captain
Burford, who came to meet him.

"Are you really come to the harvest-home?"
asked the Captain doubtfully.

No, I am simply come for a walks '

Here Jessie appeared, with her apron full of
wheat-ears, and her bonnet adorned with cornflowers,
and wreathed with wild convolvulus by
the boys.

"Captain Burford, make haste!" she cried;
then suddenly perceiving a stranger, she was about
to turn away, when the Captain beckoned to her,
and she went to him.

"Miss Burton, my Nelsonss little wife, Mr.
Michelson," said he proudly, as he took the blushing
iii by the hand, and presented her in form.

I told you Mr. Michelson would come, Jessie,"
said Anna triumphantly.

D 3

Jessie had a prejudice against Mr. Michelson,
and bent for her , very stiffly ; but when that gentleman
offered his hand, and hoped they should
be better acquainted, she yielded hers, with a virtuous
effort to shake off ill-feeling.

The boys appeared, calling lustily for Jessie.
She curtseyed to Mr. Michelson, and walked away,
followed by him and the Captain. She passed her
aunt, who was sailing on with dignity.

"You cannot do less than ask Mr. Michelson
in, Jessie, said she.

Jessie opened her eyes with astonishment.
"You need not stare so, my dear; it is mere
civility : we used to be acquainted'

Papa did not like him, and was not in a position
to visit him'' said Jessie simply.

Years ago, my dear. Besides, common hospitality
"

The gentlemen came up. Mr. Michelson took
off his hat grandly ; Miss Burton curtseyed grandly.
It was a treat to see them ; and Jessie looked
at her wheat-ears, to hide her laughter.

They all walked on together until they came
to the door of the house. Mr. Michelson professed
to be taking leave. Miss Burton looked at
Jessie.

Will you walk in, Sir? " said she timidly.

"Oh, do come in/ echoed Anna, who held
Mr. Michelsons hand.

Mr. Michelson said, "Thank you' and entered,
very much to Aunt Betsey's satisfaction.

Jessie ! Jessie ! " screamed Pynsent, " where are
youaU?''

Here," said Jessie, opening the door.

Well, come along ; they are all waiting''

Pynsent started at seeing a stranger.

This is Pynsent, the eldest son," said Captain
Burford. " Pynsent, Mr. Michelson."

Pynsent bowed.

About the age of Chatham," said Mr. Michelson
; " strange that their names should have a
certain connection. I believe you belong to the
Pynsent family ? "

In the seventieth generation," said Pynsent.

"We are decidedly the remaining branch of it,"
said Aunt Betsey proudly.

Will you come and see them at supper. Captain
Burford?" said Pynsent.

After a few complimentary speeches they all
went into the kitchen, where the labourers and
their wives and children were seated at the huge
table, on which was placed a plentiful supper of
good homely food. Jessie, and the rest of the
young ones, were soon employed in helping their

guests whilst Captain Burford cracked jokes and
drank cider with them all by turns. Mr. Michelson
tallied to Miss Burton and looked at Jessie,
\\\o, although not handsome, had such a winning
smile and bright complexion, that he must, perforce,
admire her. There was an occasional expression
of anxiety in his countenance, that Jessie,
who was a reader of character, noticed. Perhaps,
in spite of other scenes and new people, he was
thinking of Miss Rutherford, whose sudden departure
was still unaccounted for. Jessie once ventured
to ask if she had left him, adding, that she
knew her slightly; but the forbidding look that
accompanied the "It is not quite settled yet,'
prevented any further question.

Uncle James ! Uncle James ! " shouted Annabella,
as a portly man entered the kitchen, and,
just glancing round, retreated as suddenly as he
had appeared.

All the children were after him, and in a few
moments hanging about him in the hall. All
their entreaties could not induce him to return
with them.

I only looked in, my dearies, for a minute. I
am tired to death. T have been harvesting all day,
and just came to see what you were all about ; my
horse is waiting at the door."

YoTi must stop, Uncle. You never come now ;
you don't care for us. Only this once, Uncle, to
please us ; '' and such like appeals were made in
vain  Uncle James was soon in his saddle again.

I will come soon, my loves, and stay a longtime.
Good bye ; drink my health, mind'' and
away he trotted.

"I am sure he saw Mr. Michelson and Aunt
Betsey together' whispered Jessie to Pynsent,
' and so went away."

"There is one thing I am determined upon,
and that is, I will never fall in love," said Present.


You are wanted to lead the ' Harvest Home,'
Jessie," said Peter, interrupting his brother and
sister.

A great many songs had been sung, and a variety
of toasts given, amongst the jolly party of
labourers. Captain Burford fancied they had had
enough of the strong " Somerset," and accordingly
looked at his watch.

Here you are, Jessie. Now for the song ! " he
said, as she re-entered the kitchen.

She began the following harvest song, in the
chorus to which everybody present joined ; indeed
most of the voices were heard in the song itself.
The old kitchen echoed with the sounds, and the

hams and flitches in the raft shook with the beating
of time, so vigorously executed by the more
musical of the party.

Harvest HOME.


Heap, boys, reap ! and let the sharpen'd sickle

Cut down cheerily the full-ear'd grain ;

'Ware dark clouds  the weather it is fickle :

Heap, boys, reap, and let's forestal the rain :

Then shall we

gallantly

Earn our Harvest Home.

Work, boys, work ! and bind the golden treasure

Quickly up into the teeming sheaves ;
Ease the shocks ! we all shall feel the pleasure
That hard labouring behind it leaves ;
Then shall we
Worthily
Earn our Harvest Home.

Load, boys, load ! and fill the roomy waggon,

Then drive carefully the patient team ;

Help, all hands, and let's forego the flagon

Till old Sol withdraws his latest beam ;

So shall wo

Steadily

Earn our Harvest Home.

Drink, boys, drink ! our labour it is ended ;
Blow, ye winds, and fall, ye rain and hail.
Drink, boys, drmk ! our treasm'c is defended,
Ready now for winnow and for flail ;
Thus have we
Honestly
Earn'd om Harvest Home.

CHAPTER IV.

Nay, shrink not from the word ' farewell,'
As if 'twere friendship's final knell ;

Such fears may prove but vain :
So changeful is life's fleeting days
Whene'er we sever, hope may say

'We part to meet again.' "  Baeto]S".

In the course of a few months the happy family
at Fairfield was scattered, and several of its members
tm-ned adrift upon the wide, wild ocean of
life, to begin their nautical education, and learn,
as best they might, how to battle with the elements,
and guide their ship to the various ports
at which she was destined to stop doing her
course, supposing she was not wrecked at her
outset.

The party who met together to laugh at the
jovial uproar of a Harvest Home, were, by the
following New Yearns Day, reduced to one-half.
Mr. Michelson was the first to take his departure
from the country. All the butlers inquiries
after Miss Rutherford proved unavailing ; and Mr.

Michelson went to London, and thence abroad, in
less than a month after her sudden departure, for
what purpose nobody but himself knew. He had
called once or twice at Fairfield, and managed to
revive all Miss Burton s ancient ambitious hopes.
Laugh not, ye youthful belles, at poor Aunt
Betsey, who, on the very shady side of forty, has
been getting up her old taste for flirtation, her old
beauty, and her old affection, at sight of her old
lover. It is melancholy to see life so wasted ; and
still more melancholy to know that the still fascinating
lover is only amusing himself with her
weakness and laughing at her folly; but he departed,
and again left behind him the heart-burnings
and sickness of hope that he had left years
agone. Oh, ye youthful belles, pity, but do not
laugh at Aunt Betsey ; and above all, lay in such
a store of mental riches yourselves during the
years of your grace and loveliness, that you may
have what she has not when your charms fade  a
well cultivated and religious mind.

Nelson was the next to leave. With various
hopes and fears, aspirations and regrets, he bade
farewell to his native town and native country.
His father kept a brave face at the parting, but
was sad at heart. Ten years in Lydia! Before
his boy returned from his long self-exile, he might

be in his grave. Nelson too, began to realize
that melancholy truth when it was too late, and
his courage sank when he thought of it. The
land of his dreams  the glory of his dreams 
the fame of his dreams  all melted into night-vapours
before the waking sense of a ten years'
separation from those he loved. Poor Jessie,
too,  she did not hide her tears, but let them
fall on her sister's face when she nestled upto
her, and tried to comfort her, sobbing her
own child-heart out in her attempts at consolation.
They all loved and esteemed the quiet,
straightforward, resolute Nelson ; as boys and
girls always esteem those who, whilst they attend
to their studies, still prove themselves bold and
gallant. The sailor and the soldier were mingled
in his nature, and we are mistaken if he does not
prove himself as brave an officer in the Indian
army as his father did in the Indian navy. Jessie
had worked him a purse, into which Anna had put
her only crooked sixpence for luck, which he was
never to take out of the purse if he were ever so
poor. He had begged a tress of Jessie's bright
golden hair, and promised her a tiger's skin in
return for it; at which she shuddered, and entreated
him not to run into danger. Very natural
and very affecting were the little boy and girl

tokens of friendship exchanged between the pair ;
and Captain Burford was pleased to see that the
prospect of separation warmed what he called his
sons " north-masters" meaning his feelings, " into
a more south-westerly breeze."

Captain Burford s last present to his son was
the Holy Bible, in which he had written the words,
'' Fight the good fight of faith."

Read it, boy, and never be ashamed of it," he
said solemnly ; '' I have weathered many a storm,
and been on strange waters, but have always found
that book my surest compass."

And so Nelson departed.

Peter was the next to leave the house of his
birth, and to brave the dangers of the ocean. He
went as midshipman in a gallant ship, under a
gallant commander, and was too brave to shed a
tear; albeit he made many wry faces to restrain
it. Everybody missed the merry, joyous Peter,
and none so much as his twin-sister Anna. But
her turn came next.

Her sister had been hard at work for her ever
since the arrival of their Uncle Timothy's letter ;
and perhaps the necessity of exertion had been the
best cure for the sorrow she felt at her friend Nelson's
departure. How to make smart new frocks
out of their poor Mamma's dresses, now for the

first time brought to light ; how to cut and contrive
pieces of muslin and calico to the best advantage,
and to direct the young workwoman todo
the same, was an addition to Jessicass daily-tasks,
which filled up the small leisure she might
have found for wondering whether Nelson would
think of her when absent. Moreover Anna was
so wild and wilful, that her loving heart mourned
when she considered that the discipline of a school
was not, perhaps, the best kind of training for her ;
and she spent many a stray half-hour in talking
tenderly to the child, and praying her to be good.

Captain Burford took his little ward to London.
They had a pleasant but fatiguing journey. Anna
was much admired, much questioned, and much
flattered, by her different coach companions, and
soon recovered her spirits. She talked incessantly
until she fell asleep at night, in Captain Burford's
arms, and awoke, in the early morning, in
London.

5, Duke-streets' said Captain Burford, to the
driver of the hackney-coach ; cabs were not then
as plentiful as they are now.

Uncle Timothy, in his dining-room, by a large
fire, fast asleep in his easy-chair. A fine tabby
cat asleep on his knee; the table covered with a
tea and coffee service; cold meat on the sideboard,

and candles burnt low. A ring at the doorbell.
Up starts Uncle Timothy  down tumbles
Puss in surprise. Such a thundering knock ! Outgoes
Uncle Timothy, and stumbles over his housekeeper,
muttering, " Bless me ! bless me ! " In
blusters Captain Burford, shakes hands with Uncle
Timothy, pushes Anna forwards, and stands still
to see what impression she makes.

' Come in, little girl, come in," is the only
visible, or rather audible, effect of the impression.

Anna goes in, and then holds out her hand, and
says, 'show do you do. Uncle Timothy? thank
you for putting me to schools

So far Jessie had tutored her, but not to restrain
the tears that came into her eyes.

Uncle Timothy shook hands with her, looked at
her, and exclaimed 

Bless me ! the father and aunt all over."

Would you like to come upstairs. Miss ? "
said the housekeeper.

Oh ! very much indeed," said poor Anna, hastening
out of the room.

No sooner was she upstairs, than she began to
cry very heartily.

DonH cry, that's a dear," said Mrs. Hicks,
the housekeeper. ' There aunt a better, kinder
man in the world than your uncle ; only he's odd
at first."

I can stay here  I must go home again  I
won't go to school," said Anna.

Its all new to you now, my dear ; but you will
soon get used to everything. WeU go and see
London by-and-by, and all the fine sights. I daresay
you never see a Christmas pantomime ?"

''A what?" said Anna, brightening up.

Oh, such a sight ! we shall see. But now take
off your bonnet. Dear, dear, there's curls !"

And so Mrs. Hicks coaxed and flattered Anna
into tranquillity, and finally conducted her down
to breakfast.

Uncle Timothy shakes hands with her again,
and pats her on the head ; and good Captain Burford
gives her a hearty kiss, which nearly makes
her cry again; but she thinks of the Christmas
pantomime and all the London sights, and cheers
up. Uncle Timothy and Captain Burford, though
to all appearance very different sort of people, have
still many points of resemblance, as indeed most
of us have. They soon get on very well together,
and whilst they are talking, Anna makes a very
good breakfast ; after which, the housekeeper insists
on her going to bed. She resists at first, but
when assured that she will be fit for no sightseeing
unless she sleeps, she resigns herself, and
is soon fast asleep, and dreaming of Fairfield, the
coach, and London shows.

When she awoke the gentlemen were both out ;
but Mrs. Hicks was commissioned to amuse her,
and accordingly took her to see Madame Tussauds
wax-work. In the evening she went with her
uncle and Captain Burford to the play and it is
difficult to say whether Captain Burford or his
little ward drew down the most scandal on their
Worthy host. The Captain s laughter was so loud,
that it drowned Anna's ; but the pair attracted the
attention of their neighbours by the unfashionable
exuberance of their merriment, and delighted Mr.
Barnard beyond expression thereby.

Anna rose the following morning with far different
feelings : she was to go to school. Not all
her good resolutions would make her like school,
she was sure. Her new friend, Mrs. Hicks, who
had taken a great fancy to her, and had already
begun to spoil her, did her best to comfort her :
it was all in vain. She could eat no breakfast,
and Uncle Timothy looked compassionately at her
through his spectacles.

You must come and see me, or rather Mrs.
Hicks," he said, '' every holiday ; I dare say Miss
Primmerton will allow you."

'' Oh ! thank you. Uncle Timothy," said Anna,
letting fall the tears that she had been trying
hard to restrain. " Do you think I may come tomorrow
?"

We shall see' said Uncle Timothy.

' Not if you go there in tears' suggested Captain
Burford. " Cheer up little woman ! Why
it was only the other day you said that if you were
a inn , you would be a sailor. A pretty sailor,
"indeed 1"

Poor Anna tried to smile, but the tears would
fall. Uncle Timothy fidgeted, and said he had a
patient to see before he could go with his niece to
Miss Primmerton's establishment. He went out,
and then his carriage came to the door, and Anna's
boxes were put into it. Captain Burford told her
to remember Midsummer, and to try to learn, and
be a good girl ; and the more he talked, the more
she cried. Uncle Timothy came back with his
pockets looking much larger than when he went
out. He drew forth a beautiful gilt book, and
then a nondescript little ornament, and finally a
packet full of sweetmeats; before he had completed
these operations, a shopboy came to the
door with the most perfect of workbox ; and all
these purchases were duly presented to Anna, who
felt it absolutely incumbent upon her to dry her
tears, and look up at Uncle Timothy. The little
girl's bright black eyes, sparkling with tear-drops,
met the kind, gentle glance of her relative, and ina
moment, for the first time, her arms were round
his neck, and her lips on his cheek.

Bless me ! bless me !  said Uncle Timothy ina
flurry, adjusting his wig first, and then putting
his arm tenderly round her waist.

She takes one by storm always' said Captain
Burford, " even when one ought to scold her.
Now, little minx, run away, and dry your tears''

Anna went upstairs.

I wish she were not so like her father's
family," said Uncle Timothy : " that beauty ! that
beauty ! it is a sad temptation."

 The eldest girl is the picture of her mother,
and the eldest boy something like you," said Captain
Burford. "There never was such a girl as
my Jessie. She and my son Nelson are engaged."

"What, already ?" said Mr. Barnard, looking
surprised.

Anna interrupted the reply. She came in
smiling, and, going up to Uncle Timothy, told
him that she liked her work-box very much, and
would try to like Avork; that the book was a beautiful
story, full of pictures, and that she should
take the sweetmeats to school, to give her playfellows.


"But may I leave my book here, to read on
holidays ? " she added, " because I mean to work
at school."

To be sure," said Uncle Timothy, opening his
bookcase and patting her on the head.

They drove to Miss Primmertons Establishment,
situated near Kensington Gardens. They
were shown into a handsome drawing-room, and
Miss Primmerton soon appeared. She was a short
lady, very short ; upright, very upright, in person,
and doubtless in principles. She had very prominent
features, and a thin face; wore spectacles,
and carried an eye-glass. Her eyes were large
and dark, and whether it was that they projected
beyond the eyelids, and so were by nature intended
to see more than other eyes, or whether a
habit of general observation had given them peculiar
power, certain it is that they seemed to look
every way at the same time: for instance, although
she professed to be talking principally to Mr. Barnard,
Captain Burford felt sure that she was addressing
him, and Anna could have shrunk into
an egg-shell, to avoid the searching side-looks that
fell upon her. It need scarcely be said that the
head of a first-rate West-end school was gifted
with, or had acquired, most perfect manners, only
the very lax would have considered them too stiff,
and the impertinent too resolutely scholastic. I
must add, as one of the supporters of Miss Prim-merton
reputation for gentility, that she did not
consider herself a schoolmistress, or her house
a school; she objected to the title of governess

VOL. I. E

as applied to herself, and annihilated by a glance
everybody who mentioned her as in any way connected
with a seminary or establishment. Tiat
she did call herself or her household it would be
difficult to say ; but she wished the whole to be
considered as a " family." The young ladies used
to give it the title of the " Happy Family," one of
them having so named it after a certain caged collection
of creatures to be seen near the National
Gallery. As the cat always appeared to them the
chief of that "happy family," they called Miss
Primmerton "Puss;" the head English teacher
was honoured by being " the Owl," or " Minerva ;"
and a good-tempered French woman was " Guinea-pig
;" the girls themselves, and one or two under-teachers,
bore the various denominations of the
rats, mice, small birds, etc., of that united party ;
and much secret mirth was caused, whenever they
could remove themselves from Miss Primmertons
Argus eyes (which was but seldom), by bandying
about these different epithets.

Miss Burton is to be entirely under my charge
for four years, as a member of my family, and to
be taught whatever I think her capable of acquiring
? " said Miss Primmerton.

Just so," replied Mr. Barnard. " Should it be
well for her to assist in your school as a teacher

afterwards, I suppose lie would be still treated
like your other pupils, as she must, of course,
continue to learn as well ?''

'your little circle can scarcely be termed a
school; we are a limited number, and quite a
family party. My young friends are all equally
at home." Miss Primmerton said this with dignity,
and terrified her last " young friend " by a
side glance from the prominent orbs.

The deuce is in it," said the Captain gruffly,
who had taken an aversion to Miss Primmerton,
"if a school isn't a school all the world over.
Some are good and some are bad ; yours, Maam,
I hear, is first-rate."

Miss Primmerton, with increased dignity, growing
red, and looking quite tall 

We have great advantages. Bochsa has consented
to give instructions on the harp. I have,
with immense difficulty, prevailed on Hers to
give occasional piano lessons. I have secured
Harding for drawing, and Cruelly for singing.
We have a French teacher in the house, so that
nothing but French is spoken amongst us ; and a
first-rate Italian master."

The Captain shrugged his shoulders, and looked
at Anna.

You will astonish the natives when you come

E 2

back, child' he said. " I hope. Ma'am, you will
teach her geography and the use of the compass,
for she has determined upon being a sailor."

Miss Primmerton got up a faint smile, which
drew the corner of one side of her mouth upon a
level with her nose, whilst the other corner remained
stationary.

I shall be glad to see my niece whenever there
is a holiday'' said Mr. Barnard, " and wil send
for her, if she will drop me a line."

I allow only one afternoon every month ; holidays
interfere with studies. Friends are requested
to be kind enough to call on a Saturday. I rarely
permit my young friends to see any one at other
uncertain periods ; it unfits them for their course
of daily duties. I should also mention that I make
a point of reading every letter and note that either
leaves or enters my house."

Poor Anna ! she thought of her diary, of pouring
out her heart to Jessie : this was a cruel disappointment
to begin with.

Madam," said the Captain, " do you think her
brothers and sister will write anything improper
to the child, or she to them ? Zounds ! that is a
hard rule ; sailors are better off than that."

It is mine. Sir. It prevents much mischief,
that you may not, perhaps, understand ; and there

ought not to be any secrets between young people
and a friend placed in my position.-'

 I think, Captain," said Uncle Timothy, who
began to fear a breeze, "that we are detaining
Miss Primmerton. When shall I see my little
niece, Madam?"

'She can go to you the first Saturday of the
ensuing month. If you will excuse my saying so,
I consider that it would be better for her not to
see you again before that period."

The tears came into Annans eyes. Captain
Burford went to her, and began to condole with
her. Uncle Timothy said he hoped she would bea
good little girl ; then, turning gently to Miss
Primmerton, he added, in an under tone aside,
'* I am sure. Madam, you will be kind to her. She
is an orphan, and that is recommendation enough.
We shall put implicit faith in you. If she is ill,
and if you have no objection, I should be fflad to
be allowed to attend upon her ; and if I can ever
be of service to you in a professional way, I shall
be very happy. I am thankful to have made my
fortune, and therefore seldom need fees, except
from those who can well afford it."

Miss Primmerton softened. Real kind feeling
soon reaches the heart, and hers was not harder
by nature than others, only the formality, that she

considered a duty hid whatever original warmth
she still retained.

"You may depend on me," she said gravely,
"and I am much obliged to you for your kind
offer. What is your name, my dear ?" turning to
Anna, and taking her hand.

Annabella, Ma'am," said the child, looking up
through her tears.

"I hope, Annabella, we shall be very good
friends," said Miss Primmerton with formal kindness.


By Jove, you gave that old hag a fee, instead
of taking one, doctor," said Captain Burford when
he had given Anna her last kiss, and was seated
by Uncle Timothy in the carriage. " If you are
so fascinating, she will think you have fallen in
love with her."

Oh no ! upon my honour, I only  " said the
doctor, quite confused. The bare idea of falling
in love always upset him.

Captain Burford laughed heartily.

I can't bear her," he said, when he ceased ;
that dear child's spirit will be broken."

The "dear child" was taken to her bedroom
by Miss Primmerton, followed thither by her
boxes and one of the teachers. There were two
neat beds without curtains, two chests of drawers.

two washhand-stands, one horse with four towels
thereon ; in shorty everything requisite for two
young ladies.

' You will be required to be very neat ; to keep
your drawers in order, and to mend your clothes
under the direction of Miss Meek/ said Miss
Primmerton to Anna.

Miss Meek the young lady present, looked as
though her nature did not belie her name.

You must rise at six ; be particular in your
dress and person, and you must be in bed at half-past
nine. I allow no noise in your bed-rooms.
The young lady who sleeps in this room is very quiet.
Miss Meek, will you see that Miss Burton s clothes
are arranged, and then bring her to the study ?"

Having concluded her ordinary directions, Miss
Primmerton left the room. Anna looked at Miss
Meek, and, seeing something tearful in the expression
of her face, began to cry. Miss Meek
seemed much inclined to join her, but, checking
herself, asked her to begin to unpack her clothes.
Anna gave Miss Meek the key, sobbing out that
she could not unlock her box. The box was unlocked,
and the chest of drawers was soon filled.
Miss Meek brushed Annans long curls for her, and
gave her a kiss, which voluntary act occasioned
more tears.

They went down to the study. Miss Primmer-ton
came forward and , taking Anna by the hand,
formally introduced her to some nine or ten girls,
of ages varying from twelve to seventeen, who all
looked up at her from their books, muttered " How
do you do ? " and continued to stare at her until
Miss Primmerton told them, like Dr. Climber,
"to resume their studies." Miss Primmerton's
number was twelve, but the others were with masters.
Anna was then examined as to her acquirements,
and, being found sadly deficient, was given
over to Miss Meek for the present, which pleased
her much.

Her attention was soon engrossed by what she
considered the wonderful learning of the " family."
The unknown tongues they talked, the lessons
they learnt, the readings they read, the themes they
composed, the drawings they drew, the music they
played, cast her into a perfect dream of amazement
and terror. How should she ever manage to get
through one tithe of such a vast amount of erudition?
Her courage, never the mightiest when
learning was the enemy to be opposed, sank to
zero. When the dinner-hour came, and she laid
down the first French lesson-book, in which Miss
Meek had been patiently looking, in the flattering
notion that Anna was doing the same, she hoped

there might be a respite. No such thing : French
was indefatigably spoken by the few who ventured
to speak ; and Miss Primmerton's eyes were more
omnipresent than ever. She felt that they saw
every mouthful she ate , and she was afraid of choking
beneath their influence. Not that Miss Prim-merton
addressed her; she was allowed the first
day to get into the routine as she best could.

"Miss Colville/' or "Mademoiselle Colville/'
for it was aU in French " how you stoop ! " said
Miss Primmerton.

Miss Colville drew up.

My dear Miss Nicholson pray do not eat in
that voracious manner."  " Shall I give you some
more beef, Miss Mary T  "You poke your head
like a horse Miss Grant   and so on.

Anna heard one young lady, who sat next her,
murmur to another , " Poor Puss !"

What were you saying, Mademoiselle ?"

Nothing, Maam," was the reply.

The dinner was excellent. No young lady could
possibly complain at home that she had not enough
to eat, or that the viands were ill served or ill-cooked.
Two neat parlour-maids waited, who put
Anna into a great fright when they came for her
plate, and occasioned Miss Primmertons eyes to be
turned full upon her. The kind French teacher,

E 3

who was a married woman, and had a husband and
children in her own country, compassionate Anna,
and spoke to her once or twice in broken English,
but she was too much frightened to reply ; and it
must have been something very terrible to bridle
her tongue. She was so awkward, that Miss Prim-merton
was panting to speak to her, and when she
upset a few drops of water on the cloth, that excellent
lady could restrain herself no longer, but
said 

My dear Miss Annabella, you must be carefully'
The eleven young ladies looked at Anna, which
made her blush scarlet, and one of them said,
Qu'elleestjolie, la petite P' which drew from Miss
Primmerton the excellent but trite motto, "La
beauten'est que jassagere , 7nais la bone dure''

Anna knew they were talking of her, and was
ready to cry : it was so very hard, she thought, to
be in England and yet not understand a word that
was spoken.

After dinner Miss Primmerton left them with
a teacher for about ten minutes. They did not a
appear to be afraid of the teacher, so they gave
vent to their long suppressed conversation, some
in French, some in English, as the " Francis,
Mesdemoiselles /" of the teacher was unheeded.
One delicate-looking, pretty girl came up to the

comer where Anna had ensconced herself, and
began to talk to her kindly. Annans heart was
opened at once, and her companion had already
learnt how many relatives she had, where she lived,
and much more, when Miss Primmerton appeared,
and caused a dead silence.

Miss Primmerton ordered a walk in Kensington
Gardens, and the young ladies obeyed. Anna was
fortunate in being consigned to the companionship
of Louisa Colville, the pretty girl who had previously
spoken to her ; but was much disappointed
when she found that they were obliged to walk
primly, two and two ; to attend to their carriage
and their toes ; requested not to look about them,
and to speak little and quietly. How she longed to
run and get warm, as she saw some little children
doing ; and above all, how she sighed for the frozen
duck-pond at home, on which she had been used
to slide with her brothers ! They returned home
with cold fingers and red noses, to set to work
again. How could she learn that French lesson ?
she spelt it in English, and could make nothing of
it ; she did not know what the accents were. Louisa
Colville read it over to her a great many times,
and somehow or other she caught it by ear,  she
could not have read one word of it in any other
book,  and she said it in fear and trembling, to

Miss Primmerton herself, who praised lier, and
said in French that she seemed a quick child. Quick
she was but not persevering, as Miss Primmerton,
the teachers, and Anna found afterwards, to their
cost.

They had tea, at which it was their custom to
speak Italian; so the conversation was even less
general than at dinner, and Miss Primmertons
eyes more prominent and omnipresent than ever.

' Miss Colville, your nose will be literally in the
butter by-and-by," she remarked amongst other
things, taking up her eye-glass in addition to her
spectacles.

Miss Colville was frequently a victim, because
she was rather shy, rather awkward, yet sometimes,
when roused, rather pert. Anna looked at her
friend.

I am so near-sighted. Ma'am, and I don't
wear spectacles ; I wish I did, and an eye-glass,"
was the reply.

The girls tittered, and Miss Primmerton grew
red.

Miss Colville, you are pert'' said Miss Prim-merton,
growing redder.

"I beg your 'pardon. Ma'am," said Miss Colville,
" I did not intend to be pert, but merely to
say that I was near-sighted."

INIiss Primmerton was reduced to silence, and
they soon returned to their studies. Even the
evening was devoted to learning, and, seated
round the back drawing-room tables, they read
instructive books, and were questioned on what
they read, by way of amusement. Miss Prim-merton
did her duty, and more than her duty :
but she said that as hers was a finishing " family's
no time was to be lost. The younger
girls were not worked quite so hard, but Anna felt
sure that she should never get through her share
of lessons. They went to bed at half-past eight,
and enjoyed half an hours freedom. Louisa Colville
was Annans fellow-lodger, to her great delight.
Miss Primmerton had put them together
as a punishment to Miss Colville, who had been
the means of inducing another young lady into
nocturnal conversations of too lengthy a nature,
and was therefore separated from her. She was
too anxious to discover Annans private history,
to talk much of the '' Family's' but she assured
her that " Miss Primmerton was a worthy old
cat, only she was too much given to prowling,
mousing, and scratching, and could see in the darker'

Miss Primmerton came precisely at half-past
nine to extinguish the light. Before doing so she
flashed the candle across the faces of the two

girls,, in order to see whether they were asleep ; and
having thus concluded the duties of her very hard
day, she descended to the study, and regaled herself
and principal teachers with something comfortable
in the eating and drinking way.

Anna meanwhile had pretended to be asleep,
until her companion was asleep, and then she slipped
quietly out of bed, knelt down, and prayed God to
bless all the dear friends she had left behind her,
her Uncle Timothy, and Nelson, far away on the
great ocean. She leant her face on the bed, and
let her tears melt into it. She asked to be made
good, and then again prayed for her dear sister.
Oh ! she had never known how much she loved her
until that sad day,  poor child ! perhaps the first
day of real trial that she had ever passed  unshared,
softened trial. School is, truly, an epitome of
the world, the first hard stage in the difficult
course of life.

CHAPTER V.

Though, by a sickly taste betray'd,
Some will dispraise the lovely maid,

With fearless pride I say
That she is healthful, fleet, and strong,
And down the rocks can leap along,

Lite rivulets in May.

And she hath snules to earth unknown.
Smiles that with motion of their own

Do spread, and sink, and rise ;
That come and go with endless play,
And ever, as they pass away,

Are hidden m her eyes."  Wordsworth.

'' Uncle Timothy, I did not know that you had a
baby," said Anna to her uncle, on that happy
" first Saturday of the month," named by Miss
Primmerton as the holiday.

My dear, what do you mean ? " said Uncle
Timothy, getting very red and looking terrified.

Oh ! that dear little baby that went away when
you were out. I wanted to keep it, but the lady
said, as she had seen you, she would not stay any
longer. Is that your wife, Uncle Timothy ?"

Bless me ! bless me ! what odd questions !

My dear, the baby is my ward, and the lady is
taking care of her. You must ask no more questions
about her : if you do not, I will take you to
see her next months

'' Very well, Uncle Timothy," said Anna, looking
very much as if she would like to ask a great
many more questions. " But she is such a sweet
baby ; lovely dark, dark blue eyes, and hair curling
already under her cap, quite brown hair,  and
she came to me directly, and laughed, and pulled
my hair : you should have seen her laugh ! And
such a nice lady. Uncle Timothy ! is she her
mother ? Oh ! I forgot, I must not ask any questions."


And how do you like school, and Miss Prim-merton,
my dear V

Not very much. Uncle Timothy. There is so
much to learn, and I am so backward. Miss Prim-merton
says. There is so much to learn ! it is all
day long reading, and writing, and grammar, and
geography, and history, and that hard word about
the gods and goddesses that I could read : and
another about the moon and stars, and suns ; and
then music, and French, and drawing,  and that is
not half that the big girls have to do. And Sundays
we have no more time : there are the sermons
to write out, and questions to answer out of

the Bible, and hymns and collects and catechism,
and sacred reading ; so much more than I used todo
with Jessie, and yet I felt better with her, I
don't know why."

Uncle Timothy guessed why, but said nothing.

And how do you like your schoolfellows, my
dear?" he asked.

a Very well  some of them. A great many tease
me, and laugh at me when I can learn, and make
fun of my old-fashioned frocks ; but I done much
care, only I can't bear them when they do it. But
I love Louisa Colville, dearly."

' And who is she ?" asked Uncle Timothy.

She sleeps in my room. Her papa and mamma
are in India : she showed me where they were on
the big map the other day, a great way off, where
Nelson is gone. I hope they will know Nelson.
Louisa has been with Miss Primmerton ever since
she was seven, and now she is past thirteen, and
she stays the holidays, which is very dull ; only she
says Miss Primmerton is not half so strict and
cross in the holidays. Louisa is very kind to me,
and takes my part, and helps me with my lessons."

' Have you written home ?" asked Uncle Timothy.


"Yes," replied Anna with a downcast face.
Oh, such a stiff letter ! Miss Primmerton saw

it, and made me alter it, and write it like a copy
slip. I am sure Jessie will think me altered. Uncle
Timothy, will you give me a sheet of paper,
and a pen and ink, and let me write a letter here ?
There will be no harm in that, you know, because
Miss Primmerton only said that she saw all the
letters that left her house, but she needn't see
those that leave yours V

Uncle Timothy was half afraid there was a little
sophistry in this reasoning, but as he wished the
sisters to have unrestrained intercourse, he readily
granted Anna's request, and began to prepare the
writing materials at once.

Whilst Anna was pouring out her heart, in very
bad spelling and worse writing, to her sister. Uncle
Timothy was in close conversation with Mrs. Hicks,
after which he again went to see patients. When
Anna had completed her letter, Mrs. Hicks came
to take her for a walk. They went into Bond-street,
and Mrs. Hicks conducted her to the private
door of a house, on which was inscribed
"Madlle. Fourbillon, milliner and dress-maker."
They were shown upstairs, and Madlle. Fourbillon
was requested to take Anna's measure for two new
frocks, with corresponding walking apparel. She
was told to make them simple but good; and Mrs.
Hicks informed her that the yomig lady was a niece

of Mr. Timotliy Barnard of Duke-street. Uncle
Timothy would certainly have called Madlle. Four-dillon
demonstrative. She clasped her hands and
exclaimed , ' The worthy man ! The superior medicine
! The distinguished chirurgeon ! He attend
me, Meets, and charge me noting.

The girls will not laugh at my old-fashioned
frocks now , or wonder that I have no ornaments
said Anna, when she returned to. Duke-street.

But, my deary said Uncle Timothy, " you
must not be proud of the new ones. Neat clothes
are all very well, and I should like you to be properly
dressed; but you must remember that it is
a meek and quiet spirit ' that God loves."

That is what Mamma used to say, and Jessie
says sometimes : you are like them, I think. Uncle
Timothy. But the girls like fine clothes and
grand people. I shall tell them about Mr. Michelson.
They wouldn't believe me when I said we
ought to have the great house that the Earl of
Chatham used to live in''

Uncle Timothy could not help smiling, whilst he
shook his head, and murmured to the bookshelf,
The old leaven, alas ! Pride of beauty  pride
of family  and nothing else. God help you, poor
child ! man cannot."

Anna looked wistfully into his face.

I didn't mean to do wrong, Uncle Timothy,"
she said.

NO;, my dear, I am sure of that. But dinner
is ready, and we must not forget that you must be
home before nine o'clock."

Not home Uncle Timothy ; at school. This
is my London home, and Fairfield is my proper
home. School is not like home, though Miss
Primmerton says it is."

Anna made such progress in her studies as a
child of quick abilities but studious nature generally
does. She got on rapidly with all that
gave her no trouble. She soon learnt to speak
French fluently, but shed innumerable tears over
the easiest exercises in that language. She picked
up more Italian, orally, than many bigger girls,
because it entered into her mind, she knew not
how. She managed to play pretty tunes by ear,
but was ages before she learnt the first scale, or
Cramer's first lesson, by note. She read and wrote
carelessly, and rarely managed to say a perfect lesson
unless Madame, or Louisa Colville taught it to
her first. She was alternately teased and spoilt by
the girls  scolded and secretly petted by Miss
Primmerton  in short, educated in the very way
she ought not to have been. Sometimes allowed
the free vent of her hot, quick temper  at others

punished for the display of it; instead of being
quietly and consistently checked and reasoned with,
as Jessie had tried to do.

During her first half-year of school-life she
learnt as much and perhaps more, than most girls
of her age; thanks to natural abilities, which,
though not wonderful, were good ; and thanks,
more properly to speak, to Miss Primmertons undeviating
regularity. Her pupils were obliged to
learn, grumble as they would,  sick or well, learn
they must : and as successive young ladies left her
house, finished,  to use the approved term,  she
had the satisfaction of knowing that they would
make their debut in the fashionable world, with at
least a smattering of most things, and above all,
with unexceptionable manners, morals, and an upright
deportment.

Anna was to spend her summer holidays at home,
and her winter ones at her uncle's. In spite of
his affirmed dislike to the society of children.
Uncle Timothy really liked to have her with him,
and by degrees fell into the common failing of
spoiling her. She did much as she liked both
with him and Mrs. Hicks. Captain Burford came
once to London on very particular business, and
Uncle Timothy kindly invited them to Duke-street.
Anna was allowed to spend a whole Sunday

with him which was, perhaps, more kind than
wise. Uncle Timothy fairly bolted at the parting
scene, and all Louisa Colville's kindness and
Miss Primmertons severity were necessary to keep
poor Anna from perpetual floods of tears the next
day. Captain Burford carried back wonderful reports
of her accomplishments, and of Uncle Timothy
goodness.

She generally saw Mrs. Eveleigh and the baby,
who had been christened Sophia, for a short time
during her monthly holiday. She liked Mrs. Eve-leigh,
and quite doted on the baby ; and her greatest
treat was to be driven by Uncle Timothy to
Peckham, and to spend the half-hour allotted, in
talking to the one and caressing the other. Mrs.
Eveleigh had partly recovered her spirits, and the
baby throve amazingly.

The Midsummer holidays came at last, and she
was once more vrith her darling Jessie, Pynsent,
Charley, Aunt Betsey, and Captain Burford. Oh,
how they flew by, those holidays ! She found little
alteration at home. Pynsent and Jessie were as
steady as ever, and had put the first ten pounds
into the bank, towards the paying ofi* of the two
thousand pounds mortgage. Jessie had had a beautiful
letter from Nelson, and Captain Burford more
than one. Peter, her twin brother, was on the seas,

a midshipman. Aunt Betsey was in very low spirits,
and read the paper, when she could get one,
more than usual  principally the Continental gossip
and the marriages ; but she only met with Mr.
Michelsons name once, and that was in connection
with some famous picture at Rome. Michelson
Hall was shut up, and Master Chatham was
said to be spending his holidays with an aunt in
Wales. Jessicass patience was sorely tried by Aunt
Betsey s irritability, but her good temper always
triumphed.

Several years passed, the events of which, although
commonplace enough, were important to
the various actors in our little drama. Pynsent
finished his apprenticeship to the doctor, and
many were the consultations between him, Jessie,
Uncle James, and Captain Burford, upon the best
means of raising money, to enable him to study
in London, and pass the College. Captain Burford
proposed writing to Mr. Barnard for advice;
but Pynsent at once negatived this, and said that
it would look like begging for assistance, which
they ought not to do, as their uncle was at such an
expense for Anna. He also said that he would rather
go to London unknown to his uncle, and try
to get on by himself. It might be foolish, but he
should like to try at least to become known to a

relation he esteemed, by his own merit, rather than
through the mere ties of blood. Captain Burford,
not being a man of the world, and having a great
notion of young people's roughing it, readily assented
to this scheme, as did Mr. Barnard the
elder, who helped to raise the necessary funds. It
was thought better to keep Anna in the dark respecting
Pynsent's movements, for a time at least,
as they all knew she would never be able to conceal
his being in London from her uncle. So Pynsent
went to London with introductions from the gentleman
with whom he had served his apprenticeship,
and such directions as were necessary from the same
quarter. He took a small cheap lodging in the
neighbourhood of Guy's Hospital, and was resolved
to eschew the gaieties of London as he would
the plague, and to devote himself to all manner
of hideous skeletons and terrific dissections.

Meanwhile Jessie laboured cheerfully for all.
The number of shirts that she cut out, made, or assisted
to make, annually was astonishing ; and the
quantity of work that she got through every day,
more surprising still. How she kept house, superintended
the making of butter and cheese, directed
the farm business, with the assistance of her Uncle
James, who had a farm not very far off, and bore
with Aunt Betsey's humours, was more praiseworthy

than all the accomplishments under the sun.
Not that I wish to disparage accomplishments ;
but simply to show that young people may be good,
amiable, estimable, and lady-like without them,
and ought not to be looked down upon by the
short-sighted of their sex, who can see no beauties
in any one, but through a very peculiar and fashionably
shaped eye-glass. Jessie wrote a beautiful
hand ; was a first-rate accountant ; did plain work
to perfection ; knew how to embroider, but never
had time for it; could make puddings and pies,
and preserves and jellies, and syllabus and junkets
; understood all about butter making, bread
making, cheese making, and cider making ; was a
capital florist, and knew a good deal practically,
and by books, concerning the culture of bees;
could rear and feed turkeys, geese, ducks, chickens,
and pigeons, and had a very superior way of bringing
up young calves. Moreover, she could dance
country dances and reels well and gracefully, and
could make one, if absolutely wanted, in a quadrille ;
she could sing ballads to perfection without any
accompaniment ; and as to poetry, I verily believe
she could recite almost every piece she had ever
read. Her father had collected some very good
books of his day, and with these she was well acquainted.
The ' Spectator' and  Rambler' were her

VOL. I. F

especial favourites, and probably it was from reading
these excellent works that she had acquired the
power of expressing herself with clearness and even
elegance when she wrote. Percy's Reliques and
the Elegant Extracts had a peculiar charm for her ;
and perhaps it was to the old ballads, and her tim
for poetry, that she was indebted for the vein of
romance that ran almost unsuspected through the
fine common sense for which she was remarkable.
As Sunday was her only leisure day, she read more
books of a religious nature than of any other ; and
those books, thanks to her father's pure taste, were
of the best description. Jeremy Taylor was the
writer she loved best, next to the inspired authors
of the Bible. She lost herself in his stupendous
mind, and found matter for delightful reflection
during the week in the sublime poetry in which he
clothed his thoughts. Explanations of the Prophecies,
and all works that threw a light on the
obscure passages of Sacred Writ, were particularly
attractive to her ; and it was a pleasant thing, of a
Sunday evening, to see her seated at a small table
near the parlour window, with her mother's large
Bible open before her, containing notes and marginal
references : on her right hand some old divine,
to whom she had been referring, and on
her left the ponderous folio of Jeremy Taylor's

sermons. Aunt Betsey, with her Prayer-book
open near her, might be dozing in the armchair.
Charley, with his elbows on the table, and his head
resting on his hands, might be gazing entranced on
one of the pictures in the large family Bible, which,
being illustrated from paintings of the old Masters,
had been his Sunday evening companion almost
from infancy ; and the tabby cat might be purring
on the cushioned window seat.

Such was the family picture on the evening
of the Sunday on which Charley had completed
his fourteenth, and entered on his fifteenth year.
Captain Burford had presented him with a beautiful
paint-box, which was conspicuously placed on a
side table ; and his Uncle James had given him ,the
Farmer's Calendar, the plates of which he admired
more than the chapters.

"Jessie, can you talk to me a little?" said the
boy.

Jessie was deep in one of the prophecies of
Isaiah, but she said "Yes, dear'' cheerfully, and
looked up from her book.

Do you know there is an artist in the town,
who takes likenesses and gives lessons in drawing?"
said Charley.

Really ! " exclaimed Jessie ; " how I wish you
could have some lessons ! "

f2

She had said at once what Charley had been
longing to say for days.

' Have you seen him, Charley ? and how does
he paint ? and where does he live ? "

'' He is staying at the Inn. I saw some of his
likenesses in the window yesterday, and one that
he had taken of the innkeeper was very like. Oh !
there is Captain Burford !

The Captains head was suddenly poked in at
the window, and Jessie and Charley both flew to
open the door. As Aunt Betsey did not awake,
Jessie proposed going into the arbour; but Captain
Burford said he had left an acquaintance round
the corner, who would not come to the house until
he.Jiad obtained permission from its inmates.

Any friend of yours, you know. Captain Burford
 ' said Jessie.

The Captain disappeared, but soon returned,
accompanied by a stranger. This was the identical
artist.

Jessie, this is Mr. Snagrell, a first-rate artists
said Captain Burford. "Mr. Snagrell, this is
Miss Burton and the little boy I was talking to
you about, who is such a clever drawers

The young man bowed, and said 

"You mistake, Sir, my name is Sangarelli. I
am one Italians

"I beg your pardon, Mr. SnagreUi/ said the
Captain. '' Charley, run and fetch your drawing
book; I want to show Mr. Snagrell your 


Charley looked modest : the Italian begged him
to comply with the Capitan's request, and Charley
obeyed. He soon returned with the best of his
drawings, which were placed upon the rustic table
of the arbour.

The first that Signor Sangarelli took up was a
sketch of cattle, evidently from nature, as it was
rough in outline, hastily done, and little shaded.
He was surprised, but made no remark. The next
was a picture of Fairfield, not so clever ; correct,
but laboured in the shading. This was coloured
with bad paint, and there was an evident want of
knowledge of the combination of colour : still the
lights and shadows were carefully studied. The
next was Charley's favourite subject, a sketch of
Jessie. Could the one that Nelson had taken away
with him have been compared with this, a vast
improvement would have been visible. The expression
was caught, and the few finishing touches
were more artistic. Signor Sangarelli looked at
it and at Jessie alternately, till Jessie felt her
cheeks growing red.

' Vera good," he said at last.

The various sketches of cattle and rural scenery
were decidedly the best, and Signor Sangarelli said
that they all showed great talent, that ought to be
cultivated. Jessie fixed her truthful eyes upon
the face of the speaker, and saw that he meant
what he said. It may be remarked here that
Jessicass eyes were of that rare kind in which you
seemed to read the word " Truth" at a glance ;
and daring, indeed, must have been that individual
who could have uttered a falsehood whilst looking
into them.

How Charley's pale face flushed, and how his
heart beat, whilst he listened to the artist's praises
of his early efforts ! How well he knew that the
remarks he made were for the most part just; and
how certain he felt that, with instruction, study,
and time, he might rival those great men of whom
he had read !

'' What are your charges for instruction ?" asked
Captain Burford.

Five shillings a lesson," was the reply.

Charley's heart sank ; Jessie looked grave, and
Captain Burford shook his head.

I am afraid that is more than we can afford,"
said Jessie in her straightforward way, " although
we should like my brother to have a few lessons :
but we will think it over tomorrow, and let you

know. Sunday is not quite the day for these
matters

You are rights my dears said Captain Burford;
I hope Nelson will always be led by you."

Oh ! I will say half-a-crown a lesson to a
brother artist' said Signor Sangarelli eagerly.
I shall not be in these parts long, so I will come
tomorrow, and twice more in the week."

Jessie thought this a summary mode of proceeding,
but did not object, and the matter was settled.

The following morning saw Charley taking his
first lesson. They were all well pleased with the
artist, as he understood enough of the rules of art
to give Charley many valuable hints. He was also
clever enough to discover surprising talent in his
pupil, who would very soon have surpassed his
master. Charley had sixteen lessons,  all that
Jessie could afford to give him. But these were
great helps to him in his after self-education ; and
the praise he received from Signor Sangarelli encouraged
him to proceed in his endeavours after
excellence. But, unfortunately, he had no one
but Jessie to whom he could confide his yearning
to study painting as a profession ; and she having
heard of the difficulties attending such a course,
scarcely dared to bid him hope for the accomplishment
of his desires.

CHAPTER VI.

'Twas hard from those I loved to go,
Who knelt around my bed,
Whose tears bedew'd my burning brow,
Whose arms upheld my head.

As fading from my dizzy view,

I sought their forms m vain.

The bitterness of death I knew,

And groan'd to live again."  Hebe,

' If there is no means of my being made an artist,
Jessie, I will be a farmer," said Charley one day to
his sister, during an anxious conversation that they
were having on his future prospects. *Next to
painting, I love the country ; and I could help
you best by learning regularly to farm. Besides,
I could still study my art, and might make something
of myself by-and-by.'

' I am afraid, my dear boy, that you must strive
to be either one thing or the other. We have not
the means, and do not know how to let you regularly
study painting; so if farming is your next
inclination, you had better take Uncle James's
offer, and go to him for a few years. His is such

an immense farm, that yon would learn more therein
a month than you could learn here in a twelvemonths'


'*Time will prove, Jessie," said Charley sadly,
but the sooner I begin something the better."

Jessie looked fondly into her youngest and
dearest brother's face. It was not a very handsome,
but it was a most intellectual countenance.
Deep-set grey eyes, with eyebrows that threatened
to be rather bushy, gleamed from beneath a broad
forehead. There was already a slight contraction
between the eyebrows, which, to judge from his
pale thin cheeks, you would have fancied the fruit
of suffering; and the compression of the mouth
you would have attributed to the same cause. But
Charles, although always a delicate boy, had never
endured much bodily pain. The quickness of eye,
the working nostril, the thoughtful brows, the
mouth with its expression of character, denoted
the early struggles of mind ; and the tall thin
figure bespoke the youth of nineteen rather than
of fifteen years old.

Captain Burford and Jessie had both come to
the conclusion that if he followed the bent of his
inclination, he would soon kill himself by study ;
and they fancied that to save his life, it should be
made as active as possible. They had, moreover,

r 3

no means whatever of forwarding his plan of becoming
an artist by profession, and did not even
know the Away to set about it. They considered
that he could not do a better thing for his health
and strength than accept Mr. James Barnard
offer of going to him to study practical farming ;
and accordingly to his uncle he went.

This uncle was, like his brother Timothy, a
bachelor, and a decided oddity. In his youth he
had been very much smitten by Miss Betsey Burton
and her beauty, and having been contemptuously
refused by that lady, he had eschewed the society
of females, given himself up to farming and hunting,
his dogs, and a few old friends. He did not
often visit Fairfield, because he had never wholly
healed the wound Cupid had inflicted, and the
sight of Miss Betsey, albeit not so lovely as informer
days, always affected him strangely. His
favourite amongst the children was Peter, and he
would have adopted him, had that very self-willed
youth been agreeable. But as he declared that
he would be a sailor, and would not go and live at
The Granger his uncle told him to "go about
his business, and Charley should come to him''

Mr. James Barnard was a tall, large, burly,
bronzed, and genuinely honest yeoman; a fine
specimen of the English farmer. He had a rough

exterior a rough manner a rough hand when he
slapped his nephew Charles on the back and anything
but a rough heart. He was possessed of
property, both funded and landed. The Grange
where he resided, was his own; and he rented,
besides, Mr. Michelsons largest farm. There was
very little poverty in his immediate neighbourhood,
for he kept all the poor, who chose to work,
employed, and paid them regularly. His land was
as rich and fertile as any in Somersetshire, that
very rich and fertile county ; and his fields sloped
smoothly down to the river Parrots, and looked
across at the famous little Isle of Athelney, where
King Alfred let the immortal cakes burn. His
abode was a large, rambling farmhouse, and his
style of living was profuse to extravagance. Bread
and cheese, and cider, milk, cream, butter and
bacon, must have almost learnt to walk into the
mouths of the various grades of visitors and beggars
that assailed the door ; and as to the huge hall table,
it was never spread. " Cut and come again" was
the motto Mr. Barnard had had inscribed on the
large wooden platter which usually held the brown
bread, and truly his guests did not refuse the invitation.
All his eatables and wrinkles were produced
from his own land, and he never grudged
them, scarcely indeed knew how much was consumed

in his house. All he knew was, that as
soon as one batch of bread,, fine rich cheese, or
gammon of bacon was gone, there were plenty
more to be had, and he never stopped to inquire
who had eaten the one, or was likely to devour the
other. Every Christmas a big hamper of good cheer
was despatched to his brother Timothy in London,
accompanied by a letter inviting him to the Grange,
which was duly acknowledged by the celebrated
surgeon, and the letter as duly replied to. Brother
Timothy always promised to visit his native place
as soon as his numerous professional engagements
would permit him ; but never since he had set himself
up as a surgeon in London had he fulfilled his
promise. Mr. Barnard had a kind of feeling that
his brother had become too grand for him ; but he
possessed too much honest pride to allow such a
feeling to be displayed openly. It had however
prevented his taking either Anna or his favourite
Peter to London.

' Charley ! Charley 1" hallooed Mr. Barnard one
day, two or three months after his nephew had
taken up his abode with him. He stood in the
middle of a large meadow, and his voice was that
of a Stentor. " Charley ! hollo there ! Charley, I
say ! Where the deuce is the lad ? My pony too !
111 see how 111 let him ride again !"

Mr. Barnard strode through the meadow, hallooing
at intervals, crossed a gate, and got into a
ploughed field ; walked over the furrows as if they
were turnpike roads, and reached a smaller field
by the river, fringed with alders and willows. He
paused to call '' Charley ! '' once more, and was
answered by a faint, " Coming, Uncle, coming ! "

Down by the rivers brink was Charley, astride
the pony, with a large book in his hand, that his
uncle perceived was the  Farmer s Calendar,' and
gloried therein. He went on however, and saw
that his favourite pony was almost knee-deep in
mud and water, and that he was quietly cropping
the rich grass by the river. Charley's feet just
touched the water, and he did not appear to have
the least intention of moving away. Before him
the cattle were standing in the calm river, and by
his side the willows were arching and forming themselves
into all sorts of picturesque shapes, reflected
in the water. The setting sun was casting his farewell
rays of gold over the scene, and some large
water-lilies were expanding their white leaves beneath
his beams. The birds were twittering sleepy
good-nights to each other, and the cows looked too
lazy to move away from the shallow part of the
stream into which they had walked. One old bull
in particular had fairly fallen asleep, and was literally
" standing for his picture."

What the dickens are you about, Sir ?'' shouted
Mr. Barnard, drawing near.

Only a minute. Uncle : directly, Uncle. Do
not disturb) the bull ! "

Mr. Barnard now stood by his nephew's side,
and saw, to his great disgust, the fly-leaf of the
handsome book he had given him, covered with
pencil-marks. He was about to protest against
such sacrilege, when he caught sight of the sketch
Charles was making. There was his famous bull,
as like as mere pencilling could make him. The
large head and sleepy face were sketched to perfection,
and the rest of him, though carelessly done
was unmistakably " he himself he." A rough outline
of some of the other cattle, the willows, sloping
field, water-lilies, and a few large stones, completed
a hasty but clever sketch, which even Mr. Barnard,
little as he knew of art, was struck with.

/ And that's how you study the  Farmer's Calendar,'
is it. Sir?" began Mr. Barnard, as soon
as the last stroke was put into the bull's head.
Dang my buttons, if ever I give you another
farming book ! Jerry up to his knees in water, besides,
taking cold ! Your feet as wet as they can
be ! My supper waiting, and the potatoes getting
cold ! I frightened out of my life, and all the
people in full hue and cry after you ! 'Twas only

the other day that I found you making a picture
in the middle of the hatfield and half the haymakers
looking over your shoulder ! The very
handles of the ploughs have got cows and dogs
upon em and you pretending to learn careering !
I can't put down a bit of a bill, or a letter, or a
book, but when I take it up again I must needs
see it ornamented either with my own big face, or
Polly's, or one of the hounds ! If that's the way
you mean to go on, a fig for your farming, say I \"

Indeed, Uncle, I could not resist  " began
Charles.

'' It's aU fudge, Sir : just go and drive them
cattle out of the water into Little Mallow Mead,
and then come home to supper."

Charles obeyed, and his uncle strode homewards,
fussing and fuming to himself. Charles overtook
him, and said 

' Indeed, Uncle, I will give up sketching altogether
; that will be the only way. I will make a
temperance vow."

The deuce a bit !" said his uncle. " Besides, I
want a picture of that bull in colours, to hang up in
the parlour; and if you'll do me a big one the
same as the little sketch you took this evening,
I'll give you a holiday."

My dear Uncle ! " said Charles, brightening

up, " that I will. He will make a splendid pictures


"I know I ought not to let you do it/ said
Mr. Barnard thoughtfully, scratching his head.
You 11 be neither one thing nor t'other. Haw !
haw ! haw ! A farmer sitting down in the middle
of his harvest to make a drawing of his waggon
and horses, or stopping in the middle of his ride
round his farm to sketch a flock of sheep, or walking
into the river to catch, as you painters call it,
the sun upon the water ! Haw ! haw ! haw ! Oh,
Charley, my boy, that won't do. You must catch
something a deal more lively than that."

swell, Uncle, as soon as ever I have finished
the bull, I will give it up, and take to studying
farming, and nothing else."

There's a hearty ! " said Mr. Barnard, inflicting
such a slap on his nephew's back as he dismounted
from his pony at the door of the house as
almost prostrated him. " A nice fellow, you, to
shove a waggon up-hill ! Haw ! haw ! haw ! "

Charles worked day and night until he had completed
a very large coloured sketch of the river
scene, in which the bull was the prominent feature.
It was wonderfully clever for an almost
self-taught youth ; but then it was coloured from
nature ; and an artist, gifted with genius such as

Charles possessed, is sure to do pretty well if he
trust wholly to her guidance. He stood in the
water and out of the water, wherever the bull and
cows chanced to be when he wanted them, until
he had finished his picture ; and being quite absorbed
in his art, forgot the sun, the rain, the
dews, and wet feet. The consequence was, that
he completed a painting that did not disgrace the
splendid gilt frame ordered for it, and caught such
a cold that it brought on a fever.

Poor fellow ! he is now lying on a bed of suffering,
and his uncle is watching impatiently by his
bedside. The gig has just been despatched for
Jessie, and a man and horse for the doctor.
Whilst he slumbers uneasily, Mr. Barnard reproaches
himself as the cause of the cold and fever.
He gets up and walks about the room ; his heavy
footstep awakes Charles. He sits down again ina
great passion with himself.

Is Jessie come ?  muttered Charles.

"Not quite," replied his uncle in a whisper;
' she'll be here directly. There, lie still now. Is
the pain so very bad ? Zounds ! why don't that
fool of a doctor come ! 'Tis always the case ; they
are never to be found when you send for them,
though in any sudden accident there's sure to be
three or four at hand. I wish Timothy was here's

Wheels were heard, and Mr. Barnard hurried
downstairs.

What is the matter ? " asked Jessie, meeting
him in the passage.

Charley is terribly iU ; go up to him straight'
said her uncle. " Who the dickens have we here ?
Pynsent ! where on earth did you come from ? "

The latter part of the sentence was addressed to
a young man who followed Jessie, and who was
Mr. Pynsent Burton, surgeon.

I came down last night, Uncle," said Pynsent,
returning his uncle's hearty shake of the hand.
I can attend to Charley, and therefore stopped
the boy who was going for Mr. Martin ; that is to
say, I sent him to the druggist's instead, and we
shall soon have the necessary remedies."

 Odds bobs !" said Mr. Barnard, 'and who's
to trust to such a young chap as you? 'Twas only
the other day I nursed you ; and you talking of
doctoring your brother ! But go your ways, and
see what's to be done for Charley. If all aunt
right, I shall send for Doctor Martin, mind you ;
so you needn't take offence." Pynsent left the
room. ' I saint a going to have a boy's life sacrificed
for the pleasure of seeing what such a sprig
as that can do  only just out of the e, half-fledged,
and yet quite cock-a-hoop. Oh the vanity

of this young generation ! I know what 111 do;
and then I shan offend the lad , for I saw some
of his poor mother's early spirit in him, when I
called him a young chap. I know what I will do.
I'll write to Timothy as things go on, and get his
advice,"

With this resolution, Mr. Barnard opened a
bureau that stood in the large hall, took up a sheet
of foolscap paper and spread it upon the desk, sat
down, and began, "Dear Brother*' He considered
a long time, and finally closed the bureau,
and went upstairs to see what Pynsent was about.

Mr. Barnard went downstairs, and wrote precisely
what he thought of Charley and Pynsent on
the sheet of foolscap. By the time he had done
this the boy arrived. He went upstairs again,
and found Pynsent in another room, preparing a
draught. By dint of questioning, he found out its
principal ingredients, hurried to the bureau, and
wrote them down. He continued to pursue this
course until the last moment before it was necessary
to send the letter to the post, when he signed,
sealed, directed, and despatched the foolscap, and
prepared another sheet.

In a few days poor Charley's fever assumed a
decidedly typhoid form, to use a medical term.
All the remedies employed by Pynsent could not

keep it down. Day and night he and Jessie
watched and tended this dear brother, only to see
him grow daily, nay hourly, worse and worse.
Mr. Barnard was so distressed that he made matters
worse by continual fretting and fuming. His
only comfort seemed in his bureau, and when
Jessie and Pynsent had time to wonder at anything,
they wondered to see him constantly writing,
and to learn that a letter arrived almost daily,
hitherto a rare event in his life. His brother replied
to his first letter by return of post : he said
that nothing could be better than the measures resorted
to by his nephew. As Charley got worse,
Mr. Martin came to see him, and to consult with
Pynsent ; but there was nothing more to be done
than Pynsent had done.

About the twelfth day Charley's life was despaired
of: typhus in its worst form had come on,
and was accompanied by constant delirium. Jessie
and Pynsent were well-nigh spent, and as to Mr.
Barnard, although of little use in the sick-room,
he could scarcely be prevailed upon to absent himself
from it, or to take any rest.

As Jessie sat alone one night by Charley's bed,
she gave way to an unusual burst of grief. She
suddenly thought of her mother's parting words,
Take care of little Charley." And that beloved

object of the mother's last earthly care, that youngest
born, was about, perhaps, to join her in another
world, and to leave Jessie for ever ! The only one
from whom she had never been separated, even fora
day, the patient, gentle brother. Jessie fell on
her knees, and poured out her sorrow at the footstool
of her God. Grief and prayer were no new
things to her. Young as she still was, she had
seen both her parents die, and had received from
them their last commands and last blessings.
Was she now to hear the final sigh of that beloved
brother? She suppressed the rising sob as she
prayed for him, '' Give him back to us, O my
God, for his Saviours sake ! Yet not my will, but
thine be done. These words recalled her natural
composure. Whatever the Almighty willed was
right. If it was His pleasure to take her brother
from this beautiful world to one more lovely,
where pain and grief were not, and all was peace
and happiness, it would be, doubtless, for the best;
he would be removed before much of evil or human
suffering had ruffled the serenity of his nature ;
and, after a brief space of existence, she might,
with God's grace, follow him, and dwell with him
for ever. But oh that he might know her before
he passed away ! Oh that those delirious wanderings,
fanciful and touching. as they were, might

cease and that he might be recalled to think of
his Saviour before the last dread hour' !

Out of the darkness and silence arose his voice,
even whilst she prayed. His mind strayed amongst
green fields, woods, waters, hills, and ruins. The
scenes and events of an innocent childhood were
present to him, and he gathered sweet violets for
his mother and Jessie, or strung the rich cowslips
into balls for play. Again he was sketching beautiful
landscapes, or innumerable successions of
herds of cattle, that would not stand still for him ;
or striving after some grand ideal conception, of
which he had formed but a slight fancy in health,
but which now rose before him with all the grandeur
of reality. Again he repeated long pieces of
poetry, which must have faded from his memory in
its natural state, and hymns that Jessie had taught
him years ago. But, best of all, he went through
our Lord's Sermon on the Mount, which he had
learnt on Sunday evenings for Jessie; and then
seemed to have the family Bible before him, and to
be murmuring of the old pictures and gazing upon
them. It was a consolation to Jessie's fond heart
to feel that none but peaceful, happy memories
thronged through his bewildered mind, and that
he did not appear conscious of the burning fever
that was consuming him.

Pynsent came, and entreated his sister to lie
down for a few hours. She consented, upon his
promising to call her if any change took place.
When she left the room, she sent in one of the
servants to watch with Pynsent. It was with difficulty
that this woman could restrain her failings,
but Pynsent insisted upon silence, and she did her
best to obey. He was stoical and firm by nature ;
but at the root there lay feelings of the deepest
kind, and that root was almost laid bare when he
listened to his brother.

On the fifteenth day they all stood around the
bed,  Jessie, Pynsent, and Mr. Barnard, with the
addition of Captain Burford and Mr. Martin.
They were all breathlessly awaiting his death.
The face was almost black; the throat refused
to swallow the teaspoonful of wine that had kept
life hitherto in the body ; the pulse was so rapid
that it could no longer be counted ; the delirium
had ceased, and a stupor had taken its place ; all
that could be done had been done  in vain ; both
doctors said he must die; nothing earthly could
save him; the crisis was past, he was sinking rapidly.


Jessie laid a cloth soaked in vinegar and water
over his temples ; wetted his parched, blackened
lips with wine and water : he opened his eyes  he

looked at her, he knew her  she was convinced
he knew her. She nearly fainted. God only knew
hoar ill and exhausted she felt, but with a supernatural
effort she recovered herself. " With God
all things are possible' she thought.

All that long, weary night, and the greater part
of the following day, he lingered on the verge of
the grave. How exhausted nature sustained herself,
it was impossible to say ; but the torch of life still
flickered faintly  oh, how faintly ! A small portion
of liquid seemed to enter the throat ; it nearly
choked him, but it passed down. They tried more,
almost drop by drop it followed. Oh, the anxious
agony of that next hour !

And then he slept. " Oh, merciful Father in
heaven, look down and bless his slumbers ! ' prayed
his fainting, hoping sister. He slept,  yes, it was
sleep, and not stupor ; breathing, and not panting.
Jessie, who had been watching for the death-hour,
was too excited to watch that sleep. She went out
into the night. The moon and one star were looking
calmly down upon the rambling farm-house,
unconscious of the scene of anxious misery within.
That star ! it was her mother, she was sure ; her
mother watching over her child : he would not
die. She wandered into the fields. How calmly
the gentle sheep slept beneath the skies ! no trouble

for life, no anguished presentiment of death. That
star, how brightly it shone ! Jessie knelt down
beneath it, upon the dewy grass : in the heart of
sleeping nature, animate and inanimate, she knelt
and prayed  to the star, to her mother in heaven,
to her fathers in heaven, to him who was once
with her, and to Him who was always with her.
She supplicated for her brother's life. She had
lost her resignation; if he died, she must die
also.

She pressed her hands upon her forehead; it
was so hot it frightened her. She hurried back
to the house  to the room ; all was hushed as the
grave. Pynsent watched alone. He put his finger
to his lips, and moved towards her : " The pulse
has lessened  there is hope,' he murmured. She
went into the next room ; Captain Burford and
Mr. Martin were there. She looked wild, and
spoke wildly ; she flung herself into her guardian's
arms.

'' Martin, come here, for God's sake!" exclaimed
Captain Burford. feel her; how burning she
is!"

She has taken the infection," said Mr. Martin.

God help them, those two poor men, the guardian
and the uncle ! It was pitiful to see them
weep. Yes, Jessie had caught the fever. It had

VOL. 1. G

been for days raging in ter veins and now it was
at its height. The servants, who loved her to distraction,
got her into bed. They would not tell
Pynsent that night, so Mr. Martin prescribed.

Mr. Barnard sat down to the bureau. He wrote
at the end of the foolscap sheet as follows : 
Half past one, a.m. Jessie has the fever,  the
stay of the family, the hope and comfort of us
all : if she dies, they are ruined. For the love
you have as a brother, come to us. I have asked
you often, when I could give you pleasure,  you
have never come ; will you come now that we are
miserable ? I feel sure that you would save her.
Oh, come at once, for Gods sake ! '

With a trembling hand the large, burly man
sealed that letter : he had scarcely power to do it.
It was four days before an answer could arrive,
and she might be dead before then.

Jessicass fever was not, however, so alarming as
Charley's ; still she was delirious, and her life despaired
of. When Charley was pronounced out of
danger, she had no understanding left to enable
her to praise the Lord for His mercies ; she was
raving of her mother in heaven.

At the close of the third day a posthaste drove
up to the door. The posters were nearly exhausted.
Mr. Barnard rushed from his bureau to the door.

He would not have known that rather elderly gentleman
under any other circumstances, but now his
heart told him it was his brother. He opened his
large arms, and folded him in an embrace that,
at any other time, would have disconcerted him.

'brother, this is kinds he said. "Welcome
home!"

How do you do, James ? God bless you ! "
said Mr. Timothy, as soon as he was freed from
the embrace.

Now for those poor children : let me see
them."

They don't know of your coming," said Mr.
Barnard.

Never mind, there is no time to lose."

Mr. Barnard led the way upstairs. He called
Pynsent out of Jessicass room.

Pynsent, this is my brother Timothy, come to
see Jessie and Charley," he said.

Pynsent started, and the colour rushed to his
face;  the uncle he had so longed yet half-feared to
know, whose reputation as a surgeon was so high.

Uncle Timothy shook hands with him, and with
professional tact and feeling said 

I am come to help you, not to supplant you :
your treatment of your patients has been admirable."


G 2

Pynsent wondered how he could know that.
Will you take me to them ? If they are conscious,
they had better look on me as a stranger ;
if not, it does not matter."

They went to Charley s room. He was asleep ;
his face was deadly pale, but had lost some of the
fearful black hue that had overspread it. Uncle
Timothy felt his pulse.

' AD right here," he said ; ' nothing but nourishment
wanted : what do you think ? "

We have been pouring wine and porter down
his throat, and everything that he can swallow that
has strength in it," said Pynsent.
Good ! " said his uncle.

They proceeded to Jessie. The first words that
greeted them were 

I have tried to do my duty by them. Mamma.
I could not help Charley's dying : it was Gods
will. I see you. Mamma ; I am coming to you."
And then a sweet but excited voice began to sing
a hymn.

Uncle Timothy shook his head. He sat down
by the bedside and looked awhile at Jessie. She
tried to sit up in bed, but fell back again. A tear
started to his eye. He put his hand upon her
pulse, and she looked at him. He had been always
reckoned very like his sister, and some slight perception

evidently crossed her disordered brain. She
seized his hand and held it fast; then, smiling,
again talked to her mother, as if she was quite
near her.

The fever in her cheeks and eyes had given a
surpassing brilliancy to her appearance, for she
had not reached the worst stage of the disease.
Uncle Timothy smoothed her pillow, kissed her
cheek, and having beckoned to a servant to take
his place, left her.

Then he and Pynsent consulted together, or
rather he consulted with Pynsent on what he had
done and meant to pursue.

every goods' said Mr. Barnard approvingly;
and now let me feel your pulse."
Pynsent smiled, and gave his hand.
"You are not well," said his uncle gravely;
and these are things not to be trifled with. I
shall insist on your going instantly to bed. By
timely remedies you may be spared this fever;
without them, you will surely have it."

Pynsent felt his own pulse, and knew that his
uncle spoke the truth. Mr. Martin arrived, and
confirmed it. They told Mr. Barnard that Present
was knocked up by long watching, and that
he must have a quiet night somewhere. Mr.
Barnard had caused his own room to be put ready

for his brother Timothy, and intended sleeping
himself on the sofa in the parlour. Uncle Timothy-said
that he could sleep anywhere, so Pynsent was
ordered to this room, despite his protestations to
the contrary.

CHAPTER VII.

Between two worlds life hovers like a star,

'Twixt night and morn, upon the horizon's verge.
How little do we know that which we are !

How less what we may be! The eternal surge
Of time and tide rolls on, and bears afar

Om* bubbles : as the old burst, new emerge,
Lash'd from the foam of ages ; while the graves
Of empires heave but Hke some passing waves."

Byron.

The sickness at the Grange awoke a feeling of
commiseration and sympathy throughout the whole
neighbourhood. Even persons who knew little or
nothing of the young people who were thus stricken
were constant in their inquiries. It is unnecessary
to state that Captain Burford paid daily visits, and
that the illness of Jessie was a source of the deepest
anxiety and distress to him. It was almost
impossible to keep him from her room or to prevail
on him to return home at night, although he
knew that there was no bed for him at the Grange
and that he was only in the way. His grief was
heightened by a letter he had received from his

son, stating that his health had suffered so much
from the climate of India, and from the hard service
on which he had been engaged , that , unless
he grew much and speedily'' better, he should return
home in a few months on sick leave. The
letter also contained the intelligence of his having
obtained his lieutenancy, and having been promoted
to the Interpret ership of his regiment. He
had always been chary of speaking or writing much
about himself, but the Indian journals had from
time to time reported favourably of him, and his
father knew enough of the Oriental languages to
be convinced that he must have studied very hard
before he could have been linguist enough to be
made interpreter.

Amongst the most anxious and kind of the various
inquirers was Mr. Michelson. It so chanced
that there was a general election, and Mr. Michelson
had determined upon standing for the comity.
Any kind of excitement was life to him, and he
began to tire of the finest pictm'cs and statues,
nay even of the handsomest women, and to pine
for novelty. An election was the very thing to suit
him, and he returned from abroad to see what was
to be done. He was conscious of having lived so
seldom amongst his neighbours and tenantry as to
be little known or cared for by them. With some

of the tact belonging to himself peculiarly and
much of that common to all electioneering, he set
about achieving popularity. It matters not much tous
how he got on generally, but as regards our own
particular friends and acquaintances it does matter
somewhat. Oh, the grapes, peaches, nectarines,
bottles of old wine, best Guinesss porter, and
baskets of flowers that appeared at the Grange,
brought from Michelson Hall, was a sight to be
seen ! How many of these presents were due to
his former admiration of Miss Burton, and how
many to the election, is not for me to determine.
Farmer Barnard was a Tory of the old school ;
Captain Burford a Whig of the old school ; Present
rather inclined to Whiggish of a newer
school, in spite of the red-hot Toryism of all his
family, Aunt Betsey inclusive. Mr. Michelson
did not care much what he was, provided he was
returned as one of the members for Somerset.
He called himself a Conservative, a name then beginning
to be fashionable, as the best means of
uniting Whig and Tory interest. Now, a great
many grapes and bottles of old wine and delicate
attentions were necessary to amalgamate all those
family political differences of opinion into votes fora
Conservative member, especially when, on account
of the fever, he could not canvass in person.

g3

He had plenty of time before him, however, as
the election was not to take place for some months,
and he had a most efficient aid in his very handsome
dashing son, a young cavalry officer of
charming manners.

His presents were received at the Grange with
every feeling and expression of gratitude ; and
most welcome and beneficial they were, to Charley
especially, who was out of danger, but still prostrated
from extreme weakness. Charley might,
perhaps, have gained more strength had his mind
been at rest ; but he had managed to find out, in
spite of all kinds of subterfuges, that Jessie had
the fever, and he was possessed with the notion
that she would die, and that he would not be able
to see her. But it pleased God that Jessie should
not die, neither was she reduced to the same extreme
weakness that had resulted from the fever
in Charleys case. When the crisis was past, and
the delirium had left her, she was able to question
those about her concerning her brothers. The
first person she appealed to was her unknown
uncle. She thought she should be able to bear
to hear the worst better from a stranger than from
one of her own friends.

Your brother Charles is better, my dear," said
her uncle, " and there is every prospect of his recovery."


Jessie clasped her thin white hands, and raised
her eyes to heaven. Her uncle inwardly joined
her in her mute thanksgiving. He saw that she
had not strength to question him farther, so he
said, after a time 

"Pynsent is not in danger; his illness proceeded
as much from anxiety as fever. He has
not lost his senses at all, and though taken down
the last, will probably be well first*

Again Jessie inwardly thanked God, and a flood
of tears relieved her.

Now, my dear," said her uncle, " drink this,
and sleep."

She swallowed a composing draught, and turned
away. Large, full tears rolled from her eyes, until,
like an infant, she silently wept herself to sleep.

Poor child ! poor child ! " said Uncle Timothy,
you have too much upon your young mind, I am
sure."

Strange that Uncle Timothy should have been
the first person to discover this fact. Everybody
else believed Jessie equal to anything, and she
had been so used to do more than she was equal
to, that nobody thought it at all remarkable that
from the age of fifteen to three or four and twenty
she should have been at work, head, heart, an
limbs, from morning to night.

When Jessie awoke from her long and refreshing
sleep,, she found the strange doctor again by
her bedside. She thought it odd that he should
be sitting so quietly at the little round table, reading
by the dim rush light, and that everybody else
should have left her. She moved as well as her
weakness would let her, that she might look at
him. What a quiet, serene face he had, and how
earnestly he was reading ! She gradually recalled
some of the wandering fancies she had been possessed
with in the fever, and dimly remembered
that she had imagined herself tended by her mother;
that mother's face was before her, and in
some way it connected itself with that of her silent
companion. Possibilities and impossibilities presented
themselves to her mind. She made a movement
to attract the attention of the reader; he
was up, and feeling her pulse in a moment.

 Better," he said, with a smile, and sat down
on the bed.

Are you my uncle Timothy ? " asked Jessie,
looking at him very earnestly.

Yes, my dear'' said he, quite thrown off his
guard by so unexpected a question.

I thought so," said Jessie, " you are so like
Mamma ! " and she burst into tears.

My dear, my dear," said Uncle Timothy,

you must not give way. What an old fool I

am

1'

He bent over her and kissed her cheek. She
put her arms gently round his neck, as if he had
indeed been her mother; and he inwardly asked
Him to whom he was used to appeal in all moments
of peculiar hope or fear, to teach him how best to
become both father and mother to the orphan girl,
whom sickness had already strangely endeared to
him. Jessie was much excited. Uncle Timothy
again sat down by the little table.

Do you love this book, my dear ? It is the
Holy Bible. I think you do, from much I have
heard you say when you did not know what you
were saying."

Jessie smiled, and murmured " Yes."

Then I will read to you."

Uncle Timothy had been reading the Psalms.
He was very fond of that portion of Sacred Writ ;
and to many a poor sufferer before Jessie had he
begin with the verse " Yea, though I walk through
the valley of the shadow of death I will fear no
evil, for Thou art with me ; Thy rod and Thy staff
comfort me." He read well, and with feeling.
Jessie's tears flowed more quietly, and at last they
ceased. She clasped her hands and prayed with
the Psalmist.

Whilst they were thus engaged Mr. Barnard
entered ; he paused a moment, and then sat down
by his brother. He was not a pious man, though
a worthy and a kind-hearted one, and had been
accustomed to laugh at his sister as a saint ; but
the visitation in his household had made him ask,
'' Does affliction come from the ground ? " and had
checked several improper expressions and bursts of
passion to which he was accustomed thoughtlessly
to give way. He now listened, almost for the first
time in his life, to the Bible, as if he were himself
a party concerned ; and the words of the king of
Israel entered into his heart, as they have, by
God's grace, entered into the hearts of thousands,
for good.

When Uncle Timothy saw that Jessie was calm,
and thought he had read enough, he took a little
black book out of his pocket, and asked her whether
they should unite in thanking God for His late
mercies vouchsafed unto them. She assented, and
he knelt down. Mr. Barnard did the same. For
the first time since their infancy the brothers knelt
together, and together offered up the same words
of thanksgiving. Short and simple was the prayer
read by Mr. Timothy Barnard, thanking God for
the recovery of the grievously sick and afflicted,
and emphatically did he pronounce the words.

When he concluded with onr Lords Prayer, Jessie's
weak voice joined, and Mr. Barnard's powerful
bass also fell in. If prayer and thanksgiving
be heard in Heaven, assuredly those words have
entered there, and " the fellowship of the Holy
Spirit" is with the three earthly worshipers, to
assist, encourage, and strengthen for ' the race set
before them''

Long before the three invalids were recovered,
their good and kind Uncle Timothy was obliged to
leave them. He had the satisfaction of seeing
them together, however, before he did so. He directed
the preparations in the largest and most airy
of the bed-rooms for their reception, and assisted
in transporting them thither.

Who shall describe the meeting of the brothers
and sister ? The tears, the smiles, the inward
thanksgivings  they who had not expected to meet
again in this world !

It was when all gradually became composed, that
Uncle Timothy was first introduced to Charley, and
that he also named the period of his return to London.
Everybody exclaimed against this proceeding,
but Uncle Timothy was firm. Hearing the lamentations
of the whole party, and knowing them to
be sincere, he said, that, " God willing" (he always
inserted the D. V. when any distant plan was

proposed) " he would eat his Christmas dinner with
themes This proposal caused his brother to rise
and cross the room to shake him by the hand, and
to declare " that one volunteer was worth a hundred
press men," and that he was right glad he had not
asked him this year. He added a clause, however,
to his self-invitation.

I shall bring down Anna," he said, " and, I
believe. Miss Colville, who, Anna tells me, has at
last obtained permission from her parents to spend
her holidays at Fairfield, previously to her sailing
for India. But I must propose another guest."

Tiny !" exclaimed Jessie and Charles in a
breath. " Oh, how nice ! how I do long to see
her ! We know her quite well. Uncle Timothy,
from Anna's description, who dotes upon her."

Will you ask her to bring some of her drawings,
and some of her father's, if she can ?" said
Charles modestly.

That you may take her out sketching, and give
her a fever ?" said Uncle Timothy slyly. " She
may bring them, provided you do not ask her to
draw. The poor child is out of health, and wants
a change, and Mrs. Eveleigh wishes to go and see
some relation or other who does not care to have
Tiny ; and I am sure my niece Jessie will be kind
to the poor fatherless child."

That she will !" said Captain Burford ; " she
is kind to every one'

Here it may be well to say that Mr. Timothy
Barnard's little 'protegee Sophia, or Tiny, as she
had been called by Anna, on account of her slight
small form, had grown up to the age of nine years
under Mrs. Eveleigh's care. Mr. Barnard had
thought of canvassing for her election into one of
the various schools or charitable institutions for
female orphans ; but the idea of making her unfortunate
case public, revolted against him, and he
had allowed her to continue with Mrs. Eveleigh.
Mrs. Eveleigh was a sufficiently sensible woman to
teach her all that she required in her childhood,
and, although not a person of high education, had
a tolerably well-informed mind. Tiny could read
and write, and make certain attempts at ciphering,
but her greatest pleasure seemed to be in drawing.
Surrounded by paintings from her infancy, she had
acquired a love for them, and as Mrs. Eveleigh had
picked up some knowledge of it from her husband,
she fostered Tiny's talent, and the child was in the
habit of drawing, like Charley, for her amusement.
When Mr. Barnard saw this, he procured a master
for her, and she had now been learning nearly two
years, and had made considerable progress.

Anna, too, was getting on in age and accomplishments.

Somehow or other she had made a
complete conquest of her uncle. For instance, in
one of her petulant moments she had given him
to understand that she dreaded the time when she
was to leave her novitiate, and become an actual
teacher in Miss Primmer tones establishment. This
was mere pride ; but Uncle Timothy did not look
upon it in that light, but fancied she was too young
to see things as she ought, and therefore let her goon
year after year a mere learner, and at an enormous
expense. Anna was a great favourite of Miss
Primmerton's, who was fond of her for her own
sake and her nucleus. Miss Primmerton had taken
advantage of Mr. Barnard's kind permission, and
had consulted him more than once. She, like many
of her over worked sisterhood, suffered from violent
nervous affection of the head ; and it was this,
between ourselves, that helped to make her temper
irritable ; for it is hard to teach  remember this, ye
fractious and impatient and obstinate young people
!  when the head is throbbing, and every nerve
in it driving the teacher mad. Uncle Timothy had
been of more service to Miss Primmerton, and had
had more patience with her, than any other medical
man whom she had before consulted : therefore she
had in her turn more patience with his niece. I
do not say this was right, but sone good turn

deserves another ," and Miss Primmerton did not
often meet with real consideration from the friends
of her pupils. She was generally a governess and
nothing more.

She strongly advised Mr. Timothy Barnard tolet
Anna be a teacher in her school for one year,
at least, before she went into a family as governess.
Jessie had given the same advice to Anna during
the Midsummer vacation ; so with much distaste,
the half-year during which her brothers and sisters
were suffering from one kind of fever, she was enduring
another much worse in its way. She continued
to receive lessons from the various masters,
and to give them in turns to the younger pupils 
or rather, she prepared them for the masters. She
hated this, not so much because she distilled helping
the children s because she was now a teacher.
One or two of her former schoolfellows, over whom
she had acquired a certain power in her capacity 0
elder pupil, now looked down upon her in that of
teacher to the younger ones ; and her pride was so
constantly fighting against her propriety, that she
had but little peace of mind.

Louisa Colville used to laugh and tell her that
she wished she was a teacher, if it was only to show
up the impertinence of such girls ; but Anna's pride
of heart was too deep for that; she could only

treat her former admirers with scone and let them
feel, whenever she could, how much more beautiful,
accomplished, and admired she was than they
were.

When Uncle Timothy returned from the Grange,
and went to see Anna, she heard, for the first time,
of the dangerous illness of those she loved. She
had wondered, over and over again, that no letters
had arrived from home ; but had attributed the silence
to every cause but the right one. Now, how
her warm heart was pained when she thought of
what her brothers and her dear sister had suffered
! Her first impulse was to entreat to be allowed
to go home at once ; but Uncle Timothy overruled
this by assuring her that they were all doing
well, and pointing out how near Christmas Alas 
it was then October. The prospect of the journey
home with her uncle, Louisa Colville, and her dear
Tiny, comforted her, and she resolved not to mind
the disagreeable of her life as teacher, but to put
a brave face upon it, and to do her best. This she
really did for three whole days ; but on the fourth
she flagged, thanks to the very simple question put
by one of her former friends, of, " Are you likely
to go as a governess to the Presents or the Bur-tons,
Miss Breton?"

Thus was her own little pride of family turned

against herself, as indeed all pride generally is, in
one way or other. Bnt unfortunately her pride
of beauty was continually fostered. In her daily
walks, at her nucleus, at the very church door,
from the masters, from Mrs. Hicks, from everybody,
she constantly heard the words, "What a
lovely girl !  Can we wonder that vanity swelled
within her young, untutored heart ?

CHAPTER Viii.

How pleasant, when night falls down
And hides the wintry sun,
To see them come in to the blazing fire.

And know that their work is done ;
Whilst many bring in, with a laugh and rhyme,
Green branches of holly for Christmas time !
Oh, the holly, the bright green holly !
It tells, like a tongue, that the times are jolly."

Proctor.

Who shall describe the feelings of expectation and
excitement of the family at Fairfield as Christmas
approached ? Who shall convey an idea of Jessicass
preparations for her various guests,  of Aunt Betseyss
devotion to her toilet,  of Pynsent's anxiety
about the state of the cellar and the general
finances,  of Charley's nervous sensations at the
prospect of two strange young ladies,  of Farmer
Barnard's palpitations at the certainty of frequent
meetings with Miss Burton, the adored of his youth,
and, above all, of Dinah's trepidations at the
influx of so much company ? It was a wonder to
see Jessie, just recovered from her fever, contriving'

sleeping apartments arranging furniture making
mince-meats cutting up sugar, salting beef, examining
hams and tongues , compounding ricci plum
puddings, to be hung up and kept till Christmas
came round again, making cakes, and helping to
bake them, airing bed-linen, seeing to ashen
faggots, looking at pickles, preserves, and elder
wine ; gathering evergreens, sending into the wood
for mistletoe, making up messes for poor peoples
children,  for it was a severe winter, and there
were no end of coughs and colds ; stitching at all
kinds of flannel petticoats, for Christmas presents
for the labourers wives and children ; almost crying
as she ordered certain fat geese and turkeys
that she had reared to be slaughtered ; talking of
pigeon pie, but not having the heart to doom the
birds that came to perch on her shoulder and eat
out of her hand ; scolding Pynsent for doing nothing
to help her ; aiding Aunt Betsey in the manufacture
of a certain pomatum and wash for the
hands, and sitting with Charley whenever she could
find time.

And why should she sit with Charley ? you ask.
Because Charley is still suffering from the effects
of the fever. As is often the case in typhus, it has
left a sad legacy behind it. Nobody knows exactly
where the evil has fixed itself, but for the

present, at least, Charley is almost helpless. He
has a weakness somewhere, which has entirely deprived
him of the use of his limbs. Whether it is
in the spine or in the joints, the doctors cannot
determine, as he suffers no pain; but it prevents
his walking and sitting upright : so he is obliged
to lie down all day long, on an inclined plane,
and to take strengthening medicine, prepared and
administered by Pynsent, who is anxiously expecting
his uncle's arrival, to consult with him on this
unfortunate case. Pynsent himself is not very
strong yet, though he is pursuing his medical
studies con more. He pokes his nose into the
cottage of every poor person who is sick, and has
already gained some fame amongst them. He reads
dry books and long cases all day long, and writes
down the symptoms of the patients he voluntarily
attends, every day, with a view to the future achievement
of his fortunes, and the benefit of the human
race. He intends to wait till Christmas is over,
before he regularly establishes himself in his profession,
and has almost made up his mind, entirely
on Jessie's account, to settle in his native place.
He would give all he possesses in the world to have
a fair start in London, and then to work his way
to fame and fortune ; but he feels that Jessie ought
not to be left at Fairfield to combat with life alone.

and so, like a true-hearted brother, he will stay
near her and help her.

 Christmas-day is on a Thursday this year. On
the Wednesday of the important and happy week,
Charley lies on his back in the ' parlours not like
the famous king, " counting out his money," but
with a round table by his side, absolutely stoning
raisins; whilst Jessie stands in the "kitchen," not
like that kings equally celebrated queen,  eating
bread and honey," but with her arms immersed
in a brown pan full of flour, " making," not eating,
like little Jack Horner, " a Christmas pie." Jessie
is so intent on her work, and is singing so merrily
over it, that she does not hear the stealthy footsteps
behind her, nor see the two men that creep
through the hall into the kitchen. If two of her
senses are thus sealed up, the third, that of feeling,
is speedily opened ; for she suddenly becomes conscious
of being caught in the arms of somebody or
other, and having a hearty kiss imprinted on her
lips.

DonH, Pynsent ! " she exclaims : when she perceives
that it is not Pynsent, but a tall, upright,
sunburnt young man, bearing a certain resemblance
to the Nelson Burford that went to India
eight or nine years ago. She gives a little scream of
joy, blushes very much, and without thinking of the

VOL. I. H

flour, stretches out lier hand, which, equally thoughtlessly,
her childhood-affianced husband takes, and
presses between both his own.

Ha ! ha ! ha ! " shouts Captain Burford ; " nota
warm welcome, but a floury one ! Isn't he
grown, Jessie ? He took me by surprise last night
just in the same way, only I hadn't my arms bare
and all over flour. I'll be bound. Nelson, you
never saw that sort of thing in India."

Jessie had recovered herself, and stood blushing
still, and smiling through certain tears that had
appeared, and trembling somewhat, looking down
into her pan of flour. Nelson glanced at her, and
thought her prettier and more delicate-looking at
five-and-twenty than she was at seventeen. He
had sally made up his mind to meet her with the
utmost friendly discretion  a brotherly shake of
the hand, and nothing more : but that sweet, pleasant
voice that he had loved to hear when a child,
and the dear old hall and familiar house and furniture,
had got over him, and, in spite of himself,
he had given that warm embrace to his playfellow
and friend.

Be it known at once that Lieutenant Burford,
of the Bengal Light Cavalry, has not come homelike
many Indian officers, in search of a wife, butin
search of health, like most of them. Indeed,

he has determined not to marry, and has already-cautioned
his father against his old whim of calling
Jessie his wife, which accounts for the worthy Captain's
silence on that subject at their first meeting,
to him a very difficult matter. Moreover, Lieutenant
Burford intends to treat the warm-hearted
friend of his youth as a friend, and nothing more 
an intention which he is evidently carrying out by
calling her Jessie every second minute, and following
her about just as he used to do. Still I affirm that
he is not what is vulgarly called " in love" with
her, though he loves her very much : but if Jessie is
not " in love" with him, she assuredly never will
be with anybody. To prevent all kind of unnecessary
guessing about the matter, I will confess at
once that she is sincerely attached to him, and has
been all her life  ever since she was born. Some
women are capable of such an attachment  such
women as Jessie  true, single-hearted creatures,
who go about everything with a downright purpose,
and cannot change.

Jessie was obliged just to finish that pie, and
wash her hands, and make herself neat, so she
begged her friends to go and see Charley, and sent
to tell Aunt Betsey to go down quick into the
parlour. But before she had half finished. Nelson
was back again, to tell her that he had seen Peter,

h2

the brother who had only written twice since he
left home  and had five hundred messages and
twenty presents from him to all. That he was the
greatest pickle in the ship, and the favourite of all
his messmates, but under frequent condemnation
of the Captain. That he was every inch a sailor,
and loved his profession next to his sisters ; such
was his expression. That he " meant to come home
some day with lots of prize money, and kick up
such a shindy as never was. That he really
would write oftener if he could, but that there was
so much to do on shipboard, and so much to see
on shore, that he never found time. He told
Nelson to be sure to say that he never forgot any
of them; in proof of which he produced a perfect
bazaar of articles that he had collected at different
ports, all ticketed, and which he desired Nelson to
give Jessie, that she might distribute them as
marked amongst his friends. The Captain of his
ship, the '' Bonne Esperance, told Nelson that he
was the bravest, most careless, hardiest, and most
untameable of all his midshipmen : but that he
would be a capital sailor, and had already shown
great courage and skill on more than one occasion.
He was fond of him, but obliged to keep a tight
hand on him for fear of insubordination. Nelson
ventured to say, that Peter might be done anything

with by kindness and driven to do anything by
severity.

On Wednesday Pynsent was at the Inn with the
car to receive the expected guests. They had
taken the inside of the coach, to the disappointment
of many other passengers ; and as Pynsent shook
hands with his uncle, kissed his sister, bowed to
Miss Colville, and lifted out Tiny, the bystanders
all thought that the family at Fairfield must have
had an influx of fortune, to account for such an
influx of guests. A cart and horse was in waiting
to receive the luggage, which they disposed of
first ; and when the travellers were seated inside
the car, Pynsent took the driving seat, and they
were soon on their way to Fairfield, Anna chattering
for the whole party, in high spirits.

Jessie meanwhile was in a great fuss. Aunt
Betsey was seated in state in the parlour, dressed
for company ; and Charley had begged for a fire in
his bed-room, to avoid the first meeting with the
strange young ladies. It was a fine, frosty day,
and Fairfield looked bright and sunny. Jessie
heard the wheels, and rushed out to the gate.
Anna was soon in her arms. Oh ! such hugging
and kissing ! she quite forgot her politeness.

Here is Louisa Colville,' said Anna.

Oh, I know you quite well !" said Louisa, as

Jessie rather shyly, put out her hand ; " I am so
glad to come and see you/ and herewith she gave
Jessie a hearty kiss ; this was followed by another
from Uncle Timothy. '' And here is Tiny/ said
Anna, bringing forward the shy child, who had
crept behind her.

Jessie saw nothing but long brown curls, for the
little face was bent down. She made her way
through the curls and kissed the sweet pale face :
then took the trembling little hand, and proceeded
to the house.

Here again all was presentation and bustle.
Aunt Betsey curtseyed with much grace. Uncle
Timothy just touched the tips of her fingers; and
there was no outpouring of affection anywhere.
Quite rights' some genteel moralist may say,
we have had enough of kissing for one chapters

Boxes are carried upstairs, whilst the travellers
warm themselves round the hall-fire, whither they
have gone, from the parlour, at Pynsent's suggestion,
who never was  fine in his life, and would
not see his aunt's nods and winks. He thinks
Louisa Colville a very pretty girl, but he does
not think or care much about anything but Physic.
The London ladies are much pleased and surprised
at the large hall and chimney corner, and at the
evergreens with which it is fairly covered, to say

nothing of the fire on the hearth. Anna runs
straight to see Charley, and Jessie directs the
placing of the luggage.

Oh, Anna, this is charming ! perfect Elysium'
said Louisa Colville to Anna as she entered their
room. " It is all what one reads about in books.
India, London, and the country are three different
worlds. And Anna, your sister is much prettier
than I fancied she would be, and your brother
much stiffer. Why did he not shake hands with
me, I wonder ? That formal London bow was too
smart for the country ; and what a grand lady your
aunt is ! She is so like you, Anna. Oh ! it is so
charming, and I am so happy already. Hurrah
for Fairfield, and good bye to Miss Primmerton
and her spectacles ! I never thought I should have
got out of poor Pussy's claws."

I wish I were out of them," said Anna ; " I'll
never go back again as teacher, come what may."

Oh, what is that on the window-sill V asked
Miss Colville, looking frightened.

'' Only one of Jessie's pigeons, little Mousey,"
replied Anna ; ' don't be afraid, we will let him
in ;" and she opened the window, and in flew a
pair of beautiful white pigeons.

The two girls turned their bags inside out for
the crumbs remaining from their travelling stores.

and Miss Colville soon forgot Miss Primmerton,
and her unpacking, in her new delight at such unaccustomed
guests.

Whilst they were feeding the pigeons, Jessie and
Tiny were differently occupied. When the child's
wrappings were taken off, Jessie had time and
opportunity to wonder at her appearance ; she was
so small and delicate-looking, that she scarcely
seemed earthly. The curls that fell over her pale
face, like sunbeams streaking a small white cloud,
were the only living things about her : for her large,
melancholy, violet eyes could not be said to have
life or fire in them ; not, at least, when Jessie thus
looked at them ; they seemed made for tears. She
was dressed very simply and inexpensive, in a
dark brown frock, and plain white trousers ; and
she was particular in having a clean pinafore on,
before she finished her toilet. Jessie looked at
her with pity, and thought how unnatural it was
for a child to be so grave and pale ; so calm and
spiritual and passionless a face is seldom seen in
childhood, and painful when seen : still she was
beautiful, rarely beautiful, in her statue-like quietude.
Her features were small but regular, and
her complexion sparklingly fair,  like Parian marble,
gleaming but colourless. Nobody could tell
why her young face so seldom wore the springtide

smiles of childhood. She seemed happy
with Mrs. Eveleigh who loved her, and whom she
considered her mother. But there was small
congeniality between their two natures. Mrs. Eve-leigh
was a kind-hearted, talkative woman, with
a great taste for fancy needlework and management
: always busy, and anxious that the child
should be employed. Tiny was a secret-hearted,
silent little girl, about whose quiet thoughts Mrs.
Eveleigh knew no more than she did about the
current that ran beneath the river by the little
farm where she was born; though she loved the
calm river, and often dreamt of it, in her small
suburban home. Tiny had learnt to do fancy
needlework and plain needlework too ; had helped
to manufacture articles for sale, as well as her own
garments ; and she had always done her best, and
been generally docile and obedient ; but the only
occupation she seemed to take to with all her heart
was drawing. She had no companions, no friends
of her own age. To say the truth, Mrs. Eveleigh
was rather shunned by the neighbours, she did not
know why, and, with the exception of an elderly
couple who lived next door, and who, like herself,
kept very much to themselves, she had no acquaintances.
Tiny was so shy whenever her
guardian came to see her, that it was impossible to

H 3

say whether she liked him or not : and when she
paid him a visit, Mrs. Hicks always frightened her
so terribly, that she lost all her good manners.
She was more at home with Anna ; but she again
was so merry, and had so many little odd, half-teasing,
half-playful ways, that she seldom ventured
to go much beyond a " Yes and " No, or gentle
questionings about her brothers, sister, and schoolfellows,
even with her.

Shall I brush your hair for you, dear T asked
Jessie, as Tiny took a neat little bag containing a
hair-brush, etc., from her one box.

No, thank you, Maam, I always do it myself,
replied Tiny, and immediately set about arranging
her pretty curls, without the help of a glass.

Now, Tiny," said Jessie, " you must tell me
of all you wish and want whilst you are here. I
am not used to your ways yet, and I am anxious to
know all that will please you most, that you maybe
very happy. '

And is that face so passionless and calm, after
all ? Look now ! Large eyes with big tears in
them,  thin nostrils, and pale lips quivering with
some sudden emotion, but no colour; not the
faintest symptoms of a blush. She looks up, for
the first time, into Jessicass kind, truthful eyes, 
she sees that she means what she says.

Thank you' she breathes rather than speaks.
I should like to see Charley'

'' Charley is not very well' Jessie said looking
surprised ; " but I will ask him to let me take you
to him."

'' Not if he dislikes it' said the child.

Jessie went away and soon returned bearing-charley's
somewhat ungracious consent. She took
the little girl by the hand, and was surprised to feel
that she trembled. Charley was lying on a couch
by .the fire in his bed-room, with a large portfolio
posted up against his knees before him, on which
was a sketch that he had been attempting to finish.
A small table by his side was covered with paints,
pencils, and all kinds of drawing materials. Charley
had felt the same kind of interest in Tiny, that she
had felt in him. Each had heard of the other's one
engrossing pursuit, and the pursuit was the same
in both. This is introduction enough to many
people. Yet Tiny's morsel of a hand shook very
much when she put it into Charley's, and Jessie
almost laughed at their extreme solemnity.

Now you must come down to dinner, Tiny,"
said Jessie, " and by-and-by you shall see some of
Charley's drawings."

Tiny obeyed, once more putting her little hand
into Charley's, but not venturing to look at him as
she did so.

Is he very ill T she asked timidly of Jessie as
they went down the passage.

Jessie's reply was drowned by a shout of laughter
from the " best bed-rooms' She knocked at the
door. " Come in' was the reply. They entered,
and found the two young ladies surrounded by a
whole flock of pigeons. Anna had sent for grain
to please Miss Colville, and Dinah, the bearer, was
standing by, marvelling at the unwonted amusement
of the strangers. Tiny at first peeped behind
Jessie ; but the sight of the pigeons overcame her
timidity, and she was soon in the midst of them.
Perhaps she thought that where such gentle shy
creatures as those soft white birds could fly, she
surely might find a place also. Two or three of
them were soon perched on Jessie's head and
shoulders, and feeding from her hands ; but Jessie
had a kindly feeling for the bed-side carpets, and
Dinah's scrubbed floor, and waited a fitting opportunity
to dismiss them.

Jessie ! Jessie !" whispered a voice near. It was
Pynsent, looking cross. "Are you not coming
down to dinner ?"

The door was wide open, and as he crept along
the passage, and called Jessie, he could not help
looking in. He was amused at the scene, which was
too irresistible to be let alone, in spite of the London

misses. He clapped his hands, stamped his feet,
and uttered a loud " Whoo-oo!' as he went past the
room unseen by its inmates. Off flew the pigeons
in a dreadful fright ; up started Tiny from the floor,
on which she was sitting, and Louisa from her
kneeling posture, both looking scared. Anna shut
the door, and Jessie exclaimed, ' It is only Pynsent ;
he is always getting up some joke or other."

Louisa Colville looked in the glass. Her hair
was decidedly untidy ; but then it was very nice
long glossy fair hair, and it did not really matter,
though she thought it did.

Down they all went to dinner at last, and found
Mr. Barnard in the hall in earnest conversation
with his brother, who had seen Charley, and did
not well know what to make of his case. The
worthy farmer looked serious for him, but soon
brightened up at the sight of so much youth and
beauty as the five damsels came trooping in.

Well, niece Anna, how dee do ?" said he, giving
the beauty such a kiss and such a shake of the
hand as disarranged the curls, and almost put her
wrist out of joint.

Anna was a little bit annoyed, because she did
not want Louisa Colville to see Uncle James just
yet. Oh, that wicked pride of hers ! But Louisa
held out her hand very prettily and shyly when

Jessie introduced hers and Anna was pleased to see
that she rather took to her bluff uncle and bore
the shake better than she herself had done. In
truth Louisa Colville was a girl of strong li Icings
and disliking. She had taken to Anna and she
took instinctively to every person and thing at
Fairfield even to Dinah's red cheeks staring blue
eyes and half open mouth. No, there was one exception
 she did not take to Aunt Betsey.

After dinner, whilst the gentlemen sit round the
table, Jessie insists upon the ladies lying down for
an hour or so to prepare themselves for the evening.
This they do, and are soon fast asleep. Tiny
is the first to awake. She is a nervous child, and
is frightened at finding herself in that large strange
room alone. It is quite dark except for the firelight,
which just peeps in through the curtains.
Her heart beats quickly. She creeps out of bed,
and goes up to the fire. She does not know what
o'clock it is, and has an invincible fear of ghosts.
She is afraid to ring the bell, so she opens the door
and goes into the passage. It is darker still, and
she is frightened to death. Charley's room is next
door. She thinks she sees a light through a crevice;
she taps gently, and is told to come in.
Uncle Timothy and Charley are there.

I am afraid," she said, trembling very much.

Uncle Timothy goes to her, leads her in, and
seats her in an old-fashioned chintz-covered chair
by the fire, where she soon falls fast asleep. Uncle
Timothy looks kindly at her, strokes her hair, and
asks Charley to let her stay with him, then leaves
the room. Charleys pencil is soon employed, and
the little sleeping angel (for such she looks) is
quickly sketched by the young artist :  the pale
face, half veiled by the curls  one hand underneath
the cheek, the other hanging by her side  the feet
curled up on the chair  and the firelight flickering
about her.

Jessie comes in to take her downstairs, but
thinks she looks too tired for romping, so leaves
her to her slumbers ; and Charley knows that the
excitement of Christmas Eve and Christmas games
would be too much for him, so promises Jessie to
dine with the party tomorrow, if they will let him
stay as he is tonight. The request granted, Jessie
quits the silent pair, and Charley begins to put colours
on his picture, until a second Tiny lives upon
the white paper.

By-and-by Tiny awakes. She looks about her,
and seems to ask the usual question on such occasions,
" Where am I ?" When she sees Charley,
she smiles and gets quietly down from her chair,
and stands by him as if asking him to speak to her.

Strange that he too should feel shy ; but he sees
only the artist in the child and thinks her quite
old. At last he shows her the half-finished sketch
he has before him. She is delighted with it ,
and says " What a pretty child ! how beautifully
sketched V She does not know it is her own
likeness.

And now they begin to talk of pictures. Tiny
has the advantage here, for she has studied all Mr.
Eveleighs paintings, and seen those of her drawing
master. Moreover she has visited the National
Gallery, and been twice with Anna to the Exhibition.
She can tell of Landseer's horses, and of
Cooper's cows and sheep, as yet only visions in the
mind of Charley. But Jessie comes again, and
seeing her fresh and sleepless, says she must come
downstairs and see the Christmas sports, so she
wishes Charley a reluctant " good night'' In hops
Anna, and cries, " Charley, you must come down ;
it is wretched to have a Christmas eve without you.
You can lie on the settle or in the chimney-corner
quite snugly, and we should all be so much happier.
There is Jessie running up and down stairs  Present
fidgeting  Uncles Timothy and James wondering
whether it would hurt you  that tall military
Lieutenant Burford begging to say he will
bring you down Captain Burford fussing  and

Louisa Colville hoping it is not on her account ; so
indeed you must comes

Very wells said Charley, looking like a victim,
you know I should like it, only  "

Off goes Anna like a shot ; returns, followed by
Pynsent and Nelson, who gently take up Charley
in their arms, and carry him downstairs. The
girls seize the mattress and pillows, which are soon
arranged upon the settle, and he is almost as soon
placed upon them. The dreaded introduction to
Miss Colville over, he feels very glad that he has
joined such a happy party, and immediately begins
in his minds eye to group beautiful pictures from
the flitting and varied forms about him. Tiny seats
herself at his feet, and seems pleased with everything,
in her own demure, quiet way : and so they
wait awhile, till the veritable sports begin.

CHAPTER IX.

On Christmas Eve the bells were rung ;
On Christmas Eve the mass was sung ;
The merriest night of all the year,
To eat and drink and make good cheer."

All the family party are assembled in the hall ;
all the servants and labourers in the kitchen.
The tables are covered with mugs, cups, and glasses
of all sorts and sizes ; cider and ale are there for
the men and women, wine for the ladies. Cakes,
biscuits, nuts, almonds, and raisins, and all sorts
of sweets, are on the hall-table; cold beef and
bread and cheese on the kitchen table. Filling
both hearths, and threatening to burn to death the
overpowered " dogs,' arc enormous ashen faggots,
bound together by numerous strong dry with.
Already they are beginning to burn, sparkle, and
crackle ; and the assembled party watch earnestly
the with, cup and glass in hand.

Crack! snap! bounce! ' goes one of the with,
loosening the imprisoned faggot at one end, and

giving it up more easily to the flames. " Hip hip,
hip, hurrah ! '' sounds from the kitchen as the labourers
press into the doorway of the hall. " Health
to Miss Jessie and Master Pynsent,  hip, hip,
hurrah ! all the drinking vessels are drained and
Filed again.

Crack ! snap ! bounce ! " goes another, with
Health to Miss Anna and Master Charley,  hip,
hip, hip, hurrah ! " sounds through hall and kitchen,
both now filled promiscuously with all the
guests, rich and poor : cups and glasses drained
again.

Crack ! snap ! bounce ! " goes one of the with
of the kitchen faggot. " Health to Master Peter,
far away over sea, and may he soon come back
again,  hip, hip, hip, hurrah !"  more cups and
glasses drained.

I cannot drink more, thank you,' says Miss
Colville, sitting down, because she can no longer
stand for laughing.

"Oh, you must, replies Pynsent, filling her
wine-glass with hot elder wine, of which delicious,
spicy beverage there is a great quantity.

Crack ! snap ! bounce ! '' again in the hall.
The middle with is parted, and such a bang it
gives that Tiny starts back in affright. " Health
to Miss Betsey Burton and Mr. James Barnard, 

hip, hip, hip, hurrah ! "  the coupling of this pair
is an understood joke, and causes a suppressed
titter.

So fast snap the with that there is now scarcely-time
to empty and replenish the glasses between
each. " Captain Burford and Master Nelson, 
hip, hip,  Mr. Timothy Barnard,  hurrah ! The
strange young Lunnun ladies,  hip, hip,  and all
the good Burton family, and all belonging to
them, here, there, and everywhere,  hip, hip, hip,
hurrah !" and three cheers and musical honours,
and We won go home till morning," led by
Captain Burford and Farmer Barnard ; and enough
hot cider and elder wine to make the whole party
very nearly, if not quite, tipsy.

All the with have cracked, snapped, and bounced,
and the big pieces of wood that they bound are left
to burn out brightly and cheerily on the hearths.
Scarcely have the two divisions of hall and kitchen
found their level, when they are aroused by sounds
of singing out of doors  anything but the "music of
the spheres." All rush into the passage, and open
the door. The bright winter moon almost walks in
she quite looks in  as do some score of men and
women, each bearing pitchers and jugs. And she
might look down on many a worse scene : those
three pretty girls and that sweet child, all laughing

and wondering in fronts with their heads poked
out into the frosty air, and their white frocks shining
in the moonlight ; behind them all kinds of
male forms and faces, looking over their shoulders,
and laughing heartily; above them the leafless
branches of the creeper, covered with hoar frost,
and gleaming, like frosted silver, beneath the moon;
in front, some in light and some in shadow, grotesque
figures clad in all kinds of cloaks and shawls,
red, grey, brown, and yellow, looking and sounding
more like the inhabitants of Pandemonium
than, as I hinted before, of Elysium,  men, women,
and children, with mouths wide open, carrying
vessels, also with mouths wide open, and the
said mouths apparently asking to be filled. They
are singing a Christmas carol with all their hearts;
and as all my readers will not, I hope, be Somers
a verse or two are subjoined for their
edification. It must be premised that the word
"wassail" is accented on the last syllable, and
that the carollers pronounce it very broad, as
wassail."

Wassail and wassail aU round our town ;
The cup it is white, and the ale it is brown ;
The cup it is made of the good old ashen tree,
And so is yovir ale of the best barley.

'Tis our wassail,  'tis your wassail,

And joy be to our joy wassail.

Good master and good mistress a-sitting by the fire,
Whilst we poor souls are out in the mire ;
Pray send out your maid with the silver-headed pin,
To open the door and let us all come in ;
For 'tis our wassail,  'tis your wassail,
And joy be to our jolly wassail," etc., etc.

Whilst these and other verses of a similar sort
were being sung, a little Christmas pantomime was
being carried on amongst the young people. Anna
was leaning in the most graceful of attitudes against
the door-post, and joining heart and soul in the
carol. The rays of the moon on her dark glossy
hair were like a crown ; and the black eyes shot
a volley of incautious, aimless darts out into the
night. Louisa Colville had one hand lightly laid
on her shoulder, and was holding Tiny with the
other. Anna had twined some ivy and holly into
her friend's neatly braided golden hair ; and the two
girls, the brunette and the blonde, contrasted prettily,
as they stood carelessly side by side. Leaning
against the opposite door-post, deep in shadow,
was Nelson Burford, and not far from him Pynsent.
Most people will anticipate me when I say that
they were neither gazing at the moon nor joining in
the singing, but looking very earnestly and admiringly
at their vis-a-vis. Jessie suddenly appeared,
followed by Dinah and one of the men, bearing
pitchers brimming with cider. Whilst these were

being emptied in the various jugs and cans of the
strollers Tiny slipt away to Charley and Nelson
also vanished ; he however soon returned , carrying
a large red table-cloth with a black border, that he
had found somewhere.

You will surely take cold, young ladies he
said; "will you allow me to offer you a very
rough shawl V and, without waiting for permission,
he placed the unusual garment across the
shoulders of the two girls, who, laughing and
blushing, drew it around them.

Quite ci la Paul and Virginians  said Pynsent
sarcastically. "Bless me, how polite you have
grown V he added aside to Nelson.

How very thoughtful of you, Nelson !" said
Jessie, who had been out in the court, helping the
wassailers to cider, and who really looked cold.

He might have given it to you, I thinks
growled the Captain.

Here broke in another carol : 

There was an old man who had an old cow,
And how for to keep it he couldn't tell how ;
So he built up a barn, to keep his cow warm ;
And a drop of good liquor will do us no harm.

Harm, boys, harm ; harm, boys, harm ;

And a drop of good liquor will do us no harm."

Away went the motley group of Christmas
carollers, and were soon succeeded by others, to

whose various ditties the Fairficldites were content
to listen through a closed door, but all of whom
had their quota of cider, thanks to Jessie's liberality.


Please, Miss, here's the singers," said Dinah
confidentially to Jessie.

Ask them into the kitchen, and give them
some bread and cheese and cider," said Jessie.

Soon a tumult of sounds issued from the kitchen
: violin, violoncello, flute, fife, and " all kinds
of music," accompanied by every gradation of
voice.

"We must come out and hear them," said
Jessie, " or they mil not like it."

Oh, by all means," said Miss Colville, clapping
her hands, " I never had such fun in my
life ! Have they anything of this sort in India,
Mr. Burford?"

Nelson was talking to Anna, who was giving
him a most animated description of Miss Prim-merton.
" I beg your pardon," he said, starting
round.

Never mind," said Louisa, and followed Jessie
and the rest into the kitchen.

They were obliged to put ofi" all Christmas gambols
and games to another evening, and to have
supper as soon as the singing was concluded. Here

Nelson's military politeness to the ladies shone
far more brightly than Pynsents. As it was
genuine and inherited from his excellent father,
nobody but Pynsent remarked upon it. He, who
had never found time for the graces himself, was
particularly struck by them in his friend, and did
not fail to comment upon them in various little
asides, both to their possessor and the Captain.

Nelson was a tall, good-looking young man,
with very marked features. He had much softness
of eye, and gentleness of manner ; but there was
an unmistakable determination about his mouth,
that a physiognomist would have called almost
rigid. This was particularly remarkable when he
was thoughtful; and he had a habit of putting
his left elbow into his right hand, and leaning his
cheek upon the back of his left hand, bending his
head, and gazing upon seeming vacancy, that displayed
this particular feature, and a fine Roman
nose, to advantage. It must be confessed that he
was stern and obstinate when his temper was much
tried, as well as when he had quite made up his
mind to anything ; and Jessie knew that mildness
and gentleness alone could ever succeed in changing
his purpose ; at least, so it had been when he
was young, and so she fancied it was still. His
mind once made up, powerful influence was necesse

I. I

say to turn it. She was very much pleased to
find him so polite and attentive to the young
ladies; and although he could not of necessity,
be now always by her side as he used to be when
they were younger, still she frequently met his eye,
and its soft light, and the smile that relieved the
slight sternness of his mouth, always gave her joy.
Perhaps they also occasioned rather an uncomfortable
beating of her heart, usually so regular in
its pulsations ; but this she thought very foolish,
and a thing to struggle against.

They aU slept so well that night, that there was
a regular scramble to get breakfast over in time to
walk a mile and a half to church, on Christmas
morning. Besides, it took longer than usual to
perform the customary greetings. The "Merry
Christmas, and happy New Year when it comes'
went round so often, that Tiny found herself repeating
it softly at breakfast, she not having had
courage to say it aloud. She now mentally addressed
each member of the party, and wondered
what it all meant. She had never known a
Merry Christmas," although she had spent one
or two Christmas days with Anna at Uncle
Timothy. It is sad to think how many children
in that great wilderness of London have never
known a " Merry Christmas," or a " Happy New

Year." Mrs. Eveleigli had considered it a point
of duty to keep Tiny constantly employed ; so that
on such days as were genuine holidays to all she
had been chained to collects, hymns, catechisms,
and Bible and Gospel history, with a view, Mrs.
Eveleigh thought, to her teaching them herself
some day.

Here, everybody was joyous, and she began to
feel joyous too : true, it was a moonshine, not a
sunshiny joyousness  still her little heart was
glad. Everybody was kind and loving to the
child; everybody stroked her soft, silky hair;
everybody tried to make her laugh a good, natural
laugh ; and Mr. James Barnard caught her up in
his arms, and seated her on his shoulder, which
action, though it terrified, gave her a strange sensation
of pleasure. In all probability she would
have been upon his head, had not Aunt Betsey
suddenly appeared, and checked the farmer's playfulness.


How different was that brisk, cheerful walk
through the frost-bitten fields, by the spangled
hedgerows, over the crisp ice, along the hard
turnpike road, to the prim two and two of Miss
Primmerton's "family," when on their way to
church; or the quiet precision of Mrs. Eveleigh,
when she led Tiny by the hand to their nearest

I 2

place of worship ! How the pedestrians amused
themselves by wishing everybody they met the
compliments of the season ; and how they admired
the little stars of laurel-leaves affixed to each pane
in the cottage windows, by bright red wafers !
And the little village church ! Louisa Colville and
Tiny could not fix their attention on the service,
I am ashamed to say, though they tried hard to do
so, they were so struck by the garden of evergreens
around them. Branches of holly and ivy in the
pulpit and reading desk ; more branches in all the
windows ; more standing upright in an incredible
manner from every pew. Tiny longed to pilfer a
bunch, but she had a sort of notion that it would
be sacrilege, so she chased away the wicked desire,
and was rather troubled in conscience when she
heard the commandment, " Thou shalt not steals
Mr. Michelson and his son Chatham sat in a
very bower of evergreens; the big, curtained, escutcheoned
pew, being regularly perforated to admit
the stalks. Chatham was continually glancing
from between two very pompous holly-bushes at
the young damsels in their muffs and furs; and
even Mr. Michelson occasionally rested his golden
eyeglass on his prayer book, to take a furtive look
into the opposite pew. Once or twice Anna caught
his eye, and she could with difficulty refrain from

a smile of greeting. Tiny too, wheii admiring
that large spray of holly and the tempting red
berries just in front of Mr. Michelson, saw that he
was looking at her, and wondered who those fine
gentlemen could be in the great pew.

Even through Uncle Timothy pious mind, recollections
of years gone by crept like a dream at
the sight of the Christmas flowers ; although his
eyes wandered not, and he joined in each response
with the soul as well as the lips. He was a fine
example to his nephew Pynsent, as he knelt down
on the bare boards of the pew, the hassocks being
scarce, and preoccupied ; was he not a fine example
to many men, both young and old, who enter the
house of God, professedly to worship Him, yet will
not condescend to bend their knees before Him,
but sit irreverently, whilst prayers for their eternal
salvation and the good of the whole world are
offering up? Would they dare to sit thus were
they petitioning an earthly monarch for ever so
trifling a grace ? Ah, no ! then why pay less
honour to a heavenly ? Truly God is patient and
long suffering, and He is  provoked every day."

There was one, at least, in that little church,
whose whole heart was in the service  doubtless
there were many  but we thank God that we
know of one. Jessie's mind strayed not that day

from lier devotions. She felt that she had so many
to pray for, so much to be thankful for ; something
to appropriate for herself or others, in every prayer
and thanksgiving of our sublime Liturgy, that she
had no time for wandering thoughts, or space for
the tempting spirit of evil to creep in. And we
have every reason to believe that the petitions of
one so harmless and humble-minded were heard
by Him, who, when on earth, set such a lovely
example of purity and humility.

When the service was concluded, our party
walked briskly home. Captain Burford and Nelson
were awaiting them, they having been to their
own parish church; and roast beef, turkey, and
plum-puddings, were craving to be put upon the
table. With good appetites and good tempers all
sat down to dinner, and nobody envied Mr.
Michelson and his son Chatham s lonely splendour
at the Hall. In the kitchen were some dozen
aged women, pensioners of Jessie's, who were to
partake of the good Christmas cheer. Charles had
a snug little round table close to his couch, and
Tiny insisted, whispering her insistance to Jessie,
upon carrying his plate to and fro, and waiting on
him : she thought a great deal more of his dinner
than of her own. Jessie and Pynsent had given
place to Aunt Betsey and Farmer Barnard, who

took , at their request the top and bottom of the
table, the sides of which were filled by well-assorted
pairs, who had fallen together, nobody
knew how. Uncle Timothy and his dear Jessie,
Captain Burford and Tiny, on one side ; Pynsent
and Louisa ColviUe, Nelson and Anna, on the
other. All looked pleased except Captain Burford,
and he was unusually silent, in spite of Jessicass
efforts at conversation.

Let me give you some bread sauce. Miss Annabella,"
said Nelson.

Why are you so stiff as to call me * Miss ' ? 
inquired Anna, laughing. " You do not call Jessie,
Miss Jessie.

Oh ! because you are so changed, that I cannot
look upon you as the Anna of former times j
whereas your sister is much as she used to be.

And why am I so much more changed than
Jessie ? "

You were a little saucy child when I saw you
last, and now  

"And now  ? ' repeated* Anna anxiously.

She is a very saucy young woman," interrupted
Pynsent, rather snappishly.

Thank you, Pynsent," said Anna ; " you might
at least have let Mr. Burford find that out for himself;
" with a stress upon the " Mr."

' Mr. Burford is not likely to find out anything
unpleasing in connection with Anna Burton/ said
Nelson, with a glance of admiration at Annans
beautiful face.

"Now, Nelson, I hope you are not grown a
flatterers said his father; "I heard what you
said.

I never flatter willingly," replied Nelson,
colouring.

Jessie had also heard what Nelson said, and
seen the glance. Why did she heave an involuntary
sigh, as she perceived that Anna was neither
insensible to the compliment, nor the admiration ?

Christmas-day passed off quickly and happily;
and many plans were formed for the ensuing week,
of which more in their proper places. The gentlemen,
old and young, were very attentive to the
ladies; accompanied them in a long walk, and
made themselves useful and agreeable, as gallant,
wel-mannered gentlemen should do ; only once or
twice had Anna to scold Pynsent for some breach
of politeness to Louisa Colville, and to receive a
Do you think me a dandy, or an exquisite,
Anna ? " from Pynsent in return.

The following morning they were honoured by
an unexpected call from Mr. Michelson ; he came
about the election, but as the gentlemen were out.

he found other matter of conversation for the
ladies. They were variously occupied : Aunt Betsey
was knitting, as usual ; Jessie was giving orders
and superintending household matters ; Anna was
netting a purse ; Louisa Colville was reading, and
Tiny and Charley were busily engaged in drawing
at the little table placed by the couch of the latter.
A large bright fire was burning in the grate of the
parlour where they were sitting, and altogether
they looked as cheerful and pretty a party as could
be. When the greetings and introductions were
over, Mr. Michelson said, addressing Anna 

And is it possible that you can be the child
that I met some years ago ? You are exactly what
your aunt was when I had first the pleasure of her
acquaintance ; and I suppose you are now perfectly
accomplished : you play, you sing, you dance, vous
parlez Franchise Italian. Ah! parla ella Italian?"
" St J Signore" replied Anna, with perfect self-possession.


They then began a short conversation in Italian,
in which Mr. Michelson said he would give worlds
to show Anna the beauties of Italy, and take her
himself to see the magnificent works of art, di quel
pause magnifico. This led to his asking what the
young artists at the side table were about, still in
Italian.

Tiny," said Anna, " bring Mr. Michelson that
old castle you have just been drawing, he would
like to see it. She has drawn it from imagination
entirely, Mr. Michelson."

Tiny looked frightened, but obeyed.

Who is that child ?" asked Mr. Michelson.

A ward of my uncle's," replied Anna.

What is your name, little girl ?" asked Mr.
Michelson, heedless of the drawing she held.

Sophia, Sir; but they call me Tiny, because
Anna thinks me so little."

Sophia what ?" asked Mr. Michelson.

Sophia Eveleigh," replied Tiny, looking terrified
at such repeated questions.

Mr. Michelson seemed satisfied, and the large
vein on his forehead that had started out at the
name " Sophia," decreased at that of Eveleigh.
He took the drawing, and, with a voice of pure
astonishment, asked if it were possible that the child-could
have, herself, done the drawing she presented.

Yes," she said timidly.

And is my old friend Charley as clever as you
are ?" he asked.

' Much cleverer, Sir," replied Tiny, peeping
into his face. For the first time, her eyes met his;
she did not like their expression, but quietly crept
back to her chair, near Charles. Mr. Michelson

followed her, and whilst professedly looking over
Charles's drawing, was gazing fixedly at her.

My nephew is said to have a great talent for
drawing, Mr. Michelson' said Aunt Betsey, " and
he is very anxious to become an artist ; but I am
sure his father would not have liked him to stoop
so low''

Low, Madam ! " said Mr. Michelson, starting
as if from a dream. " Superb ! Brava ! Is that
your sketch of your sister. Sir ?" he exclaimed enthusiastically,
looking for the first time at Charley's
drawing, which was a likeness of Anna. " Self-taught
! You must be better taught. Madam, it
would be a disgrace to let this talent be buried
here. Your nephew must go abroad : he must
study."

Charley sighed.

'' I could give him introductions,  facilitate his
studying,  make him one of the first of English
artists, or I am no judge of talent."

Charley lifted himself up on his couch, his face
flushed with sudden joy.

Oh, could you?" he exclaimed; " would you?
will you ?"

' I believe I could and would assist you," said
Mr. Michelson, gazing with admiration on the
lovely portrait.

The colour again faded from Charles's cheeks,
as he suddenly remembered his seemingly incurable
weakness. Mr. Michelson perceived it, and
remembered that he had heard of his never having
recovered from the fever.

We will talk of this another day," he said ;
perhaps you will now show me some more
sketches."

Anna rose and produced a rough portfolio, ftdl
of drawings, which she displayed to Mr. Michelson,
one after another, and his genuine love of the art,
andperfectconnoisseurship,enabledhimtoappreciate
their different merits. There were some of Tinges
amongst them, equally clever, but in a different
way. Charley s were all from nature,  hers either
copies or imaginative sketches, as she had had no
opportunities of studying from nature. Mr. Michelson'
s love of the beautiful was called forth in all
its bearings. Here stood Anna, her graceful figure
bending over the table by his side; there Tiny,
whose pale spirituality troubled him; and here
again the tokens of great natural genius in paintings
of no mean beauty. Anywhere else, Louisa
Colville would have attracted him, but she sank
into mediocrity beside the loveliness of her friend.

And the gipsy, Anna, knew her power. She
perceived that her w omauly charms had completed

the conquest that the childish graces had begun,
and she was proud to have made a temporary slave
of the great Mr. Michelson, though she did not
display her satisfaction.

After some general conversation about the election
and canvassing the ladies, Tir. Michelson took
his leave, and Anna was ringing his praises when
Uncle Timothy and Pynsent returned from their
walk, to undergo a repetition of his sayings and
doings.

CHAPTER X.

On blithesome frolics bent, the youthful swains,
Wlule every work of man is laid at rest.
Fond o'er the river crowd, in various sport
And revelry dissolved."

And as they sweep
On sounding skates, a thousand different ways,
In cu-cong poise, swift as the winds along,
The then gay land is maddened into joy."  Thomson.

On the following Monday Jessie and Pynsent
left home immediately after breakfast, and all
Anna's curiosity could not find out where they were
going. As they walked quickly on, their voices
sounded cheerily through the frosty air, and it was
evident they were bound on no unpleasant errand.
In about half an hour they reached a smart gentleman's
house,  a house, at least, built some hundred
yards off the road, and enclosed by shrubs
and iron palings. It was something like one of
the many "Citizens' Boxes" near London, and
evidenced more of wealth than taste.

They walked up a short drive, rang the bell, and

asked if Mr. Skinner was at home. They were
shown into a room originally intended for a library,
but converted into an office, by means of innumerable
parchments and papers, Here, at a large
desk, sat a very little shrivelled-up man ; his skin
looked like one of his own parchments, and his
eyes like two little mice, eating their way through
it. He was not a very old man, but the wrinkles
in his forehead, and about the corners of his
mouth,' might have been the furrows of a century's
ploughing.

How do you do, Miss Burton ? how do you do,
Mr. Pynsent?" he said, expressing himself very
slowly, and apparently with difficulty. " You are
the most regular paymasters I have  always to the
day : if your father had been like you, debts would
never have accumulated as they did''

Pynsent took a leather pocket-book out of his
pocket, from whence he drew a large packet of
bank-notes.

' There are fifty pounds for the last half-year's
interest," he said, placing a portion of the notes
before Mr. Skinner.

Thank you," said Mr. Skinner, slowly counting
and examining the notes. Finding them satisfactory,
he wrote a receipt, acknowledging the half-year's
interest on two thousand pounds at five percent.

Pynsent took its placed it in his pocketbook,
and again began counting bank-notes, whilst
Mr. Skinner looked on with a pleased astonishment
in his twinkling eyes, as if some unexpected
good luck were happening to him.

Now, Mr. Skinner," said Pynsent, '' I have
the pleasure of paying you two hundred pounds,
in part of the principal, which will reduce our debt
to you, for the money you were good enough to
lend my father upon mortgage on Fairfield, to
eighteen hundred pounds, and the annual interest
to ninety."

Mr. Skinner opened his eyes with wonder, as he
took the roll of bank-notes, and said 

How is this, Mr. Pynsent?  how is this ? have
you had a legacy left, or stepped into a good profession?"


'' My sister has managed to put by from twenty
to thirty pounds a year, for the last eight or nine
years, and you will soon find that the two hundred
are thus raised without legacies."

Mr. Skinner looked up from the notes he was
counting, at the smiling rosy face of Jessie ; he
contemplated her so inquiringly, that she blushed,
and almost laughed, as she said 

Oh, Mr. Skinner, I assure you Pynsent has
saved as well as I. He put by something every

year out of his small allowance in London, and if
he had been at home when the hundred pounds
were ready we should have brought part of the
money before.

You are a wonderful young woman's said
Mr. Skinner very slowly, giving emphasis to each
word. " Here is a stamped receipt , and now you
must come and take something.'

Oh no ! we have only just breakfasted, thank
you," said Jessie,

By all means, if you please, Mr. Skinner''
said Pynsent ; " a frosty walk, and a hasty breakfast
before it, have given me a second appetite."

Jessie looked reproachfully at Pynsent, who
smiled knowingly at her in return. Mr. Skinner
asked them to follow him, and he led them into
a good dining-room, where were the remains of
breakfast ; that is, one teacup and saucer, a small
teapot, and two empty basins.

"My children are just gone to school," said
Mr. Skinner ; " they would have been very glad to
have seen you. Miss Jessie : they often talk of you,
and say how kind you are to them."

Jessie had no idea that she had ever been kind
to them.

Mr. Skinner rang the bell, and ordered refreshments.
The servant stared. She went away however,

and returned with some bread and cheese, and
a small portion of butter. Mr. Skinner felt for
his keys, and left the room; soon after, a little
jug of cider appeared. He then carefully unlocked
the sideboard, and produced a few dry biscuits and
a nearly empty decanter.

You will understand. Miss Burton," he said,
why I am obliged to lock away these things myself
: servants are not to be trusted with sweets or
wine."

Pouring out half a glass of wine, he offered it to
Jessie, together with the biscuits. She declined
both, but on his pressing her very much, took a
biscuit, which she found it impossible to eat. Present,
on the contrary, seemed to be seized with an
unusually voracious appetite and an uncommon
thirst. Not only did he drink Mr. Skinners health
in one glass of wine, but he toasted his children in
the remaining glass, which emptied the decanter.
Then he thought it necessary to try what kind of
cider ]mr. Skinner's apples made, and found that
as they made very fair cider, he would do the jug
the honour of emptying it, pledging Mr. Skinner
gravely as he did so. The small piece of butter
soon disappeared, as he laid it thickly on the bread,
and ate it with cheese, telling Mr. Skinner that he
liked to be economical, and therefore made one

piece of bread do for both butter and cheese.
When he had got through as much as he could of
these viands, he tried the biscuits, but here he evidently
came to a stop. He coughed violently, and
saying that it was so odd that dry biscuits always
caused a tickling in his throat, he drank the remainder
of the cider. Jessie tried in vain to catch
his eye. He would eat and drink, although she
knew that he had never drank in his life before
at so early an hour. Mr. Skinner glanced in a
troubled way at his diminishing edibles, and anon
with an inquisitive twinkle of the eye at Jessie.
He scanned her well, and appeared to have an
agreeable impression of her.

And you really saved that two hundred pounds
out of your small property. Miss? You are an
honour to your family." This he repeated more
than once, until Jessie began to feel uncomfortable.
She asked about his little girls, and he said
that they had gone sadly to waste since the death
of his wife. He questioned her closely concerning
the expenses of her housekeeping, to which Present
answered that she was really so very stingy,
there was no living with her ; a fact that accounted
for his doing such credit to Mr. Skinner's good
cheer. Mr. Skinner said, laying great stress on
each separate word 

Well donc Miss Jessie ! well done , Miss
Jessie ! " and proceeded to assure lier that if lier
forefathers had done the same,, she and her brothers
and sister would be rich people now.

At last Pynsent had wished Mr. Skinner his last
merry Christmas and told him that he would
do himself the pleasure of lunching with him again
shortly and Jessie had touched the tips of his bony
fingers and they were fairly out of the gates.

Now, Jessie, I declare I can walk no further,"
said Pynsent ; " I think I shall go back, and dine
with old Skinner."

What is the matter with you, Pynsent ? you
certainly are out of your senses."

That hard cheese and sour cider will be sure to
give me an apoplectic fit : but didnH I do the old
sinner? Why, Jessie, if he had but turned his
head, I meant to pocket the remainder of the loaf :
I really could not eat it. Hurrah ! The first meal
that anybody ever got out of him. Nobody ever
ate too much before in his house. How Captain
Burford will enjoy the joke !"

Ah, but," said Jessie, " the children and servants
will suffer for it."

I never thought of that, upon my word. Well
give them a dinner this Christmas instead. Only
to think of that old fellow's father having been

bailiff to our grandfather, and the pair having got
rich upon our losses ! "

Here a discussion ensued upon parsimony and
prodigality.

What carriage is that coming up our roads'
interrupted Jessie : " there  close by the turnpike ?
Isn't Nelson driving ? Yes, it is a fly ; what can
be the matter?"

They hastened to meet the vehicle, and to their
astonishment found that it contained Charley and
Tiny.

Oh, Nelson, how kind and thoughtful of you !"
exclaimed Jessie, giving Nelson a glance of genuine
pleasure and gratitude.

He was determined that I should not finish
my sketch today," said Charley, laughing, sand
took me up in his arms, paint all over, and brought
me here, on this mattress, as comfortably as possible."


And said there was room for me," whispered
Tiny, " and I like it so much !"

Now, Jessie, you squeeze in opposite the little
one," said Nelson, " and Pynsent can walk back,
and escort the other ladies, who are just started
with Mr. Barnard. My father is waiting, and the
moor is full of people."

Jessie got in, feeling great admiration of Nelson,

and delight at his being more friendly in his
manners than he had been the previous day.

They soon arrived at the Captain s house, and
were in due time followed by the rest of the party.
Charley was first snugly settled in a large chaise
longue by the library fire, with a variety of papers
and magazines before him, and told to ring if he
wanted anything ; and then the Captain's preparations
began. He had procured a quantity of list
from all the tailors and sempstress in the town,
and he told the young men to twist it round the
feet of the ladies. The ladies blushed and laughed,
and the gentlemen declared themselves " willing'

'snow Jessie, my dear, you are the eldest'
said the Captain ; " come. Nelson."

Jessie put forth her foot, clad in a large, sensible
pair of thick boots ; and a very tidy foot and ankle
it was.

I think you had better let me do it myself.
Nelson'' she said ; but Nelson insisted, and succeeded
in twisting the list round the foot, and
finally pinning it securely.

Now you won't slip on the ice," said the Captain.


Anna and Louisa's feet were simultaneously extended,
and similarly operated upon by both the
young men. Nelson admired Anna's pretty little

foot, but agreed with the Captain in thinking her
boots too thin for winter.

You would do for Iceland, Miss ColviUe,"
said the Captain ; " those fur boots and that muff
and fur cape would be just the things for a Russian
winter, and are almost as good for such a day as
this on our moor. Ah, there is the pretty little
foot ! Come to me. Tiny, and let me dress it up.'

The Captain took Tiny on his knee, and carefully
wrapped her boots in list.

Oh, you cold little mouse ! ' he said ; " you
are not half wrapped up. Nelson, tell Jane to bringdown
that big cape lined with fur.

By-and-by Tiny was scarcely to be seen, thanks
to "the big cape lined with far, which fairly covered
her up ; and Charley longed to make a picture
of her little pale face peeping out from her
curls like a white rose-bud from its leaves. Miss
Burton made rather a point of trimming her own
boots, but Nelson overcame her modest scruples ;
and at last they were all ready, and all rough-shod.

Here are skates for you, Pynsent, said Nelson,
" and mine are in the arbour, with the chairs'

Good bye," said Tiny to Charles, as if she
were never going to see him any more.

They went through the back door and down a
large garden, that was very pretty in summer, but

now covered with frost. At the bottom of the garden
was a summer-house, from whence Nelson procured
his skates, and whither he called Pynsent to
help him to drag forth a large armchair. Across the
legs of this chair he had caused two pieces of sharpened
iron to be placed, in the shape of skates, and
bearing the article triumphantly along, they proceeded.
At the bottom of the garden ran a river, or
rather stood a river, for it was hard frozen. Over the
river was a little rustic bridge, which led our party
to as gay and original a scene as England could
produce. They entered what was generally an
immense moor, stretching as far as the eye could
reach on all sides. It had been under water during
late floods, and was now a huge sheet of hard
ice, smooth and slippery as glass, save where skates
had formed whimsical figures on its surface. Such
a frost had not happened within the memory of
man, and only once before did any one remember
to have seen the moor frozen.

The full, broad, bare-faced winter sun is pouring
a flood of pale dazzling light upon the ice-field,
which gleams and spares, but does not melt at
his glances  very much like a cold-hearted flirt,
who receives, without apparent return, the adoration
of a lover, and is unmoved by his devotion. Many-coloured
dresses of smart ladies and children

spring up like flowers upon the plain, and contrast
prettily with the sparkling ice on which they
slip and slide about  and gentlemen in skates flit
here and there, literally cutting through sunbeams
above and below, and looking in the far distance
like motes at play. Here noisy children are
making long slides on the ice and rendering it
dangerous to the wall<Lers, whilst their merry voices
ring through the frosty air as they plump down in
all kinds of unseemly postures in the midst of their
play ; there a luckless and unpractised skater maybe
seen seated in undignified attitude, with his legs
in the air ; whilst the red-cheeked damsel, who is
laughing at him, and who is not provided, by a
gallant sailor, with list for her feet, suddenly finds
herself prostrate at his side amongst the shouts of
her companions. Yonder a group of old and young
are helping one another over a particularly difficult
place, and treading gingerly as if each step would
be their last, whilst near them some three or four
unprotected females" have fairly come to a stand,
afraid to proceed at all.

When our little party came upon this frozen lake
they paused awhile to look about them, and to
wonder where such numbers of people of all ranks,
ages, and sexes could have come from. It was
almost as large a fair as that on the Thames in the

VOL. I. K

time of the Great Frost. Uncle Timothy and Tiny
were decided cowards, and the rest were obliged to
encourage them onwards at every step, when they
began to move. As they crept along, literally
feeling their way," they were accosted by friends
and acquaintances in endless succession, all too
nervous about their safe footing, to pause long for
conversation. Nelson and Pynsent had donned
their skates, and were gliding on quietly behind
the armchair, that slid along as glibly and invitingly
as possible.

Who will have a slide m our sledge ?" asked
Nelson, addressing the ladies.

Each was too timid to begin.

Let me set the example," cried Pynsent. "Now
Nelson, off with you !"

Pynsent got into the chair, and off it flew, like a
bird, guided by Nelson from behind. It was something
new, and everybody stopped to look on. Nelson
was a famous skater, and had been practising
the chair privately for a day or two, so he pushed
it onwards as easily as possible.

I am to have half the profits," exclaimed a
young man skating up to Nelson. "It goes
famously, Burford. How daye do ? Good morning,
Mr. Burford. Will you accept the services of
another rein-deer?" and he put himself side by

side with Nelson at the back of the chair, and they
all three went on together, until they returned to
the original starting-point.

Now then," said Pynsent, getting out, " who's
afraid ?''

How dVe do. Captain Burford T' said the
stranger, shaking hands with the Captain. ' Will
you introduce me'' he added, glancing at the
ladies.

'' I don't exactly know," whispered the Captain 
it is dangerous."

"Where did you collect so much beauty? pray
introduce me."

Allow me to present Mr. Chatham Michelson,
ladies : I beg your pardon, Captain Michelson.
Miss Colville  the Miss Burtonss  Mr. Barnard,
the brother of an old friend of yours, and tenant of
your father's."

Captain Michelson bowed to the ladies, and held
out his hand to Uncle Timothy, saying that he was
delighted to make his acquaintance. Uncle Timothy,
in his surprise at being expected to shake
hands, forgot the ice and slipped, but Captain Michelson
held him up dexterously, in short almost
caught him in his arms. This excited the risible
faculties of Anna, who burst into a hearty laugh.
Hers was such a ringing, merry laugh, that it sounded

k2

through the frosty air like a peal of distant bells ;
and in spite of her aunts displeased countenance
it rang on, until Captain Michelson had safely
landed Uncle Timothy again, and recovered his
own equilibrium, by which time everybody else was
laughing. Captain Michelson caught Anna's eye,
and was infected by her merriment. Indeed the
white teeth, shining beneath the red lips like pearls
set in rubies, had laughter in them ; to say nothing
of that bright black eye which seemed to shoot
sunbeams.

I have a great mind to upset you, Anna''
said Uncle Timothy.

Then we should surely fall together, Uncle,"
replied Anna.

Now, Miss Colville, will you take the chair ?"
said Pynsent ; " we shall lose our fare if we stand
laughing any longer."

I am half afraid," replied Louisa, ' but I will
try, if you will promise not to upset me."

We promise, we promise," cried the three
young men simultaneously ; and in a second the
chair and its attendants were careering about, to the
great admiration of everybody.

What a handsome young man !" said Uncle
Timothy, as Chatham Michelson shot over the ice,
now, like his companions, impelling the chair, and
now skating by its side.

So thought the ladies, and so must most people
of taste have thought.

Back in due course of time came the chair in
triumph. Groups had formed to watch its evolutions
and the Burtonss were joined by many other
fair damsels, who hoped to have a jpusli in so delightful
a machine.

Now, Aunt Betsey," said Pynsent, " you must
try ;" and after some pressing. Aunt Betsey was
whirled away.

Captain Michelson came in contact with some
friends, and stopped to speak to them. The chair
went on without him, and before he came up with
it again, Anna was seated in it, Pynsent pushing,
and Nelson at her side.

Oh, it is delightful !" said Anna, as she looked
from Nelson to Captain Michelson ; " how could
you have thought of such a thing ?"

"All done upon mathematical principles, I assure
you'' said Captain Michelson. " Was it not,
Burford ?"

" Three male Graces around a female Apollo,"
said a voice near. It was Mr. Michelson, senior,
and Anna thought that Chatham looked vexed
when he saw him.

This was a particularly long ride, or drive, or
slide, or whatever you may be pleased to call it.

and a very merry one for Anna did nothing but
talk and laughs and her swains were not backward
in joining her.

"Your turn now, Jessie' said Nelson, when
they suddenly came across their friends, who had
changed quarters.

' Take Tiny and this little girl first' said Jessie ;
they will like it so much, and can go together''

The other little girl was a small Skinner, that
Jessie had found shivering and crying with cold,
beside a little maid-servant, with an equally small
sister by her side. She had taken possession of the
pair, and told the servant to run about and slide.
The children were borne oflP, clinging closely to one
another and the chair ; but they soon lost Chatham,
who managed to find himself talking to Louisa
Colvdlle, when the much-admired chariot drew up.
Jessie had another little Skinner and some half a
score of young ladies to propose.

I tell you what it is, Jessie," said Nelson, " the
chair is my own particular property, and if you will
not get into it next, nobody else shall."

Nelson looked resolved, and Jessie obeyed, stipulating
however for the small Skinner on her lap,
to which Nelson rather gruffly consented.

You will want all hands with a double load,"
said Captain Michelson, starting the chair and

beginning to talk to Jessie,, as if he were quite at
home with her. " I know you very well by report,
Miss Burton. Poor Miss Rutherford met you
once or twice at different cottages, so she told me,
and spoke of you with much regards'

"Where is she now?" asked Jessie. "I liked
her very much."

Nobody seems to know," said Chatham ; " she
went away suddenly, and has never been heard of
since, I believe."

It was now Nelsonss turn to disappear, beckoned
for by Mr. Michelson, pere.

Will you kindly lend your chair for Miss
Erskine? she is dying to try it; she is with Sir
Thomas Mansfords party,  a great heiress, so you
had better throw a cast for her. Tell Chatham
that I want him."

Off flew Nelson.

Michelson, your father wants you."

Then he can't have me just at present," was
the dutiful reply.

He wishes us to give some Miss Erskine a
turn ; or rather Miss Erskine wishes it, or both,
said Nelson.

Very likely, but let her wait," said Chatham
drily, and went on talking to Jessie.

' You done want me any longer," said Pynsent

when they stopped again ; "I am tired of skating'
and he began to unbuckle his skates.

'' Nonsense, Pynsent ! ' said Nelson ; "done give
up''

''Oh ! I '11 begin again by-and-by ; but I am not
going to run after Mr. Michelson's heiresses, nor
to skate after them either."

Here Mr. Michelson appeared. After speaking
briefly to those around, he repeated his request.

'ewe will return for those other young ladies
you mentioned, directly," said Chatham, addressing
Jessie. "You had better get in, father, and
we will pilot you over."

Away went the chair, with Mr. Michelson
therein, a good half-mile across the moor, to
where a party of very well-dressed ladies and gentlemen
were standing. Bows and introductions
passed, and Miss Erskine was immediately satisfied.
She was rather a handsome girl, but very
stout. The " wheels of the chariot " certainly
tarried " somewhat, but Miss Erskine was so
charmed with their motion that there was no getting
her out of it.

One turn more ! one turn more ! " was the
young lady's cry, until at last Captain Michelson
and Nelson fairly halted before her party. They
were then obliged to do the civil to one or two

more ladies, but gave them as short rounds as possible,
their centre of attraction being evidently in
some other part of the plain, whither they went
as soon as they could with propriety do so.

The Captain (we call Captain Burford the Captain,
par excellence J because we look upon him as
our especial captain), he, meanwhile, Uncle Timothy,
and Pynsent, had been escorting a number
of ladies over the ice, and watching the various
amusements that were going on. They had set
Tiny and the two little Skinners to slide, and had
slidden themselves to show them how. The Captain
had had a tumble, and Uncle Timothy had
laughed at him, in payment of his laughter on a
similar occasion. Anna had found the ice so irresistible,
that she had been sliding too, reminded of
her childish days, when she and her twin brother,
Peter, used to slide upon the pond at home. Poor
Peter ! where was he now ? Louisa Colville had
been somewhat scandalized by her friends performance,
and had looked round to see if there
were any other people near, but found that they
were tolerably private. Just as Anna was in the
middle of a triumphantly long slide, however, up
came the chair, and when she finished, she ran behind
Uncle Timothy to hide her blushes : not but
that she was almost, if not quite, as tall as her uncle.

k3

Now Miss Annabella, we have caught you in
the acts said Nelson, himself a little scandalized,
for he had most strict notions of female propriety,
"and you shall be punished by having the very
last and worst performance on our stage. Would
you like one more whirl before the sun fairly goes
away?

Was anything ever more lovely, either in nature
or art, than Annans face, as she came smiling from
behind her uncle? Impossible. Her cheeks, made
brilliant by exercise, frost, sunshine, and blushes,
were brighter and softer than the " red, red roses
at daybreak. Her jet black hair, somewhat disarranged
by her exertions, half covered, foliage-like,
those "red, red cheeks' and the eyes, like two
bright, wandering butterflies as they were, glanced
down upon them, just touching them with their
soft hair. Aurora never stepped into her car at
morning, more radiant in beauty and bewitching
in grace, than did the half-abashed, half-conscious
girl into hers. Alas, that she should know her
power ! But how can she help it ? Look at every
individual about her, and see the glances of admiration
in every eye.

"Come, Tiny," she said, "you must have one
turn with me''

They placed the child on her lap, and she encircled

her with one arm, whilst she held the elbow
of the chair with the other hand. There was a
piece of board for the feet, so she was quite at her
ease.

That girl will be ruined said Lady Sandford
to Mr. Michelson ; " she is really too beautiful to
be thrown upon the world and her own resources,
as I hear she is to be."

Mr. Michelson put up his eye-glass, and did not
appear to be particularly pleased when he saw his
son Chatham in animated conversation with the
beauty, and Nelson and he both drinking in all
kinds of feelings with her sparkling glances. They
were so much occupied in listening to her merry
sallies, that they did not perceive the top of an old
post, that projected about a foot above the ice, on
one side, or Mr. Michelson s party on the other.
Suddenly one of the slides on which the chair was
placed, struck violently against the post, and such
was the force of the concussion, that Tiny was
thrown out, almost at the feet of Mr. Michelson,
and the chair upset, with its burden, on the ice.

Now all was terror and confusion. The two
young men assisted Anna to rise, who, if not seriously
injured, was hurt by the fall, and unable to
move for some minutes. They placed her gently
on the chair, and she tried to laugh off the accident,

but there was an evident longing, on the
part of her mouth, either to cry or groan. However,
she was soon diverted from her own pain by
a buzz of voices in consternation near her. She
looked round, and the young menes glances followed
hers. They had all forgotten Tiny for the
moment. Now they saw her in Mr. Michelsons
arms, apparently lifeless, and Lady Mansford and
Miss Erskine unfastening her bonnet, and stanching
blood that was flowing from her temples.
Anna went to her, despite her pain, which was
great.

"Tiny, darling's she exclaimed, "are you dead?
Have we killed her ? Oh, Mr. Michelson, for heaven's
sake tell me !''

I think she is only stunned," said Lady Mans-ford
; "do not be alarmed." t

As to Mr. Michelson, he was almost as pale as
the child he held in his arms.

You had better put her at once into the chair,"
said Nelson, " and take her to our house. Anna,
do you think you can carry her ? for you too ought
to get back at once."

"Oh yes!" said Anna, the tears rolling down
her cheeks.

They put Anna into the chair, and Mr. Michelson
laid the child half-reluctantly in her arms.

"Will you find Mr. Burton, or Mr. Timothy
Barnard, Mr. Michelson said Nelson; "they are
both here. Send them to my father s at once.
Now, Chatham, gently but swiftly .

They were soon at the bottom of Captain Bur-fords
garden. The young men were obliged to
take off their skates, which occasioned some delay.
Nelson had done first, so taking Tiny, still senseless,
in his arms, he ran up the walk to the house.
Chatham offered his arm to Anna, and they followed
slowly. She had slightly sprained her ankle,
and pain and fright had chased all the colour from
her cheeks. Thus they reached the house.

CHAPTER XI.

Love at first sight, firstborn, and heir to all.
Made this night thus. Henceforward squab nor storm
Could keep me from the Eden where she dwelt."  Tennyson.

Mr. Michelson wished Lady Mansford and her
party a hasty good-morning, promising to see them
again at dinner-time, and hurried off in search of
the doctors. He felt a sudden and unaccountable
interest in the fate of the child. As she lay, like a
wounded dove, motionless at his feet, and afterwards
in his arms, feelings had entered into his
soul that had never found a place there before.
Hitherto his love had been passion; his admiration
self-gratification ; his friendship mere temporary
sensation : all had been ' of the earth
earthy' Even his paternal sentiments had been
those of gratified vanity, if his son did well and
was admired ; of angry pique, if he did ill and was
evil spoken of. Now the first seed of some heavenly
flower was invisibly sown in his heart ; he felt it
germinating quickly. He looked on the pape.

stricken child and would have risked his being,
for the moment , to recall the poor lamb to consciousness.
When he had once seen her before,
he had admired her tender beauty, but now he
loved her appealing innocence and crushed sweetness.
He went hither and thither, until he found
the Burtonss ; cursing the slippery ice, the chair,
the folly of the young men, the very attractions of
Anna, to which he had himself bowed.

From the sublime to the ridiculous " we must
now descend ; the " step ' is taken to see the various
efforts of Captain Burford, Uncle Timothy,
Pynsent, Mr. Michelson, Aunt Betsey, and Miss
Colville to hurry across the ice. Jessie, active by
nature and habit, has soon outstripped them, and
reaches the garden without any great drawbacks ;
but they seem to find slips and slides at every step.
Poor Uncle Timothy, whose ardour is the greatest,
next, perhaps, to that of Mr. Michelson,  is the
slowest to proceed, and must have been twenty
times on his nose had not Pynsent been near to
help him up ; it was a decidedly painful position
for two doctors hastening to an insensible patient.
Then the list came off Aunt Betseyss shoes, and
she could not venture to stir a step until it was
put on again. Mr. Michelson, out of all patience,
went on before, and had made some progress when

lie thoughtlessly stepped on one of the long slides
left by the boys, and fell, or rather sat, down
somewhat majestically for so portly a personage.
Once down on this most glassy slide, he
could not get up again, and was sprawling, with
hands and feet slipping onwards, and again cursing
all hard frosts, when the rest came up to him.
Louisa Colville and Pynsent where trying to smother
a laugh, which would force itself in spite of Tiny,
when Aunt Betsey, condoling with Mr. Michelson
and forgetful of herself, slipped in her turn,
and, catching hold of that gentleman just as he
was managing to rise, pulled him down again.
Gravity fell with them, and Captain Burfords
loud, hearty laugh was echoed by the three others,
to the great disgust of the prostrate pair, who however
were compelled to join in it.

They all reached the house at last, and found
Tiny already restored to consciousness, lying on
Charley s chair, who, to the astonishment of everybody,
was sitting by her side. Jessie was bathing
her temples, and following up the remedies that
Charley had begun before she came. Sudden fear
had done for Charles what extreme weakness and
nervousness had prevented his having the courage
to do for himself  made him move voluntarily
from the reclining posture in which he had been
so long placed.

Uncle Timothy and Pynsent said there was no
serious injury, but that she must be kept very
quiet; and also that Anna must do her best to
be still for a day or two, as her ankle was already
much swelled. Fortunately for Mr. Michelson,
Aunt Betsey was there, and he heard from her,
who thought of him when nobody else did, of
Tiny's state. He begged her to ask the doctors
to allow him to see the child before he left, as he
should feel less anxious about her when he knew
how she looked. Permission being granted, he
went into the library, and his son slipped in after
him ; it was quite a hospital. Tiny put her hand
into Mr. Michelsons, and whispered that she was
not hurt, and thanked him timidly for his kindness.
Everybody wondered at Mr. Michelsons
anxious face and his gentle manner to the little
girl. Chatham meanwhile was standing by Annans

sofa, and listening to her hearty laughter over the



whole affair. Jessie, as usual, was occupied with
the patient, and to her Mr. Michelson turned,
with a look of great complacency, as if he would
express his gratitude for some favour bestowed on
himself. Perhaps he never before admired anyone
for mere goodness, but he did so now. So
true it is that there is a deep, intricate spring somewhere
or other in every heart, be it selfish or

depraved, that a certain peculiar touch can move :
once moved, it is not difficult to open many closed
compartments, that would, but for that first delicate
touch, have been closed for ever. Mr. Michel -
son bent over the fair child and kissed her forehead
before he took his departure, and seemed
almost to have forgotten his former favourite,
Anna, in his sudden fancy for her. He wished
her good-morning, however, and hoped that they
should meet again on the ice on the morrow, as he
beckoned Chatham away.

When they were gone, Captain Burford decided
that it would be impossible for any of the others to
go home that night, and told Jessie that she and
his housekeeper must improvise beds, since sleep in
his house they should. As the house was a large
one there was no great difficulty, especially as Present
and Nelson arranged to repose on two old-fashioned
sofas in the drawing-room by the fire.

During the course of the afternoon, Pynsent
communicated to Captain Burford the circumstances
of his and Jessie's morning's interview with
Mr. Skinner. The Captain was in raptures.

I declare'' he said, " there never was anybody
in the world like Jessie; there was only one of
her came over in three ships, I am morally certain.
What a lucky fellow Nelson will be !"

A shade passed over Pynsents brow.

I say , Captain," he began , and paused.

And what do you say, Surgeon ?" asked the
Captain : " speak out, man."

That I think we shall be doing no good, either
to Nelson or Jessie, by talking of the old agreement
between you and my father about their marriage."


Odds bobs. Sir ! what do you mean ? I shall
talk of what I like. Am I, at my age, to be
tutored by a pack of youngsters ? That is just a
second edition of Nelson s gibberish and newfangled
nonsense; and I can assure you I only
bore it from him because he was just returned;
he had better not try again."

I beg your pardon. Sir," said Pynsent, " only
I felt assured that you would not like to annoy
Jessie ; and I think it might annoy her."

"I'll be hanged. Master Pynsent, if ever I annoyed
her in my life, or ever shall," responded
the Captain, dashing out of the room, and slamming
the door after him.

The cause of his irascibility was Nelson's very
decided devotion to Anna's sprained ankle, to the
total estrangement of his attention from Jessie.

In the evening, when they were all grouped
round a large fire, telling riddles and ghost stories

by the fire-lights the Captain, who had been hitherto
a listener, suddenly exclaimed 

Now I will tell you one of the prettiest stories
that I have heard for a long times And he forthwith
began to detail, with illustrations and additions
of his own, the history of Pynsent and
Jessie's two hundred pounds. He used feigned
names, and mixed it up with many sea phrases, so
as to conceal the actual dramatis pence from all
but their individual selves ; but he made the little
episode so charming that everybody exclaimed,
" What a beautiful sketch ! what a delightful,
worthy, amiable pair ! Do not you like that now,
Jessie T Whilst poor Jessie was blushing redder
than the fire.

"I think Jessie could have done that," whispered
Tiny to Charles, who had now resumed his
chaise longue, and had the child, as usual, close to
him.

The Captain overheard.

So she could, little 'cute Tiny, and so she did :
that was Jessie and Pynsent. What do you think
of that, Nelson? I take it you have not heard
anything better than that in India. What a wife
she will make ! I only wish you were worthy
of her; but you are not, and she won't have
you !"

I do not think there is any one in the world
worthy of Jessie," said Charles with sudden animation.


"You are trying hard to spoil her by flattery,"
said Uncle Timothy, taking the blushing girl's
hand playfully ; " we are all liable to be spoilt by
that dangerous charm."

Not Jessie," said Nelson emphatically ; " she
is one of the few who has been, and will be, always
the same."

Jessie looked up involuntarily at the speaker,
and a tear swelled in her eyes as she met Nelson's
glance : it was beaming with the old affectionate
admiration  the one look that seemed to say,
There is nobody in the world like her !"

1 must run away, I see," she said hurriedly,
rising and going towards the door.

"No, no," said half-a-dozen voices; and "no"
acted Nelson, as he ran to the door and stood with
his back to it.

Jessie returned to her seat, and by some strange
chance Nelson found himself by her side, and the
foot of Anna's sofa was deserted. The Captain
looked pleased once more, and the evening went
off very merrily, in spite of the accident, which
rather gave cause for amusement than lamentation.

Meanwhile, Mr. Michelson and Chatham were

having a fashionable unnaturally late dinner at
Sir Thomas Mansfords, and in the course of the
evening the following conversation took place between
IMr. Michelson and Lady Mansford; that
is to say, we will break in upon their secrets where
it suits us : not that they are secrets, after all,
because Chatham and Miss Erskine occasionally
join.

I cannot help thinking she would suit Lady
Georgiana," said Lady Mansford, " if she were not
so handsome. You have no idea what a disagreeable
thing it is sometimes to have a very handsome
governess."

"But," suggested Mr. Michelson, 'my sister-in-law
has no grown-up sons, or even grown-up
nephews, except Chatham, who never goes near
her."

"And if she had," said Chatham, "she would
be superior to such vulgar prejudice. My Aunt
Georgiana is a very sensible woman."

Many sensible women object to beautiful governesses,"
said Lady Mansford, laughing. " For
my own part, if I had children, I think I would
rather have a good-looking than an ugly teacher
for them, because they are generally discriminates
and lovers of beauty. But I certainly like Miss
Burton. There is a certain aristocratic air about

her, derived both from nature and family, that
bespeaks the real lady ; and I should be sorry to
see her placed with low-bred people, who would
treat her as an inferior."

That my aunt would never do," said Chatham;
"besides, so beautiful a girl ought to be
with some one who would take an interest in her
well-doing, and who would act the chaperon, if not
the mother, by her, and tell her what to do in
difficult cases."

"What difficult cases?" asked Mr. Michelson.
I think women always know how to take care
of themselves; and I am sure that black-eyed little
coquette will not be behindhand."

Poor girl ! she has no mother," said Lady
Mansford ; " and in being cast upon the world will
need a friend, or I greatly mistake. What do you
really think of Lady Georgiana ? "

That if you will write to her, and sound her
upon the subject, I will sound the Burtonss; and
perhaps between us we may do either some good
or some harm."

You seem greatly interested in their conversation,"
said Miss Erskine to Chatham, rather
maliciously. " Who is this very beautiful Miss
Burton?"

"I really scarcely know," replied Chatham,

slightly embarrassed by the suddenness of the
question. " She is of a highly respectable family,
who have been somewhat reduced in circumstances,
people say by pride and improvidence; but as I
have been little in this county until lately, I have
never been introduced to her, or her sister until
today."

Really ! " said Miss Erskine, astonished, " I
should have thought you quite old acquaintances ;
you were as friendly as possible."

Oh ! it does not take long, you know, to get
acquainted with young ladies on their preferment,"
said Chatham ; " you and I only met yesterday."


With this dubious and very rude speech, Chatham
walked to the other end of the room, followed
by a look of supreme displeasure from his
father.

The following day Mr. Michelson called on
Captain Burford, and, after having been closeted
with him some time, proposed sending for Anna
to ask her whether she would like to accept a
situation as governess, if one were offered to her.
She came limping and laughing into the room,
and Mr. Michelson inquired about her sprain, and
then for Tiny ; both were pretty well, and she was
ready to go upon the ice again.

Do you intend returning to London again ? ''
asked Mr. Michelson.

I believe so/ replied Anna with a blank look,
I have no choice."

If I might be allowed to ask would you prefer
going elsewhere ? "

Anywhere in the worlds said Anna ; '' I hate
Miss Primmertons, and cannot bear the idea of
going back."

Then you would, perhaps, prefer entering a family
as governess, if a good situation were to offer ?"

"Oh yes! I should like that fifty times better."

"Lady Mansford told me yesterday that my
late wife's sister, Lady Georgiana Meredith, was a
short time ago inquiring for a governess for her
two little girls : we thought it might suit you."

Delightfully ! " said Anna without farther consideration.
" Will you write directly, and I can
go after the holidays."

Mr. Michelson smiled, and fixed his fall, uncomfortable
eyes on her animated face. He admired,
and she knew it. " He will do anything
for me," she thought.

You settle matters as quickly as we are obliged
to do in a storm, Anna," said Captain Burford.
We must consult the other authorities before we
decide."

VOL. I. L

At all events' said Mr. Michelson, " I will
make the necessary inquiries; there can be no
harm in that's

Oh, thank you, Mr. Michelson ! '' said Anna.
Where does Lady Georgiana live ? "

I am afraid that will be the most disagreeable
part of the matter' replied Mr. Michelson, " for
her abode is a great way off. She lives almost
wholly in Wales."

That is charming' said Anna, " I long to go
into Wales. Only fancy. Captain Burford, living
amongst those grand mountains, and seeing goats,
and shepherdesses with broad hats and crooks, and
waterfalls, and ravines, and picturesque peasantry,
and I do not know what besides. Oh, I must run
and tell Jessie directly ! " and away she went.

"\ am afraid the barren hills of Cardiganshire
will disappoint her," said Mr. Michelson, " although
I believe the country contains many beauties;
however, we will not disenchant her. Do
you think she is fit for a governess ? "

I scarcely know what to say," replied Captain
Burford ; " but I dare say she will be broken in,
like the rest of them."

"And how is your little friend?" asked Mr.
Michelson ; " is she still with you ?"

"Will you come into the drawing-room, and

there yoii will find her. They all remained here
last night .

In the drawing-room not only Tiny was found,
but, to Mr. Michelsons evident annoyance, his
son Chatham. Anna was not talking of the Welsh
mountains, not choosing to do so for reasons best
known to herself, before the gallant young Captain,
but was declaring herself quite ready to go upon
the ice, and into the chair again.

"1 think you had better not, Anna'' said Jessie ;
it will look strange after your accident, and you
may have another upset."

You know, Miss Burton," said Chatham, ' it
is always safest to travel by the coach that broke
down last, because the coachman is always more
careful, and the horses are better harnessed."

Jessie shook her head.

I do not think your brother will go with you
again," said Louisa Colville ; " and Mr. Burford
said he had had enough of it''

The two gentlemen alluded to were not present.

It is possible to do very well without Nelson
and Pynsent," said Anna. " At all events we can
go down upon the ice. Uncle Timothy, Captain
Burford, will you come? Mr. Michelson, will you
come down to the moor ? "

Mr. Michelson was engaged in talking to Tiny,

L 2

but he assented. Tiny said she would stay with
Charles, and Uncle Timothy declared himself afraid;
but the rest prepared to go,  Jessie rather reluctantly,
as she disliked the idea of the numerous
questions their appearance would draw forth : they
had already had some score of inquiries.

Soon after they had left the house, the two
young men came in.

* Where is Jessie?" asked Pynsent.

"Gone down to the moor," replied Charles,
with the rest."

What in the world do they do there again today
? They had eclat enough yesterday."

"Captain Michelson asked them to go, and
Anna seemed to wish it," said Uncle Timothy;
but Jessie was decidedly averse."

I should think so," remarked Pynsent.

We had better go after them," said Nelson ;
"' perhaps Chatham may have out the chair, and
in his harum-scarum way do mischief."

I must go home," replied Pynsent. " Besides,
I have no ambition for that kind of popularity.
I hate the questions,  How did it happen ? Where
were they hurt?' and so on, just as much as I
hate having to tell the story. Don't you, Uncle
Timothy?"

For my part," said his uncle, " I take refuge

under cover of professional secresy. I give it to be
understood that I never talk about my patients or
their families, and so nobody asks me."

Tell Jessie that I shall be here with the carat
three' said Pynsent. " Tiny must not walk sofar
; and I think that scapegrace, Anna, would be
much better if she kept quiet, so advise her to
come with Charles."

I do not imagine she would take my advice,"
said Nelson, ' but I will tell Jessie."

Pynsent went to fetch the car, and Nelson to
see after his guests. The latter muttered to him '
self something to the effect that " women were all
full of vanity and folly, and that Annabella Burton
was the earnest and silliest of her sex ; that they
were all pleasure-seekers, and sacrificed every feeling
of propriety for mere temporary gratification."
And all this because poor Anna liked the innocent
amusement of walking and gliding about on the ice !
Men are always so hard upon the follies of women,
and so lenient to their own. " She was literally
limping," pursued Nelson to himself, "this very
morning ; and just because a handsome young man
was in the way, she must needs expose herself to a
second sprain. Indeed I think it might do her
good to have one. How different she is from
Jessie ! " here Nelson heaved a sigh ; " and yet.

do what one will one cannot help paying her
more attention, and thinking more of her than of
her sister. It is a shame that one of her coquettish
glances should have more power than the pure,
truthful looks of that high-minded, true-hearted
Jessie. But what have I to do with either of
them ? Why should I take such a vast interest as
to whether Anna is falling in love with Chatham
Michelson, and he with her,  I, who have vowed
myself to my profession, to duty and to glory ?
Heigh ho ! I will just go and see Colonel managing,
and stay till the little flirt has gone back
to her school."

These reflections were broken in upon by seeing
Anna in close conversation with Lady Mansford,
to whom, at that lady's request, Mr. Michelson
had introduced her and her sister. Chatham was
talking to Miss Colville, and seemed just as devoted
to her as he had been to Anna. Indeed he had
the power of making himself agreeable to most
people, from an unaffected frankness of manner
that nature had given him, and that always finds
its way to the heart. Kind, courteous, and gentlemanlike,
Chatham pleased where many a more
shining and talented man would have failed. Nelson,
for instance, had five hundred times more of
character than he had, and really a much better

temper, with perhaps more of genuinely refined
feeling, but he sank into insignificance beside his
more brilliant friend. Chatham possessed some of
his father s faults, with much of the amiability of
his mother. He was hot-headed and passionate,
but generous and forgiving. He had a good share
of talent, but neglected its cultivation in his pursuit
of the less worthy acquirements of mere agreeability
and the art of pleasing. He was selfish too,
and although he would not have done a dishonourable
action for the world, he had not the stern principle
within him which could make him sacrifice
personal ease, pleasure, or amusement, to a simple
sense of duty. He and his father were continually
at variance on account of his extravagant habits,
which unfortunately were in the main too like
Mr. Michelsons own extravagant habits, but un-counteracted
by little meanness. The more you
knew of Chatham, the more you liked him, but
the less you esteemed him ; whereas the more you
knew of Nelson, the more you must of necessity
esteem him, whether you liked him or not.

"Well, Burford, shall we have the chair out?
asked Chatham, when he perceived Nelson.

What does Miss Colville say?" asked Nelson.

"Everybody here seems most anxious for it,"
said Louisa, "but I really think it is going to
fain : look at the sun, how dim and cloudy it is ! "

"Do you think it will rain, Captain Burford?"
asked Chatham.

Yes, cats and dogs before an hour is over. It
is thawing already, and the sooner we make our
way across the ice the better."

'may I ask who that young lady is?" asked
Lady Mansford of Anna, pointing to Miss Colville,
just as Nelson came to announce the thaw.

Miss Colville, a schoolfellow of mine."

Dear me ! is she any relation of the Indian
Colvilles?"

She is a daughter of Colonel Colville, who is
in India."

Then I knew her aunt years ago : will you
introduce me?"

Anna heralded Lady Mansford across, and introduced
her to Louisa. Aunt Betsey stood near,
and Lady Mansford suddenly recollected that she
had known her also years ago, but that she had
neglected her under change of circumstances. She
was about to speak, when Aunt Betsey, with a very
slight and dignified curtsey, walked away. Anna
felt disgusted, as she longed to be intimate with
that charming Lady Mansford.

A thick haze was gathering on all sides. The
sun looked through it sulkily, and withdrew all his
bright glances from the ice, as if he thought he

had courted it long enough without meeting any
answering warmth. The fog was more successful
for he drew forth a slight moisture in return for
his pressing overtures. The faces of the ladies
were beginning to look blue and even Anna felt
chilled. With one consent they all resolved to
leave the moor, and general was the regret that
the frost was breaking up.

I hope I shall have the pleasure of seeing you
at my house, Miss Colville," said Lady Mansford.

Thank you," replied Louisa, '' but my stay in
the country will be short, and I am dependent on
my friends."

I will send for you, and send you back, and
shall be delighted if the Miss Burtonss would accompany
you," said Lady Mansford.

It is scarcely safe to remain here longer,"
interrupted Mr. Michelson ; " they say the ice is
giving way."

I Avill write to you. Miss Colville," said Lady
Mansford ; " good bye." And the party separated
as quickly as they could, Mr. Michelson attending
Lady Mansford and the heiress, his son accompanying
the Burtonss.

It was so dangerously slippery that the gentlemen
were compelled to assist the ladies. Chatham
and Anna were arm-in-arm immediately, and Nell

3

son and Miss Colville. Jessie had as much as she
could do to keep Captain Burford and Aunt Betsey
on their legs.

The first couple went on merrily enough, in spite
of Aima's slight lameness, and the treacherous ice.

'' And how do you mean to kill this long evenings'
asked Chatham; "winter in the country is
dreadful without a houseful of people; but then
you are a houseful to be sure, and a merry one.

"We are going to the Grange as soon as we
get homes said Anna.

"How I wish I was going too ! '' sighed Chatham.

I am sure my uncle would be very glad to see
you," said Anna, " and it is not very far from the
Hal."

I promised to call on him about the election,
by the bye : how thoughtless of me, to have forgotten
! I will do so on my way home. What tim
do you think you shall be there ?"

About four or five at the latest."

CHAPTER XII.

Haste thee, Nymph, and bring with thee
Jest and youthful jollity.
Quips, and cracks, and wanton wiles,
Nods, and backs, and wreathed smiles,
Such as hang on Hebe's cheek,
And love to Hve in dimple sleek ;
Sport that wrinkled Care derides,
And Laughter holding both his sides."  Milton.

I SUPPOSE it is needless to say that when the party
from Fairfield reached the Grange in their covered
car, they found Captain Michelson there, talking
politics with Farmer Barnard, and looking anxiously
out of the window in expectation of the arrival.
It must not be imagined that all our friends went
in the said car. Though a roomy and convenient
vehicle, it would not hold the united forces of Bur-tons
and Burfords. Captain Burford had hired a
fly for himself and Charles, in which Tiny and
Aunt Betsey also went. Uncle Timothy had made
such a point of Aunt Betsey's being of the party,
that for the first time in her Use she condescended
to become Mr. Barnard's guest, and the flutter of

feelings in the breast of that worthy man was quite
overpowering.

"Don't go, Mr. Chatham' said Farmer Barnard,
 " I beg your pardon, Captain Michelson. If
you can put up with rough fare and a farmhouse,
and enjoy country games, we shall all be glad of
your company, I am sure''

Oh, thank you ! " replied Chatham, feeling
guilty as Anna looked at him, "I shall be delighted."


You must have tea for lunch, and supper for
dinner," said the farmer.

It would be impossible to describe all the fun
and laughter of that evening at the Grange. Even
Aunt Betsey relaxed somewhat from her stiffness,
and smiled when the fat farmer actually bent his
knee before her in redeeming a forfeit, and thus
tacitly confessed that she was the lady of all others
that he admired the most. Who could tell all the
flirtations, palpitations, and associations of those
Christmas games and their attendant forfeits?
how old-fashioned mirth and antiquated jests
played at hide-and-seek with propriety ; how men
and women forgot the punctilios of society, and
romped like children ; and how all were more inclined
to love and friendship at the end than at the
beginning of the evening. There is Farmer Barnard,

a great living joke, cracking his sides with
laughter at the two little Skinners who have been
asked to meet Tiny, and who are initiating her
into the mysteries of " Truckle the Trencher."

You are Lily of the Valley," says one; " and
when somebody twirls the trencher and says ' Lily
of the Valley !' you must run and pick it up, and
then truckle, and call another flower ; and if you
do not catch it before it is flat on the ground, you
will have a forfeit."

' Now all say your names," says Jessie, standing
in the middle of the room, holding a wooden
trencher in her hands.

Magnolia," says Aunt Betsey, ambitious even
in her amusements.

What ?" asks Tiny gently of little Skinner.

Mag-no-liar," is the reply : " a great fine
flower."

Poppy,'  screams Farmer Barnard.

Rose," says Anna.

' Very appropriate," whispers Captain Michelson,
who is seated by her side, and is overheard
by Nelson, standing near.

Myrtle," calls Chatham, and adds quietly,
The rose wants the myrtle to make it perfect ;"
and Anna blushes, whilst Chatham gazes on her
admiringly.

I will have a wild flower," says Louisa Colville,
'' Forget-me-not."

So will I," exclaimed Pynsent, answering that
gentle, blue-eyed, lovable Forget-me-not : '' Water-lily."


'' Water-lilies ought to shelter Forget-me-nots,"
says Captain Burford maliciously; "so. Water-lily,
take care of that delicate Forget-me-not."

Camomile-flowers," says Uncle Timothy drily,
and causes a great laugh.

Lily-of-the- Valley," says Tiny.

Fuchsia and Geranium," the two little Skinners.


Coxcomb," cries Captain Burford.

Very inappropriate," says Jessie ; " and now
Nelson, it is your turn."

' I don't know any more flowers," says Nelson
carelessly.

Cowslip,  be  Cowslips," suggests Jessie ; " do
you remember the huge tisty-tosties we used to
make long ago ?"

Cowslip be it, little Violet," said Nelson, recollections
of boyhood and cowslip-gathering with
Jessie rushing through his mind. ' And you ?"

' You have named me ' Violet,' " says Jessie ;
and now we will begin the game ; remember,
first, that when any one calls  Flowers ! ' everybody
must change places, or forfeit."

The servants are seen peeping in at the door,
and Jessie begs them to come in, and sit down by
the door, and see the fun.

Jessie truckles the trencher capitally, and calls
'' Coxcomb !"

Up jumps " Coxcomb," and just catching it intime,
twirls, and shouts," Lily-of-the- Valley !"

Lily calls, " Poppy !" and that luckless flower
slips, and slipping, knocks down the trencher.

A forfeit ! a forfeit !" and Poppy pulls forth
a large clasp-knife, twirls and shouts, "Magnolia!"


Magnolia glides across the room, takes the
trencher between her finger and thumb daintily,
truckles, and cries " Flowers !" gliding herself into
a vacant seat, and putting all the people in motion.


Strange that Chatham finds himself again by
Anna in their new seats, and Nelson is the forfeited
one, without a seat, in the middle of the
room.

"Rose !" he cries.

Rose darts across like a star, and summons
"Myrtle." Myrtle calls "Violet;" Violet invokes
" Camomile-flowers," who fairly falls down
amid roars of laughter ; Camomile-flowers calls
Forget-me-not," who wishes to call " Water-lily's

but changes, and says " Flowers!" Geranium
is forfeited, who is delighted to have out " Poppy,"
who screams for '' Fuchsia," and is by Fuchsia
screamed for again.

And so goes on the game, young and old playing
with equal enjoyment, and Farmer Barnard and
Captain Burford finding themselves in greater request
than all the rest put together. The forfeits
are given into the care of Charles, who looks on in
his armchair by the fire, and when there is a sufficient
number, he cries them.

Here is a thing, and a very pretty thing, what
shall the lady do to redeem it again?" he asks
Nelson, who is kneeling at his feet.

Kneel to the handsomest, bow to the wittiest,
and shake hands with the one she loves best."

Anna's forfeit," says Charles.

It used to be, ' kiss the one she loves best,' in
my younger days," says Farmer Barnard.

The rising generation are too fine for that,"
says Captain Burford ; " I don't suppose they ever
heard of kissing."

Anna kneels gracefully to Captain Michelson,
bows to Nelson, and pauses, with her finger on her
mouth, to consider. The two young men feel
nervous.

No relations, Miss Anna," says Captain Burford

; " they are not allowed in forfeits, for everybody
knows that one loves one's relations."

Very well' said Anna, running round behind
the Captain, and imprinting a kiss upon his cheek,
over his shoulder. " Now never say again that
the rising generation do not know what kissing
means."

You monkey ! I don't believe you," says Captain
Burford.

'' Here's a thing, and a very pretty thing, what
shall the gentleman do to redeem it again ?"

Anna peeps, and sees Captain Burford' s gold
snuflP-box.

Dance the Sailor's Hornpipe," she says.

Come, Coxcomb," exclaimed Charles, holding
up the box.

I'll pay you off, you gipsy ! but you shall not
get my snuff-box," says the Captain, and sets to
work with all his heart, and dances a regular sailor's
jig, which Jessie hums for him.

Bravo ! bravo !" cry the whole party, as he falls
panting at Charles's feet, to cry the next forfeit.

Spell 'Opportunity' in the corner with Mr.
Barnard of the Grange," he says.

Aunt Betsey !" exclaims Charles, smothering
a laugh.

Aunt Betsey declines the forfeit with dignity,

\

but Farmer Barnard, forgetful of his usual shyness,
rises, and insists on conducting her to the
corner. She gives her hand, and they walk slowly
thither.

You are not of the rising generation, remember,
Barnard," says the Captain.

Barnard did remember, and as Aunt Betsey deliberately
spelt " Opportunity," meditated the insult
of a salute ; but his courage failed him, as he gazed
on Aunt Betseyss frigid demeanour, and he could
only lead her to her seat again.

I should not have believed that of your's says
Captain Bm-ford.

Various were the forfeits cried. Tiny had to
kiss Captain Michelson, which she was a long time
resolving to do ; Chatham to dance a reel with the
two prettiest young ladies in the room, which he
performed with Anna and Louisa Colville; Jessie
to sing a song ; Pynsent to make himself agreeable
to the ladies  which he did, by paying them the
most outrageous compliments ; and Nelson to repeat
a portion of Shakspeare to some young lady
present. He performed his part charmingly, by
addressing the two sisters in the beautiful passage
from the ' Midsummer Night's Dream,' that begins


We, Hernia, like two artificial gods," etc.

Upon my word Nelson, you must have been
on the Indian stage' said Captain Burford, looking
proudly on his son, and feeling pleased at his
joining Jessie with her lovelier sister, in his address.

And so the evening sped ; the game was changed,
and various others succeeded,  quiet ones, that
Charles could join in. They had " What's my
thought like'' and '' How, when, and where?"
and " Cross questions and crooked answers," and
last of all, " I love my love," which caused much
mirth. Pynsent, who was undeniably the quiet
wag of the party, managed so that Farmer Barnard
should have the letter '' B," and he began,
I love my love with a B, because she is beautiful ;
I hate her because she is bilious ; I took her to the
sign of the Bear, and treated her to blackberries :
the ugliest part about her is her bonnet, the prettiest
her  her  beauty ; her name is  " here he
paused. " Betsey," whispered Pynsent ; " Burton,"
murmured Captain Burford ; and between the two
the good farmer was quite abashed. " Her name
is Betsey," at last he said, and she lives at 
Fairfield," muttered Captain Burford ; " Barnstaple,"
boldly said Mr. Barnard.

Then it came to Chatham to love his love with
an R, and he said her name was " Rose," which
caused Anna to blush ; and thus the varied feelings

of poor human nature "were excited by this game
of forfeits.

Just before supper came Mr. Skinner, an unheard
of honour, and one that might well have been dispensed
With, not only by his acquaintances, but by
his children, who looked blank at the apparition.

What do you think of Jessie's intended V
asked Pynsent of Louisa Colville.

Horrid !" was the reply.

Jessie was busy seeing about supper, which was
laid in the large hall, and consisted of every variety
of Christmas fare. When they sat down to it, Mr.
Skinner did actually manage to get next to Jessie,
who had taken a small Skinner on the other side.
It was very odd that she never sat beside any one
she cared to be next to. Again Aunt Betsey was
voted to the head of the table, and she had never been
so agreeable before. Truly heart-gaiety is infectious.
There was Anna again, between the two soldier
beaux, dividing her favours, like a little coquette as
she was ; and Charles managed to sit up to supper
he was evidently getting stronger.

After supper, when abundance of wine, and
something stronger than wine, contained in a set
of small decanters, was on the table, songs were
proposed. Jessie and Charles sang duets beautifully,
and they were at once called upon to begin
the concert. Charles said his voice was weak, but

he would do his best. They sang the fine duet
from the Midsummer Nights Dream, " I know a
banks  fine, both in poetry and music ; everybody
was delighted. No accompaniment could have improved
that harmonious blending of voices. Then,
according to custom, Jessie called for a song, and
she named " Captain Michelson." He had a very
fine cultivated voice, and sang without requiring to
be pressed, " Drink to me only with thine eyes,"
which elicited much applause. He called on Anna,
but she could not sing without an accompaniment ;
neither could Miss Colville. Aunt Betsey was his
next attempt. She simpered, and declined, and said
she had given up singing ; but as everybody knew
she used to sing, they would let her have no peace
until she consented to try. Her voice was still good,
and, to the great prejudice of Farmer Barnard s
peace of mind, she sang a song that he used to hear
her sing when in the zenith of her charms and
cruelty. It was sadly at variance with her character,
but singers are not in the habit of stopping
to consider whether they themselves practise what
they sing. It was called, " The Friend and the
Lover," and, in very sensible language, declared
that the lady was waiting until she could find
a true, kind, clever, and courteous mate. The refrain
of each verse was 

Nor e'er will I marry till the one I can find
Where the friend and the lover are equally join'd."

Farmer Barnard chimed in loudly in this chorus
and highly approved the sentiment.

Then followed a wonderful Christmas carol,
drawled out, in character, and as a duet, by
Farmer Barnard and Pynsent, which made everybody
present die of laughing, and wonder whether
either uncle or nephew possessed any of the family
talent for music.

Captain Burford sang a good sea-song with all
his heart, and of course it was ' Cease, loud Boreas,
blustering railer.'

Nelson was no great singer, but he used, in his
boyhood, to sing with Jessie, so he was loudly
called upon for one of the old ditties.

"No song, no supper ! cried Farmer Barnard,
forgetful that supper was over.

"Well, Jessie, you must sing with me," said
Nelson. " The only song I remember is ' The Cot
beside the Lime-trees "

"Very well," said Jessie, who sat opposite
Nelson, and had been rather pained by his lack of
attention during supper : he had not even asked
her to take wine with him.

They began the following song, in which Jessie
rather supported Nelson than actually sang with
him, making a pretty second to his tenor : 

THE COT BESIDE THE LIME-thee.

A pleasant cot shall ours be,

My Dora dear, my Dora dear ;
Down yonder by the Lime-tree

Its walls we'll raise, its thatch we'll rear,
And round about the windows

We'll plant the rose and vine,
And up the Httle chimney

The ivy shall entwine ;

And flowers shall blow,
And herbs shall grow,

When thou art mine, art mine.

A merry cot shall ours be.

My own true love, my own true love ;
For in the flowering Lime-tree

The birds shall sing, the bees shall rove ;
And cheerful through the garden

The Httle stream shall play.
Where shining trout and minnows

Shall dance their Ives away ;
And thou shalt be
As glad with me,

As they, my love, as they.

A peaceful life shall ours be

When thought my wife, when thought my wife.
Beneath the fragrant Lime-tree, 

No bitter words, no angry strife ;
Content shall crown our labour,

And love shall grace our cot,
Thy smiles shall make our homestead

A rich sunshiny spot ;
And we shall bless.
In cheerfulness,

Our lot, our happy lot.

That simple song did Nelson good. Much of
disquiet and jealousy had been rankling in his
mind all that evening. Jessicass sweet voice, joining
with his own, seemed to enter gently into his
heart and calm it ; and when he glanced across at
her, and saw the modest, blushing face, and the
eyes cast down, as if upon the hands in which the
little girl next her had caressingly slipped hers, all
the affections of his deep, true heart swelled up as
of old, and again flowed over the hard stones and
pebbles that had been laid bare at its bottom. He
inwardly said that if, in the whole world, there
was one human being true, pure, and good, it was
Jessie. Her voice faltered a little once or twice,
and he fancied that he saw something like moisture
pressing through the soft eyelashes. When she
looked up, and met his glance, and blushed and
smiled, he was quite convinced there was a tear in
her eye, and he asked himself whether old associations
had forced it there.

When the praises and thanks of the party ceased,
and they had begun to ask for more songs. Nelson
said quietly, " Jessie, may I have the pleasure of
taking wine with you?" and as she, in the words
of Chatham's song, " drank to him only with those
eyes," he thought them the dearest and best he
had ever looked into.

It is a pity that good old sociable custom of
pledging one another over the wineglass should be
nearly extinct ; quite so, indeed, in the fashionable
world. Almost the last remnant of the ancient
hospitality of our forefathers, it is ill replaced by
the "Wine, Sir?" or "Wine, Ma'am'' of the
dandified footman behind your chair. There was
a friendliness in the glance, nod, and smile, that
helped to break the ice of a stiff, frigid dinner
party, or to warm into conversation the shy, silent
pair who had l)een sitting side by side and exhausting
all their stock of monosyllables before. Better
still, it sometimes cemented friendship or awakened
love, or made eyes bright that had been dull.
Not unfrequently it reconciled divided lovers, by
loosening the bands of hard jealousy or unkindness
that had fastened round the heart, but which
the glance of fellowship rent in twain ; or it was
the first symptom of reconciliation between friends
or acquaintances at variance from slight, silly
causes; or it helped to make mere acquaintances
friends. On the present occasion it made Jessie
glad and gay, and Nelson himself again.

It was a fine, clear, frosty, moonlight morning
when the party found themselves on their way
homewards. The fly went on swiftly before, and
its inmates had not much to say for themselves, 

VOL. I. M

they were so tired and sleepy ; but around the car
hovered all kinds of emotions. Was there ever a
car that was fall of young people of both sexes,
returning from a Christmas party, around which,
or in which, various emotions did not dwell?
Pynsent was driving, and Anna proposed to Louisa
Combe to sit on the driving-seat with him, that
they might look at the " beautiful, exquisite moons
Louisa consented, and they put Pynsent between
them. This arrangement enabled Captain Michelson
to ride by Annans side, and reining in his good
horse, to watch the moonbeams flickering about
her. Uncle Timothy was dozing inside, and Nelson
sat by Jessie. They took Mr. Skinner and his
children as far as their entrance-gate, and were
not sorry to bid them good-night. Mr. Skinner
actually pressed Jessie's hand in his bony fingers
as he got out of the car, and the pressure thrilled
painfully through her nervous system. The thrill
passed away however, as thrills usually do, and she
soon found herself joining Nelson in the duet,
Flow on, thou shining rivers which he was humming
in the moonlight. Conversation ceased, and
all the young people joined to make the night musical,
by uniting their voices in song.  Meet me by
moonlight,' ' Oh no, we never mention her,'  The
Soldier's Tear,'  Alice Gray,' and many other simple

ballads of the period, were sung in chorus, and
gentle, pleasant thoughts and feelings were inspired
bv the strains.

The threatened thaw had not continued, but Frost
cast his white garment over the earth. The hedges
were hung with icicles that rivalled the diamonds
pendent from the ears of an Eastern princess, or
the jewels studding her garments. Not a cloud
fell on the placid face of the moon, that gazed, like
a tender mother, on the sleeping earth, and converted
all her night-gear into silver tissue. Each
star seemed a spirit, each blade of grass a bright
fairy worshiper, each trembling withered leaf a
winter firefly. Clearly rang the music through
the frosty air ; and as Jessie glanced at the sky, and
saw those wonderful orbs of eternal light looking
down upon them, she thought of the worlds unseen
by mortal eye, and of their unknown inhabitants.
She sank into a train of pious meditation, that induced
her, when asked to begin another song, to
choose ' The Happy Lands with the closing verse
of which they reached Fairfield.

M 2

CHAPTER XIII.

Can it be flattery, to swear those eyes
Are Love's eternal lamps he fires all hearts with ?
That tongue the smart string to his bow ? those sighs
The deadly shafts he sends into our souls ?
Ah ! look upon me with thy spring of beauty,"

John Fletcher,

I AM sure I could make those wreaths best/ said
Jessie to Anna and Louisa ColviUe, who were torturing
holly berries and strawberries into aU kinds
of shapes.

"Do try, dear!" said Anna, throwing do\Ti a
wreath that she had in her hands.

' You had better go and dress the while," said
Jessie, " or we shall Ice late, and Captain Burford
hates anybody to be a minute behind time."

Oh, pray let me help you ! " said Louisa Colville,
" we shall finish them quicker together ; and
Anna can go and dress first, so as to be ready to
help us."

OflP went Anna, nothing loath, and the wreaths
progressed famously under Jessicass neat, tasteful

fingers. The one of ivy and sno wherries was soon
completed, and then followed that of ivy and holly.
Tiny stood hy, to thread the needles, and pick out
pretty bunches from amongst the mass of evergreens
that lay upon the table.

"1 hope your brother will not see us," said
Louisa. "He will laugh at our vanity, and I
should never have the courage to wear the wreath
afterwards."

There ! " exclaimed Jessie, holding up the red
and green chaplet, "that will become Anna very
much. I have mixed a few arbutus berries in it,
and they show out famously amongst the green."

"And what are you going to wear?" asked
Louisa Colville.

Oh, nothing ! " laughed Jessie : " fancy mea
steady old housekeeper and farmer, sporting
wreaths of flowers ! '

Then you shall wear this little bunch of laurentius,
just to please me," said Louisa, holding
a spray against her brown hair.

Oh yes, if you please ! " said Tiny, " it looks
so well. You cannot think how pretty you look,
Jessie."

"We must go and dress now," said Jessie,
taking up the wreaths and going upstairs.

I dare say my lady readers would like to know

what these young damsels wore at their first public
dance ; for Captain Burford was to give a dance that
nighty and everybody was to be there. Jessie and
Anna wore simple white muslin dresses, but Annans
was ornamented with red ribbons, whereas Jessie
wore no ornaments of any kind. Louisa Colville
sported a pale blue net over a smart satin slip, and
as she was remarkably fair, it became her well. The
snow berry wreath wound prettily round her braided
hair, and the blue eyes, and soft pink and white
cheeks looked very lovable beneath. Upon Annans
small head and jet-black hair the holly and ivy sat
superbly, lighting up her sparkling beauty, and
giving her the air of some proud, beautiful Diana
crowned with flowers.

' Oh, Anna, you look so beautiful ! " said Tiny,
throwing her arms round her, and gazing with intense
admiration on her face.

Anna looked in the glass, and knew that the
child spoke the truth.

To please me !' said Louisa entreatingly, holding
up the laurentius.

Well, I shall cut you all out, if I do, said
Jessie, sitting down, whilst Louisa inserted the
flowers tastefully.

' I would rather stay with Charles's said Tiny,
'' if I might ; and I am so afraid of spoiling my
best white frock."

*' Captain Burford would be annoyed if you were
not to go' said Anna ; ' and we will get the frock
washed nicely before you go back to London

The frock was very plain, and rather old fashioned.


"Let her wear this pink sash for once," said
Louisa Colville, bringing one of hers from a
drawer.

The pink sash was tried, and looked so well,
that the child was permitted to wear it, and, to
complete her smattering, Louisa put a sprig of
laurentius into the sash.

*A11 ready for conquest?" said Pynsent, peeping
out of his room as they walked down the passage,
and then following at a distance.

You have been quite as long adorning as we
have been," said Anna, tossing round her head.

Adorable beauty ! " cried Pynsent, sinking on
one knee in the passage, and putting his hand on
his heart.

Anna ran back and tried to push him down, but
failed.

'' Well, Aunt Betsey," said Pynsent when they
reached the parlour, " you and I shall have more
than we can do to chaperon these four young
ladies. Indeed I think I shall have it all to myself,
for you look as young as any of them."

Certainly Aunt Betsey did look very young at a
little distance.

Pynsent had never been a ball-goer, and had
rarely before seen young ladies in full dress, therefore
Louisa Colville appeared quite a star to him.
He condescended to look at her twice  a compliment
he rarely paid to a lady  and to assure them
all that they really looked very well ; adding aside
to Anna, that he had once paused before a shop-window
in London, to look at a very fine collection
of lovely dolls, and that they were exactly curled
and furrowed like them.

Nevertheless Pynsent was very proud of his
"dolls," when, with Miss Colville by his side,
he entered Captain Burford's large dining-room,
cleared out for dancing. As this party was in
honour of Nelson s return from India, everybody
was invited, and the room was already half-full of
guests. It was soon quite full, and dancing began.

Anna and Louisa Colville were unquestionably
the belles of the evening ; and when it was understood
that the latter was the daughter of a Colonel
and an heiress, partners multiplied upon her to
such an extent, that she did not know how to
dance with them all. Pynsent was tormented to
death for introductions; and in his amusement
and amazement at ic furore of the beaux, he said

the most impossible and improbable things about
her.

"What is her name, Burton?" asked one.

Colville/ replied Pynsent.

"Who is she?" inquired a third.

One of the great Colvilles of Castle Colville,
in the County Clare; her ancestor was Baron de
ColviUe."

Has she so much money ?" demanded a fourth.

"Enormous wealth, I believe,  not only from
her father, the Colonel, but from no end of uncles
and aunts."

How much should you say she was worth ? "
asked a young curate, who, having only a hundred
a year and very moderate expectations, was on the
look-out for money.

"One never knows those Indian fortunes. I
did hear how many millions of lacs of rupees, but
I really have forgotten."

She is remarkably pretty," said the young
curate. "Who is that beautiful girl near her?
she is really splendid !"

"It is lucky you said so," replied Pynsent;
"she is my sister. I thought you had met her
before."

Ah, yes ! some time ago. Will you do me the
favour to introduce me?"

M 3

"To which?" asked Pynsent.

Oh ! to Miss the heiress, if you pleases

Miss the heiress was engaged; and the curate
retired disappointed,, to seek out the next wealthiest
young lady in the room. In the course of the
evening, however, he managed to dance with Miss
Colville, fell violently in love with hers and almost
proposed for her. Louisa was astonished and flattered
by her vast " success," but little knew how
much of it she owed to Pynsent s account of her
wealth. Of course Anna's admirers were of the
more disinterested class, as everybody knew she
had no money ; but then they were literally worshipers.
She had the power of fixing by her
beauty, and of then putting the coup de grace by
the most fascinating, tantalizing manners. Captain
Michelson seemed to have no eyes but for her.
True, he danced with others; admired Louisa
Colville; said she was thoroughly well-dressed 
the best dressed girl in the room : still Anna was
the magnet. Nelson too,  the grave, yet changeable
Nelson,  was almost as much devoted; and
whilst, as in duty bound, making himself agreeable
to all the guests in turn, he found himself looking
at her, thinking of her, and talking to her continually.


And are you really going to my aunt's, to

bury yourself in Wales ?" asked Chatham, in one
of the pauses of the dance.

I suppose so, if she likes," said Anna, colouring
; " I have not heard yet."

But do you like it ?" asked Chatham.

'Of course I do not," was the reply; " I hate
it ; but it is better than Miss Primmertons."

"But why need you do either?"

I believe I have no choice. But pray do not
talk of such odious things now ; I want to forget
it, until I am obliged to remember it. Let me bean
independent Burton as long as I can."

The proud girl drew herself up and glanced
round as she said this, as if the Burtonss were, and
always had been, the first people in the world.

Chatham admired the pride, and inwardly declared
that she should never have that fine spirit,
as he called it, crushed, if he could help it,

What a conceited girl that Annabella Burton
is !" said Miss Sandford to Miss Smith, two young
ladies who were sitting as wallflowers during the
quadrille in question.

She looks as if it was a condescension for her
to dance at all," said Miss Smith ; '' she, too, as
poor as a church mouse, and going to be a governess
! "

She will soon have her conceit taken out of

her' said Mrs. Smith ; " I wonder Mr. Michelson
allows his son to be so attentive to her''

 So do I/' said Mr. Dart, a good-natured old
gentleman who was sitting near, "if he can help
it. But young men will be attentive to handsome
girls  and she is a handsome girl. I do not think
she is exactly conceited, but she looks proud. That
is the worst of those finishing London schools 
they put such absurd notions into people's heads."

' Will you give me that piece of myrtle ?" said
Chatham, as the quadrille concluded, and Anna
picked up a sprig that had fallen from her bosom.

'Of what value could it be to you?" asked
Anna, looking, or pretending to look, astonished.

I assure you I should prize it beyond anything
in the world," said Chatham enthusiastically.

What ! if it came from your aunt's future governess
?" said Anna carelessly, giving the myrtle
as she spoke.

Chatham looked at her reproachfully, but met
such a proud, half contemptuous glance, that he
scarcely knew what to make of her.

If Miss Annabella Burton is to be my aunt's
future governess," said Chatham, " both my aunt
and her nephew will, I am sure, value whatever
comes from her."

'sis she kind, then  and not overbearing  and

will she treat me like a lady  and not  not  ?"
said Anna recovering her natural manner, and
speaking hastily.

As she is a lady, and you are a lady, I do not
know what else she could do/ said Chatham.

Anna looked grateful, and, as the dance was
over, walked towards Jessie, who was sitting with
her Uncle Timothy, anxiously watching her, and
feeling uncomfortable at the earnest and animated
conversation that she was carrying on with Captain
Michelson. Uncle Timothy had been confiding to
her his fears that Anna was too volatile rightly and
conscientiously to be made a governess; and Jessie
was dreading the temptations that must surround
one so evidently and universally an object of admiration.
Scarcely was Anna seated by her side, when
Pynsent came up, accompanied by Louisa Colville,
with whom he had been, contrary to custom, walking
through a dance. Be it said, that Pynsent rather
eschewed dancing upon principle : not exactly religious
principle, but because he chose to consider it
beneath the dignity of the lords of the creation.

"I am requested," he said, bowing to Anna,
"to beg my beautiful and accomplished second
sister to favour the company with a song. Everybody
knows that you have learnt of Signor Squalling,
and we are all anxious to know how he

teaches. Miss Colville has kindly consented to
assist in a duet and we are all on the very points
of the horns of expectation."

How can we sing," said Anna, '' when the
piano is not in this room ? "

"The company will feel themselves honoured
by going into the drawing-rooms' said Pynsent,
' where I have caused to be placed the little secret
roll of music that I found in the car, and thus have
stopped up all avenues of escape."

Pynsent, you are too provoking," said Anna.

DonH say so, now ; because if you had not
meant to sing, you would not have brought your
music," replied Pynsent.

We are going to have some music," here broke
in Nelson ; ' will you all come into the drawing-room
? Miss Colville, I hope you will be so kind
as to sing  and you. Miss Annabella."

They all followed Nelson into the drawing-room,
where there was a somewhat antiquated piano, that
had belonged to his mother. A young lady was
already singing, much to the delight of our two
belles, who wished to avoid beginning. Their turn
came, however, and they sang an Italian duet,
Anna taking the first. They had been well taught,
and had good voices,  Anna's was, indeed, very
good, and her singing sufficiently finished for a

young lady of eighteen. As she was not nervous
she created quite a sensation whilst poor Louisa ,
who was fairly frightened to deaths broke down.
Captain Michelson came to the rescue and taking
up the second  the duet was the " Del con te" of
Norma  he and Anna finished it triumphantly together.
Mr. Michelson came into the room at the
conclusion and with the air of a connoisseur applauded.
He was passionately fond of Italian
music and sang well himself. Turning over some
other duets that lay on the piano he asked Anna
to sing one with him. She did so , and sanguis
well. As not many of the young people cared
much about Italian singing, most of them gradually
dropped off to the dancing-room, and left
few behind, except our friends the Burton and
Michelson set : we include Nelson therein. Louisa
Colville played the accompaniments, and Anna
sang, now alone, and now with Mr. Michelson or
Chatham, all the songs she had brought with her.
Mr. michelson was delighted  so was his son  so
was Nelson, though in reality he preferred Jessie's
voice and style of singing to Anna's. Then Chatham
sat down at the piano, and struck a few
chords. His father begged him to sing. He sang
the beautiful little ballad, *''' Annie Laurie," so
well, and with such feeling, that Anna Burton felt

her cheek flush every time that he came to the
concluding line 

And for bonnie Annie Laurie
I'd lay me down and dee."

"That must be meant for Annas whispered
Tiny to Jessie, " only her eyes are black instead of
blues

Mr. Michelson overheard the words, and darted
a frowning glance upon the child, which melted,
however, into one of strange softness, when he met
her gentle eye.

*" Do you like music V he said, seating himself
by her side, and taking her little hand in his.

Yes, very much," she replied.

And which song did you like best?"

The one you sang with Anna," was the answer
of the unconscious flatterer.

Do you think you should like me, if you knew
me?" asked Mr. Michelson, with a strange feeling
of anxiety at his heart.

Tiny hung her head.

'answer, dear," said Jessie; "you need not be
afraid, if you tell the truth."

I think I should," said Tiny timidly ; and Mr.
Michelson felt real pleasure at the reply.

Whilst Mr. Michelson was talking to Tiny,
Jessie glanced across at the piano, and saw a bit

of by-play going on which pained her in more
ways than one. Anna was bending her head over
a piece of music that she held in her haud and
blushing through the curls that partly shaded her
face, as they fell on the music. Chatham, who
had finished his song, but was still seated at the
piano, was looking up in her face and whispering.
Jessie did not hear what he said, but we did. He
too had overheard Tinys loud whisper, and said 

Yes, the words were intended for Anna Burton,
though her eyes are black and not blue."

On the opposite side of the piano Nelson was
leaning on his elbow, and gazing, partly concealed
by the music which intervened, on Anna. As if
he heard the words, as he saw the blush, a dark
shadow fell on his face, and his brows contracted,
as if he were in pain. Jessie knew well, by the
stern expression of the mouth, that he was displeased,
and suddenly her own cheek grew pale,
and her poor heart felt a pang. Nelson hastily
left the room, and in a few minutes afterwards
Chatham and Anna followed arm-in-arm, engaged
for the next waltz. Mr. Michelsons quick eye
caught the pair, and he too went to the dancing-room.
Pynsent brought a partner for Louisa Colville,
and soon the only inmates of the drawing-room
were Jessie and Tiny. The former sat down

on an easy chair by the fire, and Tiny on a stool
at her feet.

Poor Jessie ! This is the first harsh awakening
from her ife-long dream. True, she may fall back
again into the same dream, but never will it be so
untroubled and happy as it has hitherto been. To
have lived her childhood and early girlhood with
Nelson had helped to make those portions of her
life pass gently, in spite of the sorrows that obscured
it. To have wandered with him in thought
through the cities, mountains, and plains of India,
had been her dearest pleasure for the last eight
years; and to dwell with him for ever at some
future time  to share his hopes and fears  his joys
and sorrows  to be his trusting, helping friend
and comforter, was, she scarcely knew why, the
desire of her soul, and had been so ever since she
could remember to have formed a wish. But were
his thoughts, hopes, and wishes like hers? She
did not know. She began to fear not. Oh ! Captain
Burford, why did you plant in her mind, from
infancy, fancies that might never be realized ? Why
sow seeds of love and hope that never were to blossom?


Captain Burford came to answer for himself.
He had missed his dear Jessie, and was searching
for her.

What are you about, Jessie ? " he asked coming
suddenly upon her in the midst of a long, deep
reverie, during which Tiny had absolutely fallen
asleep, with her head upon her lap ; " what business
have you to creep away by yourself here ? I
expected you to do the honours, as if you were my
daughter, which, you know, you are to be ; and
here  '

' Oh, do not say that, if you please, dear Captain
Burford \" said Jessie, feeling much inclined
to burst into tears, but restraining herself with a
violent effort: I should be so much obliged if
you would not say that again. You must not,
indeed you must not."

The dickens is in the young people, I think,"
said the Captain, violently stirring the fire, and
arousing Tiny by so doing : " here's Nelson, with
his face as long as my arm, seriously advising me
not to say those kind of things; and now you
come, like a tragedy queen, and *if you please'
me, and ' dear' me, and beg me not to do the very
thing I like best, and to talk about what has been
settled four and twenty years. I tell you what it
is. Miss, I will talk about it if I like, and have it
done, in spite of  "

"Hush! if you please; do  do not,  here is
Nelson," interrupted Jessie, with a voice of alarm.

"The deuce take Nelson and aU such fools !'
said the Captain heartily.

Nelson evidently heard his father s affectionate
consignment of him to that enigma " the Deuce
for he looked confused ; still he fulfilled his purpose.


"Will you dance the last country dance with
me, Jessie ?" he said : " we have not danced together
tonight.

More shame for you to say so, under the circumstances'
said the, Captain angrily.

Jessie hastily put her arm into Nelson's, and
walked away.

"Come, little one, you must dance with me''
said the good-natured Captain, bearing off Tiny.

Jessie found the dance formed : Anna was dancing
with Mr. Michelson, to the chagrin of Chatham
and Aunt Betsey, who, by some strange chance,
had fallen together. Pynsent and Louisa Colville
looked the merriest of our friends, as they stood
vis-a-vis ; but as for Nelson and Jessie they had
not a word to say to one another. The former felt
that his father had been talking of him in connection
with a subject which of all others he dreaded
to have named to Jessie ; and the latter now knew,
to her sorrow, that he disliked its being mentioned.
They were no longer the happy, blushing, innocent

children affianced like a second Paul and Virginia,
but the young man and woman, modelled by the
world, and changed by the magic wand of passion
and shame; and one short week had sufficed to
effect all this.

Dances, and all the cross purposes they invariably
bring about, must, like everything else, have
an end. Captain Burfords had been a very merry
one, and many a flushed face was laid upon the
pillow that night that would gladly have flushed
on a similar party on the morrow. Various were
the opinions broached in the covered car as it rolled
merrily towards Fairfield.

The following morning came a note to Miss
Colville from Lady Mansford, inviting her to pay
her a visit at Mansford Park, and begging her to
convey an invitation to the Miss Burtonss to accompany
her. She proposed sending her carriage
for them the following week, and hoped nothing
would prevent their accepting her invitation, as
she was very anxious to make their acquaintance.

I would rather not go," said Louisa Colville.

Oh, I should like it of all things !" exclaimed
Anna.

You, my dear !" said Aunt Betsey ; " what,
visit a person who has almost cut your whole
family for years V

"Oh, that is over and gone, Aunty. Besides,
she has been so kind in writing to Lady Georgiana
Meredith about me, that I am sure we ought not
to think of old times."

"That is all her prides said Aunt Betsey; "she
is very glad to patronize us Burtonss."

Oh, I am sure Lady Mansford is not proud,"
said Anna.

Well," interposed Pynsent, " save me from
visiting people who think themselves above me,
and that they are conferring a great favour by inviting
me. I would rather go and spend a week
with our old Lizzy Dorian ; I should feel at home
there. What do you say, Jessie ?"

"That there is at least as much pride in your
view of the matter as in Lady Mansford s, supposing
her to be a proud woman, which seems
doubtful."

And* are you going to accept her invitation ?"
asked Pynsent, with a look of horror.

Certainly not," said Jessie, " but I hope
Louisa will : it would be very pleasant for her to
become acquainted with some of her mammals
friends before she goes to India."

I would rather not go, and would not go alone
for the world," said Louisa.

"I will go with you," said Anna; "I should

like it so much. Aunty, don't look cross ; I am
sure you will be glad for me to amuse myself as
long as I can V and she threw her arms coaxingly
about Aunt Betseyss neck, who was always gained
over by her nieces entreaties.

' I always thought you the proudest girl in the
world until now," said Pynsent : "  how are the
mighty fallen V "

Uncle Timothy," exclaimed Anna , slipping
round to her uncle, who was reading the newspaper
by the fire, and putting her face between
the paper and his face, ' do you think there is any
want of pride in my going to visit Lady Mans-ford
?" 

 Really, my dear, I do not understand those
things. Please yourself, and, provided you do nothing
wrong, you will please me. What does
Niece Jessie think ?"

It is so much a matter of taste. Uncle," said
Jessie : '' T should not like to go myself, but, as
Louisa does not like going alone, and Anna wishes
it"

 Just so, my dear ; you are always right. If
Miss Colville goes , I think Anna should go. Lady
Mansford has been kind in interesting herself
about Anna, and she must not show any incivility
in return."

Anna gave her uncle a kiss , and looked triumphantly
at Pynsent, then said, turning to
Louisa  

It rests with you, Louisa ; and the messenger
waits for an answer. Will you come upstairs?
and we will concoct one."

"Do you really think I ought to go, Jessie?"
asked Louisa : " it will be a great bore."

' Perhaps your mamma might wish it, as you
are so near Lady Mansford: it would seem unnatural
to refuse."

What am I to say for you ?"

That I am very much obliged, but too much
engaged to accept her invitation."

The two friends left the room.

Anna will be ruined," said Pynsent, " by all
the admiration and flattery she is sure to get.
Depend upon it, every ball and party she goes to
will unfit her more and more for the situation she
will fill."

But, my dear nephew, she is so young," said
Uncle Timothy deprecatingly.

If she is old enough to be a governess, she is
old enough to act prudently," said Pynsent, and
left the room.

There is a great deal of common sense in what
Pynsent remarked," said Uncle Timothy ; " he is

really wonderfully clever and discriminating for
such a youth ; and as to his profession I would
trust him in cases where I would not trust many
an older practitioner."

"He would not like to hear you call him a
youths said Jessie, laughing -, " he is nearly three-and-twenty."


"He is very steady-and good," said Uncle
Timothy; "I had a long conversation with him
yesterday upon his future prospects ; and although
I offered him a share in my practice , as my assistants
he determined to remain in the country on
your account."

"He is the best and kindest brother in the
world," said Jessie; "but I know how much he
longs to live in London, so I hope he will not refuse
your kind offer."

"He seems quite to have made up his mind,
and such a sacrifice is likely to be of more moral
service to him than all the reputation he might
gain in London in the next fifty years. Besides,
there is a good opening here ; and he says he can
help you about the farm at the same time. Charles
has quite made up his mind to exert himself to
get well, and to come to me immediately."

My dear Uncle," said Charles, who was much
better since he had begun to strive against his

VOL. I. N

weakness ' it is really too much to impose upon
your kindness and generosity."

Not mine Nephew Charles ; you know Brother
James has determined that you shall not be a
farmer, because he declares that you would be his
ruin as well as your own ; so he means to pay for
your apprenticeship to the arts, and you are only
to live with me. Mr. Michelson told him that,
when you had studied in England, he would put
you in the way of getting to Italy."

"I ought to be thankful to the fever," said
Charles, " for bringing about my wishes : ' out of
evil bringeth goods "

I trust it may prove good, my dear boy. There
is no doubt that whatever happens to those who
earnestly strive to do their duty, and who trust to
the Almighty for guidance, is ordered by Him for
their eventual good. The most cloudy sky has a
sun beneath it, and the rainbow springs out of
unpromising moisture."

Uncle Timothy guilty of similes !" said Anna,
entering the room with a note in her hand. " I
always thought you had a poetical turn. How I
used to long for you when I had to write those
horrid themes at school ! I used to get on tolerably
till I came to the simile, and then I was obliged
to make Louisa help me : she has such a turn

for poetry. Here is the note, signed and sealed.
I am so glad Pynsent is gone : he is so cross'

"And have you quite decided upon going ?'
asked Jessie.

Yes, quite. Louisa thinks, with you, that she
ought to go, and she does not mind it, if I accompany
her. I shall so like to know that charming
Lady Mansford. I hope you do not disapprove of
it, Jessie ?

I think it will be removing you out of your
proper sphere, and placing you in an uncertain
position," said Jessie.

One would think we were born beggars, or
tradespeople at best," said Anna, with a toss of
her head. " I should like to know in what the
Mansfords are better than we are ?"

"In all that the world generally calls better,"
said Jessie,  " in fortune, rank, position, and education."


Not the last however, thanks to Uncle Timothy,"
said Anna, " and I am sure our family is as
good as theirs."

I should think so". said Aunt Betsey, drawing
herself up ; "I remember the time when my
grandfather and Sir Thomas Mansford s grandfather
were like brothers. But nobody thinks of
anythi g but money nowadays."

n2

 Riches make to themselves wings and flee
away ' said Uncle Timothy ; " and as to family,
we are all children of one common Parent. Our
position is that in which God has placed us, and
superiority in it is a mere matter of opinion. In
reality, he who does his duty best holds the highest
ranks

Oh, my dear Sir V said Aunt Betsey, " you
must admit there are great differences'

"Indeed I do. Madam. I see half the world
striving after things that are of no value, and
pluming themselves upon what they must shortly
leave behind them ; and the greater portion of the
other half living in idleness and folly : the smallest
part, I am sorry to say, is that made up of rational
human beings, who are content  to do their duty
in that state of life in which Providence has placed
them.' ''

"How well you remember your Catechism,
Uncle !'' said Anna.

I am glad to hear it, my dear ; I hope you
will remember it also, and do what it tells you."

You are all so prosy this morning'' said Anna.
Oh ! don't sigh and shake your head, darling Jessie
: I know what it means. I will be very good
and steady by-and-by, you shall see."

CHAPTER XIV.

There is no life on earth, but being in love ;
There are no studies, no delights, no business,
No intercourse, or trade of sense, or soul,
But what is love ! I was the laziest creature,
The most unprofitable sign of nothing,
The veriest drone, and slept away my life
Beyond the dormouse, till I was in love."

Ben Jonson.

To the great sorrow of everybody, Uncle Timothy
was obliged to leave on Friday. He consented to
Tiny's remaining at Fairfield as long as Miss Colville
did, as she was already looking all the better
for her visit, and beginning to feel at home. She
was a shy little dove, but she nestled warmly in
Jessicass gentle bosom, and began to love her and
Charles very much indeed. Uncle Timothy told
Jessie that when he was quite superannuated he
meant to come and end his days with her at Fairfield;
"When all the rest are married, my dear,
and you are in want of a companions' he said.
Even Uncle Timothy fell into the general notion

that Jessie would never marry, although she was
a most comely maiden, and, as he well knev,
would make the best wife in the world. But he
could not imagine Fairfield without Jessie. Captain
Burford alone remained firm in his resolution,
that she should marry his Nelson, whether she
would or no : after four-and-twenty years of expectation,
he was not going to be disappointed.

Uncle Timothy took his departure, and the two
young ladies went to Lady Mansfords, leaving
Tiny, in addition to the family party, at home. She
and Jessie went about together, feeding poultry, and
doing all kinds of useful matters, which delighted
her greatly, whilst Aunt Betsey knitted, and Present
and Charles pursued their avocations. The
former took a surgery in the town, and set about
furnishing it with medicines, bottles, and pill boxes.
His friend and former master was thinking of
shortly retiring from the profession, and promised
to make Pynsent his successor ; meanwhile he \tas
to struggle for himself. He intended residing, or
rather sleeping, at Fairfield, and practising in the
town. This he knew was not so good a plan as to
have a residence in the town, but he resolved to doit
on Jessie's account, who, he foresaw, would be
lonely when they were all gone to their different
destinations.

Lady Mansford received her young guests very
kindly. Anna was enchanted with her, and Louisa
liked her very well. Sir Thomas was a tall, stiff,
aristocratic man, with manners as unbending as
his person, whilst his wife was the most voluble
and agreeable of women. She suited him very
well, because he disliked talking, and she had not
the least objection to doing double duty.

As Mr. Michelson was a neighbour of the Mans-fords,
they were on very intimate terms, and Chatham
had the entree of Mansford Park whenever he
liked. The sly-boots Anna knew that well, or the
pride of which Pynsent spoke so warmly would
undoubtedly have prevented her from visiting Lady
Mansford. Both Mr. Michelson and his son dined
at the Park almost daily, and, indeed, passed a
portion of most mornings there during the visit of
om young damsels. Miss Erskine was also there,
and very evidently not averse to the handsome
Chatham Michelson, intended for her husband by
her friend Lady Mansford, and his father. There
was a great deal of fun and gaiety going on in an
electioneering way, as Sir Thomas Mansford was
one of Mr. Michelson' s staunchest supporters ; and
political subjects brought together a great many
agreeable gentlemen, young and old, who were
most pleasant additions to the party at Mansford
Park.

Amongst these, it is scarcely necessary to say,
Annans beauty and fascination soon became a topic
of conversation, and of general admiration. Even
Sir Thomas Mansford waxed eloquent in her praise
and grew gallant when she was near. She dispersed
her smiles and her musical laughter amongst
them, as equally, and as unaffectedly, as the most
finished coquette could have done ; and if she gave
a brighter glance to Chatham, or a more friendly
smile to Nelson, when he dined at the Park, nobody
but the parties concerned knew anything about it.
It was no wonder that Nelson and Chatham had
both almost fallen in love with her at first sight,
for everybody else did the same. Old and young,
married and single  I may almost say, male and
female  were captivated by the "Fairy of Fairfield,
as Mr. Michelson had christened her. A fairy and
enchantress, a wild little magician and ogress she
undoubtedly was, and her wand was beauty, her incantations
were her charms,  her poisons, winning,
mirthful words. The " true blues rosettes and
bows she was making for Mr. Michelsons party
were seized upon with ardour by his voters, and
called the " Anna Burtonss" by the wearers, who
professed to know them at a glance from those
made by any other young lady. She had white
and red camellias for her hair, and bouquets of all

kinds and colours showered upon her, as if she were
some successful actress; and a successful actress
she certainly was  a perfect Jenny Lind, in the
simplicity and grace of her performance : for , whether
the effect of pure nature or consummate art ,
everybody acknowledged that her want of affectation
was her greatest charm. Her movements her
conversation, her very pride were all spontaneous
and unstudied. Had she had more self-control,
more restraint of manner, she would have been
happier and better, but not one tithe so much admired.
Her very faults found favour under cover
of her perfections.

To have gained so much of admiration, Anna
Burton must have outstrip her intended time at
Mansford Park, it will be imagined. She did so.
From day to day excuses were made to detain her
and Louisa ; and, rather to the dislike of the latter,
were accepted. Anna ruled Louisa entirely, and
had but to express a wish to have it gratified.

During this period, letters were passing between
Lady Mansford and Lady Georgiana Meredith,
concerning Anna. Lady Georgiana had written to
Miss Primmerton, and received a faithful catalogue
of her several accomplishments and deserts ; rather
heightened by Miss Primmerton' s desire to do hera
service. This, together with Lady Mansford's

N 3

favourable mention of hers induced Lady Georgiana
to enter into a correspondence with Anna which
finally ended in her engaging her to become her
governess. Anna liked the tone of Lady Georgians's
letters, because they were written in a
lady-like style, and so did Jessie, to whom they
were sent. She evidently did not expect to meet
with perfection in a governess or universal accomplishments.
Anna wrote in such a humble, simple
manner, that Lady Georgiana expressed herself
much pleased with her letter, and engaged her at a
salary of eighty guineas a year, to be increased, if
she remained any length of time with them, to a
hundred.

Everybody thought that Lady Georgiana was
very liberal ; and so, according to general practice
and opinion, she was. But she was a gentlewoman
and very well off, and she knew that to ensure a
good education for her children, she must pay for
it, therefore she did not even think of offering less.
Moreover she said to herself, "The labourer is
worthy of his hires and it must be pleasant to
wear away young life and health and feelings in the
arduous task of tuition, when liberally remunerated
and kindly treated, that when grudgingly paid
some twenty or thirty pounds a year, and condemned
to solitude and incivility therewith.

I am sorry to say that instead of examining her
mind testing her acquirements, and subduing her
pride, with a view to filling an important but subordinate
position in life, Anna passed the short interval
of holiday that remained to her in fostering an
attachment that had begun in vanity, for Chatham
Michelson. As she never did anything by halves,
of course she was oceans-deep in love. She did
not ask herself whether he were suited to her in
rank, fortune, temper, or character,  she only saw in
him a handsome, fascinating, accomplished officer,
the very man she had determined to marry ever
since she was a child. She could not help knowing
that if she liked him, he liked her twenty times as
much; so, almost in accepting Lady Georgians
offer, she congratulated herself upon the probability
of her making that lady's acquaintance in the
position of her niece, rather than hr governess.
Jessie wrote to urge her to come home, that she
might prepare her wardrobe for her change of situation
; but the spoilt pet returned such florid descriptions
of her enjoyment, and such melancholy hints
at the change she should soon have to endure, that
Jessie could urge it no longer, however much she
might feel the want of sisterly affection in Annans
absenting herself from home during those last few
weeks.

Everybody was made anxious and unhappy
through that unlucky beauty With which nature
had endowed Anna ; and, to tell the truth, she was
not perfectly at ease herself, although she did feel
convinced that she was treated like some divinity of
another clime by a whole band of admirers. She
knew that Jessie was distressed at her not retum-
uig ; that Pynsent was annoyed at her being where
she was ; and that Aunt Betsey's pride was irritated
on her account, still she could not prevail upon
herself to quit the gay scenes she was in, for the
dull happiness of Fairfield. Besides, there was to
be an election ball, and Mr. Michelson, as its donor,
was determined that the two belles should be there,
and Lady Mansford was quite as much determined
to chaperon them. True, Jessie by note set her
face against Anna's going; but Jessie not being
present to support her note, her influence faded
before the united Mansford and Michelson interest,
backed by that of a score of beaux.

The ball dress was the greatest difficulty. Anna
had no money, and she did not like to name the
subject to Jessie, because she knew that she could
not afibrd her one, however simple. Uncle Timothy
had told her to write to him before she left home
for any additions to her wardrobe; or rather to
write to her dressmaker, Madlle. Fourbillon, for

such clothes as she could procure better from her
than in the country. Should she write for the simplest
of ball dresses, instead of anything else ? It
would not be quite what Uncle Timothy meant,
but he would not mind it. She would write to him
by the same post, and explain how matters stood.

She did so. In reply to her letter to Madlle.
Fourbilloncame the most simple and elegant of white
dresses, looped up with gentianellas, and a wreath
of that flower for her hair. In reply to the one
she wrote to Uncle Timothy, arrived a very gentle
reproach, the first she had ever had from him, and
therefore very keenly felt. He said that he had
not included ball dresses in his list of clothes necessary
for her outfit ; neither did he think that she
would find ball-going a good preparation for the
life of study and retirement that lay before her.
She was right welcome to the dress, but he feared
it would be of little real service to her.

When Anna read the note, she resolved, in a
moment, to return the dress to its maker, and to
write to Uncle Timothy.

' Then he will have to pay the carriage back in
addition to the dress," suggested Louisa ; " for of
course Madlle. Fourbillon cannot be expected to
take it back, and it will be useless to your uncle."

Anna was posed.

" I hate the dress now, and the ball and everything
to do with it/ she said ; '' I would not have
offended Uncle Timothy for the world."

"But you have promised to go to the ball, and
Lady Mansford knows that the dress has come,
so what choice have you ?" said Louisa. And accordingly
to the ball she went.

Michelson Hall was magnificently lighted up
and adorned for the occasion. Guests of almost
all ranks were present, promised supporters of Mr.
Michelson. Amongst them were the officers of a
regiment quartered in a not very distant town,
who, together with Chatham and Nelson, were in
regimentals. This added greatly to the gaiety of
the scene, in the eyes of the young ladies at least,
and the question was, "Who will dance with the
officers?" as is usual in such cases; whilst their
question was, " Is there anybody worth dancing
with?"

Most of them found Anna well worth dancing
with, if one could judge from the succession of
military partners she found herself engaged to
during the night. Louisa Colville also had her
share of red-coats ; but she was by nature rather
shy and stiff with strangers, so did not get on so
well as her more sparkling friend ; moreover she
vas glancing so frequently at the door, as if she

were expecting an arrival that she was inattentive
to the conversation of her partners.

Mr. Michelson complimented Anna on her dress,
and expressed himself flattered by her having so
tastefully adopted his colour.

'I am disappointed he said, "that none of
your family accompanied you tonight. Surely it
is time to let bygones be bygones now."

Anna looked confused. Mr. Michelson led her
into a small refreshment room, upon pretence of
offering her some lemonade. The room was empty,
for dancing was going on. He begged her to sit
down, and placed himself beside her.

'' Do you think," he said, " that old differences
could not be patched up between us ? I have heard
of family quarrels being put an end to by a marriage
: what if we could so manage ours ?"

Annans heart beat quick ; she thought of Chatham.
Could it be? Could Mr. Michelson be
about to probe her feelings for his son? She
looked eagerly into his face. Oh, the beauty, the
fascination of that look ! Mr. Michelson felt it,
and returned it with one so admiring that Anna's
eyes fell beneath it.

Now, little Anna," he said, with a tender,
pleading voice, that he knew well how to assume,
I must tell you a secret. Ever since I saw you

first , a child, at a dance, at Captain Burfords, I
took a great fancy to you. I foresaw that you
would be a beauty, and that if you fulfilled your
promise, you would be a wife for a prince. I have
seen and watched you narrowly for the last three
weeks, and my admiration has strengthened, and
I have resolved to make you my wife. Shall we
just write an affectionate note to my sister-in-law,
and tell her we have changed our plans ? Will not
it be much pleasant to be mistress of Michelson
Hall, than to be a governess ? and to rule and instruct
me, rather than my nieces? We will do
our best to soften Aunt Betsey ; she is a very tine
woman, but did not exactly suit me; and as to
brothers and sister and guardians, they will readily
consent, I am sure.

Mr. Michelson paused, and attempted to take
the " Fairys' hand, but scarcely conscious of what
she did, she withdrew it. She could scarcely believe
that she was Annabella Burton, and that the
magnificent Mr. Michelson, and his ten thousand
a year, were at her feet. She rose, burning with
passion and anger, instead of gratitude. Had he
worded his proposal differently, she might have felt
at least grateful ; but as it was, not even all the
splendour of the mansion, its paintings, conservatories,
and various beauties, which to an ambitious

maiden always possess charms, could do away with
the indignation she felt.

'rand do yon think, Mr. Michelson," she said,
standing before him and speaking rapidly, "that
I am a slave, to be bought and sold at will ? Are
the Burtonss fallen so low that one of the daughters
of their house shall be wedded even without being
wooed, because riches and position are held out to
her ? Do you think me a baby, that you tel me
you will condescend to marry me, even before you
have asked me ? Do you suppose, that because
circumstances compel me to become a governess,
that I am to lose my self-respect, my womanly
feelings, my very right of choice, and to marry the
first man who asks me, even though he be older
than my own father was ! You might have known
women better, had you studied them, than to imagine
them so mercenary  so base. At least you
should have known a Burton better. Pride, people
say, is our characteristic and our bane : for
once, at least, it shall be our safeguard. To insult
me in your own house ! I will leave it at once,
even if I walk home."

Hitherto Mr. Michelson had listened in perfect
astonishment. He felt alternately annoyed, insulted,
angered, and amused, at the way in which
his proposal was received. The hint at his being

older than her father had been the most galling ;
but when she spoke of leaving at once fear overpowered
every other feeling. He knew what the
world would say if she did so.

Swallowing his passion as best he mighty he
said 

 You are the best judge, Miss Annabella, of the
propriety of what you have said ; but one thing I
beg to insist upon. You cannot leave my house
until Lady Mansford does, or you will cause an
unnecessary gossip in the neighbourhood. I suppose
no young lady is anxious for that kind of
eclat. Of the rest we may be able to talk again
when you are calmer, and have thought over all
the advantages of my proposal ; but I consider that
if any one has been insulted in this house, it is I.'

Anna did not condescend to reply to this speech,
but with the grace and dignity of a Cleopatra she
turned away and left the room. Scarcely had she
reached Lady Mansford and Louisa, who were
looking for her, than simultaneously Chatham
Michelson and Nelson came up, and asked her to
dance the next dance with them. Not well knowing
what she did, or who was before her, she made
a kind of movement of acquiescence, and put her
hand on Chathamss arm, who led her towards the
quadrille that was forming. Nelson looked hurt

and ruffled and soon after Louisa, who had watched
the proceeding narrowly, saw him leave the room.
He did not return again.

"What is the matter ? asked Chatham, when
he remarked Annans agitated manner and flushed
face. "Has any one annoyed you? I am sure
something must have happened. You left the
room with my father. Where is he ? Oh, there !
just coming in. He looks as if he had been in a
passion; I always know when he is irritated, by
the large vein in his forehead. Has anything occurred
between him and one of the servants in
your presence ? ''

"Nothings said Anna, rousing herself; "but
the heat is so great, and I have danced so much,
that I feel rather tired. Is Lady Mansford likely
to go home soon ?  ~

"I hope not, said Chatham. "I am afraid
you have not enjoyed yourself; still you ought to
have done so, for surely you have been of all others

The cynosure of neighbouring eyes.' "

Anna got through the quadrille with some difficulty,
scarcely replying to Chatham s various questions
and remarks upon her abstraction. She
would have given much to have gone home, but
she knew that there was truth and propriety in
what mr. Michelson had said, and she had just
self-command enough to walk through the dance.

The fact was, that she was in a real, downright
passion.

I do not think you are well  you look so
flushed' said Chatham. " Shall I ask Lady
Mansford to allow you to be sent home ? The carriage
can return for the rest of the party."

No, I thank you ; I would rather remain."
For a moment she felt stiff even towards Chatham,
as if everybody connected with Mr. Michelson were
odious to her.

'shave I offended you?" asked Chatham, anxiously.


No," was the brief reply.

'' Has any one offended you?"

No answer.

' When do you return home ? "

"Tomorrow, decidedly."

"When are you going to Plas Byron?"

In about a week or ten days, I believe."

The election is the day after tomorrow, and the
following day I am to join my regiment."

Oh ! " said Anna, feeling a sharp pain at her
heart.

"Will you allow me to call on you tomorrow
afternoon?"

Certainly, if you feel inclined."

Will your brother be displeased ? He has
never invited me to Fairfield."

I do not know : but I scarcely think he will
be at home."

Can I hope for a private interview with you?"

It is impossible for me to say."

Another thrill through the throbbing heart, but
no visible emotion, save that of haughty, defiant
pride.

' I cannot conceive how I can have displeased
you."

I am not aware that you have displeased me."

This brief conversation, carried on during the
pauses in the quadrille, partially restored Anna to
her self-possession. She saw what Chatham must
want with her, and a thousand real and visionary
hopes and fears crowded through her niind. She
felt that she ought to say something, but knew not
how to begin. At last, with a great effort, and the
same hauteur , she said 

I do not know whether Pynsent was too proud
to ask you to Fairfield, Captain Michelson ; but
your father has evidently been too proud to bring
you there. He probably would not like you to
visit us."

I do not ask my father whom I am to visit,"

said Chatham, colouring in his turn ; "1 am old

enough now to go where I Hke, even if I cannot

return when I like. I will call on you tomorrow."

Here the final graceful glides and slides of the

quadrille brought to a conclusion a conversation
in which much of the happiness or misery of two
human beings was involved.

Shortly after Lady Mansford ordered the carriage.
Mr. Michelson and Chatham were in attendance,
but Anna contrived to secure Sir Thomas's
arm, and thus left Mr. Michelson to Lady Mans-ford,
and Chatham to the two young ladies. As
they got into the carriage she made Mr. Michelson
a haughty bow, which he returned with a look so
full of anger that, for the first time, she feared him.
No one could have believed that the agreeable, gentlemanlike,
clever Mr. Michelson, whose suavity of
manner was so remarkable that some of his foreign
friends called him le suave, could have worn such a
frown on his broad, open forehead; or darted such
a glance from his large, bold blue eye. But to
know Mr. Michelson, as well as many other charming
people, we must try to catch him at home. Fortunately
for him, for his son, and for his servants,
he is scarcely ever at home : the world being his
home, and he constantly in a new corner of it, he
is rarely to be found in private life. Tomorrow
however, when he must be at home for a few hours
at least, we will again look in upon him, and see
whether we can find out his true character beneath
that most perfect suavity which he wears, as 
The head and front of this offending."

CHAPTER XV.

Ye gallants bright, I rede you right,

Beware o' bonnie Ann ;
Her comely face sae fa' o' grace,

Your heart she will trepan.
Her been sae bright, like stars by ni J'ht,

Her skin is like the swan ;
Sae simply laced her gently waist,

That sweetly ye might span."  Btjens.

The breakfast at Miclielson Hall was late the
following morning, and yet Mr. Miclielson sat at
the table alone. He appeared to bave finished,
and to be waiting, not very patiently, for the
appearance of a companion. He looked gloomy
and angry ; and although he had the Somersetshire
paper open before him, and professed to be reading
the opinions of the press upon the forthcoming
election, he could scarcely have told any one what
those opinions were. At last he got up and rang
the bell. The footman answered it.

Tell Captain Michelson that I have finished
breakfast, and am waiting to see him before I go
out. Say that T have not a moment to lose, as

I must be off immediately' Mr. Michelson fidgeted
about for nearly a quarter of an hour walked
up and down the room, looked out of the window,
resumed the paper, muttered some inaudible sentences,
and finally rang the bell again.

Did you give my message to Captain Michelson
?'' he said to the footman.

Yes, Sir ; he said that he would come as soon
as he was dressed'

Chatham entered, as if the second bell had summoned
him as well as the servant : it certainly was
a most imperative pull. He sat down to breakfast
with as much nonchalance as he could assume, and
began to pour out his coffee.

'1 wanted to see you, Chatham, before I go
away," began Mr. Michelson.

"Very well, Sir, the carriage is waiting," said
Chatham.

I believe you are to rejoin your regiment the
day after tomorrow ?" said his father.

"Yes; I just wait for the election, and that is
all."

Did you make any progress last night in the
affair that you know I am so anxious about ?" Mr.
Michelson made this inquiry as gently as he could.

What affair do you mean ?" asked Chatham
with assumed indifference.

"That of proposing for Miss Erskine. I am
sure you would not be refused and there is ro
time to lose, as you must leave so soon : you may
see her again today, and certainly will tomorrow'

I am not aware that I made any progress'
said Chatham.

'' No progress ! you mean, I suppose, that you
did not propose."

I certainly did not."

The vein in Mr. Michelson's forehead began to
swell.

"I presume you mean to do so today. You
know she is worth about fifty or sixty thousand
pounds. Everybody expects that you will marry
her ; indeed your attentions  "

My attentions ! Nobody can accuse me of
attentions, thank heaven ; I have been barely civil
to her."

Mr. Michelson's vein swelled larger.

But you are aware. Sir, that I fully intend her
for you, and that I have hinted as much to Lady
Mansford. Such chances do not occur every day."

I am sorry you should have mentioned your
intentions to Lady Mansford," said Chatham, feeling
indignant, "since they are not mine. I do
not mean to marry for money, and certainly am
not in love with Miss Erskine."

VOL. I. o

In love ! What nonsense you talk ! Who
marries for love nowadays? Fortune, rank, convenience,
anything but love, which is a word that
ought to be rubbed out of the dictionary; it is
only fit for babies or fools."

I suppose you married my mother for love ? "
said Chatham.

If I did, I could afford it. But she had rank,
which I wanted, and, in bringing me a good connection,
brought a fair exchange for my money."

That kind of bartering does not suit my notions,"
said Chatham.

"What right have you to have notions, Sir, at
your age, and dependent for your very bread upon
your father ?"

 Upon whom else should I depend ?"

Upon yourself."

How ? My profession will not support me,
and there is no chance of bettering myself by a
little timely fighting."

Then marry Miss Erskine, and be your own
master."

And let her support me ? I would rather beg
than be kept by my wife."

' Why not as well be kept by your wife as by
your father?"

' Surely nature gives us a strong claim on a

father, whereas the law alone can make a wife's
possessions ours/

Pshaw ! I suppose if Nature teaches yon to
fall in love and marry, she teaches yon to share
your wife's fortune''

"But I am not in love, at least not with Miss
Erskine, and therefore do not intend to marry
hers

And pray who may you be in love with, if not
with MissErskine?''

Here Mr. Michelson's vein swelled to its fullest
extent, and Chatham also grew red.

"I did not say I was in love with any one,"
replied the latter.

But I ask whether you are in love with anyone
 the very expression makes me sick."

Since you ask me. Father, I must say that I
am, and that mine is an attachment that neither
time nor circumstances can wear away."

Oh, of course ; all ' attachments' are everlasting.
And pray who may be the object of your
attachment ? "

One that you must yourself acknowledge
worthy of it : one whom I have often heard you
praise to the utmost extent of praise  Miss Annabella
Burford, of Fairfield."

An expression of anger and passion so deep and

o 2

fierce overspread Mr. Michelsons whole countenance,
that his son was quite alarmed. He had
seen his father enraged frequently, but never had
witnessed such concentrated ire. It was a longtime
before Mr. Michelson could sufficiently command
his temper to speak, and when he did so, his
voice trembled, and he made repeated movements
of his hands towards his son, as if he would have
fallen upon him, but for mere decency s sake.

Do you mean to insult me by telling me you
are in love with that girl ? '' he said ; ' I tell you
what, Sir, I would see you starve before I would
let you marry her. Dare to propose for her, dai'e
to marry her, and you may both beg your bread
before I would give you a farthing : I would withdraw
your allowance, and drive you for ever from
my houses

Chatham was about to say that his father visited
the Burtonss, and had actually recommended Annabella
to his aunt, but he saw that it was not then
the time to do so. He was awed, and feared to reply
in any way, either haughtily or humbly, to the
harsh words he had heard. He remembered that
the man before him, though degraded by fierce
passion to the brute, was still his father. Seeing
that he was working himself up to increased anger,
he merely said 

'your carriage is waiting, and I have an engagement
; perhaps we had better defer this topic
to another opportunity' and left the room.

In about a quarter of an hour he saw his father
drive off, called for his own horse, and rode towards
Fairfield.

Whilst he is on his way thither we will take
a peep at some of our other friends, who have also
risen to a late breakfast, and are in different ways
influenced by the unhappy beauty who has fallen,
like some stray planet, amongst them.

Captain Burford and Nelson are silent over the
Times ' and their coffee for a longer space than
usual, the Captain being rather inclined by nature
to loquacity; he looks, to use a vulgar expression,
grumpy, and seems to wait for his son to say
something. The beautiful tortoiseshell cat, that
sits purring on his knee, is astonished that she
does not receive her usual allowance of toast and
butter, and finally mounts upon the table, with a
view to helping herself out of the cream-jug.

Down, Pussy \" says Nelson, stroking her sleek
coat, and gently lifting her off the table.

Well," begins the Captain, " I must be off for
this confounded voting. I wish there were no such
things as elections, or that they could be managed
differently."

I do not think Mr. Michelson will succeeds
said Nelson.

The deuce you done ! and you suppose we
shall have a Whig member for Somerset ? Then
111 leave the county.

You had better accompany me upon my tour ;
it would do you a vast deal of goods

Tour ! where are you going so soon ? I should
have thought that you would be glad to spend the
first six months at home, at least.

''Why, Douglas intends returning to India
shortly, and he wishes me to pay him my visit
before he leaves home. I believe I must go now,
or not at all."

In the Captain s mind the following reflections
were passing : 

' Airs right ! By the time he comes back Anna
will be safe in Wales, and then he will be sure to
turn his thoughts to Jessie again. Besides, he
cannot care so much for Anna after all, or he
would not go away just before she is thinking of
leaving. Ay, all's right." The last " alPs right"
the Captain uttered aloud; and from the sudden
change in his face and manner. Nelson perceived
that he was pleased,  at what, he could not imagine.

'You seem glad to get rid of me, my dear
father," said Nelson, feeling mortified.

No , not exactly that's said the Captain, who
never yet knew what it was to conceal a thought,
much less an action ;  but I have my reasons for
wishing you to go now, rather than by-and-by/

Nelson knew precisely what the reasons were,
and thought that they were not quite unlike his
own. He determined to go from home at once,
to avoid the fascinations of one who, he perceived,
did not care over-much for him; but he
had not any intention of returning to another.
Anna Burton, or single blessedness, for him ! He
might exist in solitary misery, but never wed anyone
but her. How such a father could have such
a son is quite an enigma ; unless in this case, as in
others, extremes meet. Captain Burford was as
open as day. Nelson as secret as night. If the
former was glad or sorry, contented or discontented,
sick or well, rich or poor, pleased or displeased,
everybody connected with him must participate
in his humour, and sympathize with him ;
whereas, if the latter were at the summit of his
earthly hopes, or in the depths of sublunary disappointment,
nobody knew it but himself. The only
confidant he had ever had was Jessie, and in her
he could no longer confide : why, he did not confess
even to himself.

' Father," he said, after a pause, ' you will be

SO good as to remember your promise of not attributing
any intention of getting married to me. I
assure you I do not mean to marry. In short, I
do not think it likely I shall ever marry. I am
bent on making glory my bride, and feel that the
longer I am absent from my professional duties
the more distant is my wedding-day."

My dear son, you know my wishes ; and the
truth is, I cannot help expressing them. If I try
to keep them in at one corner of my mouth, they
are sure to burst out at the other; and dang my
buttons, Sir, as James Barnard says, if they shall
not be gratified in spite of you ! Not that I mean
to force your inclinations. You may marry glory
if you like; but take my word for it, the slut
Avill leave you a widower, and then you will come
back to you know who, but we never mention
names."

Here Captain Burford rose from the breakfast-table,
and went to prepare for his electioneering
matters, whilst Nelson remained awhile deep in
thought. Of course he was thinking of Anna :
young men never think of those whom their fathers
and mothers request them to think of. His
reflections were not agreeable. He thought of her
as a consummate little coquette, who was trying
to attract not only Mr. Michelson and Chatham,

but everybody else she came near ; and the worst
of the matter was she succeeded.

Whilst Nelson slowly rises to prepare to accompany
his father, we must look in upon another late
breakfast-table, and see in what state of mind the
cause of all this uneasiness finds herself.

Anna Burton looks somewhat pale and weary,
but excited. She is earnestly declaring to Sir
Thomas and Lady Mansford that she must return
home immediately after breakfast.

' But, my dear Miss Burton/ says Lady Mans-ford,
" Sir Thomas is going to use the carriage,
and therefore you have no choice but to stay."

' Oh ! if he will only drive us to the turnpike,
we can easily walk the rest of the way ; or if you
will kindly tell the turnpike-gate keeper to send
to my sister, she will send at once for us. It is
really necessary that I should be at home now.'

But why today'' asked Lady Mansford; " it
is cruel to leave Miss Erskine and me alone. All
the gentlemen will be away."

I am very sorry," stammered Anna, looking
imploringly at Louisa Colville, " but I do not feel
very well."

' Oh ! we will nurse you ; and tomorrow wee
shall have a famous party,  all the beaux in the
country."

o3

I think we really ought to go today, Lady
]Mansford/ said Louisa. " Miss Burton has written
so often to fix the day for our return, that we
must not put it off any longer.

' I expected a supporter in you, Miss Colville/'
said Sir Thomas, " and you, too, are turned against
us. But if you are quite decided, all I can say is
that I am very sorry. To tell the truth, I am
going with Mr. Michelson this morning, and the
carriage is therefore at your service; only I hope
you will change your minds."

Anna shook her head, and said she was very
sorry, but she must go.

Then I must wish you good-morning, as I am
to meet Michelson at the Lodge; I must not say
good-bye, but cm revoir" And Sir Thomas left the
breakfast-room, to go, like all the rest of our male
friends and acquaintances, to vote for Michelson.

No, not all. We must make one exception, and
travel to one more breakfast-table to make it. We
must go back some two or three hours, since a
Fairfield breakfast is punctually at eight o'clock,
and Jessie is always ready, and the tea made, a
quarter of an hour earlier.

Uncle James has ridden over at dawn, to talk
about the election ; and he, Pynsent, Charles, and
Tiny are assembled. They have always to wait



some minutes for Aunt Betsey, who cannot bring
herself to be quite punctual, particularly in the
winter.

"Why, Pynsent, I never knew you so stubborn'
said Uncle James, holding his knife and
fork rather inelegantly on end, and letting a thin
slice of ham dangle on the prongs of the latter.
"What objection can a youth like you have to
vote with your uncle ? Besides, Mr. Michelson
has been so kind to you."

That is the worst part of it," replied Pynsent ;
I wish all his bottles of wine and baskets of fruit
were with Pharaoh and all his host. Once for all.
Uncle, I cannot vote for Mr. Michelson. I don't
like him or his politics ; and I am not going to sell
my birthright, like Esau, for a mess of pottage."

What does the boy mean ? How these young
chaps do get on !" muttered Uncle James. " Good
morning, Ma'am," he added, in a flurried manner,
as Aunt Betsey made her appearance ; " I am trying
to persuade our nephew Pynsent to vote for
Mr. Michelson, and he begins to talk about a mess
of pottage."

Well, Uncle, my birthright as an Englishman
is liberty to vote according to my conscience ; and
the mess of pottage is the wine and fruit. I think
it a very apt simile."

But your father was a Tory, boy ; and you area
Tory, Maam, if I doiiH mistake V"

Decidedly' said Aunt Betsey ; '' but Pynsent
is quite unlike the rest of us."

My father was not a Tory of the Michelson
school, a milk-and-water, half-and-half mixture,
but a downright glass of original strong spirits'
said Pynsent j ''and if Mr. Michelson were like
him, I might almost be brought to vote for him :
but as it is, I beg to decline. He doesnH know
what he is himself yet, and nobody else can guess.
He is an old fop and dandy, and cares for no one
but himself."

He is very kind," whispered Tiny, " and says
he will help Charley."

Indeed ! We are much obliged to him. I am
thankful to say we can help ourselves. But you
are a good little girl to take his part."

"Come, Jessie," said Uncle James, "see what
you can do with Pynsent."

"DonH ask me. Uncle," said Jessie; "I could
not wish him to do anything against his conscience.
I am no politician myself; but I confess I like to
see a man one thing or another. I would rather
have Captain Burford's red-hot Toryism than Mr.
Michelson's ' all things to all men.' "

"Miss Betsey, won't you say something?" said
Uncle James.

Pynsent has long ceased to think anything of
my advices replied Aunt Betsey.

"The long and short of the matter is," said
Pynsent, swallowing hastily his last mouthful of
bread-and-butter, " I have no time to vote at all.
Do you not know that I am a professional man,
and every hour of my day is cut out ? I dare say I
shall find my surgery full against I get there. Let
me see, I have one old woman with sore eyes ; an
old man with inflammation of the windpipe; a
boatman's child in the croup. And as to my aristocratic
patients,  why, they are really unmentionable."


"You always make a joke of everything," said
Jessie, laughing.

"A very comfortable characteristic," replied
Pynsent ; " one must be jocular to make a bit of
fun out of the obstinate fools I have to deal with.
That same old man, for instance, my first patient,
I told him to put a mustard plaister, or some turpentine,
to his throat ; and when I came back, he
had not done it, and his throat was really in an
alarming state. I asked the reason.  He wasn't
going to burn himself to death with them hot
nostrums. He never heard of such a thing all his
days ; and wasn't going to begin now. He snowed
what a blister was, very well, and what leeches

was; but lie be dashed if heM be cooked with
mustard and turpentine "

' Haw ! haw ! haw !" roared Uncle James till
the oaken ceiling rang, "you're a fine fellow,
Pynsent, but the old 'un had his peculiarities. I
vow I should like the application either. '

But I had it done, Uncle, nolens volens : and
now I am off" to repeat the dose if the throat is not
betters

'But the election?" began Uncle James once
more : ' will you come with me, and vote for
us?"

"Have you any conscience?" asked Pynsent.
Will you come with me, and vote for the opposite
party ? Mr. Michelson is not my landlord."

Do you mean to say. Sir, that I am influenced
by being a tenant of Mr. Michelson?" said Uncle
James, getting red.

I do not think you would vote for him if you
were not his tenant," replied Pynsent somewhat
bluffly.

Jessie saw that a storm was rising, and hastened
to lull it.

<c TJierg is nothing to be made of Pynsent, Uncle,
when he takes a thing into his head ; so the best
way is to let him alone. Pynsent, you had much
better go to your old man, or he may be burnt to

death by this time. I hope you told him when to
take off his plaister ; or depend upon it he has got
it on still. I once applied one and my patient
resolutely kept it on for nearly three horse's

"What was the result ? asked Pynsent , getting
interested.

"Why his wife came to entreat me to let Tom
take off that dreadful mustard : he was in such a
state there was no living with him : she thought
he was going mad. I got into a fright, and returned
with her : and certainly Tom was almost
out of his mind. Imagine his state when the
plaister was removed : he tore about the room,
raving at me and the plaister by turns. But he
was thoroughly cured, and the threatened inflammation
of the chest departed."

Dear me ! " said Pynsent, " could any one be
so ignorant ? Good morning, Uncle ; I must see
after my mustard."

I think you want a little cress with it," growled
Uncle James; "you're the most obstinate, impudent
dog I ever saw. Jessie, will you order my
horse? I must go without him, I suppose." ,

Uncle James departed in a bad temper, and the
rest of the family set about their usual avocations
until two o clock, when, to their surprise, Anna
and Louisa arrived. Scarcely had a few questions

been put and answered when Anna beckoned Jessie
upstairs ; and, going into the bedroom of the latter,
bolted the door, and throwing her arms round her
sister, burst into tears.

Jessie was alarmed ; but it was some time before
she could obtain an explanation of Annans emotion.
At last she elicited the history of Mr. Michelson's
proposal , and of Chatham s attentions and intended
visit ; together with a partial confession of
Anna's attachment for Chatham, which she was
led to suppose, from her manner rather than her
words to be, unfortunately, as strong as all her
attachments were.

Jessie's keen common sense perceived at once
that no good could arise out of such an unfortunate
combination of circumstances. She tried to stem
Annans indignation against the father, and to point
out the madness of encouraging the admiration of
the son, but in vain. She considered herself insulted
by the proposal of the one, and honoured
by what she foresaw would be that of the other.
Jessie set to work to manage the private interview
which was evidently pending. Aunt Betsey was
the difficulty. She asked Louisa Colville to propose
a walk. She did so, and the proposal being
accepted, she and Aunt Betsey set forth and took
Tiny with them. Jessie then told Charles, in few

words, the state of the case, and he betook himself
to his own room to meditate upon it. As soon as
Anna was sufficiently composed, the sisters went
together to the parlour, and there awaited the arrival
of Captain Michelson. Jessie did her best
to impress upon Annans mind the propriety and
necessity of some degree of caution and reserve
with one of whom she knew so little; and she
entreated her not to rush into an engagement with
him, supposing he should wish it, under the present
circumstances. On the other hand she endeavoured
to brace her mind against the possibility
of his being, like so many of whom she had heard
and read  his father, for example  merely an admirer
of good looks, and not one who wished to
marry.

Anna always listened to her sister with the docility
of a child. She was the only one who could
influence her. Wilful and almost imperious with
others, with her she was still in leading-strings 
the strong leading-strings of affection. She looked
upon Jessie as wholly superior to every one else in
the world, in all, excepting mere beauty and accomplishments
; and not even the strict propriety
of Miss Primmertons, or the careless gaiety and
ease of Sir Thomas Mansfords, had succeeded in
shaking her faith in her.

Chatham arrived and as most of my readers
have doubtless felt the sensation that the knock at
the door of an anxiously-expected guest sometimes
occasions through the whole frame beginning at
the heart and vibrating every nerve, I need not
describe how Anna trembled, and turned from pale
to red ; and how even Jessie got up and sat down
twice before he came into the room.

No one would have supposed, from Chathamss
appearance, that he had come to make a declaration
of love. His handsome and usually joyous face
was clouded and melancholy. He scarcely knew
how to begin any kind of conversation ; and when
Jessie spoke of the ball, and made an effort to
break through the restraint they were all feeling,
he scarcely cared to reply.

After what she considered a proper space for
propriety, Jessie left the room. She tried to busy
herself about various household duties : she could
not perform them. Her heart was with the darling
sister committed to her care by her mother on her
death-bed: her, for whom she would gladly have
sacrificed her own happiness, but who, she foresaw,
would have much to suffer in this life. 'She went
to her own room, and there she sought to tranquillize
her mind, and to think over what would
be the right course to pursue, under the different

aspects that matters might wear. As was her
custom in all hours of difficulty she committed
herself to her Heavenly Father for direction and
counsel feeling assured that He would guide, ashe
had hitherto done, His erring, orphan children
aright, and make all things work together for their
good.

CHAPTER XVI.

In one little body
Thou counterfeit' st a bark, a sea, a wind ;
For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea.
Do ebb and flow with tears ; the bark thy body is,
Sailing in this salt flood ; the winds, thy sighs,
Who,  raging with thy tears, and they with them, 
Without a sudden cain, will overset
Thy tempest-tossed body."  Romeo and Juliet.

Jessie , go to him ! do something,  say something,
I entreat yon ! " said Anna, bm-sting into
Jessie s room, and, as usual, casting her arms
around her.

What is the matter, Anna ? " asked Jessie.

I cannot stop to tell you now : he will be gone.
I tried to do as you told me, and I am afraid I
have gone too far. I have been rude, unkind, unjust
 for how can he help his father? But go
quick : be kind and gentle, and make up for my
hardness of heart."

Jessie ran down to the parlour, and found Chat-vol.

II. B

ham standing, hat in hand, as if uncertain whether
to go or stay, and looking the very picture of despondency.


'' Oh, Miss Burton, what can I do ? I have offended
your sister, and am wretched," he began,
seizing Jessie's hand as if he were grasping something
that must extricate him from his doubt and
difficulty.

She seems to think she has offended you,"
said Jessie quietly, "but she was so excited that
I scarcely understand what the difference is between
you."

"Can you spare me ten minutes, that I may
explain what has passed since your sister left
home ? "

"Certainly." Jessie pointed to a chair, and
seating herself on another, near Chatham, listened
as composedly as she could to his communication.
He told her in the first place that he was in love
with Anna, and wished to marry her. That he
had broached the subject to his father, who opposed
it vehemently. That he had requested an
interview with Anna to declare his intentions, but
was reduced by the wrath of his father to a mere
statement of painful facts. That he had believed
it right to state these facts to her, and that she
had received his communication most indignantly,

giving him to understand, indirectly, that his father
was his rival. She had acknowledged no affection
for him, but had declared that she would never
marry any one whose family were not proud to
receive her amongst them. That he had entreated
her to become engaged to him unknown to his
father, and to wait until he was his own master,
and could marry her in spite of opposition, but
that she had refused.

She did quite right," said Jessie steadily.

"I had hoped that you would have been my
friend'' said Chatham.

Not in the way you imagine : 1 should neither
be your Mend nor my sister's, if I encouraged anything
secret and clandestine. How are you to become
your own master, if I may be allowed to ask
so plain a question ? Is it by the death of your
father you look forward to being so ?"

Not exactly," said Chatham ; " I have nothing
at present independent of him ; but on the death
of my grandmother, my mother's only surviving
parent, I come into possession of about four or
five hundred a year."

"Perhaps if you were to become engaged to
Anna, it might make you desirous of her death,"
said Jessie simply.

B 2

God forbid ! She is the kindest and best of
women."

'" Then do not put yourself in a position to desire
it," said Jessie. " Have you no present means ?
I am sorry on your own account, that you should
be wholly dependent on any one, it must so cripple
your energies."

I have nothing but my pay, and that, with my
allowance from my father, barely suffices to keep
my stud and servant."

Jessie was silent.

Can you give me no hope. Miss Burton?"

I fear not : Annans happiness is too dear tome
to allow me to give you any."

What do you mean? Do you not think I
should devote myself to making her happy ?"

I do not know ; but that is not the question.
She could not be happy as a wife unless she were
one of her husband s family. She is proud."

But my father would have placed her in the
position of head of his establishment."

That is the very reason that he will not admit
her as such, being his son's wife. You, I am sure,
feel confident that he would never forgive you if
you were to marry her."

Chatham had nothing to say, and Jessie was
silent awhile, thinking. At last she added 

It is evidently impossible that you can marry
my sister now. It is doubtful whether you maybe
ever able to do so. Elderly people frequently
outlive young ones , and you may die before your
grandmother. Moreover you may change : I have
heard that soldiers are naturally given to change
their loves with their quarters." Here Jessie
blushed deeply , for she thought of Nelson. " Not
that I have any reason to suppose that you will
do so' seeing Chatham look angry. "The best
and most proper thing to look forward to is the
possibility of your father's relenting  "

"Never !' broke in Chatham. "I know him
too well. He does not love me or any one else
but himselfe

Hush ! " said Jessie, " a son should not lay
bare his father's faults." Jessie had been so used
to give advice and gentle lectures, that this hint
slipped out unawares, and Chatham for the first
time in his life took it patiently.

"May I see your sister again?" asked Chatham.


Why ? she would only show the proud side of
her nature if she came again ; and you had better
take my assurance that she is sorry that she said
anything to annoy you."

Does she  do you think she does  "

"What?"

Does she love another?"

'' I do not think she does."

I sometimes flattered myself that she preferred
me ; but then she has a way that no one else has,
of winning everybody, and making each fancy himself
the favoured one. Do you think she has any

regard for me ? does she does she love me, in

short?"

If I knew, I would not tell you. That she hasa
certain preference for you, I have no doubt ; but,
like yourself, she is young, and I do not think very
firmly settled in her opinions or attachments."

Then she will not be constant to me, you
think?"

I think you are both likely to change."

Miss Burton, I never saw any one so straightforward
as you."

' Am I ? I did not know it. I merely say to
you what I think, because it is right. I hope I
have not seemed rude or unkind : I did not mean
to be so. I fee] for you very much."

Here Jessie held ont her hand, and Chatham
impressed a very brotherly kiss upon it.

Will you go to her once more, and tell her
that I should like to part from her as a friend ? T
leave the day after tomorrow, and I know not when
I may see her again  perhaps never."

Jessie left the room. She found Anna in the

large chair by the fire, her face buried in her hands
on her lap, weeping bitterly. She delivered Chatham's
message. Anna rose, hastily wiped her eyes,
and said she would go to him. They descended
together.

' Come in with me'' said Anna, ' I am not
strong enough to resist anything that he may ask."

Chatham looked very much pained when he
saw Anna's pale cheeks and tearful eyes.

I have acted selfishly," he said ; " forgive me !
I ought not to have come here. I hope you are
not displeased with me ?"

Anna held out her hand, she could not speak.

'when you think of me," said Chatham, addressing
both sisters, " if you ever do think of me,
remember that I am almost alone in the world.
With apparent splendour, property, friends, a father
who is reckoned the patron of the arts and
an encourager of talent, a brilliant position in the
army, and some degree of reputation in society,
still I am a lonely man : I have no one to love
me."

Anna glanced into his eyes. Had he no one to
love him ? The answer was " Yes." He pressed
her hand.

But your grandmother, your aunt ?" said the
more matter-of-fact Jessie.

My grandmother dotes on me, and my aunt,
I believe, really loves me ; but  "

How many thousands are there in the Avorld
worse off than you!" said Jessie. "And oh ! try to
remember that we have all a Father in Heaven,
who is more to us, if we seek Him, than father,
mother, brother, and sister."

Jessie's solemn manner affected Chatham for a
moment ; but he was volatile, and, alas for him !
not religious. He smiled slightly, and whispered 

You do not say than  wife.' "

Jessie shook her head, and sighed.

Perhaps you may understand my words some
day," she said.

Footsteps were heard in the court. In spite of
his smile at Jessie's assurance of Divine aid, the
last words that he spoke, as he bent over Anna's
hand, were " God bless you !" How often are
those solemn words used when the heart is firmly
centred in some earthly object, and far removed
from the Great Being whose name is on the lips !

Chatham rushed through the passage, and found
his way out by the back-door. Anna hastened
upstairs, and, throwing herself on her sister's bed,
gave way to the most passionate grief. Had she
suddenly lost the sister she loved best in the
world, she could not have wept more bitterly than

she did at this separation from one whom she had
known but a few weeks. This is folly ; and against
such folly the mind should brace itself as with
bands of iron. Look to it ye young women, who
consider such partings as the one great grief of
existence ! and remember that you have no time
given you to waste in the outpouring of such
feelings. Your tears will be called for by-and-by,
for lifelong separations from father, mother,
brother, or sister,  perchance husband or child.
Spare then your tears for death-beds, scenes of
poverty and misery, or for the parting from the
beloved of years. Spare them for time misspent,
and unkind words and unholy thoughts; for be
assured, sooner or later, they will flow for such
things ; but oh ! waste not more than a few natural
tears of regret upon passing fancies and
worldly disappointments.

Jessie said with truth, that Anima had a sick
headache, and thus accounted for her non-appearance
that day. As soon as she was calm enough
to talk, Jessie tried to reason her into the conviction
that, as matters stood, it was better that
the separation between her and Chatham should
be final : but this she found impossible. Her one
great hope still was, that as soon as he was independent
of his father, he would marry .her. She

B 3

entreated Jessie not to tell Pynsent or Aunt Betsey
of her interview with Chatham, or its results.

I think that would not only be unwise, but
not quite right," said Jessie : " sooner or later it
must come to their knowledge, and then they
would justly accuse us of deceit and want of confidence.
Never, my dear Anna, let there be any
secrets in our family : we are left to our own
judgment young; let us help one another. Every
pleasure and pain that we share frankly, will serve
to bind us more firmly together. As to poor
Aunt Betsey, I own I shall dread to tell her about
Mr. Michelson : still, truth must be told ; and it
may serve to put an end to the foolish hope that,
I fear, she still has, of being yet married to
him."

I wish I were more like you, Jessie. I never
know how to act in difficult matters, and am always
following my own impulses."

 There is One above, dearest child, who will
teach us to subdue our impulses, and to act with
judgment and discretion, if we ask Him humbly."

When I begin to teach in earnest, and to feel
that others depend upon me, perhaps I shall be
better," said Anna meekly.

Let us pray that you may be kept from temptations'

said Jessie, the tears rushing to her eyes
as she looked on her beautiful sisters downcast
face. After all, that is the simplest and most efficacious
prayer. If we pray to God to remove the
temptation, we need not fear to fall into it.

Jessie and Aunt Betsey were closeted together
that evening till it was almost time to go to bed.
Pynsent had returned, and questioned Louisa Colville
upon the state of the household, but as she
knew nothing positive, she was prudent enough to
hazard no guesses. He proposed continuing certain
instructions in chess that he had been giving
her ; and she, nothing loath, sat down to be schooled
and politely scolded, and finally checkmated, by
the somewhat dogmatic and very straightforward
Pynsent. When they had played four successive
games, and when Tiny, tired of watching them and
collecting the men, had fallen asleep on the settle
by the side of Charles, Pynsent grew fidgety, and
asked Miss Colville to excuse him for a few minutes.
He went upstairs, and hearing sounds in
Aunt Betsey's room, he went thither. He stopped
a moment, when something like a sob met his ear.
He tapped at the door, and receiving no answer,
and hearing a repetition of the sob, accompanied
by Jessie's voice, he took the liberty of opening
the door. He found Aunt Betsey apparently recovering

from a fit of hysterics, and Jessie administering
cold water and smelling-salts.

"What is the matter ? he began.

Hush !" said Jessie, motioning him to the
door ; but he did not take the hint.

Aunt Betsey," he said, " what is the matter ?
Are you ill ?" and, in a professional way, he began
to feel the pulse. " Hysteria, from some mental
agitation. What can have happened to produce
such a quickened pulsation ?"

"My dear Pynsent! sobbed Aunt Betsey.
That vile man ! I call upon you to expiate  toto
 avenge my honour ! That ungrateful girl 
serpent  that I have nourished !" 

Here followed violent hysterics.

"Aunty! dear Aunty!" began Jessie, "she
could not help it."

Help what ?" asked Pynsent.

Mr. Michelson has proposed for Anna* whispered
Jessie.

"The old fool!" was Pynsents ungracious remark.


More hysterics.

Go and get me some sal volatile," said Present
to Jessie.

Jessie left the room.

Now, Aunt Betsey," said Pynsent, very sternly

as to words but with an irrepressible smile at the
corner of his mouthy which gave an unusually
comic expression to his features  I will trouble you
to be quiet. If you are not, I must have recourse
to the only remedy in such cases, a good shaking'

Oh , Pynsent ! if you only knew !"

I know very well that you are exposing yourself
most ridiculously. A pretty example to set to
your nieces ! You, a woman of fifty !" 

Forty  you know it is only just past forty V

Never mind, I thought it was sixty ; but it is
quite time you should give up such absurd notions.
Mr. Michelson has never given a thought to you
since you were three and-twenty, as you may now
see by  the old ass !  ' there is no fool like an old
fool '  by his falling in love with Annas'

Ah ! that is the dreadful part of it. She has
been trying to supplant me; she has  she has
used the most shameful arts V'

More hysterics.

Pynsent put himself into a pugilistic attitude.

Aunt, I see I must shake you, it is the only
cure'' laying his hands on her.

' Don't  I won't  I will  you cannot understand
these feelings. You have never loved."

God forbid !" exclaimed Pynsent, laughing
outright.

"Cruel, unfeeling boy! said Aunt Betsey,
shedding, for the first time, a few tears.

"Now, my good Aunt Betsey," said Patient,
slightly softening, " pray put an end to this nonsense
! Just reflect  at your advanced age V

"WTiat do you mean. Sir ?" (No woman ever
can bear an appeal to her age until she is a hundred,
when she gets proud of it as a singularity.)

"That at your age you should be thinking of
another world."

Here Jessie appeared with the sal-volatile.

"Miss Colville is waiting for you, Jessie, and
wondering what in the world has happened to disarrange
our evening. If you wil go to her, I
think I can cure Aunt Betsey."

Jessie lingered, but Pynsent looked so resolved
that she at last followed his direction ; Aunt Betsey
continued to sob, and rock herself to and fro.

Now, my dear Aunt Betsey," said Pynsent,
seating himself leisurely by the side of his patient,
having got over the actual hysterics, it wil be
necessary to master the rest of your complaint.
You must at once cease this sobbing, or I would
not answer for the consequences ; the swelling and
redness of eyes and cheeks, as well as the extension
of mouth, caused by hysterics, have been
known to remain, and disfigure a person for life."

What do you mean, Pynsent ?" said x\unt
Betsey, starting up from her chair, and rushing
towards a glass.

She certainly would not have liked to have been,
all her days, the object she saw before her. Her
passion for her own beauty was greater than for
Mr. Michelson. Pale and red alternated, and here
and there was a streak of a mixed shade, where the
rouge had rubbed off. The portion of beautiful
false black hair that was mingled with the equally
beautiful real, had come undone, and was visible
in its true light. Her eyes and cheeks were swollen,
and she looked altogether quite unlike the handsome
Miss Betsey Burton she usually saw herself
to be.

Pynsent, she said, " I am better now, and
should feel obliged by your quitting my apartments
(She always called her bedroom her
apartment.)

Certainly, Aunt, if you will give me one promise
first, and that is, not to make this foolish
affair further known ; and not to allow Anna to
fancy you are angry with her, for she could not
help it.

As to Anna, I will never speak to the ungrateful
girl again .' Here a slight sob began.

For goodness sake take care, Aunt. I really

feel alarmed already for your handsome face ; use
rose-water and remedies directly, or  ''

When you leave my apartment. Sir."

But Anna, Aunt ; I positively cannot go away
without a promise : she must not be persecuted for
what she could not help. Only fancy what your
own state of mind would have been in the time of
your youth and charms."

' Pynsent, you take liberties that I cannot permit."


I beg your pardon : I only mean that if you
had been scolded for all the lovers you were so
cruel as to reject, you could never have survived
even to your present age, much less to that we
fervently hope to see you arrive at."

Aunt Betsey never knew when Pynsent was
joking and when he was serious ; now, she fancied
he was joking, and reproached him accordingly.

It is very wrong of you to jest about the time
I may live, Nephew ; as if you did not care how
long or how short it was."

' I assure you, Aunty, I never felt less inclined
to jest in my life. You know we all love you
dearly, only we wish you to give up that horrible
man  don't mention him  I won't, and to content
yourself with your devoted nephews and nieces ;
unless, indeed, you should relent, and think of
Uncle James."

My dear Pynsent/ said Aunt Betsey , struggling
between another sob for the first-named lover
and a smile for the second "you talk quite absurdly
: will you leave my apartment ? it is very
late; and I feel overcome'

But Anna'' persisted the pertinacious Present.


I shall say nothing to hers do not be afraid j
she is beneath my contempt."

Good night. Aunty ; cheer up ; forget the 
hem  we won't mention him. There give your
unworthy nephew a kiss; you know I did not
make myself, so I cannot help not being like the
Burtonss."

Poor boy ! no : a pity , but we have not all the
same aristocratic natures ; good night. Stop, Present
 what application would you recommend for
my face ? I do think it is swollen."

Dreadfully, Aunt ! Cold cream, rose-water,
weak brandy-and-water."

Vulgar ! I hate brandy."

' But medicinally. Aunty : numbers use it medicinally,
who would scorn it as a beverage  even the
teetotallers, you know ; I understand that quite
fine ladies, looking upon it in that light, bring
themselves to drink it quite easily. Nasty, of course,
but so is all medicine. Good night,"

Here Pynsent shut the door, and soliloquized in
the passage.

I may as well have it over at once, and go and
congratulate Anna on her conquest."

He tapped at Jessicass bedroom door.

"Where is Anna? is she here? may I see her?"

She is in bed, and not well," said Jessie.

Then I must prescribe for her," entering the
room unceremoniously.

"So you have had your first proposal, Anna.
What did he say to you ? Tell me, if you please,
or I shall not sleep tonight : I am thinking of
making one myself. What, crying! and under
such auspicious circumstances ! Michelson Hall,
and ten thousand a year!"

Dear Pynsent, you do not know all," whispered
Jessie.

Tell him  never mind me," said Anna.

Forthwith Jessie related the events of the day ;
when she had concluded, Pynsent went up to
Annans bedside, and gave her a very hearty brotherly
kiss, which made Anna's tears flow again.

 Never mind, little beauty ;  all's well that ends
well,' and how do we know that all may not end
well yet ? Meanwhile let us try to forget the name
of Michelson, and return to good old Fairfield
times and ways ; I think you must give up Wales."

Oh no ! impossible P exclaimed Anna, sitting
up in bed, and feeling as if her brother were wrenching
out her last hope.

' Do you know, Anna, if you have really fallen
in love, you have committed the greatest folly of
which human nature is capable ; it unfits one for
everything else, and makes the wisest men noodles.
I never mean to fall in love : no, upon my honours'

' Then it is very obstinate and unkind of you,
said Anna, suddenly brightening up, and taking
Pynsent's hand energetically; "you know I set
my heart on your falling in love with dear Louisa
Colville. I was sure you would at first sight, and
if you do not before she goes, I shall think you no
better than a stones

' Bravo, Anna ! Do you think me at all suited
for a Miss Primmerton's young lady,  pretty,
sentimental, accomplished, fine, and an heiress to
boot,  I, a poor country apothecary with nothing
a year ?"

You are my brother, and she is my friend."

'Most excellent reasons both; but, between
ourselves, Miss Colville is not exactly to my taste :
she is very pretty, certainly, but she is too romantic.
I hate sentimental school girls, that talk of the
affections, and never have any real ones ; that fall
in love at first sight, and yet don't know what love

I am sure Louisa is not one of them ; she
never thinks of such things. But you are so vain
that I am certain, at heart, you think nobody good
enough for your's

 You are quite right, most learned sister. I
have a vast deal to do before I think of losing my
intellects. I shall want them to make a fortune
with, first ; and then I may be able to afford to let
them run wild  by which time, I fear your friend
Louisa will be Mrs. General or Colonel Somebody,
in the far East."

'' You are not barely civil to her."

'' I have been teaching her chess for two mortal
hours, and actually was polite enough to let her
win a game."

At all events she is a match for you in repartee."


Well, she does let out some quaint, dry, good
things now and then, that sound very original."

You should see some of her poetry."

Now you have gone too far ; a poetical young
lady ! the greatest horror in existence ! Do you
mean to say she writes poetry ? I will fly her society."


*' Then you will punish yourself, I am sure,"
here interposed Jessie laughing, " for when once
you get to know her, Louisa is the most agreeable

companion I ever met with. You see so little of
hers that she is not half at home with you yet : and
I think you make her nervous, because you are
naturally satirically'

I should say she was satirical," said Pynsent.

No, she is only droll : she says quaint, but not
unkind things."

Well, at all events, I am not in love with her,
which was, I believe, the beginning of Annans
pathetic appeal; and we are turning night into
day, and I came here to congratulate Anna on her
first proposal, and now I congratulate her on an
escape."

I thought you liked Captain Michelson," said
Anna hastily.

So I do, as a gentlemanly, kind-hearted fellow,
but he might not make a good husband for all that;
we win not discuss him now, however ; so give mea
kiss, and be a good girl, and done cry. Goodnight,
and God bless you both."

CHAPTER XVII.

Lie is a strange and wayward child,
That Elsie of ours. She looks so old,
And thoughts and fancies weird and wild
Seem of late to have taken hold
Of her heart that was once so docile and mild !"

Longfellow.

We must pass over somewhat hastily the events of
the next few weeks. Aunt Betsey did not make
her appearance amongst the family party for two
or three days,, and saw only Jessie, who confided
to Present, between smiles and tears, that she had
procured a large bottle of rose-water, a small one
of brandy, which was labelled " cordial," and some
eau de Cologne, all of which she applied from time
to time to her face. When she did come downstairs
again she was very stiff and formal, but perfectly
civil to Anna, who, after making a few efforts
to get into her good graces again, became careless
and distant in turn. Anna did her best to appear
cheerful, and when Uncle James or Captain Burford
rallied her upon having left her heart at Mans-ford

Park, she tried to laugh at their joke, and to
seers as merry as ever.

Mr. Michelson lost his election, and, disgusted
with the county, the Hall, Fairfield, and everything
that he had met with during his stay in ,
fled again to his dear Italy. Chatham
returned to his regiment, on no very affectionate
terms with his father, and determined to circumvent
him if he could.

Nelson made his appearance at Fairfield one
evening, to take leave before his departure for the
North. He had put on his coat of mail, and was
rigidly careful of his feelings during the few hours
he spent with the oldest and dearest friends he
had in the world,  friends whom he really and
sincerely loved. He saw at a glance that a change
had taken place in Anna, and that, although
friendly as ever, she had ceased even to try to
attract him; a weakness of which she had decidedly
been guilty before. Jessie was sweet and gentle
as ever, but somewhat less cheerful; he did not
like to inquire why, but he thought because Anna
was so soon to leave them. Captain Burford insisted
on a rubber, and as Pynsent was engaged
to play chess with Miss Colville, and Anna hated
cards, he and Jessie were obliged to make it up,
and were thrown together as partners, owing to

Captain Burford's declaring  we will not stop to
inquire why  that he would not play with Jessie
because she always would forget his lead. If Nelson
and Jessie's eyes met, and they both coloured,
it was from different causes. Nelson was thinking
of Anna ; Jessie of him ; and neither of them of
the game.

Pynsent and Louisa were seated at a small round
table in the opposite corner, and occasionally sending
forth a volley of offensive small shot in the
way of jests and repartee, which Pynsent liked
better than the chess, although he was a good
player, and Louisa was improving.

Check to your king ! oh, no such thing V said
Pynsent.

Poetical !" said Louisa.

By the bye," maliciously began Pynsent, " I
hear you write poetry ?"

Louisa darted a glance at Anna, who sat, unconscious
of what was passing, working.

"Oh yes," said she coldly, "I am thinking of
publishing ; shall I dedicate my book to you ?"

Pynsent did not expect this kind of rejoinder.
I should like to see it first," he said.

Just put your king out of check before I go
and fetch it," said Louisa.

That is taking an unfair advantage of the interest

I was showing in your literary fames said
Pynsent. ' I declare I am in a messes

Louisa rubbed her hands, whilst Pynsent sat for
nearly ten minutes considering a move.

Why, Miss Colville, what have you done to
Pynsent T said Captain Burford, looking over his
shoulder, " he seems in a brown study. I hope you
have checkmated him : I am sure that is just how he
would look if he were about to be mated for life."

'ris it ?" said Louisa, looking at Pynsent and
laughing.

Go on," said Pynsent, " you had something-more
upon your tongue."

Only that it would not be a very cheerful prospect,"
interposed Nelson ; " I suppose mating for
life never is."

"Was that what you were going to say. Miss
Colville ?" said Pynsent. ' Young ladies are not
often so cynical."

Louisa blushed.

"Will you go on with your game, and let us
alone ?" continued Pynsent ; " you have quite put
my intended move out of my head."

He thought again, and finally moved.

Checkmate !" cried Louisa ; " you did not see
that. Now do not say that you gave me the
game ; it was very fairly won."

VOL. II. c

A perfect oversight' cried Pynsent, much annoyed,
" I am sure I can get out of check /' and
he moved his king backwards and forwards, into
every possible square, but was finally obliged to
allow himself to be mated.

Will you have your revenge'' said Louisa maliciously:
" I know you do not like to be fairly beaten
by a lady's

'' I am afraid you must defer it till tomorrow'
interrupted Jessie, so you may go to bed conqueror
for once, Louisa. I declare Pynsent looks
quite crest-fallen.'

*Why, you must own it is annoying to have
such a checkmate as that. Just look ! I ought to
have moved so, and then the mate I was preparing
must have happened in five or six moves."

"There are some people who never will allow
themselves to be beaten," said the Captain : " it
is rather a good determination in the long-run.
 Never say die / there is a great comfort in feeling
that you have the best of it, whatever the
world may think."

You are very silent tonight, Miss Anna," said
Nelson, moving towards that young lady, in spite
of his resolutions to the contrary.

Am I ?" said Anna, starting from her reverie.

I am going away tomorrow, and shall not see

you again before you leave for Wales  said Nelson.


I shall have holidays in the summer ; you will
be back by that time. I shall see you before you
go to Indians replied Anna.

' I deserve this cool answer," thought Nelson
as he sat down on the settle by the side of Charles
and Tiny, who had been engaged in alternately
reading and drawing whilst the games were going
on.

Will you go to India with me, little !Missy ?"
he said, stroking Tinys soft hair ; " I will get you
such a nice little husband."

I would rather not, thank you," said Tiny.
But you are not going to India, for a long time."

It is impossible to say how soon."

What new crank now ?" screamed the Captain ;
by Jove, Sir, you are quite incomprehensible."

"He does not mean it, Captain Burford," said
Charles, ''he is only alarming us a little."

Nelson looked at Anna, who appeared to take
no kind of interest in the matter.

' What's come to the young people?" said the
Captain to Aunt Betsey. "Do you know what
makes Anna so silent. Miss Burton? Is she in
love?"

I cannot say," said Aunt Betsey primly.

c 2

The Captain stared. " Well ! its an odd worlds
but ' Will be all the same a hundred years hence
I dare say :" and he solaced himself with his pipe.

When the time of leave-taking came Nelson
shook hands all round,, until he came to Anna.

Good bye, Anna ; perhaps we may not meet
again for years."

Do not talk such nonsense' said Anna gaily ;
' of course you will be here in the summers'

' Good bye till the summer, then' said Nelson.
"By the bye, did Michelson chance to say at
Mansford Park whether he should be down here
next summer?"

He fixed his keen eyes upon Anna's, as if he
would read her soul. He read quite enough. The
blush  the confusion  the stammered "I do not
remember  I  I think not"  told their own tales.
He shook her hand coldly, and turned away, saying
to himself, "What a fool I am !"

Jessie was not in the room, and he was in the
court before he remembered that he had not wished
her good-bye.

"You have quite forgotten me," said a voice,
half sad, half playful. Jessie was lighting Captain
Burford out, who had stayed behind to bid her
good-night.

He will forget his head next," growled the

Captain ; " Ms brains are already here, there, and
everywhere."

I was just coming back' stammered Nelson.

Never mind' said Jessie gently, " I hope you
will have a very pleasant visit. Good bye''

Good bye  God bless you, Jessie ! " said Nelson,
giving her hand the old friendly shake and
pressure that always made her happy ; " I wish we
were all more like you."

What does he mean ?" sighed Jessie, watching
them through the gate. " How changed he is ! I
hope he does not  oh ! God grant that he may
not  for his own sake  for mine  anything but
that"

Even to herself she could not finish the sentence,
and say, " I hope he does not love Anna."

You will take cold," said a sweet voice by her
side, and a little hand lay in hers.

It was Tiny. A quick perception, and the keenest
feelings, had told the child that something
preyed on Jessie's mind. She had watched her
from the bed they shared together, when Jessie
had thought her asleep, and had seen her brush
tears from her eyes, as she sat dreamily reading, as
was her custom before she slept, some book of devotion.
Tiny associated this with Nelson  she did
not know why ; but she supposed it was on account

of the Captain's hints respecting their juvenile attachment.
She did not much like Nelson. She
thought he was not as kind as he ought to be to
Jessie ; and that night, when she saw him leave
the house without even bidding her farewell, she
was very angry with him, and thought, by creeping
out after her kind friend, to console her for the
neglect. Strange that this quiet child should bethe
only one of the party. Captain Burford excepted,
who had an insight into the real state of
Jessie's mind. Anna was too much absorbed in
herself to think much of another; Aunt Betsey
never had any discernment at all; Pynsent disdained
such things as beneath his notice, and felt
sure that Jessie had too strong a mind to be made
unhappy by any attachment whatever ; Louisa Colville
could not understand the ins and outs of the
case; and Charles was too much absorbed in his
painting, future prospects, and endeavours to get
rid of his nervous debility, to study the affections.
Here it may be well to say that Charles was
getting gradually better. With the aid of Tiny's
ever-ready shoulder and a crutch, he managed to
get from place to place, and even to walk up and
down the sunny path in the garden at midday.
Still there was a slight lameness, which Pynsent
feared he would never lose. When Charles heard

of Mr. Michelson's departure after the election,
and of Annans refusal,, his hopes of patronage from
him were over. But Uncle James declared he
should not be disappointed, but should go to London,
and thence to Italy, at his expense.

Dang my buttons, man, you got the illness by
that confounded old bull of mine," he would say,
and it is only just that I should bear the consequences."


Oh, Uncle ! " said Anna, " you know that I can
give at least fifty pounds a year towards Charleys
improvement. Thirty will be quite enough for my
clothes and travelling expenses."

Why it Alas only the other day that you dedicated
twenty towards paying old Skinner the mortgage,"
suggested Pynsent.

Oh ! so I did," said Anna ; " then I can only
give forty to Charley, and must make twenty do
for myself."

And the five pounds a year for Lizzy Dorian?"
said Jessie.

"And the numerous donations you promised to
send all the work people ? " insinuated Charles.

"And my new desk?" said Uncle James.

And that expensive book on Consumption that
I am to have when you receive your first quarterns
wages ?" said Pynsent.

My dear Pynsent how vulgar ! " said Aunt
Betsey; "pray do not make her position worse
than it is."

"I beg your pardon, Aunt Betsey, it is far
from vulgar: all the low people have salaries
and I assure you wages' is by far the most uncommon
term. You must allow me to say, 'When
Anna goes to her place, and receives  ' "

Pynsent ! I shall leave the room," said Aunt
Betsey, rising.

There again. Aunty, do not all the servants goto
'situations? whereas all the grand people. Ministers,
and nobody knows who besides, are in
'places"

There is something in that," said Aunt Betsey,
reseating herself.

"But the money, Anna," said Uncle James.
You have begun to follow the family failing of
eating the calf in the cow's  ' "

Oh ! " shrieked Aunt Betsey, stopping her
ears.

You should say as the French do. Uncle," said
Anna,  " eating your corn in grass."

Not half so expressive," growled Uncle James.
No offence. Miss Betsey !"

Miss Betsey " bowed forgiveness.

Oh ! I am going to keep an account-book,"

said Anna, " and then I shall know how my money
goes''

Uncle James slipped a five-pound note into her
hand, and told her to be a good girl and "mind
her books' a piece of advice he had given her so
regularly every half-year, that he thought it only
proper to repeat it on the present occasion.

Leaving home was now no new thing to Anna,
and, by a strange inconsistency, she longed to go.
On the eve of her departure she was all excitement.
One thing preyed upon her mind, which was. Aunt
Betsey's continued stiffness. She must try to overcome
her ill-feelings : with this end in view she
tapped submissively at her bedroom door the last
thing at night.

Come in," said her aunt.

It is T, Aunty," she said, opening the door.

Oh ! " said Aunt Betsey with dignified emphasis.


I am very sorry  " began Anna, much like a
naughty child.

Pray do not give yourself any trouble on my
account," spoke out Aunt Betsey grandly.

I am going away tomorrow. Aunty -, to a new
country, almost  surely you will not part in
anger?"

Annans tears began to flow.

c3

I am not angry' said Aunt Betsey, turning
away.

But you are not my own kind, indulgent Aunt
Betsey' said Anna, drawing near ; " I want you
ta be what you were before that horrid man came
between us : I hate him."

' Jessie would say that is unchristian' said
Aunt Betsey rather tremulously.

 So it is ; but do not you hate him a very little
bit yourself? At all events you used to love me,
and pet and spoil me ; and why should he hinder
you now? Come, Aunty, make up, as you did
years ago, when I offended you."

Aunt Betsey's eyes were growing moist, and
Anna saw it : she threw her arms round her.

"You were much too good for him always.
Aunty, and are so still."

No, no," sobbed Aunt Betsey, taking Anna
to her heart ; " I was foolish  foolish. Take warning
by me," and leaning her head against Anna,
she gave way to violent grief Nothing but a
vision of Pynsent could have checked the hysterics.


Never before had Aunt Betsey made anything
like a confession ; but now, as if suddenly startled
into it, she poured forth the history of her first
and only real love. It was enounced in a way

peculiar to her, and amidst sobs and tears. She
spoke of her beauty as of a thing of which she was
perfectly conscious ; of her prospects when young ;
of her trusting, happy girlhood; of the admiration
she had excited ; of the compliments she received ;
of the lovers she had had ; and finally of her one
great disappointment, that had embittered her
whole life, and made her, between perpetual hopes
and fears, useless to others and herself. As she
got excited by her subject, Anna discovered that
what she now was. Aunt Betsey must have been,
with a mind less cultivated and less advantages in
education. She had had no pious mother or careful
sister, but had been the spoiled pride and pet
of a weak, fond father. Her vanity and pride of
family had been fostered rather than repressed,
and she had sinned without knowing that she
sinned. Harsh disappointment had been her only
teacher, and had not taught her well, because her
mind had been unprepared for the reception of his
doctrine. Perhaps this opening of her whole heart
to her favourite niece was the first genuine effort
that heart had made towards self-examination and
improvement : let us hope that it may be followed
by others.

Anna's tears flowed freely with those of her
aunt, and she made many good resolutions during

the narrative to avoid the errors into which poor
Aunt Betsey had fallen. She felt more compassion
and sympathy for her foibles and sorrows than
she had ever done before : she experienced a certain
consciousness of the sad truths that in most cases
it is want of tenderness and sympathy and gentle
probing of the wounded heart that makes so many
wounds incurable. Oh, could we but see sometimes
how they bleed, when no eye but God's is
looking on ; could we but learn from our blessed
Saviour how to handle them, and study how best
to heal; there would be fewer secret sorrows in
this life ; less of unknown anguish borne with a
martyr's resolution, whilst the world is scorning
the sufferer ; fewer broken hearts ; less irreclaimable
wickedness ; less agony ; less crime. In days
of chivalry women studied the art of medicine,
and the healing properties of herbs, with a view to
the amelioration of bodily suffering ; let her now
study all the Christian graces, and the way to use
them, with a view to healing the broken heart.
Instead of the mocking laugh or scornful jest, let
her try the winning smile of love and charity;
instead of pride and haughtiness, let her use the
attractive loadstone of humility ; let her seek daily
and patiently the deeply-hidden cause of the evils
that are festering around her, and then apply the

arts that careful study has taught her. Few are
there so wretched or so hardened in sin as to be
dead to the true spirit of love and sympathy.

The following morning Anna departed, amidst
many tears. Pynsent accompanied her on her
first day's journey, remained with her the night
at the inn where she was to sleep, saw her into the
the Cardigan mail the next morning at about three
o'clock, and, having given her much good brotherly
advice, and begged her to apply to him in all
her difficulties, returned to Fairfield the following
night.

Nothing remarkable occurred at Fairfield during
the next six weeks. We will speak of Annans adventures
in the next Chapter, therefore excuse ourselves
from descanting on her letters in this, much
as they were read and commented on at home.
Uncle James and Captain Bm-ford came, as usual,
for rubbers, and in their capacities of advisers and
guardians. Jessie recovered her cheerfulness; Present
went on working, and grumbling with his
patients, and teaching Louisa Colville chess of an
evening, and Charles and Tiny continued to draw
all possible likenesses, and to love one another with
singular depth and warmth.

But all this quiet home happiness came to an
end. The friends with whom Miss Colville was to

return to India were to sail shortly, and she Alas
summoned to London to prepare for her voyage.
Charles determined to be strong enough to accompany
her, and Tiny was to travel under their joint
care. The notice was short, and poor Louisa,
whose feelings were, perhaps, all the deeper because
her natural reserve and shyness prevented their
appearing, was in great distress. Even the phlegmatic
Pynsent began to think how much he should
miss his chess opponent, and to wish there was no
such country as India in the world to swallow up
pretty young ladies, and marry them to all kinds
of captains, colonels, or gouty generals.

The various packing were completed, and our
friends were sitting round the hall fire, talking by
fits and starts, and thinking more. Upon two, at
least, of the little party, a great change was about
to come. Louisa was to quit one country for
another, to lose dear friends and find beloved and
loving parents. Very mingled were her feelings.
The first genuinely happy months that she had
spent since she left India, a child, had been passed
at Fairfield. She had begun to love every member
of the family, particularly Jessie, to whom she, as
well as everybody who knew her well, felt drawn
by a power that no one else seemed to possess.
She knew that if she were in joy or sorrow, she

should fly equally to Jessie for sympathy. Pyn-
sent top the half uncivil but true Pynsent 
there was much in him that attracted her. She was
grieved that she should never see him again ; that
even when she returned to England he might be
married and removed from Fairfield. She was
particularly vexed that he should seem to know so
little of her true character, and always look upon
her as a smart, fashionable young lady, with no
feelings beyond an Indian ball-room, and a full intention
of marrying an Indian officer. She had a
good deal of discrimination of character, and she
knew this was the case. Pynsent systematically
despised young ladies. He thought no woman
worth a penny until she had lost her beauty, and
was verging on old-maids. They were all alike
as long as they were young ladies, and to be admired
in the same way as little pigs or puppy-dogs
were to be admired, for their looks. He made an
occasional exception in favour of a plain girl, because
he fancied that if she had no beauty, she had
no conceit. This was a decided mistake of Master
Pynsent s ; for plain people may fancy themselves
pretty, and be vain of what they do not possess.
Be this as it may, Louisa almost wished herself
ugly, that she might prove to Pynsent that there
were at least some grains of sterling ore in her

character. How she wished her parents were
coming to live in England ! then she could have
Jessie to stay with her, and could, in turn, often
visit Fairfield. Now she was going away for ever.

Upon Charley, too, this journey to London was
producing strange effects. He was about to make
the first step toward the high point at which he
aimed,  to see paintings, to hear of paintings, to
study paintings, to look upon the originals of those
masterpieces of the art that he had as yet only
seen engraved ; to labour with an end in view,  a
noble end,  the production of works equal to those
he hoped to see. The weak, shrinking, sensitive
boy became a man as by sudden transition, and
Tiny looked upon him as already a Correggio.

Poor Tiny ! Many and sad were the tears she
shed at the prospect of leaving Fairfield. Not
even the certainty that Charles would be in London
could make up to the child for parting with Jessie,
and quitting the dear, cheerful, happy country
place that had been to her beautiful as one of her
child-dreams. Every pigeon, every fowl, the robins
that came upon the window-sill, nay into the
house, for crumbs, the big Newfoundland dog, the
rooks that cawed in the elm-trees, the cattle, the
rough farm servants,  everything and person belonging
to Fairfield had twined round her young

heart like ivy round a tender sapling. And now to
be obliged to go back to dull, dusty, lonely Peck-ham,
without any one who could enter into her deep
thoughts, or understand why she was so quiet and
unlike a child. True, she should be very glad to
see her mother again, and her kind guardian, for
she loved them both, and she knew she was ungrateful
thus to regret Fairfield; but had she
not known happiness and real sympathy for the
first time during the past months, and could she
help deploring that she should know them no
more?

"Will you come and keep house for me, little
deary ? said bluff, kind-hearted Uncle James,
putting down his pipe, and taking her on his knee.
He had been watching the quiet tears steal down
her cheeks and her furtive efforts to conceal them,
and could stand it no longer. " I want a housekeeper
: Jessie can come, and Anna won : what
do you say?"

"I wish I was big enough,' whispered* Tiny,
resting her head on her friends shoulder, and letting
the tears hide themselves in his coat; "but
mother wants me at home."

It is very hard that I can never get a housekeeper,"
said Uncle James, glancing at Aunt
Betsey, majestically knitting, yet colouring slightly,
as if conscious by intuition.

'Tiny is going to get big, and marry me/
said Captain Burford , actually rising from his seat
to cross over and stroke the back of her head, as
she hid her face on Uncle James's shoulder : " we
will have such a wedding ! And who knows but
we may get up another at the same time'' he
added, glancing at Jessie. "I wish Nelson was
here,  hang the lad ! '

Sympathetic tears were beginning to appear in
Louisa's eyes, and Jessie's were already full ; Tiny
began to sob.

Come, come ! cheer up ! 'Twill be all the same
a hundred years hence; won't it, Miss Burton?"
said Captain Burford.

Even Aunt Betsey was wiping her eyes, whilst
Pynsent, the heartless wretch, was only thinking
of the fire. How busily and impatiently he pulls
about that huge piece of wood, and treads upon
the big tabby cat, and pshaw, and wishes the cat
would keep her place, quite heedless of the pain
poor Puss is feeling in her tail and the corner of
one paw, thanks to his great thick boot.

'' Pynsent, how clumsy you are !" cries Aunt
Betsey, forgetting Tiny in her sympathy with her
favourite cat.

Tiny, you had better come to bed, dear," said
Jessie; "you must be up early, and will want a
long night's rest.

Good Uncle James put his arm round the child
and kissed her , whisperings with a woman's tenderness,
that she must buy something up in London
to keep for his sake, and slipping a sovereign
into her hand. Tiny tried in vain to say thank
you; and hurrying from one to the other with
kisses and good-nights, she went, sobbing her little
heart out, upstairs with Jessie. For the first time
the independent little child-woman passively allowed
herself to be undressed. Jessie let her grief
have way. When the night-gown was on, and
Jessie took the brush to arrange her long, soft
hair, she seemed to recollect herself, and to make
an effort to cease crying. She looked up into her
kind friend's face, and the expression of her eyes
was so mournful, that Jessie was pained by it.

' Tell me why you are so very unhappy, Tiny,'
she said, as the child threw her arms about her.

I do not know ; I cannot tell ; because I am
wicked : but I am so very, very sorry to go away."

Jessie sat down, and drew her towards her.  If
you have any sorrow, and can confide in me'' she
said gently, ' I will be a true friend, darling."

It is not a sorrow, and it is a sorrow," sobbed
the child. ' My mother sometimes looks sadly on
me, and sometimes talks as if I did not belong to
lier, and wonders what wil become of me; and

Mrs. Hicks who lives with your uncle is unkind
and says wrong things to me, that hurt me at my
heart, and make me feel as if I should almost die."

 What can she say to you, dearest child? She
cannot mean to hurt you."

I suppose not, but she does. Sometimes she
says I have no right to come there with honest
people ; and my mother has no right to be living
upon other folks money, and that we ought to be
ashamed of ourselves. Indeed I do not know why.
I think, and think, and try to do well ; and mother
is very good and kind, if she is not as clever as
you and Anna. I try very, very hard to learn,
that I may do something for myself, because I
know she means that Mr. Barnard keeps us ; and
mother and I sew all day to earn what we can,
and she is not strong : and we both feel it all very
much, but we never talk to one another about it.
It seems stranger than ever to me, now I see how
different everything is here, and how happy you
all are. I wish I could know how to keep myself:
I think I shall be able soon. I would rather bea
servant; I should like to be Mr. Barnard's or
your little servant ; but I cannot bear what Mrs.
Hicks says, even though I cannot quite understand
what it means."

Tiny had told her little tale, interrupted by

many sobs. Perhaps she had never spoken so
much before at once. Jessie had listened with
great interest and surprise : strange fancies crowded
into her mind. She had often wondered what
had given her uncle such an interest in the child,
and how he had become her guardian, and why he
had forbidden Anna, from the first, to ask about
her. Now she wondered more; but she set to
work to console Tiny, and to think how she could
best help her.

"You must not mind what Mrs. Hicks says,
love, so long as you do your duty. If you pray to
God, He will make your path clear for you in His
good time."

I do, Jessie, I do ; and I feel comforted."

That is right. Tiny. Whenever you have any
sorrows or joys, carry them, either by prayer or
praise, to your Father in Heaven. Whenever you
want an earthly friend, come to me or write tome
: whatever I can do I will, please God. Perhaps
you may be obliged to support yourself
young,  it is impossible to say,  and you must be
usefully brought up. You will do your best, I am
sure, for Uncle Timothy's sake, as well as your
mother's and your own''

''Oh yes!" sobbed Tiny, "I only want to
know how ; I should like to begin tomorrow. I

can work, and read, and write now, and cipher a
little. I will try hard,  indeed, indeed I will''

'' Now, dear, you must get into bed ; you are
shivering with cold. How thoughtless of me !
Wrap this great shawl all round you. There !
Will you say your prayers nth me tonight ? We
will ask God to tell us what to do for your good''

Tiny knelt down at Jessie's knees, and repeated
her child's prayer, in which Jessie joined, adding
her own supplications for the little innocent who
had so trustingly confided in her love. She saw
her into bed, and watched by her till she fell
asleep, thinking how little her own disappointments
seemed, by the side of the real trials that
are for ever renewing in the great battle of life.

CHAPTER XVIII,

The mistress of the mansion came,
Mature of age, a graceful dame ;
Whose easy step and stately port
Had well become a princely court.
Meet welcome to her guests she made,
And every courteous rite she paid."  Scott.

Everybody knows that the life of a governess is
rarely a happy life. We are not going to dive
into the causes of this fact, but a fact it is. It
matters not whether the fault is on the side of the
governess, or on that of the family in which she
resides, or on both sides ; but she seldom feels at
home with those in whose service she is passing an
existence. I believe custom has a great deal todo
with this : it is the fashion for governesses to
be isolated human beings. What one lady does
another must do. It is her duty, as well as her
profession, to teach and amuse children, and of
course she must be doing her duty morning, noon,
and night. Fashionable mothers may do their
duty at secondhand ; and having obtained a lady

to fill their places with their children may follow
their own devices ; reserving the blessed privilege
of politely lecturing their governess if their children
are not in all respects, as perfect as they
feel assured they ought to be. What matter if
the said governess does feel aggrieved and angry ?
if she does shed bitter tears when she retires at
night, after a hard dayes fagging, to her bedroom?
if she does wish herself dead,  or in Australia with
the poor gentlewomen,  or starving at home with
the mother or invalid sister, or, maybe, worthless
husband, whom she helps to support ? She ought
to be ashamed of herself for so doing ; she ought
to feel grateful for her salary, food, and lodgment ;
she ought to study all kinds of unknown tongues,
and practise on all kinds of musical instruments 
yea verily, as many as Nebuchadnezzar caused his
musicians to play : and all with a view to teaching
them again to those beloved pupils, whose parents
are so considerate for her happiness and comfort !
There may be some Becket Sharps in the world
who are seeking nothing but their own pleasure
and good, to the neglect of the children committed
to them; and there are also some mistresses of
families who strive, heart and hand, to make those
around them happy, and who especially consider
the governess thrown upon their care and kindness

by untoward circumstances in their own homes :
but these, on both sides, are rare. Becket Sharp
has been keenly and ably described by one who
truly has "the pen of a ready writers With a
pen less brilliant and pointed, but, I would fain
hope, as true, let me endeavour to paint the exception
on the other side  the employer who strives
to do her duty.

The Lady Georgiana Meredith received Anna
Burton with a warm and friendly shake of the
hand. She called her two pretty, shy, smiling
children to her, and taking a hand of each, put
the little trembling fingers into each of Annans
Viands, and said she hoped they would be very good
children, and strive to make Miss Burton very
happy. Anna pressed the little hands, and longed
to kiss the sweet innocent faces, but did not quite
know whether it would be right. The eldest, little
Violet, soon settled her doubts by holding up a
blushing, inviting cheek, to which the second,
Rose, added another. Anna kissed them with all
her heart, and Lady Georgiana looked smiling on.
Then her ladyship led Anna across the room to a
large easy chair by the fire, where an elderly lady
was sitting, also smiling. She rose when Anna
approached, curtseyed, and held out her hand.

We are all very glad to see you. Miss Burton 

VOL. II. D

she said , reseating herself ; " are we not,, Violets


Oh yes, Grandmamma/ said the little girl,
glancing very lovingly into Annans beautiful face 
the very face to attract a child.

I am very much obliged, very," said Anna,
with tears in her eyes : she had little expected
such a reception.

You must be very cold and tired," said Lady
Georgiana; 'swill you come to your room?"

Anna followed her upstairs, and into a nice,
roomy bedroom, in which a large fire was blazing
and a tea-kettle singing briskly.

"I hope you will find everything comfortable
here," said Lady Georgiana; 'should you want
anything, you have only to ring, and your maid
will come at once. The same servant will wait on
you and the children, and she is wholly under your
control. Would you just like to look at your
schoolroom and the children's room whilst we are
here, that you may be put au courant at once ?"

They went out into the nice, broad, airy corridor,
and into the room adjoining Anna's bedroom.
It was a large, cheerful sitting-room, with no
schoolroom air, save the pleasant atmosphere of
books, maps, and pictures. There was a nosegay
of hothouse flowers on the table, and a bright fire
in the grate.

The children gathered these and arranged
them for you this mornings said Lady Georgiana ;
they have been very anxious about you."

Into the corridor again, and thence to another
large bedroom.

This is the children's bedroom ; and this next
room their playroom, and the maid's sitting-room.
Whenever you want half an hour's leisure you can
send them here. I have perfect confidence in
Ruth, their attendant; and am, besides, a great
deal with them myself. And now we will return
to your own apartment. I have ordered high tea
for you, instead of dinner, because I think it is so
much pleasant after a journey, and the children
are so anxious to have their tea with us."

Anna could do nothing but look shy, pleased,
tearful, and grateful. Words would not come to
express her thanks. She had expected to find
matters so cold and cheerless amongst the grand
people to whom she was going ; and on the contrary,
all was so warm and cheerful.

"And now," said Lady Georgiana, lingering
near the fireplace and leaning her elbow on the
mantelpiece, " I wish you. Miss Burton, to make
yourself at home here. We live very quietly, and
see little company, but we all live together. Our
hours are early, and my mother's advanced age and

d2



 !tllWO

health require regularity so we are regular people.
When lessons are over, we shall be always glad to
have you with us. The children have been accustomed
to be so jnuch in our society, that they are
quite little old women, and would feel greatly
being shut out from it. They were only reconciled
to regular school by the promise that they might
spend their play hours with Grandmamma when
they choses

The tears that had been gathering in Annans
bright eyes, now fairly rolled down her cheeks :
tears of genuine gratitude from the orphan. Such
tears you may command at will, all ye mothers of
families, who receive young ladies into your homes
and hearts, instead of into your schoolrooms and
service.

I will do my best for your children's  was all
that Anna could say ; and the simple words were
all that Lady Georgiana asked.

Anna, like most of her sex, had a heart sensible
to kindness. Woe to that heart which is not !
She could be led to anything by such words as she
had heard, such gentle manners as she had seen.
Yes, " gentlewoman indeed was Lady Georgiana
Meredith. Would that all the high-born women
of the world deserved the title so well, and bore
it so meekly !

Whilst Anna is left alone to wipe her eyes, arrange
her dress, and ponder over the kind reception
she has had from the relatives of Chatham
Michelson, let us return again to the handsome
drawing-room she has left, and give a hasty sketch
of its two noble-minded inmates.

The Dowager Countess of Loughlow, who sits
in the large, velvet, high-backed chair, is the widow
of an Irish earl. Her husband died some twenty
or thirty years ago, leaving her with two daughters,
one arrived at marriageable age, the other not more
than ten years old. He had been an extravagant
man, and therefore beyond her own property of a
thousand a year, settled on herself and her children,
she had nothing. The title and estates passed
to a cousin of the Ears. She went abroad with
her daughters, and resided there some years. Her
eldest daughter married Mr. Michelson shortly
after. The match appeared a good one, as Lady
Catherine had nothing during her mother's life,
and Mr. Michelson was a man of large fortune,
and supposed to be of considerable talent. It was
not a happy match, and caused the good Countess
much grief. About ten years afterwards, and not
very long before Lady Catherine's death, her other
daughter. Lady Georgiana, married Sir Thomas
Meredith, a Welsh baronet, also a man of wealth,

and what was far better of genuine worth. The
Countess came into Wales, and resided with her
daughter and son-in-law, who were as united and
happy a couple as ever graced either palace or
cottage. Soon after the birth of little Rose, Sir
Thomas Meredith died, leaving his wife sole mistress
of aU he possessed in the world. Since that
melancholy period  the one great, black, never-vanishing
cloud in the life of Lady Georgiana 
the mother and daughter devoted themselves to
each other, and to the little Violet and Rose. The
aged Countess had gone through unnumbered trials
during her lifetime. She lost a son and daughter,
born between the two surviving children : she had
a wild, extravagant, faithless husband ; she saw one
daughter married to a selfish, heartless man, and
neglected until she died of a broken heart; and
finally she lost a son-in-law, dear to her as if he
had been her own son. But she never repined;
she sorrowed, but not as one without hope.

Very beautiful is that aged gentlewoman. We
will not pause to convince the sceptic in such matters,
that age may be beautiful, but simply describe
her. A face, colourless as the marble mantelpiece
near which she sits, somewhat wrinkled, doubtless,
but the wrinkles have not disfigured it; a thin,
marked nose ; a calm, high brow ; thin, pale lips.

at the corners of which a soft smile always dwells,
like a moonbeam on a white cloud ; eyes yet undimmed
by fifty years of tears  soft, sweet, melancholy,
yet beaming brown eyes, telling of holy
thoughts, gentle sympathies, untold loves and untold
griefs ; two bands of white hair, unshaded by
a single streak of brown, binding the pale, placid
forehead, like snow around a winter rose. A cap
of rich white lace, simple in form, but graceful,
surrounds that face, and covers a portion of that
silver crown of honour. A black satin gown, and
large scarf edged with swans down, clothes the venerable
figure. Dignified, but not haughty, is the
somewhat stately carriage ; erect, but not formal,
the still unbent form. Beautiful may have been
the Countess in the first warm blush of her early
summer, but never more beautiful than she is now,
in the sun-illumined snows of her closing winter.
Yes, such an old-age is lovely, made lovely by the
quiet. Christian spirit that dwells within the fine,
calm frame.

Look at a pure white rosebud, just bursting from
its green calyx, and you see the little Violet Meredith,
now seated at her grandmother's feet. Watch
the rose when it is full blown, pale, large, and
sweet, and you see the Lady Georgiana. Mark,
again, the flower when it is beginning to recluse.

and one or two of its snowy petals have fallen,
one or two have begun to wither  and you see the
Countess. A shade more sorrowful than of old
is the Lady Georgiana's pale, sweet face : a degreeless
erect her graceful figure: for when she. lost
the husband, who was more to her than life itself,
she lost the brightness of her smile, and the elasticity
of her mien. But she gained that look of
benign resignation,  of patient, heavenly meekness.


When Anna, radiant and bright as morning,
entered the room, it was like a warm sunbeam
striking in amongst the stars at night. As she
turned the handle of the door, holding it, before
she did so, nervously in her hand for some seconds,
she heard a child's voice saying 

Grandmamma, she is so pretty ! Did you see
her black eyes and rosy cheeks. Mamma? Oh,
I love her very much already."

Poor Anna's heart beat with more real pleasure
at the child's praise, than it had ever done at a
compliment before.

'' Violet, put Miss Burton's chair here, by the
fire," said Lady Georgiana, glancing at Anna, as
she drew, trembling and shy, towards the tea-table,
which was supplied with all kinds of good things,
and at which Lady Georgiana was presiding.

The Countess looked up from a book she had in
her hand, and smiled as she caught Anna's eye.
Anna thought she saw a look of Chatham, and the
colour came to her cheeks. Tea passed over, and
they were all seated round the fire, before there
was much conversation. Little Rose managed to
place her low stool very near Anna's side, and by
degrees looked up into her face when she spoke,
and manoeuvred to touch her dress, until the small
hand rested on the lap, and finally found its way
into hers.

When the children were gone to bed, the principal
part of the conversation was about them.
Lady Georgiana told Anna of their dispositions,
tastes, and of her own plans for their improvement
and happiness. These were so judicious and evidently
had been so long and anxiously considered,
that Anna had nothing to do but to listen, and to
resolve to follow them to her best ability. With
a frankness natural to her, and called forth by
Lady Georgiana' s confidential tone, Anna said that
she had not been used to teaching ; that she had
the art, for a great and noble art it is, to learn
from the beginning; and that she hoped Lady
Georgiana would assist her in arranging the studies
of her children.

I must here pause to give a hint to mothers,

d3

arising from this request of Anna. When, like
the Lady Georgiana, they will meet their governess
kindly, easily, and frankly, as a lady, and,
to a certain extent, an equal, they will find her
anxious to help them in carrying out their plans,
as well as in making and arranging their own.
Had Anna been met proudly and haughtily, by
one inconsiderate for her happiness and comfort,
she would have set to work proudly and haughtily.
She would have been angry if the Lady Georgiana
had interfered in her department. She would have
resolutely shown that she knew what she was about
as well as an experienced teacher of forty, whether
she knew or not ; she would have looked coldly on
the children, even though they were sweet and
lovable, of one who looked coldly upon her. This
is a temperament not peculiar to Anna, but common
to young girls just entering upon life, who
have not been, as many have been, toiling and
struggling from childhood. Anna was of good
family, admired for her beauty, highly educated,
somewhat spoilt, and differing in nothing from any
other handsome and fashionable young lady, save
in the fact that she was beginning a career not
very well suited to her taste. The Lady Georgiana
took the only means of making it palatable. She
showed that she did not consider the position of a

governess an inferior one ; on the contrary, one to
be respected. She joined heart and hand in the
plans for her children's education : she did not
command , she suggested, and suggested in such a
way, that it was evident to Anna that she was not
expected, as a matter of course, to abide by the
suggestions, if her own plans and wishes were
different.

Anna listened meekly, spoke little, but resolved.
She did more towards becoming a teacher in that
short evening, than she had ever done before ; and
when she retired for the night, instead of thinking
of Chatham, Michelson or even overmuch of
home, she found herself meditating seriously on
Lady Georgiana's words and wishes, and, for the
first time in her life, trying to lay down rules for
instructing others.

The following morning Anna rose with the very
late sun, and dressed quickly, for she understood
that they were to breakfast at half-past eight. She
stood in the window, gazing on the prospect, waiting
for some kind of summons from some one, not
knowing whether she was to breakfast with the
children, or with the heads of the household. Before
her lay a long expanse of smooth lawn, winding
shrubberies, and magnificent trees. Through an
opening in the trees a line of sea was visible, and
a blue mountain. The house must have been three

miles from the sea but there it lay, tranquil and
glorious beneath the morning sun. Anna had
never seen a mountain before she came into Wales,
and now she bowed her heart before its grandeur.
She stood as one entranced, touched to the soul
by the tranquil beauty of Nature.

A soft tapping at the door, frequently repeated
before she even heard it, at last aroused her. She
opened it, and the little pupils appeared, each with
a nosegay of the first snowdrops and laurentius.

' Breakfast is ready," said Violet, after the
morning salutations and shy kisses.

Here are some flowers, if you please," said
Rose, presenting her bouquet.

"Thank you, dear," said Anna, taking the
flowers from the children, and placing some of
the snowdrops in her bosom. " Shall we have
time to put them in water ?"

"May I do it?" asked Violet; and receiving
permission, she took a little vase from the mantelpiece,
and began arranging them.

We are to have a whole holiday today," whispered
Rose ; " and Mamma says that, if you like,
we may show you our ponies and gardens, and
take you for a long walk."

I shall like it very much," said Anna, stooping
to kiss the sweet child, who was doing her
lest to please her.

There 1 that is so pretty said Violet : " snowdrops
are so pretty

Very pretty said Anna,, with a half sigh, fora
vision of the snowdrops and crocuses of Fairfield,
and Jessie watching them, suddenly came before
her mind. " And now perhaps we had better goto
breakfast. 

"There is the bell," said Violet; "we have
prayers first, if you please."

The servants were all in the hall, as, with a
little girl on each side, Anna passed through them
into the dining-room. They stood respectfully as
she passed, and then followed her and the children.

Lady Georgiana was seated with a book before
her. She pointed to chairs near her, which Anna
and the children took. The servants sat down, a
goodly array, at the bottom of the room. Lady
Georgiana then read a few verses of Scripture, and
a short explanation of them, simply worded; she
then read an impressive short prayer, during which
all, of course, knelt : and when every voice had
joined in Our Lord's Prayer, and she had concluded
by the blessing, they again separated.
Anna had felt a greater degree of solemnity during
that quarter of an hour than she had ever felt
before. Her heart was often reached through her
senses; and the subdued light in the fine old

library the row of respectable servants the quiet,
highbred children, and, above all, the Lady Georgians's
deep voice and reverent manner, had
touched both her senses and feelings. She thought
she should always be good in such a home, and
prayed more earnestly than she had done of late
to be made so.

The Lady Georgiana shook hands kindly with
her, and made inquiries as to the night she had
passed, etc. She said that her mother always
breakfasted in her own apartments, but joined
them at the other meals. They went into a cheerful
little breakfast-room, where a good fire and a
hissing urn made the frame glow and the eyes
brighten. Lady Georgiana at the top of a small
table and Anna at the bottom, with a child on
each side, made up a little party well suited to
the room.

The children looked impatient as soon as breakfast
was over.

remiss Burton must have many things to arrange,
my dears," said their mother, sand we
must not forget that we have one duty to perform :
holidays do not exempt us from that pleasant
duty."

"Oh no. Mamma," said Violet cheerfully, whilst
little Rose looked disappointed.

May Miss Burton read with us, Mamma ?"
said Rose brightening up.

Ask hers dears said her mother, smiling.

"Will you read the psalms and chapters with
us?" asked the child, going up softly to Anna.

"I should like it very much' said Anna, "if
your mamma has no objections' And so it was
settled, and so it continued as long as Anna was
with them.

They all went upstairs, and into a pretty morning
room, where they found the Countess in a
warm dressing-gown, seated in an easy chair. She
welcomed Anna, and told her she was very glad to
have her join their little party. The children took
two cases, containing a Bible and Prayerbook (presents
of their grandmother), from a low shelf, and
sat down on two little stools at her feet. The
Lady Georgiana gave Anna a third case, and taking
her own Bible and Prayerbook, seated herself on
an ottoman by the fire. As Anna leant her elbow
on a small table and opened the sacred books, her
black curls concealed the one bright tear that
rolled down her cheek, for again she thought of
Jessie. The Countess began the first verse of the
Psalms for the day, and then they read by turns,
the children joining as gravely and attentively as
the rest. Anna felt that it was " good."

After they had finished this devotional exercise

Anna gave herself up to the children. They took
her to see their various pets and treasures; they
led her through beautiful shrubberies, by romantic
streams, across rustic bridges, along the edge of a
mimic lake, in which was their own mimic island,
through grand but leafless woods, and finally to
the little church in the grounds. Everywhere there
were glimpses of the sea and mountains. The
children said they often rode down to the shore,
and that Miss Burton was to have a pony to ride
with them.

There is Mr. Lewis Gwynne, said Rose, clapping
her hands.

' Oh, come on, if you please, I don't like him''
said Violet.

But Mr. Lewis Gwynne, a pale young clergyman,
with a vast extent of white necktie, stopped to
speak to the children. He raised his hat to Anna,
and, with a very self-possessed and somewhat self-satisfied
air, said, 'Miss Burton, I presume?"

Anna bowed distantly, and walked on. She was
not particularly struck by Mr. Lewis Gwynne,
curate of Llanayron. He stood looking after her
and arranging his tie and advancing whiskers.
What a fine girl !" he said to himself. Mr. Lewis
Gwynne was convinced he should soon make a
conquest.

With a heightened colour and good appetite

Anna returned to dinner at two o'clock. Dinner,
like everything else, was conducted in excellent
style. All was as well cooked, and the servants
waited as attentively, as if it had been at eight ;
only there was no time lost : they dined, and
there was an end of it. A modern luncheon would
have occupied as long a period.

After dinner Anna went to arrange her room
and to write to Jessie. Then Lady Georgiana and
she had an hour's conversation about lessons in
the schoolroom, when many important scholastic
matters were arranged to their mutual satisfaction ;
Anna bringing forward Miss Primmerton's rules
and regulations, which, modified by those of the
mother, promised well. After this, Anna showed
Lady Georgiana some of her drawings, and was
honest enough to say that they were done under
the superintendence of a first-rate master, and
that she could not draw as well undirected. Lady
Georgiana was an artist herself, and said she was
sure that between them they should be able to
teach the children as much as they would need for
many a long year. She admired some of Anna's
drawings very much, and advised her to begin to
sketch from nature. But she was particularly delighted
with a sketch that Charles had made for
Anna, of Jessie, with Tiny on her lap.

"Who is that's' she asked: "what a calm,
sweet expression, and what a lovely child ! ''

Anna was delighted to be able to say that it washer
elder sister, and that her brother had drawn it.
She felt elevated in the scale of being by having
such a sweet-looking sister and clever brother.

Then Lady Georgiana questioned her kindly of
her family, and finally ran off with the picture and
Anna's drawings to her mother.

After tea they had some music. Anna really
played and sang brilliantly,  that was the word;
and her auditors were much pleased. Lady Georgians
produced some duets, which Anna played
with her at sight. Then the little girls played a
duet that their mamma had taught them, and so
the evening slipped away till the children went to
bed. Then the Countess took her knitting, and
Anna fetched her workbox  she who had hated
all kinds of work. But work, or make believe to
work, she did, whilst the Lady Georgiana read
aloud Wordsworth's ' Excursion,' which Anna tried
to admire, but found herself insensibly thinking of
something else. Sandwiches, biscuits, and mine
and water came in, and the book was laid aside.

I think you know Mr. Michelson, Miss Burton?"
said the Countess, with a twitch in the
corners of her mouth. Happily she did not remark

the bright quick flush that overspread Annans
face.

Yes," replied Anna, with considerable hesitation,
" I have met him occasionally."

And my grandson, Captain Michelson, do you
know him?"

Anna stooped to pick up her pocket-handkerchief,
which she let fall on purpose, and in stooping
thought it incumbent upon her to stroke a beautiful
spaniel that was sleeping on the hearthrug.

I met him at Sir Thomas Mansfords," she
stammered, " a short time before I left home."

He does not stay much at the Hall, I believe,
does he?" asked Lady Georgiana.

1 think not; but I have been so much at
school that I scarcely know."

Does his father live much in the country ? "

I believe not : I have never seen him there
more than twice or three times."

Is Captain Michelson reckoned like his father?"
asked the Countess ; " I have not seen him for
some years."

'' No  yes  not very much," said Anna.

"Was Chatham much with the  Mansfords ? "
asked Lady Georgiana. '' We used to be very
intimate with Lady Mansford some years ago, but
our correspondence dwindled, until she was kind
enough to write to me about you."

Mr. Michelson seemed to be on Ten intimate
terms with Sir Thomas Mansford/' said Anna,
evading the question, she scarcely knew why.

Chatham was a very handsome youth," sighed
the Countess, "and very affectionate. Now his
letters are so hurried that I scarcely know what
he is. Is he much liked, Miss Burton, in the
county?"

Poor Anna ! She could with difficulty bring
out that " I believe so."

Is Mr. Michelson still as popular in society ashe
was?" asked the Lady Georgiana with some
hesitation.

He appears to be so," said Anna.

The Countess fidgeted with her knitting, and
moved nervously on her chair, then, as by a great
effort, said, " Do you know what became of Miss
Rutherford?"

Anna told all she knew, which was simply the
report of her sudden departure from the Hall.

Chatham used to be very fond of her," said
Lady Georgiana. " She was very clever and handsome.
There was a curious likeness of her in that
child's face your brother sketched."

How strange ! " said Anna, " my sister once
remarked that likeness."

Did your sister know her ?"

They used to meet now and then in the cottages
of poor people. Miss Rutherford was very-good
to the poor. I believe they became rather
intimate in that way, and sometimes walked together.
My sister liked her very much."

''Is Captain Michelson generous?" asked the
pertinacious Countess.

"Very, I believe, to a fault," said Anna, with
animation, forgetting herself for a moment in her
wish to praise Chatham.

I am thankful that he has not lost that," said
the Countess aside to Lady Georgiana.

' I dare say we shall see him some day. Mamma,"
said Lady Georgiana cheerfully, seeing the Countess
look despondent. "Young men, when they
get into the Army, have so much to occupy their
minds, that one cannot expect them to visit quiet
people till they sober down a little."

Perhaps so," said the Countess sadly, and rang
the bell.

They went into the library, where the servants
came in the same order as in the morning ; and having
had family prayers, they retired for the night.

CHAPTER XIX.

See jour guests approach ;
Address yourself to entertain them sprightly,
And let's be red with mirth."  Winter's Tale.

Annans presence at Plas Ayron was as pleasant
and beneficial to its inmates as their society and
example were to lier. When she became at home 
which in the course of a few weeks she did  her
bright face and gay cheerful temper, animated
manners, and brilliant conversation, were the
means of rousing all, even the pensive Lady
Georgiana, into occasional sallies of mirth that
had been long foreign to the house. We have
said that Anna was irresistible, and this is another
proof of the truth of the assertion. The children
loved her, and decidedly petted her, as did the
Countess. As to the servants, they entirely spoilt
her. They declared the house was more itself
since she had been there than it had been since
their master's death. She had a joke with them
all, and the serious old butler said she was the

prettiest, merriest, and most ladylike governess he
had ever seen in all his service.

Under the joint efforts of Lady Georgiana and
Anna, the children got on famously. They were
not forced  their mother was too judicious for
that ; she did not like hothouse plants as well as
garden ones  but they were regularly taught, and
with good temper. This was due to their mother.
Her unvaried kindness to Anna, her ready approval
of all her little efforts, her desire to make
her happy, awoke such gratitude in the girls nature,
always warm and impressible, that she forced
her quick temper into subjection, and urged her
patience into action, that she might repay the debt
she felt she was incurring. She was not by nature
fond of being with children ; she did not like
teaching; but no one who saw her would have
supposed so. It will be readily understood that
such a discipline and the intercourse with minds
superior in mental culture to her own, greatly be '
refined Anna. Day after day passed with little
variety, but each day helped to inform her heart,
and to teach her that there was something even
more beautiful than beauty  the quiet refinement
of the cultivated Christian mind. She forgot 
almost forgot  her love of admiration. She did
not forget Chatham Michelson, and his admiration.

She sometimes heard his name mentioned,
and never without a blush. Once she heard the
Countess express great pleasure at having received
a letter of some length and much good-feeling
from him, and this made her heart beat. She was
constant to him  but then she had few temptations
to inconstancy.

Mr. Lewis Gwynne was the only one with whom
she could, if she would , carry on a little flirtation,
pour passer le temps  and she did not consider him
worth the trouble. She tormented him a good
deal, and made him declare that she gave herself
more airs than the Lady Georgiana,  she ! only a
governess ! Yet he was as near being in love ashe
could be with a girl who had not a sou. He
did not know that she was to have a thousand
pounds screwed out of poor Fairfield if she married,
or he might have permitted himself to fall in
love. He preached high-flown sermons, which she,
to the Countesses displeasure, cut to pieces when
she came from church, as she did his white neckcloth
and long hair. But he rather deserved cutting
to pieces, it must be confessed, for he was the
least bit in the world of a prig.

There were occasionally company days at Plas
Ayron : grand dinner parties, at which the Lady
Georgiana feted the neighbouring gentry, and

kept up a show of hospitality. These were somewhat
formal and stupid, and Anna, who was always
present, rather dreaded them. There were
few unmarried men in the neighbourhood, and the
guests were generally papas, mammas, and daughters.
Mr. Lewis Gwynne always made one of
them, and sometimes a stray son, at home on
leave from his regiment, or a young clergyman,
a friend of Mr. Lewis Gwynne' s, would be added,
and received with delight by the young ladies,
who, like Anna, mostly looked with horror on
these stiff dinners. It was not that the Countess
and her daughter were particularly formidable;
but they were so very quiet, and lived such a retired
life, that people were afraid of being merry
in their presence, and had an impression that the
Lady Georgiana had never laughed since her
husband's death, which effectually checked their
laughter. Anna, who laughed at a feather, as the
saying is, used to astonish the young ladies, and
helped very much to make them feel more at their
ease. She played and sang, and played duets vith
Lady Georgiana, who induced the young ladies to
perform ; and so the evenings passed, till half-past
ten or eleven brought the carriages, and put an
end to what Anna always looked upon as the
dullest hours of her life. In these parties various

VOL. II. E

were the opinions expressed of Anna by the different
guests. All thought her handsome : there
could be no dissenting voice on that point. Many
said she had very fascinating manners ; some that
she was too forward ; some, that she was too well
aware of her good looks ; others, that she dressed
too fashionably for her position; this one, that
she had flirting eyes; that one, that she talked
too much to the young men; most, that the
Countess and the Lady Georgiana spoiled her,
and, by making her so much at home, would render
other governesses dissatisfied, and thus be a
bad precedent. The " young mens'  few and far
between they were, as we said before,  shocked
their friends and relations by paying her more
attention than they ought, according to their notions.
True, nobody could say she courted their
attentions; on the contrary, she was rather patronizing
and high and mighty when they spoke
to her, but she had a way of attracting them that
papas and mammas did not like.

She decided upon having no holidays at Midsummer,
because the distance from her home was
so great, and she had been so short a time away
ficom it. She might have had them if she liked ;
and truly she longed to see Fairfield and its dear
inmates again: but a vague hope that Chatham

Michelson might make a tour of Wales dining his
next leave of absence, and that the leave might be
in the summer, and that he might come to see
his grandmother, which he had rather hinted he
wished to do, decided her wavering mind, and she
put off visiting her friends for another year. Holidays
she had, during which she and the children
made hay, wandered about the sea-shore on pony-back
and on foot, went for long drives and morning
calls with the Lady Georgiana, pulled the
Countess about the walks in her wheel-chair, and
almost lived out of doors.

One splendid July evening they were all to
have a fete champetre under the trees amongst the
hay. There was a fine group of oaks far down in
the park, close by a foaming stream, that rushed
over rocks and beneath rocks down into the calm
river Ayron that flowed below. Hither the servants
had brought chairs and tables, and every
imaginable luxury in the shape of fruits, preserves,
creams, cakes, etc., all laid out in most tempting
order. The Lady Georgiana had entered into the
spirit of the thing, and the children and Anna
were wild with pleasure : even the Countess was
excited by the gaiety. A family of neighbouring
children were invited for the occasion, and an
elder brother and sister were to bring them.

E 3

Just let us watch the scene: it is a pretty
one. Grandly the gnarled,, brawny branches of the
huge old centenarians of oaks stretch their leafy
canopy of brilliant green over the new-mown
emerald carpet beneath. Perseveringly, but in
vain, the impudent, unblushing, broad-faced sun
tries to peer through them at what is going on
below. No sooner does his glance penetrate halfway
down the screen, than a great arm flings out
fresh foliage to intercept it, and thus baffles his
impertinent curiosity. Upon a cushion on the
ground beneath the trees, the Lady Georgiana
sits, with a book in her hand, expecting the rest
of her party. Servants are moving to and fro,
busy and smiling, arranging and re-arranging the
feast. By the side of the trees the bullying braggart
of a stream brawls on its way, impotently
dashing itself against the large rocky stones, or
foaming over the branches of trees and briers that
droop into it. All around, the haymakers, in
their picturesque Welsh costume, are grouped at
various distances,  now resting a moment on
their rakes or forks to look furtively at their unusual
guests,  now busily, and sometimes gracefully,
drawing along the fresh, sweet hay in the
long prongs of the rake. Away between the
opening in those two high woods, you see the

ocean basking in the sun like a huge golden fish,
and flanked on one side by the blue mountain,
tipped with gold, that looks as if he were going to
bathe in the orient sky. The sun is yet high up
in the vast arch above, and seems resolved never
to give place to any less heating influence \ for the
breezes are frightened away by his intense rays,
and linger shyly amongst the trees  the only receptacles
of freshness. Shade, delicious shade !
how attractive you are to the toiling labourers,
burning beneath the heat ! how attractive to the
merry birds, more fortunate than the labourers, for
they have leisure to sing and make holiday within
your dominions ! how attractive to the weary cattle,
languidly reclining beneath your influence !

And not less attractive to the venerable Countess
and her attendant nymphs, now rapidly drawing
near to you. Seated in her garden chair, a large
silk umbrella over her head, she is triumphantly
wheeled along, her two little grandchildren pulling
before, and Anna pushing behind. Just as they
are about to leave the drive and cross the greensward,
they perceive a gentleman approach, and
wonder who he is.

It must be Mr. Lewis Gwynne, says Violet.

Or Mr. Jenkinson, who is coming with Mary
and Janet," suggests Rose.

Nos lie would wait for his sisters," says grand-mamma.


Anna gazes fixedly into the distance. Nearer
the gentleman approaches, and nearer ; a fine, tall
figure, and good carriage. He quickens his pace.
Anna starts  turns pale  turns red  hides herself
behind the chair  changes her purpose, and comes
in front, and says with embarrassment 

'' It is  I think it is Captain Michelson."

The Countess suddenly rises from the seat, steps
from the chair, and in a few moments has her arms
round the neck of her grandson, and is fondly embraced
by him. Tears fill her eyes as she gazes on
the young man, and it is some seconds before she
recovers herself. Seeing this strange meeting from
a distance, the Lady Georgiana walks towards the
group. Meanwhile, with equal confusion on both
sides, Anna and Chatham have shaken hands, and
the little girls have been presented to their cousin.
Chatham, seeing the feast under the trees yonder
by the brook, insists on wheeling his grandmother
towards it ; but she declares the sight of him has
given her such strength that she will walk, and
leaning on his arm, followed by Anna and the
children, they advance to meet the Lady Georgiana.
Suddenly a carriage, full of young people, drives
up, and stops opposite our group. The young

people get out, and in a few minutes Mr. Lewis
Gwynne is seen. All the dispersed party unite in
the middle of the large hay-field, and walk together
towards the trees, the Countess leaning on
her grandson. Anna has soon a cavalier on each
side of her, in the persons of Mr. Lewis Gwynne
and Mr. Jenkinson, but she has not much to say
to either. Chatham glances back once or twice,
and doubtless says to himself, " Annabella Burton
is Annabella Burton still, the little coquette V but
he meets her eye once, and the quick blush half
reassures him. The children run on together, and
make almost as sweet, and quite as mirthful, music
as the winged choristers in the large trees. The
Lady Georgiana is astonished at finding herself
saluted by that handsome young man, and highly
delighted when she hears that he is her nephew.

In due course of time they reach the scene of
their festivities, and seat themselves, some on
chairs, others on the trunks of the trees, or new-mown
grass, forming a pretty picture. Anna helps
the Lady Georgiana to pour out tea and coffee,
and looks, in her broad-brimmed garden hat, not
unlike the Daphne and Chloe of pastoral times.
Of course the gentlemen make themselves useful,
and flit about from Lady Georgiana to Anna, with
warm water, cups and saucers, and all kinds of

edibles, whilst the happy children fly here, there,
and everywhere, and look like so many fairies
dancing and sporting on the greensward.

"I fear you are not well, my dear Miss Burton,"
said the Countess to Anna. " I am sure it
was bad for you to draw me all the way from the
house in the hot sun. You look so flushed, and
you have thrown off your mantle ; that is dangerous
when you are heated. Chatham, will you take
Miss Burton her mantle, and beg her to put it on?"

No, really  thank you  I am quite well," said
Anna, drawing back as Chatham approached.

Pray allow me," said he, " holding up the light
white muslin cloak ; " you may take cold, though
I scarcely know how this can keep you warm."

Again their eyes met. Anna turned away, and
Chatham, throwing the mantle over her shoulders,
returned to his grandmothers side, looking vexed,
Anna made innumerable blunders in the matter of
cream and sugar, and her attendant swains found
her so reserved and unlike herself, that each asked
himself what could be the matter.

Have I been so unfortunate as to offend you.
Miss Burton?" asked Mr. Lewis Gwynne in an
under tone, as he took a cup of tea from her hand.

"Offend me? how?" asked Anna, looking surprised
at the question.

"I do not know how, but your manner is so
unusually constrained this evening'

Really ! I was not aware' said Anna ; " but I
assure you it would be too much trouble to be offended'


Mr. Lewis Gwynne bowed, but did not understand
an answer that would have put down most
people.

"Worshiped as usual' half whispered Captain
Michelson, as he too came for some tea for Miss
Jenkinson : "' out of sight, out of mind is the
general motto of ladies."

And of gentlemen also' replied Anna, hastily
bending over the teapot.

"Janet would like some strawberries and cream,
if you please, Miss Burton," interrupted Violet,
putting her hand on Anna's shoulder.

Mamma says I may carry old Mary a whole
basin of tea. Miss Burton," cries Rose, laying her
little hand on the other shoulder. " Will you help
me when you have finished, and give me a plate
of cake and bread-and-butter for her children ?
they are all in the hatfield."

"Let me mix the strawberries and cream, and
you carry that cup of tea to the young lady, little
Cousin," said Chatham, seating himself on the
grass at Anna's feet, with a plate of fruit on his

E 3

lap. " And may I go with you to take the tea to
your old pensioner little Cousin number two?"

"Rose is my name, Cousin Chatham, if you
please," said the child.

Well, Rose, may I carry the tea?"

If Miss Burton will let you," was the demure
reply.

Chatham laughed, and Anna joined.

"Will you let me , Miss Burton?" he asked,
casting such an expressive glance at Anna, that
hers soon fell beneath it.

You are not under my tuition," she said.

Oh, do not say so ! " he rejoined.

"Chatham! what are you doing?" cried the
Countess, from her seat under the largest of the

Mixing strawberries and cream for little Janet,"
replied Chatham. " Who is little Janet ?" he continued,
addressing Rose.

I will fetch her ;" and the child ran off, returning
soon with a rosy, curly-headed pet, that
Chatham placed by his side, and to whom he gave
the plate he had filled.

I am so thankful he is not altered' said the
Countess to her daughter. " See how nice he is
to Miss Burton and the children."

"And so handsome ! " said the Lady Georgiana,

not insensible to her nephew's good looks, however
insensible she might have been to those of other
men. " What a pretty group. Mother !  Chatham
and the children all sitting round Miss Burton,
and she looking so beautiful and bashful above
them."

When the repast was concluded, Anna busied
herself in filling the basin with tea, and collecting
the plate of cakes, little Rose duly assisting.

"Oh ! Aunt Georgiana," said Chatham, " I wish
you would sacrifice the remains of the feast to the
haymakers, in honour of my arrivals'

I do not think they would rejoice in strawberries
and cream'' said Lady Georgiana. " Watkins,"
turning to a servant, "order cold meat and bread-and-cheese
and ale to be brought here. Tell the
housekeeper she is to send enough for the haymakers."


Come, little ones ! " exclaimed Chatham, running
away, followed by the children, who persisted
in dragging Anna with them.

"Pa sut yr ydych chwi?'' said Chatham to an
old man, who took ofi" his hat as he came up. "You
see I can talk Cymraeg.''

He had mastered about a dozen Welsh sentences
when he was a boy, and had not forgotten them.

"How do you do?"

Hearty J diolch i chi, Sir/'" was the reply,
with a pleased smile.

You must all come and drink my health," said
Chatham; and immediately began to collect the
haymakers, and to send them forthwith to the
scene of the festivities.

Old men and women, bashful youths and blushing
girls, and some half-dozen children, were soon
assembled round the cloth spread upon the grass,
seated in picturesque attitudes, awaiting the round
of beef, cheese, and ale, already visible in the distance.
The provisions arrived, Chatham and Mr.
Lewis Gwynne carved vigorously, and had soon
the satisfaction of seeing all their rough and ready
guests eat with marvellous good appetite. The
ladies went towards the brook, and remained away
until they heard great cheering, when they returned
to the pic-nic party, to hear Captain Michelsons
health drunk, and to see Chatham standing up in
his grandmothers chair, and making a speech, of
which the listeners only understood the few Welsh
sentences with which he continually interlarded it.
The concluding, "lechyd da i chwi/'f was rapturously
received, and the young Captain was considered,
and not altogether unreservedly, one of the
kindest gentlemen in the world.

" Very well, I thank you." t "Yom health."

By this time the heat of the day had abated,
and the cool breezes of evening were beginning to
expel the sultry atmosphere. Leaving the rustic
gathering to the care of the domestics, the more
polished party strolled about amongst the sweet
hay, or under the grand old trees by the brook.
The merry children played here and there, and the
Lady Georgiana was much scandalized at seeing
Chatham covering them with the hay, after having
tossed them down very unceremoniously upon the
haycocks. As to the Countess, she thought everything
he did perfect, and could not remove her
eyes from the fine, manly figure, so gracefully
bending to amuse childhood. And then she considered
it so kind of him to come, once more, to
visit her.

Ahat deceptions do we not practise upon ourselves,
and upon each other, during our lives, particularly
the first half of them ! How many of
us go to visit aged grandmothers, aunts, cousins.
Mends, with the avowed dutiful purpose of compassionate
their rheumatism, and amusing their
old-age, whilst we have a secret eye to some comfortable
legacy, fine estate, household furniture
and plate, or, maybe, to the good sporting on the
manor, or the still more amusing sporting within
doors, as in Chatham's case !  some pretty cousin.

a companion, or cousin's governess, or some nice
friend in the neighbourhood not to be met under
other circumstances ! And how blindly and kindly
the good old gentleman dr lady looks on, winking
good-naturedly at the real facts of the case, and
pretending to see the ostensible ones ! The Countess
knows that her grandson cannot come to visit
her for the sake of her money, because half of it
will be his at her death ; but she does not know
that the blushing and beautiful Anna Burton was
nearly becoming her granddaughter, and is the
attraction that draws the weathercock of a Chatham
to Plas Ayron. And who would wish to undeceive
the dear lady ? Certainly not her grandson;
certainly not Anna; they would not be so
cruel. Who would desire to be undeceived under
such circumstances? Nobody with any amount
of anxiety about his own happiness. Let us clothe
ourselves with the impression that our relations
and friends visit us for our own sakes, and because
they like our society and love our persons, and
cast aside the suspicious habit of seeing real motives
through the thick veil of innocent deception.
On the one side we gain everything,  happiness,
comfort, the belief that we are beloved, and perhaps,
in time, the love itself: on the other side,
we lose everything,  faith, felicity, friendship ;

three fs well worth blending into one person, and
much too valuable to be lost. Woe to that man
who, dwelling in the " Palace of Truth," can look
into the heart of his friend ! He must inevitably
quarrel with him directly ; for where is the
friend who could bear to have all his thoughts
scrutinized,  the Orestes who considers his Places
perfect? where, to return from ancient to
modem examples, the military grandson who would
devote a leave-of-absence to his grandmother ?

Who is that prig of a parson, my dear Grandmother
?" said Chatham, eying Mr. Lewis Gwynne,
who was assiduously talking to Anna.

You remember our old rector, Mr. Gwynne ?"
was the reply ; ' he is his son, and the living is
kept for him until he takes priests orders. He is
very good-natured: we think he has lost his heart."

 He seems a confounded fool !" said Chatham.

The Countess opened her eyes.

'' My dear boy !"

I beg your pardon. Grandmother ; but I have
a great aversion to parsons with huge white neckties
; they always remind me of those pigeons with
ruffs ; and that fellow is so awfully conceited.
How can Miss Burton bear to listen to him ?"

"It would be a very suitable match in many
ways, though certainly in point of manners and

appearance she is very superior," said the Countess.


"Yes, and in family and everything else' exclaimed
Chatham ; " the Burtonss are an excellent
old family  as good as any in Somersetshire."

"Cousin Chatham," here interrupted Violet,
kneeling down at the bottom of the bank on which
the Countess and Chatham were sitting, " will you
help us to dance a quadrille ? Mamma says we may
under the trees in that nice smooth place."

"Do, my dear," said the Countess. "Do not
mind me ; I shall be delighted to look at you."

In a few minutes they were all dancing, and
Chatham exhausting himself by humming quadrille
tunes the while, in which Anna, compassionate
his condition, occasionally assisted. That vile little
coquette, seeing that Chatham looked thunder-clouds
at Lewis Gwynne when she was dancing
with him, became suddenly more animated, and
made herself so agreeable to the " prig of a parson,"
that the said " prig " began to fancy he had completed
his conquest of the beauty. Chatham however
danced with her in his turn, and his thunder-clouds
were soon succeeded by sunbeams, when he
found that Anna was more charming than ever.
She was more prudent than he was. Proud as
she was of her conquest,  happy as she felt to see

Chatham again, she knew that, as governess in his
aunts family, she must not permit the familiar
intercourse they had enjoyed at the Mansfords,
and therefore rather avoided speaking to him apart
than courted conversation.

The evening passed delightfully. They danced,
and wandered about until nearly ten o clock, when
the carriage drove off the guests, and the family
returned to the house. The moon had risen, and
was disputing the kingdom of evening with the
sun, whose fading beams proclaimed that the
struggle was well-nigh over. The Countess, leaning
on her grandson, and surrounded by the rest
of the party, walked to her chair, and then gave
herself up to his tender mercies as charioteer. All
rejoiced in the presence of the gay and diverting
Chatham.

CHAPTER XX.

I know not how, but martial men are given to love ; I think
it is, but as they are given to wine ; for perils commonly ask to
be paid in pleasures."  Bacon's Essays.

Chatham managed to exist for more than a month
at Plas Ayron. He insisted on no alteration
being made, either in the hours or occupations of
the family, on his account; so that after the first
day, all went on quietly and regularly as usual.
It would have diverted some of his army friends
to have seen him dining at two o clock and drinking
tea at six, reading aloud of an evening, or
wandering about with his little cousins and Anna.
To have watched his devotion to his grandmother,
and his attention to his aunt, his care of certain
Welsh ponies on which Anna and the children
were wont to ride, and his frequent visits to the
schoolroom, to make inquiries and arrangements
respecting the said ponies ; they would have voted
him a domestic character at once, and would have
begun to inquire what could have made the gay
and somewhat dissipated Captain Michelson so

steady and well-behaved. And they would not
have been alone in their inquiries: the Lady
Georgiana would have joined them. With all her
placidity she had a quick perception of the motives
of those around her. and read character well.
So did her mother, when not personally interested
in those she studied. The following conversation
may illustrate this difference between the parent
and child. They were alone in the Countess-boudoir
when it took place, Chatham, Anna, and
the children having gone on an evenings pony expedition
to the sea-shore.

Surely, my dear mother, you cannot be so
blind ! said the Lady Georgiana, in a voice, for
her, somewhat elevated.

' I see nothing, my love, but the proper civility
and politeness that are due from a gentleman to a
lady, and that, in my younger days, every gentleman
paid, and every lady received, as a matter of
course. I am delighted to see that Chatham is
above his generation in the present case, as some
young men might rather eschew paying attention
to a lady in Miss Burton's position''

"But can you not perceive that Chatham is
never at his ease  never himself  except when he
is in Miss Burton's presence ? He is certainly
always kind and gentlemanlike ; but when does he

sit an hour at a time either with you or me , without
finding some excuse for going to the children ?
He has faithfully promised Violet this things or he
must do the other for Rose. When driving alone
with us he is absent or anxiously inquiring how
long our visit to such and such a neighbour will
last ; but if Miss Burton is of the party the drive
can scarcely be too long. I will say this for him
he is a very bad dissembler."

My dear Georgians I never knew you so severe.
I am only glad that he finds amusement
and is kept so long amongst us. I think he is
naturally fond of children and Violet and Rose
are charming, everybody says. Of course Miss
Burton, beautiful, accomplished, and agreeable, is
an attraction, but not in the way you mean, I am
convinced."

 At all events, it is dangerous for her : you
allow that he is very attentive. There is no reason
that she should not attribute his attentions to the
right cause  at least to what I consider the right
cause ; and if, after all, he does, as you say, mean
nothing, the disappointment to her may be great."

' Depend upon it. Miss Burton has been too
much accustomed to admiration all her life to give
more weight to it than it deserves. Look at her
reception of Lewis Gwynne's very evident devotion."


Strange dearest mother, that you can perceive
in an indifferent person what you cannot discover
in one so near to you. Your argument may be
easily turned against yourself. Miss Burton is
wholly uninterested in Mr. Lewis Gwynne, and
receives his attentions accordingly; but if you
watch narrowly, you will not see the same indifference
towards Chatham. She certainly behaves
admirably; much more discreetly than I should
have supposed she would have done: still the
blushes and frequent confusion tell tales.

Young ladies are always blushing, my dear :
that is no criterion." The Countess spoke with
slight irritability.

Try Chatham, Mother : young military men
are not given to blushing, yet I have seen him
blush like a girl when you spoke of Mr. Lewis
Gwynne and Miss Burton. I assure you some stop
must be put to it."

We put a stop to your sister s first attachment
because the lover was not rich enough : she married
Mr. Michelson, and was miserable for life. God
forbid that I should have the sin of making her
only son miserable in the same way ! I wash
my hands of everybody's attachments, and have
done so ever since. Let them run their natural
course,  live or die as God appoints. Not that I
see any reason to fear on the present occasion."

*' His father would never consent to such a thing :
you know he is hard as irons

Harder, harder ! You can make something of
iron; yes, so you could of him  polish him into
steel, which is harder still. I should have a wicked
satisfaction in circumventing him. Chatham hinted
the other night that he wanted him to marry Miss
Erskine''

My dear mother ! that is not like you : we
must love our enemies, and return good for evil''

He was the death of my child; a slow, cruel,
wearing death'' The Countess was getting excited.


Do you think there would be any harm in my
speaking to Chatham, Mother, as his nearest relative
and most interested friend ?"

There could be no harm ; but beware of putting
into his head notions that would not otherwise
come there."

He is not quite so innocent as that. If he is
not serious, he is flirting with Miss Burton, and
that we ought not to allow : she is under our protection,
and we stand in the light of her guardians."

'' You are right, my love ; but I am sure Chatham
is the soul of honour."

All young men are till they are tempted ; but
henceforth just watch them with the new eyes I have

kindly given yoii and then let me know whether
you do not change your opinion."

Be it so, my dear ; and now let us go and look
after them : I shall be on the qui vive from this
time forth."

Whilst the Countess and her daughter were thus
discussing their respective merits , Chatham and
Anna were seated on a piece of rock, watching the
flowing of the tide. The children were gathering
pebbles and seaweed not far off, and the ponies
were quietly picking such bits of grass as the interstices
of the rocks afforded. Conversation had
been animated between the pair on the rocks, to
judge from the expression of their countenances;
but there was a pause. Annabellas eyes were
fixed on the advancing waves; Chatham s were
gazing into hers, as if to read the meaning beneath
their proud, defiant glance.

But if my father would consent,  if I had the
means," began Chatham with hesitation.

You know he never will consent," said Anna
hastily, '' and that your means can only be increased
by the death of your grandmother: and
God grant her many more years to enjoy her own
fortune."

Amen ! I am sure I should be the last person
in the world to wish to shorten them. But if you

would only consent to an engagement, until times
mend  '

Until I am sick of teaching, and we are tired
of one another, and finally, break off the engagement
because you find me grown old and ugly.
That is not to my taste. Besides, do you think
your father would consent to an engagement, if he
would not consent to a union T

But  but  of course I did not mean him to
know  that would be madness."

And the Countess, and Lady Georgiana, are
they to be equally in the dark ?" Miss Annabella
was beginning to look dignified.

Do you think yourself  would it be advisable
for them to be made acquainted with what was
done in direct opposition to my father s wishes ?"

'* And do you think that I  a Burton, the daughter
of one of the proudest and most particular menin
the world  would stoop to remain here as governess,
knowing that I am voluntarily practising a
deceit upon the very family who are fostering me ?
I had hoped you knew me better ?"

The tears sprang into Annans eyes, and she attempted
to rise, but Chatham detained her.

"Forgive me  I am beside myself. I cannot
bear to lose you : it is distraction  and I know not
what to propose. Can you  will you suggest anything,
if indeed you really love me."

Anna could have said, "Sell your horses and
dogs, part with some unnecessary superfluities, and
marry me on your pay as Captains but pride and
propriety equally forbade the words, and summoning
all her resolution she said proudly 

My only suggestion is, that we part. This
kind of torture is, at least, bad for me."

Part ! and so coldly said !  and for you, perhaps,
to marry another, and forget me as entirely
as if you had never known me."

Perhaps so : I cannot say : but I dare say not
more entirely than you will manage to forget me."

May I not write to you ? Is there no way of
inducing you to wait until  ?" Chatham could
not help seeing a kind of smile in the eyes of his
tormentor, as he paused again on the word " until."

Until your grandmother dies  you may as
well finish the sentence. No : I do not think I am
very constant by nature ; I am sure I should not
be so were I chained for any indefinite period ; and
I do not think you are half as constant as I am.
We are not a hero and a heroine, nor have we
many of the heroic attributes,  at all events I have
not, and I will never promise what I may not, perhaps,
perform. Besides, I do not choose to belong
to any one whose family would not be proud to receive
me amongst them. I am as good as any of

VOL. IT. F

you. Titles or money are not superior to a line of
unblemished ancestors, gentlemen by birth and nature.
I know how it is : your father was selfish
you are selfish. You each want me just because
you fancy me, but would not think me a good
match for the other. I choose to be looked upon
as equal by everybody, and would not stoop to a
prince or an emperor .

What can you mean. Miss Burton V said Chatham
in evident astonishment : " have I done or
said anything to merit such language T

I know what you all are, cried Anna ; " you
talk of equality as a matter of course ; you say
that talent equalizes  beauty refines  family ennobles
; but you believe in nothing, act upon nothing,
but money. Money ! I hate the word.
Family ! yes, there is something grand in a good
old family : men and women who add lustre to one
another s names, and become more glorious the
longer their race exists ;  but money ! paltry gold,
silver, or copper, dug out of the earth, I spurn it,
and everybody that makes a god of it.'

As Anna uttered the last long speech, she rose
from her seat, and waved her hands in the excitement
of the moment. The children, who had been
induced at first by her raised voice and agitated
manner to cease from their' amusement, now imagined

she was beckoning them towards her, and
approaching, effectually put a stop to all further
conversation.

We must return now/ she said impatiently,
and, taking Violets hand, proceeded towards the
ponies.

Almost before Chatham could rise and follow
she had placed Violet on her pony and was herself
mounted. Leaving him to manage for Rose, she
cantered off, accompanied by Violet, who seemed
much surprised at this mode of proceeding. The'
scarcely ceased cantering until they reached the
house, Chatham and Rose following more quietly.
As they had two miles to ride, it is not surprising
that they were reproached by the Lady Georgiana
for the heated state of theirs ponies when they arrived
; but Anna excused herself under the plea of
having hurried home to answer a letter she had
forgotten, and at once hastened to her room to execute
the said letter. Her flushed and excited face
and manner did not pass unnoticed by the Lady
Georgiana, who asked Violet whether anything was
the matter with Miss Burton.

'' I do not know, Mamma ; but I think Cousin
Chatham and she have been quarrelling," said the
chid.

f2

What do you mean, love ? That is not quite
the way to speak of grown-up people."

Only we heard their voices rather loud from a
distance, and saw Miss Burton leave Cousin Chatham
in a hurry ; and Cousin Chatham looked so
surprised ! Oh, Mamma, I do hope they have not
quarrelled ! They were such good friends always ;
and Rose and I want them to marry one another
so very much."

Indeed ! you settle matters very quickly. I
dare say they have not quarrelled."

'' Oh ! there are Cousin Chatham and Rose
coming quite slowly. And there is the post-bag,
Mamma : may I take Miss Burton her letters ?"

Lady Georgiana opened the post-bag, which the
footman brought in, and speedily gave Violet a
letter for Anna. The child flew with it to Anna's
room.

There is a letter from your sister. Miss Burton ;
I know her handwriting and the post-mark. Do
not quarrel and be angry with poor Cousin Chatham,
if you please, for I know he loves you very
much."

Anna stooped to kiss the child, and brush off a
tear; then whispering, "Bun away now, dear, I
must read my letter," was again alone.

She opened Jessie's letter, and read it. Signs

of impatience were occasionally manifested as she
came upon the following passages : 

sand now, my dearest sister, let me tell you
candidly what I think of your daily intercourse
with Captain Michelson. It is most dangerous for
you, and must require all yom' care and caution to
prevent disagreeable results. It was, to say the
least, selfish in him to subject you to this annoyance.
Pray do not allow your feelings to get the
better of your reason and common sense. Remember,
that whatever Captain Michelson may say,
or however much he may work upon your feelings,
he cannot marry whilst his father is against his
doing so. Even if he were, as you once suggested,
to brave his father s anger, reduce his private expenditure,
and marry you upon his own pay, what
would be the consequences ? For your own sake,
as well as his, do not allow him to think of such a
thing. If it is right that you should become his
wife, circumstances will be so arranged by Divine
Providence as to lead to that event : if not, I trust
in God you may be strengthened to bear disappointment
: but, oh ! pray to be kept from doing yourself,
and helping another to do, what is not right,
and may lead to misery. Do not be angry at this
sermon. I am so anxious about you, darling Anna.
I know the temptation. I feel so much for you.

If we had a mother to advise and take care of us
it might be easier for us to avoid temptations ; but
left to ourselves, we must pray for guidance from
above, and hold fast by one another. Even candour
may keep us from some harm. I wish I were
near you, to give you such advice and support as I
am capable of, in this, for you, trying time. Endeavour
not to let ambition, or a desire to emancipate
yourself from your present duties, overcome
your prudence. It is the first step that misleads.
I can only commit you, as I do almost hourly, to
the care of One who is the Father of the fatherless,
and entreat you to give yourself up, with infantine
humility, to His direction. 

Anna read the preceding extract more than once
before she put the letter down ; then murmured 

She does not know what it is to love, or she
would not write thus of prudence and reason. I
feel that I would marry him tomorrow, if he would
run the risk : I could beg or starve with him. But
selfish and calculating as he is, he will give up nothing
for me. Many captains marry. Pshaw ! he
might marry if he choose. I will not see him
again, for he is simply amusing himself with me, 
with me ! flirting, probably, with me ! And Lady
Georgiana suspects it, I am sure. How glad I am
that I never  no never  told him that I loved him !

I would rather put an end to my existence than let
him suppose I care more for him than he does forme.
Yes I am almost sure he is trifling with me.
As Jessie says he had no right to come here unless
he could marry me. I will not speak to him again
or I will be colder than ice  or 1 will torment
him by flirting with that odious Lewis Gwynne
that the Countess wants me to marry ,  or  or  I
will just tell him calmly that I do not care for
him; and so have the satisfaction of mortifying
him, at least. And with this laudable resolution
Anna burst into tears.

I suppose it is needless to say that Anna was
most unjust. Captain Michelson was as honourable
in his intentions towards her, as he was undisguised
in his attentions ; but he had, as yet,
self-command enough not to plunge himself and
her into a labyrinth of difficulties, by marrying,
before he could support her. He knew that he
had rushed a great deal too far already ; and the
worst part of it was, that he would not, willingly,
withdraw a step. He was, in short, as desperately
smitten as even Anna could have wished.

Whilst Anna is aggravating her own feelings in
the way we have described, the following conversation
is going on between Chatham and the Lady
Georgiana : 

"Have you offended Miss Burton, Chatham''
asked the latter. '' I thought she looked annoyed,
and it is unusual for her to arrive unescorted."

Upon my word. Aunt George, I do not know.
Ladies are so odd  you are all so odd."

Will you forgive my putting a home question,
Chatham ? You are very much struck with Miss
Burton  that I see : why do you pay her such
constant attention ?"

You answer your question before you ask it.
Aunt : I suppose, because 1 am struck with her."

But, Chatham, is it quite right in you to devote
yourself to her? Will it not raise notions
that must be disappointed ?"

' I hope not : I assure you I have no such intention.
I have too great a respect for her and
her family."

Did you know her before she came here as intimately
as you seem to do now ?"

We had been acquainted about a month ; quite
long enough to know most young ladies. I find
three days sufficient, generally; but I must honestly
confess I do not know Miss Annabel Burton yet."

You like her, I should imagine ?"

Certainly : could any one avoid liking a handsome
and agreeable young lady ? You like her
yourself; my grandmother likes her ; the children

like her; the servants like her; and assuredly
Gwynne likes her. I hate singularity so of course
I like her too."

'' You are never serious , Chatham ; this is not
altogether a matter for jesting."

'1 am not jesting, upon my honour: I candidly
say, I like her : what would you have more ?"

What would you have more, Chatham, is the
question ?"

"Why  let me consider,  I suppose, that she
should like me : that is the next desirable point to
be gained, is it not ?"

But if she were to like you too well ?"

Impossible : unless, indeed, you say, ' Not
wisely, but too wells which would be unpolite on
your part." Chatham spoke vsdth assumed carelessness,
but it was evident to his aunt that he was
troubled at heart, and knew not how to answer
her. She continued with increased gravity 

My dear Chatham, will you allow me to presume
on two things?  first, on my being your
aunt ; and second, on my being, to a certain extent,
Miss Burtons guardian and chaperon'

Speak freely to me. Aunt. I really want someone
to talk to who will advise me disinterestedly :
not that I ever follow anybody advice  you must
understand that before we begin."

F 3

Then allow me to say that, sorry as I should
be to lose you, I think, the sooner you rejoin your
regiment the better."

A very cool way of telling your dearly beloved
nephew that you want to get rid of him."

For Miss Burton's sake, if not for your ovn."

For mine much more than hers : I assure you,
I am the most vulnerable of mortals : unlike my
military predecessor, Achilles, my heels are the
only invulnerable part. I never take to my heels,
but face the enemy  fight it out, my dearest Aunt."

That is wiser in war than love, Chatham."

Au contraire : all violent passions are alike ;
give them free vent, and you get rid of them;
bottle them up, and they get rid of you. I give
you an example :  I am a bottle ; love is the champagne.
Let off the cork discreetly, out sparkles
the champagne,  it leaves the bottle by degrees ;
keep the cork in too long, it bursts the bottle, 
pop ! we die together. Love and I, champagne and
bottle."

But seriously, Chatham."

Seriously, Aunt. You mean to infer that I amin
love with Miss Burton, and she with me ; or
mutual. Quite true, as regards your humble servant
 doubtful as regards the young lady. There !
I have made a clean breast of it ; now I will anticipate

all you have to say. My father will never
consent: cut me off with a penny, or less  no
penny at all. I know that ; he has told me so
already. My most excellent grandmother and
charming aunt will highly disapprove, and bring
forward frequent and numerous most convincing
arguments to show the folly of my proceedings 
my own small stock of prudence will rise up against
me  and I shall be condemned on all sides. But
now I must inform you that the young lady herself
is the only influential opponent. She distinctly
refuses to engage herself to me, either covertly or
openly,  as far as I can understand, upon pride and
principle both ; and seeing little probability of matters
mending, she suggests the propriety of immediate
separation. I tell you this, that you may
understand Miss Burton s conduct, and exculpate
her from any designs on your graceless nephew.
For my own part, I do not care who knows that I
am sincerely attached to her, and would marry her
tomorrow if I were not afraid of my father  that
is to say, if she would have me.

"And the separation, Chatham?" asked the Lady
Georgiana anxiously.

I shall be compelled to part from you all, my
dear Aunt, tomorrow, unless you can get Dr. Jones
to write me a sick certificate. I have been doing

my best to sham illness, and I tell you honestly,
that I should either have broken my leg or painted
myself red for scarlatina this very evening, if Miss
Burton had been more encouraging. As it is, I
suppose I must go/

Chathamss gaiety was fairly ended, when he came
to the " I suppose I must go, and his face assumed
an expression of such real pain and sorrow,
that his aunt went up to him, and put her hand
affectionately on his shoulder.

My dear Chatham, are you really so much distressed
T she asked.

My dear Aunt, we all have our little private
feelings, and it is long since I have known the real
kindness of relations. I am pained at bidding you
all farewell."

But we should always be glad to see you : why
not come oftener ?"

The truth is, that when one is fairly in the
world, and surrounded by its pleasures, one does
not know how to get away from it. Vogue la
galere : I shall be in it again tomorrow, heart and
soul, I dare say, and forget all the good I have
gained in this quiet place."

Chatham, how volatile you are ! Can you
never be serious five minutes at a time ?"

Ten, if you please, my dear Aunt : and I never

felt more serious in my life. If I keep in my present
mind I shall be like that famous king in English
history  Henry the Second, I think it was 
who never smiled after his son was drowned. I
only hope I shall not come to such an untimely
end : I believe he died of eating lampreys."

You make one laugh in spite of oneself, Chatham.
There is one consolation in the matter : you
will never die of a broken heart."

Do not be too sure of that ; just feel mine at
this moment. It will;, at least, prove to you the
unsoundness of the fable that all lovers lose their
hearts."

Lady Georgiana placed her hand on her nephew's
side, and started back when the rapid pulsation of
his heart seemed to strike away the hand that
would have restrained it.

My dearest Chatham, what is the matter?"
she exclaimed, much alarmed.

* It is always so when I am excited," was the
reply ; " Miss Burton will have to answer for it, I
suppose, for she is decidedly its innocent cause on
the present occasion. But pray do not look so
terrified. I am simply a sentimental young man,
and subject to occasional palpitations. Does not
that sound romantic ? Now I am going to make
myself fascinating, for a last coup che main on the

obdurate fair one- and thus speaking Chatham
hastened from the room looking very pale , and
having succeeded in alarming the Lady Georgiana
very much.

Shortly after the family party met at tea. The
Countess was the only one of the elder branches
who spoke or seemed as usual. They talked of
Chatham's departure on the morrow of which
Anna had been previously apprised by him, and
which had led to the conversation on the seashore.
Chatham was grave and thoughtful, except when
he occasionally exerted himself into unnatural sallies
of gaiety ; and Anna reserved and silent. The
Lady Georgiana looked uneasily from one to the
other, but read nothing in Anna's countenance but
an increased degree of hauteur. She was angry
with herself for feeling, for the first time, displeased
with the beauty and grace of which she
had before been an admirer. She wished however
not to make known by her manner to Anna that
she had become acquainted with Chatham's secret;
and the effort to appear herself threw a restraint
over her, which plainly indicated to Anna that she
at least suspected it. This made Anna even colder
and more distant to Chatham than she otherwise
would have been.

The pair who were really sincerely and disinterestedly

attached to each other, parted that night
with a cold touch of the fingers, which, whilst it
almost broke their hearts, conveyed a lie ; since it
told to each of the carelessness and worldliness of
the other, whilst, in truth, the affection and devotion
of both had never been so fervent. God only
knows how often loves and friendships have been
severed for ever by the chill, loose grasp of the
hand after some slight misunderstanding. The
parting succeeds to the touch, cold and heartless,
and the friends who, a few hours before, thought
that they were firm as a rock, are perhaps divided
as the rock by the earthquake, never again to be
united.

CHAPTER XXI.

Alas ! they had been friends in youth ;
But whispering tongues can poison truth ;
And constancy Ives in remains above,

And life is thorny, and youth is vain ;
And to be wroth with one we love

Doth work like madness on the brain."

Coleridge.

The following morning Chatham left at daybreak.
He was to meet the London mail at some distance,
and was obliged to start early. His admit was the
only person np to see him off, at least the only
one downstairs. He had gone to his grandmother's
room, at her request, to bid her farewell, and, in
passing, had run into his little cousins' sleeping
apartments to give them a kiss, as they lay, conscious,
on their pillows. He had fancied that he
heard sounds as of some one moving as he passed
Anna's room, but dared not hope she had risen to
see him again at that early hour. Whilst swallowing,
at his aunt's request, a cup of coffee, he said,
Do not, for my sake, allow what I have told you

to influence your manner towards Miss Burton.
She would be miserable if coldly treated ; indeed
I am persuaded would not remain with you a day.
If there is fault anywhere it is on my side. She
has always been prudent. She will probably be
glad when I am gone as I feel that I have tormented
her by proposing things that could never
take place. I am the most unlucky fellow in existence.
If I could only have fallen in love with

miss Erskine, I might have been perhaps but

never mind. Human Nature has her own ways of
teasing herself, and one of them is never to let her
own flesh and blood fall in love with the desirable
person. And now, God bless you ! Write to me ;
and if you would only tell me if Miss Burton is
well, or seems to care about my leaving, or  '

"I win not promise even to name her, Chatham,
so you must not expect it."

Chatham kissed his aunt, feigned to have left
something upstairs, for the purpose of passing once
more the door of her he longed to see ; muttered
"Fool that I am!" to himself; returned to the
drawing-room, kissed his aunt again, looked up
the staircase, as if expecting to see an apparition
when he re-entered the hall, and, finally, found
himself in his aunt's open carriage. He kissed
his hand to her as the coachman drove off", and on

passing a certain bedroom window gazed earnestly
up at it, and again kissed his hand. When he did
so however he little thought that there was a tearful
eye and an anxious face looking upon him from
behind the half-closed window-contains. Anna
was up and dressed. She perceived the wave of
the hand , and fearing that Chatham had seen her,
hastily withdrew. The movement revealed a portion
of her dress and hand to him, and he had the
somewhat melancholy satisfaction of knowing that
she must at least have been thinking of him.

From this time there was a change at Plas
Ayron. Strange it is that love and lovers invariably
bring changes. If it and they are happy, they
are so engrossed in each other, that everybody else
is weary of them and wishing them fairly married
and out of the way ; if unhappy, they cast a gloom
over the rest of the inmates of the house they are
in, and an outer darkness over themselves. Thus
Anna, being out of spirits herself, no longer enlivened
her friends and pupils with the airy cheerfulness
that had before characterized her. By fits
and starts she was excited, and apparently gay,
always striving to appear so, and by striving, only
making her melancholy more apparent. She even
flirted desperately with Lewis Gwynne, and almost
contrived to convince the Countess that she liked

him ; until to the surprise of everybody, he proposed,
and received, to his own astonishment and
indignation, a decided refusal. In vain the Countess
pleaded the eligibility of the match, the living
in prospect, the pleasure of having Anna for a
neighbour: she only excited the ill-suppressed
wrath of Anna, who, majestically waving her hand,
inquired whether her ladyship really thought that
she would marry a curate, and settle for life in a
country parsonage ; or worse, in a lodging in a
farm-house? So magnificent was she, that she
quite put down the excellent Countess, who began
to suspect there must be some truth in her
daughter's view of the case. This conviction however
only made her kinder than ever to Anna.
That sacrifice of one dear daughter on the altar of
Mammon, and her love for that daughter's son,
kept her feelings acutely sensitive on all matters of
the heart. She would rather have seen a runaway
match between the pair, and poverty afterwards,
than the splendid misery of riches without love.

The Lady Georgiana did her best to show no
change of manner to* Anna. There was however
a change : scarcely a stiffness, scarcely a coolness,
but a shade of distance and haughtiness that would
have been imperceptible in any one less free from
pride, both by nature and self-discipline, than she

was. Anna perceived it, and grew reserved and
ten times as haughty in return.

In the course of some months it was evident
that her health was failing, as well as her spirits.
She required excitement, and with Chatham had
disappeared all that was excitable. The monotony
of her life began to weary her; she longed for
home, for change: she sighed for Jessie and her
sisterly love and counsel ; she felt that she could
not get on without it. Even if she did not follow
her advice, still she desired it viva voce, and wished
to be able to give vent to her suppressed feelings.
We have long known that she had no self-restraint
except that engendered by pride, and knew nothing
of self-discipline. She thought she would broach
the subject to the Lady Georgiana ; but then she
remembered having refused Christmas holidays,
upon the plea of preferring them in the summer;
she remembered also that she had no money.
How the forty pounds she had received for her
first half-year's salary had gone she did not know.
She had sent innumerable presents home, and had
paid wonderful sums for carriage, in spite of
Jessie's remonstrances. She had given untold
shillings and half-crowns to troops of Irish beggars,
who regularly beset her in her walks; she
had feed every servant in the house at various

times, and in return for various kindnesses; she
had lavished silver on every pretty peasant-girl
or curly-headed child that pleased her fancy; in
short, she had spent or given away her money,
without, as the saying is, "having anything to
show for it/ True, she possessed a few more
dresses, some of which the Countess had given her ;
had added to her store of amusing books, and
finally, had bought of an Italian organ-boy two
guinea-pigs. These, her only stock-in-trade, had
multiplied so alarmingly that the gardener foretold
a famine in carrots, the cook in bread, and the
coachman in oats, to each of which worthies Anna
and the children had recourse for food, as opportunity
offered.

One day the Lady Georgiana had taken the children
for a drive : Anna, pleading headache, did not
accompany them. The Countess sent for her, and
they had, what she liked now better than anything
else at Plas Ayron, a tete-astute. The Countess
was genuinely fond of her, and, with true Irish
warmth of heart, always tried to make her happy.
She won her to talk unreservedly to her of all but
of Chatham. They were not often alone together,
and now Anna felt as if she had a great deal to
say, if she could only summon courage to say it.
It was rather a cold autumn day, and the Countess

was seated by a fire. One of the children's
low stools was near her, and Anna had placed herself
upon it, so that she was occasionally obliged
to raise her face to her companion; and sometimes,
when confused, she bent it over her lap.
The picture was a pretty one :  dignified age, and
graceful, grateful youth.

"I am quite sure you are not well," said the
Countess, ' and I wish you would tell me what is
the matter with you."

Anna could have answered, " Who can minister
to a mind diseased?" but she simply replied "that
she really did not know what was the matter with
her, but she sometimes felt tired and languid and
unfit for her duties."

I think a little port-wine and bark might set
you up."

Medicine never does me any good ; and I am
worse than a baby in taking it. 1 should, perhaps,
force myself to swallow it twice, and then throw it
away."

That would be a bad example for your pupils ;
they are not too strong-minded in that matter."

Oh ! I fear, my dear Madam, that I am not a
fitting example for them, just now, in many ways.
I do not struggle against my weakness  I cannot,
as some can, teach when I have a violent headache.

I feel my patience vanish. when my spirits are not
good. I am not fit to be a governesses

Anna was very despondent. Everything connected
with her had suddenly put on a mourning
robe : the very sun wore black in her sight.

You are nervous, I think ," said the Countess
kindly, '' and teaching is irksome to every one
under those circumstances. Perhaps change of air
would do you goods

Yes, yes ; if I could go home ! My sister
would cure me  she always does; I am sure I
should be well at Fairfield."

I dare say it would not be difficult for you to
go home for a time : my daughter would have no
objection, and the children would not be the worse
for a holiday."

Oh, thank you ! thank you !" exclaimed Anna,
clasping the Countesses hand and looking up at
her brightly. But her countenance suddenly fell :
she remembered her money difficulties.

Some obstacle?" inquired the Countess. 'swill
you not confide in me? I am sincerely your friend,
and might assist you with advices

I could not afibrd the journey," murmured
Anna ; " I have no money."

What ! you surely  " the Countess paused,
not liking to intrude further into the secrets of
Anna's account-book.

I am so foolish  so extravagant  so careless !
I know it : and I deserve to suffer. Whilst Jessie
is studying to save for every one, I save for no one,
and do no good."

Anna hid her face on her lap, and her long curls
fell over it. She was not in the habit of making
confessions to any one but her sister, and the
words she had uttered slipped from her unawares.
Neither was the Countess a demonstrative person,
usually; but Annans emotion caused her, for the
first time, to lay her hand on her head, half caressingly,
half soothingly. The unexpected kindness
caused Anna to look up into the Countess's face, and
then to seize the gentle hand and imprint a very
affectionate kiss upon it. Trifling as the action of
each to the other seems, it had a strange effect. The
slight, familiar touch of the Countess, who was
generally dignified in her courtesy, opened the
springs of Anna's loving heart, melted its pride,
and made it ready to confess faults and failings,
nay, even little weaknesses, more difficult to acknowledge
than glaring defects : whilst the warm
kiss of gratitude, and the bright, affectionate glance
of the young girl, aroused almost maternal feelings
in the breast of the Countess. A sudden recollection
of her own beautiful daughter, who had, years
ago, once sat at her feet, half broken-hearted, after

having given up an engagement at her request,
flashed upon her, and brought the tears to her
eyes. Hers had been a look of anguish, not of
gratitude : how much dearer the eyes that now
met hers ! She thought of that daughter's son,
and of his yielding, loving nature, so like his mother's.
She longed to make him happy, and to
atone to him for the wrong she had done his
mother. Thoughts of the " how and when ' came
into her mind ; and as they came, again the kindly
hand stroked the black locks of the wondering
Annabella.

'' If you go home for a holiday and a change of
airs' said the Countess, "you will promise to return
to us ? We cannot afford to lose you.

Oh, yes ! yes !" exclaimed Anna, " I would
not leave you for the worlds

*You must remember this promise, or my
daughter will not readily forgive my helping to
send you away from us. And as to the dear children,
they would be miserable Without you.

Anna thought, for the moment, that she should
be equally miserable without them, and she said so.

Just at this part of the conversation the carriage
wheels were heard at a distance. The Countess
rose from her seat, and went to an escritoire, from
which she took a well-filled purse.

VOL. II. " G

' You have done your best to amuse and please
me' she said " and that, I know, disinterestedly,
because, at first, you rather feared and shunned
me : I should like to please you. Will you allow
me to defray the expenses of your journey to and
from this place ? You must bring back health and
spirits in return."

She let the purse fall gently into Anna's lap,
and stooping over her, pressed her lips upon her
forehead.

Now, go to your room, and I will speak to my
daughter about it. When we meet again it will
all be settled."

With a vain effort to utter the words, " I do not
deserve it," Anna was gently impelled from the
room by the Countess, and shortly succeeded therein
by the Lady Georgiana.

The Countess soon made known to her daughter
Anna's wishes, and her own promise of seconding
them.

I think it the wisest plan possible," said the
Lady Georgiana, " and she has, undoubtedly, well
earned her holiday. The children have done very
well, particularly before Chatham came; and I
can keep them at their lessons a little daily. I
only wish Chatham had never come here : nothing
has gone smoothly since he left."

Do you not thinks my love that your manner
has changed towards Miss Burton V

Not knowingly. I intend to be the same ; but
it is impossible to feel open with a person who,
you know, holds a secret which is no secret to
you, and which both are equally tenacious of
guarding.

Would it not be better to come to a clear understanding
with her ?''

Oh ! not for worlds ! I would not have her
suppose that I thought it even possible that there
could have ever been anything serious between her
and Chatham."

"And why?"

The disparity of their conditions  our own relative
positions  his father's opposition  how can
you ask why, my dear Mother ? The very notion
is too absurd. Under no circumstances could such
a marriage take place."

You do not practise your own precepts, Georgians.
I own that there are insuperable obstacles
at present, but not those you name. I have often
heard you calmly and trustingly discuss the shortness
of life, and the folly of the minute distinctions
of rank that run away with so much real happiness.
This was all in the abstract then ; you have
not learnt to bring it home. I, who am soon going

G 2

out of this world , into that where the poor of
spirit  reign, have only just legun to realize the
fact ; so it is no wonder you have yet to learn it.
We are slow to perceive the truth that God is no
respecter of persons, and that we shall be sternly
questioned of our pride of heart. He knows that
I shall have much to answer for; I pray not to
add to the long catalogue."

The Lady Georgiana blushed. She was a Christian
woman, but, as her mother said, had not yet
strength sufficient to put in practice her own
theory. She had much of the leaven of this world
clinging about her ; who has not ? She took the
Countesses hand tenderly, and said 

Dearest Mother, I do not think we need dispute
this point. You yourself own that there are
insuperable obstacles in this very disagreeable
affair; and, until these are surmounted, we must
let it rest. When that happens, we can talk it
over again. I dare say both Chatham and Miss
Burton will console themselves ; they are not constant
enough to die of broken hearts."

Constancy is too beautiful a thing to jest upon,
my love. Wherever I have seen it I have observed
great strength of character and depth of feeling ;
and even in the bad it elevates and refines. I
hope, for his own sake, Chatham may possess it.

I should esteem, if I could not love him, all the
more for it. Sometimes very volatile people are
constants'

Not often, I fear, my dear Mother ; and in the
present instance I must be allowed to separate my
hopes from yours."

The Countess rose, and, pointing solemnly upwards,
said, " Oh ! let not pride divide our hopes ;
but let them soar together, bearing one another
up to that heaven which we can only enter through
the merits of One whose perfect life taught us the
very essence of humility."

The Lady Georgiana embraced her mother tenderly,
and said she would go at once and tell Miss
Burton that she could leave whenever she liked.
She went accordingly; and her manner was so
much more cordial to Anna than it had been for
some time past, that she began to think the Fates
were weaving some especial web in her favour.
She did not venture to put Chatham in as one
of the threads, because she felt assured that he
was independent of the smiles or frowns of the inmates
of Plas Ayron; but she hoped that some
favourable change connected with him had taken
place. By-and-by, however, she made up her
mind that the said change was occasioned by a
knowledge obtained, she did not pretend to understand

how, that Chatham had quite given her up.
This suggestion of some evil fairy took such strong
possession of her mind;, that it rooted up much of
the pleasure implanted by the Countess, and cast
her again on her reserve and dignity.

She resolved to set off in a day or two for home.
Once having obtained permission to depart, she
could not rest until she was fairly off. She and
her little pupils, assisted by their maid, worked
night and day at preparations, and her clothes
were ready and her boxes packed in a singularly
short space of time. Never before had she anticipated
holidays with such nervous excitement,
never felt the restless anxiety and longing for
home that she now did. Always a spoilt child,
always fretting under restraint, it seemed to her
as if the last nine months of teaching had been
insupportable, and she longed for perfect liberty
as if she had been an imprisoned bird, instead of
one allowed to fly at ease through pleasant aviaries,
subject only to a slight guardianship. Poor
Anna ! like all those who allow passion or feeling
to master their prudence and common sense, she
made herself miserable without due cause, and suffered
more, perhaps, from imaginary evils, than
many a better-regulated mind might have done
from real ones.

CHAPTER XXII.

Had he seen thee when he swore
He would love but me alone ?
Thou wert absent,  sent before

To our kin in Sidmouth town.
When he saw thee, who art best,
Past compare, and loveliest,
He but judged thee as the rest."

Mes. Barrett Browning.

Again we return to Fairfield and meet with a
cheerful group of old friends. It is the afternoon
of a bright autumn day and the sun is looking
good-humouredly down upon the big pigeon-house
and surrounding apple-trees. Around the said
pigeon-house  a great, round building, with holes
in the top  innumerable pigeons are flying, and
making wonderful gyrations, as they pop in and
out of the little square doors belonging to their
private apartments. Beneath the said apple-trees,
great heaps of apples of every variety of size and
colour are lying ; good Somersetshire apples, making
a virtue of necessity, and patiently awaiting
the hour when they shall be ground and squeezed

into must, and yield up their very hearths blood ,
for vicious people to drink at some future day.
There are small, sour-looking jaseys, dressed in
the very green and yellow of jealousy, reposing
face to face with the little red-streaked bittersweet
 that compound of the prime elements of
life and human nature. Overpowering the rest,
both in size and hue, are all the red-faced, bloated
Tom Puts, that have been rescued from the innumerable
puddings and dumplings already consumed
by gormandizing human appetite; and,
disputing precedence with these fat, florid country
gentlemen, are the sleeker and genteeler John
Days, of smoother and somewhat paler cheek.
Peeping out at every niche are the cheerful-looking
red-streaks, bearing resemblance to the autumnal
sky now overshadowing them; and daintily resting
here and there, as if heartily ashamed of their
company, are a few stray pippins, golden as the
dawn, or ruddy as the sunset, heedlessly swept
away with the ruder crew. Despising equally the
society into which a hapless fate has cast them,
and wondering, as men and women often wonder
inter similar circumstances, how they got there,
are a few choice nonpareil, whose very name seems
an antidote to vulgarity ; and not far from these
delicate and aristocratic dames are the scarcely less

choice, but more hardy-looking russets,  gentlemen
of birth and some education, strong health
and long life,  but cast, like the nonpareil, by
adverse fate, into company of an inferior grade to
their own, and about shortly to be thrown into
the jaws of that devouring monster within the
pigeon-house, now sacrificing thousands of their
race to his greed.

And, glancing occasionally with pitiless eye upon
them, nay, actually looking on whilst the process
of destruction is proceeding, is the usually merciful
Jessie Burton. She even remarks upon their
condition, and takes no measures to alleviate it.

Uncle James, look heres she says, picking up
a reluctant nonpareil, " what will you say to this V

Shame ! shame ! " exclaims Uncle James, seizing
the unfortunate apple, and inflicting a wound
upon it with grinders even more cruel, because
slower in their work, than those of the apple-mill.
"You ought to see that not one good keeping-apple,
or famous eating-apple, is swept up with the
rests'

But we have such a plentiful crop this year.
Uncle, that we have all become carelessly

You will make a fortune by cider alone, girl.
What do you think, Joe ?"

Famous, Master, famous," said the old farm

g3

servant, who stood by ; " just step here and zee
the cider."

Here come the Captain, Nelson, and Pynsent,"
said Aunt Betsey, moving up the orchard towards
the gentlemen she announced, whilst Uncle James
and Jessie, with a blush on her face, entered the
pigeon-house.

The ground-floor of this building contained the
large cider-mill, now worked by some four lusty
men;  in those days machinery and horses had
not begun to take the bread out of the labourers'
mouths;  and round about the troughs into which
the cider was dropping from the reed above them,
several children were kneeling, doubtfully occupied.

'' You young thieves and vagabonds ! " cried
Uncle James in a thundering voice, I'U have
you all put into the stocks this very minute ; this
is the way our cider disappears, and we poor farmers
are out of pocket at the end of the year. It
Alas only ten minutes ago I routed you away from
the apples, and here you are, tippling and getting
tipsy in the cider-houses' And here commenced
a game that it was good to see.

The children, who were engaged in drawing the
sweet cider into their mouths through the tubes of
reeds, and who knew Uncle James very well, suddenly
threw down their singular drinking cups.

and ran to the other side of the mill. Uncle
James in violent assumed wrath pursued them :
and the urchins who enjoyed the fun, dodged him
round the mill, shrieking with laughter. Jessie
could not be an unconcerned spectator of the play,
but joined in it, by intercepting a child here and
there, and placing him within arm's reach of her
uncle, who, when he fancied he had just caught
him, would find Jessie ready to lend a hand on
the other side, and aid his escape. The men and
their windlasses were at a stand-still, for it was impossible
to help looking on ; whilst Uncle James
puffed round the mill, now butting forward, and
then suddenly turning short round upon some
child, who, bolder than the rest, had ventured close
behind him.

At last Uncle James fairly caught one of them,
and holding him firmly with one hand, sat down
leisurely on a corner of the machine, took out his
handkerchief, and began to wipe his face with the
other.

Now, you young vagabond," he said, stopping
at intervals to recover his breath, 'i've caught
you. I'm going to put you in prison and make an
example of you. You'll get no more apples and
cider ; they'll work you to death ; you shall go to
the tread-mill, not the cider-mill, you little villain.

Here's Miss Burton coming to hold you fast whilst
I bind you with my handkerchief. There she is,
do you see?"

The child looked through the large doors into
the orchard, and saw that Aunt Betsey was approaching,
followed by some gentlemen. He now
began to struggle for freedom in good earnest ; for
he, as well as the rest of his compeers, held Aunt
Betsey in extreme awe, as the grandest and most
particular lady in the universe. As he could not,
however, hold her in greater awe than did Uncle
James, he had only to struggle until she suddenly
walked into the mill, a step that Uncle James
little expected, and an honour rarely conferred.

 There, I'll catch you again by-and-by,' said
the good farmer, letting the boy go, and rising
with great perturbation; for Aunt Betsey must
have seen him in durance vile.

Sad little thieves. Ma'am, drinking all the
cider," he continued. " Ah, Cap' en, good day ; I
wish you'd been here to punish those young topers :
and the young Cap' en, too ; how d'ye do, Master
Nelson? I'm in two minds about shaking hands
with you : you've never been to see me since you
came back from Scotland, near two months ago.
New friends against old ones, eh ?"

Don't say that," cried the Captain ; '' Nelson

is a good boy in the main, and he has been waiting

for his lazy old father."

'No need to make excuses, Careen. Where

there's a will there's a way : and I dare say if I

had a pretty niece or two living with me, heM find

out the old barn often enough."

Here Uncle James winked at the Captain, and

then at Jessie, and the Captain nodded approvingly.

Fortunately for Jessie, she was at the other side of

the mill, whither Nelson walked, who had seen

the knowing wink, and seen it with less annoyance

than usual.

"I wonder whether you remember when we

used to drink cider through reeds, Jessie?" he
asked, as he took one up in his hand.

Very well," replied Jessie, 'but I dare say you
could not do it now."

There's a challenge, Nel," said Pynsent ; " let
us see whether you or I could perform best ;" and
he knelt down by the trough, and began to give
very hearty pulls at the reed, inhaling thereby the
sweet liquid. Nelson evidently thought the operation
undignified, and refrained from following his
example ; whilst Jessie, who had lost much of her
old freedom with Nelson, did not repeat the challenge,
contented for the moment with the fact
that he had again alluded to old times.

I remember that you were anxious to carry a
few hogsheads with you to Indians she said ; " did
you ever wish for them when there T

Indeed I did ; I should often have been thankful
for a can of old  Zummerzet ' on many a broiling
march. By the bye, Jessie, you have never yet
had the tiger-skins I brought you ; they are waiting
your acceptance at home now. I will bring
them down."

"I don't think Mr. Skinner would approve of
that," said Pynsent; "I know I should not, if I
were he."

Jessie laughed, and Nelson asked what Pynsent
meant.

Only that if Jessie is not already engaged to
Mr. Skinner  soon expected to write himself Sir
Jeremiah Skinner, Bart.,  she soon mil be : and a
capital match, I can tell you. I expect him to
cancel the mortgages, and free Fairfield. What
an invaluable brother-in-law ! As heir and head
of the family, I am decidedly for the match. I
shall  throw physic to the dogs,' and live on my
estate, and on my sister and brother Skinner. I
hope, Jessie, you will keep better cheese and fresher
biscuits."

Ah ! what a pattern Jessie is ! " broke in the
admiring Captain, addressing with his eyes Uncle

James,, and with his heart his son Nelson : "to
pay off another hundred this year again and injure
nobody '/

"You are unjust Captain Burford/ said Present
; " you know I helped : you never give meany
credit. I put the whole of that blessed ten-pound
Bank of England, that the strange gentleman
at the inn gave me, for curing his spasms  '

'alias giving him peppermint water and ammonia
for palpitation of the heart, caused hy eating
too much cheese after dinner," said Jessie.

"He called me a very clever young practitioner.
Miss Impudence ; and gave me his cardin
case of my ever practising in London."

"By the way, Nevy, how is old Molly?" inquired
Uncle James.

"Now, Uncle, that reminds me: if you ever
send for me on any of those old womens errands
again, I won't go. I rode two good miles out of
my way, through the wood : I saw Molly : very
ill she was, to all appearance. I left her a dose of
innocent medicine, that I took with me, that could
do no harm if it did no good. I went again with
more medicine. ' Dear heart ! Ism a sight betters
said she. I did not see much change myself. I
went a third time, when I thought she must have
taken all the medicine, and carried more in my

pocket ; together with some warm flannel garment
or other from Jessie, for her rheumatism. She
was gone out, so I went into the house, and waited
her return. I amused myself by looking at the
backs of three old books on the shelf. Took them
down, and lo ! behind them were my two bottles
of medicine, untouched, and the corks undrawn.
I sat down in righteous wrath with the bottles before
me. Molly soon came hobbling in, with an
spoonful of something. I was too indignant to
speak, but pointed to the bottles. lord bless
you. Master Pynsent!  I ax your pardon. Dr. Pynsent
 but I war told of a marten cure, and I just
tried it vurst. ' What was it ? I asked.  Pebble
broth. Doctor.' ' What the deuce is that T said I :
I could have sworn with all my heart. ' Pebble
broth is pebbles boiled in water; and then you
drinks the liquor.' I requested further information,
as calmly as I could. ' There be a famous spring
down a mile in the wood, as runs over thizen sort
o' pebbles : they be good for the rheum atiz, I was
told. I had some fetched, and boiled 'em. I felt
better almost directly. I tried 'em again, and in a
day or two was able to go and vetch 'em : and now I
be almost total cured.'  I'm glad to hear it,' said
I ;  then you don't want this ;' and I drew forth the
flannel article. I took up the bottles, and poked

them and the flannel into my pocket again, and
walked away, to where I had tied up my horse.
'Lord bless you, Doctors screamed Molly, 'if
you snowed how I suffers in my back and arms.
'Take plenty of pebble broths cried I, and rode
away."

"And the flannel jacket?" said Jessie, laughing
heartily.

I relented when I met her grandson, and sentit
back to her, recommending him to tell her to
dip it in the broth before she put it on. He grinned,
and said, 'She's almost crazed about that broth,
Sur.' And there end my visits to Molly."

Haw ! haw ! haw ! " shouts Uncle James, over
and above the laughter of the rest.

You may laugh. Squire, but I wil send you a
bill for the medicine and attendance," said Pynsent.

"Why you had your medicine again, Nevy;
and the receipt for the rheumatism may be worth
thousands to you. Haw ! haw ! haw ! I beg your
pardon. Ma'am, but I can't help it. Haw ! haw !
haw ! " and the old pigeon-house rang with laughter,
which communicated itself to the men, idling
over the windlasses.

Aunt Betsey looked complacently majestic, and
Uncle James was satisfied. His reverence of, and
fear of finding Aunt Betsey, never diminished ;

whilst her sufferance of him had visibly increased
since the Michelson defalcation.

"Here comes a lady-caller, Jessie said Present
; * let me hide behind the door tiU she
passes'

Who is it?' said Jessie, looking up the orchard.
" How like the walk is to Annans ! I declare,
if I did not know it was impossible, I should
think it was Annas

God forbid ! " muttered the Captain involuntarily.


Jessie went outside, and in a few moments was
flying rather than running up the orchard ; whilst
the lady took an equally sudden flight towards
Jessie, and they were immediately in each other's
arms.

It was, as we aU know, Anna, who had purposely
avoided announcing her arrival ; and the confusion
and various sensations she occasioned were indescribable.
Perhaps the only members of the party
who experienced unmixed pleasure at seeing her
were Jessie, and her Uncle and Aunt. Captain
Burford saw his new hopes blown away like soap-bubbles;
and Nelson, at a blow, felt his new
strength, that had taken him months to build up,
pulled down. All personal feeling was, however,
soon forgotten, in lamentations over Anna's sickly

appearance. Everybody perceived that there was
something wrong somewhere, although Jessie
alone knew where the blister drew. She looked
pale and thin, and the rich bloom that had flushed
her face when she left Fairfield, had faded into
a hectic hue, that alarmed Jessie more than she
liked to acknowledge, even to herself.

That night the sisters sat up late. Captain
Michelson was the subject of their conversation.
Anna assured Jessie that they had given each
other up, and that she had come home to brush
off all old recollections. The tearful glance belied
her words, but Jessie strengthened her in her resolve,
although she saw that pride, and not propriety,
had caused her to make it. Even to her
sister, Anna found it impossible to reveal the
depths of her heart ; but she knew that far down
in its recesses lay the image of Chatham Michelson,
covered and choked up by many unkind, bad
feelings  that ill weed, pride, superabundant 
yet never, she believed, to be quite rooted out.
Still, what she most longed for was an opportunity
of showing Chatham that she did not care for
him. Had his father now been at her feet, she
might have married him  even him  to prove to
the son that others would be proud to wear the
jewel he had cast off. Had some venerable earl or

duke only proposed for her, with what sumptuous
delight would she have received lira as a suitor !
not because she wished to be a countess or a
duchess  though she was ambitious of worldly-rank
 but to pierce Chatham s heart with the astounding
intelligence. She did not tell Jessie this :
she did not, at once, quite feel it herself  but a
circumstance that occurred during her holidays,
revealed the power of the tempter.

When she had been a few days at home, she
chanced to meet Lady Mansford, who at once invited
her to the park. She did not wish to go,
and pleaded illness. Her Ladyship would nurse
her. After frequent refusals, she consented to
spend a long day with her ; and went accordingly,
the following week. As if by some preconceived
plan, Lady Mansford talked of nothing but the
Michelson, and their mutual friends in Wales.
It was a natural subject of conversation between
them, still Anna fancied there was intention in
what appeared to be merely the heedless gossip of
a woman of the world. Underneath the gossip
there was, certainly, a desire to discover whether
Anna was at all interested in the Michelson,
which Annans careless manner entirely baffled.

You know'' said Lady Mansford, " that Mr.
Michelson and his son were said to have had a

quarrel; some say about the election, others say-about
Miss Erskine."

I was not aware of it/ replied Anna, scarcely
conscious that she was telling a falsehood.

"After the election, which, by the bye, was a
shameful affair and won by bribery, Mr. Michelson
went abroad, his usual place of refuge under annoyances.
This last season he returned to London :
I saw him frequently. He was looking remarkably
well, and younger than ever. It was about the
time of Captain Michelsons return from his Welsh
trip. Miss Erskine was in town  you remember
her  I think Captain Michelson always admired
her, but did not choose to let it be seen, lest he
should be supposed to be a money-hunter ; but his
father always wished him to propose for her."

'I thought," said Anna, "that when Captain
Michelson left Wales, he intended rejoining his
regiment, quartered in the north of England."

"I believe he did so; but hearing his father
was in England, he got extended leave, and came
to town. He was again thrown into Miss Erskine's
society, and I thought matters were progressing
fairly, when I was obliged to leave London."

"Ah, indeed!" said Anna, by way of saying
something, whilst a pang shot through her heart.

"You know Captain Michelson must have
money, in spite of his delicacy about it."

"I suppose so: his father is so poor ! said
Anna satirically.

His father, my dear ! he will probably marry
again, and certainly, during his life, will not do
much for his son.

Is Miss Erskine much admired ?'' asked Anna
carelessly. " She seemed good-natured, but I never
thought her pretty ; and the gentlemen used rather
to laugh at her.

Oh ! she is much thinner, and therefore better
looking. She is reckoned very handsome in town."

London society must have peculiar notions of
beauty," said Anna, who was beginning to feel her
courage, and therewith a portion of her pride and
satire, rise : ' she would never have struck me as
even good-looking."

Gentlemen's and ladies' beauties are always of
different kinds. I think men generally like rather
plump women. You knows George the Fourth's
'fat, fair, and forty'"

Lady Mansford came precisely under this class,
and Miss Erskine under the two first divisions of
it : whereas Anna was dark and slight.

Certainly there is no accounting for taste,"
said Anna. "Are you an admirer of Miss Erskine's
personal appearance, Sir Thomas?" she added, as
that gentleman entered the room. He had previously

greeted Anna with great kindness and remarks
on her altered looks.

"I? no ! replied he laughing: "who is? She
cannot help being like a very large wax doll, because
she was not the founder of her own good
looks. In your presence we have no room for the
admiration we sometimes bestow on doUs.' Anna
blushed and felt pleased, whilst Lady Mansford
bit her lips.

The arrow had struck home, nevertheless, whether
intentionally aimed or not. Anna left Mans-ford
Park that night, more than ever resolved to
forget Chatham Michelson, and buckled up in an
armour of pride and resentment, proof against the
incursions of all gentler feelings.

From that day she forced her spirits into their
old channel; walked, drove, and amused herself.
Every one but Jessie thought her gay as of old, but
she saw the occasional depression, and guessed the
cause. She, poor girl, saw also much more that it
was pain and grief for her to see : Anna encouraged
rather than repulsed the quiet, but too evident attentions
of Nelson. The pale face and delicate
appearance of Anna had made fresh impression on
him. He did not allow himself vanquished, but
again the reserve with Jessie and his father proved
that all was not right.

As Pynsent was much occupied, Nelson frequently
took Anna long drives for healths sake,
accompanied, it is true, by Aunt Betsey, and sometimes
by Jessie, but as dangerous for him as if he
had been alone with her. He was now constantly at
Fairfield, attracted by that irresistible charm that
Anna possessed, and that nobody could describe.
He walked with her  listened to her  gazed on
her  and finally gave himself up to his love for
her ; or, more properly, his passion : for the pure,
true love, that is the birth of friendship and esteem,
and mutual confidence, he had given in his
boyhood and youth. With Anna he had little
in common : yet he adored her, worshiped her.
He was reserved, deep-thinking, and far-seeing.
Naturally an admirer of simplicity and goodness
in all things : himself possessing somewhat of his
father's straightforwardness of character, and hating
duplicity: with strong affections for the few he could
esteem, and who knew and loved him ; but with
no art of acquiring general admiration, or spontaneous
tenderness, either from woman or man.
Those few who did know him intimately, especially
those who had been with him in his boyhood, and
witnessed the many generous actions and fine minute
traits of character, that he always tried to
conceal, conceived and preserved a strong attachment

for him : others considered him cold and
stern : some thought him even hard of heart, because
his strong sense of justice frequently overcame
his kinder feelings : few, if any, thought him
capable of the passion of love. But there it was
in his breast : burning, consuming him  as those
alone are, perhaps, consumed, who are outwardly
cold and reserved to the world at large. Hidden
fires that find no vent are the most dangerous.
Long the master of himself and of those who knew
him well, he was now entirely overcome. Beauty,
the subtle poison  the tempting serpent  had
done the work : and yet he fully understood
Annans true character. But her very faults became
beauties  there was in each something so
captivating. If she said a perverse thing, it was
said with a grace so peculiar, that it instantly became
a talisman wherewith to draw the resisting
will of others towards her : and if she said a pleasant
thing, that will, then unresisting, leapt forward
to meet her, as it were, before she could
finish uttering the words that were on her lips.

And so, with this attractive creature Nelson
was in love. Willingly or unwillingly, all about
them gradually perceived it. Even Dinah, in a
half-condoling, half-mirthful strain, began to talk
to Jessie about Mr. Nelson and Miss Anna. But

VOL. II. H

Jessie soon caused her to cease, by a very decided
disapprobation, both in face and manner, and by
sending her at once away on some errand that she
improvised for the occasion. Then Jessie went to
her chamber, and bolted the door. Shall we intrude
upon her privacy, and lay bare her feelings ?
Yes, we will, because such feelings are an honour
to her, and an example to others.

On her knees, by her bedside  lowly  lowly !
Not leaning against the bed, but with her head almost
touching the ground, she pours out her grief
to One who has listened to her unselfish prayers
for others, for years and years. She sobs  low,
smothered sobs. She cannot weep. " It is so
hard ! so hard ! Her sister  the child of her love !
She whom she has nursed, and fondled, and watched
and taught, ever since their dear mother gave her
to her charge on her death-bed ! To come between
her and her love  the one pure, hallowed love
of her whole life ! O God, this is too bitter a
draught for pure human nature ! Any one else !
oh, any one else ! If she could only have been so
tried by another ! She deserved chastisement ! but
oh ! not through her. And that sister did not
love him ; she did not care for him ; she could not
understand him, and never, never make him happy,
or he her. Oh, pain ! oh, agony !" Still the low

sob, as if her heart would break. Arouse thyself,
poor Jessie ! These pains must be borne and overcome.
She does arouse herself. She does summon
to her aid the one true safeguard  she prays.
She prays to be supported and taught to act aright
through this great anguish, whatever may be its
end : she prays to be preserved from jealousy and
evil thoughts of her sister ; she prays to be enabled
to overcome an affection that has grown with her
growth, and strengthened with her strength. Long
and earnestly she prays, and the sobs soften into
tears, like clouds into dew. She arises, strengthened
and refreshed, as all those arise who ask
aright. She goes towards the open window, and
lets the fresh autumn breeze play upon her falling
tears, and silently, gradually, dry them up. A pair
of white pigeons fly upon the window-sill ; unconsciously
she strokes them, and gathers a rose-bud
that is thrusting its pretty lips towards her, as if
to offer kisses and consolation. She looks across
into her garden, and the perfumes of the flowers,
the humming of the bees around their hives, the
soft cooing of the pigeons, seem to steal through
the vacant senses into the pre-occupied soul, and
insensibly soothe and calm. " So many blessings,"
she murmurs, " and yet ungrateful and discontented
!" A little scratching and whining at the door

H 2

she pays no attention ; louder and more imperative
it grows. She opens the door. In bursts a
beautiful Scotch terrier, that Nelson brought from
Scotland and had given to her : it is of the real
long-haired, bright, intelligent, faithful Ayrshire
breed, and has the winning, attractive ways of its
race, jumping, biting, gambolling, pulling at her
gown  it will be, and at last is, attended to.

Poor Sandy !" ejaculates Jessie, taking him up
in her arms and again letting a tear roll down her
cheek. With quick perception, and a feeling beyond
instinct, Sandy licks off the tear, and rubs
his long, soft hair against her face, and fixes his
bright black eyes upon her, and asks, as plainly as
dog can ask, what is the matter. She strokes his
pretty head and smiles. He is more satisfied. She
puts him down on the high window-seat upon which
she has been leaning, and with one hand on his
back, again looks across into her garden. " Tap,
tap,, at the door. " Wanted, Miss, pleases' says
Dinah without, " directly, please Misses' " I will
comes says Jessie, and goes to her ewer, pours
out water, and washes her face. It is no good
for her to attempt to efface the traces of tears,
for there they are. With one more silent prayer
for help, she leaves her room, and walks slowly
down the passage, little Sandy pulling at her gown.

Just entering the front door are Nelson and Anna
who have been walking through the corn-fields.
She hurries past them, hiding her face, but saying,
as cheerily as she can 

You must have your jelly now, Anna,' and
hastening into her pantry, she prepares a glass of
clear, bright jelly, for that rival sister, who little
thinks what sad tears dim her eyes as she does so.

CHAPTER XXIII.

But if that virtue be of so great might
Which from just verdict will for nothing start,
But, to preserve inviolated right.
Oft spills the principal to save the part ;
So much more then is that of power and art
That seeks to save the subject of her skill,
Yet never doth from doom of right depart ;
As it is greater praise to save than spill,
And better to reform than to cut .off the Ul."  Spenser.

Just at the close of Annans holidays when she
was thinking of returning into Wales, and dreading
the prospect of beginning to teach again, Nelson
proposed for her, and was accepted : yes, accepted
! We will take a slight glance into their
hearts. Nelson was madly in love, and he did what
almost every one so desperately smitten would have
done,  made an effort to win the girl who had
taken hold of his affections. He looked upon his
early attachment to Jessie as a brother's love for
his sister ; so different was it from his present frame
of mind. He took it for granted that she entertained

similar feelings for him or else he took nothing
for granted, and did not care to think about
it. He knew that no shadow of an engagement
had ever existed between them save in his father s
will and imagination; and that since his return
from India, nothing but the mere commonplaces
of friendship had passed between them. In his
mind, therefore, the only drawback was his father.
He resolved to try his fate with Anna first, and to
tell him only if he succeeded. Having succeeded,
nothing  not even his father's anger  seemed of
moment to him. The only thing he tried to feel
careless about was meeting Jessie. He did not
know why it was, but he wished her away. This
was the reigning feeling in his mind regarding her :
alas, poor Jessie !

And Anna ? Hers was a troubled heart. She
had resolved to accept Nelson, if he proposed for
her, even before he did so. She consulted no one
trusted no one  not even Jessie, because she
knew that she would condemn her. She wished to
prove to Chatham that she could marry well  an
officer, like himself, with equally good expectations,
probably better ; moreover she was anxious
to marry. Now Chatham had given her up, she
had no wish to remain at Plas Ayron ; she began
to grow tired of her position of governess ; she

liked the prospect of going to India  gorgeous,
warm India, where she should be as a queen, instead
of in the doubtful position she now held.
She would forget Chatham,  was forgetting, despising,
hating him almost. She esteemed and admired
Nelson, and knew, despite his reserve even
with her, that he worshiped her very shadow.
She liked such worship from such a proud, shy
man, almost as much as the open admiration of
the gay, light Chatham ; she tried to think she
liked it better. She thought only of herself. She
forgot whether she was acting rightly by Nelson,
or others who belonged to her. To do her justice,
she did not know that Jessie loved Nelson. She
was a child when he went away, and thought of
the old story of the intended marriage as a mere
jest. Since his return, whenever he had been in
her society, it was evident that he had always been
devoted to her ; had spoken little to Jessie, and
had left home when she went into Wales. She
knew that his father liked Jessie best, and wished
Nelson to marry her ; but as that was impossible,
and as there was no apparent love on Jessie's side,
she saw no reason why she should not accept him.
She would, in short, have done anything to feed
her pride, and to annoy Chatham Michelson. She
was quite resolved to keep her promise of returning

into Wales, and, although she dreaded the disclosure
of her engagement, had a certain undefined
wish to know what the Countess would think of it,
and to strive to discover whether Chatham were
apprised of it. She also anxiously desired to prove
to the Lady Georgiana that she could marry well,
although her nephew and herself might think her
beneath them. With all these improper and conflicting
feelings in her mind, Anna accepted Nelson,
and tried to make him believe, without directly
telling him so, that she did so from affection.


The intelligence was variously received by the
friends of the parties. Captain Burford was so
much enraged, that he declared he would never
speak to his son again, never enter Fairfield whilst
Anna was there, never countenance such a marriage,
leave all his fortune to Jessie, who was the
rightful wife for his son, and, finally, go away from
home until it was all over. Although his wrath
did not lead him to these extremes, it cooled into
a settled displeasure. He avoided Nelson, scarcely
spoke to him when they met, and when he did
speak, it was with an effort to suppress a burst of
passion ; did not enter Fairfield, but wrote a long
letter of complaints and condolence to Jessie ; and
set his face against the match. Pynsent was

H 3

almost as much annoyed as the Captain, and spoke
so severely to Anna about her vanity in marrying
for the mere sake of marrying  her heartlessness
in accepting a man she did not care for, and her
thoughtlessness of others who might care for him,
that he roused every bad passion of her breast, and
made her resolve to go through with the affair, if
only to prove to Pynsent that he should not domineer
over her.

Aunt Betsey and Uncle James looked rather
favourably upon the match, and did not enter minutely
into all its ins and outs. A wedding to
them was a wedding, and they were, bachelor and
old-maid-like, very glad to canvass all its details.
The only one of the party who did not know what
course to pursue was Jessie. Her heart was sore,
lout she struggled hard to prevent the wound from
being known. As the roots of her affection had
been planted years and years before, so they had
penetrated deeply and intricately into every crevice
of her nature, and it would have been impossible
for her to tear them out, without throwing down
the structure into which they had so curiously entwined
themselves. All she could do was to hide
them ; to heap up earth upon them, and keep them
underground; cut off all the fresh shoots, and let
them creep on unknown to any one but herself.

There they were, and there they must remain until
she died and they died with her. Outwardly she
was calm and composed ; less cheerful , perhaps, to
a loving, anxious eye, like Pynsents, but unchanged
towards Nelson and Anna. The one was too engrossed
with his own selfish happiness to think
much of anything else; the other was too much
taken up with her own various plans, hopes, fears,
and tumults, to cast a look upon Jessie.

Often did Jessie endeavour to speak to Anna
upon this subject, so near her heart, and to court
her to pour out her real feelings to her, but she
could not do it ; the words faded on her lips. She
knew that Anna did not love Nelson, and she
longed to entreat her to pause before she committed
the crime of marrying him, and dragged both herself
and him into misery; but the fear of being
selfish, and of seeming to advise for her own ends,
kept her silent; so she had to suffer alone, like
thousands of others, and to wear a cheerful face
whilst she had a hidden grief that might be softened,
but never quite washed away, even by her
tears.

Anna refused to come to any decision respecting
the period of her marriage, until she had completed
her three months in Wales. Nelson wished her
not to return, but on this point she was decided.

Wilful in thought, word, and deed, no one but
such a blind lover as he was, could have failed to
perceive that a secret, scarcely acknowledged to
herself, lay beneath her wilfulness. She had still
a forlorn hope of meeting, or hearing of Chatham
once more before she became another's ; and therefore,
after two months of home, and after solving,
partly advisedly and partly unadvisedly, the seeds
of much mischief, she again left Fairfield, with renewed
health, and vastly improved though still
fluctuating spirits.

Soon after she was gone. Nelson went to London,
and Captain Burford once more made his appearance
in his own old haunts. He found Jessie
alone, and soon began the subject of their mutual
grievances.

I tell you what it is, my dear girl, I never will
countenance that match," he began, as he seated
himself by her side. 'As guardian, I can prevent
her marrying until she is one and-twenty, and, by
Jove, I will''

My dear Sir," said Jessie, " you surely vould
not use forcible measures. Nelson is quite old
enough to know his own mind, and Anna  "

"Doesn't know her mind at all. I am not
quite a fool, Jessie. She don't care a fraction for
Nelson. I hope she '11 make him wretched, I do,

and that they may lead a cat-and-dog life. But
they shall not marry. I can prevent it for sometime
yet until Nelson is obliged to sail for India,
and Miss Anna will never bear a ten years engagement.
If I can only get my co-guardians to agree
to my plans, and make them see things in their
right light, the dickens a bit shall they ever be
made one ! Fore and aft not more inseparably
divided."

You do not mean what you say," said Jessie,
forcing down a strange hope that she knew ought
not to arise ; " it must all take its course."

I told Nelson that, as guardian, Anna was not
entitled to her thousand pounds fortune till she
was of age, and should not have it then if I could
help it ; and the impertinent scoundrel got into a
passion, and said if it were twenty thousand he
would not take a penny of it from her brothers
and  He had the grace to stop before he said
 sister,' but I told him, pretty sharply, that you
wanted to be under no obligations to him."

The colour came into Jessie's cheeks as she said,
I wish, for my sake, you would not allude to me ;
it can do no good, and is so very, very painful tome."


My darling ! " cried the good Captain, putting
his arm round her waist, and laying her head on

his shoulder, and patting her cheek ; " my pet ! I
would not pain you for all the gold of Ophir. I
will try to hold my tongue, but you know 1 had
set my heart upon you for my daughter-in-law,
you are so well suited to Nelson ; and I promised
your father  ass ! fool 1 blind, senseless oaf ! I
vow he is no son of mines

Jessie put her hand upon the Captain's mouth,
and threw her arms round his neck. '' You must
not'' she said, " you must not. We cannot command
om* affections. It is better as it is. Look
at me : I am not beautiful, or clever, or in anyway
accomplished. I am not intended by nature
to win love, only friendship, and that Nelson has
given me. He could not  who could ?  resist the
fascinations of Anna. Besides, I must remain at
Fairfield. The old place must not go to ruin.
Pynsent has his profession ; Peter is away on the
seas; Charles is in London, and will soon be in
Italy: what would become of Fairfield without me ?
and Aunt Betsey, and Uncle James, and you yourself,
Captain Burford ? You could not have a rubber,
or anything, if I were gone. I am very vain,
but you know it is all quite true."

True ! ay  I know that. Blind fool ! You
are everything to everybody but to him, and he
will know it when it is too late."

But promise me. Captain Burford, that you
will put none of your threats into execution. It
makes me unhappy to hear you speak so. I shall
not sleep tonight if you do not revoke your words,
and I must be up early tomorrow's

I 11 be  I beg your pardon, my darling, I
was on the verge of a deuced bad oath ; but what
IVe said I 11 stand to. If Nelson marries Anna

they may go to India, or the worlds end, if they

will : I never want to see either of them against

Here Jessicass tears, long on the verge of being
shed, fell in good earnest, and at the sight of them
the Captain got "up and fussed about the room,
wished and showed, stamped his foot, but finally
returned to put his arms round Jessie.

IU marry you myself, and come and live here,
ini be flogged if I donH, said he.

' That is a capital plans said Jessie, smiling
through her tears ; " and then you will forgive
Nelson'

Yes, then, and not till then : so the sooner you
fix the day the better."

I am ready now, directly ; we will get Aunty
to be bridesmaid, and Uncle James to give me
away."

You are a dear, good angel of a girl, but I am
not an angel of a man. I was never made to break

my word by mortal yet. Old Careen Steadfast,
the men used to call me; and now, by my own
son ! Job himself would never have put up with it."

' My dear Captain Burford ! we were babies."

But I was not a baby : the deuce is in it if I
was; and your father wasn't a baby; and you
didnH grow up babies ; and Nel was no baby when
he went to India first, and told me that he knew
he should never see anybody he liked as well as
you  There, I will hold my tongue ; now don't
cry : I cannot bear that. A woman's tears always
floored me. 'Twill be all the same a hundred
years hence, since there are no married people in
heaven."

Then it is better to die single," said Jessie
archly.

I believe it ; for then, at least, you have no
children to bother you. You and Pynsent are the
only children I ever saw who never gave anybody
any trouble ; except, indeed, that wonderful Tiny,
who was staying here last year ; but she was an
old woman in disguise,  a youthful figure-head
upon an old craft."

" She is quite well," said Jessie, glad to turn
the conversation, " and is already wondering what
she can do to make herself useful, and earn her
livelihood."

Save US ! she scarcely ten year old ! '
"And I heard from Charles today, who has
good hopes of getting to Italy. I will read you
what he says about it. ' Uncle Timothy is for my
at once setting off on my travels, and of course
offers to pay my expenses -, but this I could never
allow. Perhaps, in the course of another year, we
may be able to raise the money amongst us, as
Uncle James kindly offered to assist. I am working
hard; as hard, at least, as my uncle will let
me, who fears for my health. I am, however, very
strong, and I think less lame than I was, though I
fear I shall never quite get rid of the slight hip I
still have. Ladies have " Grecian bends ;" why nota
Grecian limp ? Tiny is very well. Her drawing
is wonderful, and she is wonderful. Her mother's
health is bad, and she waits upon her, teaches their
few scholars, works, and fags like a woman. Her
countenance grows more spiritual every day. She
seldom comes here, but I go to see her as often as
I can. I love the child, and get more and more
interested in her every day. She seems to have
an innate perception of the beautiful in art that is
quite incomprehensible. One of my greatest anxieties,
if I leave London, will be this child. Uncle
Timothy is as good to her as he can be ; but he
sees her seldom, and I think his housekeeper dislikes

her and her mother. She often throws out
strange hints to me about them, but I do not
choose to take them, for I do not much like the
woman. She is a fawning, cringing thing, without
, I fear, any one's interest but her own at
heart, though she professes to be devoted to my
uncle. He is quite well, and overwhelmed with
engagements, professional and philanthropic. I
will write more about Italy soon. Meanwhile will
you try to find out what can be done in the money
way ? Very little would suffice me ; for truly painting
is meat, drink, and sleep to me.''

"DoesnH he say anything about Nelson and
Anna'' asked the Captain , as Jessie ceased reading.


Not much ; at the beginning of the letter  a
few words," replied Jessie with hesitation.

I should like to see them. There can be no
secrets about them."

The Captain twisted the letter out of Jessie's
hands.

May I read it ? Yes ? I like to know Charles's
opinions, because he is sensible, and speaks without
reserve. I wish all young men would get rid
of that cursed reserve : it is the bane of all social
intercourse. Let me see ; here it is :   I do not
like the marriage ; they are not suited in habits or

disposition  Right, my boy right !  ' And they
will both repent it before they have been married
a year  I hope with all my soul they will, Charlie.
 ' No two should marry who have not some
impulses in commons  Ho ! ho ! you get beyond
me now. What does he mean, Jessie ? I believe
they will be impelled to pull one another's eyes
out before long. Fancy that babe, Charles, knowing
anything about impulses !   Love is too holy
and heavenly a plant to be forced into all soils,
and trained into all forms.   That will do, thank
you, Jessie. I am afraid I must give up Charles's
sense ; I believe the boy must be smitten himself.
Tiny is too young, or I should be expecting  love
in a garret soon; and oh ! the impulses V

The arrival of Uncle James, and Jessie s glad
proposal of a rubber, put an end to the conversation;
and the Captain was soon heard scolding
Jessie in right good earnest.

What ! three honours in your own hand, and
not play them ; and I the fourth, and we actually
lose the trick ! Four by honours, and lose the odd
trick ! Ton my word, Jessie, if you do not play
better, 111 teach Dinah. It is more than enough
to provoke a saint. Well change partners. I
can't stand this'' and down went the pack of
cards in a fury on the table, and up rose the Captain
in wrath.

Haw! haw! haw !" roared Uncle Jaraes. " Do
you think I am going to take Jessie and hold four
by honours, and lose the trick ? Not as long as I
am sure of one honour,  the honour of playing
with you, Maam; and he made a bow to Aunt
Betsey, which she returned with dignity.

Captain Burford, do sit down and try me once
more, only this once. I assure you I will do
betters'

So you have said every other evening for these
twelve years. You will never play whist ; nobody
can who husband their trumps."

' Here is a letter for you, Jessie," said Pynsent,
who was just returned from the town ; " it is an
Indian post-mark, and there is ever so much money
to pay."

It is from Louisa Colville ; oh ! I am so glad.
Wait and hear, Pynsent ; pray do not run away."
There is a messenger waiting for me, who says
some poor woman is dying about six miles off, and
I must order my horse at once."

Oh ! shell wait a few minutes, I dare say,
Pyn," said Uncle James ; " and you know she
done pay."

"I wish anybody paid," said Pynsent; "it is
all work and no pay in the country ; I am sick of
it."

Louisa Colville desires her kind regards to you
Pynsent, and hopes your chess-men are still unbroken
; and her love to you, Uncle James. Does
not your heart beat ?''

I hope so, my dear. There ! I vow Pynsent
is off. I never saw any one like that boy ; morning,
noon, and night he is at it, pay or no pay.
And what does pretty Miss Colville say of India?"
She does not like it much, and wishes herself
at Fairfield. She fears there is little chance of her
returning to England for some years, and complains
of the artificial position of women in India."
Pshaw ! " said Captain Burford. " They all like
it. That is the first bit of affectation I ever remember
Miss Colville guilty of. There is not a
woman in the world who does not glory in having
crowds of men at her feet; and in India, where
the dear creatures are in the minority, they are
happy, if they are happy anywhere."

Oh, listen. Captain Burford ! " interrupted Jessie
: " Louisa has actually met Peter."
Hurrah ! " shouts the Captain.
And she says he is quite well, and so like Anna
that she should have known him anywhere. Her
papa and mamma liked him so much that they insisted
on his staying with them as long as he was
ashore, and he has promised to pay them another

visit. Poor Peter ! Just hear what she says : 
 We did nothing but talk of you from morning
till night. He was quite as willing a listener as I
was a narrator ; and we canvassed Fairfield and all
belonging to it as industriously as your Uncle
James canvassed at the election for Mr. Michelson
; but we were not quite so unfortunate as he
was when he and your brother had the quarrel
about voting. We all think Peter so handsome.
He is a regular sailor and very much beloved by
his messmates. Of course you know that he is
second lieutenant and showed me a purse full of
prize money that he had gained in taking a pirate-ship
; but did not tell me of the compliment paid
him on the occasion by the commander. The said
prize money was all spent whilst he was on shore,
partly in presents to send home and partly in presents
to those about him. He strikes me as being
as much like Anna in his ways as in his person.
He talks of writing to you soon, and I had almost
prevailed on him to begin a letter, and actually put
out writing materials, when he suddenly whirled
me round like a teetotum and seated me at the
piano, begging my pardon in the oddest way, and
assuring me that as I had been so long at Fairfield
he looked upon me as belonging to him. Mamma,
who is generally very particular, laughed outright,

and asked me if his brothers were like him. We
both exclaimed at the very idea, assuring her that
the son and heir, Dr. Pynsent Burton, was the very
pink of propriety, solidity, and crossness, and
would much rather twirl a pill than a young lady
in a waltz. The latter simile was Peter's, who,
however, to mollify it, declared that his brother was
the ' best fellow in the world,' when he knew him,
and he supposed he must now be super-superlative,
better than the best. Oh, how we talked of you
all, and longed to be together at dear, pleasant,
cheerful, old-fashioned, hospitable Fairfield ! With
the exception of the one day on which I met my
parents, I still look upon the days I passed at
Fairfield as the happiest of my life. I hate India :
I hate the heat, the natives, the palanquins, the
mosquitoes, the finery, the helplessness, the uselessness,
the  shall I say it ?  the officers and all.
I hope my dear Papa will not read this, for I
adore him; and I love you, my dear Jessie, as
much, or better, than ever ; and Mamma loves you
by report; as everybody ' ''

Here Jessie paused.

"Go on, go on!" cried the Captain. "She is
right ; God bless her !   as everybody who knows
you, fools excepted, must.' I know what the end
of it is."

This is quite a white day," said Jessie. " Such

comfortable letters from Charles and Louisa and
all of ns well, and, I hope, likely to do well. How
thankful we ought to be V'

Ho ! ho ! Mr. Pynsent,' said Uncle James,
so you have been listening to the letter, after all.
Pretty Miss Colville touches you up a little, but I
think she has a hankering for you at bottoms'

"I only returned whilst John is saddling my
horse," said Pynsent slightly embarrassed.

"You shall read all the letter when you come
back,' said Jessie, as Pynsent again left the room.

"Pynsent is a rum chap," said Uncle James.
Anybody else would have fallen in love with that
pretty girl, and they in the same house for two or
three months ; but he was as cool as a consumer."

He is a sensible yoimg man," said Aunt Betsey,

lith a glance that dumb-foundered Uncle James.

Jessie retired to rest that night with a heart so

sill of thankfulness that she almost forgot her one

great sorrow, and very nearly succeeded in getting

rid of the wicked demon of jealousy that she had

been for some time combating. She wrote a long,

affectionate letter to Anna, in which she uttered

prayers for her happiness, joined with entreaties

to her to look well into her own heart before she

took the decisive step. She felt happier after she

had said this, because she knew it was a duty, and

she had tried to do it without selfishness.

CHAPTER XXIV.

C'est le premier pas qui route."

Anna arrived once more safely at Plas Ayron, and
was kindly welcomed by all. From the first day
of her return she had the disclosure of her intended
marriage on her lips, but had not courage to bring
it out. She could not even hint at her intending
to leave her situation in a few months, but went
on teaching as usual, and listening for news of
Chatham. She received and replied to letters from
Nelson almost daily, and, in various ways, as apt
rent to the reader as the writer, went on acting
succession of unspoken lies. Once, and once onl)
she heard Chatham s name mentioned by the Countess,
who expressed her astonishment at not hearing
from him, and her intention of writing to
him.

About two months after Annans return from her
holidays, to the surprise of every one, he made his
appearance. Had he dropped from the clouds, instead
of walking into the drawing-room, looking

VOL. IT. 1

frost-bitten, one winter night, they could not have
been more astonished. Anna did not faint, but
she suppressed a scream, and turned very pale.
As at their parting, so at their meeting,  a bow, a
slight curtsey, and a chilly touch of the fingers
was all the outward display of the inward feelings
which were at the moment stirring the blood tumultuously
around their hearts.

Chatham looked ill. There was an anxiety
about his usually open, smiling face, that was painful
to see. His spirits seemed depressed, and he
tried in vain to rally them. He was as much
changed as Anna. Towards her he was cold and
distant, but her haughtiness and pride turned to
timid and sorrowful shyness towards him. She felt
tears frequently swelling in her eyes, and if she did
meet his glance, hers sank before it, like that of a
culprit before a judge. She resolved to avoid him,
but her self-restraint and resolution were not sufficient
for the task. She found herself in his presence
whenever and wherever she could manage
it without exciting observation. She never permitted
herself to be a moment alone with him,
but in the presence of others she thought herself
secure.

He professed to have run down a few days to
see his friends and to spend his Christmas with

them. One week or thereabouts, was the extent
of his visit : he must return soon after Christmas-day.


On Christmas Eve the children had a little party
and Anna exerted herself to amuse them. She
played and sang for them, danced with them, and
helped them in their games. Chatham also joined
in their sports, and thus he and Anna were thrown
rather more together than they had been before.
She looked very well. She had dressed herself
with care, and, forgetful of Nelson, sought only
how she could charm Captain Michelson into his
old admiration of her beauty. She knew that
Chatham was looking at her ; she felt that his rigid
mouth relaxed into a smile when they were near
each other ; she ventured to glance at him. Their
eyes met, and who could withstand the soft yet
glowing fire of her bright orbs ? Their beams too
surely penetrated wheresoever they were directed.
Anna knew that they had not been now pointed
in vain.

That night the bow was less stiff", the mannerless
cold. He lighted her candle for her when she
went upstairs, and she inwardly compared it to the
rekindling of the flame within. When she was in
her bedroom, she sat down  it was twelve o clock
and wrote two letters ; one to Nelson, the other

to Jessie. They were long eager hasty letters
written in extreme excitement and turbulence of
mind, to judge from the varying expression of her
countenance  the tears in her eyes  the trembling
of her hand  the frequent erasures, and still more
frequent interlineations. She sealed her letters
without reading them over, and as if afraid of an
inclination to unsay what she had written, crept
downstairs to put them into the open post-bag,
ready for the early morning mail. She felt like a
culprit as she silently glided into the library and
went to the side table Where the bag had been left,
at her request, for the reception of her letters.
She had begged Lady Georgiana so to. leave it,
hinting her intention of writing at daybreak the
following morning. Her fingers trembled as she
locked the bag, and she sank, for a moment, into
the chair by the writing-table, as if unable to move.
The letter-bag was on the table; she folded her
arms across it, and leant her head upon them.
Tears fell, accompanied by a slight hysterical sob.
Her candle burnt out. She had written so long
that she was unconscious of its hadng been flickering
in the socket when she came downstairs. There
was still the light of the fire in the dim library,
that cast a faint red glow upon her white dress,
and made her recumbent figure the prominent feature

of the room. A marble bust stood on a pedestal
close by, and was also made clear by the firelight.
The calm, severe head of some old poet or
divine seemed to be looking coldly down upon her,
as if reproaching her for her self-abasement.

Hush ! there is a sound  a movement at the
other end of the room. Anna does not hear it,
but continues to sob faintly over the closed letters.
In the shadow, behind the large fire-screen, out of
the easy-chair, a figure rises softly. It may be a
dark ghost, it moves so breathlessly across the
room. It draws near  nearer. A white hand is
held, trembling like the sword that hung by a
single hair over the head of Damocles of old, above
the head of the mourning girl. It touches the
soft, shining hair; another head bends low, and
parted lips almost kiss the glossy braids, as they
breathe the one word " Annabella !"

"With a faint cry she throws back her head, and
face to face she finds herself with her dearly-loved
Chatham. Not knowing what she does  fancying
herself in a dream or a fever  she sinks from the
chair upon her knees, and, smothering a scream,
covers her face with her hands. Prostrate at the
feet of her lover, she knows not how, nor why, the
haughty, imperious Anna kneels for a moment.
Tenderly he strives to raise her, but the weakness

is past ; Anna is again the empress. She rises majestically,
and is about to hasten out of the room,
but with a firm grasp Chatham retains her, and
draws her towards the fire. Gently he seats her
in the chair he has vacated, and flinging himself,
in his turn, at her feet  not as a worshiper, or
silly suitor, but in order that he may gaze into her
eyes  and clasping both her hands, exclaims 

Tell me, Anna Burton, I conjure you, are you
going to marry Nelson Burford ?"

The mesmeric fixing of the eyes, and the pressure
of the burning hands, commanded truth, and
it came.

No  never," murmured Anna, with lips quivering
and cheeks pale as death.

Are you engaged to him ? "

Yes  no  no."

"Yes or no?"

No."

Have you been engaged to him ?"

"Yes."

Do you love him ?"

"No."

Why, then, were you engaged to him ?"

I do not know  I cannot tell."

Did you ever love me ?  say  speak  my life
depends on it. My heart will burst."

Yes."

Say the word again  Do you love me still ?"

Yes: God knows it."

Will you marry me  share my miserable, deserted
fate?"

I will."

If my father renounces me, my friends give
me up, and I am poor?"

I wil."

"You  the ambitious  the  the?"

ec T }i

"You are mine?"

"Wholly."

"Will you  will you  go with me  from this
very house  at once: tomorrow  marry me directly
put an end to all this agony, and be mine without
consulting friends or relations, as I am yours?"

"Elope, do you mean?"

Yes ; or return to Fairfield and marry from
thence."

I cannot do that."

"Which?"

Return home''

Then you will fly with me ?"

Yes."

Thank you ! God bless you ! I can breathe
again. My heart ! my heart ! Happiness is worse

than misery to bear. You do not know what I
have suffered since I heard that you and Burford
were engaged.

How did you know it?

Lady Mansford wrote to my father, and told
him so.

' Lady Mansford also told me that you were engaged,
or nearly so, to Miss Erskine."

It was false : I would not have married her
for all the gold of India."

Why, then, did you go to London?"

My father sent for me. He had just arrived
in England, and meeting Miss Erskine again, still
Miss Erskine, resolved that I should marry her.
He had heard of my visit into Wales. He told
me so, and said he understood that I had paid it
on your account. I could not deny it, but assured
him that you had refused me. He said that was
equivalent to my disobeying him. He got into a
furious passion, and vowed that if I did not, at
once, propose for Miss Erskine, he would withdraw
my allowance, and disinherit me. I knew that he
had long only wanted an excuse for doing so, and
I told him so ; declaring that I never would marry
Miss Erskine. He ordered me from his house, and
I went back to my regiment. I wrote a half penitential,
half reproachful letter to him, but received

no answer. I find lie has kept this word, and I
have nothing but my pay. It is starvation ; still
many live upon it, and we can economize. Anything
is possible with you  nothing without your's

What will the Countess and Lady Georgiana
say ? I dread them more than any one else, except
my sister."

' Why your sister?"

Because she will not approve of my conduct to
Nelson  or  or  anything else."

When did you break off your engagement with
Nelson?"

This very day ; the letter is in that post-bag."

Ah ! for my sake ? But I would not have them
think us dishonourable,"

The letter was written before I knew that you
thought of me still."

They must all be made to understand this. I
heard you tell my aunt that you had a letter to
put into the bag, and resolved to remain here, if
the whole night, until you came."

I am sure I was born to make everybody belonging
to me miserable, Captain Michelson : if I
am doing wrong for your sake, you must not let
the evil consequences fall on me. I do not know
what is right and what is wrong in this case ; it is
all confused in my mind, and I scarcely wish to

I 3

unravel it. Yet I know it was wrong to promise
to be the wife of another, when I loved you. I
know it is wrong to break an engagement, though
it would be worse, far worse, to marry with the
hand one man whilst my heart is in your keeping.
I know it is wrong to let you marry me, under aU
the circumstances of your position. And Jessie,
Pynsent, what will they think ? and Captain Burford,
and Uncle Timothy, and and  Nelson? I
can never see them again, never ! Oh, Captain
Michelson ! it must not, it cannot be.'

Anna covered her face with her hands, and burst
into a passionate flood of tears. Chatham prayed,
entreated her for his sake to be calm.

Anna, dearest Anna, shall I not be more than
brother, sister, friend to you ? I want no friends
but you. Cannot you renounce your home, your
friends, for one who will love you till death, and
who has so very few to love him, that he will find
in you alone his only hope and treasure ? Think
of what you give, not of what you lose. Is it not
better to save one from despair or death, than to
share the happiness of many ? Do not weep so,
but think of me  of me''

I do, I do ; but Jessie  you cannot tell what
her love is ; what it would be to lose it, and to forfeit
her esteem."

Do you not think Arabella that you maybe
doing her a service by renouncing Nelson? Did
you never suspect that she loved him ? Did you
never notice the sad, pained look, that came from
her very heart to her truthful eyes, when he devoted
himself to you ? My own fears, I suppose,
made me more conscious of such things than you
were."

Can this be ? Am I such a selfish wretch
that I could even take her hopes away, without
pain to myself on her account ? And can you love
one who, to gratify her own momentary feelings,
has done such things ? Oh ! I am not deserving
of the love of such a heart as yours."

Anna, was it not on my account ? was it not
my fault? Do not upbraid yourself thus. All
this excitement will make you ill. We will talk
no more now; you must go to rest, and try to
compose yourself, looking only on our future happiness,
and leaving other matters to take care of
themselves. When that letter has reached its destination,
and the worst is known at home, we will
meet again. Three days from this time, if you
will remain in the school-room, from some excuse
or other I will watch my opportunity, and join
you there. You must think over the possibilities
yourself meanwhile, and whatever you wish, I

will adhere to. If you have the courage to allow
me to declare our intentions to my grandmother,
I will do so. If you prefer facing your friends at
home, I will follow you there; or if you will
leave this place with me, four and twenty hours
shall unite us, without the intervention of friends.
Your will is mine. And now, my own dear Anna,
be as happy as I am; sleep, and dream gentle
dreams of love and joy.

As Chatham spoke, he tried to throw a tone of
hope and mirth into his words, but he performed
the operation ill. That letter in the post-bag
weighed upon his mind. He esteemed Nelson,
they were friends; and his kind, generous heart
shrank at the pain about to be inflicted on him.
He felt, also, that the whole affair was false and
hollow, and might even be reckoned dishonor
able; but he looked at his beautiful Anna, and
smothered the scruples that could separate for a
moment such a fair creature from him. He lighted
one of the library candles, and again entreated
Anna to be calm, and to retire. The timepiece
struck three. Asia started in affright, and took
the proffered candle. Again she put it down.

Are we doing very wrong ? am I very wicked?"
she said, with eyes full of tears, that appealed more
forcibly to the love than the reason of him whom

she addressed. For answer he pressed her hand,
and said 

Do we love one another ? Where true love is,
there can surely be no sins'

With this fallacious response, he put her candle
in her hand and led her gently to the door.

When Anna reached her room, she stood sometime
with her hands clasped, like one in a dream.
The tumult of supreme happiness, and the sense
of some heavy calamity, seemed to mingle in her
breast. Visions of joy and terror swam before
her eyes. To be beloved, as she kneiv she was beloved,
was bliss; but to have the displeasure and
sorrow of the friends of her whole life hanging
upon that love was anguish. When she regained
some degree of composure, and tried to examine
into the " first steps of her many inconsistencies,
she found that it was taken when she first encouraged
Nelson, whom she did not love, simply because
she fancied Chatham was estranged from
her. How many, from pride, pique, vanity, and
revenge, have similarly fallen ! She could not bear
to think of the disappointment and agony of Nelson,
 he, so reserved, yet so susceptible ! of the
anger of Pynsent ; the delighted ire of the Captain,
and the surprise and sorrow of Jessie. Her name
would be a reproach ; she would be called coquette

jilt. And would she not deserve it? But then
to be married to Chatham ! Would not that alone
make amends for all the rest ? Wliat was the love
of the whole world compared with his love ? And
thus she thought, and thought ; negligently laying
aside the muslin dress and Christmas ornaments,
and unfastening the long, black hair,  so long,
that it reached far below her waists and hung about
her face like night around the moon.

Happily for us sinful mortals, there is habit in
prayer as in everything else. Those who have
lisped their night and morning prayers at a mother's
knee in infancy and childhood, and have felt
it a kind of duty to hurry through them in boyhood
or girlhood, still preserve the practice in more advanced
years, even though the spirit within them
be dead to the efficacy of the words they breathe.
Numbers who are careless about religion, and pass
their lives in a "vain shadows or in merely worldly
pursuits, still kneel by their bedsides at morn and
eve, to say the words they have been accustomed
to say to the Great Giver of all good things. It
may be they take His great name in vain, by using
it in the soulless way they do ; still, better, far better
the mere form than none at all. The sinner
may be made to think whilst bending before the
throne of the Most High ; and one serious thought.

like the first link in some great chain, may string
itself to another and another, until they shape
themselves into the one mysterious whole that
shall reach heaven in the form of prayer.

With a heart literally " divided against itself'
and little inclined to pious meditation, Anna knelt
as she used to do, before she lay down upon her
bed. Her devotion, like the rest of her acts and
deeds, was ever a matter of mere impulse. Sometimes
she could pour forth impassioned prayers;
at others, they were dead as the bones in the vision
of Ezekiel. Now she repeated the words of some
prayer that came mechanically from her lips, and
concluded by the heedless utterance of Our Lord's
Prayer. She was about to rise from her knees,
when a sudden light struck, like an arrow, into
her heart. Whether the Father of the fatherless,
looking upon His prostrate but heedless child, took
pity on the orphan according to His promise, and
sent that divine ray into her soul of His own tender
mercy,  or whether He has listened to the supplications
of that far-off sister for the stray white
lamb of her affection, none shall say,  but certain
it is that the ray has pierced through the dark
places. Suddenly Anna sees revealed the selfishness
of her own heart ; and who, that for the first
time beholds that selfishness, can behold it unshaken?

Such a sight is good, though unutterably
painful. The effects of it may pass away,
still it is never quite forgotten. She knew that it
was self alone she had sought to please, without
thought of God or man, sister or brother. She had
known-but the one idol,  her own beautiful, but
faulty self. And now she wept real tears of penitence;
she sobbed out her sudden sense of the
pain she had caused, and might cause. She remembered
her sister and Nelson, and seemed to be
awakened to new views of them. She saw that she
had caused Chatham's rupture with his father, and
would probably bring him to poverty. Above all,
she was conscious of her forgetfulness of the God
whom she had been early taught to worship, and
that she had lived for this world and herself alone.
We will leave her to her tears and supplications ;
they are bitter and heartfelt, but, like strong medicine,
efficacious to save.

All that evening both the Countess and the Lady
Georgiana had narrowly watched Chatham and
Anna. They had long known his feelings; they
had been doubtful until then of hers ; they were
so no more : they saw the excited anxiety to please,
and to draw him towards. her; the expressive delight
of her whole manner when she had done so.
They saw the sudden change in him. He had been

uncommunicative on all points during his visit,
therefore they knew nothing of his father s conduct,
and had attributed his melancholy wholly to
his uncertainty about Anna. He avoided the subject,
and used every possible means to prevent
finding himself alone with his aunt; whilst she
resolved to speak to him again upon it. She was
annoyed with him, and angry with Anna, though
she could not help confessing to herself that it was
Chatham who had sought Anna in spite of prudence
and common sense.

During the three following days it would have
been evident even to a stranger that some kind
of understanding had taken place between them.
His unreserved attention to her, his high spirits,
his improved looks,  all proved that a change, but
not, like Byron's, a melancholy one, had " come
o'er the spirit of his dream'' She too was changed.
Her moods were still fitful, like the lightning,  now
darting brilliantly through the atmosphere that
surrounded her, and vanishing away ; now flooding
her horizon for a few seconds, and disappearing;
or playing with clouds, as if to show the lights and
shadows of her varying temperament. But her
glance was always soft when she looked at Chatham
; her cheek always bright when his eyes met
hers. Still she was not happy. The letter and

its consequences weighed upon her heart. She
seemed to travel with it its two days journey,
and to long to drag the wheels of the coach as
it drew nearer and nearer to her home. She
knew the post time but too well. When it approached,
she rushed out alone into the frosty air
and paced the shrubberies. She heard Chatham's
footsteps near, but avoided him, as if he had no
right to be with her, when he was helping her to
inflict so much pain. She saw clearly in imagination
the letter given to Nelson. She watched the
change in his usually firm, severe countenance,
from pleasure to rage, passion, anguish. She
knew so well how it would be. Would he kill himself?
No; men rarely did that for love: never,
she believed. Would he go mad ? She could not
tell; the strength of his passion was so great.
She worked herself into such an agony of fear that
she was obliged to return to the house, to her
room, and there think of the consequences to him
who loved her so well. Then came the evening,
and she saw Pynsent giving Jessie her letter.
Perhaps the elders were present. She needed no
clairvoyance to transport herself, body and soul,
into that old hall, and watch the effects of her passionate
outpourings upon her sister. She saw the
painful expression of her usually calm features, the

tears in her sweet eyes, the doubt, fear, and perplexity
of her mind. Would she read the letter
aloud at once ? No ; she thought not. She would
study it again, alone, and then she would fall down
on her knees and pray for her ;t for her, so selfish,
so inconsiderate. She would not rejoice that Nelson
was free once more : she would only feel for
him. And at all these truly-pictured scenes Anna
could only weep. She was far away, and had
caused them all.

CHAPTER XXV.

Valentine. Love is your master, for he masters you ;
Aud he that is so yoked by a fool
Methinks should not be chronicled for wise.
Proteus. Yet writers say, as in the sweetest bud
The eating canker dwells, so eating love
Inhabits in the finest wits of all.
Val. And writers say. As the most forward bud
Is eaten by the canker ere it blow.
Even so by love the yovmg and tender wit
Is tm-ned to folly."  Two Gentlemen of Verona.

''I CANNOT settle anything until I have heard
from them; indeed I cannot!" said Anna, when,
on the following day, she and Chatham were alone
in the school-room, according to appointment.
She was really unwell, and declined walking. The
Lady Georgiana had taken the children out with
her ; the Countess was in her boudoir ; Chatham
had made a feint of going out for a ride, and had
returned by the backward, as soon as he saw, from
a distance, his aunt and little cousins set out for
their walk.

But this is over-fastidiousness," said Chatham.
'you have written openly to tell them the real

state of your feelings : you have broken off your
engagement with Burford before any interview
took place between us, and  "

But I have not heard how he has received my
letter, or whether he accepts my refusal."

"What else can he do , my dear Anna?"

He is of a very stern nature, and he may cast
all the blame on you ; he may think we are both
acting dishonourably, and that you have persuaded
me to this."

And if he does, I am a soldier, and so is he."

Chatham said this with a defiant air, and Anna
trembled.

I will not make up my mind to anything until
I hear," she said resolutely; "and  and  I feel
quite sure that I could never stoop to elope from
this roof. I could do it better if I belonged to
the house ; but in my present position, never. I
feel that it would be a tacit consent to their notions
that I am not good enough to enter their
family ; whereas I am equal with them in all but
fortune."

"But, Anna, what will you do? I have your
promise to be mine. You cannot retract that.
You say you will not return home. I fear, at least
I fancy '

I know what you would say. Your aunt would

not choose you to take a poor governess for your
bride from under her roof: of course she would
not. With all her nominal Christianity she is not
strong-minded, or rather humble-minded, enough
for that. She is fluent in her praise of the unworldly,
of those Who do right and generously by their
neighbours, without counting the cost in the eyes
of the world. But put her to the test ! Try her !
I have felt the change in her manners even since
she suspected you liked me. What do you think
she would do if she knew the present state of the
case ? Probably, with Christian suavity, give me
my dismissal at a moment's notice. They are all
alike''

You are hard upon her. But will you give me
your permission to put her to the test ? Will you
run the risk of her doing what you say? And
then, when all is clear, and she knows your sentiments
and mine, will you marry me when you
leave her?"

Yes ; I think I can do this. But I must first
hear from home. You cannot imagine how dreadful
has been the oppression of the past night : I
thought I should have died. If I slept, my dreams
were more uncomfortable than my waking thoughts,
I actually dreamed that I saw Nelson dying, and
heard him upbraiding me as the cause of his death ;

and Captain Burford was threatening me in the
most awful manner ; and Jessie was weeping ; and
all was confusion at Fairfield. And you  and you
they were tearing me away from you, and declaring
that I should never see you again."

*sand you awoke and found it nothing but a
dream. You are tormenting yourself foolishly.
You have done all you could. We cannot command
our affections. It was ordained that you
and I should love one another, and therefore you
could not care for Nelson. We can never love
truly more than once."

' But then  but then  I ought not to have ac -
accepted him,  my brother s friend, the son of my
lather s dearest friend  "

And promised, almost pledged to your sister.
Look upon him in a different lights Anna. Was
he not first false to her, in heart, if not in words ?
I know he was : I saw it. If he had not seen you ,
he would have married her. He could not help it,
any more than we can help what we are doing. I
am a fatalist in these matters. Believe me, half
the world commit secretly the sins that one-third
either do openly or have brought to light by circumstances.
Hypocrisy, good fortune, or good management
make ones reputation. I shall never
gain a reputation, for I cannot be a hypocrite. Fortune

frowns upon me and management of any
kind was never taught me/

"Jessie would disprove your argument; but I
am a bad talker on these matters being, I fear,
too much of your own frame of mind; but she
would say, that whatever is wrong in our nature,
or whatever temptations may beset us, we ought to
strive against and masters

Annabella Burton turned moralist ! Those lips
were never formed for such dry doctrine. Leave
it to your ' wisers, and let you and I talk folly.
There is time enough for gravity when. Darby and
Joan-like, we get grey together. Now, darling
Anna, look cheerful before I go away, and I promise
you that I will grow good and steady, and
talk propriety with you by-and-by.

Captain Michelson, one word mores

Anna Burton ! If you ever call me Captain
Michelson again I will never forgive you.

Chatham, then, listen to me. Perhaps you may
repent what you are going to do. Hear what
I say. If, upon due consideration or consultation
with others, you should think it wiser and more
prudent to give up this engagement, I shall at once
release you from it. One thing I am capable of
that is right, and that is to abide by the consequences
of my imprudence alone'

But I am not capable of allowing you to abide
by those awful consequences alone being too much
interested in them myself. You are magnanimous,
my dearest Anna ; but magnanimity was another
of the virtues that they never taught me in my
youth, and that I fear I shall never acquire in my
age. So I shall require your support and assistance
in this vast struggle."

I hear the children' said Anna, rising in some
alarm : " you had better go."

"Indeed I shall not," replied Chatham with
much nonchalance ; " they can come here if they
like ; I shall not hurt them. They are very nice
little people."

" Oh ! Miss Burton, how are you now ?" exclaimed
Rose, bursting into the room. " Cousin
Chatham ! Mamma has been asking and looking
for you, and Saunders said you were come in from
your ride, but he did not know where you were."

You see, little Rose," said Chatham, " I have
taken advantage of your absence to come and get
a lesson in grammar from Miss Burton. We have
been construing verbs."

I hate that," said the child, " it is so dry. But
I dare say you have been saying easy and pleasant
verbs," she added archly, "though Miss Burton
says she dislikes grammar just as much as I

VOL. II. K

do, and never used to get her lesson perfect at
school'

'swells' continued Chatham, "I do not think
she understands it as well as her pupils, or was half
as much interested in it. Where is your grammar ?
and we will question her''

Here it is, Cousin,  that horrid Murray."

Ah ! the very book ! I see they have the proper
verbs here as well as in Latin. The verb ' To
Love,' through all its 'modifications and derivations'
of ' number, person, mood, and tense.' Look
here, little Rose, and I will explain it to you. Aunt
Georgiana, come here and listen to my lesson of
grammar."

The Lady Georgiana had appeared at the door,
and looked surprised at seeing Chatham. She entered
the room, and he continued, unabashed : 

Verb ' To Love.' ' Number,' two. ' Person,'
two also, decidedly. ' Mood,' superlative,  T mean
imperative, because it is used for 'commanding,
exhorting, entreating, or permitting,' as ' Let me
love ; love thou, or do thou love ; let him or her
love ', let us love, etc' ' Tense or time,' present,
assuredly,  always present. Am I not right. Aunt
George ? Do I not understand grammar well ?"

You certainly appear to know something of
that verb," said the Lady Georgiana. '' I hope
your head is better, Miss Burton."

Thank sou, it aches stills replied Anna with
an effort to overcome her confusion and a somewhat
guilty blush on her cheek.

Oh ! that is not half. Aunt' again persisted
Chatham. " The have such moods in this verb.
Here is the indicative, which simply indicates the
soft impeachment then comes the potential, a
most powerful mood, but varied in its influences :
for instance, ' I may, might, could, would, or should
love, or have loved.' What could give greater scope
or latitude to the ' bewildering dream' ? That is
my mood."

Your mood is a very peculiar one today, I
think," said the Lady Georgiana, struggling to
conceal her annoyance.

Tolerably happy nevertheless," was the reply.

"I believe we are interrupting lessons just at
present," said the Lady Georgiana; "if, indeed,
you feel equal to having the children this afternoon,
Miss Burton?"

Oh, perfectly, I thank you," was Anna's reply
; and her guests left the room.

Chatham, I really think you are more harebrained
than ever," said the Lady Georgiana when
they were walking down the long passage.

Why ? because I am a better grammarian than

k2

I used to he, and have learnt to understand the
verb ' to love ? That is an unjust accusation'

Chatham would have said more, but he respected
Anna's desire to receive letters from home, and resolved
to wait till they came.

I will join you shortly, Aunt' he added, as he
suddenly disappeared into his own apartment.

The very day that Anna expected to hear from
Fairfield, was that previous to the one on which
Chatham was compelled to leave Plas Ayron. When
he got out of bed that morning, he felt himself, as
the Americans would say, " in a fix." He wished
to settle all his plans for the future before he went
away, but it was impossible to do so, unless he could
manage to remain some days longer. He could not
venture to ask for more leave of absence, therefore
what was he to do ? He suddenly felt very poorly.
It was a curious transition from a state of anxious
thought, to one of nervous excitement. Any one
who had seen him, five minutes before, meditating
with a razor in his hand, before the looking-glass,
and apparently in good health, would have been
surprised to behold him stalking up and down the
room, apparently out of his mind. Now he puts
one hand on the other to feel his pulse ; now he
places it on his heart ; again he presses his forehead.


Violent palpitation of the heart, and feverish
headache, will be best," he mutters. " I have them
often enough, and my pulse is always quick;
moreover it will have time to subside against he
comes. I declare I have a slight headache, and am
rather feverish. As to my heart, it always beats
very violently. There is quite enough for a cases

Chatham threw down the razor ; took off such
garments as he had put on ; laughed heartily, and
jumped into bed. No sooner had he got in than
he was out again, and put a decanter of water and
a glass by his bedside, together with a small bottle
of drops that he was accustomed to take when he
suffered from palpitation of the heart. He was
soon in bed again, and rang the bell violently.
The butler made his appearance.

Saunders," began Chatham in a feeble voice,
I have been very ill. Those dreadful palpitations !
they will kill me sooner or later. Nothing relieves
me this morning. I really think I must
have Dr. Jones. Could you send for him without
alarming the Countess or Lady Georgiana ? I have
had such a night !"

" Bless me ! bless me ! you look uncommon ill.
I will send directly. Sir. Can I do anything. Sir '?"

No, thank you, Saunders. If you would just
send at once. How long is it before the doctor
can arrive ?''

About an horn, Sir, if he is at home when the
messenger gets to towns

Then pray send, but do not alarm the house.
Bring him up quietly. Tell them that I am not
very well. Do not let my grandmother know anything
about it at present. Oh, these spasms ! '

Here Chatham made an awful face, that so frightened
Saunders as to send him from the room in a
moment, and thence to despatch a messenger for
the doctor. He soon returned.

Are you better now. Sir?" he asked.

'' A little, Saunders : very little. Oh dear ! ''

'' Don't give way. Sir ; they will be better by-and-by.
A little brandy. Sir. Better let me ask
my Lady for something : she knows what's good
for those sort of complaints''

I will have a cup of strong coffee and a little
dry toast. These attacks exhaust me so much that
I am obliged to eat and drink to support nature."

Try an q, Sir ?  a beaten Qg ?"

' I cannot bear beaten eggs ; but perhaps I could
swallow a boiled one. Oh, this pain ! "

Another fearful contortion of the face sent Saunders
off again to see whether the messenger was
gone. He returned accompanied by the Lady
Georgiana.

My dear Chatham, what is the matter ? " she
began.

"Confound that fool, Saunders!" murmured
Chatham, when he heard his aunts voice. " Only
an attack of spasms : do not be alarmed, my dear
Aunt, but I thought it best to send for Dr. Jones."

He is only a surgeon, Chatham, not a physician.
Shall we send off to Cardigan for a physician ? "

Oh no ! by no means. I dare  say  they 
will  pass,  oh ! such sudden twinges ! "

Let me feel your pulse."

Here Saunders, who had previously left the room,
returned with coffee and toast.

If you will leave me now, I will drink a cup
of coffee and try to sleep. I hope I shall soon be
better, but they make me so very weak for days."

You do not look very ill, either," said the Lady
Georgiana. " I hope you are not alarmed."

These spasms always alarm me. But I cannot
talk just at present."

Let me get you a sedative."

There is my remedy," said Chatham, pointing
to the bottle on the chair, " but it has wholly failed.
I will wait till the doctor comes."

Breakfast is waiting, my Lady," said Saunders,
I will attend to Captain Michelson."

Oh, pray go, my dear Aunt ; you will alarm
my grandmother if you remain here."

Promise to send for me if the spasms return."

"Certainly; I surely wills

The Lady Georgiana went away, and Chatham
sat up in led, rising with apparent effort. It was
however without any apparent effort that he drank
his coffee, and ate his eggs and toast ; although he
assured Saunders that he did it purely from principle.
It is strange how many invalids make very
good meals upon that same " principle V it is evidently
easy of digestion. When he had finished
his breakfast, he told Saunders that he would try
to sleep, and made himself comfortable for that
purpose. He either slept, or feigned sleep, for
nearly an hour, and, when his aunt crept on tiptoe
into the room, was breathing heavily, and seemingly
with difficulty. His face was concealed by
the bedclothes, and she could not see how he
looked. She crept again out of the room, and
when she was gone, the head rose slowly from underneath
the sheets, and peered round the apartment.


I really am not well, and my heart is slightly
affectedly he said ; " I wonder how I look V'

He jumped out of bed, and stood before the glass.

Rather too well, I fears he continued in soliloquy
: " palish, but not pale enough for so violent
an attack."

He began to put his whiskers into aU kinds of

curious shapes and to ruffle his fine black locks.
A horse was heard tearing up the drive : he was in
bed again in a moment. Tn less than five minutes
more Dr. Jones, the country apothecary, was feeling
his pulse.

I am better now' said Chatham feebly, " but
these heart attacks are dreadful whilst they last''

"Ah! surely! yes!" ejaculated Dr. Jones, his
hand on the pulse, and his eye on the minute-hand
of his watch. " Subsiding ; no alarming symptom
in the pulse : rather quick still."

"You should feel them during the attack,"
groaned Chatham, turning up the whites of his
eyes.

Very bad, Sir, eh ? I suppose so. Subject to
these attacks ?" asked the Doctor.

Yes, very. They leave one so awfully weak."

A good deal of indigestion, I imagine ; the
pulse does not vary much," said Dr. Jones ; " let
me look at your tongue. Ah ! thank you ; that
will do," and he shook his head at sight of the
tongue,  why, Chatham could not imagine. " How
long have you been subject to heart complaint ?"

Ever since I can remember : but it is always
the same, the doctor never arrives till the attack is
past or passing, and is never a fair judge."

Oh, cause and effect, Sir ; we judge of causes

K 3

by their effects. Nervous temperament I should
say?-

' Awfully' said Chatham, with an unexpected
twinge of the muscles of the face ; ' so sensitive
that I can scarcely bear any one to mention my
nerves. Cause and effect I suppose. Doctor ?"

' Precisely. Did you ever consult any eminent
practitioner ?"

Half London, but to no purposes

How strange !" said the Doctor sagaciously.
' It seems to me such a very clear case ; but those
dons done always see straight," and here he muttered
several Latin words, too hard for a soldier to
understand.

I feel that if I could be under your care for a
week," said Chatham, " I should get well : I have
such confidence in your skill, from all I have heard
my Aunt say of you."

'' Much honoured ! her Ladyship always very
kind, I'm sure. I think I could set you up in a
week."

The misfortune is  " said Chatham, rising in
the bed, and suddenly sinking back again,  " oh,
this weakness !  the misfortune is, that I am compelled
to return to my regiment at once."

Impossible, Sir ! it might be your death."

Such are the hard rules of the Army : unless

indeed you thought it right to send a sick certificates


Of course I do ; I would not answer for the consequences
said the Doctor, getting up and walking
about the room in some wrath.

There is no time to lose, thence said Chatham;
since it must be sent by this very post. There
are writing materials on that table, if you will take
the trouble. How talking does exhaust one V

Pray keep quiet ; I will write at once ;" and
with all the "pomp and circumstances of office,
Dr. Jones took a pen from the inkstand : it was
full of ink, and slit half through : he carefully
wiped it in the tail of his coat, abstracted a penknife
from his pocket, and slowly began to mend it.
Having secured a fine point, he turned over the
leaves of the blotting-book until he found a stray
sheet of paper, and then deliberately sat down.
Chatham thought he would never have concocted
that bulletin. With his elbow on the table, and
his consideration cap on his mind, he sat thinking.
At last he slowly wrote his certificate, and then
read it. It was not finished. He made several
corrections, and patiently copied it. When he
found it to his taste, he rose, and presented it to
Chatham. Nothing could be more satisfactory to
the invalid, inasmuch as it testified to his being ina

very clangorous state from heart complaint.
Chatham began to grow nervous and to fancy that
his sham illness had been tm-ned into a real one,
as a judgment upon him. He put a guinea into
the hand of the Doctor, who again seated himself
by his side, and began deliberately to count his
pulse. Excitement and exertion had quickened
them, and brought a feverish colour into his cheek.
Dr. Jones shook his head ; he rose hastily, saying,
"We must put a stop to this," and with a low
bow quitted his patient.

Lady Georgiana met him in the hall.

What do you think of Captain Michelson, Mr.
Jones?" she asked.

Nothing very alarming, my Lady ; we shall set
him up with care and time : requires great quiet :
tendency to disease of the heart : weakness and
unnatural excitement : pulse quick, feverish,  buta
weeks doctoring and dosing will do wonders. I
have written his sick certificate, so we shall have
time. I assure your Ladyship that your Ladyship
need not be alarmed. Excuse me, my Lady, I
must hasten to send the necessary remedies. If
your Ladyship would send at once for medicine, I
should be much obliged."

A messenger was forthwith despatched, and returned
in due course of time, with a whole basket

of drugs. Lady Georgiana seized upon them, and
took them herself to Chatham.

Two of these pills to be taken at once ; three
tablespoonfuls of this mixture every four hours,"
she read aloud to the invalid ; " let me give them
to you. Now, here is water, and a roasted apple
to take after them."

I cannot swallow pills," said Chatham ; " I
never could : I wish I had told him so."

You must ! or, would you rather take the mixture
first, and the pills in an hour ?"

I really do not see how I can swallow either ;
I am such a baby in the matter of medicine."

I will certainly call my mother," said the Lady
Georgiana, smiling ; " do you remember that you
used to be half drenched by her when you were a
boy ? You must take this medicine."

' Well, I will make an attempt to swallow the
pills ; but you need not be at the trouble of making
yourself sick by watching me."

I have no weakness of that kind, my dear
Chatham; I am too much accustomed to dose
children and servants, to say nothing of poor people,
who are frequently more tiresome than you are."

Chatham perceived that there was no remedy,
and accordingly swallowed two of the bitterest pills
he had ever slipped down his most unwilling throat.

You are to be kept quite quiet, so I will leave
you for the present' said Lady Georgians ; " you
shall have some arrowroot or sago by-aud-by."

I cannot drink slops said Chatham, " and I
believe I require great support in these attacks.
Thank you, my dear Aunt ; I think I had better
talk no more just at present'

Lady Georgians left the room once more, and
Chatham blessed his luckless stars that she was
gone. He procured a book from the table, and
was deep in the trials of ' Jenny Deans,' when he
heard his door creak, in about half an hour's time,
and once more saw his aunt appear. His book
and head were under the bedclothes before she
stood by the bed.

Chatham, I am sorry to disturb you," she said,
'but it is time that you should take your mixture."

Confound the mixture !" muttered Chatham
under the bedclothes, already feeling rather sick
from the effects of the pills. .

When he looked up, there was his aunt, with a
glassful of the nauseous ingredients in one hand
and an orange in the other. He had no choice ;
he must pay the penalty of his cheat, and swallow
some of the bitters as well as the sweets of the god
Cupid : he made such a grimace that his aunt
laughed heartily.

Excuse me, Chatham ; I could not help it ;
you must not be ill long, or your face will be
turned inside outs

' Something else wills growled Chatham.

No sooner was his aunts back turned than he
put his watch on half an hour. He tried to read
in vain. He had no longer occasion to sham illness;
he was so dreadfully sick, that he believed
Dr. Jones had poisoned him. Never had he
looked at his watch so anxiously before. Saunders
came with his Lady's arrowroot and his own, or,
more properly, the cook's little recherche omelette.
Chatham could touch neither.

"If I get out of this, he murmured when
again alone, "I vow I will never act, much less
speak, a lie again as long as I live. This is the
first and the last. Anna ! Anna ! if you cost meas
much in wedded life as you have in single, I
shall heartily repent marrying you.

Three hours, or rather two hours and a half
passed, and Chatham poured out the three tablespoonfuls
of the odious mixture, got out of bed
and threw it under the grate amongst the ashes ;
then he stirred the fire over it, and effectually concealed
all traces, returned to his bed, and put the
glass by his side.

"Now, Chatham, it is time for your mixture,"

said Lady Georgians, when the actual three hours
had intervened.

"I have taken it, I thank you,  I mean it is
gone/ said Chatham ; the first half of his speech
having been said aloud, and the last under the
bedclothes, as a kind of mental reservation, in
pursuance of his resolution never to tell another
lie, white or black.

"But it is not times' said his aunt in some
alarm.

Past, by my watches said Chatham.

There must be some strange alteration in the
clock," said the Lady Georgiana. " How do you
feel?"

As sick as a hundred dogs, I should think."

Have you had any return of palpitation ?"

None whatever."

The children send their loves. They are dying
to come and see you, and making themselves
miserable about you."

"Oh, pray let them come by-and-by. Is the
post in ?"

I think it has just come. I will go and open
the bags."

When Lady Georgiana was gone, Chatham
again jumped out of bed, and wrote a few lines to
Anna, explaining matters, and begging her to

send a reply through the children. He put his
note between the leaves of a book, wrapping the
book carelessly in paper, but tying it round with
twine. By-and-by a tap at the door was followed
by Rose and a letter. To his little visitor he gave
the book for Anna, and told her to ask Miss
Burton for the second volume, if she had done
reading it, and to bring it to him in the evening,
by which time he knew she must have received
and digested letters from home.

In due haste and importance came, in the course
of the afternoon. Dr. Jones. He pronounced the
symptoms favourable, the fever abated, and the
pulse slackened. Chatham no longer required to
feign, for he was unquestionably indisposed.

In the evening the children came, and brought
the book.

Why did Miss Burton wrap it up, Cousin V
asked Violet.

Perhaps she did not think it a proper book for
you to look into,  the reason that made me wrap
up mines Chatham bit his tongue at the sudden
recollection that he was uttering another falsehood.

Oh no ! Miss Burton knows that we would
not read books she tells us not to read," said
Violet.

I must send you away now, dears, because I

cannot talk much. Thank Miss Burton for the
book." The children kissed him, and departed.

Chatham soon opened the little parcel. Inside
the leaves of the book were two letters, on which
was written " Read this." Chatham opened, with
fear and trembling, the letter directed in a man's
hand. It contained the one simple but powerful
sentence 

False, deluding Annabella, you are free.

"Nelson Burford."

Underneath this was written in pencil by Anna,
Do what you like."

'' Short and sweet," said Chatham, with a real
sharp pain at his heart. He felt deeply for Nelson,
and he knew that all was not right. He opened
the other letter, which was from Jessie. This was
written in great agitation : there was evidently a
powerful conflict in the mind of the writer. " You
have been wrong, very wrong, dearest Anna, and
right, very right : wrong to accept one you did
not love, and right to break off your engagement
when you found that you could not love him.
But if this has been all done from mere sudden
passion, pique, fancy, vanity,  anything but reason
and right principle,  it is all, all wrong. I
do not clearly see the right, for some one must

suffer. Poor Nelson ! I have not seen him for a
long time ; I am still less likely to see him now,
but I know what he will endure. Oh, Anna !
could you not love him ?  him, so gentle, yet so
firm ; so honourable and so brave ; so tender and,
at heart, so loving? You do not know him, or
you could not have treated him thus. He is not
like other men : the more reserved his nature,
the more sensitive ; and, once deceived, mortified,
wounded, he will never, never be the same again.
He may grow morose and misanthropic, and will,
I am almost sure, be lost to his friends for ever.
Anna, Anna, what has your beauty done ! My
poor, poor sister !"

"What has her beauty done ?" murmured Chatham,
as he pondered over Jessicass letter. " Made
a conquest of two hearts as different as can be.
Nelson is all Jessie says,  the soul of honour,
gravity, constancy, reserve, kindness, bravery, and
particularity; I, his successful rival, have some
honour too, but am the soul of mirth, candour,
inconstancy, selfishness, and carelessness. Lewis
Gwynne, again, is the soul of stiffness, archness,
stupidity, vanity, and priggishness. Yet she has
brought us all three fairly at her feet : no reservation,
no counting costs. And all for what? I
cannot tell myself. Not great talent nor great

sense,, though she has enough of both for a woman,
but simple fascination. What is there in this one
daughter of that tempting and doubtless equally
beautiful mother Eve, to have such power? and
will it not still exist when we are married ? and
am not I the most jealous of created beings?
But she loves me,  at least I think she does, for
she never gave me any decided demonstrations.
And here am I fibbing and feeling as sick as if I
was at sea, and giving up my horses, and offending
my friends, and getting lackadaisical, and making
a fool of myself,  and all ' because a woman's
fair,' as the song says. But ' what's the odds as
long as you're happy ?' So my mind is made up
and ' allons notre trains vogue la galere/ as that
prince of love-makers, Moliere, hath it. And I
don't care what happens. And if ' don't care '
was eaten up by lions, as the Spelling-book said,
why one can only be eaten up once in one's life,
and it does not matter much when the meal is
made; so love and Anna for ever !"

CHAPTER XXVI.

Joys unexpected, and in desperate plight,
Are still most sweet, and prove from whence they come ;
When earth's still moonhke confidence in joy
Is at her full : true joy, descending far
From past her sphere, and from that highest heaven
That moves, and is not moved."  George Chapman.

I AM five or six and twenty, Aunt Georgians'
said Chatham the following morning, seated in the
easy chair in the library and looking rather poorly,
' and I do not see why I may not fall in love if I
have a fancy that way, as well as my fathers before
me/

I dare say you may, and have fallen in love
with impunity a hundred times, said the Lady
Georgiana; 'but I return to my old starting-point,
and say that you ought to have some respect
for young ladies hearts, as well as your
owns

' I have the greatest possible respect for all
sorts of palpitations; I am too well acquainted
with their motions not to have a feeling in common

with them all. But to be serious, what should you
think of my getting married ?'

The Lady Georgiana started; but, pausing a
moment as if to arrange her ideas, she said 

It would depend on circumstances, as such
matters generally do."

Be so good as to explain what you mean by
' circumstances " said Chatham.

The circumstances that would make me think
your marrying prudent, would be your making a
sensible match."

And now, be so good as to explain what you
mean by a ' sensible matches "

A sensible match, in my opinion, would be a
lady of your own rank in life, with sufficient fortune
to make up for your own lack of it."

Surely it is not the Lady Georgiana ]meredith
that is speaking," said Chatham, uplifting his eyebrows
; " that usually disinterested lady, whom I
have always heard descant so warmly on the beauty
and fitness of mutual attachment, suitability of disposition
and reciprocity of sentiments, etc. etc."

Lady Georgiana blushed slightly, for she felt
that her anxiety about Chatham had led her to
forget her " first principles."

'sall that is understood," she said.

Then, supposing I should choose to marry a

lady who had not the  expressed part of the
 good match ' to boast of, but all , and a vast deal
more than the understood what should you
think ?

"That you would be very unwise and imprudent,
and would probably bring down much misery
on her and yourself both'

Chatham bit his lip.

What if it is signed, sealed, and settled ? ' he
asked.

That the sooner it is unsigned, unsealed, and
unsettled, the betters' replied the Lady Georgiana
quickly.

All women are alike," said Chatham ; " not one
of you will allow any one but her own individual
self to marry without station and money. If a
woman falls in love herself with a scamp or a
beggar, she sees no obstacles ; but let any one belonging
to her do the same, and law and justice
are forgotten in her anxiety to prevent the result.
I always looked upon you as a perfect woman until
now, because I thought you unselfish."

I am anxious for your welfare, Chatham," said
Lady Georgiana calmly.

' That is only to be assured by my marrying a
woman that I could love'' said Chatham. " I
should become the merest roue and vaut-rien inexistence,

if I was mated with one I did not care
for.

Lady Georgiana felt there was truth in this, and
scarcely knew how to reply. Whilst she was considering
the matter, Chatham anticipated her by
adding 

I know all your arguments, good and bad ; but
it is useless beating about the bush when we each
know the game the other is aiming at. I have
loved Annabella Burton from the first moment I
saw her ; and it is my full intention, having, I am
happy to say, gained her consent, to marry her."

This downright declaration confounded Lady
Georgiana. At last she said 

Chatham, you cannot be in earnest !"

' For the very first time in my life, yes, I amin
earnest."

You cannot, of course, expect me to countenance
such an engagement,  here ! under my
roof ! my nephew  and  and  my governess ! "

Lady Georgiana was growing very red.

As to your ' countenances " said Chatham
satirically, " you must wear that as you think
proper."

Ungrateful! deceitful!" murmured Lady Georgians.


Not Miss Burton," interrupted Chatham ;

she has only within the last two days accepted
my proposal; and had she been as anxious as I
am, she would have been on the road to Gretna
or some less romantic church, at this moment ;
but she spurns all underhand proceedings

This is too absurd, Chatham. You know that
your father would not consent to such a match,
and that you are dependent upon him.

' He has kindly removed that obstacle."

"How?"

"By removing his allowance, and leaving me
independent."

Have you quarrelled ?"

I suppose so ; since he politely declared his intention
of cutting me off with a shilling if I did
not marry that good matches Miss Erskine. I
asked him  with Sheridan, I think it was  whether
he 'chanced to have the shilling in his pockets as
I sadly wanted one ; and he got into a furious passion,
and so we parted. Since this I have been
living on my pay and my own resources."

And you mean to marry Miss Burton ?"

"Yes."

"And starve with her?"

I ardently hope not ; because I always think
death by hunger must be the most painful of all
deaths, and shooting oneself would be betters

VOL. II. L

I wish she had never come here. At all events,
it is impossible for her to remain."

Justice and moderation again ! " said Chatham.
Her coming here had nothing to do with it, for
I should have seen her at Fairfield; and I trust
she wil soon be, as my wife, under no obligation
to any one for the shelter of a roof."

Chatham rose from his chair and walked out of
the room. His aunt, without waiting, according
to her usual good habit, to think before she acted,
also walked out of the room, and went direct to
the school-room. She told the children that she
wished to speak to Miss Burton, and that they
might go to their grand mamma. Alone with Anna,
she was not slow in beginning the subject nearest
her heart ; for when excited she was hasty by nature,
and it was only by stern self-control that she
had learnt to overcome this haste.

Anna felt that her hour was come, and tried to
nerve herself for it. She trembled, but immediately
cased herself in her pride, which was generally
the armour of proof that she put on when
any resistance to her will was likely to take place.
She sat erect and haughty, with a slight glance
of defiance in her eyes; whilst the Lady Georgiana,
naturally a nervous woman, fidgeted with her gold
chain, and looked perseveringly on her lap.

Miss Burton/ began the latter carefully avoiding
the defiant glance that she felt was ready to
beam upon her, " my nephew. Captain Michelson,
has given me to understand that he is engaged to
you." Here she paused, as if expecting a reply
from Anna ; but receiving none, continued  " If
this is the case, you will excuse my saying that it
is so imprudent a thing, that it could not possibly
meet with the approbation of any one member of
our family." Another pause, but still no remark
from Anna. " As this must have been carried on
under my roof, I think it my duty to speak to you
freely on the subject, and to tell you that I wholly
disapprove of it, and that I consider you to have
acted a very deceptive part."

I can have been guilty of no deception," here
burst forth Anna, " since I have not seen Captain
Michelson alone more than once or twice since I
have been with you : and it appears that, almost
immediately after those two private interviews, he
spoke to you upon the subject."

Of course. Miss Burton, you are aware that
Captain Michelson is wholly dependent on his father,
and that he is not likely to approve of his
son's marrying at present."

"I am perfectly well acquainted with Mr. Michelson's
disapprobation of anything that his son

L 2

may like and know him so well myself that I feel
quite convinced he would never consent to my becoming
his daughter-in-law/

And would you be the means of severing father
and sone'

"Your Ladyship is not probably aware that I
have long been the means of severing father and
son and that without the fault either of Captain
Michelson or myself; if indeed those may be called
severed who were never united'

"I do not understand you, Miss Burton. I
know that Mr. Michelson has quarrelled with
Chatham, because he has refused to marry Miss
Erskine on your account."

I do not suppose that Captain Michelson would
have married Miss Erskine even had he never had
the misfortune to see me. But this is only the
ostensible cause of Mr. Michelson's anger."

Anna was getting excited, and as her voice and
colour rose Lady Georgiana glanced at her, and
met her indignant eye. When two pair of indignant
eyes meet, it is all over with temper and self-restraint.


Mr. Michelson," continued Anna, " would have
married me himself, and therefore was enraged at
the thought of his son's doing so. He is a proud,
vain pompous, selfish man, who never cared for

any one but himself; and I wonder how any person
knowing him could even name him. He jilted my
own aunt, and afterwards, in his own house, proposed
for me, or rather, condescended to give
me to understand that he was going to do me
the honour of marrying me. I believe he soon
found out that the Burtonss have been for centuries
a race of the true gentle blood, that scorn alike
the vulgar condescension and the still more vulgar
scorn of the great. We are poor, but we are
proud; and in our native county no man would
be considered to degrade himself by an alliance
with the Burtonss and Pynsents.'

Lady Georgiana had never seen Anna in one of
her magnificent moods before, and she was astonished.
She felt moreover a little afraid of the
young lady when she saw her flashing eyes and
majestic air, and heard her rapid enunciation of
the proud words she uttered. Still her usually
mild Ladyship was not one to be easily put down
when once she was set up. Your placid people
rarely are : they generally manage to get the last
and the best of a dispute. She let Anna have time
to recover her breath, and then she said, somewhat
hastily for her, " We are not speaking of degradation,
Miss Burton, but of propriety; neither are
we talking of what has been, but of what is. If

you were to use your judgment, you must know-that
Captain Miclielson, with no income but his
pay, would be doing a mad thing to marry any girl
without fortune."

"I should think' said Anna, "that he is the
best judge of what is good for him : he is of age,
and his own master; therefore need not appeal
either for advice or assistance to any of his relations.
As to me, I am not without fortune. My
father left my sister and myself a provision when
we marry, because he did not choose that his
daughters should be taken upon charity. I did
not force myself upon Captain Michelson's notice :
he sought me out, and has more than once wished
me to engage myself to him ; but I have refused.
I told him that the Lady Georgiana Meredith
would be the first to oppose his wishes ; and I was
right."

You certainly were right ; and I must farther
assure you that in my house I cannot allow this
affair to proceed any further. At home, with your
relations and guardians, you can of course act as
you think proper."

I understand you, Lady Georgiana. I knew
you would dismiss me as soon as you found that
Captain Michelson thought seriously of me. I am
quite ready to go at once ; tomorrow, if you will.

My slight services for the last two years have been
sufficiently rewarded, and of course friendship
could not exist where the disparity of rank and
fortune is so greater

use harsh language, Miss Burton ; but it
does not alter my determination. If you are resolved
to marry Captain Michelson, I again say
that it is with the disapprobation of his family,
and therefore I cannot permit him and you to remain
together heres'

I have frequently heard your Ladyship talk of
the power of strong mutual attachment to make
life happy, and of the misery of married life without
it: I have heard you instance yourself and
your sister, Captain Michelsons mother, as examples
of both cases ; and I have heard you declare
that, if no moral objection existed, you would
never thwart your children's inclinations, or force
them into an unnatural channel. You do not then
carry your philanthropy beyond your home circle :
you exclude your nephew and  and  your governess.
If I were in any other position, you probably
would admit me within the enchanted ring; but
as I am, I am born to suffer, you suppose, and
must bear my lot patiently. Do you not think
that Captain Michelson may be made as miserable
as his mother if he marry for rank and fortune ;

and that I may be capable of as great happiness as
you or your children if I marry for love V

Lady Georgiana knew there was truth in all that
Anna said, but she evaded her direct thrust by
saying, as she rose and left the room, *We are
both of us too much excited to talk calmly over
this matter now. I will see you again, when you
have considered it more coolly."

Whilst Anna reflected, in no very Christian
spirit, upon Lady Georgiana' s words, that lady
went to her mother, and poured out all the grievances
from beginning to end. The Countess heard
her without interruption, and when she had finished
allowed some little time to elapse before she spoke,
in order to give her an opportunity of subduing the
unnatural excitement that had taken possession of
her mind. At last she said, " My dear Georgiana,
I fear that you have been over-hasty, and unlike
yourself. Remember that Miss Burton is young;
that she is beautiful and of good birth; that she
has never been used to unkindness or ungentle
treatment ; above all, that she is under our protection.
How can you send a lady away from your
house in such a manner and for such a cause ? If
she had a hundred lovers, and they were all brothers
and nephews of yours, you could not do it,
and would not, 1 am sure, had you considered before

you spoke. You could not so dismiss a servant
unless she had robbed you or committed some
great moral misdemeanour. Miss Burton has done
her duty by the children; has been kind and
obliging to you; tender and affectionate to me
and I am not likely to forget it. She has conducted
herself always as a lady, and has evidently
struggled through much that was distasteful to
her, in order to please us and improve the children.
If Chatham has fallen in love with her, it
is not her fault. I am quite sure that he has done
it of his own accord ; and I do not think it is her
fault if she has returned his attachment. It is
all simply very natural. Both young, handsome,
agreeable, light-hearted, and ingenuous; neither
counting costs or looking beyond the present moment.
The fault is mine. Like a vain old fool, 1
thought Chatham had come and remained for my
sake ; whereas he had a stronger and more lovely
attraction. Unsay, at least, what you have said
about Miss Burton s quitting us at once, and we will
think and talk of the rest another time. The flame
is fanned by such hasty opposition, and you make
them both enemies instead of friendship

Lady Georgiana had been always accustomed to
listen to her mother's opinions with the utmost
deference. She rarely contradicted her ; and her

l3

usual custom was, if she differed greatly with her,
or felt irritated at anything she said, to leave her
as soon as an opportunity offered. The truth was,
that they were both of somewhat hasty temper,
and both anxious to subdue it; so, rather than
come to a dispute, they knew that a temporary
separation was best ; after which one or the other
was sure to acknowledge herself in the wrong. In
the present instance Lady Georgiana, being more
than usually excited, felt much inclined to argue
the point with her mother, but she knew that argument
always injured the Countess ; so she obtained
the mastery over herself, and hastily and very unceremoniously
withdrew to her own apartment.

It would have been curious for a stranger to
peep into the different rooms on the second story
of that large house, and glance at their inmates.
In the first there is the Countess, in solitary confinement,
looking grave, but not unhappy. In the
second there is the Lady Georgiana, also in solitary
confinement, under lock and key, walking up
and down the room in no very agreeable mood,
chafing under some ire that she is trying to reason
down. In the third is Chatham, also in solitary
confinement, with a face like a thunder-cloud, biting
his nails, and vowing vengeance upon all his
relations. In the fourth is Anna, also in solitary

confinement, under bolt and bar, crying and sobbing,
more apparently from passion than from grief,
since there is more of pride than sorrow in her
countenance. In the fifth, the school-room, is the
little Violet, creeping from Annans door to the
school-room with tears in her eyes, and evident
indecision in her mind as to the propriety of demanding
admission, and trying to comfort her
afflicted friend. In the sixth is Rose, the only
happy solitary of the party, playing with her doll,
and watched by Ruth, her nurse, who is seated,
also in solitary state, in the seventh and last apartment
of the suite. Unlike the " seven wives" that
the man met "going to St. Ives," or the seven
giants who were all buried together, and all arose
together at the sound of a certain beU,  these
seven worthies evidently shun fellowship, and prefer
loneliness to companionship.

Some time elapses before any outward change
takes place. What revolution has been going on
inwardly cannot be guessed. The Lady Georgiana
is the first to give symptoms of a revulsion of feeling.
She is seen to walk irresolutely down the passage,
and to stop at the school-room door. Here
she is soon met by Violet, who runs up to her, and
asks, "What is the matter with Miss Burton, Mamma
? She has been crying for a long time."

' Where is Miss Burton, Violet?" inquires the
Lady Georgiana.

In her room, Mamma."

Her Ladyship goes to the room, and hesitating
as she reaches the door, colours, and trembles
slightly as she knocks, and asks for admission.
 I will come shortly," says Anna from within.
May I not come in for a few moments?" asks
the Lady Georgiana.

The door opens; and Anna, with red eyes and
clouded brow, admits her unwelcome visitor, who,
going towards the fire, begins to fidget with an
ornament on the mantelpiece. A hard struggle is
going on within  that of pride with Christian love
and charity. You see it in the workings of the
sweet, pure countenance. Anna has also her
struggle, but it is of pride over passion,  an effort
to keep the bitter thoughts and feelings of the
roused mind from utterance in words. Christian
love and charity conquer. Would to God they
always did ! then should we enjoy a perpetual millennium
in this now unholy world.

Miss Burton," said the Lady Georgiana, still
playing with the ornament on the mantelpiece, " I
am very sorry that I should have hurt your feelings
and offended you. I am still more sorry that
I could have spoken to you in so thoughtless a

manner of leaving my house. Will you consider
those words unsaid, and at least remain with us as
long as shall be convenient and agreeable to you todo
so ? Perhaps, when we have all thought more
calmly, and talked more quietly, we may come to
a better understanding upon the grand subject of
our dispute."

Oh, the sudden change in the face of Anna !
Have you seen a frowning, cloud-capped rock instantaneously
illuminated by sunshine ? Have you
remarked that the dark sides become bright, and
glow with hues of red and gold,  that a thousand
wild flowers, and pink and green mosses, and yellow
lichens, before concealed, start into sight, perhaps
glittering in diamond dewdrops ? So was it
with Anna. The cloud melted into the sunlight;
the dewy tears, hitherto studiously concealed,
gleamed upon the eyelashes, and the face grew
radiant with grateful feeling. So true it is that
kind words win the heart, as the flowers attract
the bee, and make her forget her sting.

Anna was disarmed ; she could not speak. But
Lady Georgiana saw the change, and hastily added,
to avoid seeming to expect conciliation or apologies


You will, I am sure, forgive what I said in
the excitement of the moment. I am always sorry

when I rdlow sudden feeling or passion to make me
forget that humility which our Saviour taught us/

Can you forgive me ? " murmured Anna. " I
see now that I have been thoughtless and rude,
and unjust towards you. I am sorry, very sorry;
but still I cannot change my intention. I have
promised, and cannot allow you to suppose that I
can ever alters'

' We will not renew the subject now, said the
Lady Georgiana, again fidgeting with the ornament
on the mantelpiece, and repressing a rising
inclination to irritation; "I hope we shall meet
again as usual." She held out her hand, and Anna
pressed it lovingly.

Do not think me ungrateful," said Anna ; "I
am not so at heart. I thank you for all your kindness,
and for all your patience with me. Wherever
I go, I shall always carry with me the remembrance
of the consideration you have shown me,
and the home you have given me."

Here Anna burst into tears. Lady Georgiana
begged her to compose herself, but brushed a tear
from her own eye as she did so ; for she felt a sincere
affection for the beautiful but wilful girl she
saw before her. She thought quiet and reflection
would be the best remedies for her agitation, so
she again left her alone.

The evening was an awkward one to all but the
Countess who seemed very composed and happy,
and who was more than usually kind to Anna.
Chatham, who had industriously kept to his room
all the afternoon, looked gloomy and out of temper
; and that night, when they were all supposed
to be at rest, a letter was brought by Ruth to
Anna from him, written in no very kindly spirit.
He urged her to marry him at once, and so to
avoid all the pride and absurdity of his ridiculous,
puritanical, and unnatural aunt,  for by all these
epithets he called her.

Anna was now more unsettled in mind than ever,
and was almost inclined to follow Lady Georgians
wishes, and do away with the engagement
altogether. But she was too much in love for
such a sacrifice, and would not have had strength
of mind to go through with it ; so she resolved to
see Chatham, and talk the matter over with him
before she decided upon what course to pursue.
She was supremely miserable ; for not only did she
feel that she had offended all her own friends, and
acted ill by Nelson, but she was now causing Chatham
to offend his friends, and to do unquestionably
a foolish action.

The next day she had a long private interview
with Chatham, understood and uninterrupted by

the family, during which she shed tears, and he
grew angry, because she would not come to a decision.
It was interrupted by the indefatigable
doctor, who had come regularly twice a day to see
his patient, and under whose surveillance Chatham
was beginning to be really ill. After his departure
Chatham went to see his grandmother, who drew
from him, gently and judiciously, all his feelings
for Anna. She saw that he was sincerely attached
to her, and she did not reproach him for his attachment,
or try to turn his mind from it by useless
argument upon its folly. She listened, and having
heard him to the end, she, to his surprise, simply
asked him to ring the bell. When her maid
came, she bade her ask Miss Burton to be kind
enough to come to her. Anna appeared immediately,
and blushed and hesitated as she saw Chatham.


Come in, my dears said the Countess, looking
kindly at her. " But no ; perhaps you will first
tell Georgiana that I want her."

Anna obeyed, and soon returned with that lady.

Come here !" said the Countess to Anna, pointing
to the low stool at her feet, on which she had
been once before seated ; ' I have something to say
that nearly concerns you all. I am an old woman,
and cannot, in the course of nature, be long in this

world ; it would not have surprised me, had you
and Chatham, reckoning upon my probable decease,
and the five hundred a year that must come to
him at that period, become secretly engaged to one
another ; neither would it have surprised me, had
you wished for my death. I feel assured, on the
contrary, that you would both rather keep me in
this world, and be poor yourselves, than lose me ;
because I believe you both love me.

' Yes ! oh, yes ! yes \" murmured Chatham and
Anna in a breath.

' Years ago, Chatham, your mother was sacrificed
to Mammon. God only knows the anguish
my great error has caused me ; your father broke
her heart. I have vowed before God, that if I
could repair that error, or make any amends for
it in this world, I would do so. I never thwarted
the inclinations of my other child, and she, thank
God, was happy in her married life. It seems tome
now that, before I die, I may, in some sort,
repair even to her my blindly-committed sin. If
I can make you, her only child, happy, I shall die
more at peace with myself, and shall believe that
she will accept the reparation. Instead then of
waiting until I die, for the small fortune that must
come to you, I desire that you shall receive it
at once, and, under my sanction, take Annabella

Burton for your wife. Stop ! do not thank me
yet; I have more to say. You are both young,
inexperienced, and careless of money ; the income
you will have will not allow of any extravagance,
and, unless Mr. Michelson relent, you are never
likely to have it increased. You must therefore
bear in mind that I give it you with the full expectation
that you will live within it, and keep out of
debt ; if you are happy, I am content." Here the
Countess put her hand on Anna's head, who was
sobbing audibly. " This child will require thoughtful
and loving treatment, Chatham ; she and you
are both undisciplined : you must help to discipline
one another. Never allow coldness to estrange
you. If you commit faults, which you surely will,
do not conceal them from one another. Your dispositions
are such, that you would soon be alienated
if the ill wind of deceit blow upon you. Remember
the homely proverb,  Avoid the first word.'
It is the first word that leads to the second and the
third, as it is the first step in everything that leads
to consequences. I think I know you both well ;
and, with much that is good and amiable, you have
much that, indulged, may make you unamiable
and wretched. Help one another ; God will help
those who, in the married state, help each other.
May He bless you both ! and, when I am gone to

my rest, may you have reason to bless my memory
for helping to bring you together !"

The tears stole down the cheeks of the aged
Countess, as she concluded her address j and when
Chatham went to Annans side, and knelt down at
his grandmother's feet, she put her hand on his
head, and with patriarchal simplicity, again prayed
to God to bless both her children. Anna was
sobbing aloud, and ejaculating, " I do not deserve
it j it cannot be ; I am not worthy ; you do not
know'' as she hid her face in the Countess's lap.
Chatham's heart was too much touched to allow of
his uttering words; but when he rose from his
knees, he put his arms round his grandmother's
neck, and, whilst he kissed her tenderly, let his
grateful but still manly tears fall on her cheek.

Meanwhile, the Lady Georgiana drew near to
the sobbing Anna, and stooping over her, whispered
again in her ear an entreaty for forgiveness
for her unkind words of the previous day.

It is I, it is I," still sobbed Anna, " who must
ask forgiveness : I do not deserve it ; I cannot bear
this kindness."

Who has not found kindness harder to bear
than unkindness, as Anna did ? She could utter
no thanks ; she could not even raise her head to
her friend and benefactress : she could only shed

tears at her feet, in token of the gratitude she felt ;
and when they gently led her to her room, and
left her alone there, still she wept as she had never
wept before. Joy, sorrow, remorse, a sudden consciousness
of her own feelings, and of the weight
of undeserved benefits cast upon her, all made her
feel that intense pain in pleasure, which is more
difficult to bear than actual grief. Happy she
must soon have been, had not the recollection of
Nelson haunted her at every moment. Alas ! soit
ever is ! the one dark shadow of evil must overcast
the good. If we have permitted ourselves
one bad action, one deceit, one glaring ingratitude,
it is when we are happiest that it comes between
us and our joy, to embitter the present, and darken
the past. Had not Anna been weak and false
enough to engage herself to one she did not love,
she would not have been called upon to break her
engagement, and would now have been the happiest
of human beings in the love of Chatham, and the
friendship and approbation of his relatives. But
one spot was on the snow ; one cloud on the sun ;
one blight upon the flower.

CHAPTER XXVII.

I never saw a bridal but my eyelid hath been wet ;
And it always seem'd to me as though a joyous crowd were met
To see the saddest sight of all, a gay and girlish thing
Lay aside her maiden gladness for a name and for a ring."

Gr. M. Fitzgerald.

Anna has behaved very dishonourably, and very
iU," said Pynsent Burton to his sister Jessie ; ' look
at her conduct in whatever light you will, it cannot
be made clear or cleans

We are all faulty, Pynsent," said Jessie, " and
poor Anna was never strong at overcoming her inclinations,
whatever they may be ; but she is your
sister, and you, as her natural guardian, must acta
brother's part by her'

I should be sorry to consider myself her guardian,
Jessie," said Pynsent, shrugging his shoulders,
' or to have the weight of her indiscretions upon
me : I am glad I am not her godfather."

But, Pynsent, you must, if only out of respect
to those who have so nobly acted by her, accept
this invitation : you must go to her wedding."

How can I countenance the marriage of one
who has jilted my dearest friend and probably
made him miserable and certainly made him a
misanthrope for Use ? I tell you, Jessie, that Nelson
will never recover the shock he has received.
He shuns me as if I was some wild animal. He
has never been here since the fatal letter. He
scarcely speaks to his own father; and, although
two months have elapsed since it took place, he
looks as ill and wretched as he did the first night."

' I know it ; at least I can guess it-all, Pynsent,"
said Jessie with tears in her eyes, ' still we must
do our duty by Anna. It must not be said that
our sister was allowed to be married amongst
strangers, and none of her own family there to
countenance and support her. I knew she never
loved Nelson, and, believe me, it is all for the best ;
she would have made him miserable."

I know that, and I know that he was a fool
to think of her ; but I saw he conceived a passion
for her  I cannot suppose it was love  from the
first evening that he saw her after his return. I
wish to heaven she had been as ugly as sin."

She is what God made her, Pynsent, and when
married, will, I hope, be prudent and happy."

Then Captain Michelson must rule her with a
rod of iron," exclaimed Pynsent.

Oh, Pynsent ! you always mistake Anna ; she
is only to be led by kindness ; and I am thankful
to say, Captain Michelson is most gentle and kindhearted.
But, the wedding ! It is impossible forme
to go alone, who never travelled in my life. It
is evident that the Countess and her daughter are
bent on my being present, and on having as many
of her family as possible. You are most especially
invited by all parties. Nothing can exceed the
interest the family take in Anna ; and the letter of
the Countess to me, in which she insists on defraying
all the expenses of my journey, is most considerately


Humph V' said Pynsent,  I suppose we can
raise a ten-pound note for this purposes

"Not so easily, Pynsent, since you know how
difficult it is to raise Anna's thousand pounds ; and
we are both agreed in resolving that she shall have
it."

Assuredly ! My father willed it, and, thank
goodness, we have never touched the money laid
by from year to year, ever since his death, for the
accumulation of that sum. Michelson has behaved
very handsomely in refusing it, but, small as it is,
she must have it, even though we starve for it."

We shall not be able to reduce Mr. Skinner's
debt this year," said Jessie : " the hundred pounds

we have saved for him must go towards Annans
thousand. How fortunate it is, that Captain Burford
was such a careful man himself, and, at the
same time, so interested in us, that he began at
once to lay by for these portions !"

'captain Bedford is one in a thousands said
Pynsent. " He, too, despite his joy at the match
being broken off, is very unhappy about Nelson.
I fear they have quarrelled, and unless something
occurs to reconcile them, will part unpleasantly."

'' Part V echoed Jessie.

"Yes, I have just heard that Nelson is determined
to return at once to India."

So much the better ! " said Jessie ; " as long
as he is here he will only mope and be morose,
but, actively employed, he may be better."

And you say this ?" asked Pynsent in astonishment.


"Certainly," replied Jessie, colouring. "But
let us return to Anna. The Countess says she
trusts as many of her relations as possible will be
present at the wedding, particularly her eldest
brother. What an angel that old lady must be !
She acts upon what I have so often thought, and
says that she prefers making two people happy
during her lifetime, to letting them wish for her
death."

I wish I had such a grandmothers said Present
solemnly. " Do you think I could persuade
Aunt Betsey to such a sacrifice ?

"You are so foolish, Pynsent. Will you persuade
yourself to sacrifice your own unkind feelings,
and go with me into Wales ?"

Do you think there is any chance of this angel
of a Countess giving up her other five hundred a
year to her daughter? and finally, do you think
the Lady Georgiana will marry me ? The daughter
of an earl ran away nth a young doctor the
other day, and why should not I be one of Fortune's
favourites? I will send to London for a
suit of ncAV clothes upon the chance, and come
out in boots no bigger than a Chinese lady's.
By the bye, Jessie, it is nothing but tight boots
that caused Miss Maxwell's lameness. What with
tight stays and tight boots, we shall not have a
young lady left to console us for the ills of life.
I mean to write a treatise  "

Now, Pynsent, be serious : will you go to
Anna's wedding ?"

Of course he will !" shouted Captain Burford,
entering suddenly ; " I would go myself if it wasn't
for Nelson. I really do not know what is the
matter with the lad, and, by Neptune, I am come

VOL. II, M

to make a clean breast of it, and show you the
head and tail of my offending

Head and fronts suggested Pynsent.

"It's all the same/ growled the Captain; "affront
would be better still. There now, let me
sit down first, and spread out my sails a little'*

"Tails," again suggested Pynsent, "coat-tails,
just as the ladies spread out their dresses."

"It is a long yarn, but I shall be better when it
is spun. When that confounded little jilt of an
Anna wrote that letter. Nelson and I were sitting
very cozily over the fire. I was making a conscience
to myself to try to speak cheerfully about
his marriage with Anna, and from the wrong side
of my mouth bawling out a few lies ; because you
you know very well, Jessie, that I always meant
him for you  but that's over, I'm afraid. Nelson
was very merry, and seemed pleased at my having
taken this turn. The truth was, I saw it was no
good to keep to the other tack, so I shifted. He
was getting confidential, and we were better friends
than we had been for some time. Down came the
postman's rap louder than usual. I suppose Unexpected
a letter, for he jumped up and answered
the door himself. I knew by the joy on his face
that it was from Anna. He sat down and opened
the letter. I watched him as he read it, feeling

angry that a mere child should have been able to
obtain such power over a steady grave fellow. I
watched him anxiously enough as he read on ; for
such a change in a human countenance I never
remember to have seen. First he became as pale
as death; then he knitted his brow and pressed
his teeth and lips closely together ; and finally, he
seemed as if every muscle of his face became contracted.
When he had read to the end, he turned
the letter and began it again, as if to make sure
of its contents. But I could bear it no longer,
seeing his face grow darker and darker every moment.
' For Gods sake, what is the matter, Nel?'
said I. He did not answer. I spoke to him
again; but he only shook his head, covered his
forehead with his hand, and read on. When he
came to the end of the letter again, he groaned
slightly. ' Nelson, for Gods sake, what is the
matter ?' said I. He put the letter into my hand,
and sat watching me in turn, whilst I read it;
which I did as well as I could, for it was vilely
written. I suppose the joy I felt, when I found
that Anna had fairly broken off the engagement,
must have been visible on my countenance. You
know, my dear, I could not pretend to be sorry
when it was the happiest thing that could have
happened to me  so I thought at least. I believe

M 2

I made sundry ejaculations as I proceeded such
as ' Quite right ! when she said she had done
wrong to accept him ; ' Little flirt! little jilt!' when
she said her affections were another's ; ' Pshaw !
nonsense!' when she spoke of Nelson's feelings;
and  The deceitful little baggage !' when she alluded
to her own. But the truth was, I was
downright overjoyed at the letter, and when I
had spelt it through, I could not help shouting
 Hurrah, boys !' or some such thing, and getting
up and going across to Nelson, and holding out
my hand to shake hands with him, saying, ' Bravo,
Nel ! now you see I was right !' Deuce take it,
why did I think of right or wrong at such a time ?
but we are always so glad to find ourselves right.
She isn't worth a thought,' said I ; ' Jessie is
worth a hundred of her. You'll be very glad by-and-by.
Shake hands, boy, and let us be friends
again.' But he did not shake hands. He looked
at me as if he thought I was a demon, and said
with a voice as hoarse as a wolf's, father, are
you a brute?' and, snatching up the letter, went
out of the room. Now those words, ' Father, are
you a brute V have haunted me ever since. I
can't forgive them. They are the first ill words
he ever said to me, God knows ; but I shall never
forget them. 'A brute!' I, who have thought of

nothing but his good all his life and only rejoiced
about Anna because I knew it was best for him.
Wells we have scarcely spoken since that day indeed
we seldom meet. He looks ill and wretched,
and mopes and frets, I am sorry for him, but
cannot get over those words. He doesn't think
about them, I dare say, only of Anna. He has
been away twice, and this morning is gone again.
He left word that he should be back in a few days,
and told me abruptly at breakfast  the only words
he spoke  that he should return to India in about
six weeks. I made no reply. I tried, but ' the
brute' stuck in my throat. He ought to apologize
for such a speech. He must : I can never have
any pleasure with him again till he has ; and I am
sure T have no pleasure in myself, or anybody else,
whilst he is making up his mind. He looks so ill,
it is dreadful to see him. I could never have
believed that a woman could have made such
work with a sober, sedate fellow like Nelson , but
women are at the bottom of all the mischief that
ever was done in the world, from its foundation to
the present time ;  from Mother Eve to Daughter
Anna they are all alike, and men are their dupes
and victims. You are an exception, you know,
Jessie; I always look upon you as a pattern to
your sex. And now, little counsellor, what are

we to do with Nelson? Pynsent what is your
opinion ?"

'' That I could not have believed it possible that
Nelson could have been such a fool \" growled
Pynsent. " He must get over it soon ; he has too
much good sense to allow a disappointment of this
kind to prey upon his mind."

"I am afraid," said Jessie, 'that he has too
much feeling to allow him to forget it."

 But the question is, what are we to do to set
him and me to rights again?" asked the Captain.
'' I shall leave it to you, Jessie, and I will abide
by whatever you advise. Height ! who would
have thought that such a dutiful boy could ever
have called his father a brute ?"

"But my dear Captain Burford," said Jessie
gently, " you must think of the provocation. Nelson
had been already injured past endurance, and
then you, by seeming to rejoice in his pain, put
the finishing stroke to his distress."

Fiddlestick's end, my dear ! He must have
known that I was not rejoicing in his pain, but
merely in his having got rid of a matrimonial
engagement that I did not consider suitable for
him. Anna was just as much calculated to make
him happy, as the King of the Cannibal Islands
would be to make her happy, or as he would be to

make her happy ; and if he hadn't been worse than
intoxicated all the time, he would have known it.
Et tu Brute ! Just read Csesars dying words 
Brute instead oi Brutus  and you will have Master
Nelsonss apostrophe. I know he thought me a
brute when he said so.

It was only the excitement of the moment'
said Jessie ; " and think what he must have felt, to
be so aroused'

Very well, my dear ; I leave it all to you. You
must see what can be done to bring us together ;
but remember, I make no concessions. There is
one comfort, when one thinks that Will be all the
same a hundred years hence. And now Pynsent,
my boy, you must absolutely go to Annans wedding
: your father's daughter shall not be married
without the countenance of her relations'

"But I should not know what to do amongst
all those grand people. I assure you, Captain, I
should feel like the cOw in the china-shop, or the
pig in the drawing-room,  very ill at my ease."

Not more so than I," suggested Jessie. " The
very words * Countess' and lady Georgiana'
make me tremble : I am sure I shall not know
how to behave. You must go, if only to support
me."

"Uncle Timothy will support you," said Present

; " but I could no more witness Anna's marriage
with Captain Michelson after lier conduct to
Nelson than I could  what simile shall I bring?
you's with old Skinner'

You do not mean seriously to declare that you
will not accompany me into Wales?" said Jessie
in alarm.

"I would do anything in the world for you,
Jessie," replied Pynsent; "and if you are really
afraid to travel alone, I will go to the town with
the unpronounceable name and ten consonants,
that Anna designates sour post town,' with you;
but you must then excuse my going further. Remember
my patients."

"That would be adding insult to injury," said
Jessie, looking vexed. " I always knew you were
obstinate and determined, but I never thought you
absolutely cruel and unkind before."

"There is the misfortune of boys being left
young with nobody to control them," said Captain
Burford. " Pynsent has had too much of his own
way all his life, and now he is as pig-headed as I
am, who was left just similarly circumstanced."

You may pull me to pieces, or make mince of
me between you," said Pynsent, " but all the abuse
you can utter will not make me go to Anna's wedding.
I love her, and would do all in my power

to serve lier, but I will not compromise with conscience
: I do not approve of lier conduct, and I
will not countenance it/

I hope you will never have children, Pynsent/
said Jessie ; " you would make a severe fathers

You need not trouble yourself about that, my
dear, for I never mean to marry. You and I will
live together as old bachelor and old maid, without
interlopers."

Pynsent remained firm in his resolution. Jessie
exhausted all her stock of ill-temper and teasing
upon him in vain. Aunt Betsey was vituperative,
Uncle James argumentative, Captain Burford authoritative,
but Mr. Pynsent continued obstinate.
Jessie therefore, with much inward perturbation,
started alone.

As she had never been more than twenty miles
from home in her life before, the journey was a
nervous matter, and the preparations for the visit
to the grand place had been nervously made. She
was met on the road by her Uncle Timothy, who
came laden with presents for the bride elect. He
was most anxious to learn the particulars of Annans
change of bridegrooms, hadng heard of her engagement
to Nelson; but Jessie smoothed the
matter over as well as she could, and good simple
Uncle Timothy contented himself with a shake of

M 3

the head and an ejaculation that young people
seldom knew their own minds.

They were most hospitably received at Plas
Ayron, where they found every one engaged in preparations
for the weddings which was to be quiet,
but in all things suitable. Jessie and Anna met in
great embarrassment: neither knew what to say.
Jessie did not like to make Anna unhappy, therefore
concealed her own feelings ; and Anna felt so
much like a culprit when she was alone with her,
that she scarcely dared to show any feeling at all.
By mutual consent they avoided speaking of Nelson,
although Jessie at least thought of no one
else. Anna felt and knew the reason of her
brother Pynsents absence, and was more hurt by
it than she cared to acknowledge, though she was
aware that she deserved it. The Countess told
Jessie that she did not think her sister was in
such good spirits as, under all the circumstances,
she might have been. Jessie excused her by saying
that excitable people often became depressed
under great happiness. She felt as if she was acting
or countenancing a falsehood by not avowing
the true cause of Anna's depression. The Countess
also said that she had made it a matter of favour
with Anna to be married at Plas Ayron, because
she wished to be an eyewitness of her happiness

and that of her nephew. Both the Countess
and Lady Georgiana were charmed with the simplicity
and good sense of Jessie and the old-fashioned
politeness and gentlemanlike bearing of
Uncle Timothy. The latter was visiting Lady
Georgians sick people the very day after his arrivals
and making great friends with Violet and Rose,
to whose especial care he was consigned. The
wedding was to take place on the third day.

Captain Michelson and a brother officer Colonel
Campion arrived the evening previous to the event.
A select party of neighbours were invited to the
breakfast, and all was conducted according to the
strictest notions of propriety and etiquette. It
must not be forgotten that the Countess had
written to Mr. Michelson, informing him of all
that she intended to do, and, in a civil way, soliciting
his countenance. As may be imagined, Mr.
Michelson's reply to her letter was harsh and unkind,
 that is to say, harsh and unkind in reality,
but most smoothly worded. He said that as Chatham
was marrying contrary to his wishes, he could
not be expected to countenance his union. He
wished him well, and hoped he would be happy,
but as an undutiful son he feared no blessing could
rest upon him. The Countess tore his letter indignantly
to pieces, and thereupon comforted her conscience

by thinking that such a father could not be
included in the Fifth Commandment.

A word of the wedding we must say , because
everybody likes to hear of weddings. It was a
beautiful April day, and the sun shone, and soft
breezes blew on it, despite the misdemeanours of
the bride. The . greatest beauty-sceptic in the
world could not have denied the extreme loveliness
of Anna in the-white veil and orange wreath. She
was attired in every way befitting the granddaughter
of a Countess. But who could have
thought of the attire when gazing on the face and
form beneath? Everybody said that Anna was
born to be a queen, so regally she looked. Jessie
had a wee bridesmaid on each side, the little Violet
and Rose, and Uncle Timothy gave the bride
away, and seemed pleased and cheerful.

The rustic church in the park, with its white,
flower-planted graves, and ivy-covered arches,
was just the place for such a wedding The Lady
Georgiana's school-children were in attendance,
strewing flowers, according to the most approved
custom, and there were triumphal arches at every
hundred yards. An old friend of the Countesses,
a dignitary of the Church, performed the ceremony,
and was heard to declare afterwards that he had
never married so handsome a couple. Anna behaved

with the utmost self-possession. She looked
flushed, hut shed no tears. Jessie, on the contrary,
wept copiously, as did the little bridesmaids ;
wherefore, they scarcely knew ; but I imagine because
there is something so sacred and solemn in
the marriage ceremony, and so grave in the union
of two human beings " till death them do part,"
that it affects even the young and thoughtless.

That Chatham and Anna were supremely happy,
no one could doubt; still, when they visited the
aged Countess in her boudoir, and received her
affectionate embrace and blessing as man and wife,
their feelings overcame them. But it was not until
Anna found herself alone with Jessie during the
interval allowed for a change of attire that she
entirely gave way. Then, clasped in the arms of
that mother-sister, she sobbed convulsively. Why ?
it may be asked. Because she was about to part
with her for years, and perhaps for ever ; and because
she knew that she had come between her and
her happiness.

"Jessie, dearest Jessie," she sobbed, "can you
forgive me? Now, before I go away, let me tell
you that I know I have been selfish, wicked, ungrateful;
that I have destroyed your happiness,
and ruined that of Nelson. Without me you would
both have been happy. If you can, tell him that

I am conscious how ill I have acted : not in breaking
off the engagement,  that was right ,  but informing
it. Tell Pynsent that I feel that he was
just in refusing to come; but oh, not kind, not
brotherly. You are the only one true and good,
and forgiving and angelic, amongst us. May God
bless you, Jessie, darling, darling sister ! If I had
been always with you, I might have been good. It
is the consciousness of so many undeserved benefits
that makes me wretched. Had you all been
unkind, had I been justly punished for my deceit,
I could have borne it ; but to be happy beyond my
most sanguine wishes makes my heart ready to
burst. Pray for me, Jessie, and write  write. I
will try to be worthier of you than I have been."

Jessie held her sister to her heart, and wept with
her. She could only murmur, " I  I have nothing
to forgive ; God bless you, Anna !" and offer
up silent prayers that she might be led to find that
peace and strength of mind which the Spirit of God
alone can bestow.

No one was surprised at the traces of tears and
agitated manner of Anna when she made her appearance
below, in her travelling dress. Everybody
knew that she was about to part from a dear sister
and kind friends, and would have wondered if she
had not wept.

Just before the carriage came round that was to
convey the '' happy couples on a short tour through
North Wales, previously to their final settlement
in or near barracks  if, indeed, you can call such
a settlement final  Chatham put a sealed packet
into Jessiess hand, saying, that it was a little joint
remembrance from him and Anna, and that she
must not open it until they were gone. They departed
amongst the cheers of the servants, and the
blessings and good wishes of the family and guests.
Jessie was obliged to retire for a few moments, to
dry her eyes, and conquer her rebellious feelings.
She opened the packet, and therein found the
clOOO in bank-notes, that she had brought with
her as Annans dower, accompanied by letters from
Chatham and Anna, begging that it might be employed
towards paying off the remaining part of
the mortgage upon Fairfield. Chatham said that
he had burnt all the horrid law papers connected
with the money, and that no arguments or entreaties
should make him receive it again. Jessie could
not but feel grateful and glad at this act of munificence,
because it not only showed the affectionate
nature of her brother-in-law, but also enabled her
nearly to accomplish what she had been so long
struggling to perform.

Uncle Timothy left the following morning, but
Jessie remained a week at Plas Ayron, induced

thereto by the entreaties of her new friends who
had taken a great fancy to her. It was rumoured
amongst them that Colonel Campion who also
stayed behind, was more than half in love with
the unsophisticated Jessie, he having been heard
to say, that he had never met with so much simplicity
and good sense combined in any woman before.
He also greatly admired her clear, truthful
eyes, and repeated what had been said of her before,
that no man could possibly tell a lie in her
presence. When the Lady Georgiana hinted to
her Colonel Campion's admiration, and the barely
possible result, Jessie got into a great fright,
and in her usual straightforward manner assured
Lady Georgiana that she never meant to marry,
and should be greatly distressed if she thought
any one would ask her. She also managed  neither
she nor the Colonel knew how  to make him
fully understand something of the kind ; for if he
had conceived any serious intentions, he abandoned
them ; still affirming that she was the most
charming specimen of frankness and simplicity
he had ever beheld, and withal the most naturally
ladylike person, although devoid of the accomplishments
he had been accustomed to admire.

The Countess said of her, " If there were a few
more such girls in the world, to become wives and
mothers, what a different world it would become!

Chapter XXVIII.

They were dangerous guides the feelings  she herself was not

exempt 
Truly she herself had suffered  ' Perish in thy self contempt !'
Overawe it  lower yet  be happy ! wherefore should I care ?
I myself must mix with action, lest I wither with despair."

Tennyson.

Seated at her bureau, with a very unromantic-looking
ledger before her, Jessie found herself, a
few weeks after her return from the wedding, forgetting
her accounts, and soliloquizing something
after this fashion. It must not be supposed that
she spoke aloud, but her thoughts ran on in this
current : 

I must do something,  but what ? They must
not part in anger, and Captain Burford is evidently
growing more aggrieved every day. If Nelson
would come here ! But never to have seen him
since the letter, is worse than fifty painful interviews.
It used to be just the same when he was a
boy. He always moped, or as they called it, sulked,
until I reasoned with him gently; and then he

would soon see the right, and overcome his temper.
Can I not recall a thousand such instances, ever
since our earliest childhood ?  quarrels, above all,
with Pynsent, when neither would own himself
wrong, until I interfered, and brought both to their
senses ; and then they came to me to settle differences,
and consult upon plans. And now, to be
avoided, and perhaps dreaded ! But is he not as
dear, or dearer to me than ever ? Do I not know
that his heart is the firmest and truest in the
world ? and shall I let it break, or corrode without
an effort to save ? Shall pride, or false shame, or
fancied delicacy, prevent my seeing whether the
old influence is quite gone ? What if he knows
that I love Mm ? I love his father; I love Present
; I love others : they know it ; I do not mind
their knowing it; why should I fear his knowing
it : I who have been called his little wife  his
sister  alternately, for years and years ? We can
never be more to one another now, than we are,
and have been. May I not still be the true friend,
the tender sister? But what would the world
think ? what would he think ? What matters it,
if my own conscience is clear ? Is life long enough,
or its duration secure enough, to waste it in these
vain cavils ? I am sure that we ought to do all the
good we can in this world ; and there cannot be a

greater good than to reconcile a father and son,
and to raise np a drooping spirit ;  but I  can I
do this ? With Gods help, I can ; at least, I can
try. He must not go away from amongst us without,
at least, having kindly feelings towards us.
Scarcely more than a twelvemonth ago he returned
so happy : and now to go back to India so miserable
! And they talk of war in India. Perhaps
he may never see us again. His father ! he would
never forgive himself. At least I will try. May
I have courage given me for the attempt, and
words put into my heart to speak V

And so Jessie rose from her bureau, closed her
ledger, and shut it in. Then she put on her bonnet
and shawl, her heart beating and her hands trembling
as she did so. This accomplished, she went
to Aunt Betsey, and begged her to detain Captain
Burford when he came in from his walk with Uncle
James, until she came home from the town, whither
she was going. Finally, she called her dog, Sandy,
the terrier Nelson had given her, and they set out
together.

In due course of time they reached Captain Bur-fords
house, the street-door of which being open,
Jessie went in without ringing. She stood sometime
in the hall, endeavouring to collect her
thoughts, and to arrange the long speeches she had

been composing on the road ; but they seemed all
to have vanished from her mind. Her little terrier
grew very impatient, and began to snap and bark,
and tug at the skirt of her dress, and to make so
much noise that he evidently caused some one to
open the library door and look out. This was Kelson,
who, perceiving Jessie, appeared astonished,
and seemed, for a moment, uncertain as to the
propriety of retiring again. They advanced to meet
each other however, shook hands, and went into
the library. Neither of them spoke, but fortunately
the delight of Sandy at seeing Nelson, rendered
words unnecessary. He first began a series
of leaps that demanded attention, and finally a
succession of barks ; and then an attack upon
Nelson's boot, that used to be a favourite amusement,
and was now a very fortunate accomplishment.
At last he ceased his gyrations, and retired
to Jessie's side, who had been engaged in studying
the painful alteration of Nelson's face. She could
scarcely have believed that a few months without
actual disease, could have so changed the human
countenance. It was not pallor, or emaciation,
but its dark, morbid, forbidding expression. Jessie
felt a sudden fear of Nelson. The stern brow, in
which there seemed to be a resolution to suppress
mortified feeling ; and the rigid mouth where pride

and reserve blended appeared at once to repel all
human love and sympathy. She tried once or twice
to speak, but could not , and it was well for her that
Nelson occupied himself with the dog. At last
the silence became so awkward that Jessie said the
very thing she ought not to have said, and which
she felt to be a deceit, which was 

Where is your father ? ''

I do not know," was the reply.

The voice was as much changed as the face.

There was another pause, which Nelson broke.

Will you not sit down and rest, Jessie?"

The little word  Jessie  brought a sudden flush
to her cheek, and almost a tear to her eye.

"Thank you. What warm weather it is for
May !" she said, by way of saying something.

"Very," said Nelson, "it is quite summer."

What a blessed scapegoat that weather is !
With a weight of love, anguish, anxiety, counsel
and strong, vehement speech, lying on the heart,
and ready for the lips, two friends, whose very
life, perhaps, depends on the words spoken, begin
to talk of the weather. Who has not often wished
the weather at New Zealand, yet, like Jessie, felt
it impossible to call up any other subject ?

"I think we shall have thunder," said Jessie,
hating herself for her folly.

There does seem to be a good deal of electricity
in the airs replied Nelson.

Another pause, and Jessie stooped to stroke and
quiet Sandy ; whO;, not liking the unusual silence,
was beginning to fidget with the skirt of her dress
again.

''You return to India next week? suggested
Jessie with a trembling voice.

I sail next weeks said Nelson, with a slight
emphasis on the word ' sail.' He had rather a
habit of quietly correcting errors in speaking, and
his doing so now gave Jessie courage. She smiled.

I do not know what your father will do when
you are gone," she said.

Very well, doubtless," replied Nelson gravely ;
and an additional shade fell on his face.

Another pause. Was this Nelson ? Jessie asked
herself. Assuredly not the Nelson she had known,
therefore she could have nothing to do with him ;
still she must not give him up, for his father's
sake.

"Nelson!" she ejaculated softly, glancing into
his face.

Well, Jessie !" he replied, avoiding a second
encounter of the truthful eye. Like Homer, we
must keep to our distinguishing epithet.

You will not go away from us with unkind and

unfriendly feelings towards us V said Jessie, forcing
out the sentence as if each word was a leaden ball ;
but being much relieved when they were discharged.


Nelson was silent.

' You have been much aggrieved, Nelson : but
it should not quite break up the friendship of a
life, or  or  stifle the love of a son.

Jessie felt that she had fairly started, and trembled
all over. She waited to see whether her
words would produce any effect, but there was
none visibly.

Nelson, you will not go away in anger ?"

' Not with you," said Nelson ; " you could never
cause anger."

"But with others?"

"They are different."

For so many years  perhaps for ever ? Think,
Nelson. A time will surely come when you would
give all you possess in the world never to have said
such words. It must be bad to part from those
who are nothing to us in anger  but from those
who love us  "

Love us !" echoed Nelson, with an emphasis so
bitter that it made Jessie start ; " who loves us ?
Those who rejoice when we are most wretched, or
those who make us wretched ?"

Both  all. You cannot know how well, because
you will not."

"I judge by actions. I have been deceived,
laughed at, and insulted, by those who professed
to love me ; and I believe in the word no more."

"Will you permit me to say what I have at
heart, and forgive me if I wound you? and will
you believe that all I say is with a good motive,
and for your happiness and that of others ?"

Jessie, you alone of all the world may say what
you like to me, and feel assured that your motives
wil never be misunderstood by me : but if you
think to reconcile me to life, my friends, or myself,
you deceive yom-self."

"God forbid. Nelson!" said Jessie, the tears
starting into her eyes. " But to this love in which
you do not believe circumstances have blinded
your eyes. I must begin at the beginning, and
show you how you have deceived yourself. I must
wound you, or rather probe the wound, I hope the
better to heal it. Anna loved you, still loves you
as  as her own brother."

"Take care, Jessie!" interrupted Nelson; "remember,
you wake a fiend."

I know  I feel," said Jessie, frightened by his
manner, " but we cannot command our affections
in another sense."

Poor Jessie ! as she proceeded, lier own cheeks
grew crimson, and her voice faltered painfully.

Anna was young and heedless  she thought it
well to marry ; and she loved you  yes, but not as
she should have loved you to become your wife.
She found this out when too late, and in the impetuosity
of her feelings, wrote you that letter. I
do not exculpate her  she was wrong, very wrong :
but she knew that she was wrong, and confessed
and suffered for it.'

Suffered V' exclaimed Nelson bitterly ; " Anna
suffer ! She never thought of any one but herself,
and her own momentary gratification. Coquette !
jilt!"

 Yet she has suffered, and for your sake ! " said
Jessie gently.

I want no one to suffer for me, said Nelson
proudly. ' Let her be as happy as she may with
him she has chosen ; but I should feel insulted by
her thinking of me.

"Yet she begged me to entreat your forgiveness;
to assure you how conscious she is of her
ill-conduct, and to say she feels that she is not
worthy of you.

"I wonder you use that hackneyed phrase on
such an occasion. Who thinks of the relative
worth of the parties in such a case ? But she is

VOL. II. N

rights Jessie. A heartless jilt is worthy of no man
of honour and principle. 

Oh, Nelson ! think of the thoughtless child
you used to play with  the pride you used to be
amused with at nine years old, when you little
thought of these evil days  the merry hours we
had with her, when she made her early conquests
and do not be too hard upon her at nineteen,
whom you helped to spoil at nine."

' It is my own folly that I despise the most. To
love such a heedless, vain, deceitful girl ; to have
been taken by beauty and the fascination of manner,
and all the outward charms that my judgment
has always taught me to consider secondary : above
all, to have loved her so blindly, when I felt that
she did not care for me as I did for her ; I, who
had watched her greater love for another. Oh,
fool! madman!"

"But every one must love her. Nelson; she
was born for it : and do we not, instinctively, love
all that is beautiful ? The brightest, fairest flowers,
the most glorious sunsets, the most brilliant moonlights?"


No, I think not. I love the violet for its perfume
 I have always loved best the most quiet
and unpretending things, until now."

Here a quick new pang shot through Nelson's

heart. He remembered that he had once loved
Jessie ; that boyish, but true, holy feeling that had
been so much the best. He glanced at her as she
stood, agitated and pale, before him, and thought
of what had been. Jessie felt the look, and with
a quick perception of the truth, changed the immediate
subject of conversation.

"Your father is unhappy about you. Nelson,"
she said, more abruptly than she intended.

"Has he been complaining?" asked Nelson,
with the brow again knitting that had been less
overcast during the last few minutes.

"You know he always tells me everything,"
said Jessie simply.

Then you know that he rejoices at my pain,
and is angry at my feeling aggrieved. He is unnatural,
and I cannot believe he cares for me."

You must make allowances for his temper and
frame of mind : you always did before."

He was never heartless and cruel before."

He did not think Anna suited to you ; and he
felt a momentary pleasure at your being free from
her. But he heartily repents having let you perceive
it : indeed, indeed he does."

He is morose and sullen with me  scarcely
speaks to me  and yet you say he repents ! "

N-2

"Do you repent. Nelson? It is not for the
father to make excuses to the son'

Repent of what ?  of loving too blindly and too
well ? Yes, from the bottom of my heart, though the
love is still there, and will never be rooted out."

Jessie smothered a sigh as she said 

But your words ? was there nothing to repent
of in them  your own father ?"

What words ? we have scarcely spoken since."

The one involuntary exclamation, which seems
to have had such an effect upon him."

"I remember none  I made none. What do
you mean?"

Just as your father had read the letter, and
thoughtlessly shouted  Hurrah, boys ! ' which you
know is only a way he has  "

I assure you, Jessie, that I remember nothing
after that moment, except that I went to my room
and suffered more intolerable agonies than I ever
endured before. What does my father say ?"

That you refused his offered hand."

Of course I did ; was I to congratulate myself
on being made wretched ? What more ?"

And that you said, * Are you a brute, father ?'
looked at him as if you thought him worse than a
brute, left him, and have scarcely spoken to him
since."

Could I have said such a thing ? I assure you,
Jessie, it must have escaped in the agony of the
moment, as I am quite unconscious of having
spoken at all ; though I remember feeling much
hurt, and thinking my father worse than cruel."

I thought so," said Jessie, relieved of a weight
of uncertainty, but your father,  he heard you
say the words, and does not know but that you
meant them."

And so I undoubtedly did, little thinking that
I had given utterance to my feelings ; and I still
say that he was unkind and unnatural."

But he did not intend to be so. Nelson ; he
says he did not, and you must not leave him under
the impression that he did ; nor must you leave him
with the notion in his mind that he has an unnatural
son ; it would make him wretched for life."

I have no desire to do so; but I am in no
mood to conciliate, or enter upon long explanations."


"May I not say something for you? I have
done so before successfully ; for your father always
listens to reason."

"To your reason, Jessie; who would not? because
you have always justice and charity on your
side. You may say what you like ; I know you
will neither say too much nor too little."

"It is only needful to speak the truth in this as
in all other instances' said Jessie ; " truth is always
best in the end'

It is a pity that everybody does not speak it
as boldly, yet as gently, as you do V said Nelson,
the deep shadow again falling on his face : " how
could two sisters be so different ?"

"Anna would not tell a lie' said Jessie quickly.

But she will act one' said Nelson. " However,
Jessie, you have taken some trouble, and I
know put yourself into an unpleasant strait to dome
a service, simply because you thought it right.
I will say one thing to you : I am more to blame
than Anna in this matter; I knew that she did
not love me ; I knew that a reserved, steady, unattractive
fellow, such as I am, was unfit for a
sparkling, accomplished, lovely creature, like Anna;
just as much so as her giddiness, coquetry, and
love of admiration were unsuited to me ; yet I was
selfish fool enough to take advantage of her evidently
temporary rupture with another and more
attractive lover, to press my suit. I saw she accepted
me because she wanted to be free from
teaching ; I knew that you perceived that she did
not care a straw for me : I was aware of it all, but
I resolutely blinded my eyes, and closed up my
ears, to prevent myself from seeing and hearing

more ; and to try to shut out what I had already
seen and heard. I did so ; how, Heaven knows.
I was happy,  madly happy ; and now the blind is
taken from the eyes, and the wool from the ears,
and I am wretched in proportion. Her image
haunts me day and night, and will till I die. I
pray that I may get into battle as soon as I am in
India, to put an end to the torture."

Oh, Nelson ! is this you ?" said Jessie, greatly
shocked.

You would not have believed it, would you ?
Nor should I ; but so it is : I suppose we who
have not strong passions generally, are the most
torn by them, when they do take possession of us.
My whole mind has had a revolution, and will
never recover its equilibrium."

Do not say so," said Jessie ; " we are taught
where to find a cure in all diseases of the mind,
even more surely than in bodily ones. Do not
forget Him who will in no wise cast out those who
come to Him. Disappointments are sent us for
our good, to strengthen, not to weaken, the heart
and understanding."

jessie, reason and the Bible make me agree
with you, but my own will tmns me aside. I am
not, I fear, so religious as I was when I went into
the Army ; my faith has been shaken, I scarcely

know how ; and the Bible that my father gave me
has not been read as it ought to have been'

I have read in biographies of great and good
men Nelson, that the most pious and learned have
all passed through the same doubts and difficulties,
that have made of some men infidels. The difference
has been, I think, that the former have desired to
find the truth, and have prayed humbly for enlightenment
; whilst the latter have wished to find
the Bible a lie, and have read it without hope or
prayer, until they have believed what they wished.
When we forget to pray, and to put our trust
wholly in the Divine arm for guidance, it is allover
with us."

' I believe you are right, Jessie. The temptations
of the world draw us away from better things,
and infidelity creeps into the heart ; not that I aman
unbeliever  God forbid !  only my faith has
lost its vitality."

Pray !" said Jessie, tears starting into her eyes
in spite of her efforts to restrain them ; ' God's
Holy Spirit alone can wash out the stains that we
contract as we go through life."

If I could wash the last six or eight months
out of my life, there might be hope, but I have
none now," said Nelson, with such a gravity and
decision of manner as made Jessie shudder. But

one thing I will do, or rather you will do for me,
reconcile me to my father*

He is at Fairfield now," said Jessie.

 I think I would rather, if you would undertake
it, Jessie, that you should first explain matters
to him. If we enter upon the subject, he will at
once get warm, and we shall quarrel -, whereas, if
we meet and shake hands as usual, and say nothing,
all will blow over. Will you allow me to walk
with you?"

Jessie looked her permission ; and it was such a
pleased, glad expression that lit up her face that it
made Nelson sigh.

It was six or seven years ago when they last
walked alone from the town to Fairfield. Then,
almost boy and girl, they had been arm-in-arm,
gravely talking of Nelsonss future plans, and of
many things beyond their years; now, man and
woman, they walked side by side, but scarcely
spoke ; Nelson did not even offer his arm, and the
old reserve seemed to have come upon him with the
fresh air. Jessie longed to renew the subject that
they had been talking of so lately, but her courage
failed, when she perceived the gloom on Nelson's
face. Once more the state of the atmosphere became
the grand and engrossing topic ; and you
would have thought that those two human beings,

N 3

whose hearts were stirring with thoughts so deep
and painful, that they could scarcely endure them
alone, had no one idea in common, beyond the heat
and the cold, the sunshine and shadow; except,
perhaps, the little terrier, whose merits they discussed
by fits and starts. Oh! what an untold
multitude of hypocrites there are in this world !

As they got into the orchard, and drew near the
pigeon-house, some of the pigeons, perceiving Jessie,
flew towards her, and, as usual, perched upon her
shoulders, and hovered about her head. The old
sight recalled old times, and Nelson smiled, and
said it was refreshing to come to Fairfield, and see
everything so happy, and so much at home. The
old smile encouraged Jessie, and she suddenly felt
the weight rise from her heart, that had been
pressing it down during their walk.

'' I will go on first, she said, " and if you will
come in five minutes, I am sure all will be right."

She did so, and at the bottom of the orchard
met Captain Burford and Uncle James, who were
coming to look after her. She soon gave the
latter a commission to go and see an invalid cow,
and then lost no time in telling the Captain simply,
and in her own straightforward manner, what Nelson
had said.

Hang me, if I didnH think so !" shouted the

Captain. " Where is the boy ? Good bye, Jessie ;
God bless you, little peace-maker ! I must go and
make up with him directly. He doesnH know that
he called me a brute, and didn't mean it if he did.
All's right then : I was sure of it in my own heart,
but that cursed pride of mine, and of his through
me, did the business. Good bye, my dear. Hurrah,
boys ! there he is, by Jove ! Nelson, my dear boy !
did you come on purpose ? to be sure you did.
There : let us shake hands and be father and son
once more. I am sorry I was so thoughtless when
you were unhappy ; I know you didnH mean what
you said : it was all my fault, and I was a proud,
selfish old fool, thinking of nothing but my own

wishes, and of of Jessie a little perhaps.

But it is all over now. God bless you, Nel ! I hope
we shall all live to be happy yet. I am very sorry
that I hurt your feelings,  confound the feelings !
If we had no feelings, what steady-sailing crafts
we should be !"

 My dear fathers' said Nelson, as soon as he
had time to put in a word, "it is I who ought to
be ashamed of myself, for allowing my feehugs to
get the better of my duty and love to you. I beg
your pardon with all my heart, and hope nothing
may ever again cause a coldness between us."

As Nelson pressed his father's hand and bent

over it, tears came into the eyes of the old man ;
to conceal which he gave his son a slap on the
shoulder, and concluded with his favourite saying,
' 'Twill be all the same a hundred years hence."

"Where's Jessie? whereas the little peacemaker
?" he asked, after a short pause. " Flown,
I declare ! Come, Nel, let us follow her, and have
one more happy rubber at dear old Fairfield, before
you go to that confounded India. There never
was anybody like Jessie, and never will be, that's
a certain fact. She is as perfect as any one can be
in an imperfect world''

The father and son walked arm-in-arm into the
house, and they had one more happy evening at
Fairfield. Uncle James was there, and Pynsent ;
and Captain Burford so managed matters as that
he and Pynsent should be partners, and Uncle
James and Aunt Betsey their opponents. Now,
he was by no means a good manoeuvre, and Nelson
and Jessie, as well as the rest of the party, saw
through his ruse at once. Nelson was distressed
for a moment ; but Jessie, with that tact which in
some would be hypocrisy, but was in her delicacy,
soon put him at his ease. Seated as usual at her
little work-table, making and mending unknown
garments, she conversed with cheerfulness and good
sense. Nelson sat near her, and, for the first time

since he left England, they had a tete-astute evening.
He was led gradually to forget his griefs, and
to talk with tolerable energy on such topics as
Jessie began. She had read a great deal; and
when she actually gave herself up to entertain another,
could do so as well, or better, than many
more learned and accomplished women. Her natural
dignity gave one charm more to her simplicity
of character ; and Nelson found himself wondering
where she could have gathered so much information,
and the power of expressing it so well.
Neither by word nor action did she allow him to
suppose that he was more to her than the friend of
her childhood -, and as he was not a vain or conceited
man, he was happy in believing that she, at least,
was no sufferer by his late conduct. He knew well
that his father had always been talking to her of
him, and openly expressing his wishes concerning
both j therefore he had feared that she might have
given weight to such words. So Jessie was a hypocrite
after all ! How many such there are !

The evening came to a close, as such evenings
always do ; and one or two more similar ones had
also a like end. Nelson and Jessie had fallen into
a rather deep religious argument, in which not
only her speech, but her heartfelt prayers were involved,
and Nelson was the better for both. Although

quite as grave and cheerless as ever, and
his thoughts quite as much wrapped up in his
disappointment, he gave ear to Jessie, and was
glad to be near her, and to talk to her. The last
evening he again poured out some of his bitter
feelings against Anna, and again hoped that he
should soon be so engaged as to have an end put
to a life that had lost all its charm. He chanced
to look at Jessie as he spoke, and never afterwards
forgot the expression of intense pain that settled
on her countenance. He felt ashamed of himself
for having been weak and unmanly enough to pour
forth words that could have caused such an expression,
and would have gladly recalled whatever
could give a shadow of distress to one so good
and gentle. Had he ventured again to look into
her eyes when they parted that night, he might
have been still more forcibly struck. The hard
struggle to restrain the burst of grief that was
waiting to accompany the tears that fell from her
eyes worked unmistakably in her face, and moved
her features with a strange agitation. But Nelson
dared not look at her. He knew that he had been
false at heart to one true as the loadstone, and
that, whatever their respective positions, he had
scarcely been consistent, even in his friendship.
He could only press her hand firmly between both

of his , and say, " God bless you , Jessie ! take care
of my father." Had he seen her five minutes afterwards,
giving way to her last weakness, in an agony
of tears and prayers in her own room, alone and
on her knees, he might perhaps have known what
a treasure he had cast away from him, and have
been grateful at least for so pure a love.

And thus Nelson departed for the second time
for India, taking with him all his bitter feelings
and heavy disappointments, and leaving behind
him hearts that beat kindly and fondly for him,
without selfishness or mistrust.

CHAPTER XXIX.

How beautiful she look'd, as o'er her child
The youthful matron bent with tender care !
While the unconscious cherub's features smiled,

Reflecting back his mother's graces there :
How beautiful she look'd ! how more than earthly fair !

How more than beautiful doth beauty seem!

What homer garb can woman's graces wear !
Not Eve, when bending o'er her mirror stream,

In native innocence, could look more fair
Than the yoimg matron looks, tending her infant care. "

Nearly two years passed over quiet Fairfield unmarked
by any very wonderful event. All novelties
came to it in letters, and the postman occasionally
brought Jessie such as roused or depressed
her usually calm spirits, according to the nature
of their contents. She heard at various times the
histories of all dear to her, of whose happiness and
well-doing she thought much more than of her
own. Charles had gone to Italy to study, assisted
thereto by his uncles, and bearing with him letters
of introduction to men of talent, which were given
him by patients and friends of Mr. Timothy barnard.

Charleses communications from Italy were
of high interest and read, as may be supposed,
with considerable pleasure by the little party at
home. His soul was in his art, and he was truly
labouring on to perfection, and finding encouragement
and happiness. He once met Mr. Michelson
in a gallery at Rome, where he was studying, and
once in the studio of a friend. Mr. Michelson
had glanced over his shoulder in the gallery at his
painting, evidently without recognizing him, and
had requested to be introduced to the promising
young artist in the studio ; but upon hearing his
name, had without further remark bowed slightly,
frowned considerably, and shortly after left the
room. But Charles hoped to do well without patronage,
and was not sorry to be free from all obligation
to Mr. Michelson.

Then there arrived at Fairfield a rather brief
letter from Louisa Colville, giving the intelligence
of her intended marriage with a Colonel Marston,
a friend of her father's, whom she described as
brave and kind, and likely, her parents told her, to
make an excellent husband.

Pynsent's cynical remark on this news was 
Did I not tell you that all pretty young ladies
marry for the sake of marrying, or for rank, or
money ? Miss Colville was a pretty young lady.

with soft blue eyes, and of course she is doing the
same. School-misses, and all misses, are alike."

"And why should not Louisa marry?" asked
Jessie, feeling herself rather annoyed at her marrying
a man who was, from her own account, old
enough to be her father.

I am sure I can have no objection," said Present.
' Anna is married ; and I dare say, as Miss
Colville is the eldest, it is high time for her to
marry. She would have been quite passe in a year
or two. Is that the approved word, Jessie ? I am
getting up my French."

Jessie fancied she perceived a vein of bitterness
under Pynsent's raillery. If he had ever
liked any one girl better than another, she was
sure it was Louisa Colville ; and, in spite of his determined
mockery of all ladies below the sensible
age of forty, she knew that he admired her.

But in due course of time her marriage was announced;
and if Pynsent had ever thought seriously
of her, he was obliged to forget her now,
and stick more closely than ever to drugs and pillboxes.


The letters from Nelson to his father were few,
but affectionate. Brief and hurried, they usually
spoke of active and imperative military duties, frequent
engagements with the Natives, as precursors

of a decided war , and hopes that actual fighting
was at hand. He always desired every kind remembrance
to Jessie, little thinking of the anguish
his letters, and their breathing after warfare, caused
her. We must not forget to say that he was then
gazetted Captain.

Annans communications were the most satisfactory
and amusing, for a long time at least. Descriptions
of military men, military balls, military
admiration, and military fascination, ran through
them. She was evidently the idol of Chatham and
of all his friends. More spoilt than ever, Jessie
trembled for her. She entered with all her heart
into the pleasures of the life into which she was
cast, and Chatham seemed to rejoice in her success
in society, as fervently as a mother when she introduces
her eldest daughter. His scraps of notes
were eloquent of the praises of his wife, and of the
sensation she excited wherever she went. He declared
he was growing jealous; but Jessie perceived,
with thankfulness, that he was not jealous; she
saw however with anxiety, that although their income
was now very good, they must be abbacy
living beyond it. The presents they made lavishly
to each other; those frequently sent to Jessie,
against her earnest desire; Annans dress; Chathamss
stud ; the constant balls and parties,  all combined

to rouse her fears, and to make her caution them
both. They always took her cautions with the
most perfect good-humour, but laughed at them,
calling her their good, sensible, prudent little
housekeeper.

It was with the greatest delight that Jessie heard
of the birth of a son. If anything could make
both parents thoughtful and steady, it would be
this event. For a long time their letters were
filled with accounts of this child, who seemed to
engross every thought and desire of their hearts.
By degrees, pleasure and diversion divided their
attention with him, and it was again evident to
Jessie that they were amusing themselves at the
expense of prudence.

When they had been married about two years
came the astounding intelligence that Chatham s
regiment was ordered at once to India, and was to
sail almost immediately. Annans letter was so
hasty and incoherent, and so full of the war in
India, that little was to be gathered from it of
their immediate plans, and Jessie was for sometime
in great anxiety about them, as they did not
write very regularly.

One afternoon, as she was sitting alone with
Pynsent, talking of them, and undergoing a lecture
from him for what he called her needless fears.

a message was brought to her that she was wanted
at the gate. To her surprise she saw a chaise and
pair and pausing with a nervous dread of strangers
meditated a retreat. The door opened however,
and a lady descended, so she had no escape.

"Don't be frightened, Jessie, there is nothing
the matters' in wells-known, well-loved tones, and
in another moment she was clasped in Annans arms.

Before she had time to speak, Anna ran back to
the carriage, and received something from within.
This " something she brought to Jessie, and held
up nth a tearful look of love and pride. It washer
baby. Jessie took the child, and, as may be
supposed, was soon smothering it with kisses. The
nurse followed, and there was great commotion in
the little court, inasmuch as the baby began to
cry, and all were at once engaged in pacifying it.
Pynsent might have been seen peeping through the
window-blind, and wondering what it was all about.
Anna did apparently catch sight of him, for, forgetful
of old scores, she exclaimed, "Ah, Pynsent !'
and ran into the hall where he was.

I know you have forgiven me, she said, extending
two hands, and a most beautiful, beseeching
face to her brother.

He was not hard-hearted enough to resist it,
but with an exclamation of surprise, " Anna, can

it be you'' clasped the offered hands, and kissed,
warmly, the flushed cheeks. Instantly Anna was
in the passage again, and snatching her baby from
Jessie's arms, presented him to Pynsent.

He is to be your godson, Pynsent. His name
is Chatham Pynsent Michelson, and you are to be
very fond of him."

As Pynsent took the baby rather awkwardly,
Anna laughed and cried together.

There is Aunty ! and Uncle James ! together !
alone ! they must marry after all ! " she exclaimed,
as two passers-by darkened the window.

She was in the court again, her arms round both
alternately ; and then she dragged them into the
hall, to her baby. She insisted on Uncle James's
holding, and Aunt Betsey's kissing him, a ceremony
they performed even more awkwardly than
Pynsent had done.

Come in, Dinah ! and Will ! " she cried, as
she saw the two servants peeping in at the door.
"Come and see my baby;" and shaking hands
with both, she again took the redoubtable Chatham
Pynsent in her arms, and presented him inform.
The smart nurse looked rather alarmed, as
she saw her be-laced and be-cambridge charge
dandled by old Will, whose large, brown, earth-covered
hands were evidently better used to nursing

than those of any one else present ; a fact proved
by the instantaneous crowing and laughing of the
infant.

It was pleasant to see the graceful, elegantly-dressed
Anna, surrounded by that homely family
group in the old-fashioned hall, showing oiF her
beautiful baby. The young mother forgot everything
else in her pride and happiness. She could
answer no questions, make no inquiries, until everyone
had received and welcomed her baby; then
taking him again in her own arms, and bursting
into tears, she looked at Jessie, and said, as well
as her sobs would let her 

''I have brought him to you, Jessie. I am
going to India with my husband, and the doctors
say the climate would kill the baby. You must
take him, or he must go with us and die. I could
not give him to any one else, and I must go with
Chatham."

She looked, hesitatingly, round upon the assembled
friends and relations, who were taken somewhat
aback by this unexpected intelligence. All
but Jessie and old Wil hated babies, and they instantaneously
felt what an encumbrance one would
be at Fairfield. However Jessie put her arms
round Anna and her child, kissed both tenderly,
and said

We will settle this by-and-by. Baby and you
are both too tired to discuss anything now, so come
and take off your bonnet, and make yourself comfortable."


My dear Anna' began Aunt Betsey, when they
were all seated together after a late tea, " are you
sure that you can bear the climate of India yourself
? or is it right for a young woman to be going
out at such a time?"

"I am quite decided upon that head. Aunty.
Nothing should keep me in England whilst Chatham
is in India. He has wasted a waggon-load
of arguments upon me already, and we have quite
quarrelled about it, but he has failed of convincing
me. I am resolved to go with him, even if I must
take baby with me."

Headstrong as ever, Anna ! " said Pynsent,
looking with some degree of wonder at his beautiful
sister ; so self-possessed  so much a woman of
the world already  so conscious of her own power
she seemed to know that no one could deny her
anything. t

"Perhaps more so," she replied, "because I
have not my cross brother to put me out of conceit
with myself, and to thwart me. Chatham is
so kind, he spoils me. Oh ! you should know how
amiable he is ! But what am I to do with my

baby? I have only a few days to stay, and we
must settle about bim. Chatham objected to my
bringing him here because, he said, he knew you
would none of you like it, and it would be an imposition.
Then he wanted to write first, but I
could not be happy until I had settled the matter,
so I came straight, without any delays

It would be impossible for me to remain in a
house where there was a baby," said Aunt Betsey ;
it would quite disarrange all my habits and plans,
and destroy every domestic comfort."

Such a baby !" exclaimed Anna indignantly.
Your own grand-nephew ! how cruel ! I thought
you would have welcomed a child of mine with
delight."

Aunt Betsey did not quite like the idea of a
grand-nephew," as Anna called it : it sounded in
her ears like a grandson.

My dear!" said she stately, "when one has not
for years been accustomed to infants, it is impossible
to reconcile oneself to the discomfort of them.
I repeat, that I could not remain in the same house
with one."

Pynsent inwardly applauded her taste, but wondered
which would be the worst evil. Aunt Betsey
or the baby.

But Aunty," said Jessie, " I would take care

VOL. II. O

that you were not annoyed by the poor child. He
seems a very good quiet baby and such a darling."

I never saw a good, quiet baby yet, Jessie'
said Aunt Betsey, " and I am sure, to judge from
the noise I have already heard, Anna's is not an
exception. Why my head aches from it, and I
have been obliged to put cotton-wool in my ears,
which is by no means agreeable."

If you had asked me, I could have suggested
something more effectual," said Pynsent. 

'' I suppose, then, I must take my baby with me,
and let him run the chance of dying," said Anna,
her face growing very red. " I thought you would
all have taken him to your hearts for my sake, instead
of rejecting him in this way."

My dear, people should consider before they
try to palm off their babies on others. I suppose
there must be such things, but they are disagreeable
necessities, and parents should keep them out
of sight. Children begin to be endurable at five
or six years old, not before."

But you were fond of us. Aunty," said Jessie,
and always spoilt us. You doted on Anna as a
baby."

The case is different. You had no parents, and
I was under the necessity of seeing to you : but
pray do not argue the matter. Of course you can

keep the child, and I can procure another abode
elsewhere

Here Anna began to shed tears.

There is but one course to take, that I can see'
said Uncle James bluffly; ''one or other of the
parties had better come to the Grange. There are
rooms enough for a dozen nurseries and their
babies ; but if that won't do, they are all at the
service of Miss Burton."

' Rooms or nurseries ? " asked Pynsent.

Rooms, Sir'' replied Uncle James, blushing
like a very fall-blown rose, and looking very good-natured
and handsome as he did so.

Aunt Betsey blushed also, and murmured the
word '* propriety."

Jessie looked at the pair with amazement ; so
did Anna through her tears. Pynsent bit his lip
half through to keep from laughing.

We could easy make it proper enough" (Uncle
James was never quite clear about the distinction
of adjectives and adverbs) ; " if Miss Betsey will
take compassion upon the old Grange, there need
be no difficulty about Anna's poor little baby."

Could it be, the nieces and nephew asked
themselves, that Uncle James still had serious
thoughts of Aunt Betsey ? So unsuitable, so uncongenial,
so seemingly incongruous a match ? He

o 2

had never loved anybody else  that they knew ;
but that at the respective ages of sixty and fifty, he
should still preserve that love fresh enough to wish
to marry her, appeared impossible. Yet so it was.
Uncle James could find no fault in the woman he
had been attached to all his life. He still looked
upon her as the pattern of propriety, the pink of
sense, and the rose of beauty. What Miss Betsey
Burton had been more than thirty years ago, she
was still to him ; and to see her in state, knitting
in the large parlour of the Grange, instead of in
the small parlour at Fairfield ; to have servants to
wait upon her ; and still to preserve her in her original
condition of a lady of family, would have
made him a happy man for life. That this had
been always in his thoughts, nobody knew but
himself; and that, since the one rebuff', he had
never had courage to say it, nobody knew either.
But this sudden climax in the family politics seemed
to afford an opportunity for opening a window of
his long-shut heart; and he did it boldly. He
never could have ventured to do it alone with her ;
but there was safety and escape in numbers.

And Aunt Betsey ! alas for human pride and
human weakness ! She had given up all hopes of
Mr. Michelson, but she had still the old wish to be
married. She had never taken kindly to old-maids.

She had withered upon it : some people do,
with wiser heads than Aunt Betsey's ; more's the
pity. She who had been such a toast, such a
beauty ! to die single after all ! it was beyond the
strength of woman to endure cheerfully ; and she
never had endured it cheerfully. Of late she had
been civil to Uncle James and had thought him a
very fine man. She had considered also that the
Grange was a nice old place, and might be made a
country-seat of, and he a country gentleman, with
a little management. It was not such a place as
the Hall, certainly ; but it was not so bad. And
then, it might be better to be mistress there, than
maiden aunt at Fairfield.

Such thoughts had of late been flitting through
the mind of Uncle James and Aunt Betsey, and
the present division of family interests tended to
make them serious. Uncle James, having once
broached the subject, was resolved to go through
with it. He saw nothing ridiculous in the affair,
and was not, indeed, very susceptible of ridicule
himself. He knew how to give a joke and take
one, and he did not care a whit whether his nephews
and nieces laughed at him or not. So he
continued the conversation, to the infinite delight
of Pynsent, who inwardly wished him joy of Aunt
Betsey, if he got her.

' You see Maam/' he said, addressing Aunt
Betsey with all the features of his face except his
eyes, " the poor baby must be cared for, and you
don't take to it. I can say that I like the noise
of a baby myself ; and if it comes to the Grange,
I shall make the nursery as far off as I can. But
I see no call for his coming to the Grange, if you
will only do me the honour of coming yourself.
It isn't a bad old place, and with your taste you
might improve it and its master. What do you
say, Nevy Pynsent?''

I quite agree with you. Uncle'' said Pynsent,
coughing violently : Anna said afterwards she
thought he would have broken a bloodless.
Aunt Betsey would do much more good at the
Grange than Anna's baby."

Pynsent ! how foolish you are ! " murmured
Aunt Betsey over her knitting, which she was pertinaciously
pursuing.

'' Well, Ma'am, it remains for you to decide,"
said Uncle James with great modesty ; " I know I
am not deserving, but under the circumstances  "

I must go and see a patient," broke in Present.
" Jessie, will you come and give me that 
that small bottle of wine you promised ? Anna,
your baby is crying like a young bull."

Pynsent rose and beckoned his sisters, who rose
also.

Nevy, Nevy !" muttered Uncle James imploringly,
pulling Pynsent's coat-tails. " Stay, Nevy
Pynsent : no secrets amongst us, you know."

But Nevy Pynsent knew full well that whatever
Uncle James might think, Aunt Betsey would not
like a public proposal, but would require all the
formalities and etiquette of courtship.

"I wish you success. Uncle !" said Pynsent, tapping
him on the shoulder, and then, giving a tug
to Annans dress and Jessicass ringlets, he drew them
out of the room.

After they were gone, there was a most awkward
pause. Aunt Betsey knitted nervously, and felt
several twitching at her fingers' ends, but sat as
stately as a queen, the black turban looking more
imposing and grand than usual, as it surmounted
the black hair.

' Miss Burton' at last suggested Uncle James.

(( gy, pj replied Aunt Betsey.

Another pause.

"You understand my mind?' pursued Uncle
James.

Not precisely.

Why, I have felt and meant the same all my
life. You must know what I wish. Ma'am."

Public communications take one by surprise,
Mr. Barnard."

Dang my buttons, private or public is all the
same to me. I done care who knows it !"

Knows what ?" gently inquired Aunt Betsey.

Knows all, Maam : what you and I knows 

I cannot say I quite understand you," said
Aunt Betsey.

Why, that I am ready and willing to marry
you, whenever you like, if you will consent," blurted
out Uncle James, with an effort so strong that
he was compelled to take out his silk handkerchief
and wipe his forehead.

There was no mistake now, so Aunt Betsey put
down her knitting. She had still too much of the
old leaven in her to make her devoted swain happy
at once. " You do me much honour, I am sure,
Mr. Barnard; but you take one by surprise. I
cannot say I quite expected this."

"But you know it now. Ma'am, and must excuse
my boldness. I would have said my say
better if I could ; but somehow it slipped from me
unawares, and there's no recalling it now. 'Twas
the baby that did it, and I hope I have not offended
you."

By no means. Sir ; but the honour you intend
me requires consideration. So serious a subject
cannot be decided at once. I had not imagined
that you still retained your old feelings."

Never altered, Ma'am, upon my soul : I have
grown grey upon 'em. I know Pve been a fool, 
ask your pardon, Miss Burton,  but you never
used to care a rap for me, still I have never
changed towards you."

Aunt Betsey was touched. She played with her
eyeglass, and the old, old thought of Mr. Michelson
came to her mind. She compared the conduct
of the fine gentleman and the bluff farmer
involuntarily, and silently acknowledged the superiority
of the latter. In spite of all the ridicule
that might be attached to it by the world, there
was something sublime in a love that had lived
through more than thirty years, without hope or
encouragement, and that was willing at sixty to
perform what it pined for at five-and-twenty.
Aunt Betsey was old-maidish, vain, prim, proud,
selfish, spoilt by early adulation, and imperious;
but in the midst of this collection of faults and
follies, there lay a heart, or the shrivelled remains
of one, susceptible of some degree of warm feeling,
which, if tended and nurtured, might still send
forth its little flames. She was not worthy of
Uncle James ; but he thought her as superior to
him as woman could be to man ; and, after all, it
is not what the world thinks, or even what actually
exists, that makes the happiness of an individual,

o 3

but what he thinks or feels himself. Uncle James
was content that, as his wife, Miss Betsey Burton
should go on at the Grange just as he had seen
her go on at Fairfield ; if she improved, so much
the better for him, but he needed no improvement.


So Aunt Betsey played with her eyeglass, and
slightly blushed, and, without in the least descending
from the dignity of her original deportment,
she rose, and making a kind of obeisance, extended
three fingers of her still very white hand to Uncle
James, which that excellent man seized between
both of his very brown ones, and devoutly kissed.
As a gentleman of the old school, he performed
the other part of the ceremony of proposal fashionable
in his day. He fell down on one knee,
with which act of adoration Miss Betsey was particularly
pleased, she having conceived her notions
of such matters from Richardson heroes and
heroines, who always enacted similar scenes with
due propriety.

There was a falling off when it came to the
getting up ' part of the act. When Aunt Betsey
murmured, '' Pray rise, Mr. Barnard"" and would
have assisted her knight so to do, she found that,
physically as well as morally, " it is easier to fall
than to rise again." She did not, like the fair

dame who brought the great historian Gibbon to
his knees, ring the bell for the servant to help him
up, but she delicately pushed a chair towards him,
which, however, he gallantly disdained. Resting
his hand on his bended knee, he slowly drew up
the extended foot, and with one mighty effort, and
a long-drawn breath, he at last managed to get
clear of the matting.

Haw ! haw ! haw V he exploded, when he was
fairly on his feet. " I beg your pardon, Maam,
but, after all, there s no fool so great as an old fool.
First time and last, James, my boy, isn't it ?"

Aunt Betsey frowned, and Uncle James looked
alarmed.

May I hope. Miss Burton, that my offer is or
will be accepted T' he said with becoming gravity.

Sir, I must somewhat more maturely consider
the subject before I give my final answer. This
much I may venture to say, my feelings have undergone
a change towards you, and that of a favourable
nature."

Uncle James, in ecstasies, seized the yielding
hand, and would have been on his knees again, but
for a sudden twinge in his foot, which forewarned
him of gout.

May I call in Nevy Pynsent and our nieces ?"
he asks.

My mind is too much fluttered to admit of
that at presents said Aunt Betsey. " If you will
excuse me I will retire for a time and collect my
scattered ideas."

Certainly, my dear,  hem ! certainly, Ma'am,"
said Uncle James, pausing on the former epithet,
lest it should be premature, and palliating it with
the second.

Aunt Betsey deigned a smile however, and once
more offering her hand, swept out of the room.

'Nevy ! Nevy Pynsent ! Jessie ! Anna !" called
Uncle James in the passage, and the three apostrophized
individuals appeared from the parlour,
Jessie carrying the baby asleep in her arms.

You may keep the baby here ; make yourself
easy, Anna. You're going to lose Aunt Betsey,
Nevy."

"Thank goodness !" said Pynsent. "I mean,
my dear Uncle, on your account ; you will be the
gainer, we the losers. I congratulate you."

I am the proudest man in the world this day,
my dear children. What I have been living for
these thirty years,  what has often saved me from
drink and other misbecoming things, in the prospect,
has now become certain : I shall be happy
at last."

"God grant it, my best Uncle," said Jessie,

kissing the beaming face of the happy man, and
feeling no doubt that he would be all the happier,
and perhaps all the better, for marrying his first
and only love, even though she was as little suited
to him as could be.

Uncle, do you know what Dr. Johnson says ?'
asked Pynsent.

No : what, you scamp ?"

"That if marriages were made by the Lord
Chancellor, instead of in Heaven, as is supposed,
there would be quite as many happy matches.
Where do you think yours was made ?"

Begun at Fairfield, and ended, I hope, at the
parish church, my boy. The sooner you follow
my example the better : it is no good wasting
ones best years if one can help it, is it, Anna?"

No indeed. Uncle ; I am for marrying as
soon as possible," said Anna, stooping to kiss her
baby, "and I think it is never too late to do a
good thing."

You minx ! You mean to insinuate that it is
late for me."

Oh, never too late, I said. Uncle. I wish I
could be at the wedding. Chatham is coming to
fetch me, and we are to christen baby, and then 
and then ! Oh, Jessie ! give him to me, the dear
darling. How can I part with him,  how can I
leave him, even to you ?"

' A christening and a wedding ! ' exclaimed
Pynsent. ' I shall fly the country ! And then a
baby, ' muling and puking ! I will give it a dose,
Anna, and settle its accounts. Verdict,  Died by
the visitation of Gods ' Unknown causes  Arsenic
administered in pap.' Now call the bride elect,
and let us have some supper. Uncle, you can't
eat, I suppose''

Never felt so hungry in my life ! " said Uncle
James.

Three cheers for the young couple,  hip, hip,
hip, hurrah!" shouted Pynsent, and with lungs
innocent of consumption, he went to call Aunt
Betsey.

CHAPTER XXX.

Where is it mothers learn their love ?
In every church a fountain springs,
O'er which th' eternal Dove
Hovers on softest wings.

Wliat sparkles in that lucid flood
Is water by gross mortals eyed ;
But, seen by Faith, 'tis blood

Out of a dear Friend's side."  Keble.

It was the good and salutary custom in the parish
church to which Fairfield belonged, to baptize
children on the Sunday, during Divine Service.
The Burtonss had always been strict Church-people,
and Jessie inherited, even more than the rest of
the family, that spirit which, without tending to
superstitious observance of rites and ceremonies,
made her tenacious of giving due honour to all she
had learnt to love and reverence. It was therefore
her particular request that her little nephew
should be publicly brought into Christ s Church
on the day set apart for His service, and in the
presence of His family. She argued that the

prayers of the congregation joining with those of
the infantas relations and ascending together to
Heaven were equally beneficial to all not only
bringing down their blessing on the babe, but on
those who join in the ceremony; and, in the
words of the Rubric, causing that " every man present
be put in remembrance of his own profession,
made to God in his baptisms When her brother-in-law,
Chatham, said that it was an old fashion,
and quite in disuse at the present day, she replied,
'' Old fashions were often founded on right reason
and religious principle, and assuredly all the rules
laid down in the Book of Common Prayer were for
the furtherance of Christian unity, and brotherly
love and charity Pynsent quite agreed with his
sister ; and as they were to be godfather and godmother,
Uncle Timothy being the other sponsor 
for whom Uncle James acted as proxy  Chatham
and Anna let them have it as they would.

Accordingly, on a delicious morning in May the
whole family set out for church, some in the car,
and some walking across the fields. Baby, in the
most magnificent of robes, caps, hats, and cloaks,
was in the best of humours, and certainly looked
a child of whom any mother might be proud. He,
with his nurse, Aunt Betsey, and Uncle James,
went inside the car which Chatham drove. Anna

had a fancy to walk once more across those dear
old fields with Jessie and Pynsent before she went
away to that far foreign country , where the beautiful
spring flowers and breezes of exhilarating May
would exist for her but in memory. Half-gay,
half-sad, she hunted amongst the furze bushes as
she went on, for the white and blue violets that
scented their paths, but hid themselves from their
eyes ; or she paused in the rich green meadows to
gather the full, luscious cowslips, of which she had
made the huge tisty-tosty in her childhood ; or
plucked the pale, faint blossom of the cuckoo-flower,
that seemed, to her, to be the type of infancy.
Volatile as the birds, and even more
changing in her moods, she almost flew from one
well-remembered spot to another, pointing out to
her brother and sister each field or tree or brook
that had been their favourite haunts all their lives,
and recalling some scene connected with them.
From an outbreak of enjoyment she would suddenly
relapse into momentary sadness, and the
tears would start into her eyes when she thought
of the speedy parting, and above all, of her darling
child. Jessie, less excited, but not less touched by
the prospect of separation, and the doubtful lot of
her beautiful sister, tried to draw her mind to think
of the solemn ceremony they were so soon to go

through. But Anna's heart was in the past and
future; and whilst the flowers, the birds, the
brooklet, the very rejoicing sunshine, recalled the
happy days of her childhood, the loving words and
looks of Jessie, and the kind, manly tones of Present,
made her think of the time when she should
be far from them, following her husband, perhaps
to a soldier's grave. Never had those distant
church bells sounded so sadly-sweet to the soul of
Anna; never before had the rejoicing cry of the
cuckoo sent such a painful thrill through her heart.
Should she ever hear them again? Should she
ever again tread those fields to go to the House of
God?

Jessie," she said, when she at last settled into
a more sober walk, leaning on her brother's arm,
will you, when I am far away, try to think as
little as possible of my faults, and as much as you
can of my good qualities, if I have any?'

' My dearest Anna," said Jessie, '' I scarcely
know whether you have bad qualities or not ; if
you have, love is so blind that I cannot see them;
at least," she added, with her characteristic adherence
to truth, " if I see them they soon fade away
from before me, and I forget them."

"And will you forgive me all the trouble and
grief I have caused you during our whole lives ?

It seems to come before me at this moment, in a
great mass, as if, when I am parted from you, the
remembrance of it would never leave me. There
is something depressing in the joy and beauty of
nature when the heart is sad. Will you forgive
me?'

My darling Anna, I have nothing to forgive :
T can only love you.

Oh yes ! yes ! You have had much to forgive ;
always  all my life. And you, Pynsent? Will
you forgive me ? wholly, from your heart ? I know
I have always tried to tease and annoy you, but it
was not from real wickedness or want of affection,
only mischief. I have courage to say it now, for
the first time ; the prospect of parting makes one
feel so strange. Will you forgive all I have ever
done to offend you?

Let me see ! " said Pynsent, trying to laugh
off Annans sadness, " can I forgive all the pill-boxes
filled with little bread pills ; the medicine-bottles
with coloured water ; the dusters pinned to my
coat-tails; the anonymous letters from imaginary
patients ; the pert speeches on my old-fashioned
appearance ; the hints at my cross temper ; the
proud looks when I would not admire the little
beauty ; the sly pinches and tugs at my hair and
nose ; all the impertinences of my younger sister ?

How can you have the conscience to ask me,
Anna?"

"But my graver faults, Pynsent ? I cannot
jest today ; tomorrow we shall part."

Not so, Anna ; for I mean to see you off. It
is my turn to take a holiday now. Jessie has had
hers, and I will not be cheated."

' My dear brother ! " said Anna, putting her
hand in Pynsent' s, " how very, very kind ! Chatham
will feel this, I know. You cannot tell how
much he needs a real friend in many ways. He
has such very acute feelings, that he blames himself
for everything, whereas I am quite as much to
blame."

"What do you mean, Anna?" said Jessie.

Oh, nothing serious ; only we are rather in
debt, and shall have no time to get out of it. I
know it was very wrong, but we did it to please
one another, and to make our friends happy. Do
not shake your head, Pynsent ; if you will only
advise Chatham, I am sure he can manage. Get
him to sell his dogs and horses before we go away,
and to arrange so as to start fair, and I promise
to keep clear again, and so will he. Our great
trouble is, lest it should come to the ears of the
Countess ; we would rather do anything than
offend or annoy her. Chatham must manage to

run down and see her before we leave. I declare !
there he is, and I have been crying : if he sees me
with red eyes, he will think you have been lecturing
me.' "*

"The bells have stopped, baby is housed at the
Vicarage, Aunt and Uncle have gone into church,
and I have come to look after the lost sheep'
said Chatham, advancing. " What 's the matter,
Anna?" he added, casting rather an angry look at
Pynsent, whom he regarded somewhat in the light
of a bear.

"I have been sentimentalizing over these old
fields and flowers, and fifty things, that is all,"
said Anna, taking her husband s arm, and proceeding
in advance of the others.

"Does my Anna regret?" said Chatham, always
jealous to absurdity of Annans love.

Anna pressed his arm, and looked at him, smiling
through her tears. He was satisfied, and they
quickened their steps.

The service had begun when they entered the
church, and the congregation were on their knees.
In the hurry of their entry into their pew, Chatham
and Anna had placed themselves directly opposite
the Michelson seat. When they first saw
the red curtains they felt uneasy, but when, thin
the red curtains, they perceived Mr. Michelson in

person, they felt a shock that nearly sent them on
their knees again. The father's eyes literally met
those of the son and daughter-in-law, neither party
being aware that the other was in the neighbourhood.
That all three speedily looked upon their
prayer-books, may be readily imagined : that Chatham
and Anna never looked off them, may be also
understood : but that Mr. Michelson placed himself
behind the curtains, so as to command the
pew opposite with his ill-omened eyes, and used
them and his glass to good or evil purpose, need
be told. He had arrived at the Hall the night
before, as usual, unexpected by his servants, and
as usual, had gone to church. He was a man who
always kept up the outward proprieties of life, and
was very strict in his notions concerning the necessity
of being seen behind the red curtains once a
week, book and eyeglass in hand. He was looking
ill. His cheeks had lost a trifle of their roundness
and colour, and his eyes a symptom of their bold
brightness. His hair was a shade less glossy, and
in a certain spot on the crown of his head, was
brushed out of its usual course, in order to conceal
the beginning of a small bald patch.

The sudden appearance of the great man disturbed
the devotions of the inmates of the Fairfield
pew not a little, and the nurse and baby actually

entered the cliiirch unperceived by them and
were at the pew door before even Anna remembered
that they ought to be expecting them towards
the close of the second lesson.

The sight of the child however diverted their
thoughts from his Grandpa : grand, in every
sense of the word. He was asleep, and looked as
lovely as any sleeping infant ever looked : and nothing
earthly is more lovely than a sleeping infant.

The font stood very nearly central between the
two pews, so that Mr. Michelson, willingly or unwillingly,
was compelled to hear and see the whole
baptismal rite. Through the aperture in the curtain
he watched aU the proceedings, and although
he offered no prayer, and made no response with
those of the assembled congregation ; bent not the
knee, and raised not the body from the seat, as if
in token of disapprobation and disgust ; still the
holy service, the kneeling forms around the font,
and the beautiful babe, entered, like iron, into his
soul.

He was awhile forgotten by those whose fate, in
spite of himself, was entwined in his own, but he
could not forget them. He saw even the tear that
trembled in Annans eye, as the solemn service was
read that made her sweet babe a Christian. He
saw that babe awake from his sleep, and looking

round him with wondering eyes, at last recognize
and smile at his father. He watched the kneeling
forms of those who prayed that the child might
be born again, and become an heir of salvation
and heard them promise in his name " to renounce
the devil and all his works, the vain pomp and
glory of the world, and the carnal desires of the
flesh. He listened to the supplications of the
priest, joined in and responded to by all the congregation
but himself, for the eternal welfare and
present regeneration of his own grandchild; and
saw him taken into the arms of that priest, and
signed with the " sign of the crosses in token that
in after-life he should not be " ashamed to confess
the faith of Christ crucified." The name " Present
Chatham Burton Michelson" had also sounded
in his ears, and seemed to remain engraved upon
his mind. This combination grated harshly upon
him. Finally he heard the exhortation given to
the parents, godfathers and godmothers, to see
that the infant be taught, so soon as he should
be able to learn, what a solemn vow, promise, and
profession he had made," remembering always,
that baptism doth represent unto us our profession,
which is, to follow the example of our Saviour
Christ, and to be made like unto Him."

Could he hear and see all this untouched ? God,

who seeth the heart, alone can tell. He knew that
the child and his parents belonged to him , and that
he had renounced them all. He felt, when he
looked at them, that he was a lonely man, without
one real blessing to make life happy. He was conscious
of a something beautiful, holy, and soothing
in the kneeling forms of the young father and
mother, and loving relatives; the innocent, helpless
infant; the simple, heavenly service. When
it was all over, and the congregation still remained
on their knees to offer one short, silent prayer,
each in his own words, for the good of the young
immortal, just admitted into Christ's Church, he
bent his head in his hand. Perhaps he, too, prayed.
Perhaps the proud, cold, impalpable nature was
momentarily softened, and he may have asked fora
blessing on his innocent grandchild. Perhaps
the first stone is laid for building up, hereafter, the
faith of Christ in his own soul. Who shall say ?
Strange and imperceptible are the workings of the
Spirit of God.

Poor Anna was quite overcome when she returned
to the seat. The low sob might have been
heard, as she thought of her speedy separation
from the babe whose spiritual state she seemed
never to have considered until that day. Mr.
Michelson, who was standing according to his cuss

II. p

torn whilst the Litany was read was attracted by
the sound to look into the pew through the red
curtain, and again saw Chatham and Anna, kneeling
side by side, the manly arm thrown for a moment
round the waist of the agitated wife, as if to
assure her of comfort and support. Mr. Michelson
sat down, and from that moment kept his eyes
turned to his Prayer-book.

When the service was concluded, he hastily left
the church, evidently to avoid being brought into
contact with those connected with him. As he
walked on through the churchyard, he did not return
quite as majestically as usual the bows and
curtseys that awaited him, but with downcast eyes
trod the path that led to the Hall. The nurse and
his little grandchild were coming to meet the parents
; and the child was crowing and making various
infantine noises. The nurse had seen the
grand gentleman in the grand pew with the red
curtains, looking, with apparent interest, at the
christening through the aperture afore-mentioned.
She did not know who he was, but had no doubt
that he must be a friend of her master and mistress.
She curtseyed and smiled blandly, and seeing
him about to pass her with averted eyes, held
the baby up to be looked at, as much as to say,
' How can you pass such a beautiful child unno-

ticed? The unconscious infant crowed and half
stretched out his little hands. Mr. Michelson was
quite taken by surprise. He felt impelled to pause
a moment and look at his grandson. The full dark
eyes of Anna flashed upon him in the babe. Perhaps
there was a hidden spring of tenderness somewhere
in his hearty for he always felt an inclination
for children : we have already seen this more than
once. He could not resist the outstretched arms.
He patted the cheek of the lovely boy, and was
going on, when the little hand caught, unconsciously,
hold of his finger. This was irresistible.
How could any one, with the thousandth part of a
heart, refuse such an appeal ? He hemmed and
fidgeted, and gently disengaged his finger, and
again patted the dear, soft cheek. A momentary
tenderness stole into his bold blue eye. His hand
crept into his pocket, and drew out a sovereign,
which he gave the nurse. " Do not name this on
any account; do not say that I have seen the
child," he said, and passed on.

Of course, the nurse, as soon as she met her
mistress, gave an exaggerated account of the meeting,
and Anna told it to Chatham, and they were
both so moved by it, that they resolved to write a
farewell letter to their father. But Uncle James
heard, in the course of the evening, that he had

p 2

again taken his departure ; wliicli appeared so decided
a hint that he meant to have nothing to say
to them, that they deferred the letter to some more
convenient season.

They were obliged to leave Fairfield themselves
the following morning. Hasty arrangements were
made concerning the baby. Poor Jessie received
him, reluctantly , it must be confessed,, he was
such a charge and responsibility. Chatham was to
order his agents in town to pay her fifty pounds
a year for his maintenance, and that of a nurse.
She would not hear of more, at present, though
their ideas were magnificent, as usual, and willed
her a hundred and fifty.

The parting was dreadful. This was, perhaps,
Anna's first real sorrow, and she gave way to the
excess of her maternal feelings unrestrainedly. It
was more than her friends could bear to see her
all that morning with her child ; now giving him
into the arms of Jessie, and conjuring her to be a
mother to him ; now casting her own arms round
both, and pressing hot kisses and hotter tears upon
their lips alternately; then turning to Chatham
and assuring him that she would follow him to the
world's end, but that a mother's feelings were so
strong  so strong ! Again on her knees before his
little cradle when he slept, her arms cast over it,

her eyes fixed on his cherub face, her heart beating
quick, quick, with her efforts to restrain the sobs
that she knew might wake him. And then the
babe's unconsciousness ; that soft, regular breathing
 those laughing lips  the tight little hand
clasped round the finger on which was her wedding
ring ! She felt that her heart must break. And
Chatham stood over the mother and child, scarcely
less affected. He covered his eyes with his hand
to hide the full, large tears that were swelling in
them, and leaning on the head of the cradle sobbed
with his wife. Their first-born ! Was this the
anguish of parting with a child ? What must be
that of losing one ? Not greater, they felt assured ;
they thought they could not suffer more, and live.
Gently Anna untied the little cap-string  softly,
tenderly, she uplifted the silky hair  breathlessly
she cut off two glossy, tiny tresses. She kissed the
hair ; she kissed the little hand ; she breathed
kisses and prayers over the sweet smiling face ;
and knowing that her sobs must either have vent
or break her heart, she rose, and in her husband's
arms poured out, as it were, her very soul in tears.
God knows that a mother's love is stronger than
all other love !

Poor Anna ! She had looked forward with some
pleasure, and the utmost curiosity and excitement.

to going to India. It had been one of the inducements
to her engaging herself to Nelson ; but now
the actual event was about to take place, how
changed everything seemed. She had not realized
the fact that aU the admiration, all the gaiety, all
the splendour that either the east or west can give
us, cannot compensate for the one great agony of
parting for years from those dearest to us. She
did not know that it is better to live in quiet and
comparative poverty with those who love us, than
to dwell in luxury with those who merely admire
us, or court us for some extraneous good. She
now felt the love of a mother at her heart. What
was the flattery of the world to this ? She felt
the true, tender, deep affection of a sister working
within her, never so true, so tender, or so deep
before. What was a life of pleasure without this ?
What if sorrow or sickness, or death should go
with her, or find her in a foreign land ! What if
her husband should be killed in battle ! It would
be all over then with the allurements of pleasure,
and she would be far away from home, friends, and
all that loved her. When she clasped Jessie in her
arms for the last time, and saw her turn away with
her hands covering her eyes, and her frame convulsed
with sobs, she knew that no new ties could
ever wind around her heart, and draw it as those

old ones did. What was India what was the
whole world, at that moment ? Sister, almost mouther
 they might never meet again.

Oh, it seems a strange, hard, unnatural world,
and a still more unnatural state of society, when
hearts almost break at partings such as these !
God forgive those who cause " wars and rumours
of wars," for surely if the whole amount of agony
they occasion could be gathered into one vast heap,
it would overset the world.

Pynsent helped his brother-in-law to arrange his
affairs, and between them they succeeded in placing
them tolerably straight. The sale of carriages,
hunters, and dogs, enabled them to pay off most
of the debts ; and the pay just received defrayed
the rest, and bought the proper outfit. True, they
left England poor, or would have done so, had not
Uncle Timothy presented Anna with a bank-note
of a hundred pounds, which he had just received
from a rich and grateful patient.

Chatham and Anna both managed to visit Plas
Ayron for a couple of days, and to take their last
farewell of the venerable Countess. They never
saw her again. They were enabled to renew their
thanks, so often expressed by letter, for the happiness
she had caused them ; and she had the gratification
of believing that she had really made them

happy. They confessed to her that they had been
extravagant but assured her that it was for the
first and last time in their lives and that they had
never forgotten or wholly disregarded her advice
and wishes. She believed them, and in her love
for them , and theirs for her, was repaid for all she
had done. Her memory often kept them in afterlife
from folly ; and faulty as they too frequently
were, they never wholly forgot her advice, or the
generous means she had employed to make them
good and happy. The Lady Georgiana and her
children were equally glad to see them, and sorry
to bid them farewell.

Uncle Timothy and Pynsent saw them embark
for India. The parting was a very sad one, though
all tried hard to be courageous. Pynsent felt for
the first time how well he really loved this spoilt,
pet sister ; and whilst watching the vessel glide
smoothly over the ocean on her outward course, he
forgot all her little vanities, capricious moods, and
tantalizing ways, and only remembered that he
had never loved her as he ought. Many undeserved,
and some deserved self-reproaches assailed
him, as he wished he had been a tenderer brother,
and a more willing aider of Jessie in her efforts to
direct that wayward heart. But the past was past,
and he could only hope and pray for the future.

CHAPTER XXXI.

Oh, fie upon this single life ! forego it.
We read how Daphne, for her peevish flight,
Became a fruitless bay-tree : Syrinx turn'd
To the pale empty reed : Anaxarete
Was frozen into marble : whereas those
Which married, or proved kind unto their friends.
Were, by a gracious influence, translated
Into the olive, pomegranate, mulberry ;
Became flowers, precious stones, or eminent stars."

John Webster.

The next important event at Fairfield was the
marriage of Uncle James and Aunt Betsey. As
may be supposed, it excited much mirth in the
neighbourhood ; but the gentleman was too happy,
and the lady too proud, to care for what people
said about them. In their own family the case
was different. Many were the opinions broached,
and when Uncle Timothy wrote to Jessie upon the
subject, and poured out his disapprobation, she was
compelled to suppress the letter, and in her reply
to entreat him to write to Uncle James kindly
and considerately.

p3

Aunt Betsey was resolved to have everything in
proper style, and arranged with such a degree of
state as befitted the Burton family. Accordingly
a suitable trousseau was provided, and the friends
on both sides, who were indeed mutual friends, invited
to the wedding. The Grange was furbished
and furnished, by Jessie's directions, into a highly
respectable family mansion, and she was desired to
spare no expense. Uncle James himself suddenly
returned to his boyhood. It was delicious to see
him jump with resolute agility over stiles that he
had climbed with some difficulty a few months back,
in order to assist the dignified and graceful Miss
Betsey, magnificent in silks and feathers ; to watch
him stoop to pick up her handkerchief, play with
her knitting-cotton, blush when he inadvertently
touched her hand, rush about with plates of toast
and cake, to the delight of Pynsent, who had a
decided objection to the task, and finally laugh at
himself with one of his hilarious '' Haw ! haw !
haws V when he suddenly remembered that he
might be making a fool of himself. It would have
been ridiculous, had it not been the result of feelings
so pure, and a love so constant and enduring,
to see him present the loveliest rose, with the half-bursting
bud, to the object of his adoration. It
was ridiculous  no, not quite ridiculous, because

Aunt Betsey was always dignified  but peculiar,
to mark the reception of the gift. Aunt Betsey
Would bend over it, and with a dainty finger and
thumb place it in her bosom en princesse. She
was really beginning to feel a few sparks of the
tender passion, and thought that if her lover was a
little less loud, and adhered more strictly to the
rules of grammar, he would be quite gentlemanlike,
as he undoubtedly was handsome.

Upon Jessie, as usual, fell all the labour,  the
making of cakes and tarts, the arrangement of the
house, the consultations about the dresses, and,
above all, the keeping in order of Captain Burford
and Pynsent. Oh the entreating glances, the
powerful private lecturing, she expended in vain
upon those incorrigible tricksters ! Every good
joke was brought to bear upon poor Uncle James,
who, to do him justice, took it very good-humoured
; but Aunt Betsey resented every insult
with a calm dignity that became her.

'' Uncle," said Pynsent one day, when the lover
had been in attendance, and seemed in a fluster of
excitement upon the approaching event, " how do
you feel in your present condition ?"

"Very comfortable. Sir, and I advise you to
cultivate the same," was the reply.

Then it does not make you ill, as it does some
people ?"

"Never better in my life, boy; I am quite
young again. Haw ! haw !"

Do you know this morning Giles Miller sent
for me T began Pynsent.

'Pynsent/' interrupted Jessie, "come here a
moment."

Let's have Giles Miller first," said the Captain.
* He is going to be married, is he not?"

There is the extraordinary part of the affair !
Excuse me. Aunt Betsey. He called me in as I
passed, and said he felt strange sensations. Do
you feel strange sensations, Uncle?"

There's a strange sensation for you, Nevy !"
said Uncle James, giving him a heavy slap on the
back with his broad palm.

"You have no feeling. Uncle," said Pynsent,
shrinking. "  Well, Giles,' said I,  you are in
love, and you must describe your sensations accurately,
as they are in no medical book that I am
acquainted with : where is the seat of it ?'  I
feel it working here like barm, Sir !' exclaimed
Giles, striking his left side with his hand, and
looking very much moved. I considered gravely,
as in duty bound ; then advised him to swallow a
bushel of flour, sit quietly by the fire till it was
leavened, then run about a long time to work it
into breads and finally, get into the oven and bake

it.  If that doesn't calm your sensations Giles I
added, * 1 know not what wills "

Haw! haw! haw !" shouted Uncle James. '''Not
a bad description, is it, Maam V timing to Aunt
Betsey ; " I swear I have felt like barm in me a
thousand times'

Between jests and gibes, the time before the
marriage fled on. Uncle Timothy, somewhat mollified
by Jessie, came down to give the youthful
bride away, and Jessie was bridesmaid. Uncle
Timothy was the most untractable of the party.
He was very susceptible of ridicule, as old bachelors
occasionally are, and could not get over the absurdity
of the match. He would have been better
satisfied had Aunt Betsey been more suitable, but
he had frequent occasion to look through his favourite
Epistle to his namesake Timothy, which
he always considered as particularly addressed to
himself, to find texts upon patience and forbearance.
His conscience pricked him when he came
to the words "forbidding to marry / and, addressing
an imaginary bookshelf, as he walked up
and down his bedroom at Fairfield, he accused
himself thus : " Timothy ! Timothy ! perhaps thou
art one of those ' seducing spirits who ' forbid to
marry perhaps also thou dost indulge in Wain
babblings :' thou must not go against nature, son

Timothy ;" and so he tried to reconcile himself to
having Aunt Betsey for a sister-in-law. To show
that he wished her well, he made her a present of
a handsome gold watch and chain, which glittered
conspicuously on the wedding morning over the
silver grey satin dress. Aunt Betseyss attire was
highly becoming, being neither too juvenile nor
too antique for her years and the occasion. She
certainly looked a splendid woman in the white
bonnet and ostrich feather, and Uncle James was
very proud of her.

It all went off very well. It was cheering to
hear the hearty voice of Uncle James, as he pronounced
the words after the clergyman, as resolutely
as if he had been talking to his huntsman,
and said the " I will' so loud, that it resounded
through the church, and made Jessie start. Aunt
Betsey was becomingly nervous and modest ; shed
a few tears, trembled, and blushed; but, on the
whole, behaved with her customary dignity.

When all was over, and the happy couple and
Uncle Timothy had started for London, where, be
it said, neither bride nor bridegroom had been before,
Pynsent and Jessie settled themselves down
as bachelor and old-maid brother and sister, with
feelings of very decided contentment. They considered
that they were beginning the life they had

planned for themselves years ago in good earnest,
only a little earlier than they intended. They had
both made up their minds never to marry, and
that with more intention of keeping their resolution,
than most people of seven or.eight-and-twenty
have when they make such a one. They were
devotedly attached to one another, and always
peaceable and happy together, and although Present
was not reconciled to his country practice,
which he followed against the grain, still he tried
to make the best of it. He had too generous a
heart to accumulate a fortune; for he could not
press for money, or indeed take it, from the greater
proportion of his patients, and his principal practice
was amongst the poor. Day and night he
laboured in his profession, and laboured willingly,
for he liked it ; but he could not bear the vulgar
ignorance he met with, and sometimes longed fora
wider sphere, both for his talents and philanthropy.


He had, unfortunately, work at home as well as
abroad, for Annans baby proved, as the London
doctors had predicted, a sickly child, and occasioned
both him and Jessie great anxiety. Many
sleepless and prayerful nights did they pass with
the poor suffering infant, whilst his parents were
on the wide ocean, unconscious of his state, save

by sympathy, which doubtless drew Anna's heart
to her baby at such times. But they nursed and
doctored him through the various diseases of infancy,
all of which he seemed to have worse than
any child that was ever born before : teething,
whooping-cough, measles, scarlatina, and all the
ills to which babyhood is heir, attacked him during
the first two years of his existence, and the worst
of the matter was, that he would endure no nurse
but Jessie. He was a child of good taste, for anyone
who had once been nursed by her during illness,
would have put up but ill with anybody else.
She waxed thin and pale upon her unusual watchings
; for, although always well occupied, she had
been accustomed to regular hours and regular
sleep. However, in due course of time, both she
and Pynsent were amply repaid for their trouble,
in seeing their little nephew grow up a fine, strong
child, the delight and admiration of everybody.
As Jessie had him all to herself, she brought him
up judiciously, and resolutely abstained from spoiling
him. Self-will and pride he inherited from
both parents, and Jessie did her best, by taldng
those ill weeds in the bud, to root them out. Of
course he loved her and Pynsent as if they were
his parents, and took to calling Jessie " Mammy"
in spite of all her exertions to make him say Aunty;

and in vain she tried to impress upon him that he
had a mother and father far away beyond the seas,
and that he must love them best. He consented
to place them second in his affections, and to call
them his ''far-away mamma and papa; but he
could not, naturally, care much about them. Jessie
felt this to be the great evil of going to India, and
knew that Providence had ordered well for her, in
keeping her at home.

Thus more years passed on; quietly at home,
uneasily abroad. ' Wars and rumours of wars" in
India kept the pair of country mice in continual
anxiety; and the birth and death of two babies
made Anna's letters sad to receive and read. We
have not time to comment on all the young mother's
misery, and its outpourings to her sister;
but God was working his way to her soul through
chastisement. Chatham too was continually engaged
in active service, and poor Anna, following
him as near and as well as she could, had found
India anything but the paradise she had expected.

One great and supreme pleasure had cheered
Jessie during this period : she had had one or
two good and friendly letters from Nelson. Captain
Burford thought them precursors of future
happiness. Jessie saw in them, and knew that
they contained nothing more than, the words of a

friend who esteemed her, and professed himself
benefited by her advice. Nelson appeared to be
carrying ont his resolution of making glory his
mistress. Not from himself, but from the Indian
journals, they learnt his exploits. Wherever danger
was greatest and battle fiercest, he was sure to be
found, and promotion was rapid accordingly. He
obtained his captaincy for his conduct on a very
dangerous expedition against the natives, into the
interior of India, when he was the first to scale a
fort, and to lead his men, but few in number,
on to victory. Jessie's greatest delight, when the
news reached her, was that by his forbearance and
gallantry he had induced the unhappy natives to
capitulate, and was honourably mentioned for his
lenity. She could never understand what right
any nation had, whether Christian or heathen, to
make inroads into the countries of peaceful people,
for the mere desire of conquest, and looked upon
glorious England not unfrequently as a marauder
or freebooter, because she had borne her victorious
arms into places where she had no natural right to
enter. Why Jessie should increase her already
superabundant stock of avocations by the study of
languages, her brother Pynsent was at a loss to
know ; but at every spare moment she might have
been seen, ever since Aunt Betsey's marriage, with

the French and Italian dictionaries and grammars
before her, which Anna had left behind when she
went to India. Jessie knew something of the
Latin grammar from hearing Pynsent and Charles
their lessons, and she found her knowledge of considerable
use to her in her learned attempts. The
truth was that Jessie, in spite of farming and
housekeeping, and her little nephew, felt a void
in her heart, that made her sad when she was left
to her own thoughts. She had heard that nothing
was so good as study to withdraw the mind from
itself, and accordingly she began in good earnest.
When she was at work of an evening, she woidd
have a vocabulary or grammar before her eyes, and
resolutely insert the words and sense into her mind,
which effectually kept out regrets and wishes that
she knew were useless. In time Pynsent took an
interest in her pursuit, and having picked up a
little French at school, and a good accent from a
French master, assisted her, and improved himself.
She had learnt to pronounce Italian from Anna
during her holidays, merely for the pleasure that
the sound of the language gave her, her ear being
peculiarly alive to sweet sounds ; and thus was
enabled to make a progress that would have surprised
many who had been puzzling over the languages
as children at school, without much interest

in the pursuit. The little music also that she had
picked up during her very desultory education was
carefully reproduced, and now and then she tried
the old piano , and partly by ear, partly by note,
managed Lo accompany herself in singing. She
would laugh heartily when she suddenly recollected
that she was verging upon thirty years of age when
she began her studies ; nevertheless she persevered,
and banished many an unhappy thought by so
doing.

CHAPTER XXXII.

Thus with, the year
Seasons return, but not to me returns
Day, or the sweet approach of even or morn.
Or sight of vernal bloom, or summer's rose,
Or flocks or herds, or human face divine ;
But cloud instead, and ever-during dark
Surrounds me, from the cheerful ways of men
Cut off, and for the book of knowledge fair
Presented with an universal blank
Of Nature's works, to me expunged and rased,
And wisdom at one entrance quite shut out."

Milton.

Jessie was sitting one evening at the aforementioned
work and studies when Pynsent returned
home bringing a letter for her. It was from Tiny,
and its contents greatly alarmed both the brother
and sister. It said 

 My dearest Jessie,
My mother and I have just been to Duke-street,
in the hope of seeing Mr. Barnard, who is,

VOL. III. B

you probably know, very ill. We have been to
the house several times lately, but Mrs. Hicks has
always sent us away, assuring us that her master
was too ill to see any one. If we asked what was
the matter with him, she always said that it was an
attack of rheumatism, which made him very irritable.
It was no use for us to beg her to say that
we were there, as she would reply that he could
not be disturbed then, but that she would give our
messages when he awoke, or was able to listen to
them. This has occurred five or six times. At
last I got so very, very anxious, that I was determined
to waylay the doctor. I went therefore
early to Duke street alone, for mother was too
poorly to linger about, and fortunately soon saw a
gentleman leaving the house, who I thought might
be a physician, by his appearance. His carriage
was at the door, and Mrs. Hicks was waiting to
see him off. I trembled all over, but it was my
only chance; so I took courage, and when the
door closed, and the carriage was driving away, I
called to the coachman to stop. I told him that
I wanted to speak particularly to the gentleman,
who immediately put his head out, and begged me
to come into the carriage, as he was in a hurry.
I did so, and he kindly answered all my inquiries
about your dear uncle. He said that he had been

one of the most active medical men in London
during this awful cholera, and that he had not
spared himself night or day. Although he had
not taken the dreadful disease,, he had so overtasked
his strength, and his mind had been so
upset by the scenes he had witnessed, that he was
taken dangerously ill. It seemed a general cold
and weakness through his system  a kind of influenza,
 but unfortunately it has settled in his
head and eyes, so that he is nearly blind. The
doctor told me that his sight was never very good,
and had been much injured by long study and attention
to his profession. You know, my dear Jessie,
that he once told you that he had a kind of fear of
cataract. If he recovers from this illness, he maybe
blind for life. The doctor did not say must,
but may, so there is hope. Grot grant it may be
hopeful hope, and not despairing hope, such as I
feel for my poor mother ! When I had told the
doctor how good Mr. Barnard had been to me,
and that I knew all his relations, he said that he
was astonished that none of you came to him
at such a time. Mrs. Hicks had written frequently,
and he had left notes to be enclosed in
hers, but still the good, excellent, best of men (so
he called him) was left to die alone. Your uncle
frequently asked whether any one had come from

b2

Fairfield, and excuses were made to account for your
silence and absence, which seemed to trouble him,
although he was too weak to think or talk much
about anything. Mrs. Hicks managed the house,
and attended to him entirely; and, the doctor
added, thoroughly did her duty. Now I feel assured
that either these letters have never been
sent, or you have never received them. At least I
think you would have been with Mr. Barnard by
this time, had you known how dangerously ill he
has been. It is of no use for us to ask to be
allowed to see him again, because Mrs. Hicks does
not choose that we should do so. I hope you will
come to London, and if you have time, be so very
kind as to let me hear from you  "

"We must start instantly, here interrupted
Pynsent : " there has been either some infamous
deceit, or great mistake''

Certainly'' said Jessie ; '' there is not one moment
to lose. You had better go over at once to
Uncle James, ask Aunt Betsey to take care of little
Chatham, and see what they say about the matter.
Meanwhile I will pack up some clothes ready for
the mail tomorrow morning."

Pynsent found his uncle and aunt, as he expected,
in the parlour  become, by the taste and
management of the latter, almost a modern 

: it would have been quite one, but for
the extreme regularity of the chairs and tables,
and the stiffness of the ornaments. Aunt Betsey
was sittings as usual, by the fire, knitting, dignified
as ever, and very handsomely dressed ; Uncle James
was seated by her side, a round table before him,
on which was the newspaper that he had been
reading, but which had been laid down to enable
him the better to reply to some question of Aunt
Betsey's upon the politics of the day. His spectacles
were pushed back upon his forehead, to give
him the advantage of seeing her with his natural
vision, and his hand rested on the arm of her chair.
He was quite as rubicund, portly, and good-humoured
as ever. Perhaps both he and his wife
looked younger than they did some five years ago,
when we took leave of them on their marriage day :
certain it is that they looked happier. Uncle
James's blue coat and yellow buttons, broad-frilled
shirt, yellow waistcoat and kerseymere inexpressible
and gaiters were of the same materials as heretofore,
but they were now of the most scrupulous
cleanliness and neatness, fitted perfectly, and were
put on with a decided view to becomingness. The
thick curly hair, but slightly grizzled, was brushed
and oiled into smoothness, and the large brown
hands were guiltless of dirt.

This was all voluntary homage to Aunt Betsey.
She had never found it necessary to exert argument,
 influence was sufficient. She sat in the
parlour of an evening, because she preferred it;
Uncle James, contrary to former custom, did so
for the same reason, and enjoyed it. The Hall
chimney-comer was left for his dogs. He had lost
none of his bluff hospitality, or ready kindliness,
only it was softened in her presence. To him she
was always the Miss Betsey Burton of old days.
The adoration and reverence that he had felt for
her for thirty or forty long years before he married,
did not change when he had the happiness of possessing
his treasure, simply because she did not
change.

Aunt Betsey was as stately, genteel, precise, and
proud in her married, as she had been in her
maiden state. She was every day becoming more
satisfied with her husband, as he became more gentlemanlike
under her influence. She was even
nurturing a kind of affection for him, which might,
in the course of years, by the time he was seventy,
ripen into as much love as she was capable of feeling
for any person not decidedly patrician. She
managed her house well, and had so awed his half-wild
domestics by her stately gravity, that they had
become tame animals in the house, and crouched

before her as such ; abusing hers after the manner
of Dinah at Fairfield, behind her back. The old
Grange was turned from a huge farm-house, once
more into the manor-house which it originally was ;
and its master and mistress into the country gentleman
and lady of the old school. Pynsent and
Jessie looked with the utmost astonishment upon
the two oldest representatives of the Burtonss and
Beards. The former declared that Oxides Metamorphoses
were nothing to Uncle James and his
house, and set to wondering what there could be
in the mere influence of Love, the passion he despised,
to effect such changes. And he could not
but acknowledge that they were for the better.
Even Aunt Betsey was vastly improved. He began
to think that marriage must be the most honourable
and natural state after all ; since it could convert
an Uncle James into a pattern man, and an
Aunt Betsey into something endurable, which she
never was, and never would have been, as an old
maid. In short the much-dreaded, much-laughed,
much-reprehended marriage of this middle-aged
couple had turned out the happiest thing possible
for everybody belonging to them ; and all that could
be said by the lookers-on was ' that wonders would
never ceases I wish all the old bachelors and old
maids in the country would follow their example.

and make matches, suitable in age; instead of
either rendering themselves miserable by marrying
young girls, on the one hand ; or vegetating alone
in ill-managed gardens of bitter herbs on the other.

Dang my buttons V' said Uncle James, "but
if that woman ought not to be flayed alive ! I beg
your pardon, my dears turning apologetically to
his wife, " but isn't it too bad ?''

"Too bad, indeed' said Mrs. Barnard with a
severe air.

These animadversions were lavished upon Mrs.
Hicks, when Pynsent had read Tiny's letter.

We must all set off at once," said Uncle James,
all of us,  done you think so, my dear ?"

Not exactly ; I cannot see the utility of such
a proceeding. What do you think, Pynsent ?"

I agree with you. Aunty. If you would take
little Chatham here, and let Jessie and me go  ''

"And leave me at home, Sir,  his own brother !"
exclaimed Uncle James. " Well, to be sure ! the
young people of this generation do think themselves
wiser than their elders. What do you think.
Ma'am ?"

My dear Mr. Barnard, you are your own master."


I beg your pardon, my dear. When you did
me the honour to marry me, I ceased to be my

own master and willingly allowed myself to be
governed. Nevy Pynsent, your Aunt shall decides '

Let me say my say firsts Uncle. Jessie must
go to nurse Uncle Timothy ; I should like to watch
his symptoms day and nighty under abler hands,
therefore to go also : but we cannot leave the child
at home. If Aunt Betsey would take care of him,
perhaps the farm and the patients would take care
of themselves : and of course you could do as you
like. But Aunty is the chief person to be consulted,
on account of little Chatham.'

Oh, the child may come here, Pynsent, if you
think he is at all tractable. He is a sweet child,
and the picture of Annas

Another metamorphosis ! Pynsent expected a
world of opposition, and Aunt Betsey yielded at
once. He was so delighted that he actually kissed
his aunt,  a favour that he rarely bestowed upon
her; which voluntary action occasioned Uncle
James to give him a most hearty slap upon the
back, and to call him a confounded young puppy.

With your leave, my dear," he said, ' I must
go to Lunnun with the young folks. If anything
was to happen to Brother Timothy, I should never
forgive myself. Bless my soul ! didn't he come all
the way from Lunnun to see Jessie when I asked
him and didn't he come to our wedding  the

B 3

proudest day of my life ? and shall I delay to go to
see him when he is sick ? What do you say, my
dear''

I think you should go, Mr. Barnard, decidedly,
though it will be lonely here without you''

Uncle James actually kissed his wife's hand, in
token of the pleasure he felt at her expressing her
fears of being lonely without him.

Ah, Pynsent, my boy, marry ! There's a pattern
lady for you, Sir ! I never knew happiness
before, Sir. Go and seek for the counterpart of
your beautiful Aunt, boy, and marry !"

Where shall I find her. Uncle ? But are you
quite decided to go ?"

Quite : tomorrow, by mail. Blind ! that isn't
possible, is it, Pynsent ? Timothy blind ! I don't
believe that, and I won't believe it, anyhow."

I hope not," said Pynsent. " Then, Aunty,
will you come and fetch Chatham. He is very entertaining
now, and will, I think, prevent your feeling
dull during our absence. We will write constantly."


I shall make a point of writing every day, my
dear," said Uncle James proudly, who had never
written half-a-dozen letters in his life, with the exception
of the daily bulletins during the fever.

Tomorrow, at the Inn, then. Uncle : we had

better meet there. Good night. Thank you. Aunt
Betsey, you are really kinds said Pynsent, as he
made his exit. " There is more good in her, after
all, than I fancied ; perhaps there is in most people."


The following day. Uncle James, Pynsent, and
Jessie started for London, which place they reached
safely, and duly arrived at Mr. Timothy Barnard
house, in Duke-street. Mrs. Hicks had never seen
Jessie before, and gave her a glance of anything
but satisfaction, when she found that she had come
on purpose to nurse her uncle. There was not
much leisure for inquiries into the cause of Mrs.
Hicks' s silence respecting her master's illness, and
that notable housekeeper declaring that she had
written more than once, it seemed useless to press
the subject. She insisted that her letters must
have miscarried in some marvellous way, and inwardly
wondered how the new comers could have
been informed of Mr. Barnard's illness, as she had
never written at all.

They did not think it wise to disturb the invalid
at five o'clock in the morning, especially as Mrs.
Hicks assured them that he was sleeping, and somewhat
better ; therefore they rested, for a couple of
hours, on such sofas and beds as were available,
whilst Mrs. Hicks prepared refreshment, and wished

them back again at Fairfield nth all her heart.
As early as appeared to them discreet, Pynsent went
to the house of the physician, Dr. Manson, who attended
his uncle, in order to make more particular
inquiries concerning him, and to beg him to
return with him to Duke-street. Dr. Manson appeared
rejoiced to find that his patient s friends
had arrived, and said that he thought the sooner
he knew of their being in the house the better.
He returned with Pynsent at once, giving him, en
route, all the particulars of his uncles indisposition.
He had been ill for several weeks, and was
still in danger of sinking from weakness ; but the
most alarming feature in his complaint was his
total loss of sight. It seemed doubtful whether
he would ever recover it, as cold had brought on
inflammation, and a thick film had gathered over
both eyes, which the celebrated oculist who had
been called in, could not venture to remove in his
present state, and the evil was hourly increasing.

Dr. Manson prepared Uncle Timothy for the arrival
of his relations, and quitted the apartment as
soon as he had whispered to his patient that his
friends were near. The room was very nearly dark,
and so indistinct was the outline of the bed, that
they would scarcely have been able to make directly
for it, had not a low sob from the dear relative

upon it attracted them aright. Jessie advanced
first, and leaning over the pillow, and pressing her
quivering lips upon her uncle's face, murmured 

We are here, my dear, dear Uncle."

"Thank God!" was the almost inaudible response,
as he kissed his niece, and feebly returned
the pressure of his brother's tender grasp.

They could not speak for some time, each trying
to overcome emotions that ought not to burst forth.
Uncle James's broad chest was heaving with suppressed
feeling. He had not realized the possibility
of his brother's being really as weak as an
infant, and blind. He never had been able to realize
misfortune until it came actually upon him ; some
few hopeful natures never can do so.

Uncle Timothy was the first to speak, at least
to breathe words that Jessie was obliged to put her
ear to his lips to hear.

You are very good  God is merciful  you will
stay now."

We will not leave you, dear Uncle."

"We would have come sooner, but for that
old  " began Uncle James.

Hush ! " whispered Pynsent : " there has been
a mistake about letters, my dear Uncle, or we
should have been with you long ago."

All will be well now," said Jessie ; " perhaps

you had better go to the doctor Pynsent, and take
Uncle James with you for a short time'

The pair quietly left the room and Jessie sat
awhile in silence by her uncle's bed, holding his
thin hand in hers. Warm, fervent prayers were
in her heart, and tears rolling fast down her cheeks.
Tears too were in the film-covered eyes of her dear
uncle, but he felt grateful and happy.

Mrs. Hicks came in with breakfast, and Uncle
Timothy gently whispered, " Give it me yourself,
my dear'' upon which Jessie took the tray, saying,
with her usual consideration, to the housekeeper,
" You will allow me to wait on my uncle
today, it is so long since I have had the pleasure of
doing so." Mrs. Hicks assented with a look that,
it was fortunate for her, the darkness rendered invisible,
and left the room in disgust.

Jessie was obliged to feed Uncle Timothy, he
was so weak ; and he took the nourishment at her
hands with the submission of an infant, thankful
that he had now some one of his kindred near him
in his extremity. So it is always. Business, pleasure,
science, any engrossing pursuit is sufficient
to the mind in time of health, to the exclusion frequently
of the ties of blood; but when sickness
comes, and death seems to hover upon the threshold,
the soul pants for the presence and love of

some one whom God and nature have appointed asa
household ministering spirit. At such periods
man acknowledges the wisdom and goodness of the
Creator in implanting in the heart the love of
kindred.

The first thing that Jessie did when she left her
uncle's room and was replaced therein by his brother
and nephew was to write to Tiny. She was
careful to reserve her note to be posted by Present,
not feeling quite sure of Mrs. Hicks probity
in such matters. In the course of the afternoon
Mrs. Eveleigh and Tiny arrived. They were both
so much affected and excited, that it was sometime
before they could compose themselves. Mrs.
Eveleigh particularly, who was in very delicate
health, was so deeply moved as to induce Tiny to
take her for a time to another room. She returned
alone, to explain.

' My mother'' she said, " is so weak, that she
cannot bear the excitement of strangers, and we have
been very anxious about Mr. Barnard, the more so
as we could not hear the truth. And then it was
so hard to suppose he might think we did not care
for him. God knows we did. He has been our
best friend for years, and if he were to die, my
mother thought we should be alone in the world."

"What have you been doing all this time,

Tiny?' asked Jessie; 'you are not well yourself'


We have our little school, and we are able to
take in needlework, and I give lessons in drawing
to two little girls to whom my drawing-master
recommended me. I am quite well."

Jessie looked at the child-woman with grave
astonishment and pity. She was now nearly seventeen,
but still so small and slight, that she scarcely
looked more than twelve. There were the colourless
face, the deep sad eyes, the mouth that seemed
never to have smiled, of the Tiny of years gone
by ; but in addition there was the painful look
that an overworked brain gives to the face of
earnest womanhood. There was the wasted figure
of one who had laboured too young and too anxiously
; but still there was the finely-shaped head
and forehead of genius. Shrinking and delicate as
ever, she was even shy and reserved with Jessie,
and it was with much effort that the latter succeeded
in making her confess that she and her
mother were frequently in distress.

My dear Tiny," said Jessie, putting her arm
round the trembling girl, and drawing her to her
side on the sofa, " does Uncle Timothy still continue
to assist you?"

He would do so, but we would rather he did
not," said Tiny, hesitating.

"Do you mean to say that you now live on
your own resources?"

People said that Mr. Barnard kept us and we
knew we had no right to be burdens upon his goodness
; so my mother told him that we were now
able to support ourselves and so indeed we are."

And has Uncle Timothy given you up?"

Oh no, he has frequently sent us money in a
way that we could not refuse ; still we would prefer
his not doing so, for Mrs. Hicks finds it out, and
tells some friends she has near us, who tell the
parents of some of our little scholars, and so we
lose the children, or perhaps our needlework ; and
those who would be our friends look coldly on us.
There is some mystery which I do not understand."


' And so," said Jessie, '' you toil, I fear, beyond
your strength ?"

"Not more than I have seen you do, Jessie,
nor half as much, every day of your life. Whenever
I lose courage I think of you, and am comforted
and strengthened. Besides, we do very well
now. It is my own fault if I look pale. I cannot
give up drawing, and I work at it whenever I have
a spare hour."

Is not your mother's health so bad as sometimes
to prevent her working ? "

Very seldom ; I tell her that she ought to refrain,
but she is never idle as long as she is able to
hold a needle or hear a child's lesson, I fear she
suffers much very often, but she never complains.
She is very good, and if it were not for me, would,
I think, be glad to go to heaven, to my father."

Jessie looked with pity on the fair, fragile girl
beside her, and wondered, as every one else does
in such cases, what was to become of her, forgetting
for the moment that the young and desolate
are always the especial care of One who is powerful
to shield. She felt herself strengthened and gratified
by the thought that her own weak endeavours
to do her duty had been encouragement to
one following in the path of difficulty that she had
trodden. They could not be long alone together,
as Uncle Timothy sent to say he wished Mrs.
Eveleigh and Tiny to come to him for a short
space, which they did, and were so much affected
by finding him so reduced, that when they left
him it was with difficulty that Mrs. Eveleigh could
compose herself at all. She felt that the life of the
only true friend and benefactor she had was apparently
soon to be sacrificed to the cause of humanity,
and she could only think what would be
her own desolation, and that of Tiny, when he was
gone.

Pynsent proved the best comforter.

'' I do not at all despair of my uncle. Madam,"
he said : " his recovery must be slow  his blindness,
for some time at least, certain, but I have
great hope that he may be spared."

' God bless you for the words. Sir !" said Mrs.
Eveleigh ; " we have suffered dreadful anxiety about
him of late, and would have gladly come to nurse
him if we had been allowed."

Of that we have no doubt, and only wish you
had been here ; although we must be just enough
to allow that Mrs. Hicks has not neglected him."

Hang Mrs. Hicks !" said Uncle James, coming
into the room suddenly. " Pynsent, Brother Timothy
wants you. Well, my little Tiny, I suppose
I am still a privileged old fellow, and may give you
a kiss. You know I am married now. DonH tell
Mrs. Barnard when you come to see us."

Uncle James took Tiny in his arms, as he used
to do the Tiny of old, and would have seated heron
his knee, had not the slight confusion of the
shy girl awakened him to the consciousness of her
being very nearly, if not quite a young woman.

Dang my buttons, if the child isnH grown ! "
he exclaimed : ' I never expected you to grow, my
dear. But you are Tiny still," he added, stroking
her hair, " and remember if you canst exactly keep

my house now, seeing I have got a  house  hem
wife, you can come and get rosy amongst us.
You were always a favourite with Miss Betsey 
Mrs. Barnard I mean."

Thank you. Sir," said Tiny.

Call me Uncle James, as you used, my dear ;
I hate being ' stirred.' And you. Ma'am : it might
do you good to come into the country. Jessie,
my dear, what do you think ?"

"I am sure it would. Uncle, if Mrs. Eveleigh
could come. I should be very glad to see her at
Fairfield."

Mrs. Eveleigh could only answer by tears ; and
Tiny, perceiving that she looked faint and ill, proposed
leaving. They were pressed to remain the
day, but declined. Uncle James rang the bell.

tell the coachman to get my brother's carriage
ready to take these ladies home," he said, as
Mrs. Hicks appeared.

"Ladies, indeed!" muttered Mrs. Hicks, as she
went, unwillingly enough, to do his bidding.

Come whenever you can," said Jessie to Tiny.
I will go and see you also when I am able, and
Pynsent shall visit your mother until Uncle Timothy
is able to do so again."

"Thank you," murmured Tiny, as she pressed
Jessie's hand.

Another glass of wine Ma'am, before you go'
said Uncle James, resolutely putting the wine into
Mrs. Eveleigh's hand. ' And you too. Tiny ; you
must both of you drink Brother Timothy's recovery."


This could not be refused, and the health was
drunk in silent prayers.

Good bye, my dear ; another kiss," said Uncle
James, fumbling very much with something in his
hand, which he at last managed to squeeze into
Tiny's. " From Mrs. Barnard, my dear." It was
a five pound-note. Uncle James always fancied
he was made of money ; so did Uncle Timothy ;
it was a family failing. " More in the bank to
carry us home," he muttered to himself.

Tiny had no time to remonstrate. She was in
the carriage, and on her way home, before she well
knew what her good friend had done.

It makes one melancholy to look at her," said
Uncle James. " God help 'em, poor hearts ! I
wonder who they are, and how on earth Brother
Timothy picked 'em up."

CHAPTER XXXIII.

"But if there be one attribute divine
With greater lustre than the rest can shine,
'Tis goodness which we every moment see
The Godhead exercise with such delight ;

It seems, it only seems to be
The best-beloved perfection of the Deity,
And more than infinite."  Pomfret.

Some women seem to have been sent into this world
on purpose to become nurses of the sick. They
have an especial aptitude for the duty and set
about it as if they liked it. Jessie was one of
them. She was evidently born not only for the
nursing, but the healing art. Under her care
Uncle Timothy made rapid progress, compared
with his previous tardy steps. Pynsent also must
have his share of credit. Patience and skill,
helped oil by affection, do wonders. The physician
who attended his uncle complimented him highly,
and thought it a pity his talents should be buried
in a country practice. But a new world was opening
before him, almost without his seeking it.
Providence was working for him what duty and

affection had forbidden him to work for himself.
The physician insisted on relinquishing to him the
patients he had hitherto attended for his uncle
and he was thus thrown at once, into an extensive
London practice,  the very height of his ambition.
But his youth ! he knew that many patients who
had been accustomed to his uncles wig and cane
would object to him because he had neither; and
would look upon him as a doubtful doctor, even
though he was simply a substitute. Moreover
Pynsent was a sufficiently well-looking young man,
with hair inclining to be curly and whiskers very
decidedly crisp, and with a comical cast of countenance,
that, even at its gravest, wore a smile 
half satirical, half humorous. He was not handsome,
nor would you have fallen in love with him
at first sight, fair ladies ; yet, had you sound good
sense and discrimination, you might have felt disposed
to do so on an intimate acquaintance. Some
of you will wonder why we talk of his youth, and
may remind us that he must be past thirty. But
that is young compared with Uncle Timothy, and
he looked younger than he was.

"Miss Primmerton has sent for Mr. Barnard,
Maam," said Mrs. Hicks, addressing Jessie in a
whisper, who was standing at one end of her
uncle's room, whilst Pynsent was sitting by his

bedside talking to him. Uncle Timothy overheard.


Miss Primmerton ! " he said. ' You had better
ask Dr. Manson. You are too young. She is
very particulars 

To come directly Sir, as one of the young
ladies is very ills said Mrs. Hicks.

" Lend me your coat and sig, Uncles said Present.
Mrs. Hicks, where are the coat and wig?"

' In that drawer, Sir," was the answer.

Pynsent was at the drawer in a moment, and
had taken out those articles, before any one could
interfere. Just as Jessie was exclaiming, " Do not
be so foolish, Pynsent," and Uncle Timothy was
laughing his very first laugh, he had put on the
wig, and was putting on the coat.

Now come with me, Jessie, into a lighter
room, and see how I look," he said. " Stop a
minute. Go downstairs to Uncle James, and I
will arrange my attire before my mirror."

He left the room, followed by Jessie, exclaiming
at his folly. She went to her Uncle James however,
who was in the library, and after having been
there a short time, was diverted at seeing Present
enter, transformed according to his professed
intention. Still more diverted was she at seeing
Uncle James rise ceremoniously, and with some

confusion at the sight of a stranger as he supposed
make a low bow. To sustain the joke Jessie
rose, and, with a slight inclination of the body,
placed a chair. Pynsent seated himself, studiously
averting his face from his uncle. The pantomime
continued a little space, when Uncle James, looking
at Jessie, motioned her to speak. She shook
her head. He found himself compelled to begin.

I beg your pardon. Sir ; perhaps you wish to
see my brother. I am sorry to say he is very ill.

The stranger bowed his head.

Could I take any message, Sir?"

No reply.

'' The dickens is in it, he must be deaf and
dumb," muttered Uncle James. " Jessie, suppose
you call Pynsent."

Jessie could no longer keep her countenance.
Uncle James looked more narrowly at the coat
and wig.

"Impossible!" he exclaimed, in great alarm.
Brother ! Brother Timothy ! are you all mad ?"

Deaf and dumb. Uncle ; that's all," said Present,
rising from his chair, and standing in an imposing
attitude before his uncle.

Dang my buttons. Sir, what's this ! I declare
you've frightened me out of a year's growth. "Why
you look fifty to a day."

VOL. III. c

' Then I shall just do for Miss Primmerton/'
said Pynsent.

You could not be so absurd said Jessie,
laughing heartily as she remarked the curious
transformation made in her brother. He really
did look years older, in the trim wig, under which
he had, with some difficulty, pressed his hair, and
the straight brown coat, into which he had compressed
his body.

I certainly shall go as I am. I have cut off a
quantity of hair, which I must say I rather regret ;
but now the wig fits me admirably. I don't think
either of the young ladies will fall in love with
me. This wig may be worth five hundred a year
to me,  who knows ? Where is the gold-headed
cane ? There ! now I am complete. Good morning
to you. Ma'am ;" and Pynsent made his exit
with a low bow, entered his uncle's carriage, that
was standing at the door, and drove off to Miss
Primmerton's.

When he returned. Uncle James and Jessie both
hastened to him to know the result.

Capital ! " said he. '' I introduced myself asa
nephew of Mr. Barnard's ; said I was attending
his patients for him during a severe illness; and
was happy to have the honour of waiting on Miss
Primmerton. You should have seen the bow I

made when I composed and delivered those last
words. ' Nephew ! ' said Miss Primmerton incredulously
: it was evident that politeness alone
prevented her suggesting the possibility of my
having made a mistake in my own identity, and
being his grandfather : ' it is not possible that you
can be Miss Anna Burtons brothers I never
thought of this relationship, but bowed my assent
and muttered something about considerable difference
of age. However , I need not have feared;
she evidently considered me quite safe. It was
not flattering to think that a mere wig could make
one look so old,  a wig, too, that really makes
Uncle Timothy look young. I was half inclined
to abjure it, when I saw the pretty young lady I
was to do my best to cure. I made rather more
fuss than was necessary, of course,, about moving
her from the quarters in which her companions
slept, but did not think the fever likely to be infectious,
and so quieted Miss Primmertons fears in
the blandest voice I could assume. It was so ridiculous
! I could think of nothing but Annans
stories of Puss, and the Happy Family, and I
quite longed to ask my pretty patient what sobriquet
she bore. Miss Primmerton made many inquiries
after Uncle Timothy and Anna, in both of
whom she seemed really interested. She also

c2

asked for you , Jessie; and when I told her you
were in London, she expressed her intention of
doing herself the pleasure of making your acquaintances
I think of confiding in Miss Prim-merton,
that I may ask her to give me a few lessons
in polite speaking. I am sure it would be a
fortune to a medical man to get up a few of those
well-turned periods, so essential to make an impression.
Imagine the effect one might produce
by such a phrase as, ' Allow me the honour of feeling
your pulse f or, ' Permit me to have a view of
your tongue ;'  I trust your indisposition is beginning
to abate /  I have extreme pleasure in communicating
to you the delightful fact that you are
out of danger.' But I must go and see Uncle
Timothy, and then more patients. I never was so
happy in my life."

Because you never before were in your proper
element," said Jessie, as her brother left the room.
' Oh, Uncle ! what a pity it is that he should be
shut up in the country, when he does so long for
an active London practice, and is really so well
suited to it!"

"Ay, Jessie," said Uncle James, "I never
thought so until this trip to London. He is quite
another chap here : so brisk ! in such capital
spirits, and so much more agreeable ! to say nothing

of his learning. I was dumb foundered the
other day when I heard him and Dr. Manson disputing
about some case they disagreed upon. Pyn
didnH give in a bit but stood his ground like a
hero, and gave chapter and verse for all he argued
about until Dr. Manson began to waver. Afterwards
the Doctor said to me  That's a fine
clever, sensible fellow, that nephew of yours. He
ought not to leave town. We want such clear-headed,
active men here, and I should be very glad
to give him a lift.' "

' And that from one of the cleverest men in
England ! " said Jessie. " He shall not return to
Fairfield, if I can help it."

He did not return to Fairfield. Circumstances
worked a change in Pynsent's destiny, which,
whilst it was rejoiced in by all for his sake, was
sadly deplored for that of his uncle. Mr. Barnard
did not die ; but so long and painful was his
illness, that he could scarcely be said to recover.
It left him, not only weakened in body and mind,
but almost blind. As all the principal physicians
and surgeons in London were his friends, so they
all visited him as such, and, although not all professionally
attentive to him, still most of them saw
him from time to time, when he was able to admit
them. There was but one opinion of his state when

he became convalescent, and that was, that the only
chance of his recovering either health or sight was
his relinquishing all professional duty, and leaving
London until he regained them. He had worked
too hard, both bodily and mentally, for thirty long
years ; and this severe illness had brought about
at once what mere labour would in a few years
have done without it  the prostration and exhaustion
of overwrought faculties. He was as gentle
as a child, and appeared to have also returned to
his childhood. He frequently forgot the events
that happened to him as yesterday, but had a keen
remembrance of everything that had occurred at
Fairfield from his boyhood. His interest in his
profession had abated, and he seemed quite willing,
and even pleased, that Pynsent should take
his position. When it was proposed to him
to return with his brother and niece to Fairfield,
and to allow his nephew to remain in his place
for a time, he pressed Jessiess hand, and said,
smiling, that it was the very thing he wished;
that he was good for nothing now but to feed her
poultry, and to wander about the old place. He
forgot, for the moment, that he was nearly blind.

And so it was settled ; but there was much to
arrange before the change of plans could take place.
With her usual prudence, Jessie proposed that the

state of her uncles affairs should be looked into
before Pynsent entered upon what might possibly
be a permanent engagement, in a sphere so new to
him. Little satisfactory intelligence could be gained
from Uncle Timothy, beyond the fact that he had
never saved money. The world looked upon him
as a rich man, but his riches were, literally as well
as figuratively, laid up - in the kingdom of heaven."
There he must have had a large store, since all the
proceeds of his very considerable profession had
been spent in charity as he received them. Every
year he had intended to lay by a portion of his income
for his nephews and nieces, and his little protegee
Tiny, but each year had brought its customary
demands on his purse, and he never found that he
had more than enough money to pay his annual
subscriptions, daily charities, and the expenses of
his household. The latter, upon examination, were
found to have been enormous ; and there was little
doubt but that his apparently faithful old servants
had been making their fortunes, whilst he was
spending his. There were a great many book-debts,
which, if paid, would realize a considerable
sum of money ; and there were the house and furniture,
both of which were Mr. Barnardss private
property : and this was all.

It took some weeks to come to a clear understanding

of these matters but it was at last, arrived
at. Uncle Timotliy's health was too precarious
and too precious to admit of his being much
consulted, and he was not a man of business beyond
his profession. Fortunately he had been
always most particular in his professional accounts,
though not in sending them in. When they tried
gently to make him understand the state of his
affairs, he begged them to do what was best, and
when he began work again, he said, he would begin
to put by for a rainy day. He did not seem
to have the slightest regard for money, and only
regretted his carelessness because it prevented his
providing for Tiny, and continuing his allowance
to Charles.

Mrs. Hicks, too," he said, " poor Mrs. Hicks !
what is to become of her ?"

Brother, you must be a baby and an innocent
'/' said Uncle James, letting escape the wrath
that had long been bottled up; "did not Mrs.
Hicks leave us in ignorance of your illness, because
she had good reasons for wishing to keep you all
to herself? has she not made a fortune by you ?
Dang my buttons, if there hasn't been bread and
meat enough in your house in one year to keep
Fairfield, labourers and all ! Jessie says so. Where
do you think it has gone ? Oh ! bachelors ought to

marry. I never knew the necessity of matrimony
till I had the happiness of taking my excellent wife
for better for worse. I have saved a fortune already,
Tim ; and as soon as you get well, we will
look you out a wife : between ourselves, I believe
Mrs. Hicks had her eye upon you V

Brother ! Brother V said Uncle Timothy, with
such a hopeless tone of voice that Jessie interfered
to prevent mischief.

In due course of time they were rid of Mrs.
Hicks ; her tears and protestations were tremendous,
when she received a civil but decided notice
from Jessie, who told her that, as her uncle was
going into the country, and his affairs were in a
very unsettled state, he would not need her services
any longer. Finding that Jessie was not to be
bought over by assurances of attachment, she
rushed up to her master, and asked if it was his
intention to part with his faithful servant, who
had lived only for him for so many years.

My good Mrs. Hicks !" interjected Uncle Timothy
; " perhaps when I am better  '

Odds bodkins, Maam ! are you mistress in
my brother's house, or his niece?" began Uncle
James.

Uncle !" said Pynsent, who was fortunately present.
" Now, Mrs. Hicks, you will be so good as

c 3

to come with me, and we will just talk matters
over quietly," turning to that offended matron, and
gently but firmly taking her out of the room into
a dressing-room. Closing the door, he continued
in a matter-of-fact way :  " You see, Mrs. Hicks,
that, from various wonderful causes, my uncle's
affairs are in a bad way. For a single man, we think
he has lived, to say the least, very extravagantly ;
but I suppose he kept a great deal of company :
am I right, Mrs. Hicks ?''

'' Hem ! I cannot say that my master ever gave
large parties," said Mrs. Hicks evasively.

At all events," continued Pynsent quietly, " his
housekeeping has cost him enormous sums, and it
may be found necessary to make more minute inquiries,
 for our satisfaction, you understand, as
well as for yours,  into the various ways in which
they have been spent. You perceive, Mrs. Hicks,
that he will not require a housekeeper at  fifty
pounds a year, is it not ?  when he will perhaps not
have more than a hundred for himself. You understand?"


Perfectly, Sir. I am sure I never could have
believed ! I declare I am heart-broken ! Only to
think ! and everybody thought him as rich as ever
could be. Poor gentleman ! and when do you
think he will go into the country. Sir ? and when

do you suppose I had better leave ? I am at the
commands of the family I am sure ; only, as a lone
woman, you see, I must have an eye to myself."

Precisely, Mrs. Hicks. As the French proverb
says,  We should have one eye in town, and the
other in the country do you think you could
manage to keep one eye in Somersetshire, and the
other in London ?'

Mrs. Hicks did not quite know what to make of
Pynsent. " Whatever you think best, I am sure,
Sir ; but you see, I am a lone woman, a widow,
and must set myself up in some small way : I
should never have the heart to take another situation.
My poor, dear master !"

Thereupon Mrs. Hicks began to cry.
We will not talk longer upon this painful subject,
Mrs. Hicks," said Pynsent ; " I see it is too
much for you; but you will just look over your 
 for your own satisfaction  and let us
have some idea of the yearly housekeeping expenses.
By the way, Mrs. Hicks, was the person
you sent the letters to the post by trustworthy ?
it was so odd that so many miscarried. Will you
tell me who was your messenger ?"

' Dear Sir ! I can't remember exactly ; I was
in such a fluster all day long. Poor master so ill !
I often ran with 'em myself, or gave 'em to anybody
I could see."

"Rather careless considering your experience
and years Mrs. Hicks. 'Will you excuse my just
calling my sister ? whilst we are upon business, I
think she has a question or two to ask.'

Pynsent called Jessie, who came immediately.

Mrs. Hicks quite understands the necessity of
leaving, Jessie," said he; "but I thought you
might wish to make those inquiries before she does
so, and there is nothing like the present time."

It is about Miss Eveleigh," said Jessie ; " I
wish to know upon what grounds you speak disparagingly
of her and her mother, and why you prevented
them from seeing my uncle ?"

' Miss ' indeed !" said Mrs. Hicks in a tone of
extreme disdain; but suddenly changing her tactics,
she added, " I should think it beneath me, Maam,
to talk of them kind of people. Nobody knows
nothing of em, and I am of opinion they are no
great things."

But if you know nothing of them," said Jessie,
how can you form any opinion of them ?"

Wash they supported by master, Maam, ina
most unbecoming way ?"

I suppose that was your master's affair, Mrs.
Hicks," said Pynsent, for the first time waxing
warm ; " and I wish you to know that there are
such things as actions for slander. I have been

once or twice to see Mrs. Eveleigli professionally,
and some few other of my uncles poor patients
in that locality, and I have had some hints that
not only Mrs. and Miss EveleigVs names, but also
that of my uncle, have been disrespectfully mentioned,
and that in quarters where you are well
known. I have no doubt that your attachment for
my uncle will lead you to contradict all reports to
his discredit ; and if you have no opportunity of
doing so, I shall certainly employ legal means to
discover the real authors of the slander. 

I am sure I knows nothing about it," said
Mrs. Hicks, "and never wishes to see either of
them females any more."

"Very probably not," said Pynsent, resuming
his calm decision ; " still you may see the friends
you have in the neighbourhood, and simply give
them to understand there can be no foundation for
the vile reports concerning my uncle and Mrs.
and Miss Eveleigh. Also, that I, as his nephew,
and representative for the time being, will take
sure means of putting a stop to them, if their circulators
do not. You understand, Mrs. Hicks?"
Certainly, Sir," was the reply of that worthy,
who suddenly turned very pale.

I think we have nothing more to say at present,"
said Pynsent, " therefore need not detain
you."

Mrs. Hicks made a very hasty exit, and not
many days afterwards finally quitted the house.
Her excuse for her sudden departure was the
shattered state of her nerves, and as nothing
better was desired by the household, she was permitted
to take her leave unmolested. She paid
her master a farewell visit, and expended a due
proportion of salt-water on the occasion. He, poor
man ! repeated his hope that, when he came back,
she might return to him. In the course of a few
months she might have been seen presiding in a
neat cook-shop, of which she was mistress, and the
contents of which were doubtless feathers plucked
from her good master's plumage. Let her pass :
domestic servants are no longer what they were
in less free-and-easy times.

The house in Duke-street was let famished fora
lodging-house, by the year, and Pynsent was to
be the first lodger. He rented the parlours,  in
other words, his uncle's dining-room and library,
and a couple of good airy bedrooms at the top
of the house. The rent was thus secured to his
uncle, and would prevent his feeling dependent
during his residence at Fairfield. Thus was Present
suddenly launched upon the great London
sea, to make a voyage after fame and fortune,
which he had long desired to undertake, but had

never before ventured upon. He had moreover
to begin the voyage on his own resources, and
without any extraneous aid either of money or
recommendation, since his Uncle Timothy was in
no state to leave him anything but his own good
name,  an honourable legacy, it is true, and one
that stood him in good stead.

The most painful thing connected vrith this
general change in the family plans and prospects
was the leaving Tiny behind, deprived of the only
protector that she had in the world. The last interview
was a very melancholy one. During her
stay in London, Jessie had managed to add greatly
to the happiness, not only of Tiny, whom she
loved, but of Mrs. Eveleigh, whom she sincerely
pitied. She had been to see them several times,
and, without appearing to notice anything particularly,
had taken good account of the straitened
circumstances in which they were placed. She
had had them with her as much as possible, and by
various manoeuvres had done her best to aid them.
But Jessie s means were very small, and it was
impossible to draw any longer on her Uncle
Timothy, as, during the settlement of his affairs,
no fresh expenses could be incurred.

You will write to us whenever you are in
trouble or difficulty, my dear Tiny,' said Jessie

the day before she was to leave London, "and
whenever you can get away, you will come to us."

Tiny sat quietly in a shadowy corner of the
library, her hair falling over a face as pale and
delicate as a snowdrop. She did not answer, for
she could not ; but no trace of emotion was visible
on her countenance : she had been long accustomed
to conceal her feelings.

"Come to the Grange, my dear, and bring
your mother with you," said Uncle James ; " we
will put some colour into your cheeks."

"Thank you. Sir," was the reply, "but my
mother could not well bear a long journey, and I
cannot leave her."

Promise me. Tiny," said Jessie, " that you will
not hesitate to send for Pynsent whenever you
want advice or help. I assure you that he would
be most glad to go to you at any time. You
know you are quite one of us, dear, and must
therefore treat us as brothers and sisters."

"I will! I will!" said Tiny.

Here Uncle James suddenly left the room.

"Tiny," said Jessie, "is there anything in the
world I can do for you ?"

Nothing ! nothing ! I fear  I think  my poor,
poor mother will not live long; and then  and
then  " Here Tiny burst into tears.

Jessie felt that the words were but too true.
She rose and folded the poor girl in her arms.
' And theUj love you can come to us for comfort
as well as to One who will never forsake you."

I could not burden you Jessie who have already
much anxiety; but I will earn my bread
and my poor mother's as long as she lives."

Tiny, is your mother very irritable ? Forgive
my asking, but there seems a something a degree
of unkindness  sometimes in her manner to you,
that is unaccountable."

Oh !" said Tiny, hesitating, " it is scarcely
unkindness. She is very ill ; she does not know
what she says ; and when we are without money,
she sometimes hints that were it not for me she
might have been differently circumstanced. But
the next moment she repents, and begs me to
forgive her hastiness. Another thing annoys her :
she cannot bear to see me paint. She says it is
not only loss of time, bat that it ruins my health ;
and, Jessie, to give up painting would be to give
up half my life. If your brother Charles were
here, he could understand me, but no one else can.
It is really more than meat and drink to me. I
suppose I inherit it from my father, who was, you
know, an artist ; but I cannot help it. If you
would ask your brother to name me to any one

who wants a drawing mistress should lie have an
opportunity I might make money by my art.
The little pupils that I had have left the neighbourhood,
and I have now no recommendation, in
my mother's eyes, to pursue the study. She says
it half killed my father, and will kill me. I almost
wish it would : it would be a happy death to die
painting a fine picture."

Jessie looked on the apparently passionless face
of the young artist with astonishment. There was
little outward symptom of the fire within : a bright
ray from the deep eye, as she uttered the last sentence,
was all the sign of enthusiasm that she betrayed.


I wish I could make you happy. Tiny'' Jessie
said.

' I try to be contented, and am thankful," she
replied, 'but my soul will soon be alone again,
now you are going; but I must return to my
mother, and I have not seen your uncle. Oh,
Jessie ! Jessie ! I cannot bid him good-bye, I cannot
!"

Only for a time, dear ; and you know not yet
what the Almighty may have in store for you. It
will all be made clear to you if you trust in Him."

"I do, Jessie, but my faith is young, and it
sometimes wavers. I suppose it is hard for those

to believe wholly who see little but the dark side
of things. Shall we go to your uncle ?

This abrupt termination of the conversation led
Jessie to perceive, what she had more than once
done before, even in the childhood of the unfortunate
Tiny, a degree of self-command that was
very remarkable. No sooner did she appear to be
about to give way to feeling of any kind, than she
checked, by some strong mental effort, the inclination
to do so, and became instantly calm and passionless
as a statue. The reason of this Jessie guessed.
Tiny had the artist temperament,  strong feelings
by nature, great talents, and acute sensibility:
but Mrs. Eveleigh had none of this, and had neither
understood nor encouraged it in her young
charge. She was a matter-of-fact, everyday woman,
who was, happily for herself, contented when
she had food and raiment, and desirous to see
Tiny contented also. As she thought, for her
good, she discouraged all notions in Tiny that she
considered likely to raise her mind above her station
in life; and she looked upon painting, as a
profession, as certain starvation. Thus Tiny had
been compelled all her life to restrain every thought
or feeling that rose beyond Mrs. Eveleighs daily
atmosphere, and to keep them concealed in her
own breast.

It was dreadful to see them burst forth. Poor
child ! in vain was all her self-command and resolution
when she went to bid farewell to her
benefactor: they were quite overcome. Uncle
Timothy also, who had acquired almost paternal
feelings towards the child who had been cast upon
his bounty, was scarcely less moved.

He was sitting in an easy-chair, and looked very
pale and feeble. The room was partially darkened,
and a large green shade veiled his kind grey
eyes. Pynsent was by his side when Jessie and
Tiny entered the room, and Uncle James was
vainly endeavouring to read the newspaper by the
crevice in the half-opened shutter.

Tiny is come to see you, whispered Jessie, as
she pushed a low seat close to her uncle, for the
service of his young friend.

Tiny was soon seated, and her small hand
clasped in the thin, white fingers of the invalid.
Placed as they both were in shadow, they looked
like two pale spectres in an old picture. Jessie
stood behind her uncle's chair, and Pynsent sat
looking with interest at Tiny, through the hand
that shaded his eyes. Tiny could not speak, but
thoughts of future sorrow were busy in her mind.
She felt as if her best friend  almost her only
friend  was about to be removed from her forever.


If I do not come to you you must come tome,
Tiny," said Uncle Timothy ; " remember, you
belong to us'

A low sob was the only answer. Jessie feared
that her uncle might be excited by any demonstrations
of emotion, and whispered to Tiny that
perhaps she had better not remain. She rose,
and, bending over her benefactor, murmured, "I
must go;" and then, after a moment's pause,
Thank you, thank you for all !" Uncle Timothy
put his arm round her, and kissed her tenderly,
retaining her for a short time in his embrace ; he
then said " God bless you, my love !" and released
her.

Tiny hurried out of the room, followed by Jessie,
and went down into the library. Here she buried
her face in the pillows of the sofa, and sobbed
violently. Grief was stronger for once than her
self-command. The sobs were followed by hysterics,
and the hysterics were accompanied by slight
convulsions, that greatly alarmed Jessie. She
called Pynsent, who administered the usual remedies,
but did not succeed in quieting the convulsions
for some time. It was most painful to see
her wring her hands and turn her eyes upwards,
as if supplicating help ; and to hear her low sobs
or groans, as if actual agony were tearing her

heart. As soon as some degree of consciousness
returned Pynsent spoke to her gently but firmly,
and told her that she must gain the victory over
herself. " I will ! I will V she said, with an effort
that brought the blood to her pale cheeks, and
caused her to clench her teeth and hands. Present
was almost frightened at seeing the effects of
his words. As if by a miracle, the convulsions
ceased suddenly, and the slight form and the pale
young face became almost rigid.

I am sorry  forgive me V' were the first words ;
and there was no longer any visible emotion in
the countenance.

Speak to her kindly  make her cry,' he whispered
to Jessie.

Jessie put her arms round her, kissed her, and
let her own warm tears fall on her face.

 Dearest Tiny ! dear child!" she said, "Uncle
Timothy is better ; God will spare him to us. I
will write to you, and Pynsent will go and see you
frequently, will you not, Pynsent ?"

If Tiny will let me, said Pynsent, taking the
poor child's hand and pressing it affectionately.
"You and your mother must look upon me as
your uncle now. Tiny ; you have no idea how respectable
and old I look in the wig."

The real affection and tenderness of Jessie, and

the evident sympathy and goodwill of Pynsent,
produced the desired effect. The attempt at thanks
for the offer, and smile at the jest of the latter,
brought the burst of tears that was so necessary
to relieve the burdened heart. Tiny wept long in
her friend s arms, who, understanding her nature
well, did not try to comfort her. Pynsent left
left them until he thought Tiny must have recovered,
and then returned with a glass of wine,
which he insisted on her drinking.

You must come and see me, Tiny, he said,
'*when I am housekeeper, and report to Jessie
how I behave myself. And now, if you really
must return home today, perhaps you had better
let me escort you. Is not London making me
gallant already ? My smart new Hansom is not
ready yet, and  and  we have put down our carriage;
so you must take part in a cab for this
once. It is smarter than the Fairfield car, after
aU."

Tiny and he departed, and he did not leave her
until he had placed her safely under Mrs. Eveleigh's
protection, and recommended that good lady to keep
her as quiet and as much at ease as she could, fora
day or two. He also left various nostrums for
both, and promised to repeat his visit as soon as
possible.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

How they so softly rest.
All, all the holy dead,
Unto whose dwelling-place
Now doth my soul draw near !
How they so softly rest,
All in their sent graves,
Deep to corruption
Slowly down-sinking."

Translated from Klopstock.

A FEW months after Pynsent's installation into all
the honours and solitariness of bachelorhood he
might have been seen, after a hard dayes work,
reposing at his ease in his uncles arm-chair. He
was looking very thoughtful, and, for him, sentimental.
But before we glance into his mind, and
see, with our magic glass, what is passing there,
we will inform the reader of his professional prospects.
They are decidedly favourable. The
greater portion of his nucleus regular patients
have quietly transferred themselves to his care,
and do not seem to be conscious of having made

a change for the worse. He is a favourite with
most of thenij and has already gained some reputation
for skill amongst his brethren of the faculty.
It is not to be supposed that he has
stepped at once into his nucleus profession : far
from it  he has to work his way like the rest of
the world ; but, the name of Barnard being
famous, and Duke-street still besieged with applications
for advice, Pynsent naturally becomes
more readily known than most men making a
start in the London world. When his uncle is
sent for, he goes as his deputy; is clever, liked,
and consequently employed. In short, he is getting
on. Amongst the poor he is as great a favourite
as his uncle was, and as much called upon for his
aid. He does not refuse it, and may now as frequently
be seen amidst the dark alleys of crowded
London as he was formerly in the cottages of the
country poor.

But on this particular evening Pynsent feels
lonely. Although he likes his profession, he does
not like visiting, or care over-much for play going
or sight-seeing ; so he stays at home, and wonders
why he feels so solitary. He has just received
good accounts from Fairfield. All are getting on
comfortably there, and Uncle Timothy is gaining
health, though not, as yet, eyesight. As he has

VOL. III. D

some portion of strength of mind and character,
lie takes himself to task thus ; 

And am I, Pynsent Burton, going to make a
fool of myself at thirty-five years of age, when I
was able to conquer my inclinations at twenty-five
?  I, who have always declared love to be a
passion, when carried to excess, beneath the dignity
of man ? And what is carrying it to excess ?
Letting it make you do what reason and commonsense
condemn. Had I given way to it years ago,
I might have induced the nicest girl I ever knew
to sacrifice herself to me, perhaps  but no ; I do
not think she cared for me, or she would not have
married so soon. However, had I succeeded, I
should have acted dishonourably by taking advantage
of the inexperience of a young girl who
was visiting under my own roof, and who was
above me both in fortune and position. Thank
God, I was spared that shame. I was heartily
proud of my victory over the universal passion,
and felt sure that, once gained, I should never
need to fight the battle again. Shame on thee
for a coward, Pynsent Burton ! Thou art yielding
once more to the enemy. I cannot go to visit a
poor invalid mother, and watch the virtuous exertions
and tender beauty of her child, without
falling in love ! Tush ! I hate the vulgar term !

And she only seventeen ! And I have had her in
my arms when I was a man and she almost an
infant. It is too absurd. And yet I cannot look
upon her without monstrous and ridiculous emotion.
I never saw such endurance, talent, and
loveliness united in a human being : she is as good
and patient as Jessie, with the addition of a grace
that is absolutely divine. Bah ! I am getting
worse than sentimental. A child ! a mere child !
This morning, when she asked me, with that sad
voice, and sadder face, whether there were any
hope, and seemed to hang upon my answer as if
her life were in my power, I had almost asked her
to be my wife. I, a poor surgeon, struggling for
my uncle, without a profession or a penny of my
own ; and she, a girl whose very birth seems uncertain,
for I am persuaded she cannot be Mrs.
Eveleighs daughter. I suppose I have some of
that cursed family pride in me after all; for I
could not marry a girl of doubtful birth. Jessie
always said I was proud, and so, it seems, I am.
Still Tiny, with her talents, dignity, and grace,
might become a coronet. And I, a poor surgeon,
hesitate to marry her ! What strange anomalies
we are ! But I cannot marry any one, so why
should I debate the point. When poor Mrs.
Eveleigh is gone. Tiny must go to Fairfield, and

D 2

Knonamov.

they will take care of her there. Though I doubt
whether her pride would allow her to be dependent
on any one. There it is again ! Pride ! pride !
turn where one will. Alas ! poor human nature !'

It is impossible to say where Pynsents soliloquy
might have taken him next , but it was suddenly
interrupted by the bursting open of the door and
the rushing in of a tall young man.

'charles!"

"Pynsent!"

"My dear fellow!"

My dear brother !"

Tiny pride marriage,, and everything else was
forgotten in the warm pressure of the hand and
hearty greeting that followed these interjectional
exclamations. Charles had returned, after five
or six years of absence, and it was no wonder that
there was no need of further soliloquy.

Charles, at five-and-twenty, is no longer the
pale, timid boy we remember him. Pale to be
sure he is still, but firm and manly. More than
ever does his countenance bear the stamp of toil
and intellect. The hard study of five years is
clearly seen in his thin cheeks and bright, but
somewhat hollow, eyes, and in the early commencement
of those straight lines of thought between
the eyebrows and in the forehead. The

pursuit night and day of the art he loves has not
increased his stature, but it has given an air of decision
and dignity to his carriage and manner that
the love of the great and beautiful must always
give. The slight lameness is still perceptible, that
sad legacy of the fever; but scarcely could anyone
who loved him wish it away: it makes him
seem so much more gentle and sensitive than anyone
else. But his heart is resolved and bold
enough. As a soldier for his country, so would
he battle for the noble profession he has chosen.
An historical painter ! Is there any more noble ?
To put upon canvas for immortality the actions of
the great and good, the heroic deeds of history,
or the divine conceptions of the poet ? Such is
the work Charles Burton has to do, and he is
doing it with all his might.

I have already a reputation abroad, he said,
when an hour had been passed in receiving details
of home and family history, and his own plans
were brought forward by his brother ; " and I will
soon earn one at home. I have paintings now
with me that must, without injustice, demand a
place in the Royal Academy, and I am returned
in time for this year's competition. You shall
not see them, Pynsent, until they stand in the
place where they ought to stand. I was offered a

hundred and fifty guineas in Italy for my picture,
but I could not sacrifice the hope of an English
reputation for base gold."

'' My dear fellow, you will find that metal very
useful by-and-by," said Pynsent. " You wil. have
fairly to support yourself now by your profession,
and must try to look upon things in a business
point of view."

I have patrons amongst the most noble of our
countrymen whom I met in Italy, and who have
promised to stand by me whilst I pursue the
branch of art I have chosen."

Don't trust to patrons, my dear fellow : they
will turn their backs upon you at the first jeer or
frown of a Royal Academician. We must stand by
ourselves in this world, as we are sure to fall by
ourselves. Success makes the man. Few patrons
wil stick to you unless you succeed."

Well," said Charles modestly, " I hope I
have self-reliance enough to go my way without
their aid, and rather than turn aside from the one
great object of my life, I wil starve."

It would not take much to starve you, to
judge by your present condition. But we can
have bread and cheese together for the present,
and there is a capital room vacant at the top of
the house for a studio, the identical one you had

before you went abroad, and with a small bedroom
next-door; but I think you had better run down
into the country before you set to work again."

Not until after the Royal Academy opens,
and I know the fate of my pictures. We do not
work fourteen hours a day, study the anatomy of
the human frame like a doctor, live amongst the
masterpieces of Italian and Dutch art for five or
six years, and read like a student at college, to
return home and revel in the country. Painting
has been, and is, life to me. And Tiny  where
and how is she ? Does she show all the love of
art she used to show ? "

Pynsent was not given to blushing, yet he actually
blushed at this sudden mention of a name
that had of late fixed itself in his mind, in spite
of his efforts to keep it out.

She is much as she was," he said, " only
seventeen or eighteen instead of twelve."

Do you know I have been longing to see her
for various reasons : in the first place, for her
own sake, and in the second for paintings sake.
She must have the very face for a picture I am
about to paint."

You may see her whenever you like, doubtless
; but, with a dying mother, and poverty pressing
hard, she is not in a likely condition to sit fora
picture."

Charleses kind heart soon forgot his painting in
sympathy with the child he loved. He questioned
his brother concerning hers but was answered with
so much taciturnity that he resolved to judge for
himself as soon as possible.

And, whilst the night wears away happily in
Duke-street, what is the said Tiny about? Let
us proceed to Peckham and see.

She has just shaken up the pillows of poor Mrs.
Eveleigh's armchair, and made her as comfortable
as she can for the evening hours. She has swept
up the hearth and trimmed the little fire, and, by
drawing the curtains of the small window, has
made the portrait-covered parlour look tolerably
cheerful and warm. She has put a round table by
Mrs. Eveleigh's side, and placed thereon some
jelly and a few books, procured for them by the
kindness of Pynsent, in addition to the workbox
and work already disposed upon it. She has
seated herself, and is preparing to sew a long seam
of a shirt, whilst Mrs. Eveleigh languidly takes
up the guests of the same, and begins, as Hood
says, " to sew them on in a dream."

Mother," says Tiny anxiously, ' pray do not
work tonight. I can finish this shirt, and we have
money enough to go on with for more than a week.
Little Mangy brought me four shillings yesterday,
and Mrs. Spenser owes us four more."

My dear child, we must depend on ourselves
now that Mr. Barnard is gone."

This had been the constant nervous reply of the
poor invalid ever since Uncle Timothy's removal
from London, although Jessie had already sent
them sufficient money to pay their rent, which her
uncle said must be due, and which he, good man,
fancied was paid out of his purse, whereas it was
taken from Jessie's savings.

But tonight, mother  only tonight. You know
it is my birthday, and I am eighteen. Give yourself
a holiday for my sake, and I will read to you."

Eighteen ! eighteen ! " echoed Mrs. Eveleigh,
dropping the work from her fingers. " It is time
now, whilst I have strength. My dear, I Avill not
work tonight. You are eighteen ! Do you love
me. Tiny ? Will you always love me ? Will you
never leave me whilst I live?"

 Love you, Mother !  leave you ! What strange
questions. Of course I love you, and shall never
leave you."

As Tiny said this she rose, and putting her
arms round Mrs. Eveleigh' s neck, kissed her affectionately.
The poor woman wept, and said 

My child, have I acted by you as a mother,
as you have always done by me as a daughter ?
God bless you for it ! "

d3

You have been a tender mother to me always
said Tiny ; " I wish I had a more loving nature,
that I could have returned your tenderness better'

' Will you always call me mother as long as I
am in this worlds and sometimes think of me as
your mother when I am in another ?''

 How can I do otherwise ?'' said Tiny, suddenly
feeling a return of certain suspicions that
had occasionally haunted her through life.

Because you are not my daughter, not my
own, own child''

Not your daughter ! " exclaimed Tiny ; " then
who am I ? what am I ? ''

These questions, now uttered for the first time,
she had often longed to propose before.

I will tell you, my child," said Mrs. Eveleigh ;
" but go first of all to that drawer, in the bureau
of which I have always kept the key, and bring
me all that it contains."

Tiny did as she was bid, and returned with her
arms filled with articles of wearing apparel, and
an old pocket-book in her hands. The latter she
laid upon the table, the rest at Mrs. Eveleigh' s
feet, sides, or wherever there was a convenient
place. Before she had completed her operations
Mrs. Eveleigh had a violent fit of coughing, and
she was compelled to restrain her impatient anxiety

until she had administered jelly, and the irritation
produced by the cough had subsided.

"There, at my feet/ said Mrs. Eveleigh;
your hand in mine, your head against my knees,
that I may still fancy you my own dear child."

Tiny placed herself, with beating heart, upon
the seat indicated, and listened to the sad history
of her birth, and the painful circumstances connected
with it.

When Mrs. Eveleigh told her all that she had
herself been told of her mother's beauty of person
and gentle manners. Tiny wept ; and when she
described her misery and death, she covered her
face with both hands, leant her head upon her
knees, and sobbed aloud. Mrs. Eveleigh did not
believe the pale, calm girl to be capable of such
emotion. When the clothes, sole relics of that
unhappy mother, were given into her keeping, she
dared not raise her eyes to look upon them, so
fearful was the struggle that was going on within.
Finally the old pocket-book was opened, and her
mother's rings, purse, and the fragment of a letter,
with its signature,  Sophia,' drawn forth.

Give me your left hand, poor child'' said Mrs.
Eveleigh with a hoarse voice: "this cameo was
on the wedding-finger, and I will put it upon
yours ; God grant that it help to find your friends.

This wedding-ring was round tier neck, which
makes me hope she was married to your father ;
let me fasten it around your neck, that so you may
always have hope of the same, as I have."

Feebly the weak, sad sufferer uplifted the long
hair of the unfortunate girl, to hang around her
neck the ring, which hope transformed into a sign
of union. Convulsively was it grasped by her, and
pressed to her lips. Then came the fair Italian
characters of the writing on the piece of paper,
which was supposed to have been written and torn
again by her mother, and which proved that mother
to have been a person of education. All this
Tiny endured with bursting heart, but without
uttering a word.

When it was over, Mrs. Eveleigh sank back in
her chair exhausted. There was a long silence, unbroken
except by Tiny's continued low sobbing.
At last, with the fretful selfishness of illness, Mrs.
Eveleigh said 

Ah, I feared it would be so ! You do not love
me, you never loved me. But I am very faint ;
it has been too much for me. Tiny."

Tiny rose quickly. " Mother, my dear Mother,
forgive me. It was so strange, so wonderful ! Two
mothers, yet no mother ! No one, no one belonging
to me ! It is so horrible, so horrible ! "

Tiny fell into Mrs. EveleigVs arms, and buried
her head in her bosom. She was immediately
pressed to a fond but feeble heart.

God bless you, my love ! You called me mother.
God bless you ! "

Mrs. Eveleigh fainted.

Tiny was compelled to rouse herself, and to forget
the real, lost mother, in the anxiety she felt for
the supposed one she was about to lose.

The exertion and excitement of the late conversation
had quite overcome Mrs. Eveleighs small
remaining strength, and it was some time before
she came to herself. When she did so, it was
only to feel obliged to lie down on a bed, from
which she was to rise no more. Tiny had enough
matter for thought and labour in her state ; and
her own sad history was only recalled in those
hours of watching when the poor sufferer slept, or
seemed to sleep.

The following day Pynsent and Charles came.
Pynsent showed his brother into the little parlour,
whilst he tapped at the door of the common ,
where Tiny was, surrounded by five
little pupils. It was just twelve o clock, and she
despatched them at once. Pynsent went into the
room, and heard Tinys unsatisfactory account of
the invalid. He was much struck with the increased

paleness of her own face and the painful
expression of her features.

"You are not well?" he said anxiously.

Quite well , but I have been obliged to sit up
the greater part of the night, as our little servant
had gone home when my mother's attack came
on."

A slight flush overspread the face as the word
Mother" was spoken. Pynsent felt again that
he could have found it in his heart to ask her to
be his wife. Perhaps there was more than usual
interest in his kind, open eyes, for Tiny quickly
said 

Perhaps you will be so good as to go upstairs.
I will run first and prepare my mother ;" and therewith
she left the room, returning speedily with the
request that Pynsent would go to Mrs. Eveleigh.

(( There is some one waiting for you in the
parlour," said Pynsent, as he went upstairs.

It had been agreed between him and Charles
that Tiny should not be told who it was that
awaited her. She had not time to inquire, and
was frightened at the prospect of a stranger. At
last she summoned courage to enter the little parlour.
She saw a tall, thin, gentlemanlike-looking
man standing with his back to the door, earnestly
examining a painting which stood half-finished on

the easel, by the window. It was the head of an
old man, who was in the habit of coming frequently
to ask alms of Tiny, and who, in return for such
trifles as she could bestow, had patiently sat to her
for his picture. The shape of the head and features
were singularly fine, bold, and prominent :
the grey hair was wild and picturesque : the dressa
motley of various kinds and colours. But the
remarkable portion of the face was the eyes, in
which a bright intellect mingled with a strange
and painful insanity. The original of the picture
had been in his youth a player and a poet. Unbefriended
and unknown, he had made no progress
in life. Harmless, but incurable, sensible on some
points, but mad on others, he had been dismissed
in middle age from an asylum, and had spent the
rest of his life in wandering from place to place, a
beggar for his daily bread. Not altogether unhappy,
inasmuch as he frequently met with friends
and benefactors, who, like Tiny, took an interest,
first in the singular appearance of the old man,
and finally in himself. The portrait was wonderfully
clever for a girl of eighteen ; bold and expressive.
The dark countenance and darker background
were relieved by the white hair, and the
bright fragment of a red scarf that was twisted
about the neck and shoulders.

Charles turned round as Tiny entered.

'' It is capital, admirable ! I could not have believed
it V' he exclaimed enthusiastically , as he
seized Tiny's hand, and pressed it devoutly to his
lips, in acknowledgment of a talent that excited
his profound admiration.

Tiny was so astonished, that she scarcely dared
to look at this most extraordinary visitor.

Tiny, you are a genius ! ' again exclaimed
Charles : " forgive me if I have frightened you.

Tiny looked up, and recognized her old friend.
Extreme shyness and great happiness combined,
prevented her speaking, but her hand remained in
that of Charles. She preserved her composure fora
few seconds, and then burst into tears. The
sudden meeting was too much for her, after all she
had undergone during the previous day and night.

Charles now looked at her for the first time.
The child he had thought so much of, whose wonderful
countenance had haunted him all his life,
and had been produced and reproduced in so many
of his best paintings, stood before him, a pale and
most lovely girl. In spite of the plain, dark dress
that she wore, the black stuff apron, the embroidered
collar, it was impossible to see any one
more lovely in that peculiar kind of spiritual beauty
that he the most admired.

"Forgive my abruptness, dear Tiny," he said
again, " but that painting is so clever, that I could
not help expressing my surprise. But I ought to
have remembered that you were in trouble. How
is your mother ?"

"Worse, I fear,' said Tiny, commanding her
feelings ; " she was very ill last night." And then
the thought that she stood before her best-beloved
friend, Charles Burton  already worse than an orphan
 rushed into her mind, and she was so entirely
overcome, that she turned to leave the room,
saying, "I will return directly; will you excuse
me?"

No ! " said Charles, following her, and gently
but firmly detaining her ; " you require consolation
and friendship more than solitude : we have been
great friends for many years, and have, I hope,
much in common between us. We love the same
art, and, if I may judge from this, the same poet ;
we have the same dear Mends, and are at home in
the same scenes; therefore we have much to talk of."

As he spoke, he took up a volume of Shakspeare,
which lay half-open on the easel, where it had lain
for many days, like the picture, untouched.

You thought that old manes head would make
a fine King Lear, and you were right," he said,
wishing to turn the current of her thoughts, which

he succeeded in doing : the Shakspeare was open
at the tragedy of King Lear.

Tinys eyes brightened, and a rare gleam of
pleasure shot from them. Her ideal was understood
and appreciated by him for whose sole approval
she cared. She had laboured on, half in
darkness, half in light ; partly from a devoted love
of the art, partly in the fond hope that Charles
Burton might see and admire her work. She was
repaid for the last six years of sorrow, toil, and
that utter solitude of mind worse than all besides.
She was understood,  she was not quite unworthy
of her friend.

"We will study these together. Tiny," said
Charles, pointing first to the picture, then to the
tragedy ; ' it will be hard if we do not make something
of them between us. T might give you some
hints on the actual laborious part of painting, and
you might help me in the ideal."

I !" exclaimed Tiny with an incredulous smile.

Here Pynsent entered.

I must speak a moment with you. Miss Eve-leigh,"
he said.

He generally called her Miss Eveleigh, unless
some sudden feeling prompted the more friendly
term.

Pynsent !" said Charles, " how long has the

Tiny you used to play with been elevated into a
Miss ? am I to become polite also, because she is
no longer a ' wee bairnie ?

Oh no , if you please, do not V said Tiny with
an appealing voice.

Never fear, Tiny, I am too old-fashioned."

Tiny followed Pynsent out of the room into the
little school-room.

I shall send a respectable nurse to help you,"
he said ; '' you must not have all this fag alone.
The child you have as servant is not old enough to
be of use. I will try to see your mother again this
evening, but the nurse shall be sent at once."

Tiny felt what Pynsent had not the courage to
say, that Mrs. Eveleighs death was shortly to be
expected.

Tell me the worst," said Tiny calmly, " I can
bear it."

I fear she cannot be with you many weeks,"
said Pynsent.

Weeks ! thank God ! I dreaded days or even
hours." It was like a reprieve to a condemned criminal
: she was not to lose her only sure stay quite
so soon ; she was not to be alone in the world perhaps
for weeks instead of days.

Mrs. Eveleighs bell rang.

"Wish your brother good-bye for me, if you

please; and thank you very very mucli/' said
Tiny, as she gave her hand to Pynsent, and ran
upstairs.

In the course of the day, a kind, respectable
nurse arrived, who not only divided the watching
with Tiny, but was a great comfort to her. Present
came, according to promise, in the evening,
and continued his visits daily afterwards, and
sometimes twice a day, when he could spare time.
Charles also frequently accompanied him, and saw
Tiny during his brother s brief visits to the invalid.

It was astonishing how Mrs. Eveleigh lingered ;
as if the lamp of life were replenished, drop by
drop, by some invisible hand, it would not go
out : perhaps the quiet, patient, waiting spirit tarried
to the very last for Tinys sake. Having disburdened
itself of its one secret, it was calm as the
soul of a sleeping infant ; all that Tiny did or said
was received with glances of the ineffable affection
of a mother ; and no daughter could more tenderly
perform every duty, than Tiny performed hers.

I leave you to the Saviour in whom I trust,
and to whom I go, were amongst the last words
that the dying woman said to her adopted child.

My early friends, friends of my evil day ;
Friends in my mirth, friends in my misery too ;
Friends given by Grot, in mercy and in love ;
My counsellors, my comforters, my guides ;
My joy in grief, my second grief in joy ;
Companions of my young desires ; in doubt
My oracles, my wings in high pursuit."  Pollock.

All was over ! Tiny Pynsent Charles and the
nurse had followed poor Mrs. Eveleigh to her last
resting-place, and had heard the solemn words
dust to dust/ and the heavy earth echo over her
coffin. All was over ! Not only the patient, loving
woman departed to another country, and " all
was over " for her in this world ; but, to all appearance,
with her had vanished Tinys every hope
of happiness, and all seemed over for her as well.
She was alone in the little parlour,  how truly
alone !  the brothers had returned home, thinking
it best not to intrude upon her grief at such a
time, and the nurse had been dismissed, not without
a promise however on her part to return. Of
all Tiny's sad life, this moment was the saddest.

She had never known, until then, what her gentle
companion had been to her; how loving and tender,
how considerate, how motherly ! In the last
term lay the secret of all her inconsistencies : to
have been and to have felt maternally, and yet not
to have been a mother ! Poor Tiny ! two vague
shadows haunted her ; those of her supposed and
real mother,  the former a meek, patient shadow,
working in that armchair, or dying on the bed
upstairs, looking ever to her for support and comfort,
and, she humbly hoped, finding what she
sought; the other a misty, but beautiful form,
clothed in that large Indian shawl, and with an
antique ring on her finger, and the wedding-ring
close to her heart,  what was she ? who was she ?
Again Tiny brought forth the clothes she had
worn, and spread them out before her. They were
all of good material and ladylike in form and colour.
When she had examined and re-examined
every article, she sat down by the table on which
they were spread, and wept. As she leant her
elbow on the table, she pushed down an open letter
which was on it; she took the letter in her hands, and
read it again and again : kind, tender, affectionate,
religious words covered the paper: they were written
by Jessie ; just such words as we might have expected
her to write on such an occasion. The letter

concluded with a hearty and earnest invitation
to Fairfield ; an entreaty that the solitary girl should
come " home"  so it was expressed  as soon as the
melancholy ceremony of the interment was over.

Home ! home !" echoed Tiny involuntarily,
there is no home for me but this lonely house,
and this I must give up to another in September;
till then it must be paid for, and till then I have
a shelter, and can earn a subsistence. No ! no !
sweet, pure Jessie; I cannot go to Fairfield with
this secret on my conscience ; I could not make
my home with those who do not think me what I
am. I was, at least, respectable as the child of the
poor artist and his wife; I am now  God alone
knows what I am, who I am. Was there ever any
human being so desolate ? Not a relative in the
world ; no claim on anything but charity. I will
write and refuse at once."

The writing materials were brought, and the letter
was written, blotted with the writer s tears.
Distinctly and decidedly did she refuse to go to
Fairfield, and become another burden on one already
so much burdened as was Jessie. She said
she could support herself for six months where
she was, after which period she might find a situation
in a private family ; or else, if not sufficiently
accomplished for that, obtain employment

as a gentlewoman in some respectable establishment.
She did not say that during the next six
months she would paint day and night , in the hope
of eventually living by her art,  although this
plan was at the bottom of all the others. Gratefully
she worded her letter, but as decidedly as if
she were a woman of forty, instead of a young girl
making her first voluntary decision. There was
much of passionate energy working in that small
weak frame, and circumstances were calling it forth.
She folded her letter, and took it herself to the
post. Her little servant was in the kitchen, and
she left her in charge of the house. When she returned,
she found Pynsent awaiting her : he had
simply driven Charles home, visited some patients,
and come back to comfort and advise the desolate
girl. She had not expected visitors, therefore had
left the room strewed with her poor mother's
clothes. Pynsent did not seem to be aware of
this, as he was sitting, lost in thought, by the fire.
He started when she entered, and, as if completing
what he had been saying to himself, exclaimed 
Yes, Tiny, you must go at once to Fairfield."
He looked at her, and never before had been so
forcibly struck by her extreme paleness and peculiar
beauty as now, when they were contrasted
with the plain mourning dress she wore.

I have just written to your sister to. say that I
cannot go/ she said as she seated herself opposite
Pynsent.

' Cannot go ! why, you cannot remain here, in
London, without a protectors said Pynsent. " My
uncle is your guardian, and Jessie your true friend,
therefore to them you must go at once/

'1 have refused, thank you, said Tiny, tears
filling her eyes. "I shall begin my little school
again tomorrow, and finish the work we have still
in the house. I fear the rent must be paid till
September, so I will give notice on quarter-day,
which will soon be here. You see I have a house
and home for many months, and I think I can
live, and earn money enough to pay the rent in
that time."

 You cannot live here alone ; impossible ! How
can a young girl like you live unprotected in such
a neighbourhood as this ?"

I have some idea that the nurse you sent, Mrs.
Good, will take one of the rooms, and she will bea
protection for me. Besides, I should see no one
but my Httle pupils and their parents."

This was said with hesitation, because Tiny
meant Pynsent to understand that she knew his
visits must be discontinued ; and he did understand
it. Once more he felt ready to ask her to

VOL. III. E

be his wife but again habitual prudence prevailed.
There is little doubt that he loved her, and looked
forward to the possibility of marrying her at some
indefinite period. Now his object was to get her
safe at Fairfield.

And why are you resolved not to go to Fair-fields
he asked. "I shall write to Jessie, to both
my uncles, and to Captain Burford, and get them
all to back me.'

' It would not do' replied Tiny with a sad
smile ; " I have been a burden too long, and must
now begin to support myself. "Were I to go first
to happy Fairfield, it would be worse for me afterwards'


Pynsent acknowledged the truth of what she
said.

I dare not stay longer now'' he said, " but I
must try you again tomorrow on the same subject.
I have an appointment at six, and it is now five."

One moment !" said Tiny, with tears streaming
down her cheeks.

She went to a bookshelf, and took down a well-bound
book, together with a small, rather choice
chimney ornament that had been placed upon it.

"My poor mother desired me to ask you to
keep these in remembrance of her. It is a sad
return  "

Tiny could say no more : the tlionglit of her
departed friend overcame her.

Pynsent hastily took the offerings, pressed Tinys
hands, and hurried to his carriage to hide his own
feelings.

"May God bless you !' were Tinys murmured
words, as she heard him drive him away.

He went at once to Charles, and begged him to
get into the first omnibus, go to Peckham, and see
whether he could make anything of Tiny.

' Use all your influence to get her home," he
said. " At any risk she must not be left alone ;
with her youth and beauty it would be destruction,
and we cannot claim to be her lawful protectors."

It was between seven and eight when Charles
reached Tiny. He found her at work, still surrounded
by her unknown mother's clothes, which
she had folded up and placed near her. She knew
that to carry out her plan she must labour, and
the sometime neglected workbox and fine linen
wristbands had been brought forth. True, she
could not do much for tears ; still she was forcing
her swimming eyes and trembling fingers to mark
and draw forth the minute threads of the cloth, to
make the straight Hne for the fine stitching which
she must next accomplish.

Something more than a start of surprise greeted

E 2

Charles when he entered the room. The hands
trembled more even than they had done over the
work, and the eyes shot a wonderful gleam of pleasure
through their tears.

Working, Tiny, already ! this must not be V
said Charles, taking the wristbands and needle from
her hands, and seating himself beside her,  so different
from Pynsent, who always placed himself at
a distance. '' You must give up this wearing occurs
nation, and go to Fairfield

"I cannot go to Fairfield, she said, dropping
her hands languidly on her knees, and hanging
her head to hide the tears.

"Why have you such a dislike to Fairfield?"
asked Charles heedlessly.

' Dislike ! Oh, unkind word V' said Tiny.

I did not mean it, dear Tiny, but I partly understand
you : you will not go home, and you
must not, shall not, remain here. Tiny, there is
one alternative. If I could at such a time,  if I
dared to hope that you would consent,  I would
ask you to share and aid the fortunes of one who
has nothing, like yourself, but his good right arm
to make his way with. We have everything in
common ; we love the same glorious art,  we have
the same ambition, hopes, thoughts, purposes, 
shall we have, have we, the same love ?"

Poor Tiny ! Lower and lower drooped the
leads faster and faster flowed the tears.

'Only one word, one look, to say that the
childish affection you showed me years ago, and
all the tender care and kindness it drew with it, is
not quite vanished with childhood ?" said Charles,
gently stroking the hair of the drooping head.

Tiny looked up, made her usual effort at self-command,
and spoke hurriedly but audibly. " What
my feelings were years ago they have been and
still are. I do not care for any one in this world
as I care for you. I could work for you, live for
you, die for you, but you must not speak to me
again  you have just spoken'

"It is only brotherly love then, as I feared,
dear Tiny."

No, no ! ah, no ! I wish it were. To know
that  that you feel what you say you feel, is too
great happiness."

Tiny hid her face in her hands, but Charles
drew the hands away, and looked earnestly into
the face.

Dear Tiny, we love one another's he said ; " weare
one in heart and soul : let us thank God for
it. This being the case, no human power shall
divide us ; we will share the good and evil of this
life, whatever betide ; I will work, and you shall

help me, and so, as husband and wife, we will be
happy, and bring to perfection the talents given us,
which first brought our souls so close together'

It cannot be, it cannot be'' murmured Tiny.

I must know why it cannot be," said Charles.

Tiny withdrew her hands from Charles, and
again covered her face with them, as she said distinctly,
but with considerable efibrt 

'' Because I am not what you think me ; that is
poor and desolate enough,  but I am poorer and
more desolate still. Mrs. Eveleigh was not my
mother ; your uncle took me to save me from the
workhouse, and brought me up for charity : I aman
outcast from my kindred, if I have any, a nameless,
deserted orphan."

Then Tiny," said Charles solemnly, again tenderly
pressing the drooping head with his hand, as
if in assurance of love and protection, but refraining
from withdrawing the shame-concealing hands
from the burning face ; ' then, dearest Tiny, then,
with God's blessing, we will give you kindred, and
an honest, honourable name, which we will strive
together to make more honourable still; parents
I cannot give you ; for, like you in that as in all
else, I am an orphan; but brothers and sisters
shall be yours, and, better still, a friend that
ticket closer than a brother,' who will work for

and with you and strive to make you forget that you
ever felt, even for a moment, alone in the world."

 Charles !" said Tiny, letting fall her hands,
and looking suddenly into his face with an expression
of such astonishment, love, and gratitude as
it is well to see beam from a human countenance,
because it approaches it to the Divine.

She could speak no other word, and none was
needed. Charles allowed the sobs and tears that
followed to have way, before he broke the silence,
and then he gently led her to talk of him rather
than of herself, leaving it to time to unfold to him
the little she knew of herself. But before he left
her, he had heard it all ; by fragments, it is true,
but she could not be happy until he knew what she
had been told. He made no comments, further
than to assure her, by looks more than words, that
her revelations made no change in him ; his resolution
had been taken, and his plans formed, when
Mrs. Eveleigh died, and he was not a character to
alter them. The beautiful, the gifted, and the
good were all in all to him, as to many other
enthusiastic and youthful hearts; and prudent
thoughts of the future, and its possible weight of
cares and trials, were rarely in his mind. Tiny
was of the same nature, but had had more foresight
and forethought instilled into her by circumstances.

and was therefore less certain of the propriety of
his arguments than he was himself, although quite
carried away by them whilst he was near her.
They had faith in themselves , in each other and
in the art they loved ; and life seemed to each of
them only given to work out grand designs , and to
conduce to the good and happiness of mankind.
Tiny suddenly saw a new worlds and a glorious one,
opened before her, too large and splendid to admit
of counting costs, as in her working-day, circumscribed
one ; let us not wonder then if, for a time,
she forgot all else but faith in the enthusiast before
her, and hope in the future.

*' My picture is received into the Academy," said
Charles; "tomorrow is the opening day; I feel
that the labour and study I have bestowed on it
must make it a picture of note, if there is justice
in the world ; and I also know that I can do still
better. I have put a price of two hundred and
fifty guineas upon it, for I am sure it is worth it,
even though it be the first I have exhibited in my
own country. Abroad I might have had two hundred,
and may still have that sum, if I fail of success
in the Royal Academy, but I wished to employ
my talent for my own country. Tomorrow, Tiny, I
will fetch you, and take you to the Academy ; I am
unknown, and we can watch together the fate of

the picture and our own; for, if it sell before a
week is over onr heads, you shall be mine, and we
will paint the next together

It was in vain for Tiny to shake her head, and
hint at the possibility of disappointment, and the
impossibility of such haste. Charles was positive ;
and when they parted, pledged to one another for
life or death, his last words were, " You shall not
be lonely longs

It was with considerable anxiety that Pynsent
awaited the return of Charles. He sat by the fire
with a deep medical treatise before him, trying to
fix his attention upon it, but in vain. He had just
put by his pencil and papers, having quite failed
in his endeavours to make clear notes of a case
he had been attending. He perpetually saw the
words, "What can Charles be about ?' both on
the blank and printed paper, and tormented himself
by thinking how improper it was that he and
Tiny should be so long alone together. Everything
must have an end, and so had his half
jealous, half prudential torments ; for the last omnibus
brought Charles.

What is the matter ? what has kept you ? "
exclaimed Pynsent with unusual animation.

Sit down, my dear fellow, and I will tell you
all," replied Charles, drawing an armchair to the
fire. E 3

The " all/ when told, was a thunderbolt. Whilst
relating his engagement and intended marriage,
Tinys history, and, in short, all that he had said
and done during the evening, Charles was too
much engrossed in his own happiness to look at
his brother. Pjnsent, meanwhile, experienced
many conflicting feelings. Charles had effected
in an hour what his prudence had forbidden him
to do through long, long years. Would he be the
better or the worse for it ? Such sentences as the
following were frequently ejaculated, mentally, as
the history proceeded.

Thank God, I never proposed for her ! What
a fool I was, and am ! Saved from being made a
greater, perhaps, by Charles's precipitancy. Now
I can partly understand what Jessie has had to
go through. Both supplanted by our younger.
Paint together ! starve together, most likely. Ay,
what is to become of her unless she marries ? and
what is to become of both if they marry ? Two
hundred and fifty guineas will support them for a
year and a half, and they will have another picture
by next year worth five hundred. I wish they may
get it ! He has laid all his plans as if he had a
thousand a year,  he, dependent on his uncles till
very lately. He says nothing about the thousand
pounds from the estate. We are not a selfish race,

thank God ! Poor boy ! how excited he looks !
I suppose they have always loved one another.
Hang this love ! it makes men idiots, and women
babies. 111 have no more of it, at all events.
There shall be one outwardly sensible member of
the Burtonss, however confoundedly foolish he maybe
inwardly ! I have never betrayed myself,
thanks to my good fortune. And these rash
youngsters are all to be happy, whilst Jessie and
I are to labour for them. Well ! we only play the
part of parents, and do our duty. Sweet Tiny !
she is too lovely a creature to be cast upon the
world ; you are right there. Sir. Ah ! not Mrs.
EveleigVs daughter ? I suspected that. Well, I
could never have married any one, if I had been a
greater fool than I am, whose parents I did not
know to be respectable ; so Providence has ordered
well for me. But what advice am I 'to give in
this case ? '

The last thought was suggested by Charles's
winding up with the words 

'' And now, old fellow, what do you say to it
all?"

Say that you are a lucky dog if you get Tiny
and all that you expect besides," was the calm
reply.

I forgot to say, that I feel convinced that

Tiny must be the child of talented, if not of distinguished
parents' said Charles; "and I have
no doubt of a marriage concealed from peculiar
motives'

' Humph !'' ejaculated Pynsent.

' Pynsent, I should lilies to shake you ! " said
Charles.

"You would scarcely shake sympathy out of
me, I am so sleepy ; I am not sure that I haven't
been asleep this half-hour. Now let us both goto
bed, and dream upon it. We shall be able to
discuss the matter better tomorrow morning, after
we have had the aid of visitations in dreams. If
you are hungry, ring for something to eat ; but I
suppose lovers don't feel those vulgar cravings.
Good night, old chap ! There's a salutation for an
artist and innamorato !"

Pynsent went to bed, but not to sleep. He
wrote at once to Jessie, for the advice he did not
feel able to give himself. Then he reproached
himself for want of brotherly feeling. "I was
jealous, and could not wish him joy. I vow, love,
like money, is the root of all evil." And, in order
to make up for his omissions, he stalked up to
Charles's attic in his dressing-gown, and apostrophized
him with 

I say, Charles, you must let me wish you joy.

whether you get it or no. Remember I am no
lover myself so done understand the rhapsodies."

Thank you, Pynsent ; I knew you did not feel
as cold as you seemed about this great event of my
life, but you threw a sad damp upon it."

Well, let it dry now, Charlie, and be sure that
you have a brother who will do his best to make
you happy. Shake hands once more. God bless
you  you  and  and  Tiny !"

CHAPTER XXXVI.

"Monmouth's Foot, though deserted, made a gallant stand.
The Life Guards attacked them on the right, the Blues on the
left : the Somersetshire clowns, with their scythes and the butt
ends of their muskets, faced the Royal Horse like old soldiers. . . .
The Dissenting preachers who had taken arms against Popery, and
some of whom had probably fought in the great Civil War, prayed
and preached in red coats and huge jack-boots, with swords by
the' sides, . . . Sedgemoor fight was the last, deserving the name
of battle, that has been fought on English ground."  Macaulay.

The following morning Charles went for Tiny, according
to his promise, and took her to the Royal
Academy. It was early, and there were as yet few
visitors. It was his pleasure that his companion
should not be told which was his picture, as he
wished to discover whether it would strike her
fancy or not. Tiny felt this to be a most trying
plan; but he willed it so, and all her influence
was insufficient to induce him to change. They
accordingly walked leisurely from picture to picture
with beating hearts : he fearing lest his should
not attract her notice, and she dreading to pass it
by unremarked, or to make some disparaging observation

upon it. He endeavoured to gain her
opinion of the various paintings by commenting
freely upon them himself; but he could only discover
those she did not admire, from her silence.
Her taste was perfect: and as they passed on,
Charles trembled more and more. It was not necessary
to point out to her the seemingly living
and breathing animals of Landseer, as they stood
before her free and perfect, as if Nature herself
had painted them,  neither the grand historical
portraiture of Machine,  nor the calm, subdued
colouring of Herbert,  nor the faithful, Cuyp-like,
\ sunny animals of Cooper, united with the fresh
and beautiful landscapes of his coadjutor, Lee, 
nor the Wilkie-like, natural Webster,  nor the
inimitable Cornfields,  nor those of a hundred
others, whose names and paintings live in every
heart that has a throb to bestow on the divine
art they have followed and lived for. Tiny knew
each of these by intuition, and it was a treat to
Charles to see her deep, sad eyes lighten with
pleasure, and to hear her quiet expressions of admiration
as she stood before them. So great washer
love for her art, that she forgot Charleses picture
for the moment, when commenting with the
artistes taste and knowledge upon the salient points
in those of his fellow-labourers. It was when she

came to some striking piece, the peculiar style or
colouring of wHch she did not know, executed by
some artist as yet only ascending the ladder of
fame, that she paused anxiously, and tried to read
in the eyes of her friend whether it were the picture
or not. They came to the inner room at last.
I must have passed it by unnoticed, she said to
herself, as her heart seemed to fail her. But
Charles's eyes were still bright.

This is it ! I am sure this is it ! ' she exclaimed,
as she suddenly stopped before a pleasant,
green, fresh landscape, with cattle and figures.
Charles could almost have echoed her words, for
it was such a scene as he had often sketched himself
near his uncle's house in Somersetshire.

No," he said, "that is not it; but I could
almost fancy I grouped those cows''

More and more minutely does she now examine
every picture, and more anxiously does she glance
into Charles's face.

'that is a beautiful group," she says, as she
stops before a picture of a cottage with children
at play in the foreground, and half fancies it is
what Charles would paint : but there is no assenting
smile in his face. " Ah ! that is true nature
itself!" she says. "Is it a Cooper? No, it is new
to me." Again she guesses, but apparently wrong.

as they pause before a clever sketch of cattle. She
somehow fancies that Charles's picture must be a
Somersetshire sketch , and half expects to see Fairfield
itself or the river and meadows he loved so
well.

Suppose it should be this V her heart suggests
as they face a large frame before which a considerable
group is assembled.

They are obliged to pause awhile before they can
obtain a sight of the picture, and Tiny seats herself
for a few moments on one of the benches opposite,
and listens to the comments of the spectators.

That is a very fine picture' exclaims one elderly
gentleman with the air of a connoisseur ; " I
scarcely know the hand, but it is very clever''

Ah' says a young man by his side, " I don't
know; a pretty child, certainly,"  here he turns
over the leaves of his catalogue,  " but not otherwise
remarkable, it has not even the artist's name.
It is signed  Alpha :' some beginner, probably."

What is this ?" whispers a lady to a friend who
holds a catalogue. "It must be something remarkable,
there are so many people round it."

It is called  Sedgemoor after the Fight,' and
the motto is ' All for glory,' " is the reply. " I
always admire those dark pictures with the moon
just rising in the distance."

"Nothing could be finer than that prostrate
dying peasant ; or the Puritan who is reading to
him, and is himself wounded says a gentleman
who has been attentively considering the picture
for some time without speaking.

except the cliild/ rejoins a friend; "she
must be a portrait. Was there ever anything
truer , and yet more spiritual, than the face and attitude
?''

"Rather affected, I thinks drawls a dandy,
looking through his eye-glass. " Who ever saw a
child kneeling by the side of a peasant, and that
peasant with a scythe near him, killed in battle ?

But it is  After the Fights and the child and
dog have come to seek for the dead. The plain is
covered with slain. There are soldiers, peasants,
Puritans, and horses everywhere. It is Sedgemoor-field
; and very clever too.

Upon my soul, that is a promising picture,"
exclaims a voice that makes Tiny start. She looks
at the speaker.

Mr. Michelson," whispers Charles ; " do not let
him recognize us.'

That child V continues Mr. Michelson for he
it is, " I have seen the original ; who can it be, and
where have I seen the face ?"

"Do you not think the moonlight too strong

upon the child , and the men too much in shadow ?"
suggested one of three gentlemen who accompanied
Mr. Michelson , and who all appeared either artists
or connoisseurs.

That is a fine idea' remarked another of the
two. ' The dog is protecting both father and child
one paw on hers the other on him , whilst his eye
is on the raven hovering near."

There is a little imitation of Landseer in the
dog' says another.

Dog !" interrupts Mr. Michelson, " look at the
child : I never saw anything so beautiful in my
life as her face. And then the portrait ! I must
know who the artist is V

Mr. Michelson moved away towards another
quartette of critics who were standing near.

That painter's fortune is made !" muttered one
of the gentlemen he left ;  Michelson doesn't praise
for nothing."

Now we can get a sight of the picture' whispered
Tiny, half withdrawing the thick black veil
that covered her face.

Charles walked towards the painting, and as
Tiny leant on him, she thought she felt his arm.
tremble.

The subject of the picture was, as the bystanders
have already said, a battle-field by moonlight. The

prominent characters were a dying peasant with
a Puritan divine reading the Bible to him, and a
child kneeling by his side, clasping his hand in
hers, and raising her eyes to Heaven. A large
sheep-dog seemed to be watching both the living
and the dead, and keeping at bay some ravens
hovering above. The peasant had fallen fighting
for the unfortunate Duke of Monmouth, and the
distant field  or Sedgemoor  was covered with the
slain. The picture was remarkable for its strong
light and shade, and for an evident, and, at that
time, original attempt to throw off" some of the
mere tricks or conventionalities of art. It was,
apparently, the work of a young artist of considerable
genius and over-much boldness ; but the
merits far exceeded the defects. The broad, uninteresting
moor was rendered poetic by the faint
gleams of moonlight that fell across it, and by the
power of the artist in giving distance, and yet
melting that distance into the dark evening sky.
The expression of the child's face as she held her
dead father's hand to her breast, and seemed to be
entreating Heaven to restore him to life, was touchingly
beautiful. The moonlight on the long hair,
pale unearthly face, and clasped hands, brought out
the figure as if it was actually kneeling before you,
whilst the shadow of the dog threw the form of

the peasant and Puritan into gloom, and gave a
night-effect to the whole foreground, relieved by
the gleams of moonlight on the child.

You and I, Reader, have seen that child before,
and so have Charles and Tiny, though the latter
does not recognize her. She stands before her own
portrait, gazing on it as if in a dream of wonder,
doubt, and hopeful admiration. She has so often,
in their childish days, heard Charles talk of the
fatal Sedgemoor fight, and the interest the moor,
which he had often visited, had for him, that she
almost fancies the painting is at last reached. How
frequently and energetically had he endeavoured
to describe to her the dreadful massacre of the
Somersetshire peasantry, as they fought with their
scythes, or other labouring utensils, for their "King
Monmouth's as they chose to call him, and fought
to the death, whilst he, their leader, had fled for
life. How often had he praised his Puritan heroes,
preaching and fighting for the religion they perished
to preserve, and declared that a poem or a
picture should immortalize the moral and spiritual
courage of men who, however blindly misled, had
died for a supposed king, and the preservation of a
true faith. And here were the painting and poem
united. The sturdy peasant with his bloody scythe
by his side, and the stern Puritan breathing his

last, apparently, iu reading the Holy Book lie had
striven to keep open for the people, to one of the
unlettered multitude, who passed away from earth
in listening. Both true to the last ; and here, in
the kneeling child, was the poem. Filial affection
had brought her over the bloody field, led by the
instinct of the faithful shepherd s dog, to her peasant
father's corpse,  one of the thousands of orphans
made that day, by mistaken zeal and misplaced
ambition. Sad but true poetry of life ! This
was a picture that Tiny would have wished him
she loved to have painted. Was it his ?

She looked into his face. His eyes were bent
earnestly on her. They had been watching every
varying expression of her countenance, and seemed,
from the gleams of pleasure that lighted them, to
be satisfied with what they had seen.

"Yours !" said Tiny under her breath.

"What of it'' asked Charles.

Beautiful, very beautiful !" was the reply, whilst
the black veil was hastily drawn down to conceal
the tears that gathered in the eyes of the speaker.

Mine ! and you have been the invisible agent,"
said Charles, pressing the arm he held within his.
"That was your portrait some ten years ago,
sketched then, but worked into every imaginable
form all these years : I am satisfied."

He drew her gently through the crowded rooms.
They did not pause to examine any other pictures ;
even the crowning glory of the Exhibition was
passed by unnoticed. They scarcely spoke again,
until , by means of a succession of omnibuses,, they
arrived at the quiet cottage at Peckham.

The following day Charles had the satisfaction of
learning that his picture had been purchased by Mr.
Michelson for the price affixed, 250. He had
moreover the pleasure of finding, during the ensuing
week, the cards of several celebrated painters
on his table, as well as those of some of the liberal
patrons of the art. His fame had begun, and he
had now to labour to complete it.

Various characteristic letters arrived from home,
commenting on the hasty marriage he had declared
it his positive intention of making. Uncle Jameses
contained a full approval, and a hint that if, at anytime,
he wanted a hundred pounds to help to keep
house, he might apply to him as banker. " Marry
whilst you are young, my boy, and don't waste
your valuable days in old-bachelorhood," it said ;
I am only now beginning to live, at sixty-five, and
had I been able to obtain the hand of your admirable
Aunt in early life, I should have lived at least
thirty-five years." Aunt Betsey, on the contrary,
was highly wroth at the idea of a Burtons intermarrying

with a poor artistes orphan not remembering
that her nephew was nothing but a poor
artist himself. From Jessie there were two letters,
one dictated by Uncle Timothy, and the other
wholly her own. The former contained all that
the dictator knew of Tinys birth, and an entreaty
that Charles would do nothing hastily; also a
warm blessing on the pair, if they really decided
upon roughing it together in the world. The latter,
as was Jessie's custom, contained sound and prudent
advice. In the first place she begged Charles
to wait until he could see his way clear, and to endeavour
to induce Tiny to go to Fairfield, and stay
there for some months. Much more she wrote,
which those who know her character will imagine,
but which was quite thrown away upon Charles.

'' Uncle James is a true, great-hearted man !"
he exclaimed as he gave his letter to Pynsent, " but,
thank God ! I shall not want his helps

' Humph !" was Pynsent's first word as he read.
How can any old dotard be so blind ! Your admirable
Aunt ! Well, Cupid is hoodwinked, doubtless.
First-rate advice ! To drag a young girl into
poverty. Some people are children all their lives,
and such were the last generation of Barnard. I
hope the present may turn out wiser."

True to yourself. Aunt Betsey V said Charles,

throwing down the half-sheet of delicate satin notepaper
that enshrined that lady's aristocratic sentiments.
'' How could that noble unselfish Uncle
James ever have fallen in love with you?"

Most admirable Aunt !" exclaimed Pynsent
taking up the letter  every one has his monomania,
and you have always had yours. I esteem you for
your consistency. The only inconsistent thing you
ever did was marrying a plebeian; but there the
fear of old-maids overcame you."

Uncle Timothy wishes it , I am sure !" ejaculated
Charles as he read letter the third : " one can
see it through all."

Poor Uncle Timothy !" was the rejoinder on the
opposite side of the question ; "he wishes what
he thinks every one else wishes. He never knew
what worldly prudence was, and so at nearly
seventy he is poor, and almost blind."

But he is happy," said Charles, " nevertheless."

Yes, thank God ; happy in a clear conscience,
the hope of a better world, and the love of all who
know him."

And who would desire a more glorious old-age?"
asked Charles triumphantly.

But Uncle Timothy never married,' was the
quiet reply.

Jessie is certainly a perfect character," again

VOL. III. F

commented Charles,, as he read the last letter;
but I sometimes think her prudence makes her
cold and calculating. I suppose after all a woman
may be too good to be agreeable."

That from you Charles ?" said Pynsent reproachfully.


Forgive me ; but Jessie was never in love, and
how can she judge of my feelings ?"

Perhaps Jessie has been more in love, and
more warmly and sincerely constant, than you are
ever likely to be ; but she is unselfish, and you
are"

 Not selfish !  oh ! do not say that. I simply
wish to rescue Tiny at once from misery, and I
know my own powers of gaining a livelihood."

So be it, Charles. You know the trite old
maxims about knowing oneself and Peter the
Great's notions of self-government, etc., so I will
not moralize ; but as to Jessie, she has learnt them
all by heart, and I am thankful for such a sister."

And I for such a brother and sister," said
Charles, extending his hand to Pynsent, and grasping
his as soon as it was offered.  So you must
come down to Peckham tomorrow, and give the
unprotected and orphan girl a brother and sister
likewise by giving her to me."

Why did Pynsent suddenly withdraw his hand

and put it before Ms eyes ? No bystander, not
even Charles, could have told ; for in a few seconds
he removed it, and, with a clear glance and frank
tone, replied 

Tomorrow is very soon, but I am ready if
you are ; and, if it is to be such a hasty affair, it
may as well be done at once. I say, old fellow,
you and Tiny must put up here until you can find
a proper house of your own : there is room for us
all ; but I must be off to a patient. You will ruin
my profession if you go on talking of love and
matrimony."

The following morning, at about eleven o'clock,
there was seen within one of the Peckham churches
a simple bridal party. Charles and Tiny stood before
the altar, both ready to make, and intending
to keep faithfully, the solemn vows they made.
Tiny looked even paler than usual, but serene and
happy. She had no occasion for tears, for she had
no friend to leave behind, and all to gain. The
plain morning dress and bonnet that had for the
day replaced the mourning, were white, and that
was all that was bridal about it. Pynsent had
provided her with a beautiful bouquet of lilies of
the valley, as if he thought that nothing with
colour could become one so pale and delicate.
There were two little girls in white, her pupils

f2

heretofore who acted the parts of bridesmaids,
and the good nurse who was with Mrs. Eveleigh
when she died. As Pynsent gave Tinys hand to
Charles, and heard each utter words that bound
them to one another for life, perchance he trembled
slightly, and a little chill fell on his warm,
manly heart ; but it vanished when he kissed Tiny
tenderly, and whispered that she was now his sister.

The poor, silly child, who had not wept before,
shed tears at being thus admitted into near relationship
with one so true and noble, and they fell
into the white lilies that she raised to her face to
hide them. Pynsent inwardly prayed that her tears
might never have a sadder source or a bitterer end.
When he shook his younger brother by the hand
there was no selfish regret in his heart. He rejoiced
at the look of happiness and pride that
beamed upon him, and, following him and his
young wife out of the church, blessed them, and
wished them a long life of peace.

There was a quiet little repast waiting for them
at the cottage when they reached it, presided over
by the mother of one of Tinys pupils, and the old
couple next door came to partake of it. Moreover,
Tinys friend, the mad beggar, was at the
door in his very best motley, and they all declared
he should be admitted to the feast.

It was not a very clieerfiil wedding party ;
neither was it a sad one. Tiny was thinking of
poor Mrs. Eveleigh , who had so lately sat a sufferer
in that picture-garnished room, and wondering
whether she were with them in the spirit; and
Pynsent was looking forwards to the uncertain future
and fearing lest his brother s golden schemes
should be disappointed, and the delicate bride reduced
to worse trials than she might have had to
bear alone. Charles was all hope and happiness.
Two hundred and fifty pounds in hand, and talents
enough to win at least double that sum by next
year, what had he to fear ? He and Tiny would
go for a fortnight to the sea, and then return and
'set to work in earnest.

A neat cab was at the door to convey the young
couple to London Bridge, whence they were to
travel by South-Eastern Railway to Folkestone,
and thence to some quiet cottage by the sea, where
they might have love and nature all to themselves.
Tinys small portion of luggage was soon packed
into the vehicle, but the various painting apparatus
of bride and bridegroom were less easily
stowed away. Even during the honeymoon their
beloved art was not to be neglected. All was
ready at last, and the little party were to separate.
Once more Pynsent kissed his sister-in-law, and

shook hands with his brother. The little maidens
in their white frocks with tearful eyes hung round
the neck of their dear instructress,, and the two
matrons bade her ' God speed." The mad beggar
plucked some of the few dusty flowers in the little
garden bed, and strewed them, somewhat theatrically,
on the path to the carriage, dancing and
lamenting in curious discord the while. Tiny
pulled her thick black crape veil over her face and
hurried on, followed by the rest. She had resumed
her mourning garb for travelling, and the
croaking malcontents of the world would have declared
deep black and a motley-clad beggar bad
omens of future happiness ; but we shall see. At
all events, the sun shone out bravely, and the one
or two sparrows that haunted the house-top chirped
merrily, as much as to say, you have nature at
least in your favour. And so doubtless they had,
for true love and nature generally go hand in
hand, as we hope they will do, tiU '' death them
doth part."

Pynsent sat between the two little maidens, and
soon succeeded in comforting them, and thereby
comforting himself. He gave them half-a-crown
apiece, and told them to buy a pretty picture-book
with it, and to keep it for Tinys sake.

I always said Mrs. Eveleigh and her daughter

were quite respectable Sirs said the mother of the
children.

I should like to hear any one say thej were
not, Maam/ thundered Pynsent. " I would not
advise such a one to come within pistol-shot of me."

Then he gave five shillings to the mad beggar,
and as much to Tiny's little serving maid, whom
he had often feed before, and presented the two
ladies with a white shawl each in memory of the
day, begging them to be careful of Tinys house
until her return. And then he walked all round
the little parlour leisurely, which took him sometime
to accomplish, small as it was, for he must
needs handle various little matters that belonged
to Tiny, and think how she had looked when employed
in this or that occupation. Finally, ejaculating
to himself, ' What an arrant fool thou art,
oh, Pynsent Burton ! " he bade farewell to the
bridal party, and, once more getting into an unsentimental
omnibus, ruminated over his own
shortcomings until he was unceremoniously informed
that he had sixpence to pay, and might as
well be thinking of his outward as of his inward
man, since he was about to return to busy bachelor
life again.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

If it be I, as I suppose I be,
I have a little dog at home, and he knows me :
If it be I, he'll wag this little tail ;
If it bait I, he'll bark and he'll rail."

NuESEET Song.

When Pynsent returned home lie was informed
by his servant that various requests had been made
for his attendance on various patients. Amongst
others there had been a servant from an hotel in
Jermyn-street , desiring the immediate attendance
of Mr. Barnard. Now when Mr. Barnard was
sent for, it was usually by some old friend or patient
who had not been informed of the change
of dynasty in Duke-street ; and Pynsent generally
wrote, or sent a message, enlightening the said
friend or patient thereupon, and giving him a
chance of calling in a fresh surgeon if he liked todo
so. In the present instance, the messenger had
been very urgent, saying that a lady was extremely
ill, and wished to see Mr. Barnard without a moment's
delay. Pynsent thought it might be better

to go at once and as the patient was a lady , and
possibly a young one lie went upstairs and deliberately
put on his uncles wig. Everybody has been
guilty of some wilful deception during his life : this
was Pynsent's. He had found the wig answer so
well in one or two previous instances, that he invariably
tried it upon new ladies. It certainly made
him look ten years older.

Having arranged the wig to his satisfaction, he
proceeded, seemingly a sober gentleman of fifty, to
the lady at the hotel in Jermyn-street. The man
who had been sent for him did not appear to know
the name of the patient, and simply left the address
; and Pynsent inquired at the door : 

You have a lady Who is ill here, I believe. I
am the surgeon who has been sent for.

"Duke-street, Sir?" asked the waiter.

Yes."

"Widow ladies. Sir?"

I do not know."

This way, Sir. Your name. Sir?"

Burton." The man was out of hearing.

Mr. B , the doctor, Maam," he said, opening
a door on the first floor, and ushering Pynsent
into a very handsome room.

Oh, Mr. Barnard, I am so glad you are come !
Do you remember me ? "

F 3

SIMPLICITY AND FASCINATION.

A lady in a widow's cap walked across the room
to meet the supposed Mr. Barnard, holding out
both hands. She suddenly stopped as she came
nearer, and said 

I beg your pardon ; this is a mistake."

I  ah !  Mr. Barnard has given up practice.
Madam, and T have succeeded him'' stammered
Pynsent confused.

I am sorry," said the lady, evidently disappointed
; ' where is he ?"

' He is in Somersetshire with his relations."

'' At ?" began the lady.

My dear," interrupted a weak voice from a sofa,
"will you see if anything can be done for me?"

The lady returned to the other end of the room,
motioning to Pynsent to follow her.

"My mother is greatly out of health, and
wished to consult Mr. Barnard. This is Mr.
Barnard's successor, Mamma; will you speak to
him?"

I should rather have seen Mr. Barnard, my
dear," was the reply, in a peevish tone of voice ;
but I dare say this gentleman will do something
for me."

"Another widow!" muttered Pynsent to himself,
and he thought of Sam Weller's father, and
his advice about "bidders," saying, or rather

thinking, that two must be "equal to forty single
women /

The younger lady placed a chair near the sofa
of the invalid for Pynsent, and withdrew. So
great had been Pynsents confusion at being so
suddenly addressed as his uncle, that he had not
even looked at her: besides, he never had been
given to contemplating ladies faces ; and now he
had lost Tiny, he never meant to think of or look
at a woman again. He managed nevertheless, to
discover that the lady left behind was of middle
age, and of soft appearance and manners ; the remains,
in short, of a fair beauty without any great
expression of countenance, and, consequently, no
longer very attractive in appearance. He also soon
found out that she was nervous, dyspeptic, and
wholly wrapped up in herself and her ailments,
without any real disease, but imagining that she
had every bad symptom that everybody had ever
had, since the time of Adam to the present day.

Bread pills and water, coloured and flavoured
in every possible manners"* thought Pynsent, whilst
he felt his patients pulse, looked at her tongue,
listened to her details of imaginary ills, and questioned
her as gravely as if he had really believed
that she had all the diseases she fancied.

We said that Pynsent's one deception was his

wig. I fear we must add another that he enjoyed
and encouraged along with many others of his
medical brethren, videlicet, that of wearing a grave
face when his patients were resolved to be in a
dying state, whether he himself believed them to
be so or not. He began life by resolutely trying
to make a nervous invalid he attended, and a rich
one, believe that there was nothing the matter
with him but nervousness,  and that is bad
enough: he lost his patient and his fees, both
having gone to a doctor who was willing to let
him have his own way.

' It is a melancholy weakness," thought Present,
as the lady in the Jermyn-street hotel bewailed
her condition, " but we must humour it."

"You think I may live some few months?"
asked she.

Decidedly, Madam ; there is no immediate
danger in your case, and I hope, with time and
care, we may succeed in relieving you."

Be it observed, aside, that Pynsent had got into
the royal pronoun "we," in vogue amongst his fraternity.


India was my destruction," said the patient.

Pynsent opened his ears ; but the remembrance
of India apparently was too much for the invalid,
who began to cry.

The other widows cap popped into the room.
Pynsent suspected that it had been listening
through the door communicating with the next
apartment. It said 

May I come in ? I am afraid you have been
talking too much, Mamma : and it was placed
exactly opposite Pynsent.

Might I trouble you for a pen and ink?' began
Pynsent, or , no : I will just call at the chemist's,
and order the prescriptions to be sent."

He looked at the younger lady suddenly, and
found a most wicked pair of blue eyes fixed, with a
mischievous expression, on his wig. He always fancied
everybody looked at the wig when he had it
on, just as he knew a third person must think him
a humbug when he humoured a nervous patient.
He had no doubt the very pretty young widow
had found him out both ways. He was confused,
and rose to depart.

''When shall I see you again?" asked the
Mamma.

' I will call in the course of the week."

Oh ! tomorrow, at the latest ; I may be dead
in the course of a week."

(( Very well. Madam, tomorrow," said Pynsent,
bowing.

He was impelled to look again at the pretty

widow. There was a ludicrous smile about the
.mouthy but the eyes still sought his wig.

Pynsent absolutely blushed, as he bowed once
more , muttered " Good morning," and took his
departure, without leasing his card, or inquiring
the name of his patient.

There is certainly a likeness to somebody,"
said Pynsent, as he walked down Jermyn-street
and into St. Rameses-street, and thence to Piccadilly,
to his chemist's.

In spite of Tiny, so lately married, the face of
that pretty widow haunted him. She was somewhere
about thirty years old, he fancied,  she
might have been either less or more ; at all events
she was quite young. He could not help wishing
that he had looked again : he was determined todo
so on the morrow.

The morrow came, and Pynsent went to the two
widows, still with his uncle's wig barely covering
his own hair. He found them, as before, together.
He made his bow, and the younger lady her curtsey,
soon after which ceremony she again withdrew.


The Mamma went through all her symptoms,
varying them somewhat from the previous day,
and saying that she thought the medicine had
done her good.

' The fact is, I do not like to alarm my daughter
by saying how dangerously ill I really am,"
she said, "but I feel it to be impossible for me
to last long : she will not see it, poor thing, but
really is quite in spirits sometimes, and that is too
much for me. I had remarkably good constitution
once ; but twenty or thirty years in an Indian
climate would ruin the best in the world. I should
not have been there so long, but my daughter married,
and my husband got a lucrative appointment,
and so we were all sacrificed. This fearful war
has made us both widows."

Here the younger lady appeared.

I tell Mamma she will get quite strong and
well if she can go into the country," she began,
seating herself opposite Pynsent and taking up
some work.

Ah, my dear," sighed her mother, "you little
know what I suffer, or you would not be so hopeful."


"But I know of a most charming place, that
would cure any one, if we could only get you
there. You know Somersetshire?" addressing
Pynsent.

Pynsent looked at her, and again met the mischievous
eyes.

Yes, very well," he replied.

And Mr. Barnard is there ! How I should
like to see him again ! I once met him in Somers
Do you know anything of his family?"

 Would you just be kind enough to feel my
pulse?" interrupted the mother; '''I think I must
have an increase of fever."

Pynsent did so and said it was rather quick,
but there was nothing alarming in it. Again he
met those wicked blue eyes, and saw the mouth
curled into a smile. He bent over the invalid, to
hide his own amusement, and whilst he did so,
the owner of the wicked blue eyes presented a dose
of soothing medicine to her mamma : in so doing
she managed, either inadvertently or by malice
prepense, to stretch across Pynsents head, and
fairly to push off his wig, which fell into his lap.

Ten thousand pardons !" she exclaimed, stooping
to pick up the wig, and resolutely fixing the
eyes on her poor confused victim.

 Louisa ! I am ashamed of you ! " exclaimed
the mother ; " you certainly never will be anything
but a child. Really, my dear Sir,  anything
so alarming, so distressing. You do not care for
any one's feelings."

Do not be quite shocked, my dear Mother, but
now allow me to introduce you to an old friend ina
natural state. Mr. Pynsent Burton of Fairfield,

brother of my very dear friends, Jessie and Anna ;
nephew of two most excellent uncles, and member
of the best family in the whole world. Forgive
me , but I do not think the wig improved you, and
your hair is nearly as thick as ever, and you are
neither bald nor greys

The pretty widow had spoken hastily, without
looking at Pynsent, holding the wig in her hand.
When Pynsent rose, in astonishment, and their
eyes fairly met, she added, frankly holding out her
right hand 

Is it possible that you have quite forgotten the
Missey school-girl whom you used to despise and
torment ? How altered I must be ! But I almost
knew you yesterday, and was quite sure of you today."


Is it possible ? " exclaimed Pynsent, suddenly
aroused as from a dream. '' I am very glad to see
you ; I little thought  I little expected  " and he
grasped the proffered hand so warmly by way of
completing his sentence, that the colour rose
brightly in the cheek of the young widow.

And now you must shake hands with Mamma,
who knows you quite well," she said, approaching
the invalid, who, in the excitement of the little
scene, had actually risen, unaided, from the sofa,
and was ready to give Pynsent a friendly greeting.

Pynsent had spoken the truth : he was very glad
to see Louisa Colville again ; or , as we must now
cal hers Mrs. Egerton. When he looked at her
once more he was astonished that he had not recognized
her. She was quite as pretty as when he
saw her at Fairfield : more womanly of fuller form,
older, in short, but the same. There were the same
soft blue eyes that kindled into such fun and wickedness
at times : the same serene mouth, that became
so eloquent of mirth when anything moved
the spirit of wit within, and the same clear expression
of countenance. The complexion and hair
were darker, and the widows cap was a disguise
in itself, and these were the principal changes. She
did not look as if grief for a departed husband had
very much subdued her spirits. Pynsent felt rather
glad than sorry to see those widows weeds ; he did
not stop to inquire why, hard-hearted fellow ! for
he knew that he had no personal interest in the
matter : still he looked at them approvingly. He
could not imagine that fair young woman with a
husband twenty or thirty years older than herself.

Allow me to restore you your properties said
Louisa, gently pushing the wig across the table,
' and to beg your pardon for my rudeness ; but it
was too irresistible. I suppose you think you are
too captivating in your own proper head of hair ?"

' Louisa ! " said Mrs. Colville reproachfully.

I am only beginning what I used to long todo
when I was afraid Mamma  to pay Mr. Present
Burton off for innumerable insults. Do you
remember how you used to annoy Anna and me''

I only did you justice' said Pynsent ; ' but
Anna when did you see her last ?"

I have not seen her for some years, and she
has quite ceased to correspond with me."

Here followed a long and interesting conversation,
during which much was said that has been
abbacy mentioned in this history, and some few
events that have been omitted. From Mrs. Colville
Pynsent learnt that General Colville and Colonel
Egerton had both fallen in the dreadful war
still carrying on in India, and in which Nelson
Burford and Chatham Michelson were engaged.
She spoke of Nelson as having acquired a considerable
reputation for bravery, and of his promotion
to his majority on the field of battle, as a mark of
great honour. His courage and prudence were so
remarkable, that his men would follow him blindly
into any danger or difficulty, and the natives both
feared and respected him.

I met him once," said Louisa, " and inquired
after you all at Fairfield. He answered very calmly
until I said something about Anna, You know

the firm expression of mouth he always has, that
I used to declare was like one of the lions in
the Zoological Gardens when he was meditating
a spring. Well, his teeth must have regularly
stuck into one another when I asked for Anna.
He could not separate them. I had to wait an
age for an answer, and then he said he had not
heard of Mrs. Michelson for some time. I pitied
him when I saw how pale he turned, and felt convinced
that he must have been attached to Anna,
which I rather suspected at Fairfield. Major Burford
is a man I should not like to offend : I am
sure he would never forgives

'' He would never forget," said Pynsent ; ' he is
of too noble a nature not to forgive. And what
do they say of Michelson?"

I hear that he and Anna are universal favourites,
but I fear they are extravagant. He is as
gallant an officer as possible when on duty, but
careless in his general habits. In short, he is
what he always was, and Anna is as fascinating as
ever, and the idol of everybody."

We hear," said Pynsent, " that she is trying
to make up her mind to return to England with
her little girl, who is another of the doomed victims
of that horrible India. She does not like to
leave her husband, and cannot resolve to send the
child home : she seems wrapped up in her."

I saw her once/ rejoined Louisa, " after the
death of one of her children. I shall never forget
her : just as excitable as she used to be in joy, she
was in grief, and you would have imagined that
the whole world had been suddenly torn from her.
Poor Anna ! "

You are not like your sailor brother, Mr. Burton//
said Mrs. Colville; "he is so very handsomest


A doubtful compliment, Mamma," said Louisa.

Peter and Anna were the beauties of the family,"
said Pynsent, smiling.

I greatly admire dark men," said Mrs. Colville
; " but I do not quite like your regular brunettes,
they want softness. Oh dear me ! this conversation
is too much for me, I fear."

"That reminds me that I have a dozen patients
to see," said Pynsent, starting up and looking at
his watch. "It is so pleasant to talk over old
times, that I have forgotten my duty."

And this ? ' said Louisa, touching the wig.

I suppose I have forgotten that also," replied
Pynsent; "will you give it lodging for the present?"


Till you go to visit some other lady patients ?
I will put it up in lavender. I know from whom
you stole it."

And I am to go on with the mixture and take
everything that is strengthening P-* asked Mrs.
Colville.

Pynsent looked compassionately at Louisa, ashe
said "Yes;" but there was no sign of discontent
or satire in her face. She had resumed the
placid demeanour of years gone by.

"You have forgiven me?" she said, almost
shyly, as they shook hands.

Pynsent s hearty, friendly look and shake of the
hand were the answer, as he hastened away.

That evening Pynsent took himself to task, as
was his wont, something as follows : 

Pish ! pshaw ! folly ! nonsense ! If anybody
else had been such a fool, I should have voted him
to a lunatic asylum. I do not believe I am myself.
In short, I always had a certain kind of belief
in metempsychosis and transmigration of souls,
and somebody else has come into me, I am sure of
it. That somebody else has been a confounded
sawney, and always falling in love. He saw a
school girl and a baby ten or twelve years ago at
his own house, and just because they were pretty,
blue eyed dolls, he fancies himself in love with
both, alternately, as they chance to present themselves
before him. No, no, as the little woman
said, returning from the fair, ' This is none o me.'

It wasn't Pynsent Burton who was almost sentimental
about that pale lily of a child Tiny, only
yesterday, and is indulging in admiring thoughts
of that pretty full-blown rose of a mischievous little
widow today ? If it is, I will never say my
soul is my own again, as long as I live. How she
is come out ! She used to be as shy as a pigeon,
now she is able to chatter like a magpie. I wonder
whether I should like her more or less than I
used to like her, upon further acquaintance. There
certainly is a power in early associations that there
is in nothing else. I should have passed her by
without a second thought, if I had not known her
years ago ; and now I think her so very pretty and
agreeable. Well, here goes ! I make a vow that
I will never think of any woman again as long as
I live ;  I, an old bachelor, who have devoted myself
to science and  and my dear sister Jessie for
life ! Come along, old fellow ! "

With this winding up, Pynsent opens the bookcase,
and takes down a ponderous medical book,
into which he resolutely plunges, and, we hope and
believe, forgets all the women in the universe before
he has read two pages.

But Pynsent is obliged to visit his patient daily;
nay, so conveniently near is Duke-street, that he
is sometimes sent for twice a day. The ladies

remove into a lodging to continue near him, and
Mrs. Colville allows herself to be a trifle better.
He sees the pretty school-girl that he lost his heart
to years ago, transformed into the almost prettier
woman, and he sees her under fresh auspices. As
the cheerful nurse and companion of a nervous,
exigeante mother, her qualities of heart and her
disposition are brought out. True, she must have
her jest, either half smothered, or sparkling out
openly, upon everything that touches her strong
sense of the ridiculous, even though' that mother
be the subject of it ; but she is always ready to
amuse or attend to the imaginary miseries of the
invalid, forgetful of her own amusement.

Thus for about a month Pynsent and Louisa
are constantly thrown together ; sometimes alone,
sometimes with Mrs. Colville. They even have
begun to quarrel over a game of chess when Present
has a spare hour in the evening, and to make
various disputes upon every species of folly. At
this epoch Charles and Tiny have returned to take
up their abode, until September, in the little cottage
at Peckham, resolutely refusing Pynsent *s
hospitality as regards board and lodging, but taking
possession of the old studio at the top of the
house, for painting. Pynsent is happy to find that
he can meet Tiny without any extraordinary sensations

, and treat her in a most brotherly way.
He is proud of her, too, in spite of the uncertainty
that hangs over her; and when he takes her to
call on Mrs. Egerton, and sees the two adoratas
together, he laughs in his sleeve, and says, " What a
fool I have been ! the first and last time, however.
Then he compares the two, and returns to his
notion of metempsychosis. The soft, plump, arch,
blue-eyed Louisa ; the pale, slight, spiritual, violet-eyed
Tiny ! Light and dark are not more different.
In spite of widowhood, and the past miseries
of war and danger, the one is rosy and full of
life; whilst the other, just married, and with every
hope of the future bright and glorious, is pensive
and shadowy, with a certain look of the " grim
spectre  in her face.

Mamma is mad about Fairfield today's' said
Louisa to Pynsent. " She has suddenly taken it
into her head that Fairfield would cure her, and
that Jessie would make up for the deficiencies in
her daughter. Do you think Jessie would take
compassion on us?"

'' You shall judge for yourself," said Pynsent,
giving a letter to Louisa, who read it, and said 

Oh, how very kind ! Welcome to such poor
board and lodging as Fairfield can afford ! Dear,
happy, quiet Fairfield ! And you will all come

VOL. III. G

down, will you not?" turning to Pynsent , Charles,
and Tiny. "Do you remember that one happy
Christmas, Tiny? I never knew real happiness
before, and scarcely since."

Nor I, until now," said Tiny timidly.

Before another week was passed, Pynsent,
Charles, and Tiny saw Mrs. Colville and her
daughter off per railway for Fairfield, and Mrs.
Colville' s last words were, " I do not know what
I shall do without you, Mr. Burton : you have
really done me good."

Fairfield is next best. Mamma," said Louisa,
as she waved her hand to her friends, who stood
to see the long train of carriages dart past one
after another with that speed which so many have
attempted, ineffectually, to describe.

She is very, very nice, is she not, Pynsent?"
asked Tiny.

Very : all ladies are," was the reply.

Chapter XXXVIII.

No, no, no, no ! Come, let's away to prison :
When thou dost ask me blessing, I'U kneel down
And ask of thee forgiveness."  King Lear.

We must allow some six or eight months to pass
slowly by during which time much may have
happened of moment that we have not time to
chronicle, and much that will evolve in the sequel.
The scene is the large airy room in the upper story
of Pynsents house in Duke-street, which has been
devoted to Charles as a studio ; the actors are the
young artist and his wife. The room has an excellent
light for painting, and Pynsent has caused
it to be made in every possible way commodious
and agreeable. It is, like most similar rooms, hung
round with sketches of every description. Here
is a little bit of English, there of Italian scenery ;
in one corner the head of a peasant girl, in another
the figure of a Swiss hunter ; on this side
a group of English fishermen, on that a storm
at sea ; and so on throughout the studio : little

g2

bits from nature rough, and, to the uninitiated
eye, coarse, and of small value, but ready to be
worked into large paintings for immortality. Not
the least conspicuous are various sketches of Tiny
in different postures, and one or two of Pynsent.
There are several easels in the room, on one of
which is the picture that first attracted Charleses
attention at Peckham, that of the mad beggar,
done by Tiny ; on another the interior of a prison.
Colours, boxes, pieces of rag, canvas, boards for
paintings, and brushes, are scattered upon every
available table, whilst a copy of Shakspeare and a
few other books prove that Literature is not forgotten.


We come, at last, to the one grand object of the
studio. It is a picture that reaches almost from
floor to ceiling. Were it in a frame, it would inevitably
suffer the fate of the Vicar of Wakefield's
family portraits : it would not get in or out of the
door. The subject is from King Lear, and is Lear
and Cordelia in prison. The moment chosen is
taken from Lear's own words 

Alien thou dost ask me blessing, I'll kneel down
And ask of thee forgiveness."

The old king is apparently rising from his kneeling
posture, having one arm thrown round Cor-delia's

waist, and one hand in hers, as she attempts
to raise him. His eyes are fixed with a loving,
helpless, bright insanity upon her face, as she
bends slightly over him, whilst hers beam with a
filial devotion upon him. Both are portraits. The
insane beggar sat to Tiny for King Lear, and
Tiny sat to Charles for Cordelia. It is a beautiful
picture. Husband and wife have exerted
every power of conception and execution to produce
it, and the ui;ion of love and genius never
conceived or executed anything more perfect. As
in Charles's last picture, there is a strong light
thrown upon the principal figures, which streams
through a small grating in the prison, whilst the
remainder of the painting is in deep shadow. Cordelia
is represented in her queenly robes of Tyrian
purple, over which her long hair falls, having
escaped from the jewelled head-gear that had been
supposed to bind it before she entered the prison.
Some of the last effects are now being given to
those flowing locks, and Tiny stands, a second
Cordelia, with her long hair dishevelled, whilst
Charles labours at the picture and portrait. It
seems a strange repetition or duplicate, so like is
the living, breathing woman to the pale, lovely,
half ethereal Cordelia of the picture, bending over
her beloved father, and endeavouring to raise him

from his too abject posture : just such a personification
of grief, pity, and love might Shakspeare
himself have imagined, and just such a face of
wild tenderness and joy and madness might he
have given to King Lear.

 You are tired, dearest Tiny,' says Charles, ashe
puts one extra ray of light to the beaming eye
of Cordelia, and withdraws a pace to see its effect,
then looks at his wife. "Yon drill be glad at
least when this weary work is done, will you not,
my Cordelia?" and he strokes the long hair and
kisses the pale cheek.

Tired ? glad ? Oh no ! '' replies Tiny ; " when
did I ever know what life and enjoyment were
before ? To paint such a picture, and with you !
to have labour, fame, name, life itself, one with
you, and to know that as long as any of these last
we two live together ! Is there anything more to
wish in this world ?'

"And what do you think of Cordelia?" said
Charles, drawing her nearer to the picture.

That she is beautifully painted, at least," was
the reply.

They stood hand in hand for a few seconds before
the picture.

I can improve that ! " exclaimed Tiny, suddenly
moving off and taking up a brush and

palette ; then, standing on a stool before the
painting, she added a few white hairs to the head
of King Lear, that increased the wildness of the
effect.

The eyes want more melancholy she said ;
how can we give it ? There must have been a
large proportion of melancholy in his countenance."

The mouth would convey melancholy as well
as the eyes," said Pynsent. ' Have you not seen
the slight movement of the lips that try to smile
make a face much more sad than any amount of
expression in the eyes ?"

'' Yes ; but the expression of the eyes is affected
by the mouth : both must agree."

True. Give a touch to that mouth, and you
will see the eyes apparently assume a different expression."


And so it proved. The touch of melancholy
thrown into the kings face completed the perfection
of the whole.

It cannot be better, Tiny ! " exclaimed Charles,
delighted.

They continued to work together upon the picture,
altering, improving, and adding to, what
seemed to want neither alterations, improvements,
nor additions ; and continuing at intervals the less
interesting portions of background and other accessaries.


My Cordelia looks pale and fagged said
Charles. " I shall be so glad when the Academy
opens,, and we shall fairly have done onr work ;
for, as long as one day remains, we shall go on
with onr  last touches and still never think them
the last'

' You have promised a visit to Fairfield, if the
picture sets. Think of the joy of seeing all that
dear party, and taking Jessie your first hundred
pounds towards completing the paying off of that
odious mortgage V

Then Fairfield will be free, and we shall go on
with a clear path before us, having all helped to
raise the family name and respectability by honest
labour and upright intention'

I rather think we are reckoning without being
quite sure of our host'' said Tiny timidly. " Remember
the fable of the girl and her eggs."

' Without our host ? No ! " exclaimed Charles.
I am sure of selling this picture : your King
Lear alone is worth the money, if there is justice
in England."

Haydn far surpassed my King Lear, and he
was not sally appreciated until after his death,"
suggested Tiny.

'' Tiny, you are of a desponding nature."

Poor Tiny was standing, or rather kneeling, on

the topmost step of a pair of steps, painting energetically
; but, in truth, she was so tired that her
second self, her dear Charleses beautiful Cordelia,
began to appear a dreadful uncertainty, and she
was thinking, " What if the picture does not sell,
after all?" With weariness of body how the hopes
grow weary too !

I see how it is," said Charles, suddenly
mounting the steps behind her, and lifting her
off, " you are half dead with fatigue. Now, give
me the brush and the palette and the apron.
There ! go and wash your hands, and put up the
hair, and make yourself a tidy little Tiny again,
and fit for Pynsents sight."

I tell you what it is, good people," said a
voice in the passage. The door opened, and Present
appeared. ' I will turn you out of this room,
and sentence you to the back attic. Here have I
been waiting dinner for this last half-hour, whilst
you have been torturing that mad old king and
his beautiful, but half-attired, daughter. I mean
that as a compliment to you. Mistress Cordelia."

Tiny slipped away to make herself neat.

You will kill that poor child, Charles, if you
let her work so much," said Pynsent. " I tell you
she is not equal to it. It was a great mistake to
allow you two painters to come together ; we shall

G 3

see you dying, both of you, not ' of a rose, in aromatic
pain but ' of oils in consumptive languor "

We must go through with it now," said Present,
" but Tiny shall work no more."

In due time the great picture was finished, and
sent to the Royal Academy. It commanded at
once a good and conspicuous position. Every one
had augured, from the last, a first-rate contribution
this year, and no one was disappointed.

But Charles and Tiny only waited to see it
placed, to start for Fairfield: urged by all their
friends, when the labour was over, they sought rest
and country air, both of them looking ill, and feeling
wearied by intense application. The concentration
of the whole powers, both mental and
bodily, for one twelvemonth, on one subject, is
enough to wear out stronger health than either
Charles or Tiny possessed ; although, alas ! numbers
of the equally gifted are frequently compelled
to labour for years without either change or holiday.


It remained for Pynsent to watch the effect produced
by his brother's picture. He was at the
opening of the Exhibition, and tried, in vain, to
appear calm, as he listened to the comments made
on a painting upon which that brothers livelihood
depended for the coming year. Ah ! ye critics and

connoisseurs have some pity when you cut up
what has been finished with so much care and
anxiety, and think there may be a parent or a
brother of the artist at your elbow, hating you,
though unknown, for your freedom of opinion !

But Pynsent heard comparatively few disparaging
remarks.  King Lear and Cordelia in Prison
had made his brother's reputation, together with
that of his young wife, whose name was henceforth
to be immortalized with his.

What a Lear !" and " What a Cordelia !" were
the general expressions. Those who were not connoisseurs
enough to recognize the power of the
painting, had taste enough to admire the beauty of
Cordelia ; and those who looked for the wonderful,
were satisfied with the face of the King. The two
figures, thrown out in strong relief from the dark,
massive walls of the prison, with its iron bars and
chains, its cup of water and rough pallet and stool,
were generally considered as fine as anything in
the Exhibition, where so much was admirable.

Pynsent walked through the rooms, and was
pleased to find that he saw no purely historical
painting that he considered finer than his brother's.
He returned to it again in time to see Mr. Michelson
approach the picture. He could not help feeling
an interest in all that Mr. Michelson did, said.

or thought, though he despised the man: He was
too nearly connected with Anna, and had too
powerful an influence over her and hers, to be disregarded
; moreover he had been the purchaser of
Charleses last picture. On the present occasion he
felt that his fiat was of importance, and he stood
so as to watch the effect the painting might have
upon him. He was alone, and so was Pynsent, in
the midst of the crowd that surrounded the great
attraction. At first he walked leisurely up to the
picture, and with book in one hand, and eyeglass
in the other, appeared to be about to examine it
critically. No sooner however had he glanced at it
than he turned very pale ; Pynsent thought he
would have sunk to the earth ; his hands trembled,
and the book dropped on the floor, and the glass
and chain to their usual places on his waistcoat.
Some one near picked up the book, and restored
it ; he took it mechanically, without any acknowledgment.
Every one but Pynsent was too busy
with his own affairs to notice Mr. Michelson, but
he felt really thankful when he saw that gentleman
stagger to a seat opposite the picture : when seated
he still gazed, apparently, upon the principal figure,
Cordelia, as if transfixed. A gentleman approached
him with " Ah ! Michelson ! how d' ye do ? Fine,
that, isn't it''

He seated himself beside Mr. Michelson, who
did not appear to notice him.

"You are in a trance, or entranced' said the
stranger , giving him a poke with his elbow.

"Ah! yes! Really ! is that you, Marshall ?''
stammered Mr. Michelson at last.

"What do you think of the paintings' asked
Mr. Marshall.

Painting ! yes ! Can you  can you tell me
who that is''

That is Cordelia. Have you not seen the
catalogue ? It is by the same artist, I fancy, who
painted your ' Sedgemoor.' "

"What is his name? who is she?"

The name of both is Burton. ' Mr. and Mrs,
C. Burton' is the signature appended to the motto."

"I am not feeling well," said Mr. Michelson,
still looking at the picture.

What is the matter ? you are as pale as death."

I do not know, but if I should be ill, secure
that picture for me at any price."

"Shall I help you out, and get a cab?" asked
Mr. Marshall anxiously.

"Thank you."

Mr. Michelson rose with difficulty, and, assisted
by his friend, left the room, still looking back at
the picture. Pynsent followed. When they reached

the steps of the Academy, Pynsent hurried for a
cab, and said to Mr. Marshall as he passed him 

"Allow me to call a cab. I have been watching
your friend for some time, and saw how ill he
looked.'

When the cab came, Mr. Michelson could
scarcely stand, and Pynsent assisted him into it.
Mr. Marshall looked alarmed.

I am a surgeon ; I do not think you need be
terrified, said Pynsent; "it appears mere 


Will you do me the favour of accompanying
us'' said Mr. Marshall.

Pray do'' said Mr. Michelson.

The three got into the cab, and drove to Grosvenor
Square, Mr. Michelson's residence. Pynsent
went into his house for the first time in his life.
He told the footman to go at once for his master's
medical man. Mr. Michelson did not know him,
so he felt his pulse, and said he thought it had
been a sudden spasm at the heart, but that he was
recovering. Aside to the friend Pynsent declared
the attack to have been a very near escape from
paralysis. By the time that Dr. Dysart, Mr. Michelson's
physician, arrived, the common applications
in such cases had taken due effect, and Present
slipped away without further delay.

The next thing that Pynsent heard of Mr. Michelson
was, that he had purchased Charleses picture,
and sent a cheque to him for five hundred
pounds. A few weeks afterwards he had a letter
from Fairfield, announcing, amongst other matters,
the arrival of Mr. Michelson at the Hall, and the
report that he was in bad health ; also the pleasant
intelligence from Jessie, that Charles had paid ofi"
one hundred pounds of the mortgage, and that she
expected, at Christmas, to pay the remaining fifty,
and thus to free Fairfield for ever from this longstanding
pump on its constitution. "We intend
having a jubilee,' she said,  when it is fairly paid,
and you are to come down for the occasion. Louisa
proposes a champagne supper and ball; and the
absurdities constantly suggested amongst us are
incredible. Uncle James declares for a bonfire;
Captain Burford for an illumination of the three
houses, Fairfield, the Grange, and his own; and
an especial epistle to Nelson to invite him over for
the occasion. I think you and I, at least, shall
feel a weight removed from our minds, that has
hung over them ever since that day in the hatfield ;
do you remember it? Louisa is more amusing
and charming than ever, and if you do not comedown
and fall over head and ears in love with her,
I will disown you. I willingly relinquish you as a

bachelor-brother upon this condition, and must be
contented with Peter. Mrs. Colville is better, and
becomes a degree more interesting; she lives on
your daily letters of advice, and thinks you much
more clever than Uncle Timothy, who has nevertheless
to hear all her complaints. His sight is
certainly improving ; he can now see his way about
tolerably, and begins to hope for recovery. Little
Pickle is very much like his uncle, godfather, and
namesake, and wants to see you very much. He
takes immensely to Tiny, as who does not ? Tiny
quite devotes herself to Uncle Timothy, and they
suit each other famously'

Not long after the receipt of this letter there
came Indian news of great importance, that occasioned
tears of pride at once, and sorrow, to our
friends. The war was drawing to a close, and
the papers contained frightful accounts of havoc
amongst our troops, made by the expiring efforts
of Indian valour. Major Burford had been sent
into the interior, and his division had been surprised
by a large army of natives. He and his
men had fought so desperately, that they put their
enemies to flight, but just as the tide of victory
was turning in his favour, he received a cut on his
right arm that entirely disabled it. "Bearings
the journal proceeded to say, " that his disappearance

might discourage his men and give new hopes
to the enemy, he instantly took np his sword with
his left arm, and waving it over his head, shouted
to his men '' Victory and impelling his horse onwards,
dashed after the enemy, followed by the remainder
of his battalion. This last gallant effort
won the day. In a few minutes afterwards this
noble officer was seen to fall from his horse, and
as the officer who fought near him. Captain Wright,
dismounted to assist him, he perceived, for the first
time, that the Major held his sword with his left
hand, and that he was fainting from loss of blood,
owing to a wound that had nearly severed his right
arm from his body. We hear that his Christian
name is Nelson : a fitting representative of that
illustrious hero. His arm is amputated, but he is
doing well. We have no doubt that speedy promotion
and honour will follow this gallant action.
The enemy were entirely routed by the soldiers,
infuriated at the wound their deservedly beloved
officer had received, and there have been few passages
in the story of Indian warfare more honourable
both to the commander and his men.

The next mail brought a letter from Nelson, or
rather dictated by him, and signed with his left
hand. Many a tear did that letter occasion to the
good Captain Burford and Jessie, as they read it

over and over again, with pride and sorrow. It
was so modest , so genuine ; lie only regretted the
loss of his arm, because it prevented him from
pursuing the career he had begun; he did not
glory in the fact that he was to retire upon full
pay and a colonelcy; he scarcely mentioned it;
neither did he do more than slightly allude to the
gratification he had experienced in receiving a testimonial
from his brother officers, in the shape of
a massive inkstand of Indian gold ; but he hoped
that "he should be a better son to his excellent
father with his one arm, than he had been with
two''

The  Gazette' of the following month reported
Captain Michelson either killed or taken prisoner
in a skirmish with the natives, but brought no letters
either from Nelson or Anna, and the state of
anxiety experienced by our party at Fairfield will
be readily understood by all who have had relations
in India during times of war ; that terrible India !
which carries off so many of our best and bravest,
either never to return, or to return changed and
aged themselves, and finding every one they loved
changed and aged as well.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

Thou glorious mirror, where the A ] mighty 's form

Glasses itself in tempests ; in aU time,
Calm or convulsed,  in breeze, or gale, or storm,

Icing the pole, or in the torrid came

Dark-heaving ;  boundless, endless, and sublime.
The image of eternity,  the throne

Of the Invisible ; even from out thy slime
The monsters of the deep are made : each zone
Obeys thee ; thou goes forth dread, fathomless, alone."

Byron.

We must retrace the steps we have taken with
some of our friends, in order to pursue our course
for a time with others; and we must transport
ourselves to the deck of a vessel just about to sail
from India to England. A boat has reached the
ship with the last news of the war, and there is a
great commotion amongst the crew and passengers
eager to gain the latest intelligence. No authentic
despatches have been yet published, but various
reports of the killed and wounded in a late engagement
have been spread.

Amongst the passengers eagerly taking leave of
friends, or seeing to luggage, or listening to the

news just imported,, are Anna Michelson and her
little girl. Surrounded by a group of friends who
have come to see them on board, they look melancholy
and tearful, as if leaving India were a sad
thing to both.

*' Tell my husband that I shall write whenever
it is possible," said Anna to a lady who was holding
her hand. ' If I could only have waited for
him I should not have cared, but alone with this
poor sick child ! Oh, Mrs. Merton, it is dreadful !
And then the uncertainty of hearing from him !
and the war V Poor Anna's tears flowed apace.

Just as she heard that there was intelligence of
the war there was an order to clear the decks, and
her friends were obliged to leave her.

You will find the captain most attentive, and
everything that can be done is arranged for your
comfort. The surgeon is a very clever, intelligent
man, and will be everything to Missey," said one
of the gentlemen, as he pressed Anna's hand and
turned away.

Anna was squeezing through the crowd, to gain
a last look at her friends as they descended to the
boat, when she heard some one near her say 

"I hear that Major Michelson's wife is onboard
: I hope she has not heard, for these sudden
reports are often unfounded."

"'He and the whole troop cut to pieces was
the last news/ said some one else.

Anna gave a loud shriek, and turned round to
discover the speakers, but fell down insensible on
the deck before she could perceive them.

A black woman, her child's nurse, who had
been standing with the little girl at a distance, ran
forward, and, taking her in her arms, bore her out
of the crowd. A tall military-looking man, who
was standing near, attracted by the cry, followed,
and asked the woman in Hindostan whether he
could be of any assistance. She begged him to
take care of the little girl, whilst she and an
elderly man, a fellow-servant, carried their mistress
to her cabin below. The gentleman took the
child's hand, and walked with her about the deck
in search of the surgeon, whom he found, and
sent at once to Anna. Meanwhile the ship was
under weigh, and they were floating over the
Indian Ocean.

I cannot walk any mores' said little Anna, " I
will go to Mamma, if you pleases

The tall gentleman looked at the child, and immediately
perceived that she was ill. She was, as
so many English-Indian children are, pale and
sickly ; she was tall and thin, with large eyes and
long eyelashes, that gave the idea of consumption ;

she was more like her father than her mother and
had all his bright restlessness of expression.

"May I go to Mamma?" she said again,, ''I
am so tired."

Will you not sit down here a very little with
me, and watch the ship sail away from India?"
asked the stranger, leading her gently to a bench.
Shall you like to go to England?"

I don't know : I shall like to see my aunt and
my little brother, but I shall not like to leave my
papa."

And will you tell me what your name is ?"

' Missey  they all call me Missey."

But you have a Christian name,  some other
name besides Missey ?"

Oh yes ; little Annabella, Papa calls me, because,
he says, my mamma is big Annabella."

"Annabella," repeated the stranger, looking
into the child's face, " that is a pretty name."

"And my mamma is very pretty," said little
Anna, a flush so bright spreading over her face,
that the stranger thought she had suddenly been
restored to perfect health by the sea-breeze ; " my
mamma is beautiful, everybody says so. But I am
so tired,  I must go to my mamma."

I will take you soon, if nurse does not come
back for you ; but if you put up the little feet, so.

and rest your head against me, so, I think you
will be more comfortable

The stranger procured a cloak to put under her,
and arranged her little faded figure upon it,
making her use his knee as a pillow, and in a few
minutes she was asleep. He smoothed her hair
and laid his hand on her little shoulder protecting,
drawing a heavy sigh as he did so.

Shortly afterwards the man-servant appeared.

I beg your pardon, Sir, I fear Missey is troublesome.
Poor dear ! shall I take her down to
the cabin ? he said.

"Not unless you particularly wish it  not on
my account," said the gentleman. " How is your
mistress ?"

As bad as can be. Sir. She is no sooner out
of one fit than she is into another : I never saw
any one take on so; and, maybe, it is not true,
after aU."

You mean the sudden news from the interior ?"

"Yes, Sir. They say my master and all his
men have been regularly butchered."

"Was Major Michelson your master? and is
that lady his wife, and this his child ?" asked the
stranger, with a start of surprise and distress.

"Too surely. Sir," said the man; "and God
help my poor mistress, for she doted on him.

though they did say  ' the man checked himself.


The gentleman suddenly raised his hand from
little Anna,, and drew it across his eyes.

Shall I take the young lady, Sir T' asked the
man.

"It seems a pity to disturb her. When she
awakes I will bring her down to you. There does
not seem to be any positive certainty of this dreadful
event having happened. Is there no one who
will tell your mistress so V

"Oh yes, Sir; all the lady passengers are
trying hard to make her believe it, when she is
sensible ; but she can only repeat the words,  He
and the whole troop cut to pieces V over and over
again, as if she had no tongue for anything else."

God help her !" ejaculated the unknown.

The child slept on peaceably, unconscious of
what was passing beneath and around her.

The black nurse came to see after her, and to
thank the stranger for his kindness.

The ladies think. Sir, that the sight of Missey
might restore her mamma," she said ; " but I am
afraid for the dear child. She is too weak to bear
any exertion, and so fond of her mamma, that I
think it would be her death if she saw her as she

This passed in Hindostan.

The little girl must have heard it in her sleep,
for she suddenly aroused herself, and in a pettish
but authoritative voice said 

"No, it would not; I will go to my Mamma
directly. Take me to Mamma ;" and herewith she
began to cry.

Oh dear ! oh dear ! we must not let her cry
for the world. Missey, darling ! done cry, you
shall come to your Mamma directly' and, taking
the poor, sickly, spoilt child in her arms, the black
woman carried her down to the cabin that had
been appropriated to their especial service.

Here two or three lady-passengers were endeavouring
to comfort Anna, and the surgeon was
still using restoratives, in the hope of calming the
paroxysms of grief, which, with her usual impetuosity,
she allowed to have full vent.

Mamma ! my own Mamma V cried the little
Anna as the nurse brought her into the cabin,
"what is the matter? Don't cry so, my own
Mamma !" and she jumped from the nurse's arms
into those of her mother, and began to sob and
scream almost as violently.

You will kill Missey, Ma'am," said the servant
in a tone of extreme alarm.

The words had the desired effect. In a moment

VOL. III. H

Anna rose from the sofa on which she had thrown
herself, and subduing the rising scream took her
child in her arms, and begged her to be quiet for
her sake. The surgeon told the ladies that he
thought they had better leave them together for a
short time, and, giving a few directions to susanna,
the nurse, quitted the cabin himself.

It was a long time before the mother and nurse
could succeed in calming the excited and sobbing
child. She had much of Annans impetuosity of
nature, and she was dangerously ill. It was on
her account wholly that they were now leaving
India,  a last hope, and a forlorn one, of saving
her life. The other children had died at her age,
and of the same complaint. The affection of both
parents was centred in her, and all, even to the
leaving Major Michelson behind, must be sacrificed
to her.

"What is the matter, my own Mamma?" was
the cry of the child as she gazed into her mother's
swollen and pallid face, so changed in one short
hour.

It is only leaving India and your Papa, Missy
dear," whispered the nurse.

Then let us go back again directly. Why did
we come away?"

At last they succeeded in pacifying her, and in

getting her to lie down on the sofa. Anna was
obliged to sit on a low stool at her side, to hold
her hand, and to lean over her : it was a touching
picture. The child soon sobbed herself to rest;
the mother still watched, motionless, for fear of
disturbing her ; her head resting on one arm on
the head of the sofa, her eyes bent on her last,
only hope. Tears, that she could not move to wipe
away, fell on the child's hair in torrents, and made
it wet, as with the rain from heaven. The poor
black servant knelt down in a corner of the cabin,
and said her simple prayers.

And still the beautiful ship sailed over a smooth
sea, away from sultry India, towards Anna's native
land that she had so often longed to see.

All this time the strange gentleman was pacing
the deck, turning, from time to time, to the cabin
stairs, in the hope of seeing some one who might
tell him of Mrs. Michelson and her child. The surgeon
satisfied him that the great shock had passed
away, and that Anna was tolerably calm, but he
had never, he said, seen such passionate grief.

There was an expression of melancholy in the
stranger's face as he turned away from the surgeon
and went to look out upon the broad ocean. It
was a grave, calm face, and belonged to a soldierlike
and dignified figure.

h2

More than a week passed before he saw his little
friend Anna again. Both she and her mother had
been ill; sea-sickness added to the grief of the
one, and the weakness of the other had quite prostrated
them, and the black nurse said she did not
think that either of them would reach England, if
some change for the better did not take place.

At last, however, one clear, sunshiny afternoon,
the child was brought on deck. She asked at once
for the kind gentleman ; who came to her from a
group of passengers with whom he had been conversing.
He was shocked to see how much worse
the little girl looked. A kind of sofa-bed had been
made for her upon deck, by her nurse, and he sat
down by her side. Her mother had tied her white
frock and hair with black ribbons, and she said
confidentially in a whisper 

Mamma cries all day long ; and she has cut off

all her beautiful black hair, and put on her black

satin gown, and made an ugly cap, and put me on

these black ribbons, and they won tell me why.

Will you tell me''

I cannot, dear'' said the stranger, looking into

the wistful little face.

I like you," said the child, putting her thin

hand into his. " You are kind, like my own papa.

What is your name ?"

You may call me what you like' was the reply.

Then I will call you Uncle, because of my own
Uncle Pynsent that Mamma talks about''

The stranger smiled sadly.

Missey must not talk much, Sir' said the servant.


Then I must read to her, to amuse her."
"Oh yes! if you please' said little Anna eagerly.
The gentleman went down to his cabin and began
to turn over his store of books. He searched in
vain for anything that seemed to promise amusement
to a child. At last he took a large Bible in
his hand and returned to the deck.

Oh, that is a Bible !" exclaimed the child with
an air of disappointment; "that is a Sunday
book."

But suppose we see what a pleasant book it is
for every day. Do you know all the beautiful
stories of children that there are in that book?"

No, I never read any stories in it," said the
child, brightening up.

And did no one never read them to you ?"

No ; it was so hot, and I used to be so tired
on a Sunday. Mamma and Papa used to read it
out loud sometimes, but I did not know what it
meant. They told me that it was the book that
taught us to be good and to go to heaven, where

my little brothers are gone. I wonder whether I
shall go to heaven and see them again ?"

'' Yes if you are like the good people the Bible
tells us of."

' But I done think I am very good.'

Then you must pray to be made good ; but we
will see what the Bible says."

The stranger opened upon the story of Joseph,
always so delightful to children. He did not read
it, but he related it, adding vivid descriptions of
scenery here and there, or places, such as his knowledge
or imagination supplied, and which served to
fix the little girls attention. He had evidently the
talent of a story-teller  one as rare as useful. The
black nurse, as well as the child, fixed her eyes on
the speaker; and, somewhat to his annoyance, he
soon perceived a little group of sailors standing at
a respectful distance, and listening attentively. His
audience was satisfactory, inasmuch as they seemed
quite awake to the story. Little Anna was breathless
until Joseph was out of prison, at which part
of the history her friend told her that he feared
she would be tired if she listened too long at a
time, and that they would finish it the following
day.

Day after day the little reading party met on
the deck, and each day the child seemed more and

more interested in what she heard. The gentleman
did not confine himself to the stories in the Old
Testament , but managed to make the parables and
historical portion of the New pleasant and intelligible
by illustration and explanation. The life and
sufferings of our blessed Saviour took a stronghold
on Anna's mind, and, with a beautiful faith,
she ready appropriated the fact that He had died
for her.

Now, Mamma, I am sure that I shall go to
heaven, and see my little brothers against she
said one day, " because Jesus Christ died to take
me there''

Her mother was frightened. She thought her
child was surely going to die, and almost resolved
to put a stop to the readings. But little Anna's
will was too absolute for this. She went through,
with tearful eyes and animated gestures, the account
she had heard of our Saviour's sufferings on
the Cross ; and ended by saying that He had invited
little children to come to Him, and she was
going. She should not be afraid to go to Christ,
because he was so gentle and kind.

Anna folded her in her arms and wept over her,
and entreated her not to say such things, or she
would kill her ; and then the child wept, and asked
her mother to come and see the good uncle that
she had found.

That evenings when the burning sun was set,
and the air becoming cool, Anna stole, for the first
time, to the deck with her child and the nurse.
She stood and watched the waves as they rose
around the ship, and fell back again into the immensity
of ocean. AVild and melancholy thoughts
flowed in with them. They were interrupted by
little Annans exclamation of 

cc There he is. Mamma ! Will you send for him ?
Oh, do send for him V'

As you like, my loves was her reply, almost
heedlessly.

I will go," said the child ; and she crept away
followed by her nurse, for, alas ! she had not the
spring and elasticity of childhood to enable her to
bound towards her friend.

He had seen them standing together at the side
of the vessel, and, as if fearful of intruding upon
the widow, was about to descend the cabin stairs.

 Will you come and see Mamma?" said little
Anna, taking his hand.

Will you give her my card first of all and then
say I will come if she wishes ?" said the gentleman,
putting his hand into his pocket and drawing out a
card.

Little Anna gave it to the nurse, saying 

You go ; I will stay with my uncle."

In a short time the nurse returned Yitli a request
that the gentleman would go to her mistress. He
turned very pale, but giving his hand to little Anna,
he walked towards her mother.

They found her leaning against the side of the
vessel, with her face seaward. Was it the Anna
Burton of olden time ? So pale  so harassed  her
dark hair gone  a widows cap making her look
still paler  and her figure bent by grief! The
stranger gazed on her as he approached. ' Can it
be ? he murmured.

Mamma ! here he is' said little Anna, pulling
her dress.

She held out her hand, whilst her head sank
down. The gentleman took it. Why does he take
it in his left hand ? Alas ! why ?

Ten years' sorrow and warfare have changed them
both  Nelson and Anna. It is a sad meeting:
sympathy and duty on the one side, repentance
and grief on the other.

The one is returning home laden with honours
and respected by all men, but bereft of a right arm
and with shattered health ; the other is returning
with a dying child, leaving, she believes, a
dead husband behind her, and with a mind and
body borne down by affliction: and thus they
meet after all that passed years ago ! How many

H 3

such meetings are there not in the course of this
life!

It is now for Nelson to support and comfort the
broken-hearted woman who nearly broke his strong
heart in those early days. There is no reproach oranger
now in his voice or look. He has faced death
in many ways lately,  eye to eye in battle, and
tooth to tooth on the sick bed; and he has conquered
the enemy for the present, and with him all old
animosities. He sees in Anna the friend of his
youth and the widow of his friend.

God will help you, Annas he says gently, his
manly voice choked by an emotion that has nothing
selfish in it.

She turned her large black eyes full upon him,
and burst into tears.

He led her gently to the stairs, asking if he
might come to her in her cabin.

By-and-by,' she answered ; and leaving him
and little Anna on deck, she went to her cabin followed
by the nurse.

In a short time he took little Anna down, and
told her to go in and ask whether he might see
her mamma. He was admitted. He seated himself
opposite Anna, who was on a sofa ; and the
child, with her usual sickly ' I am so tired. Mamma
V' lay down by her mother's side, and soon fell

asleep. The interview was awkward at first, but
Nelsonss self-possession soon made it pleasant.

I am ordered homes he said, " both because I
am useless in the army now  glancing at the
empty sleeve of his coat buttoned up to his waistcoat
 ' and because the amputation of my arm
left me so ill and weak, that a change was absolutely
necessary. So I have looked my last on
India, and on my professions This was said with
a sigh.

Oh ! they will all be so glad to see you. You
have, at least, lost nothing of the love they always
bore you, said Anna.

I do not know ; I am so altered."

Anna could have said,  You look better and handsomer
than ever, but she refrained. She had a
great fear of Nelson, and the old sin against him
was uppermost in her mind. She longed to say
something of her husband, but this consciousness
prevented her. Nelson anticipated her.

'' I think," he said gravely, " you are wrong to
give full belief to any accredited reports. We
have all been killed, over and over again, by sudden
reports. I was once said to have been cut
down in an engagement with the Natives, when I
had actually made them surrender to a man. In
my last battle, where I lost the most valuable part

of myself, I was reported dead. You must, at
least, think imprisonment or captivity quite as
probable as death ; and now there is sure to be an
exchange of prisoners, and at least temporary cessation
of hostilities

Oh ! if I could think so V said Anna, clasping
her hands and allowing one of the old gleams of
animation to shoot from her eyes.

Nelson saw it and withstood it.

We will hope it, at least. When did you see
him last?"

' He was with me till within the last three weeks
arranging everything for our departure. Then his
regiment was ordered to go to the interior to help
the  th Bengal Light Cavalry, and we were separated
at almost an hour's notice.

And you were obliged to sail so soon?'

Yes ; he left me with the understanding that
I was on no account to change our plans. He
said the life of our child depended upon her going
at once to England, and everything else must give
way to that. His return was uncertain, but it
was rather expected his regiment would be ordered
home shortly after this expedition."

You go direct home?"

Yes, I have written to announce our coming."

I can imagine the state of excitement they are

all in at the prospect of seeing you again. I did
not say when I should return but in a general
way hinted at the probability of its being soon. I
shall find my father much altered I fear."

Jessie says he is just the same as ever."

Do you know Aunt Jessie?" here broke in
little Anna roused from her usually slight slumber
by a sudden noise on deck.

' Yes, dear, I have known her all my life' replied
Nelson, with a pleasant smile than we have
seen on his face since he has been on board.

And do you love her as Mamma does ? "

Everybody loves your Aunt Jessie, little Anna,
and I hope you will grow up as good as she is."

The bigger Anna could not help glancing at
Nelson's face with some degree of curiosity as he
said this, but there was nothing to be remarked in
it but a look of sincerity that Jessie would have
liked to see, because it told that he spoke from
his heart.

I fear it is getting late, and that I am detaining
you," said Nelson, rising. " Remember, Anna,
we are very old friends, and that I am sufficiently
aged and sobered to be considered your and little
Anna's protector. You must look upon me as
such during the remainder of the voyage, and let
me save you all trouble and harass."

Anna thanked him, and, although she felt the
strangeness of their mutual positions, considering
the past, she did not hesitate frankly to accept his
offer ; and there was something in his manly tone
and bearing which, whilst it awed her, convinced
her that she might trust in him as in her brother.

CHAPTER XL.

Cease here longer to detain me,
Fondest mother, drown' d in woe ;
Now thy kind caresses pain me :
Morn advances  let me go.

See yon orient streak appearing !
Harbinger of endless day.
Hark ! a voice, the darkness cheering,
Calls my new-born soul away."  Cecil.

Poor Anna had great need of protection and
kindness during the remainder of that weary and
melancholy voyage, and well was it for her that
she had Nelson to help and comfort her. Little
Anna grew weaker and weaker every day, and the
I am so tired V' was repeated so often that it
became a painful reminder of the precarious state
of her health. She did not suffer any pain , but
seemed to be literally wasting away. She was a
perfect shadow, and was the object of pity, sorrow,
and affection of all the ships crew and passengers.
No one but Anna had a hope of her recovery : few
thought she would live to reach England. Fortunately

they had a favourable passage and consequently
the sick child was not much disturbed
by adverse winds or storms. As the ship glided
gently over the bosom of the deep so her young
spirit seemed to be quietly gliding away to eternity.
As she, grew weaker she became less restless,
and was quite happy to be laid upon the sofa in
the cabin, or upon a temporary bed on deck, when
strong enough, provided she had her mamma or
Nelson by her side. The Bible stories and the
kind narrator patience were inexhaustible. She
took more and more pleasure in listening to them,
and would generally fall asleep with her hand
clasped in her mother's whilst Nelson spoke or
read. He was so earnest himself in what he did,
and related so simply and clearly, that Anna became
also a gratified and benefited listener, and
wondered, as she looked at the shattered soldier,
what power had converted him into so gentle and
humble a Christian.

One day she took courage to ask him what had
made him so well acquainted with his Bible. He
opened its first leaf and showed it to her, " Nelson
Burford, from his loving fathers  was written
there, and underneath the words " Fight the good
fight of faith."

Anna," said Nelson solemnly, " I owe to my

father whom I grievously offended and to your
sister all my religious impressions. When I returned
to India last, it was with no very kindly
feelings. I seemed to owe a grudge to all the
world, and my only wish was to die in battle.
Forgive me for speaking plainly : it is best for us
both that you should understand me. I had a demon
within me. This mood lasted a long time, and
I did not care to struggle against it : I was morose
to my friends  a fiend to myself. One day I was ill,
and, wonderful for me, confined to my bed. It
was a Sunday. I always preserved too great a
regard for the day, and too vivid a recollection of
early habits, to read profane literature on that day,
therefore took up the Bible, a book, I am sorry to
say, that I had not for some time read much of.
I thought I would open it by chance, and see what
chapter or verse would best suit my mood. I
opened the title page, and read my father's favourite
text,  Fight the good fight of faith.' I
paused upon it, and suddenly the remembrance of
the day when he gave me the Bible flashed upon
me  the day of my first start for India, some
thirteen years before. I saw his kind face and
tearful eyes : I recalled every word that he then
uttered.  Read it, boy, and never be ashamed of
it. I have weathered many a storm, and been on

strange waters, but have always found that book
my surest compass Those were his exact words.
Suddenly the whole scene was before me. Present
and Jessie had come to see the last of me.
There was my father's rough, kind face, Pynsents
friendly eyes, and Jessie's sweet smile and sisterly
words. Brother and sister they had always been
to me, and he a father to all of us. From that
one day of sickness I date my return to my own
natural self, and, I hope, my restoration to something
like right reason. I have never ceased to
think of those three friends as they then appeared
to me. The intermediate years have seemed to
vanish, and I feel that I, a maimed and repaired
man, shall meet my father in hale middle
age, and those friends of my childhood still the
boy and girl I left them''

Anna looked with astonishment upon the man
she had always thought so unsentimental. There
was a pleasant dreaminess in his countenance that
made her fancy he was even then calling up those
early scenes. She wondered whether there were
any affection still left for herself, or whether she,
too, had returned in his imagination to the pert
child of ten, whom he used to spoil and lecture by
turns.

"And the Bible ?" asked little Anna, who had

been listening to the conversation with closed eyes,
as she often did. ' Did you love the pretty stories
as I love them now, and learn to tell them so
nicely?"

Yes, little Anna ; I learnt by degrees to love
and reverence what God has mercifully taught you
to love so young."

'sand how did Aunt Jessie help you to be
good?"

By being good herself, and so setting a good
example to every one else."

"And will you marry Aunt Jessie, Uncle? it
would be so nice !"

Nelson actually blushed, but there was no hesitation
in his answer.

"Your Aunt Jessie is too good for me, little
Anna. I am afraid I shall die an old, old, lonely
bachelor."

I should just like to see Aunt Jessie before I
go to heaven. Mamma. Do you think I shall?
The ship is so slow  so slow ! " .

My own darling, do not talk so ! " cried Anna,
bursting into tears, and taking her child in her
arms.

The ship is so slow  so slow !" Oh, how
often were these words repeated during that sad
and dreary voyage ! How often did the melancholy

mother pray for some sudden wind to waft
the vessel more swiftly on its course. It was
dreadful to watch the poor child becoming weaker
almost daily and to see nothing but vast ocean
stretching far, far away into the still vaster sky.
No trace of land anywhere : no hope of it for
fifteen, twenty, long, long days and nights.

When shall we get to England, Uncle ?' the
wistful child would ask. " If I go to heaven before
the ship gets there, what will they do with
me ? DonH let them put me into the sea : let
them take me to Fairfield. I don't think I could
get to heaven out of the deep, deep sea."

Oh, my God, if thou wilt graciously permit
us to reach home first V' became also the one
prayer of the mother. " I should die, I am sure
I should die, if my child were to be committed to
those roaring waves. Oh ! I am punished enough
for all my folly, in the death of all who are dearest
to me : add not this to my cup, oh, gracious
Lord!"

From the cabin to the deck, from the deck to
the cabin, all day and night long, roamed Anna,
like one bewildered, in the vain hope of seeing land.
Truly she found no rest for the soles of her feet.
Both crew and passengers wondered and pitied ;
but such were Anna's manners and appearance,

that no one dared to express to her their feelings
for her. Haughty and impetuous stilly with flashing
eyes and prouder step than of old, her grief
seemed to awe rather than command instant sympathy.
Nelson alone could soothe and comfort.
She turned to him for support, as to a father or a
husband.

And he, too, was always uttering the same
prayer, but in calmer words. " Mercifully grant
that she die not upon the pathless waters, were
the words of his heart almost all day long.

The poor black nurse could do little but cry,
and her tears and ejaculations said the same thing
' Not here, O Lord, not here V

The kind surgeon could give little hope of the
child's lasting long. " She was too weak, he
said, " too far gone when she set out for England.
She might go off in a moment in her sleep. 

Anna had counted the hours of those last ten
days. Two hundred and forty hours ! Almost
every hour that passed was struck off like a schoolboys
s holiday-calendar.

Can you see the land yet. Mamma'' would
be again and again the child's anxious question,
until Nelson entreated her to ask him instead of
her mother, because it gave her such pain.

Never did shipwrecked mariners look for land
more ardently than did those four watchers.

Then came the first adverse wind: within five
days' sail of England, and as good as a day lost by
contrary winds. Although the captain declared
that he had never before had so prosperous a
voyage, and although, on her passage to India,
Anna herself had been becalmed for two or three
days, she thought that God had forsaken her, and
was deaf to her prayers, on account of that one
short delay.

It was in vain that Nelson said, " Anna, we are
all in the power of One who ' holdeth the waters
in the hollow of his hands,' and can, if He will,
engulf us all at one sudden blast."

' Better, far better, to die so, than for her to
die here, and leave me without her'' was Anna's
reply.

Nelson wondered how the one sorrow could, apparently,
swallow up the other. She seemed to
have forgotten the loss of her husband, in the approaching
departure of that beloved child.

My brother Chatham will be so glad to see you
Mammy dear," said little Anna, with that desire
to comfort that even children of keen affections
possess ; " if I am gone to heaven, he will be at
Fairfield."

He does not know me  he will not love me ;
what is all the world, to you, my own darling ?"

You love me very much, Mamma and I love
you dearly, dearly,  but God loves us best of all'

Anna could only cover her child's face with tears,
and turn away to moan and weep. They used to
carry little Anna upon deck, when the surgeon
thought her strong enough to bear it; and when
there, she would ask, faintly, to be turned towards
Fairfield ; she would then fix her large, unearthly
eyes upon the point indicated to her, and would
scarcely remove them until she was obliged to return
to the cabin.

Uncle Pynsent will see us first," she said to
Nelson j " will he come to meet us V

*' I have no doubt he will if he can, my love."

Will you ask him to let me go to Fairfield ?
I mean, if I do not go to heaven first,  you know
what I mean."

I will do what you wish, little Anna, but we
must not talk to Mamma of these things : you
know God will do what is best for you."

Yes. Do you remember how Christ raised the
widow's son, and that rich man's little girl ? Perhaps
he will make me well ; but I should as soon
go to my little brothers, if Mamma would let me,
and if I could only see Fairfield first."

It was strange how the idea of Fairfield and her
Aunt Jessie haunted the child.

Anna too, was always talking of Jessie. How
is it, that when deep sorrow falls upon us, we always
turn to the gentle and true-hearted for comfort
and support, however much we may have neglected
them in joy ? Not that Anna had ever, by
thought, word, or deed, neglected Jessie ; she loved
her always, but she knew she had been guilty of a
grievous wrong towards her : her only desire was
to repair it.

"If I had but Jessie with me," she would say to
Nelson, " I do not think I should be so very, very
wretched."

Jessie is always a consoler," Nelson said, with
that smile which he only wore when her name was
mentioned ; " but there is One, Anna, who will do
more for us than any earthly friend."

I try. Nelson, I try ; but I have been so wilful,
so foolish all my life, that 1 cannot go to Him
as Jessie would; He is punishing me now for a
thousand errors that only He and my own heart
are conscious of. If you only knew how I have
irritated and vexed the kindest and best of husbands
by mere vanity, you would despise me : yes,
I am punished deservedly."

Whom the Lord loveth. He chastened, Anna ;
God is only bringing you to Him by that surest
path, affliction."

Anna had said rightly that she had frequently
vexed and annoyed her husband, almost beyond endurance.
Her beauty and various charms had
drawn around her a crowd of admirers and worshipers
in India, and such was her innate love ot
admiration, that she had not been able to resist
them as she should. Flattered and caressed, she
had too often forgotten her husband in the society
of others ; and, although never unmindful of propriety
and mere outward decorum, had allowed
her mind to rejoice in her many conquests, rather
as an unmarried flirt, than as a prudent married
woman. Chatham never for a moment ceased to
love her, and her folly had pained him severely.
When he seriously represented her conduct to
her, she would laugh, put her arms round his
neck, and, in her old coaxing way, kiss him into
good-humour and forgiveness. Still he felt her
neglect, and could scarcely believe in her real affection
for him. It was not until they parted that
they were fully aware how dear they were to each
other; and it was then that Anna, with the
really generous openness of her character, entreated
forgiveness for all her levity, assured him
that there was no one in the wide world that
she loved as she did him, and confessed to him
that vanity was her one besetting sin, and had

VOL. It. X

been ever the great stumbling-block in her path
of duty.

But this last, tardy confession was but a small
consolation to her, when she reflected that the generous,
brave, and unselfish lover and husband was
now no more ; and that she had been but an ungrateful
and vain wife, at least, in return for all his
devotion and constancy. Where should she find
another Chatham ?  one who had married her in
spite of the opposition of friends  in spite of her
many known faults  in spite of her position and
circumstances ? Oh ! remorse of conscience, and
agony for his loss, were sufficient punishments for
her ill-conduct to Nelson, she thought, without the
addition of the sufferings of her child, and the
hourly prospect of her death.

Through all these conflicting feelings,  misery
without consolation  remorse without the chance
of proving her repentance  thoughts of the past
without hope of the future  such grief as mothers
alone can know for the treasure about to be removed
 and a fear of the anger of the Almighty
upon one who had been brought up in His ways,
and who felt she had strayed so far from them, 
Annans voyage at last drew to a close.

It was a fine September afternoon, verging upon
the evening, when our friends were, as usual, upon

deck, straining their eyes towards the point where
England was sure to be. The child seemed to have
slightly amended, and her mother began to express
hopes that, if she could but reach Fairfield alive,
she might be spared to her. Nelson dared not to
encourage such hopes, but strove to turn her mind
towards the necessity of resignation to the dispensations
of a higher Power.

How beautiful the sun is, Mamma V said little
Anna as she gazed upon the sky ; " it looks as if
it was walking down into the sea. What are they
doing at Fairfield now ?"

Probably gathering in the harvest, my love."

Nelson and Anna were side by side, and the remembrance
of old harvest-homes at Fairfield suddenly
shot through them both, and therewith a
vision of Jessie, the presiding spirit. Nelson
seemed to long to pierce through that glorious red
heaven, to the Fairfield beyond it, as did the child,
who expressed his thought.

 If I were in the sun, I would not go down into
the sea, but I would stop at Fairfield. Ah ! what
is that. Mamma ? I see something coming between
the sun and the sea,  far, far away. Is that Fairfield
?"

Land ! land !" shouted a joyful voice from some
other point of the ship.

I 3

I have seen Fairfield said little Anna, whilst
a sudden glow overspread her face ; but the excitement
was too much for her, and she was obliged to
be taken down to the cabin.

All that night, whilst the gallant ship was 
rapid progress athwart the dark waters towards
that " Land of Promises the well-beloved England,
the child was, to all appearance, passing away. She
did not speak, but lay, as in a soft sleep, scarcely
breathing. Oh ! who shall tell the prayers of that
agonized mother ? Should her child die within sight
of land  within a few hours' sail of her brother's
home !

No ; those prayers were heard. Even whilst she
knelt by her child's couch, and seemed to await
her last breath, Nelson, who had been pacing, half
the weary night through, upon deck, came to tell
her that they were sailing on the Thames, and would
soon be in the docks.

'' Thank God !" was all she said, as she burst
into a flood of tears.

The child was aroused, and understood that all
was right.

Don't cry, Mamma, we are come to Fairfield,"
she murmured.

They wrapped her in shawls and cloaks, and
carried her upon deck. Way was instantly made

for this precious burden that crew and passengers
had so long contemplated with pity, and Nelson
was amongst the first to touch land, followed closely
by Anna and the nurse bearing the child.

He looked round in search of Pynsent. Whose
was the anxious face that suddenly met his from
amongst the crowd ? A lady standing by a gentleman.


There she is V said the gentleman ; but the
lady still looked at Nelson.

"Nelson'

Jessie ! " were soon the exclamations of the
pair, succeeded by " Here you are, Anna ! "
Pynsent ! I am so thankful !" from the brother
and sister.

Jessie and Anna were once more in each other's
arms, but only for a moment.

"Take her, Jessie, she is dying!" were Annans
first words, as she took little Anna from the nurse
and laid her slight form in Jessie's arms. " It is
Aunt Jessie, darling," she added to the child.

"Oh, my Aunt!" said the little one, as she
made an efibrt to put her arms round her neck ;
'' then we are come to Fairfield."

She scarcely opened her eyes, but was in a
dreamy state of half-unconsciousness.

Pynsent had a carriage waiting as near as possible

into which he put Anna Jessie, and the
nurse and child, and ordered them at once to
Duke-street. Jessie and Nelson had not even
shaken hands ; all thought was for the child.

Little Anna was soon laid in the comfortable
bed prepared for her and her mother. It was in
vain for Jessie to entreat her sister to take off her
travelling-dress, and make herself comfortable : as
long as the little girl was talking incoherently of
being at Fairfield, she could not be prevailed upon
to quit her bedside.

''Is this Aunt Jessie' asked the child, as
Jessie bent over her to arrange her pillows :  may
I see the pigeons ? where is my brother ?

'You must try to sleep first, darling," whispered
Aunt Jessie, kissing the wasted cheek ; " you
cannot see anything until you have slept."

Will you stay here, and Mamma, and Uncle ?
Uncle Nelson, I mean ?"

We will all be with you, my love, only try to
sleep."

I will  kiss me first ; and Mamma  kiss me
first, and I will say Uncle Nelson's prayer. ' O
Lord, take care of thy little child, and make me
fit for heaven, for Christ's sake.' Now will you
say ' Our Father' ?"

Little Anna put her hands together, and as Jessie

knelt down, and said the Lords Prayer, her lips
moved.

Good night, Mammy dear. Good night, Aunt
Jessie'* And in a few minutes the poor exhausted
child was asleep.

As usual, a nurse ! Why was there always sickness
where Jessie was ? Seated by the slumbering
child whilst her sister went to lie down on the
sofa in the next room, Jessie had time to think
over the last few bewildering hours. Anna had
returned, a widow, and with a dying child, accompanied
by Nelson, and evidently guarded tenderly
by him ; Nelson bereft of his right arm, and looking
as if he had suffered much. What did it all
mean ? or was it a dream ? Anna, too ! So
changed ! Such a wreck of her former self! She
could scarcely believe it was her beautiful sister ;
such sad tales had that miserable voyage, and the
loss of her hair, told on her personal appearance.
About midnight Jessie was aroused from her painful
meditations by the wandering words of little
Anna. She seemed to be either dreaming, or pursuing
the train of thought begun in a dream.

What pretty flowers ! let me see the harvest-home.
Mamma. Aunt Jessie, may I feed the
pigeons ? Where are all the rest ? I want to see
little brother, and Uncle Pynsent."

Jessie, perceiving that she was awake, rang the
bell for her brother, and went still nearer to her.
She put out her hand.

Fairfield is very pretty ; it must be like heaven's


Here Pynsent came.

Here is Uncle Pynsent, my love," said Jessie.

The child smiled. Pynsent felt her pulse, and
looked steadfastly into her eyes.

You had better call Anna," he said ; " she is
sinking. I will get her something to take, but
this cannot last."

"Where is Uncle Nelson?" asked the sufferer.

I will bring him," replied Pynsent gently.

He went into the drawing-room, where Anna
was asleep on the sofa.

Anna," he said, gently awaking her, " I am
afraid your little one is worse. She has just
awoke, and perhaps you had better go to her. It
seems a great mercy that she should be permitted
to come here, does it not, my dear sister ? "

I know  I know what you mean ! " shrieked
Anna ; " she is dying  she cannot be saved ! "

'' Hush, Anna ! All depends on her being kept
quiet, and having no excitement."

Anna threw herself for a moment on her brother's
neck.

Oh P-ynsent, pity me ! I am so wretched 
so wretched ! Lonely, lonely, heart-broken \''

Pynsent embraced her tenderly.

My own Anna, my dear sister," he said lovingly,
"remember you have brothers and a sister
and a beautiful child still left you. For all our
sakes try to compose yourself."

"Mamma, my own Mamma!" was heard
through the folding doors.

Little Anna had heard her mother weep. Anna
went to her, and Pynsent went downstairs, whence
he returned with a soothing-draught, and accompanied
by Nelson.

Jessie had been giving little Anna food, and was
seated on the bed, supporting her in her arms.

Anna was kneeling on the other side.

Uncle," said the child to Nelson, " I have
got Aunt Jessie, and I shall go to heaven from Fairfield.
Will you tell me about the little children
and Jesus Christ?"

Nelson went to the head of the bed, opposite
Jessie; and bending over the child, said slowly,
Suffer little children to come unto me, for of
such is the kingdom of heaven."

Mamma, may I go to Jesus Christ ?" said little
Anna to her mother, whose hand she held, and

I 3

who in reply could only bury her face in the bedclothes
to check her sobs.

Nelson went on gently whispering to the child
of the love of Christ for His children, His tender
lambs ; and she, with a quiet smile, leant back on
Jessicass shoulder, and fell asleep. Was it sleep or
death? They could not tell. Nelson helped to
support her; and thus, between Jessie and him,
Anna's child went away from this world, and was
borne by angels to Him who " gathered the lambs
in His arms.'

CHAPTER XLI.

How still and peaceful is the grave,
Where, life's vain tumults past.
The appointed house, by Heaven's decree,
Receives us all at last !

The wicked there from troubling cease,
Their passions rage no more ;
And there the weary pilgrim rests
From all the toils he bore,"  Logan.

Mr. Michelson has returned once more to the
Hall. He is again pacing the large dining-room,
and looks morose and unhappy. A report has
reached him that his son is dead, and that his
widow has arrived at Fairfield, accompanying the
remains of her little child, his grandchild. The
Indian mail containing the official account of the
battle that Anna and Nelson had heard named so
unfortunately, is not due for a week, and he must
remain in a state of suspense during that period.
Suspense it may scarcely be called, as the intelligence
of the death of his son, as received by him,
was positive : still he awaits the mail with a kind
of anxious dread.

Did Mr. Michelson care for his son ? It is a
difficult question to answer. He certainly cared
little for him when living ; but now that he is dead
he would give much to recall him to life. Age, as
it will do , in spite of our best efforts, is creeping
on Mr. Michelson. There are wrinkles around
his eyes and mouth ; his hair is grey, his gait less
erect. Since that sudden attack in the Royal Academy,
he has a less assured step ; and as he walks
impatiently up and down the room, a nervous halt
is perceptible. Worse than all this, he is alone in
the world. Ah ! there is the secret of his uneasiness.
Selfishness is at the root. He knows that the friends
who have flattered him, the arts that he has patronized,
the paintings and statues he has collected, the
property he is master of, will stand him in small
stead when the paralysis that is haunting him like
a spectre, shall come upon him, and perhaps chain
him to one spot, a helpless being for the remainder
of his life. He feels a pain and tension in one
sinew of his right side, that makes him stamp on
the floor with impotent anger as he moves to
and fro. He knows that he parted from his only
son in wrath  that he never did his duty by him 
that he was jealous of him, and glad of any excuse
to renounce him ; and now that it is too late, he
wishes that he had treated him more kindly, so

as to have the remembrance at least of having seen
him last in peace. When death has separated two
people for ever it is a miserable reflection to the
survivor that their last words were uttered in anger,
and that those words can neither be atoned for nor
recalled. Mr. Michelson begins to think of the excellence
of the Christian precept, " Love all menas
brethren," and to feel that if it were acted upon
in this life, there would not be so many heavy burdens
of remorse to weigh down the soul in her
passage to the next. He suddenly glances up, and
sees that he is facing the picture of a tall, pale
lady : it is the portrait of his wife. The melancholy
face looks reproachfully at him, and seems
to say,  You have killed me, and ruined my child."
He cannot bear that mute rebuke, so he walks into
the hall impatiently, and thence into the drawing-room.
There have been hung, in conspicuous positions,
the pictures he last purchased, ' Sedgemoor
after the fights and ' Lear and Cordeha.
The first object he sees is the pale and sweet Cordelia
bending over the kneeling father. Oh that
face, which haunts him in his dreams ! He turns
from it, and sees the young child on the battlefield,
kneeling by her dead parent. Everywhere
filial tenderness ! How did he ever strive to gain
the affection of his child, so as to demand a return

of love for love ? Whose love had he ever won ?
Yes, there was one who had loved him : where
was she ? Again he turns with an air of terror to
the Cordelia. It seems that the second look is
even more trying than the first, for he puts his
hand on his forehead, and hurries out of the room.
His house has become haunted ; he has not been
here a week, and he cannot remain.

He walks into the shrubbery, and there falls on
his ear the heavy toll of the death-bell from the
little church : it has been sounding sadly all the
morning, at regular intervals of a minute, but he
has been hitherto so wrapt in his own reflections
that he has not heard it. At the end of the path
in which he is now walking there is a small iron
gate between the shrubbery and churchyard. He
pursues his way towards it, thoughtlessly, the heavy
knell sounding forth again as he reaches it. He
pauses, and looks into the churchyard. The venerable
church seems to reproach him for time misspent
; the toll of the bell sinks into his heart like
lead : yet the scene is cheerful. The bright autumn
sun is drawing the few remaining dewdrops
from the quiet graves, and glancing through the
thick yew-trees ; beyond, the wood is turning red
and yellow in its change from youth to age, and
the sun is sporting on its mellow face. There are

human objects of interest, also, in the graveyard :
young children, seated upon the waU, and lounging
on the gate, looking towards the road without, as
if in expectation of something ; the sexton, with
a grave face, spade in hand; the clerk, suddenly
emerging from the porch, reconnoitring, and again
disappearing within the church. Mr. Michelsons
glance follows the sexton, as he walks towards the
weeping willow that falls over the tomb of many
generations of Burtonss. He sees that the iron
railings and the vault are both opened, and he remembers
that the remains of his little grandchild
have been brought to Fairfield, and are, probably,
about to be interred. Suddenly there is a
movement amongst the children ; the clerk appears
and disappears, and immediately the clergyman, in
his white surplice, walks towards the churchyard-gate.
Mr. Michelson feels impelled to remain, he
knows not why. He buries himself amongst the
shrubs, almost close to the open vault, where he
can see without being seen, and, unknown to all,
attends his grandchild funeral. He almost fancies
that it must be his son's, his heart beats so
convulsively, and his knees tremble so much. The
sound of many wheels, slow and heavy, is heard
coming up the road. He cannot see the carriages,
but in a few minutes he sees, above the ,

six bunches of nodding white plumes,
surmounting the black top of a hearse. Anon the
hearse disappears, and a mourning-coach replaces
it, then two carriages ; the rest does not come near
enough to be visible to him,

"I am the resurrection and the life's strikes
upon his ear, as the priest turns and walks slowly
up the path to the village church. Is it a funeral
or a bridal that follows him? Six young girls,
dressed in white, with white silk hoods and scarfs,
bearing some silken and glistening thing between
them, move up the path. Surely, the grandsire's
heart whispers, death never looked like that !
There can be no black coffin under so white a
pall ! Look again, old man, and you will see. A
tall lady, in the deepest of weeds, leaning on a
gentleman, who can scarcely support her : that
heart whispers again, the mother and her brother.
Another lady and a little boy. Oh ! the tell-tale
heart : it recognizes for the first time a grandson
in the child who walks, with a timid step, by the
side of his aunt ; the next sombre pair it does not
know,  the artist and his young wife ; then those
two brothers, whose presence is a mute reproach,
men of his own age, who have followed their
grandsire, his grandchild, to her early grave,
whilst he is hiding, like a culprit, and watching.

Uncle Timothy leans on his brother and both
grieve more for the living mother than for her
child in heaven. Another painful throb: oh,
heart, feeling at last ! Captain Burford leans on
the arm of his son, whom he has been allowed to
welcome back from that Indian warfare, in love
and honour; whilst his only child, fallen in the
same strife, knew that his parent would shed no
tears over his fate. Even the tears of the black
nurse, and the grave, sorrowful air of her fellow-servant,
reprove the worldly man, who was never
known to weep for dead or living. The very servants
and labourers that close the sad procession
wear decent mourning clothes and melancholy
faces ; whilst he, the father and grandfather, does
not mingle amongst the mourners, who are about
to commit a Michelson to the tomb of the Bur-tons.


The little coffin, its bearers, and attendant
mourners, are now in the church, where the priest
is reading the solemn and beautiful Burial-service.
Mr. Michelson is still rooted amongst those evergreens,
as if he could not move from the spot :
once or twice he makes an effort to go away, but
some power, stronger than himself, restrains him.
Oh ! what a world of thoughts rush through his
mind during the short space that elapses before

the funeral train again issues from the church !
The conscience of the strong, bad man is awakened,
and, like Adam in Paradise, he knows not
where to flee to hide from the anger that he knows
he has deserved.

Again the six white figures appear, bearing the
gleaming pall ; again the dark procession is formed
behind. As they approach the grave, the strong
heart beats more and more : the words of the man
of God thrill through it.  In the midst of life weare
in death : of whom may we seek for succour but
of Thee, O Lord, who for our sins art justly 
Why cannot the heart abase itself,
and utter those words humbly ?

Oh ! the smothered sob that bursts from the
mother, as she leans over the vault as her child is
lowered into it; deeper and deeper, audible and
more audible, as the falling earth echoes upon the
coffin. Parted now, for ever in this world ! Mr.
Michelson cannot bear it ; he covers his face with
his hands, and they are moistened  with what ? can
it be a tear ? God grant it ! for is not a tear the
first oblation of the penitent ?

Every word of the concluding portion of the Service
sinks into that awakened heart with power.
The hope of resurrection,  the joy of those who
die in the Lord,  the prayers for the conversion of

the living,  the belief in Christ the Saviour, and
the concluding blessing,  all make an impression
that has never before been made. He finds himself
repeating the words of the priest, and joining
aloud in the last " Amen'' when a shriek suppressed
till now, breaks on his ear, and he sees
Anna fall, insensible, into the arms of her brother.
There is an immediate movement amongst
the mourners, who surround the unhappy mother.
Pynsent's face is ashy pale, as he motions them
away, and whispers to his uncle. Mr. Michelson
thinks there must be something worse than a mere
fainting fit, as the clergyman and clerk look equally
alarmed, and all appear to be horrified, and for the
moment stunned, by the occurrence. White handkerchiefs,
already saturated with tears, are presented
to Pynsent, and in a few seconds Mr.
Michelson sees one covered with blood, and hears
the words, " It would be death to take her home''
It is the impulse of the moment ; for once a
heaven-inspired one, where delay or thought might
be ruin;  Mr. Michelson is in the midst of the
terrified group.

4.

 Follow me, follow me ! Come to my house :
bring her to the Hall," he exclaims, in a manner
so authoritative that not even Pynsent resists.

Impelled by the movement and action, they all
follow Mr. Michelson instinctively, as he assists

Pynsent in supporting Anna and leads the way
through the shrubbery. Mr. Michelson looks upon
the face of her whom he had last seen in all the
brightness of youth and beauty, in the very house
to which he is now bearing her. This is her second
visit to her husband s natural home. Pale, bleeding,
lifeless, in the weeds of widowhood, he beholds
her now.

What is it ? ' he asks of Pynsent in a hollow
voice.

She has burst a bloodless. She would attend
her child's funeral, and this is the consequence
of the violent outburst of long controlled
agony."

They reach the door ; Mr. Michelson rings violently.


Send the housekeeper to my room, and show
the rest to the drawing-rooms'' he says, as a servant
appears.

Upstairs, at once, I suppose?" he asks of Present.


Thank you, it will be best."

They carry their lifeless burden up the broad
staircase to the corridor.

My room is the only one ready," says Mr.
Michelson.

They take her to a magnificent apartment, and
lay her on the bed. Uncle Timothy, slightly aided

by Tiny and Jessie, enters after them. The housekeeper
appears.

See that everything is done, instantly, for the
relief of this lady, says Mr. Michelson. " Miss
Barton, yon will consider this house entirely at
the service of your sister and her friendship he adds,
addressing Jessie, whom he recognizes now that
her veil is withdrawn.

Tears gush from Jessiess eyes ; she cannot speak,
but she holds out her hand in token of gratitude.
Mr. Michelson takes it, and for the first time there
is sympathy between those two most adverse natures,
thanks to the power of human kindness.

Mr. Michelson is about to leave the room, and
glances once more at the bed. Whom does he see
holding a handkerchief to the lips of Anna ? The
original of his Cordelia? The fair, sad face that
has haunted him day and night ? Tinys bonnet
is thrown off, and, as she leans over Anna, her attitude
and expression are those of the picture.
Mr. Michelson staggers out of the room, and a
sudden giddiness comes over him ; he holds by the
bannisters, and happily recovers himself.

Half-way up the stairs stands, in uncertainty,
a child; he sees Mr. Michelson, and with a
bold, straightforward air advances towards him.
Grandfather and grandchild face each other for
the first time in their lives.

How is my Mamma ? and where is Aunt Jessie
? asks the boy quickly.

Come here , and I will tell jour' replies Mr.
Michelson opening the door of a dressing-room.
Pale and exhausted he sits down to recover himself.


You said you would tell me how my Mamma
is ; and where my Aunt Jessie is' repeated the
child, standing in the doorway.

Your Mamma is very ill, and your Aunt is
with her."

Will it make Aunty sick to see Mamma bleeding
so?" asked the child, turning pale.

No, certainly not. Come here. Sir ; what is
your name?"

I shan't tell you  I don't like you."

Why do you not like me ?"

Because you don't like my Papa and Mamma,
and turned them out of your house."

Who told you that. Sir?" Mr. Michelson's
pale face grew crimson.

*' Dinah said so, and old Will : and they said I
ought to have Michelson Hall some day, if I had
my due." The handsome black eyes of the boy
seemed to flash through the old man.

Did any one else  did your uncles or aunts
tell you the same ?"

''No; but I heard Aunt Betsey tell Uncle
James once that it was a shame you did nothing
for me. But I done want any one to do for me.
Aunt Jessie is my real Mamma and Papa both;
Captain Burford says so  only now my other
Mamma is come from India, and I love her too.

How did you know me ? When did you seeme?"


I never saw you before, but I heard them call
you Mr. Michelson just now, and you are my
grandfather."

And you cannot like your grandfather ?" Mr.
Michelson's voice trembled ; the boy perceived it,
and grew less bold.

I don't know  I done like any one who hates
my Papa and Mamma, and Aunt Jessie."

But supposing I did not hate them ?"

Will you promise not to hurt my Mamma and
Aunt Jessie, or turn them out of your house ?"

Yes ; they are going to stay here until your
Mamma is better."

But my poor Papa, that they say is dead over
in India  you hate him. Do you know Aunt
Jessie says that the Bible tells us not to hate anyone,
not even our enemies ?"

'' But you hate me. Sir."

"No, I don't hate you ; but I don't like you.

If you will try to love my Papa , I will try to love
you. I should like to go and fight all those Indians,
and kill them, for killing my Papa. Will
you love my Papa ?"

Would to God I had loved him when he was
able to return my love !"

Mr. Michelson groaned aloud, and covered his
face with his hands.

The boy left his post in the doorway, and went
towards him. He looked at him for a few moments,
then gently touching his hands, said 

Don't cry, please don't. If you are sorry.
Aunt Jessie says  really sorry  God will forgive
you. And I will love you, because you don't hate
my Papa and Mamma any longer. And perhaps
my Papa may come back. Colonel Burford says
that it is not certain that the Indians killed him :
I heard him say so. Do you know. Colonel Burford
has only one arm ? And he has the sleeve of
his coat buttoned up, just like the picture of Lord
Nelson, and it looks so funny !"

This transition, from his sons death to Colonel
Burford's one arm, made Mr. Michelson smile.
He looked at the boy : he was very like Chatham ;
the same fine, open face, and attractive manner.

"Then you will try not to hate your grandfathers'


Mr. Michelson put out his hand. The boy still
hesitated.

'' You did not say you would love my Papa and
Mamma. You only said you wished you had loved
them."

I will try, little boy, I will try."

Then I will try to love you."

The child put his hand into his grandfathers,
who drew him towards him, put his other hand on
his head, and let fall a genuine tear.

Now I will tell you what my name is," said
the child, with a sudden start; "it is Pynsent
Chatham Michelson ; but they call me Chatham,
because it was my Papa's name."

Will you come and live with me ?"

No, I cannot go away from Aunt Jessie ; but
I will come and see you, if she will let me."

The door of the room was suddenly opened, and
a servant appeared.

I beg your pardon. Sir," he said, " but we do
not know whether we are to prepare luncheon ; and
James wants to know what horse he is to ride."

Of course you will prepare luncheon, and let
James ride the fastest horse. Are you a set of
fools, that you can do nothing without directions
?"

Mr. Michelson was recalled to his positicii as

VOL. III. K

master of the house,, and, taking little Chatham by
the hand, went downstairs. He saw the different
carriages waiting at the door. The mourning
coach had been sent away. All the house was in
confusion. Servants were bustling about, and the
groom was just starting for medicine. Captain
Burford and Uncle James were impatiently pacing
the hall, waiting for intelligence. Nelson and
Charles were in the drawing-room. Captain Burford
touched Uncle James, as he saw Mr. Michelson
coming downstairs, leading Chatham. " Wonders
will never ceases he muttered.

"This is very good of you, Michelson, said
Captain Burford, as he shook Mr. Michelson's
hand with all his heart. " Confound it ! if it had
only been under more happy circumstances, this is
just as it should be. That poor girl was half dead
before she started ; but, hang it ! she has the old
spirit in her still, and she would follow her child,
say what we would. Of course this brought the
other women, who are all better out of the way at
such a time."

"We were waiting to thank you, Mr. Michelson,"
said Uncle James in a trembling voice, " before
we took our leave."

"Do not think of going until we hear she is
better," said Mr. Michelson.

My wife will be uneasy said Uncle James.

Oh ! Aunt Betsey will survive it/ growled the
Captain ; " besides , she has Mrs. Colville and Mrs.
Egerton with her. I told old Will to go and tell
them what had happened."

Mr. Michelson rang the door-bell.

Put up the horses for the present," he said to
the servant ; and the carriages drove off.

Pynsent appeared from upstairs, looking very
pale.

''Is the man gone?" he asked. 'We can do
nothing until the remedies come."

He came downstairs, and found himself opposite
Mr. Michelson. Each had a decided natural
antipathy for the other : neither knew what to
say.

"I am much obliged to you," began Pynsent
in measured terms, " for your kindness. I scarcely
know when my sister may be able to remove with
safety : she is very dangerously ill. Still, we
cannot trespass  "

"I beg, Sir, you will not name the subject,"
interrupted Mr. Michelson majestically. " I have
to thank you, also, for a favour done me when I
was taken ill in the Royal Academy : perhaps you
will allow me to return it in kind."

There ! there ! " broke in Captain Burford.

K 2

"Let bygones be bygones; shake hands and befriends."


The worthy Captains well-meant interference
only increased the stiffness, and he walked into
the drawing-room, muttering "Pshaw!" and shortly
after consoling himself with his favourite aphorism,
 'Twill be all the same a hundred years hence I
suppose."

Nelson and Charles appeared.

How is Anna ?  how is she ? " they asked simultaneously.


She is very ill. She is recovering consciousness,
but the bleeding continues : we are afraid it
will prove from the lungs."

"I beg. Sir," said Mr. Michelson, "that you
will consider this house as the home of  of  my 
my son's wife," making an effort to speak calmly.
As such, there can be no objection to her remaining."


Thank you, Sir," said Pynsent frankly ; " now
I can gladly offer the right hand of fellowship, if
you will allow me, and accept willingly of all your
hospitality."

He waited for Mr. Michelson to make the advance,
but still the right hands did not join.

Won't you shake hands with my Uncle Vjn~
sent ?" here interrupted little Chatham ; " then I

won't love you any more;" and he immediately
walked over to his uncle.

Every one smiled involuntarily at the air of
pride and importance assumed by the boy ; still it
had its effect. Mr. Michelson held out his haled,
and the heads of the adverse houses of Michelson
and Burton were, to all appearance, reconciled.

Pynsent returned at once to Anna. The rest,
full of anxiety, went into the drawing-room. Conversation
flagged : in spite of the attempt at cordiality,
the ice was not thawed. It takes almost
as long to melt two masses of human pride as two
of the northern icebergs. Uncle James moreover
was still slightly jealous ; and a dreadful vision of
Mr. Michelson, the enslaver, making himself agreeable
to Aunt Betsey, the enslaved, came between
him and friendship.

At last Mr. Michelson and Charles got into a
genuine discussion on painting. They were not
unfeeling, but people must talk of something when
even life is at stake ; and Mr. Michelsons feelings
not being so deeply interested in Anna as to preclude
his thinking of other matters, he introduced
the subject most agreeable to himself and dearest to
Charles. They had gone through much of the Art
gossip of the year before Mr. Michelson ventured
to introduce the point he had been aiming at from
the first.

It was strange that I should have purchased
your pictures without knowing that the artist was
a near neighbour until afterwards' he began.

Charles bowed.

' I confess I was first taken by the female figures
in each picture. It is universally acknowledged by
rivals and amateurs that your Cordelia is the finest
impersonation of Shakspeare's idea ever painted'

It is a portrait' said Charles, colouring with
pleasure, " and owes whatever merit it may have
to the original."

May I ask who the original was ? " asked Mr.
Michelson.

She is my wife' said Charles proudly, ' and
herself painted the head of King Lear."

She must be a wonderful creature' said Mr.
Michelson, feeling that here he could probe no
further. " And the child ? " pointing to the picture
of the Battle ; " I seem to recognize her. Is
that also a portrait?"

' You may remember a little girl you once saw
at Fairfield, and afterwards picked up on the ice in
the moor, many years ago. It was taken at that
period, and your memory probably recalled the
face."

"And the child and woman  are they identical?"


Yes ; I used to delight in sketching Tiny when
a child , and reproduced my early ideal in my first
exhibited pictures

' There is some one I have seen so like that pictures'


My sister always says that Tiny is like a lady
who once lived with you. I think her name was
Rutherford'

Ah ! yes ! perhaps so'' Again that fearful
pang at Mr. Michelson's heart , and the accompanying
threat of paralysis.

Charles saw his countenance change.

I fear you are not well' he said kindly; "allow
me to assist you."

Mr. Michelson rose with difficulty, but the spasm
passed away. The interruption changed the conversation,
and Mr. Michelson proposed luncheon,,
to which they all adjourned, more by way of something
to do than of satisfying appetites, which were
truly anything but craving.

CHAPTER XLII.

Gro, let me weep ! there's bliss in tears,

When he who sheds them only feels
Some hungering stain of early years

Effaced by every drop that steals.
The fruitless showers of worldly woe

Fall dark to earth, and never rise ;
While tears that from repentance flow

In bright excitement reach the skies."  Moore.

It is now time to take a look at Anna. The
climax of her fate seems to have arrived and a
very slender thread holds the frail fabric of her life
together ; she has recovered consciousness but is
too weak to speak : her face is so pale, and her
features are so suddenly contracted, that you would
not know her. If she opens her eyes, it is to
glance round her inquiringly, as if to ask where
she is, and what has happened. Jessie tells her
gently that she must be quiet, and that she is with
friends, and she closes again the large black eyes.
Uncle Timothy sits motionless by her side, his hand
on her pulse, and his face expressive of deep anxiety
and alarm. Pynsent prepares and administers the

remedies he and his uncle have agreed upon; and
poor Tiny sits at the head of the bed, to be useful
when she can, and to pray that her dear sister maybe
spared. The bleeding has stopped for awhile,
and a dead stillness is in the room. The beautiful
Anna,  the admired, the flattered, the vain, the
proud,  is indeed brought low. A few short weeks
ago she was praying that her own dear child might
be given to her from the brink of the grave, and
weeping for her husband ; now they are praying
and weeping for her. What will be the result of
this effusion of her life's blood, God only knows ;
but there is nothing so dreadful to witness, in all
the dreadful diseases to which human nature is
subject, as this slow flowing and ebbing forth, so
to say, of life itself. Jessie has seen much of illness,
in every form, but this appears to her the worst of
all that she has ever witnessed. Great as is her
self-command, she can scarcely prevent the tears
and sobs from bursting forth.

But we will not linger over the horrors of such
a sight. Before night the bleeding had ceased 
at least the alarming part of it  and it only remained
to discover whence it proceeded, and what
was the amount of danger. The pulse was becoming
rather more regular, and the face less
death-like : there was no longer cause for immedi-

K 3

ate alarm : she was not dying. This was all that
either uncle or nephew could venture to say to the
anxious friends who were awaiting their fiat.

It was necessary to come to some decision as to
who should remain at the Hall, and who should
leave. Pynsent resolved upon sitting up the whole
night to watch the symptoms. He was to have
returned to London the following day, but he could
not desert his sister in her hour of trouble. Anna
found the rough, sarcastic brother, whom she had
rather feared than loved, the tenderest of friends
when she was in real distress. It is at such a time
that we always know our true friends, and find out
the soft parts of their natures. Uncle Timothy
could not be persuaded to leave Anna ; he went
himself to Mr. Michelson, and, apologizing for the
trouble he should give, said 

'' My nephew will, I hope, be able to go back to
his own duties in London in the course of a day or
two, if no violent return of the complaint take
place tonight. I shall then wish, if you have no
objection, to be with Anna entirely, as she will require
the most constant care and watching. I feel
how much we are intruding, but if we can save
her''

' Yes, save her, for God's sake !" said Mr.
Michelson, looking with some feeling at the old

man, half blind, who was willing to sacrifice all his
own comforts for his niece : " this house is at your
service ; I may go away in a day or two, and then
it will be wholly frees

Behind Uncle Timothy stood Tiny, who had led
him down the strange staircase to Mr. Michelson.
His sight was better, but he was still fearful of
places that he did not know well. It was singular
that, do what he would to prevent it, a sensation
of suffering came over Mr. Michelson as he saw
Tiny,  a desire to speak to her, but a want of
power to find words to address her. He bent to
her politely, as to a stranger, and she returned the
inclination.

I should like to see Jessie before we leave,"
said Captain Burford to Uncle Timothy ; '' of course
she will be head nurse, she always is, God bless
her ! And you. Tiny ?"

"Pynsent and Jessie think I had better go
home," said Tiny timidly. " Jessie says the
housekeeper is so kind that she shall want no
help ; and we are so many  "

I hope you will stay if you wish it," said Mr.
Michelson, looking at Tiny, and suddenly meeting
her eyes. Oh ! the expression of those eyes, and
the pang at his heart !

"May I come again, then?" asked Tiny,
eagerly.

"As you like  when you like' said Mr. Michelson,
turning away.

They thought he was annoyed by the fuss and
bustle, and Charles gently took Tiny aside, and
said she had better return now, at all events.

She led Uncle Timothy upstairs again, and
after opening the door for them, Mr. Michelson
went into the hall, and watched her as she ascended
the staircase, guiding the steps of her kind
guardian and protector. Again the pang shot
through his heart.

Jessie came down immediately.
Jessie, my dear. Nelson says that he has not
seen you once since you all came back together to
Fairfield."

No, Captain Burford, Nelson has not been to
Fairfield."

He did not like to come at such a time, my
dear. Ah ! Jessie, he is all that a father could
wish."

Jessie blushed, knowing the good Captain's
weak point, even at such a time.
"Did you want me ?" she asked.
Here Nelson came into the room with little
Chatham, who had been entertaining him with
various family histories. He held out his hand to
Jessie, with the old, old smile, that she had not
seen for so many years.

How is Anna'' lie asked.

Very ill, but Pynsent hopes, better. It is a
dreadful catastrophe. It seems as if there were to
be no end to her troubles."

"Jessie, you must not be too anxious. You
must not injure your own health by over-watching
and nursing. What should we aU do if you were
iU?"

This was said very naturally, and* literally meant
nothing more than the mere words might convey ;
still there was the manner and voice of years ago,
that spoke more directly to Jessie's heart, than
any words could have done. She knew that Nelson
was no hypocrite, though rarely betrayed into any
display of feeling ; and she was at once convinced
that some change in himself had restored them to
their old footing. She had thought so in London,
during the few and brief conversations they had on
matters not directly concerning themselves : and
she had also seen that Anna was no longer what
she had once been to him. A feeling of happiness
shot through the overpowering anguish she was
suffering On her sister's account  happiness at believing
that the friend of her childhood had recovered
his old friendship for her  nothing more :
she had given up all other hopes long ago. She
looked at him with those truthful eyes that he

knew so well, and received another kind , old-fashioned
smile in return. They understood one
another : all was as it used to be.

Captain Burford was watching them, and he
suddenly began to rub his hands with an alacrity
that startled everybody, and that he felt to be very
improper under the circumstances. Jessie turned
to say a few words to Uncle James, and was going
upstairs, when little Chatham came forward with,

Well, Aunty, may I stay with you ?"

No, dear ; you must go home with Aunt Tiny,
and take care of the farms

He knew it was useless to resist, so he crept
round to Mr. Michelson, who at once took his
hand, and said, with more natural feeling than he
had yet displayed, " This little fellow must be my
companion and my property, now if you will allow
him."

There was an emphasis on the snow" that
everybody understood. It was as much as to say,
Now that his son was gone, and he could not make
reparation where it was dues

You are not angry. Aunty ? Oh, I will go
home directly," cried the child, throwing his arms
round Jessie, whose tears were flowing fast.

No, no, love. Stay, and be good to this gentleman."


She took him by the hand, and led him to his
grandfather.

I thank God, Sir, that you see the right.
May he be a blessing to you, and gain and deserve
your love V

She stooped to kiss the child, and as she smiled
through her tears, such a radiance was in her eyes,
as had never shone there before.

You are a wonderful young woman's said Mr.
Michelson involuntarily, as Jessie hurried away.

You are right ! you are rights exclaimed
Captain Burford, seizing his hand, and shaking it
ecstatically. " Brothers, sister, and uncles have
had reason to bless the light of her sweet face for
many years, and now a new generation has to do
the same. Don't you love your Aunt, Chatham ? ''

' Dearly, dearly : best of all ! ' cried the boy.

"And God knows, so do I," said the good
Captain.

If any film still covered Nelson's eyes, it fell off
now, and never gathered again.

The carriages came round, and Mr. Michelson
watched Captain Burford and Nelson drive off in
one, and saw Uncle James, Charles, and Tiny into
the other. Tiny had always felt kindly disposed
to Mr. Michelson, since her childhood. He had
been good to her once, and she had never forgotten

it. She put out her hand timidly , and the proud
man took it , and looked into her eyes,  not the
bold, unpleasant look, that Jessie and Anna had
always disliked, but one of anxious curiosity. And
again the pang shot through his heart, and he turned
hastily away.

He was thankful to be alone ; thankful that all
the unusual excitement was over. He shut himself
into his library, forgetful of little Chatham,
and of all external things. Again a tide of remorse
swept over him. The very sight of that family
love, which he had just witnessed, added to his
pain. He had no one to love or care for him, and
he deserved to be hated and despised. He had
never thought of any one but self during his long
life, and now he had only self to care for self. On
the contrary, a simple country girl, who had all
her life forgotten self in her desire to do her duty
to others, was blessed with the love and respect of
all who knew her. He began to wish that the impulse
of nature had not been so strong within him at
the funeral, as to have induced him to ask them
all to his house. He could not but continue to
hate people who were a perpetual reproach to him
who had loved his son  brought up his grandson
 lived respectably on the tithe of a fortune
that he had squandered on trifles; and, finally.

gladly accepted such advances as he had made towards
a reconciliation. And through every reflections
every thought, came that beautiful young
wife  the artist-genius, whom under other circumstances
he would have courted and flattered, but
at whom he now dared scarcely look, she was so
like one whom he had wronged.

His reflections were interrupted by a knock at
the door. His hasty interjection, nearly approaching
to an oath, sank into a growing "Who's
there''

"It's me. Grandpa. May I come in? I don't
like being alone in this great house."

Mr. Michelson admitted his little grandson with
as much readiness as he could assume.

If I may have a book," said the child, looking
round the well-filled library, "I won't talk, and
then I shan't trouble you ; but it was so lonely in
that big room in the dark, with those pictures
looking at me ; I thought they were making faces,
and I got frightened."

"No," said Mr. Michelson, rousing himself;
"you must talk to me. There is a little stool;
bring it to the fire, and tell me all about your life
at Fairfield."

The boy was soon deep in the histories of great-uncles
and aunts, horses, cows, pigeons, and poultry.

Insensibly his grandfather forgot himself in
this new interest, and found himself really listening
to the descriptions of country life and manners as
exhibited at Fairfield. He began to wonder whether
he could ever bring himself to live in one place,
and to make occupation and amusement out of
surrounding objects; and by degrees his mood
softened, and he felt, he knew not how, a better
man.

By-and-by the housekeeper came with a message
from Miss Burton, to say that, if Mr. Michelson
had no objection. Master Chatham had better
have his supper and go to bed.

Bring it here, then, said Mr. Michelson.

"May I sleep with you, Grandpa? I don't
like to be quite alone in this big house''

I hope you are not a coward. Sir ? "

I am a soldier's son ! " said the boy, drawing
himself up, " and I could fight any one in the day ;
but I never was anywhere but at Fairfield before."

Have the dressing-room made ready for this
young gentleman, next to the east room prepared
for me," said Mr. Michelson, as the housekeeper
was leaving the room.

It was something for a man who had not eaten
w with an appetite for months to watch the boy eat
his supper of bread-and-milk. When it was concluded

he got down and very solemnly thanked
God for his meal. Then he asked if he might goto
his aunt ; and when informed that she inst not
be taken from his mamma , he said " Then may I
say my prayers to you ? I sometimes say them to
Uncle Timothy, when Aunty is very, very busy.

Mr. Michelson neither said yes nor no, but ashe
saw Chatham pause for an answer, he made
a slight movement, which was taken for consent,
and the boy knelt down at his grandfather's knees.
There was nothing remarkable in this. He had
been accustomed to repeat his morning and evening
prayers to his aunt, and he knew that it was right
to do so ; therefore he proposed to make his grandfather
the hearer on the present occasion. But
the action was not without its effect on Mr. Michelson.
As he looked down on the curly, blackhead
of the boy, he remembered a time when he
had suddenly entered that same room years ago,
and seen his son kneeling at his mother's feet, 
when he, too, was a child and greatly resembled the
one before him. He remembered how his pale,
patient wife had started when he thus surprised her,
and had flushed with sudden colour when he, by
some, to him, unnatural impulse, had kissed her,
and put his hand on his child's head. Why did
all these long-banished memories crowd upon him

at this time ? He could not tell ; but they came
uncalled, and would not be dismissed.

When Chatham had ended his simple prayers,
his grandfather put his arm round him and kissed
him. The child looked pleased, and said, "You
love me now, Grandpa. I shall tell old Will, and
Dinah, and Aunt Betsey, that you are very good
and kind, and that you are to have the Hall always."


Can you tell me, little Chatham, who that lady
was before she married your Uncle Charles, whom
they call Tiny?"

"No; but I don-'t think she has any papa or
mamma, any more than Aunt Jessie."

Did you never hear them talk about her at
Fairfield?"

I heard Dinah say to Molly, the dairymaid, that
nobody knew who she was, and that she was not
half good enough for Uncle Charles. But indeed
she is very good ; and don't you think she is very
pretty?"

"Did they like your Uncle Charles to marry
her?"

Aunt Betsey did not. I heard her scold Aunt
Jessie about it once ; but Aunty sent me out of the
room. Do you know. Aunt Betsey is very proud :
Dinah says so ; and I don't like her very much."

The housekeeper came to take Master Chatham
to bed, and thus ended the queries concerning
Tiny, from the answers to which Mr. Michelson
did not gain much satisfaction. He however sat
long that night pondering over the events of the
day ; but what conclusions he came to it would be
difficult to say, since he went to bed in a most unsettled
state of mind,  a mind softened, it is true,
but not purified from the immense amount of worldliness
and selfishness it contained.

Meanwhile the night passed wearily and anxiously
to the watchers upstairs. In due course of
time Uncle Timothy was prevailed upon to go to
bed, and Pynsent and Jessie were left alone with
their exhausted sister. The housekeeper had been
most attentive, and had offered to sit up or do anything
in her power to relieve Jessie, who however
declined further services, with many thanks. It
was a long time since Pynsent and Jessie had met,
and now their meeting was most painful. Death
and sickness had brought them together, and they
had neither time nor inclination to talk over the
many little events and affairs, too minute for a
letter, that each had to communicate to the other.

Anna had looked weak and ill that morning,
when she followed her child to the grave; but
what was her weakness then to what it is now ? It

is not necessary to tell her to be quiet : her strength
is so prostrated that she cannot move. She lies
with one arm outside the bed, and the hand looks
as Avhite as the sheet on which it rests ; whilst her
face is perfectly colourless. She seems either to
dream or doze, as her eyes are closed; but she
does not attempt to speak. She is evidently too
weak to make any effort, mentally or bodily. They
administer either nourishment or medicine every
quarter of an hour, and she swallows it unconsciously.
Pynsent has taken his place by that deathlike
hand, where his uncle sat so long, and feels
the pulse frequently. His skill alone would make
him conscious of a pulse : that sign of continuing
life would not appear to an uninitiated touch ; but
Pynsent thanks God and takes courage, for its
faint throb is just perceptible to him.

Thus wanes the night. Jessie, shoving to and
fro by the faint light of a lamp, looks like a spectre.
Now and then she pauses by the side of Pynsent,
and whispers the oft-repeated question, Is it
stronger ?  to which Pynsent can only reply by
a melancholy shake of the head ; then Jessie sits
down in the large armchair, and prays silently.

At last the first faint rays of the autumn sun
pierce the window-curtains, and with them creeps
in the housekeeper, followed shortly after by Uncle

Timothy. About the same moment the faint distant
sound of a bell is heard. Slight as it is, they
fear lest it should startle Anna. She uncloses her
eyes, but quickly falls back again into unconsciousness.


She is better," whispers Uncle Timothy.
The pulse is a shade stronger."

Now, Maam," says the housekeeper to Jessie,
you must lie down for an hour or two."

'' Yes," says Pynsent,  you will want all your
strength, and you must not exhaust it at the beginning."


Jessie yielded, and, as she was leaving the room,
was met by Mr. Michelsons valet, with his masters
inquiries for Mrs. Michelson. She said she hoped
she was a little better. The housekeeper conducted
her to a bedroom, and she lay down. Exhausted
by a week of harass and wretchedness, she
soon slept, but awoke in a few hours, to return
again to her post, refreshed, and prepared for another
day and night of watching.

Three or four such days and nights gradually
gave Anna some degree of strength, and enabled
her doctors to say that there was no present danger
of any return of the bleeding from the lungs ;
for they had by this time too surely discovered
from whence it came. The fear was now that

this dangerous attack, preceded as it had been by-months
of excitement and fatigue, might terminate
in consumption. She still continued too weak
to talk, but recognized and smiled upon those
about her, as if she was conscious of her situation.
It was sad to witness the gradual return
of memory, with some small portion of physical
power. It was visible in the melancholy expression
of her eyes, and the quiet tears that constantly
flowed down her cheeks, and that no one
tried to repress.

Could we look into the bewildered mind, it
would be sadder still. First came the questions
Where am I ? What am 1?' put to self, much
as an infant, if he have reasoning powers, must
put it, when 'he first opens his eyes upon the
light. Then flocked in odd dreamy recollections
of childhood, and the woman, Anna, was
again playing amid the fields and gardens of Fairfield.
Anon confused memories of brothers, sisters,
friends, and companions, floated about, indistinct,
but real. It was long before she advanced
to more mature years, and dreams of Indian days
rushed through her mind. But here, too, were
children : those two beloved ones that she had left
behind her in their foreign graves lived again, and,
together with her husband, played before her.

Dancing in came that last and dearest the little
Anna so spiritual and shadowy that she could
not clasp her. Mingling with each and all, glided
in Nelson , grave, and with that strange hanging
sleeve ; and Jessie, looking so calm and sweet,
with those few slight threads of silver hair that
the young ones seemed to try to pluck out : and
so, for hours, and even days, these dear ones intertwined
and succeeded each other like phantoms
in her mazy mind. Suddenly she is on the sea,
buffeted about by the waves, and now a presage
of the reality dawns upon her : the dying child 
the slaughtered husband  the funeral  the past 
the present  slowly unfold before her, and therefore
those quiet tears, those heavy sighs.

So best,' whispers Uncle Timothy ; ' it is
natural, and whatever is true to nature is rights'

The first words she spoke were to Jessie. They
were alone for a few minutes together, and their
hands tenderly clasped.

Am I dying, Jessie ?" she gasped. " Tell me
truly."

Thank God, dearest, you are better ; but very
ill," was the reply.

Pray for my soul," she said, and closed her
eyes.

Again, some time afterwards 

VOL. III. L

' My child  my Anna  where is she ?"

She is very happy ;, love. Be quiet, for all our
sakes."

I know : she is in heaven. If I were nth
her  " The tears flowed on.

Again, at another time 

Where am I ? Is this Plas Ayr on ? Am I
in a dream? or what is this strange room V

You are among friends, dearest : do not ask
more. It is essential that you should be quiet."

Again 

' I have been very wicked, Jessie : wilful and
vain, and altogether sinful. Will God forgive me?"

'' All, for Christ's sake, dearest love. Pray
through Him, and we will pray with you."

For Chris s sake," she murmured, and closed
her eyes.

Again 

' Do you think my husband is in heaven ? He
was very good, and kind ; but  "

'' God is merciful, Anna : let us hope. Perhaps
he is not dead."

Ah no ! he died to punish me."

Hush ! do not say such things : try to becalm,
and sleep, and put your trust in God."

 For Chris s sake," she murmured once more.

And thus days wore on, with very slight and

slow amendment. At the end of a week, however,
she was decidedly stronger, and able to be
moved in a sheet from one bed to another, whilst
her bed was made. When this fatiguing operation
was performed, and she was lying apparently
quiet and comfortable, she addressed Pynsent, who
was by her side.

Pynsent, I have not deserved so much from
you.'

Nonsense, Anna dear : are we not brother
and sister ? "

Have you forgiven me  quite  quite  what I
did to Nelson ?''

Long ago ; so do not let us think of it again.
All was, doubtless, for the best.

And my many sins against yourself? Oh,
you are so kind ! "

Anna, understand that I love you with a brother's
love; and do not excite yourself by these
fears''

Then, Pynsent, you must prove your love by
going back to London. I heard Uncle Timothy
urge it : I know it is right. You will lose your
profession. I cannot talk. Promise me."

Pynsent promised, and kissed his sister as he
did so !

Pynsent, God bless you ! Think of me kindly.

l2

Thank you for all you did to my little Chatham
long ago/

'' Now Anna dear, you must not exert yourself:
remember, I am your doctor, and you must
obey."

And for once Anna did obey her brother, and
slept.

CHAPTER XLIII.

Though the day of my destiny's over,

And the star of my fate hath declined,
Thy soft heart refused to discover

The faults which so many could find ;
Though thy soul with my grief was acquainted,

It shrank not to share it with me.
And the love which my spirit hath painted

It never hath found but in thee  Byron.

The following day, Pynsent, at the request and
by the advice of all parties, returned to London.
A profession so difficult to gain and keep, was not
to be lost, and his patients were constantly sending
for him ; so, as there was no immediate danger in
Annans case, and as his uncle was with her, he
sacrificed feeling to imperative duty and necessity.
He naturally expressed himself much obliged to
Mr. Michelson for his kindness to them all ; but
he did not thank him on Annans account, because
he considered that she had a right to all that was
done for her. He was glad to find him more
friendly in his demeanour, and came down from his
own height accordingly. Little Chatham seemed

quite at home with his grandfather, who, during
the past week, had kept him constantly with him.
Fear had acted as powerfully on Mr. Michelsons
mind as a sense of right ; more so, perhaps. He
was under a constant dread of paralysis, or sudden
death ; and he had an indistinct notion that one
way of making his peace with God was by making
peace with those he had injured.

Little boy, will you go into the library ?" he
said to Chatham. He somehow disliked calling
him Chatham  it reminded him of his own son.

Mr. Burton, I once heard you suggest to my
physician that you thought my attack paralysis. I
did not know you then, but I often have wished to
consult you, as I think  I fear  in short, there
may be a returns

Mr. Michelson's hand trembled. Pynsent saw
the fear, and at once inquired into symptoms, and
prescribed. He found the nervous system much
shaken, and, although he did not say so, agreed
with the patient. Country air ; amusement without
excitement; exercise, and certain medicines,
were Pynsent's remedies; which proved different
from those of the physician in town.

You will find my uncle a most able adviser if
you will condescend to consult him ; and anything
I can do by letter I shall be most happy to do."

Pynsent had a capital horse from Mr. Michelson,
and he thought he might just give himself time to
take a peep at his friends before he started.

Seated in the large, old-fashioned parlour, m
great state, were Aunt Betsey and Mrs. Colville ;
the latter reclining on a sofa with a newspaper
in her hand ; the former, as usual, knitting those
everlasting articles for which Pynsent could never
find names. Mrs. Colville was rejoiced to see her
doctor, but, truth to tell, she was so much better,
and had been so well treated by Uncle Timothy,
that even she acknowledged herself nearly convalescent.
Aunt Betsey and she suited admirably,
and took to one another from the first, because
each alike prided herself on her family. It was
fortunate for the Buttons reputation for antiquity,
and for Pynsent s in particular, that they had an
Aunt Betsey. Mrs. Colville would have looked
upon them with eyes of suspicion, as nobodies, but
for her. She now regarded them as people of
family, and consequently equal to any one.

u There is nothing like blood, in my opinions
she would say to Aunt Betsey.

"Nor in mine, Ma'am, would be the reply.
It is singular that my nephews and nieces think
nothing of it.'

"Wel, Pynsent, said Aunt Betsey after the

first embrace  they had not met before  " this is a
pretty concatenation of events. Only imagine my
poor dear Annans being taken to the Hall ! I
really would rather have followed her to her
grave."

My dear Anne, it is a most fortunate concatenation,
as it is likely to give little Chatham his
rights, so pray do not trouble about that. If we
can only save Anna, all will be well, I hope. But
I am just come to say good-bye. Where is my
uncle ?"

He has just driven Mrs. Egerton over to Fairfield.
She is gone to stay a few days with Tiny,
and to help to keep house. I am sure she is most
kind."

Louisa declares that she will take care of the
farm," said Mrs. Colville. " I hope she will not
take cold. I really do not know what I should do
if she were ill."

Pynsent felt Mrs. Colville' s pulse, and declared
her wonderfully better ; told Aunt Betsey that she
looked as young as ever, and was soon on his way
to Fairfield.

Here the first eager cry from all was, " How is
Anna?" even before Louisa had shaken hands with
Pynsent, although she had not seen him since they
parted at the Haddington station. Uncle James

could not resist giving Pynsent one of his old
thumps on the back, and exclaiming 

Do you remember the old games of chess?
Miss Louisa used to puzzle you then, you rascal !
I dare say she will puzzle you more now."

I dare say she will, Uncle ; all ladies are enigmas."


Not so much as gentlemen," said Louisa. " I
told your uncle about the wig.'

Here Tiny came in, with something very nearly
like a colour on her cheeks. She had been ordering
luncheon for Pynsent.

"Tiny," said Pynsent, "I believe Jessie must
come over here next week for a day or two ; will
you have any objection to take her place with Anna
and Uncle Timothy during her stay ? You need
not be afraid of Mr. Michelson, as he is really very
considerate in not interfering with Anna. It has
been a strange chain of circumstances."

Tiny is quite brave now with strangers," said
Louisa ; " she entertained a whole party last week,
who called to inquire for Anna."

Nelson expects the Indian news today," said
Charles, " and we shall probably be satisfied as to
the truth of the report concerning Chatham. What
must be said to Anna?"

If it is true, she had better know it at once,

L 3

as she fully believes it. If untrue, joy, in this
case, might be worse than sorrow ; so it must be
carefully broken to her by degrees. The excitement
of hearing suddenly that he still lives, might
bring on a relapse. I am going to Captain Burford's,
and if the mail has arrived, I will beg Nelson
to ride over to the Hall and see Jessie. Anna
has already been asking about it."

Pynsent and Louisa shook hands very warmly
when they parted, and as he rode toward the town,
he, for awhile, forgot Anna and the other family anxieties
in thinking of the bright eyes of the young
widow, and wondering whether his promise of remaining
a bachelor for Jessie's sake was binding.

He found the Captain and Nelson in a state of
great excitement, and about to start for Fairfield.

 Airs right ! alPs well, thank God V exclaimed
the former, grasping Pynsent's hand. "It was
a false alarm ; 'Major michelson slightly wounded'
is the report, and his regiment not so much cut
up as was originally supposed."

"Poor Anna!" said Pynsent; "this will be
either life or death to her."

Life," said the Captain, " depend upon it. I
don't believe that joy ever kills, though sorrow may.
I dare say there is a letter for her in the postoffice
at this moment."

They all walked to the office at once and found,
as they expected, a letter from Major Michelson
to his wife, feebly directed, but still in his handwriting.
It is needless to say how thankful they
were.

It was settled that Nelson should ride to the
Hall with the news, whilst Captain Burford went
to Fairfield. They saw Pynsent off, and started
soon after. They had time for the following conversation
first.

I vow. Nelson, you look in better spirits than
I have seen you since your return."

Is there not reason for it, my dear Father ?
Major Michelson alive, and, we hope, his wife
better, and likely to be better,  to say nothing of
good accounts from India."

But, Nelson  excuse me  but I really thought
your coming home with Anna, you know, and
fancying her a widow,  now don't be angry,  but
I fancied  zounds ! it will out  I thought the old
feelings would come back, and you would bethinking
of marrying her."

My dear Father, how little you know me !
how little indeed most relations and friends know
one another ! Nothing would ever have induced
me to marry her, after what I knew of her feelings
and character. When my eyes were once fairly

opened, there was little fear of their closing
again."

"My dear boy, it makes me young again to
hear you say so. I was afraid that you had never
got over that affair ; I have never been comfortable
about you from that hour to this."

"Then I ought to be ashamed of myself for
leaving you one moment in doubt, as I am, and
always have been, for my conduct to you on that
occasion. I find that nine or ten years make a
great change in ones feelings and notions; and
mine have undergone a serious one."

By Jove ! the only change you wanted was to
turn from that minx, Anna, to  "

Father, you may be assured that I met Anna
Michelson on the deck of the vessel as I would
have met a sister, and that her sorrow at the loss
of her husband caused me unmitigated pain for
her, but no renewal of hope for myself. I am
thankful to be able to say, that during the whole
voyage I was enabled to act as a friend by her,
without feeling either hope or desire of becoming
anything more to her."

Hurrah ! bravo ! that's what I call a man !
Now for my dear Jessie :  revenons a nos mouton
By the bye, Jessie is studying French and Italian
diligently."

'again my dear Father we must come to an
understanding upon this head. I know what your
good intentions have been for me, and I fully appreciate
them. I also know that there is not in
the whole world a more excellent person than
Jessie; but you must see we can never be anything
to one another but friend's

' But what ? Zounds, Sir, but you must  you
shall ! Do you mean to say that you have found
some new Anna  some fresh piece of beauty and
fascination ? and be hanged to them  ''

snow you must not run off in that way. 1
have no new piece of beauty or fascination."

Then who in the world, Sir, do you mean to
marry ?"

I do not mean to marry at all."

Not marry ! you an old bachelor ! disabled
too ! Why, you want a right arm more than any
man I know."

That is the very reason I shall never get one.
I could not for one moment suppose that, maimed
and middle-aged, any girl would think of me."

The dickens is in it if a hundred girls would
think of you, if only to marry a Colonel. But my
Jessie has thought of you all her life,  little as
you have deserved it,  and would, if you behaved
decently, have you now, perhaps."

"My dear Father, after what passed between
me and Anna, I could no more venture to ask
Jessie to marry me than I could the Queen. A
pretty compliment to a woman, after being jilted
by her own sister ! Oh no ! I honour Jessie too
highly to insult her. Gladly would I prove to
her how much I honour and love her,  yes, love
her,  but not by offering her a suitor rejected by
her sister, and a disabled, useless soldier to boot ;
so do not annoy her by talking of such things."

Hurrah ! all's right. I begin to know you,
Nelson. none but the brave deserve the fair,'
and you are brave and modest too, by Jove you
are ! There, take the letter, and ask to see Jessie.
I shall have my way in my old-age, after all. You
must make haste, though. Be sure to marry
before you are forty, because then you can both
say you are thirty. I don't think Jessie looks a
day more, but as for you, you look fifty at least."

Not very flattering to a man you wish to make
agreeable to a lady of thirty. But how can I ask
for Jessie?"

"With your tongue, I suppose. Isn't she the
best person to give her sister's letter to? Women
know more of these things than men."

But I must see Mr. Michelson first ; remember,
Chatham is his son."

Hang Michelson ! he hasn't one grain of genuine
feeling in his nature. But perhaps you are
right. There's old Jess at the door. Don't start
so ; 'tis the mare. Now go your way, and don't
ride as if you had both your arms to steer with.
There , good bye."

I declare he is incurable. Every one has his
monomania, and this has been my father's all his
life. It must be annoying to Jessie ; but she is so
good, she takes everything like an angel. How
was I ever so blind as to see anything suitable tome
in Anna, or to overlook for a moment all that
is so lovely in Jessie? At this moment I think*
she is the prettiest of the two. No mere beauty
of feature could equal the sunshine of her eyes and
the sweetness of her smile."

As the reader will suppose, this latter speech
was not uttered in the presence of Captain Burford,
but was rather a soliloquy made en route for
the Hall. During the whole ride Nelson was in a
perpetual state of soliloquy of the same kind, and
perhaps Jessie might not have objected to become
the recipient of the same.

Arrived at the Hall, Nelson inquired for Mr.
Michelson. He was out with little Chatham. Miss
Burton was naturally the next person to ask for,
and in due comes of time she appeared.

' I bring you good news Jessie were Nelson's
first words ; '' I hope Anna will be well enough to
bear it."

Thank God, thence said Jessie, much agitated,
Chatham is not dead."

Only slightly wounded. And I have a letter
for Anna."

Oh, my dear, dear sister ! " was all that Jessie
could say as she sat down, more overpowered by
the sudden joy than she had been by her late sorrows.
She burst into tears, and they relieved her.
"\ am so thankful; I cannot help it. It is so
ridiculous to cry for joy; but I am so very, very
thankful."

We are all so thankful, Jessie. Perhaps it will
save her. It will put happiness into all our hearts
once more."

Jessie suddenly looked up, and caught Nelson's
eyes fixed on her with the kind, old expression,
and saw, as he said, joy in his face. She, too, had
been possessed with the Captain's suspicions concerning
Nelson. She had tried to repress them,
as very worldly and wrong; but to see Anna a
widow, and Nelson her protector during a long
voyage, to note his devoted attention to her, and
his grief for her child, had been to recal the
ancient attachment, and to make visions for the

future. Now those visions were swept away, and
yet Nelson looked supremely happy. There was
nothing forced in his manner or expression : Jessie
knew them both well, and that when he was vexed
or pained, the grave, stern mouth was the index.
Now he smiled as she loved to see him smile.

There was a look of surprise, or inquiry, or
something peculiar, in Jessicass truthful eyes, as
she glanced at Nelson, which he seemed to understand.


 Et tu, Brute ? and you too, Jessie ?" he said,
as if in reply to her thought. " You are mistaken ;
that could never have been, and neither she nor I
would ever have wished it.

Jessie blushed crimson, as if taken in a crime,
and cast down her eyes. They were both silent.
Jessie recovered herself, and said 

I must go to Anna. I am sure you will excuse
me. I must consult with my uncle as to the
best means of breaking this to her."

Jessie had not been alone with Nelson for many
years; he had avoided such interviews formerly,
and now it was embarrassing to her. They both
knew what had been originally intended, and that
in young days they had themselves wished the same.

One more word, Jessie, now T have the opportunity,"
said Nelson. " Shall you and I go back

twenty years of our existence, and start from the
time when I first went to India?"

Jessie could not answer, she was so taken by
surprise.

'' Can you look upon me as the old and early
friend, who has actually returned, in mind at least,
to that time, in spite of this lopped limb and these
grey hairs?"

I have never looked upon you in any other
light," said Jessie ; " I have never changed."

The words were scarcely uttered when Jessie
wished them recalled. What construction might
not Nelson put upon the " I have never changed" ?
so rashly expressed. If he knew how dearly she
had loved him aU her life, what must he think of
the confession she had made ? How bold and forward
he must think her !

But Nelson only looked happy and grateful ; he
was not a vain man, and could not suppose that
she had ever thought of him decidedly in any light
but that of a friend.

Then we are friends for life, Jessie ; once more
brother and sister, in all but blood," said Nelson.
Again the bright tears of joy gleamed in Jessicass
eyes as she looked frankly at Nelson, and put out
her hand. Nelson took it, and as he glanced at
his own left hand, said gaily 

It is nearest the heart, as the saying is , although
it has not yet learnt the friendly shake of
its departed brother. God bless you, Jessie ! But
I am detaining you, and you must be wanted.
Give my love to Anna ; and if you venture to tell
her, say I rejoice with all my heart."

Jessie had not felt for many, many years the great
big throb of happiness that suddenly beat in her
every pulse. Chatham living, and Nelson what he
used to be to her ! In the excess of her joy she
felt that Anna too must live to share and complete
it. She did not dare to go to Anna with
that face of delight and those tears. She went to
her room to compose herself, and to thank God
for His mercies. There she found little Chatham,
searching for a book he had left there.

What is the matter. Aunty ? You have been
crying ; but you look so gay. Ah ! I know : my
papa is alive. Hurrah ! my papa is alive. I will
go and tell grandpa;" and without waiting fora
word, the child ran off. Jessie called to him,
and tried to stop him in vain, so she thought she
had better follow him; but he was out-of-doors,
and far down the drive, before she had reached the
bottom of the stairs.

Jessie has truly a tell-tale face. She thinks it is
calm and composed when she enters Annans room.

Uncle Timothy is quietly repeating a psalm which
he knows by heart to Anna but Anna looks up
suddenly. No sooner has she seen Jessie's eyes
than her own emit a wonderful light, and a flush
overspreads her face.

"He is alive'' she exclaims, "I see it;" and
she suddenly rises in her bed, but falls back again
from weakness. She puts her thin hand over
her eyes, and all that Jessie can discover, as she
leans anxiously over her, is a nervous twitching of
the mouth and trembling of the hand. Jessie prepares
a composing draught, whilst Uncle Timothy
watches the effect of this sudden emotion, the cause
of which is unknown to him, with great anxiety.
At last a low sob is heard, and tears steal through
the fingers, and down the cheeks. They dare not
speak to her for a long time ; but Jessie becomes
so alarmed that she just murmurs, "Anna, dear
Anna ! " as she kisses the forehead and hand of
her sister.

"Yes, I can bear it; only leave me now,"
murmurs Anna.

Jessie draws the curtains round the bed, and
having whispered the good news to Uncle Timothy,
sits down.

It seems a long time to wait in such great uncertainty,
but still the gentle sob is heard occasionally,

and Jessie prays that all may be well. At
last she hears a faint " Jessie !" from the bed and
undraws the curtain. Again Anna looks at her.

Say  say  " .she exclaims.

It is true dearest ; he lives says Jessie.

"I knew it  I saw it in your face. I have
known the day that the letters ought to come,
from the first : and I have waited, and counted the
days and hours, ever since we came to England.
Although I believed he was dead, I have ventured
to hope a little since my illness : and now there is
something to live for."

Jessie could say,  There is always something to
live for, if we strive to do our duty," but she refrains.


"And now, kiss me, Jessie, and thank God forme.
You will do it better than I, and He will hear
you better: and I will learn to be grateful, as I
ought.-' Again the quiet tears flow down Annans
pale face, as she turns away, and hides herself and
her deep feelings even from her sister.

Jessie begins to think of Mr. Michelson, but
finds that Uncle Timothy has already gone, she
doubts not, in search of him. Uncle Timothy returns
however, and says that he has just met little
Chatham, who is asking for Jessie most anxiously.
Jessie goes out, and is accosted by Chatham.

Oh ! Aunts will you come to Grandpa ? I
am afraid I have hurt him. I did not like to tell
Uncle Timothy .''

Jessie followed Chatham to the library where
she found Mr. Michelson, looking very pale and
apparently in pain. He articulated with difficulty


' Is  it  true ? Is  my son  "

"Yes Sir; he is alive, thank God, and only
slightly wounded. But you are ill?

'' Ah ! yes  my side  my head V

Jessie rang the bell, told the man to send the
housekeeper, and then went upstairs for her uncle.
She rang for a housemaid, who had been very kind
in helping to wait upon Anna, and begged her to
remain with her sister, whilst she went with her
uncle to Mr. Michelson.

They found him endeavouring to explain to the
housekeeper that he had been a little giddy, but
was better. He did not choose that any one but
his medical man should suppose it possible that he
the grand and gay  could be threatened with
loss of speech and motion. When Uncle Timothy
appeared, he waved the housekeeper from him, who
went out, followed by Jessie and little Chatham.

The clever doctor soon found what was the matter
; and although he did not consider the present

attack alarming, he, like Pynsent, thought it might
be the precursor of paralysis. As Mr. Michelson
attempted to move, there was a pain  a numbness,
that kept him to his chair. He looked alarmed.

Am I  can I be paralyzed V he asked with
hesitation.

"No' said Uncle Timothy; "but there is
something very wrong in the nervous systems

Ah, yes ! Any shock ? Do not hint at paralysis
 to others  I should prefer not''

Mr. Barnard rang the bell, and desired the servant
who came to stay with his master, whilst he
went to the little apothecary's shop in Anna's
room, to prepare some medicine. He got upstairs
with some difficulty, as he rarely went about in
strange places without a guide. His sight, though
better, was still imperfect.

Jessie, recollecting alone that it was a case of illness,
took the medicine downstairs. Anna appeared
to be sleeping : at all events she was composed and
quiet. Mr. Michelson took the medicine with a
surprised and somewhat grateful look. He made
an effort at polite thanks, but Jessie said she hoped
he would allow her to see to his medicines, because
she was so used to it. Circumstances were taking
the proud, hard heart by storm. "Those Bur-tons
! What was there in those Burtonss ? The

were always brought before him without any effort
either on their part or his own!" He almost
thought these very words as he looked into Jessicass
kind face, and took the medicine.

Mr. Michelson did not recover from this attack
as speedily as from the last. He was unable to
walk much, and the giddiness in his head returned
at intervals. Little Chatham was invaluable, and
his grandfather could scarcely allow him to be out
of his sight. The truth was, he was nervous alone,
and the dread of paralysis was so great, that he
could not bear to be without company. By degrees
he managed to have Mr. Barnard a great
deal with him; and as they were both men of
varied information, they got on very well together.
He was astonished and amused at the simplicity of
Uncle Timothy, and sometimes impressed by the
deep tone of his religious opinions, which were not
long at a time repressed. As to himself, although
he had managed to keep up the appearance of religion,
he had none at heart. He was pained when
he compared his own isolation with the position of
that bachelor uncle, who had, from mere generosity
and goodness, drawn around him ties so strong,
that nothing but death could sever them. He
even dreaded the return of his only son, and
scarcely knew whether to be really glad that he was

alive , after all, because their meeting must be so
painful and unnatural, if they met at all. Poor
man ! it was no easy task to nurse and wait upon
him during those few weeks of querulous, impatient,
and ill-supported indisposition.

VOL. III. ]Vi

CHAPTER XLIV.

Leon revient toujours
A ses premiers amours."

During those few weeks other matters began to
mend. Anna was better. It was still doubtful
whether she might not go into a consumption;
and quite certain that if she recovered recovery
must be very slow ; but she now took such pains
to get better, and attended so precisely to her
nucleus orders, that there was hope. By degrees
all that had happened was revealed to her, and she
read Chatham's letter, in which he expressed his
hope that he might eat his Christmas dinner with
her at Fairfield. She heard, with much trouble,
and even annoyance, that she was ill at Michelson
Hall : like her aunt, she could not bear to be
indebted to its owner. Her constant question was,
' When shall I be able to go home'' She felt
no wish to be reconciled to the man who had renounced
her husband, and denounced her. She
could not bear that little Chatham should be contaminated

by him. She was too weak to be reasoned
with, so they let her have her way , and said
little of Mr. Michelson. That gentleman began
to walk ont and Anna to sit up, about the same
time. They were neither of them very patient
convalescents, but Uncle Timothy and Jessie nursed
and doctored them indefatigably, and they were
both grateful ; Anna warmly and audibly so, Mr.
Michelson silently and wonderingly. He could
not understand the feeling that was springing up
in his heart ; but  love begets love."

Little Chatham was daily admitted to see his
mamma, and daily repeated to his grandfather in
the evening what he had heard in the afternoon.

Mamma says that now she is better, she must
go back to Fairfield," he began one day.

To Fairfield? Why cannot she stay here ?"

" She said she did not like living on your
bounty. I told her you loved Papa and her now,
but she only kissed me, and told me I knew nothing
about it."

Go and ask your aunt if she would kindly give
me five minutes conversation."

Chatham went.

What am I to do?" continued Mr. Michelson
in soliloquy ; " if they go away, I shall not be half
attended to, and this partial reconciliation will be

M 2

all over. When Chatham comes back there will
be the whole thing to do again. I really like Miss
Burton and Mr. Barnard , and I could not do without
the little fellow now. As to Miss Annabella,
I can never take to her again  insolent, imperious
young woman !  still, there may be the appearance
of civility. And I must find out more concerning
that wonderful Tiny. And my son ! Now I know
that he is alive, I dread his return. But what
shall I do with myself, if I am wholly confined to
my chair or bed ? I must have some one to nurse
me, and amongst so many soft hearts they may
spare me one. I never before conceived the horrors
of being alone in the world /

Enter Jessie.

Ah ! Miss Burton. I hope you will excuse
my troubling you, but my little grandson tells me
that his mamma is thinking of returning to Fair-fields


'She does not like trespassing on your kindness
said Jessie, blushing as she remembered the
real cause of her anxiety to leave the Hall.

I think I understand her, said Mr. Michelson
grandly ; " but after what has lately happened,
here must be no more of this kind of thing amongst
us. I intend receiving my son here as usual, and
I expect his wife  "

Here Mr. Michelson broke off abruptly, and put
his hand to his head. It was remarkable that since
the last attack, his power of pursuing a conversation
had diminished, and he seemed to lose his
memory.

*' I understand," said Jessie readily; "you.are
very kind, and I hope that we may be all grateful
for your intentions."

Thank you. Where was I ? Yes, that is it.
Do you think your sister would see me ? I am
quite restored, and she is better."

I will ask my uncle, and if he approves, I will
name the subject to Anna."

"At once, perhaps, so that I may see her tomorrow."


I will mention it to my uncle at once."
Did you not say that you expected your sister-in-law
here shortly ? "

Yes ; she will come, with your permission, in
my place for a day or two, as I am obliged to go
home."

But what shall we do without you ? Do you
know any one at all like your sister-in-law ? "

"Not at present. I used to fancy her rather
like Miss Rutherford."

Ah ! but Miss Rutherford had no relations in
England. Who was your sister-in-law?"

A ward of my uncles/

Jessie blushed. She always did when there was
mystery.

Did you know her relations ? "

No. I believe she is an orphan ; but we seldom
talk of her friends to any one."

This was so unmistakable, that even Mr. Michelson
could push it no further.

Then you will kindly ask about your sister ?"
he added.

Yes, I will go at once."

No sooner did Jessie appear in Anna's room,
than Anna exclaimed 

' Jessie, how red you look ! I am sure the great
Sultan must have been complimenting you. Does
he want jow. to marry him now ? That would bea
consummation !"

This was Anna's first attempt at raillery, and
Jessie hailed it as a good sign.

'' You would be my mother-in-law, then ! Uncle
Timothy declares the Mogul has taken quite a
fancy to you. But tell me exactly what he said.
Did he tell you he meant to marry you, as he did
me?"

I fancy he feels too ill to think about marriage.
Little Chatham had told him that you were
talking of going to Fairfield."

I dare say he added  because I would not be
further indebted to him. I hope he did.

Oh, Anna ! '

The old leaven, Jessie. I feel so much lighter
and better today, so done be angry. But what
did he say?"

Why, actually, that when you were sufficiently
recovered, he should like to see you."

Me ! we should fight, in five minutes."

I do not think you would ; he is so altered :
he is really grown quite pleasant."

'swell, nothing will alter you, my best sister.
You see everything couleur de rose still, in spite of
all these years, that have jaundiced my eyes. I
really think I should like to see Mr. Michelson.
Only he would kill me, if he alluded to the past,
because we should be sure to quarrel. Is he as
pompous as he used to be ? I remember when I
thought him the very acme of perfection, and was
so vain of his admiring me, that I believe, had he
asked me properly, and had there been no Chatham,
I should have married him."

If you see him, Anna, you must recollect that
he is your husbands father, and an old man."

Do you think he looks upon himself in either
of those lights ? He must be greatly altered if he
does."

' He was very kind in allowing you to be
brought here, when it would have been your death
to have been taken home; and to have so many
persons in his house, whom he disliked quite as
much as we disliked him/

You are right, Jessie. Well, I will see him
if I may ; but I feel suddenly quite weak again.
I wonder whether I shall live to see Chatham ; and
whether, if I live, I shall ever be like you. I have
had lessons enough. Oh, my darling little Anna !
I can never be happy again."

Jessie was at her sister's side with jelly, in a
moment, and ordered perfect quiet. Anna's short-lived
strength and excitement had been already too
much for her, so it was evident that she could not
see Mr. Michelson that day.

Uncle Timothy was of opinion that the sooner
the dreaded but necessary interview was over, the
better, and Jessie accordingly told Mr. Michelson,
that if Anna was well enough, she would be glad
to see him on the morrow. This determination
caused more excitement to both the invalids than
they chose to allow, and recalled, very forcibly,
their last interview, when that unprecedented proposal
was made, and so scornfully rejected. Each
thought of this alone, and of what the other must
think. The desire of pleasing, personally, is very

strong in most natures , but stronger in some than
others. Handsome people have it, frequently,
well developed. They are admired once : they
know it, and wish to be so always. If old-age, or
sickness, or sorrow bereave them of their beauty,
they fancy all their power is gone, and with it
the great charm of their life, since those who cared
for them before, will care for them no longer.
They look upon themselves as faded flowers, and
would fain, like them, drop out of sight. Handsome
men are as vain as handsome women : often
more so. The first crowds foot, the first grey hair,
is quite as disagreeable to the stronger as to the
weaker vessel.

Thus it was with Mr. Michelson and Anna.
Both had been handsome when they last met.
What were they now ? Could they make the same
impression on each other now as then? It was
curious that, in spite of all other events, that had
proved and might still prove so momentous to
each, this was the feeling uppermost in their minds.
It might be a sudden joining of the broken link
of association between them, that had been snapped
when they were in the zenith of their vanity and
good looks. Whatever the cause, these were the
effects.

Mr. Michelson was seen before his glass, brushes



ing and clipping hair and whiskers arranging his
attire peering into his wrinkles, and involuntarily
sighing over the changes of years. The old beau
wished to be the young one, and, not being able to
effect the metamorphosis, swore at his valet, and
upset the eau de millefleurs that he was pouring
on his pocket-handkerchief.

Anna, on the other hand, insisted on having the
glass brought to her, for the first time since her
illness. She had been contented to be dressed and
undressed as Jessie willed hitherto, but now she
must superintend her own toilet. Leaning back in
the easy-chair, attired in a white dressing-gown,
she looked at herself for the first time for many
weeks.

' Oh ! what a haggard, pale, miserable wretch
I look V were her first words. " Jessie, this cannot
be my own real self! It is impossible that I
could see any one, looking such an object. 

My dear Anna, let us thank God that you are
betters' said Jessie with a deep sigh.

Yes  I do  I do  but what will Chatham
think ?' Anna burst into tears. In a few moments
she laughed. ' Jessie, can you forgive
such folly? Two or three months ago I cut off
all my hair, because I thought I should never care
for anything earthly again : and now, in spite of

all my trials I am crying because I am not as
handsome as I was twenty years ago/

Both Jessie and her uncle had perceived with
pain that since Anna had been getting a little
better, she had been very excitable. The unnatural
calm was gone, it is true, but the equally unnatural
excitement was still more dangerous.

The fact is," continued Anna, ' I am sure that
the Mogul wil not like me for a daughter-in-law,
if I have lost my good looks. I declare I am not
even an interesting-looking invalid. Chatham
would never bear to see me in this state."

Anna was mistaken in her notions, for although
she had lost the bright colour that used to flash
through her skin, she was quite as captivating
without it, as she reclined negligently in her white,
flowing robe-de-chambre. The very becoming little
morning-cap that Louisa had sent her, had been
carefully put on by Jessie, and the pale cheeks
beneath, contrasted with the long black lashes,
proved that the beauty was a beauty still, in spite
of sickness.

Even Jessie was anxious about the result of this
interview, and entreated Anna to behave well, if
only for the sake of her husband and child.

' I am sure it is more incumbent upon me to
look well. He never, in my best days, cared for

anything but my looks. Now, if the dressing-room
is ready, I can be wheeled in, and the grand
Sultan may attend my levee. Jessie ! is it not
strange that my spirits should have returned so
soon ? I hate myself for them ; and yet I am
always thinking of those children of mine in
heaven. 

''Now, dearest Anna, do be composed. Remember,
all must be right against Chatham
comest

This was the surest way of quieting her, and she
allowed herself to be wheeled, in the easy-chair,
into the cheerful dressing-room that had been
prepared for her, without further remark. Both
Uncle Timothy and Jessie remained at her request,
and they awaited the august arrival with such
patience as they could muster. Poor Anna had a
very bright flush on her cheek when the dreaded
step was heard, and would have felt more hopeful
had she looked in the glass at that moment.

Mr. Michelson was duly announced by the housekeeper.
The first thing Anna saw was a splendid
bouquet of flowers, the very last and best that the
greenhouse afforded. This little touch of gallantry,
and the slight, not-to-be-overcome difficulty hi
walking that Anna perceived in her old admirer,
quite upset her. There was first a hysterical laugh,

which ended in very decided tears. Perhaps, had
she tried her utmost powers of pleasing, she would
not have managed so well. Mr. Michelson took
her hand, laid the bouquet by her on the little
table, and sat down on the chair placed for him by
her side. Both were silent for a little time. Anna
spoke first, and with difficulty ; her voice was still
low. She raised her tearful eyes to Mr. Michelson,
and saw before her an old man, quite changed from
the admirer of years gone by. As is usual in such
cases, it was a decided commonplace that broke
the spell of that awkward silence.

Wliat beautiful flowers ! They remind me of
India. How very kind of you ! '

Anna took the bouquet, and played with it fora
moment.

You are better, I hopes' said Mr. Michelson.
"I came to say that you will oblige me by remaining
here till  till  " he could not bring out the words,
my son's returns' that were on his lips.

'' I will do as you wish'' said Anna. ' You
have been very good to me. I did not deserve it.
I am very sorry  "

Mr. Michelson had never in his life expressed
himself sorry for anything; perhaps had rarely
before felt sorry ; so it was not to be expected that
he should begin now. Anna, on the contrary

had always been sinning, and declaring herself
"sorry afterwards; so the effort cost her little,
when once the right spring was touched.

Uncle Timothy came to the rescue.

You must excuse me, Mr. Michelson, for saying
that I am afraid my niece will not be able to converse
just at presents

Anna had suddenly turned very pale, and Mr.
Michelson perceived it.

I will come again by-and-by, he said, rising ;
we must not exhaust her, I see."

Again he took her hand, and bending over her,
left the room.

Anna began to cry very heartily, and so the
awful interview ended.

It was singular that the least excitement acted as
forcibly on Mr. Michelson as on Anna. No sooner
did he reach the library, than he had another
attack of giddiness and spasm. Mr. Barnard was
called down, and was some time in restoring him.
The same wandering of mind as before succeeded the
attack, and he was very feeble for some hours.
Mr. Barnard grew seriously alarmed about him,
and wished him to send for his own physician, or
to go and consult him ; but Mr. Michelson was so
well satisfied with Uncle Timothy, that he would
not consent.

The following morning Uncle James brought
Tiny in his phaeton to replace Jessie for a few days,
who found it absolutely necessary to be at Fairfield,
to see after matters there. Moreover she required
rest : she was very nearly worn out with anxiety
and watching.

Jessie found everything as well as could be expected
at Fairfield. Louisa was awaiting her with
great anxiety, and it was quite refreshing to receive
the hearty kiss of affection from that joyous,
hopeful friend, after the weeks of pain she had
gone through. They had not met before since
Jessie returned from London, and there was much
to talk over. Captain Burford, Nelson, Mr. and
Mrs. Barnard, and Mrs. Colville, also came to see
her ; and she felt almost angry with herself for being
so light-hearted that first evening at home, when
she had left Anna in such an uncertain state, and
Mr. Michelson looking so wretched.

But how could she help being happy? When
the party from the Grange had driven off,  they
left early on account of Mrs. Condole,  the good
Captain insisted on teaching the pretty widow
cribbage, for whom he declared such an affection,
that he had some idea of asking her to be his
partner for life. Nelson and Jessie were, by this
manoeuvre of the ever-watchful parent, thrown

together, and they had a conversation that did
both of them a great deal of good. They were
surprised at the change and improvement in their
respective minds. They had read and thought much
during the last ten years, and they found that
their course of reading and thinking had not been
dissimilar. Nelson wondered where and how Jessie
had gained so much general information, and how
she had acquired such an insight into literature ;
and Jessie wondered how Nelson had found time
to study, when he had been engaged in active service.
In short, the Captain was very nearly upsetting
the cribbage board once or twice, in his fidgety
delight at seeing them both so happy. The time
came when he could stand it no longer ; so shuffling
up the cards, and fussing about a little, he took to his
pipe, and seated himself in his accustomed corner,
opposite his beloved ones. This, of course, put an
effectual stop to their conversation, which became
general.

Well ! ' said the Captain, " if it were not for
my bald head, which I have just most unfortunately
felt, I should fancy myself twenty years
younger. TJiat is just how those two children used
to be, when we were all happy together in ' auld
lang syne. I say, Jessie, sing us  Auld lang syne.
By the way. Nelson, Jessie can accompany herself

now quite well : you have no idea trow accomplished
she is becomes

She will never want a trumpeter, Captain Burford,
as long as you are near hers said Louisa;
and when you are not in the way, I will do my
best to blow a loud blast in her behalf'

I suppose we should all do that' said Nelson
quietly.

 It is very evident my trumpeter is never likely
to be out of town, if you go on at that rate'' said
Jessie, blushing. ' Do you really wish  Auld langsyne'
? "

Do I ever ask for a song if I don't wish it,
you jade?"

Jessie sang the beautiful old ballad very sweetly.
Nelson drew his chair still nearer to hers and the
Captain winked, very improperly, at Louisa.

And now for my old friend, ' The Cottage by
the Lime-tree,' " said Nelson, " if you have not
forgotten it."

Jessie sang that also.

Meanwhile, the candle on the little cribbage-table
burnt out, and there was no light but the
splendid blaze from the logs on the hearth. All
objected to another candle, it was so snug and
pleasant without one.

When the song was over, there was a short silence:

everybody seemed to be recalling that
Christmas when Jessie sang the song years ago.
Nelson in particular, looked into the fire, as if he
were seeking visions of the past or future.

I tell you what it is, children's at last burst
forth the Captain, " I can stand this no longer :
 Yes or  No I must have. Although I am an
old man, my feelings are stronger than yours at
this very days'

Here Louisa fancied that something extraordinary
must be coming, and hastened out of the
room.

You neednH run away. Ma'am ; we are all
friends here. By Jove, she is gone, and I have
not a soul to back me. Not so fast. Miss Jessie,
you are not going away. Now, here you are, face
to face, and I'll have an answer : ' For better, for
worse V or you will never come to an understandings


'My dear Father!"

My dear Captain Burford, pray let me go''

The deuce a bit !  I beg your pardon  the
dickens a bit ! which is best? Do you two jackanapes
mean to get married, or do you not ?"

Father, this is too bad ; I must insist  "

Captain Burford, I will not  "

'' Nelson, I must insist ; Jessie, I will. Now

sit down, and listen to me. I know what has been
in your minds all your lives, and what is there
now. Jessie, tell me frankly, do you think Nelson
is one bit the worse, or deserves a good wife one
bit the less, because he has lost his right arm in
honourable fight?"

Pray let me go. Captain Burford."

Answer me first."

No, certainly not."

Very good. Now, Nelson, do you think Jessie
is unfit for the wife of a gentleman and an officer,
because she was never at a finishing-school, 
never had language-masters,  and was never considered
what people call accomplished?"

You know, Sir, that my opinion of Jessie is
so high, that if I expressed it before her she would
think I was complimenting her."

' Very well. You perceive. Nelson, that your
objection of the sone arm is not valid; and you
perceive, Jessie, that yours of the  lack of accomplishments
etc. is not more so. Are" there any
others? No, God knows there are none, either
in your hearts or in circumstances; and I know
it, and you know it. Therefore, knowing it, let
us be brave and say it; and let me have the
happiness, before I die, of fulfilling my promise
made at your births, and of seeing accomplished

the desire of half a lifetime. Give me your
hands

Almost Unconsciously the hands were clasped.

God bless you !  God bless you ! Oh, what
an old fool I am ! Now I shall dance the Sailor's
Hornpipe to the tune of ' All the same a hundred
years hence.' Nos Jessie you are not to leave the
room ; stay and settle it, and call me a meddling
old match-making coxcomb if you will. There,
give me a kiss. Shake hands. Nelson : don't abuse
your father; I vow you have a scolding on your
tongue ! " and half-laughing, half-prying, he went
out of the room.

Nelson and Jessie were alone, and something
must be said. Was there ever so awkward a predicament
? Jessie actually burst out laughing ; it
was unromantic, but she could not help it.

Your father is too absurd. Nelson."

My dear Jessie, will you say that 'certainly
not' again?"

What ! as regards the arm ? Yes, of course
I will."

And would you  could you  think of a poor,
crippled fellow like me, and make him happy for
life?"

Nelson ! do you mean it ?"

Ay, well you may ask. I know I do not deserve

you;  but  but  in spite of everything, I
have always loved you best/

Me ! I am old and I have grey hairs,  and I
am not good enough or clever enough for you."

''Oh, Jessie, do not make me quite ashamed
of myself. Look at me ! war-worn, world-worn,
really grey-headed, and deprived of the best half
of myself  my right arm."

Well," said Jessie, tearfully but joyously, '' I
can at least supply that right arm."

And you will forgive the past ? All my childish,
fickle folly,  all my ingratitude,  all my want
of feeling,  all  all  "

You asked me the other day to return to the
time when you first went to India : I have done so.
Cannot you do the same?"

'* I can  I do ; but, Jessie, did you love me
then?"

Have we not always loved one another ? I
have never changed, since we were little children."
Ah, Nelson ! what a pang those few innocent
words have sent through your heart ! Never
changed ! What years of friendship, nay, he must
believe, of pure, true love, has he thrown away !
How has her heart been torn and tried by him !
and that heart, he knows, and has always known,
is the steadiest and truest that ever beat. But

now they are to return to their boyhood and girlhood,
and to ignore all those middle years : she
wishes it, and he will try ; but he can never cease
to reproach himself. It seems such a dream to
Jessie, that she, whilst Nelson is thinking these
thoughts, puts her hands before her eyes, and tries
to make it real ; with the reality gentle tears come
unbidden ; and when Nelson draws away the hands,
and looks into her face, the red firelight gleams
into two pure, honest eyes, that are not ashamed
of being all the brighter for their tears.

' Shall we go to my father, dearest Jessie?'
said Nelson. " He deserves you, if I do not ; he,
like you, has never changed."

Will you fetch him  I would rather."

Nelson found his father discoursing with Louisa
in the parlour, by a wretched, low fire.

Will you come to Jessie ? "

"Is all right?"

"I hope so!"

Then well 'sing old rows and burn the bellows,'
by jingo ! Come along, Mrs. Egerton ; you
wil be glad, and so will everybody else. But you
don't deserve her. Sir ; I shall always say that. I
feel my rheumatism suddenly better, and could
dance the hornpipe like a middy."

So saying, the Captain, arm-in-arm with Louisa,

flourished into the hall. He embraced Jessie, and
then Louisa embraced her ; and then they all four
sat round the fire, and the Captain sang out lustily,
"We won't go home till morning ; and truly
morning it was when they separated.

CHAPTER XLV.

To give thee being I lent
Out of my side to thee, nearest my heart,
Substantial life, to have thee by my side
Henceforth an individual solace dear ;
Part of my soul, I seek thee, and thee claim,
My other half" Milton.

Pynsent Burton was sitting at his solitary breakfasts
with a ponderous volume on one side of him
pen, ink, and paper on the other, and tea and toast
in front, when the postman s knock was heard, and
amongst other letters the following was received
by him : 

My dearest Brother,
I must begin by preparing you for a very great
surprise. If I have been astonished myself, what
will you be ? Our good guardian and friend has
at last managed to bring about what he has been
so long aiming at. You must guess what, for I
can scarcely venture to tell you,  it seems such a
dream. Yet I suppose I must. Well, it is, that
Nelson and your unworthy sister are actually engaged

to be married, supposing always that you
consent. I do not know what you will think of
this, after what happened years ago; but I feel
sure, strange as it seems, that Nelson is perfectly
sincere in his love for me, and that I am really
more to him now than Anna, or any one else.
You have so long read into my weak heart, that I
need not tell you of my own feelings. I can only
thank you for your brotherly love and protection
in forbearing ever to taunt me with my weakness,
and in shielding it from the gaze of others. I
scarcely know how I have won, for I certainly have
not deserved, the love of so many dear friends.
All rejoice in my happiness, and your approval is
alone wanting to make it complete. You will remember
that I agreed with you when you were so
flattering as to say I should never marry,  that I
would be an old maid, for your sake. I see the
smile on your lips, as you say, ' Very easy, as long
as there was no temptations I will still hold to
my promise if you wish it. You are now my only
care. We were to live and die unmarried, for ourselves,
Fairfield, and the younger ones. Rather
than that you should live a lonely or unhappy life,
I would give up Nelson, and go and be your housekeeper
in Duke-street. But I have some hopes
for you. As regards Fairfield, we have lived single

VOL. III. N

long enough, and worked hard enough to free it
from the long-standing mortgage, and it is now an
improved and improving place. You must take toit
as the eldest son, and then it will go on, as our
poor father wished, in the family, and under the
same name. As to the younger ones, Anna is
married, and, thank God, likely to be happy and
prosperous, if she recovers, which Uncle Timothy
now believes she will. Charles and Tiny are sure
to do well in their profession. It is beautiful to
see the perfect unanimity of tastes, pursuits, and
dispositions that they evince. If this is what people
call the artist's temperaments I could almost
wish all the world were artists. I have long since
renounced my prudent fears about them, and feel
sure that together they could struggle through any
amount of difficulty; alone, each would faU. To
work for one another seems the great object of
each, and to gain a reputation that might be reflected
on the other the only wish. If ever a marriage
was made in heaven, it was surely theirs. I
should be perfectly happy if I could see you so
married. Talking of marriage, Louisa told me the
other day that when she got to India her parents
expected her to marry. She had no desire herself
to do so, but she was literally talked into it. She
accordingly chose the man of highest military rank.

most advanced age, gravest manners, and best reputation
that proposed for her. She judged all the
young officers as you used to judge school-girls;
and took a mortal aversion to any one under forty.
She added, gravely, that she was as happy with her
husband as she should have been with her father,
and treated him much in the same manner. She has
your wig carefully put by in a box. She has left off
widows caps, and looks as young as ever, with her
nice, bright hair. She certainly is a very taking
person. But I am digressing. We have provided
for Anna and Charles. Peter, I suppose, is wedded,
like the Doge of Venice, to the ocean. When
will he come back ? I begin to fear that he must
have lost all affection for us. Little Chatham,
my last charge, will naturally live with his parents.
I shall be very sorry to give him up : he is just
like my own child. As to the uncles and aunt,
they are very well off. Our honoured relatives at
the Grange are another pattern couple : I am
more and more astonished at them every time I
see them ; turtle-doves are nothing to them. Uncle
Timothy shall always live with me : I would make
that a proviso if I were going to marry an emperor.
Tiny has been writing, and re writing, at
his dictation, all his deep medical notes, of which
he is going to make a selection for publication.

N 2

It has been a great amusement to him and her
patience is untiring. Of course her gratitude and
love to him are very deep. If we could only
find out who she is , her Present would be quite
unclouded.

Thus, I think, we have gone through all the
members of our family, of which you and I were
left, some twenty years ago, the heads. How
time flies !  yet I do not feel as old now as I did
then. There must be something wild in my nature
: I am sometimes ashamed of myself for being
so childish. After this review, we ought to pause,
and thank the Almighty Giver of all good things
for having so mercifully led us through the temptations
of the world to this present hour, and kept
us from all very great misery and fearful iniquity.
We have proved that God keeps His promise of
being  the Father of the fatherless If I have
said anything foolish in this letter, overlook it, for
you know one is not mistress of oneself in times
of great joy or excitement. I believe Nelson intends
writing to you : he is so exactly the Nelson
of childish days again, in his kindness, truth, an
affection, that I believe the past must be a dream.
Charles is gone off on a sketching expedition.
INIr. Michelson wished him to stay at the Hall,
but he thought there were enough Burtonss there

already. He will have weeping skies to sketch.
I must leave our dear Captain to your imagination
: no one could portray all his extravagances
just at present. I shall not be quite satisfied with
myself until I hear from you. I am afraid I am
selfish. God bless you , my own dear brother !
Love from all. Your devoted sister,

Jessie Burton."

Pynsent put down the letter, and wiped a thick
film from his eyes. "Thank God, all is as it
should be at last !" he muttered. He remained a
short time in deep thought, then selected the following
epistle from amongst the other unopened
letters : 

My dear Pynsent,
If you have read Jessicass letter, you know all,
and that I am the most fortunate fellow in the
world. It is not often that I go into ecstasies,
but I am really the happiest creature breathing.
There has been an unnatural weight on my mind
for the last ten or twelve years that is suddenly
removed, and the air seems lighter than it has
been since my boyhood. Night is turned into
day. You need not say, ' He doesnH deserve it,'
for I know it well ; but I suppose there is a period
in every one's life when he is under a spell, and

sees everything through a wrong medium : I have
passed through mine, and, happily, am clearer-sighted
than ever. I see in Jessie, what every one
who knows her has always seen, the woman of all
others in the world to make a man happy  the
purest, truest, and finest work of the Creator. I
dare say I shall get into rhapsodies, but never
mind. One thing I must say, that I hope you,
like Jessie, will wash out of your memory all my
follies ; I allude to them to you for the first and
last time. My love for Anna was an infatuation.
I cannot now understand how a man of my grave
temperament could have been absorbed by it ; but
we must allow that she had an irresistible fascination.
In my heart of hearts Jessicass pure image
lay enshrined the whole time : you may believe
it or not, but so it was. I knew that I was sinning
against her, against my father, and against myself,
although I tried to believe that ours had been only
a childish attachment. When I got back to India,
and had time to reflect, I found that I had deceived
myself, and every one belonging to me ;
but I no longer flattered myself with the hope of
Jessie ; so I put her, Anna, and all other ladies,
out of my head, and took to my profession as a
mistress. She has deprived me of my right arm,
but, by dismissing me from her service, has given

me a far better. You know enough of me to be
assured that whatever my indecision of character
I could not tell a lie. Believe me, then, that your
sister is now all in all to me, and that I hope to
prove to her my gratitude for her unselfish acceptance
of a broken-down soldier by a whole life
of love and care. Will you, now, restore to me
the old friendship ? You do not know, you cannot
tell, how I have felt your estrangement. You
tried not to show it, but I was well assured that
you were changed, and I deserved it. Write tome
soon, and say that you will sanction with one
sister what I know you disapproved with another 
a marriage that your father and mine settled atour
respective births. Does it not seem strange
that nearly forty years have passed since that day ?
more than half a life ! How little they foresaw
all that would happen before the event took place.
My father, at seventy-five, is likely to see it consummated.
I believe the germ of romance always
remains in our natures, ready to sprout out whenever
called forth. I am much more sentimental at
this moment than I ever was, and I look into the
glass, and see grey hairs in my whiskers. Jessie
declares she has grey hairs, but I cannot see them :
 Love is blind.' I believe I have written nonsense ;
but this is the first really natural letter that I have

addressed to you for years. My father bids me
tell you that you owe him a wager : you betted
with him years ago, that neither Jessie nor you
would ever marry. I advise you to lose the bet
wholly.

Believe me , my dear Pynsent,

Your true old friend,

N. Bedford."

Again Pynsent put down the letter, and declared
that all was right. For the second time that
odious page came to say that Mrs. Miller had sent
again. Pynsent was obliged to go to his patients.
He came back to a late dinner that he could not
eat, and having sent it away almost untasted, he
sat down to his desk, and during the course of a
long evening and half the night penned four letters,
the contents of two of which we submit to
the reader. We must premise that Pynsent occasionally
tore up a sheet or two of paper in disgust,
and was a very long time buried in the deepest of
reveries between each. He first of all began one
letter, and then he put aside that sheet, and commenced
another; and so his solitary moments sped.

My own dear Sister,
I must disappoint you at once. Your letter
did not surprise me, as I saw how matters were.

or would be, from the moment I saw you and Nelson
together in London. From my heart I rejoice,
because I believe you will make one another
happy : it is as it should be. But I can only give
my consent on one condition, of which more hereafter.
It is a great shock to my powers of discrimination
and prophecy. I always said you would
be an old maid, as I should be an old bachelor. I
like your professing to take me into consideration,
now that you have made up your mind to give me
up to the mercy of any old crone of a housekeeper
that may chance to get hold of me in my old-age.
I quite agree with you in thinking that you, not I,
have brought the property, house, and family of
Fairfield through all their difficulties, and that you
now deserve to have a little peace and rest yourself.
The Almighty judges better for us than we
can for ourselves. whatever is is right : we
find this in the long-run. Had you married Nelson
and gone to India years ago, what would have
become of all the rest of us? Not that I think
Nelson deserves you,  and I shall tell him so. No
man ought ever to think of more than one . . .
excuse my breaking off in that sentence. I suddenly
remembered that we were all fallible, so I
must forgive Nelson, though I can never make an
excuse for Annans conduct to him. All was for

N 3

the best, however ; so I suppose I must forgive her
too. Women are strange enigmas. There is your
friend Louisa, a greater one than all, in spite of
her frank manners. I cannot pretend to misunderstand
your wishes in that quarter. I meant to
punish you ; but I shall only please you in what I
am going to do. No ; I am not quite sure whether
T can venture to take such a leap. But you
are my elder, and I am bound to follow the example
of my elders and betters. In short, it is
impossible for me to remain a solitary after you
have so cruelly broken your word ; so now for the
conditions on which you have my consent to get
married. You must provide a suitable housekeeper
for me. I find I am getting a rich man; my profession
is increasing, and I am given to understand
that I am to be made surgeon to a certain hospital
; so I can now make the necessary proposition
without being afraid of bringing the lady to starvation,
or of being kept by her,  a piece of meanness
that I should not like. It is useless beating
about the bush : it must come out ; but you know
how modest I am. In spite of my apparent bear-illness,
I had always a very considerable liking for
your friend Louisa. Oh, I fancy I see you at this
moment ! Now, don't go into fits. Nelson has
heroics enough in his letter for us all. Goodness

gracious ! how lie does lard you over ! Well I
think your friend Louisa very * taking as you say
and all that sort of thing, and I want to have your
opinion as to whether she will take the wearer with
the wig. Now it is out, and I have a great mind
to tear up the sheet and shut it up again, for I
have the greatest horror of a refusal. I have some
intention of enclosing a letter to her, and one to
her ' honoured mothers to you  to be given at your
discretion. You see, I could never possibly propose
face to face : I should either go into hysterics, or
burst out laughing, or fairly break down in the
middle. In writing, I should just be able to say,
Madam, will you have me? and then rest on my
oars till an answer came. I have not yet written
those fatal words ; but if you should find herewith
a letter addressed to that most dangerous of all
animals, ' a bidder,' you may take it for granted
they are therein inscribed. But enough of this.
If I succeed, you and I will be married on the
same day, and we will pull the old house down
with jollification ; if I do not, why, you are bound
to remain a spinster, for my sake ! What will Nelson
say to this ? God bless you ! Love to all.
Your ever affectionate Brother,

Pynsent."

My dear Nelson,
I am not sure that I shall let you have Jessie.

She is too good for you, or for any man but

but me, in short. I always intended to end my
days at Fairfield with her, and I do not see what
right you have to interfere between us. You write
a great deal of humbug (excuse the term) . I was
never estranged from you. I always loved you;
but I felt that you were not acting up to your
principles, or for your happiness, and therefore I
could not be quite as open with you as I wished.
Now we shall be brothers again  more really so
than ever. I find there is one point on which I
can pique myself  I have never been drawn into
the folly of love-rodomontade. I will keep your
letter, and show it you in ten years time. I wonder
what you and Jessie will think of it then ! You
have a sentimental, I a matter-of-fact nature ; still
we were born to be a David and Jonathan. I
quite believe that you never told a lie in your life ;
your father's son could not have told one. God
bless him ! he is a true man. If there were more
like him, there would be less palaver and deceit in
the world. A little more honest bluntness would
mend mankind. We have a sprinkling of it in
our family : Uncle James has it ; and Jessie is as
open as the day. I hope you admire Jessie's eyes ;

now I really do think them worth a sonnet. They
always remind me of heaven, so true and clear.
When / get soft, it is about my sister. Every
blessing attend you both ! all sorts of little Cupids
and hearts and inexpressible Valentines be around
you ! By the way, you always used to write the
best Valentines. Jessie's letter is most characteristic.
For your comfort, I must assure you that
she seems quite satisfied with you; but self, as
usual, is secondary. She goes through her family
and, having found that most of them are provided
for, thinks that she may venture to provide for
herself. She has a feeling for me, however, which
you (men are always selfish !) never entertained.
She does not like to leave me to single blessedness
; but marriage is a fearful leap !

I am sure I have said enough about it for
one letter; so recommending you to take care of
Jessie if you do not want your head knocked off
by your father, or a bullet sent through you by
your affectionate brother, I am,
My dear Nel,

Your faithful friend,

'P. Burton'

Having read Pynsent's letters, we may be allowed
to put into language some of the thoughts

that rush through his mind as he throws himself
back in his chair and half shuts his eyes.

Von revient toujours a ses premiers amours
was a sentiment I once learnt. I wonder whether
anybody in the world knows who his first love
was? Yes, I believe Jessie does. Everybody else
seems to have had a hundred, ever since they were
children. I think I was in love once, when I was
a boy. Then came the other two. Disgusting !
But I believe I liked Louisa the best ; at all events,
she is the most suited to me. But I do not believe
she cares a straw for me. She is always making
fun of me, and cutting up all my odd, old-fashioned
ways. I know that if I were quite sure of her I
would propose at once. Then why not try ? It
seems so absurd to begin this sort of thing, when I
have so resolutely kept out of it for so many years.
Still I should be dull and unhappy without her,
and even felt jealous when Uncle James told me
that that coxcomb Uttered had been making inquiries
about her. Had I not better wait till Anna
is well ? No ; if I do not do it now that Jessie
has set me the example, I shall never do it. Let
me be honest. Am I really in love? Could I
keep all those formidable promises in the marriage
service ? Yes. Well ! nothing venture, nothing
have : so here goes ! '

With a desperate effort Pynsent seated himself
again at his desk. He was at least half an hour
beginning ; but when he did begin his pen flowed
so swiftly that there seemed no end to his letter.
He will not permit any one to repeat that letter ;
he would tear it up directly if he thought we
should do so therefore we refrain. It was signed
and sealed about one o clock in the morning. Then
followed a short and concise epistle to Mrs. Colville.
When this was finished he arose with a
sigh of great relief, and walked round the room.
Finally, he made a large packet of the three letters
to the three ladies, and directed it to Jessie,
enclosing Nelson's in an envelope by itself.

CHAPTER XLVI,

Woman all exceeds
In ardent sanctitude and pious deeds ;
And chief in woman charities prevail
That soothe when sorrows or disease assail."  Baebet.

Mr. Michelson continued some time indisposed,
and unable to pay Anna any further visits. He
was obliged to keep his room for some weeks,
where he was constantly visited by Mr. Barnard
and little Chatham. It was evident to his kind
doctor that his health was breaking up, and that
any violent shocks on his nervous system might
bring on paralysis. He was very excitable and
irritable, and appeared anxious for the return of
his son, although he did not often speak of him.
Mr. Barnard, as was his custom, tried to bring religious
subjects into conversation, but with no very
great success. The idea of death was one that Mr.
Michelson had never entertained in health, and he
seemed still less to like it in sickness.

It was strange that when Tiny arrived at the
Hall in place of Jessie, he ordered a certain room

to be unlocked and prepared for her, that had not
been used since the departure of Miss Rutherford.
It is impossible to define what was in his mind, ashe
sat ruminating this arrangement. He always
looked upon Tiny and her picture as the counterparts
of Miss Rutherford, and, as such, he had now
a dread of seeing either, because they brought on
a degree of palpitation that he could not account
for ; still he chose her to inhabit that apartment.

Tiny and a servant slept alternately in Annans
room, so it was not until the second night after
her arrival that Tiny took possession of this long-closed
chamber. There was a comfortable fire,
and everything looked as bright and cheerful as if
it had been always tenanted, instead of so long
unused ; but it had undergone regular cleaning
and airings,  only the housekeeper was ordered
to keep the key. Mr. Michelsons servants had
changed so often, that it was now scarcely known
why that particular room was closed ; and various
reports of ghosts were afloat concerning it.

Tiny had put on her white dressing-gown, and
let down her long hair, looking very much like
Charleses Cordelia, before she thought of examining
her bed-chamber. When she did look around her,
she was struck with the inhabited air it had; it
was as if it had suddenly lost an inmate. There

were a great many books,  some on a chiffonier,
some on a small bookcase. There were also various
ornaments, of great beauty and taste; chimney vases,
and a selection of china and articles of virtu on a
small table. The toilet was also covered with boxes
and bottles, such as a lady of a certain fortune and
standing might be supposed to require. A writing-table,
with all its necessary appointments, stood in
the middle of the room, and, above all, there were
a variety of portraits, and water-colour drawings,
some in frames, and others pinned against the wall.
The wardrobe and drawers were locked, and a chest
of drawers seemed to have been put into the room
in addition to the usual furniture, on Tiny's account.
She looked at the backs of the books, and
found they were chiefly foreign, and at the pictures,
and saw that they were clever sketches of foreign
scenery, apparently Italian. The portraits were
in crayons, and all seemingly by the same hand, 
sketches of dark-eyed, dark-haired, Italian-looking
people.

This had been evidently a lady's apartment.
Could it have been tie Lady Catherine Michelson's?
and were the reports, still afloat, of Mr. Michelson's
unkindness to his wife, libels ? Had he preserved
intact that apartment for love of her who was no
more ? Tiny took down one or two of the books :

there was a beautiful little edition of Dante, on the
fly-leaf of which was written, " To Sophia, from a
Friend ;" a copy of ' II Pastor Fido with the words
"Alia mia Filia" written in it. Some of the
books were German, some French; some had no
name written in them ; others, again, were inscribed
To Sophy, in the same hand as the Dante.
At last. Tiny took down an old copy of Tasso, in
which she found 'sophia Rutherford, from her
beloved Mothers Why does she so suddenly start,
and then look again so intently on the writing ?
Because that word " Sophia ' and the general character
of the writing are so remarkably like the same
word and the writing, in that torn scrap of paper,
supposed to be written by her own mother. Tiny
unlocks her little dressing-case, and takes out that
well-known pocket-book that she never leaves behind
her, go where she will : the torn note is in
it, and with trembling hand she carries it to the
writing-table, and sits down in order to compare
each letter, now brown with time, with those of
the Tasso. Had the words " Sophia ' been written
by the same hand, they could not have been
more alike ; in short, the whole of the broken sentences
bore a remarkable resemblance to the " from
her beloved Mother ;' and Tiny wondered how this
might be. She sat for hours pondering over her

short life : some twenty years ago she was born, and
her mother died, leaving no clue to her relations.
All the dates in these books were antecedent to
that period ; she was reckoned so like Miss Rutherford,
that Mr. Michelson was quite affected by
the likeness ; the names were both " Sophia -" Miss
Rutherford had quitted the house suddenly; her
room was evidently just as she had left it. It was
strange !  but too horrible an idea !  too horrible !
Were it real, she could never again show her face
in that family. She took the two rings, the wedding
and the cameo, from their hiding-places in
her bosom, and looking on them, assured herself
that such thoughts were too vile, and could not be.
She had almost ceased to wear that cameo, because
she fancied it must so remind Charles and all his
kind family of the mystery that hung around her ;
that mystery which still darkened her otherwise
bright life. She would wear the cameo again, and
see if it attracted attention. She tried to put the
thoughts that crowded on her away, but she could
not, and she passed a wretched night, wondering,
when awake, what and who Miss Rutherford was ;
and dreaming, if she slumbered a few moments,
strange dreams of Mr. Michelson.

The following morning she found Anna very
weak, and full of apprehensions about her recovery.

" Christmas is nearly here, and I shall not
be well enough to go homes she said. " Tiny, I
used to tease you very much ; have you forgiven
me?

My dear Anna, I have nothing but gratitude
towards you all. Poor, forsaken, doomed  '

Tiny, do not talk so, or I must send for Jessie.
Pray forget that old story."

"Anna, do you remember Miss Rutherford?"

What an odd question !  yes, a little."

"What was she like?"

I believe she was handsome."

Why did she leave this house ?"

Oh, I forget. I fancy Mr. Michelson sent her
away. She was only a kind of housekeeper; he
was very fond of her, and often talks of her."

How long ago was it?"

My dear child, I forget,  twenty years, I suppose
; only I really cannot own to remembering
twenty years."

A servant knocked at the door.

My master s compliments, and wishes to know
how Mrs. Michelson and Mrs. Charles Burton are
today. He is very sorry that he is not well enough
to see them."

Tinys heart beat quickly as she answered the
message. She longed to go and ask about Miss

Rutherford ; but for worlds she would not allow
the strange suspicions that would come into her
own mind to transpire. She knew what Anna would
feels  what indeed, all the family must feel, connected
as they were with Mr. Michelson, if there
were any foundation for her fancies.

So she kept pondering over her likeness to Miss
Rutherford, and comparing those two signatures,
until she half believed she was her mother, and
that some strange fatality had brought her into
the house where she had lived. The indications of
genius and a refined mind that she found in the
apartment, made her love Miss Rutherford, and
wonder what she was like  where born  how educated
 why dependent,  until she was bewildered
with wondering. When Charles came to see her,
and take her home in the place of Jessie, he thought
her looking ill, and from her manner believed that
something must have distressed her. She persisted
in declaring herself well, and in burying her
thoughts and suspicions in her own bosom. She
was resolved to do her best to discover whether
there were any relation between herself and Miss
Rutherford,  but never, never to bring disgrace
upon the family of the Burtonss.

The meeting between Jessie and Anna was almost
awkward, particularly on the part of the latter.

She had been apprised of her sisters engagement
with Nelson, and scarcely knew how to congratulate
her, feeling that she had been the cause of
their long disunion ; but Jessie put her at her ease
by saying at once 

It is all right, dearest Anna ; all as it should
be. I could never have gone to India, and a long
engagement would have harassed me to death. 

Then she quickly changed the conversation by
informing Anna of the double wonder  the actual
proposal of their determined bachelor-brother,

Anna was all curiosity and excitement, laughing
and clapping her hands like a child.

You should have seen Louisa ! When I put
the letter into her hands, I said, according to
your reply to this, is to be my destiny j and I have
promised to renounce Nelson if you refuse the proposal
herein made. I tried to look grave, but she
fancied there was some joke underneath, and began
turning the letter round. ' It is your brother's
writing,' she said, blushing very suspiciously ;  he
has written for his wig ! Now I have it. He said
he would do so, but I did not believe him. I will
send it to him in a bottle of spirits-of-wine, as a
medical curiosity.' 'Do,' said I, but just read
the letter whilst I go upstairs.' I went, and sat
fidgeting for some time, feeling just as I did when

I left you and Chatham together years ago, and
praying that the interview with the silent letter
might not reduce Louisa to the state I saw you in.
By-and-by my door opened, and in came Louisa,
half laughing, half crying, holding the letter in
her hand. She shook her head at me in her archway,
and said I was very sly. Then she went to
look out of the window, and I went behind her,
and whispered in great affright, ' Am I to give up
Nelson She turned round and kissed me, and
said she believed it was all a hoax ; Pynsent could
not care for her ; he was too matter-of-fact to have
written that letter. *sam I to give up Nelson?' I
repeated. ' Not if I can help it, certainly,' she
said ; but what do you mean?' I told her that I
had promised Pynsent to be single as long as he
was. ' Anything in the world for your sake,' cried
Louisa. And then it came out by degrees that she
had liked Pynsent better than any one else ever
since her first visit to Fairfield, and that she certainly
never thought that he cared for her. You
know I am not an enthusiastic person ; but if there
is one human being more than another that I get
into the clouds about, it is Pynsent; and Louisa
quite satisfied me in all that she said of him. She
understands and appreciates him, so I think they
will be happy. I sent the note to Mrs. Colville,

and a very proper letter came from her to Louisa,
giving her consent ; so I suppose it is all settled,
except the settlements."

' How very stupid!" was Annans first exclamation
when Jessie had concluded her history.

That is satisfactory, at least," said Jessie,
laughing.

Oh, I am really charmed beyond measure, my
dear Jessie. I always thought Louisa was in love
with Pynsent, and could have half eaten him for
not proposing when she was with us first, but  "

'' But, Anna, surely you appreciate Pynsent s
honour !"

Of course I do ; only I like a little sentiment ;
and a proposal just coming in the right way, and
in exactly the right place, is so stupid. Now, there
is some satisfaction in you and Nelson, because
there is romance in the whole affair ; but Pynsent
is so painfully straightforward. But I must not
forget the Sultan; he wishes to see you. I feel
convinced he will cut out Nelson  he is much more
captivating ; and then you will prove to a demonstration
the truth of our old nurses predictions tome,
' Beauty is but skin-deep. Miss Anna. You'll
see, one of these days, that Miss Burton will cut
out all your beauty by her goodness.' ' A Roland
for an Oliver,' my own Jessie. But pray go to the

VOL. III. o

Mogul ; what can he have done all this time without
a lady to wait on him?

Jessie went to Mr. Michelson. She thought
him looking very ill , as she entered a small sitting-rooms
and saw him in an easy-chair. He rose with
difficulty to receive her, and spoke with a slight
hesitation, but much precision.

I am very glad to see you, Miss Burton; I
have quite missed your kind attention. Your
uncle has betrayed to me a family secret, and I
must be allowed to congratulate you on an event
that has lately occurred, which will be for your
happiness 

Jessie blushed, and thanked him.

Colonel Burford will be a happy man ; I assure
you, I envy him.

Jessie began to think of Anna's predictions, and
to feel uncomfortable.

'' You must not flatter me, Mr. Michelson, or I
shall feel quite out of my element."

I would not wish to spoil you. Miss Burton,
so we will think of something else. I requested
the favour of this visit, to propose a plan to you
that I have been maturing. I feel sure that my
son will return by Christmas-day, as his regiment
must have been now some time on its way home.
You know that we have not been on good terms.

I hate scenes, and one would be my death. I am
anxious that you and all your family should eat
your Christmas dinner here, and that when my
son returns, he should find that we are all reconciled,
by seeing us all together, and thus avoid disagreeable
explanations. I say this to you, because
you are sensible, and will understand me ; there is
no one else I would speak so openly to. I hope
you do not disapprove my plan V

''Not at all,  it is very kind. But we have
spent our Christmas at Fairfield from time immemorial,
and I scarcely know whether all our family
would consent to go elsewhere.

You allude to your aunt : I have had my
doubts of her. She has the pride of all the Caesar
in her nature. She was a splendid woman : I should
have married her if I had not gone abroad ; but
that is such an old story. I will write notes to all
your family, and to the Burfords, father and son,
and we will have a regular reunion : I shall enjoy
it. 1 am so blase with what is called society, that
I think I shall begin to settle down into a family
man. I wish you were not engaged. Miss Burton."

Jessie looked at the wreck before her with astonishment,
and wondered how he could think of
anything but death ; but he was dressed and got
up as if he were still young and healthy.

o 2

Shall I get you your writing materials Mr.
Michelson?" said Jessie "and we will do the
thing at once."

Ah ! I see you are a woman of business. You
must not trouble  allow me  let me ring."

Jessie quietly put the portfolio and pen and ink
before him. She would rather have spent 
at her dear Fairfield a hundred times
over; but she saw at once that if Chatham returned
, as she felt sure he would, Mr. Michelsons
plan would be the very best to smooth down all
asperities,, and to put father and son, and indeed all
the family, on a comfortable footing. Mr. Michelson
wrote most unexceptionable notes of invitation,
and passed them over to Jessie for approval.

"Nothing could be better," she said to each;
and truly no one could manage such matters better
than Mr. Michelson, when he chose to do so.

He omitted no one, wording his note to each ashe
conceived would be most agreeable to the receiver.
Uncle James, Pynsent, Captain Burford
and Nelson, Mrs. Colville and her daughter, Charles
and Tiny, and even Uncle Timothy and Anna,
though they were both in the house, had each a
regular invitation for Christmas Eve and 
; and Jessie almost expected one written
to herself there and then.

"Does your sister ever hear from Plas Ayron
now ?" suddenly asked Mr. Michelson.

Oh jess frequently replied Jessie ; " she had
a letter from Lady Georgiana the other day."

The Countess died some years ago I believe ?"

Oh yes, soon after Major Michelson went to
India."

"And did she really give them five hundred
a year before she died ?"

Yes, she was very unworldly."

Mr. Michelson sighed.

I should like  " he began, then paused. " Does
Lady Georgiana Meredith know that your sister
and her child are here ?"

Yes, Anna has given her all particulars."

"What did she say?"

"That she was very glad to have such good
news, and prayed that all might end in the perfect
reconciliation of yourself and son."

Ah ! she was a good woman, I believe ; too
good, in fact. Would it be possible to get her and
her daughters here for Christmas ?"

Jessie started with astonishment. Mr. lichel-
sons mind seemed wandering in his excess of hospitality.


The season  short notice," murmured Jessie.

"I should like to be reconciled to the Lady

Georgiana : I feel quite anxious. I can say this
to you, because you are so good. I was not all
that I might have been to her sister, Chatham's
mother, who was a good wife to me. Will you
ask your sister what she thinks of it? A real
family party at Christmas must be a very pleasant
affair : I should like it''

Jessie went to consult with Anna.

Charming ! delightful !" were Anna's exclamations.
" Only fancy Chatham returning and finding
us all assembled here, he knowing nothing
about it. It is quite like a novel ! I declare the
Mogul is appearing in a new light. Aunt Betsey
won't come, that is certain. We will write to
Lady Georgiana all particulars, and if the Mogul
writes a kind of penitentiary psalm, she is so good
and forgiving, that I should not wonder if she put
it on the principle of Christian duty, and came.
It would be perfect ! We should have quite a
dramatic entertainment : fathers and grandfathers,
and uncles and great-uncles, and affianced brides
and bridegrooms,  all making a regular family
piece, and coming in for the last act of the drama."

' Well ! if they all take the invitation as agreeably
as you do, there will be no difficulty," said
Jessie.

"After all, I may not be strong enough to

enjoy the entertainments said Anna with a sigh
sand it would be nothing without the penitent
black sheep."

You must not excite yourself so much, dearest
child's said Jessie, kissing her sister.

"Now go and tell the Great Sultan that 1
wholly approve, and will write myself to Lady
Georgiana," said Anna.

Jessie went, meditating on the propriety of such
a letter. Mr. Michelson was awaiting her impatiently,
and was highly delighted to find that Anna
approved his scheme. All the letters were duly
despatched, some by private messengers, others by
post ; and Mr. Michelson seemed in better spirits
than he had been for some time, and paid his
daughter-in-law a visit, on the strength of them.

In the evening there arrived notes in answer to
some of the invitations. As was expected, Uncle
James politely declined the invitation, in a missive
evidently dictated by Aunt Betsey.

"That aunt of yours is the very goddess of
pride," said Mr. Michelson. " I should certainly

have married her, but I wonder she took your

uncle after all ; they were not suited."

She must come," said Anna. " I will write a
pathetic note myself"

And forthwith Anna wrote an appeal, working

upon Aunt Betseyss feelings in every possible way :
representing her own uncertain health  the troubles
she had gone through  the blessing of peace
amongst relations  the hope of the return of
Chatham  the failing condition of Mr. Michelson
and above all, his continued admiration of Aunt
Betsey,  until nothing short of a heart of stone
could resist. With a certain degree of childish
imbecility, Mr. Michelson set his heart on her
coming, and wrote another note, offering to send
his carriage for her and Mrs. Colville. Jessie
could not but perceive what her uncle feared and
foretold, that the great man of taste and learning
was gradually sinking into a state of imbecility,
and that a few more attacks of his enemy would
complete his prostration of intellect.

If we follow the messenger to the Grange, we
shall witness a characteristic scene there, on the
arrival of the second note :  Aunt Betsey by the
fire, with Uncle James by her side, and Mrs. Colville
on the sofa. Aunt Betsey takes her eye-glass
(nothing can induce her to wear spectacles), and
begins Anna's appeal. She reads with difficulty,
for the writing is feeble. There is no visible emotion
for some time. At last the mouth evinces
sundry twitching, and a little nervous cough succeeds.
By-and-by the handkerchief is applied to

the nose, and finally drawn across the eyes, and
something like a little sob is heard.

Bless my stars ! what is the matter, my dear ?'
says Uncle James.

 Nothing. Pray be calm. Anna is so absurd !
she will have us at the Hall for Christmas-day."

Poor Anna ! poor child ! And heres another
note from the Squire. I little thought the time
would come that should bring Farmer Barnard  "

' My dear Mr. Barnard, how you talk ! We are
quite as good  "

 The Burtonss, my dear, but not the Barnard.
Well, what do you say now, my dear? My stars
and garters! I don't see how we can refuse again."

What do you say, Mrs. Colville ? I have communicated
to you all the circumstances," said
Aunt Betsey, passing the notes. " My soul revolts
against partaking of that manes hospitality."

Mrs. Colville .read, and expressed her opinion,
that she scarcely saw how two such invitations
could be refused.

"Then I suppose I must stoop for once  for
Anna's sake," said Aunt Betsey, sweeping across
the room, in anything but a stooping attitude.

Uncle James rubbed his hands, exclaiming,
Right, my dear, always right ! " and got the
writing materials.

o3

Mr. and Mrs. Barnard will do themselves the
honour  ''

' Pleasure ' is quite strong enough, Mr. Barnard."


The pleasure of accepting Mr. Michelson's polite"


You need not insert ' polite ; ' invitation' is
quite sufficient. And you can add, but will on
no account give him the trouble of sending his
carriage, though obliged by the intention.' "

Short and sweet, my dear."

Quite enough. Pray, Mr. Barnard, take the
crest : do not seal it with, those vulgar initials."

J. B., James Barnard : nothing vulgar in
that, my dear. However, I am your sarvant, so
give me the unicorn."

This note caused such ridiculous joy at the Hall,
that assuredly Aunt Betsey would have been flattered,
had she seen it. Little Chatham caught
the excitement, and went about the house, singing,
" Uncle James and Aunt Betsey are coming
Christmas day " to an original air, that was more
expressive than musical, though the boy had a fine
voice.

The crowning glory of the whole affair arrived,
in a letter of actual acceptance from the Lady
Georgiana Meredith, who consented to come, with

her two daughters to the Hall on Christmas Eve,
and to remain some days. She said it was a long
journey to make at such a time of the year, but
that, next to her own children, she loved Chatham
and Anna, and rejoiced in their reconciliation with
their father. She knew that were her sister living,
she would wish her to be also on terms with her
husband, who had made such an advance as no
Christian woman could fail to meet half-way : and
so she would come, God willing, and join the
Christmas gathering at Michelson Hall. Her
daughters were delighted at the prospect of seeing
their cousins, and so many new friends, and were
all excitement and preparation.

But what were their excitement and preparation
to what were going on at Michelson Hall ! Mr.
Michelson was resolved to have everything grand
for the occasion, and neither expense nor trouble
was spared to make the anticipated reunion a
cheerful one. Jessie was at the head of every
department, from the floral and vernal decorations
of the house, to the consultations with the housekeeper
upon the accommodation of the guests.
Since the Election ball, so many years ago, no such
preparations had been made ; and Mr. Michelsons
anxiety to do the thing handsomely was so great,
that he sent to London for a first-rate cook, as well

as for all the accessaries of the gastronomic art.
He insisted upon all the members of the Burton
family taking up their abode at his house during
the visit of Lady Georgiana and her daughters ;
and poor old Fairfield was to be left empty, to
Dinah and Willis great disgust, for the first Christmas
in the memory of man. Jessie did not however
forget her humble friends. She ordered plenty
of roast-beef and plum-pudding for the workpeople
and their families, and gave Dinah full permission
to make merry on Christmas Eve as well : still
that faithful servant , though important, was not
pleased.

CHAPTER XLVII.

And such is human life ; so gliding on,
It glimmers like a meteor, and is gone!
Yet is the tale, brief though it be, and strange,
As full, methinks, of wild and wondrous change
As any that the wandering tribes require,
Stretch'd in the desert round their evening fire ;
As any, sung of old, in hall or bower.
To minstrel harps at midnight's witching hour ! "

EOGEES.

The important Christmas Eve dawned upon
Michelson Hall. The whole household was in a
state of bustle and excitement. Fires blazed in
every room, below stairs and above. The hall and
dining-room were ornamented with wreaths of holly
and ivy, and the drawing-room and library with
every rare greenhouse plant that could be procured.
Mr. Michelson stalked majestically through every
apartment, followed by little Chatham, singing and
dancing with delight. He rubbed his hands with
evident satisfaction, and seemed in excellent spirits
and improved health. Jessie was here, there, and
everywhere  surprised at herself for having gone
through so much in a strange house, and heartily

wishing all was over. Anna had been brought downstairs,
and was ensconced in that identical little inner
room between the drawing-room and conservatory,
in which Mr. Michelson had made his proposal,
years ago. This little room was filled with the
very choicest works of art and virtii, and the
rarest furniture that the world could afford. Uncle
Timothy was also here. The whole of that day,
poor Anna's heart beat so quickly, that she knew
not how she bore up, hour after hour. She kept
herself forcibly still, and seemed outwardly composed;
but Jessie saw the restless eye, changing
colour, and excited air, and dreaded the result. By-and-by
Mr. Michelson joined her, and little Chatham
sat at her feet, and tried to read aloud to her ;
but every breath of air seemed to each the rattle of
a carriage-wheel, and kept up a state of feverish
excitement amongst them. Anna reclined, amid
rose-coloured cushions, in a carved chair of ebony,
and was in herself a picture, with her beautiful
child at her feet. Dressed in deep mourning, you
saw that some heavy grief and sickness had passed
over, without destroying her great loveliness. The
dark hair, that she had so rashly cut off when she
had heard of her husband's death, was beginning
to grow again, and stole out from beneath the
simple invalid's cap in short wavy curls. We need

scarcely describe the fitful animation of the dark
eyes, or the hectic flush of the pale thin cheek.
They still made the good mile fear consumption,
and convinced him that she would be always, more
or less, an invalid.

On the opposite side of the fire, with a book in
his hand, professing to read, but not reading, sat
Mr. Michelson, gazing at Anna and her boy, and
thinking, perhaps, as so many do when too late, of
happiness thrown away. He was dressed in the
extreme of propriety, and, like his daughter-in-law,
was trying to be outwardly calm, whilst his heart
was throbbing almost audibly.

Uncle Timothy, with a face as serene as his pure
unruffled mind, sat with his hand over his eyes,
and silently prayed for all.

It was four o'clock, and the last rays of the
winter sun were looking enviously through the
window upon the huge fire that blazed within, and
threw a red glare on the anxious faces, reflected on
all sides by the cheerful rose-coloured hangings and
gorgeous ornaments. At last there was a sharp
loud ring at the bell, that, echoing through every
part of the large house, struck into every heart.

"It is Lady Georgians' said Mr. Michelson,
rising suddenly, then sitting down again, with a
strong effort to be calm.

There was a great rushing of feet in the hall
and an evident commotion. A servant put his
head into the room, said remiss Burton/ and as
suddenly disappeared; soon after, Jessie came in,
looking greatly agitated.

Mr. Michelson  Anna  he is  he is  "

Poor Jessie was a bad dissembler.

Chatham ! ' exclaimed Anna, rising and attempting
to pass Jessie, but staggering as she did
so.

She would have fallen, but two beloved and protecting
arms supported her. She was clasped in
her husband's arms. She did not faint in that
long, fond embrace, but a flood of tears relieved her.

Meanwhile Mr. Michelson sat immovable. Pride
was struggling with feeling. His son must come
to him first.

Anna freed herself, at last, from her husbands
arms, and pointed to his father, behind whose chair
they stood. Chatham went to him.

"Father !'' was all he could say, whilst tears
rolled down his cheek.

The father arose, and, for the first time in their
lives, he and his son folded the arms of love and
peace around each other. It was an affecting sight.
Anna buried her head in her cushions, and sobbed
aloud. Her uncle wept over her. Little Chatham,

awed and silent, crept up to his grandfather's side,
and seemed to wait until his turn should come.

"You have forgiven me, my father?" at last
murmured Chatham; but the old man could not
answer. This was one of the few times in his life
that he had really felt, and words would not come.

Grandpa !" whispered little Chatham.

Instantly the boy was in his grandfather's arms,
aod transferred from them to his father's.

'"My boy ! my only one !" cried the father, sitting
down by his wife, and bursting into an agony
of tears.

Even in such a reunion, there was cloud amid the
sunshine.

Jessie had written a letter to him, to meet him at
the inn, telling him to come straight to his father's,
and at the same time informing him of the death
of his child. He had had no news from home
since that event.

Oh ! he had so loved that little Anna, now gone
from him for ever.

But he felt obliged to rouse himself, for the sake
of his wife and father. And when they all became
more composed, there was fresh grief for him in the
midst of his joy ;  his wife the shadow of what
he had last seen her, his father a very wreck.
Alas ! the gay, light-hearted, thoughtless Chatham

is sobered for ever now. He sees and feels as he
has never seen and felt before, the instability of all
earthly things ; and as he again takes his wife to
his heart, for the first time in his paternal home,
he knows that their happiness has been overshadowed,
and that death and suffering have been
at work between them.

Thus it is ever, as life flows on. Our most joyous
meetings are saddened by the visions of partings
that have been; our most mirthful hours are
darkened by the remembrance of others, as mirthful,
passed with those who are dead or far away ; and
our purest happiness overshadowed by recollections
of trials past, and anticipations of certain future
sorrows, that remind us of the brief tenure of all
earthly things, and the certainty that this world is
not our home.

And where is Jessie during this affecting scene ?
she who is always first to assist and comfort, in
all hours of joy and sorrow ? She is actually, in
her turn, hanging on the neck and pressed in the
arms of some unknown gentleman, in Mr. Michelsonss
library. Highly improper. Mistress Jessie !
You, engaged to a grave Colonel, of becoming
years, to be laughing and crying, kissing and embracing
a handsome young man, that your friends
would not know ! And such a handsome young

man ! We have had our good-looking man in this
history. Chatham has been our hero for good
looks, undoubtedly. But he cannot compare with
this black eyed, black-haired, very brown-faced,
laughing, tall, somewhat carelessly attired hero.
Oh, Jessie ! Jessie ! And you let him kiss you
again and again !

I declare I should have known you, Jessie ! I
suppose you are older ! Yes, you really are twenty
years older. I ought to be ashamed of having
been so long away. Nobody will know me. What
sport ! Don't tell them who I am, but make a
kind of introduction. Major Michelson would
have me come with him. T got three years' leave
directly, and here I am''

And you never wrote, and never came home
all these years ! You cannot have cared for us."
Jessie's eyes filled with tears as she said this.

Not cared for you ! I should have written,
and come home too, fifty times, only just as I was
on the eve of doing it, something prevented me."

Of course we all know it is Peter, so there needs
no explanation.

But I tell you what, Jessie, I don't like coming
first to this grand place. Fairfield for me ! I hate
old Michelson  I always did ; and here we are,
fraternizing and bamboozling, as if we were kith
and kin."

' So we are. For Chatham's and Annans sake,
we must smooth everything."

I don't mean to stay here. I am under no
obligation, and I would not stoop to the Queen.
I shall go to Fairfield."

"With Dinah?"

Yes, it would be great fun : I mean to give all
the people a feast in honour of my return."

Not tomorrow : they have their dinner tomorrow."


I wish I had mine now, I am as hungry as a
cabin-boy. Cannot I see Anna?"

"We must wait till the first excitement is
over."

If I could make up my mind to stay, Chatham
and I had a plan. He was to introduce meat
Fairfield as his intimate friend, and see who
would find me out."

Here the door opened, and Mr. Michelson and
Chatham appeared.

"This is my friend Mr. Buxton, father," said
Chatham.

I am glad to see you : any friend of my son's
is welcome here. Miss Burton, I am much obliged
to you for entertaining this gentleman. You are
always considerate. You will not object to a small
bachelor's room, I hope, Mr. Buxton?"

Sir, you are very good  I  I  " stammered
Peter.

'' Come with me ! " slid Chatham, taking him
by the button-hole. "You must make yourself
presentable, and then we will have some dinners

Jessie ran upstairs, and indicated a room prepared
for Pynsent, whither Chatham took Peter.

A handsome young man, but with awkward
manners  said Mr. Michelson, as he returned to
the inner room.

Another ring at the bell, and soon after Lady
Georgiana and her daughters were in the hall.
Chatham rushed down to welcome them first, and
to take off the awkwardness of the meeting with
his father.

My dear Aunt ! this is good ! this is like you,
and only you. Father, here are my aunt and
cousin's

Mr. Michelson came into the hall to receive
them, and they all shook hands. He looked pale,
and Lady Georgiana agitated, but the meeting
with Anna and little Chatham soon restored equanimity.


It is impossible that you can be my cousins,
Rose and Violet V said Chatham, walking gravely
round the two graceful girls, that were children at
his wedding. " Anna, we are getting old, or else

these are not our cousins and this is not our
child's

Indeed I am, Papa f and I shall be a man
soon, Dinah says so'

Jessie came to greet and be greeted, and finally
to take the travellers to their rooms. Uncle Timothy
had made his escape into the drawing-room.


Fresh arrivals ! Charles and Tiny, Pynsent and
Louisa. Strange to say, Pynsent had arranged to
travel all night, and to spend that day at Fairfield.
The ladies went at once upstairs's.

They all managed to assemble in the large 
by seven o'clock, with the exception of
Anna, who was to remain quiet until the evening.
Tiny came in under Jessie's wing, looking whiter
than the simple white dress she wore. Mr. Michelson
scarcely dared to look at her, she affected
him so strangely ; and she was nervously pressing
that ancient cameo beneath her glove, and wondering
what right she had in that family party of
good and well-known parentage. She was introduced
to the strangers, who had previously been
looking at her portrait in Cordelia.

Captain Burford and Nelson were announced ;
shortly after, Mr. and Mrs. Barnard, and Mrs.
Colville.

All the previous arrivals were really as nothing
compared to Anne Betsey s. She swept into the
room in her black velvet dress like a princess.
Mr. Michelsons bow and her curtsey were worth
seeing. The simple Lady Georgiana and her rr*o-
test daughters quite shrank beneath the overpowering
magnificence of the introduction. Hers
was the old school, but it was unquestionably the
grand one. She sailed into a chair, and glanced
around her haughtily; but when she saw how altered
Mr. Michelson was, her eyes rested with real complacence
upon her handsome, portly husband : she
never admired him so much before.

Dinner was announced. Mr. Michelson knew
how to manage such things, and every one was
paired to perfection. The fiances fell together
quite naturally; and, considering the awkwardness
of the meeting of so many estranged people, the
dinner went off capitally. It was first-rate, and
Mr. Michelson played the host well, aided by
Chatham, when memory, as it sometimes would,
failed him.

Tiny and Peter were the only uncomfortable
guests. The former thought of nothing but herring,
and was at last made so wretched by fancying
that Mr. Michelson might recognize it before
all that company, that her courage failed her, and

she drew it oflP, and hid it in her glove. She
looked so ill and nervous, that every one pitied
hers and Charles felt quite unhappy. As to Peter
he would have got on famously with Rose and
Violet, one on each side of him, but he chanced to
have Pynsent opposite, who did nothing but look
at him. Louisa declared that Pynsent had not a
word to say to her, and threatened to complain to
Jessie.

I beg your pardon, but I cannot help looking
at that gentleman opposites' said Pynsent ; " I am
sure I have seen him before, but cannot remember
where. His laugh reminds me of some one also."

' He is very like Anna," said Louisa.

Peter said something about the sea to his pretty
neighbour, which caught Captain Burford's ear,
on the other side.

You are a sailor, like myself, I fancy," said
the Captain.

Yes, I am one of the jolly tars of Old England,"
was the reply.

' I must shake hands with you after dinner,"
said the Captain heartily.

As he spoke loud, all eyes were drawn upon
Peter ; and Uncle James indulged in such a stare,
that Aunt Betsey was obliged to address him, to
distract his attention.

Did you ever chance to fall in with a navvy of
mine  Lieutenant Burton of the ' Bonne Temperance
? asked Uncle James across the table.

" Yes  no  not exactly said Peter.

The ladies were just leaving the dinner-table.

1 dare say you never did/-* roared Uncle James
rising abruptly and almost pulling the dessert off
the table. He did upset two glasses of wine, and
overturned a pyramid of oranges. " I dare say you
never did; and you are not that very identical
navvy, I suppose, that used to be the torment of
my life?"

Here Uncle James reached Peter ; and, as was
his wont, greeted him with a heavy slap upon the
back, and then shook hands with him tiU he nearly
wrung the hand off. " You young rascal ! you
didn't deceive me long. I knew the wicked eyes,
and the father s voice !"

There was a great confusion. All the friends
crowded round Peter, shaking hands by turns, asking
questions, and making the dining-room resound
with laughter and delight.

We have forgotten to say that Jessie waylaid
Nelson and Louisa, and let them into the secret,
so they greeted Peter as Mr. Buxton, an Indian
acquaintance.

Even Aunt Betsey forgot her dignity, and actus

III. p

ally embraced her favourite nephew before all the
company.

This is a new sisters said Pynsent, leading
the shrinking Tiny up to Peter.

"I suppose I must not kiss her in public?"
whispered Peter, taking her hand ; " but it is only
a pleasure in reserve. I want to know, Charles,
what right you had to marry before me. I am
the only genuine bachelor in the family. Uncle
James, who would have supposed that you could
have deserted the brotherhood ? "

Haw ! haw ! haw !  too proud, New, too
proud."

 My dear Mr. Barnard !" from Aunt Betsey.
Mr. Michelson, we must really apologize for this
scene," she added, grandly approaching her former
admirer.

Mr. Michelson," broke in Peter, ' it was not
my fault. I beg your pardon for causing such an
uproar, but Chatham would have it so. Where
is he ? That is too bad ; he has left me to bear all
the odium of getting np a scene by myself."

Allow me to shake hands with yon," said Mr.
Michelson, " and welcome yon home. I remember
you would not come near me when I saw you last."

I was always a rebellious fellow," said Peter,
blushing at the remembrance of his pride.

Jessie was crying, and Lady Georgiana felt her
eyes sympathetically* moist, as she and Nelson
stood on each side of her. The young ladies were
looking with pleased countenances from one to the
other of the happy family.

"Where are my children ? said Mr. Michelson.


Tiny involuntarily pressed the ring, and turned
paler than before. Alas ! poor Tiny !  the only
anxious heart in all that joyous party.

Here we are, Grandpa !  cried little Chatham,
throwing open the door to admit his father,
who was wheeling Anna into the room in her chair
of state, accompanied by Uncle Timothy, who had
declined dining with the party upon plea of his
imperfect sight. Tiny was at Uncle Timothy side
in a moment, to lead him, if necessary, and to find
certain refuge in his fatherly love.

"This excitement will kill Annas whispered
Pynsent to Louisa, as the brother and sister met ;
and Peter hung over her chair, and kissed her.

And you are my uncle ? and I stayed up to see
you ; Papa said so ! ' broke in little Chatham.

I thank God for being allowed to see this days'
said Uncle Timothy emphatically, pressing Peter's
hand. "All is unity and peace, and not one of
you is lost''

p 2

Tiny clung to Uncle Timotliy's arm. It was
strange that she felt at home with no one else that
day not even with her husband : she could look
no one else in the face, she had such an awful
secret on her heart.

Now I must propose that the ladies all sit
down again, and that we return to the ancient
custom of drinking healths, even in their presence
said Mr. Michelson ; " Lady Georgiana,
Mrs. Barnard, will you consent?"

Both ladies smiled approval in their different
ways, and Mr. Michelson proposed the healths of
the Indian wanderers by sea and land. Lieutenant
Burton, and his own son ; adding, in a trembling
voice, " a hearty welcome home." In spite of
Mrs. Barnardss look of severe reproof. Uncle James
began a regular "Hip, hip, hip, hurrah!" which
Captain Burford took up, and the rest echoed right
merrily. It was so infectious, that the servants
rushed out of their own provinces into the hall,
and gave a cheer for Major Michelson, their future
lord and master. Could such a thing be in
that refined mansion ? Truly yes, and healths continued
to be drunk, and speeches made, until everyone
present had been well toasted, and roasted too.

Chatham made a very touching little speech, in
which he alluded to the mingled cup of extreme

happiness and sorrow that he had tasted that day ;
the joy of meeting all he loved best in the world,
under his father's roof; and the hope that he
should he a wiser and a better man for the future.

There were not many dry eyes in the room whilst
he spoke, and Peter's mirthful voice and joyous
manner were very necessary to restore anything
like gaiety. He declared that he had suddenly
stumbled upon a party of relations so considerable,
that he scarcely knew where the relationship began
or ended ; the more especially, as those who were
not now actually his connections were about to
admit him to that honour ; therefore he proposed
the healths of all affianced lovers, whether in 
or Timbuctoo.

Jessie and Louisa blushed very much. Captain
Burford looked at Nelson, Uncle James looked at
Pynsent ; but neither seemed much inclined to return
thanks.

May I be permitted to couple ' the Army' with
the toast ?" said Captain Burford ;  love and glory
always go together.'

Nelson was no longer backward in returning
thanks : he managed to get through the united
toast with honour, winding up with a compliment
to the ladies, and touching on the happiness of the
man who was in the condition mentioned by the

Lieutenant. He proposed the health of their host,
after which they had " The Navy' for Captain
Burford, "The Faculty' for Pynsent, and "Success
to the Arts' for Charles. And so the dinner
ended merrily, and the ladies at last found
themselves in the drawing room, whither the gentlemen
were not long in following them.

I had no idea of the pleasures of a family gathering,"
said Mr. Michelson to Jessie ; " I shall
hope to have them frequently henceforth''

Poor man ! just as he was on the brink of the
other life, he began to feel what was the purest
happiness in this.

This day of excitement came to an end, like
other days. Mr. and Mrs. Barnard and Mrs. Colville,
and Captain Burford and his son, left early,
with a promise of returning to a six o'clock dinner
on the morrow. The rest of the company retired
for the night, with varied, and many with agitated,
feelings.

Jessie had much difficulty in keeping Anna from
a fit of hysterics, when they had retired to their
room; but she succeeded in getting her to bed,
and resolutely refused admittance to all but Present,
who, with a grave countenance, recommended
perfect quiet. As to Chatham, the outburst of his
feelings, when he was, for the first time, alone, was

dreadful : he had kept them down with desperate
force during the evening, in the fear of annoying
his father, and disturbing the harmony of the wonderful
party he had met; but when alone, they
fairly gave way. He had returned to find his beloved
child in her grave, and his wife apparently
recovering from the very jaws of death,  if, indeed,
she were recovering. The reconciliation with
his father had been so unexpected, that the surprise
had been almost more than he could bear ;
and the shock of seeing that father so changed,
was very great. He walked his room in agony,
until at last a violent burst of tears relieved him.
He had scarcely time to think of Nelson. A
meeting with him, that at any other period would
have seemed the most painful thing in the world,
had been secondary  a mere matter of course. In
the confusion. Nelson had held out his hand, and
he had grasped it, literally forgetful of the past.
His feelings, at last, became too overpowering for
endurance. Pynsent slept in the next room, and
he resolved to go to him, and hear the real history
of the past three or four months. He went and
aroused Pynsent, who was alarmed by his agitation,
and very long in quieting it. He told him
everything : of Annans voyage home, and Nelson's
kindness,  of his child's death, and his wife's rupturing

a bloodless, and being brought to his father's
house,  of the reconciliation through these
singular coincidences,  of Nelson's engagement
with Jessie,  and of his hopes that, with care,
Anna would recover. He succeeded in checking
Chatham's extreme emotion by degrees, but did
not succeed in preventing his self-reproaches.

Pynsent, I have been useless and selfish all
my life ! I have been of no good to any one. I
have not deserved to find my father restored tome,
and my friends true, or to be spared for this
day. I have been careless of others, and I deserve
punishment. Oh ! I have had it ! That child
was the apple of my eye. Oh, Pynsent ! help me,
teach me to be a better man."

' My dear Chatham, God has dealt mercifully
with us all : we shall all be happy."

You will, for you deserve it. How different
was your conduct to mine ! You might have married
as I did ; you might have squandered as I did.
But you are happy in a good conscience ; I have
never known real happiness."

You will learn to seek it by-and-by where
alone it can be found  you and Anna together.
You have years before you, and much to do in
them. And now, my good fellow, compose yourself,
and go to bed ; remember, we cannot have

more invalids ; I vow I will not come christening
to be made a doctor of  I have enongli of
that in towns

But one thing more : I must not be wholly
taken up with my own griefs. What do you all
mean to do ?  where to live ?  Ashen to be 


How can you ask such questions of a modest
man ! I am to live in London, of course, and to
modernize the house in Duke-street, and to make
my fortune,  and to be very miserable, as most
married men are, according to Avhat I remark. Between
ourselves I am not quite sure that a bachelor
life is not the best ; but then I was compelled

to marry, on Jessicass account. Ah ! well done !

I am so glad to see the old smile ! As to Nelson
and Jessie, they are old-fashioned enough to wish
to play at Darby and Joan for life at Fairfield.
Jessie cannot leave Fairfield, so they are to build,
and improve, and make quite a grand place of it.
Uncle Timothy is to live with them ; and Mrs.
Colville, thank my lucky stars ! is so delighted with
Aunt Betsey, and Aunt Betsey with Mrs. Colville,
that she is to board and lodge at the Grange.
Poor Uncle James ! But there never was a more
willing victim  she is the happiest of the whole
family. He says I am to have the Grange ; so in

p3

the course of years we shall be a colony : you at
the Hall Jessie at Fairfield, and your humble servant
at the Grange. Doubtless Charles and Tiny
will find a painting-room somewhere near, and
Peter a cabins

But when are you going to be married ?

Oh, some time in the spring, when the cowslips
and violets and all that sort of thing grow
in the fields and hedges between Fairfield and the
church, making a natural carpet, and so saving expense
; and when you and Anna are well, and able
to get through two weddings in one day ; in short,
as soon as possible, my good brother. Now, I insist
on your going to bed. You have no pity on a
poor wretch that you awoke from a dream of  of
' oh no, we never mention hers  into this frosty
air. See how I am shivering. Will you promise
to go to bed V

Yes, I promise. God bless you ! You have
done me a world of good  you always do. You
really believe Anna will recover ? '

' Yes, with Gods blessing. Good nights

CHAPTER XLVIII.

Come away : no more of mirth

Is here, or merry-making sound ;
The house was builded of the earth,

And shall fall again to ground."  Tennyson.

The following morning many and joyous were the
Christmas greetings. *A happy Christmas!" resided
through the house and there seemed every
prospect, outwardly, at least, of the wish being fulfilled.
Mr. Michelson was in wonderful spirits, and
appeared to have regained health in the excitement
and importance of his new position of head of the
family. Chatham was calm, and even cheerful, and
devoted himself to his father in a way that astonished
the old man and charmed every one else.
Anna was fatigued with the excitement of the previous
day, and did not, of course, appear at breakfast
; but happiness had its usually beneficial effect
upon her, and she declared herself much better.

Tiny was the one great sufferer, who bore about
with her an anguish that was too much for her
strength.

I am sure you are ill, my dearest Tiny/ said
Charles ; " something troubles you. I thought we
were to have no secrets from each other  but one
heart and one mind ; and yet you will not tell me
what is the matter with you. Shall we go home
to Fairfield and avoid this grandeur and gaiety ? "

Oh no ! oh no ! I like being here; I must be
here. But I feel  oh ! quite well dear Charles,
quite well. I am ungrateful not to be more cheerful,
but I cannot help it."

Charles knew that Tiny always felt the uncertainty
of her parentage more amongst strangers
than at home, and fancied this might distress her
now, so said no more, fearing to increase the pain.

Tiny was dressing for church when this conversation
took place, and shortly after the bells were
heard. Jessie remained at home with Anna, but
all the rest of the party went to church. Mr.
Michelson leant upon his son's arm, and Tiny led
her dear Uncle Timothy.

When the service was over, poor Chatham lingered
a few moments by his child's grave.

Had she not been buried there, wee should not
be side by side now," said Mr. Michelson, with
more of natural feeling than he had ever shown
before. If he was getting childish, his second childhood
was better than his manhood had been.

There was service again in the afternoon. Mr.
Michelson was evidently anxious to set a good example,
and wished to go, so Jessie and Lady Georgians
volunteered to accompany him, as did some
of the others. Chatham remained at home with
Anna, who was again established in her favourite
room ; and Uncle Timothy not feeling very well,
Tiny begged to be allowed to stay and read to
him.

'' Tiny, my dear child, we will go and read in the
library, said Uncle Timothy ; ' and leave Chatham
and Anna to talk of much that they might
not like to mention even before us."

They went accordingly.

"And now. Tiny," said good Uncle Timothy,
"\ have something to say to you. I have remarked
lately that you have seemed unhappy;
your husband, Pynsent, and Jessie have also remarked
it. Surely, if you have anything on your
mind, you could not conceal it from your relations
and friends."

Tiny began to cry. She had never deceived
Uncle Timothy ; she could not now utter even a
word that was not true, to him.

Come here, my child ; sit by my side, and tell
me what afflicts you. I have a right to know it,
and must know it."

I cannot !  oh I cannot I"

"Tiny, I stand in the place of your earthly parent,
and as such I command you to be open with me.
Has any one injured or offended you ? The impression
we all have is, that some one has inadvertently
done something to distress you'

No, no. I have nothing but kindness and
affection from all. I am ungrateful to be so unhappy.
My more than father, I will tell you aU.
But will you promise not to reveal what I tell,
to any one, not even to Charles ?"

There should be no secrets between husband
and wife. I do not like this, I can scarcely promises


I cannot tell you my wretched secret without
the promise : it would bring disgrace on the whole
family."

Tiny, you frighten me. Do not sob so, child.
Well, I promise : tell me all."

Tiny sank down on the hearth-rug, at the good
manes feet, hid her face from him, and began her
story. She unfolded all her suspicions  told him
how she had gathered, from one and another, the
date of Miss Rutherford departure from the Hall;
how that the writing in the books corresponded
exactly with that on the torn note  how that she
had found the donor of one or two of the books to

have been Mr, Michelson by comparing the writing
with some that she had seen of his  and, finally,
how that Mr. Michelson was always troubled in
her presence, and could never look her in the face,
though very kind to her. Then she said that everyone
who had known Miss Rutherford, remarked
her extraordinary likeness to her, and that Mr.
Michelson had evidently, according to Pynsents
account, been so overcome by the Cordeha,
that he had been taken ill at sight of the picture.
She said the curious and rare cameo ring was
just such a one as Mr. Michelson would have purchased,
and she had been vainly trying to place it
in his sight, to see whether it would attract his
attention, and what effect it might have on him.
She wound up with a violent burst of grief, entreating
her kind protector not to name what she
had said, or to bring disgrace upon his family.

Uncle Timothy put his hand upon the head of
the prostrate girl but did not speak for a longtime.
His countenance wore an expression of
great pain and doubt, and it was long before it
cleared. Tinys low sobs alone broke the silence.
At last he said 

"All these circumstances may be only curious
coincidences, and they may be links in the great
chain of Providence : we must not put them aside

without examining them. What we do , we must
do openly. If Mr. Michelson has sinned, his sin
will find him out, but we will be as gentle as we
can to him ; if we sin in suspecting him , on our
heads be the crime of injustice. At all events,
certainty is better than uncertainty and we have
perhaps the means of discovering the truth. I
will show Mr. Michelson the ring, and you can
watch his countenance, and see what effect it has
upon him. If this fail, I will question him more
particularly of Miss Rutherford, and, if necessary,
mention your history. It will be strange if we do
not elicit the truth, if truth is to be elicited. We
must seize the very first opportunity we have
when alone with Mr. Michelson. Perhaps he
may come here after church,  he generally rests
in this room. But we must be very gentle, as I
fear for him. He has not been a good man,  at
least, not a religious man : God forgive me if I am
uncharitable, we are all sinners ; and I pray that
he may not be hurried into eternity unrepentant.
Tiny, are you ready for this great effort? You
must nerve yourself: always remember there was
a wedding-ring with that ring, and that all maybe
well."

Tiny rose slowly from the ground, and threw
her arms round Uncle Timothy's neck.

I think I am ready for all' she whispered.

Then let ns prepare ourselves, by reading some
of the Church prayers and the Psalms and Lessons.
Will you try, my dear ?"

Tiny suppressed her grief, and obeyed as best
she could. By degrees she grew more calm, and
the influence of the solemn Service, and the goodman's
quiet manner, stole into her own soul. Soon
after they had concluded, they heard their friends
come from church. Poor Tiny's heart beat quickly.

Give me the ring, my love. I feel that if I
do not go through with this matter at once, I shall
not do it at all'' said Mr. Barnard.

Tiny gave the ring, and seated herself on a low
seat, almost behind her friend, where she could
see Mr. Michelson, if he came in, without being
particularly remarked. She took a book, and satin
an agony of terror better imagined than described.
She felt that her hour was come.

The door opened, and Mr. Michelson entered.
Mr. Barnard moved, and Tiny half rose.

Oh, do not disturb yourselves," said Mr. Michelson
briskly, "I shall be delighted to have a
quiet hour with you before the dressing-bell rings."

He was evidently in good health and spirits,
and walked across the room,' and sat down in his
armchair more easily than he had done of late.

"Mr. Barnard I have much to thank you
for; you have understood my case, you have
done me good' he said, rubbing his hands by the
fire.

Happiness has done more for you than I have
done. Cheerful society and domestic pleasures are
the best physicians' replied Uncle Timothy.

Tiny looked at Mr. Michelson, and found that
his eyes were fixed on her, as she sat half-hidden
in the firelight : they were quickly withdrawn.

"You are right  right' hastily repeated Mr.
Michelson ; " I hope to have these doctors in future."


' We have been examining a curious ring' said
Mr. Barnard tremulously.

Oh ! how Tiny started, and how pitiably fast her
heart beat, as she, in her turn, fixed her eyes on
him she believed to be the arbiter of her fate !

It is a cameo : you are versed in such things,"
continued Uncle Timothy. "Perhaps you will
give me your opinion upon it ?"

"With pleasure," said Mr. Michelson, stretching
out his hand and taking the ring.

Mr. Michelson stooped towards the fire to examine
the ring, for the day was waning fast. The
ring dropped from his hand upon the hearth.

Where did you get that ring ?" he cried, suddenly

grasping the elbow of his chair convulsively ;
'' it was  it was  tell me for Gods sake !"

It was my mother's V shrieked Tiny, rising
and confronting Mr. Michelson with a resolution
that she had not believed herself possessed of.

sand who  who  who was she?" stammered
Mr. Michelson.

"You know  you must tell me," she said
boldly, as if inspired, fixing her large eyes upon
those of the trembling man. " She died twenty
years ago, when T was born ; her name was Sophia;
she had this ring and a wedding-ring next
her heart. She wore a large Indian shawl. She had
hair like mine ; she was  she was  "

She was my wife ! and you are  O God !"

Here Mr. Michelson fell on his knees before
the trembling and excited girl, and clasped his
hands.

Your daughter ! " she shrieked, and would
have fallen, had not Mr. Barnard supported her.

She recovered herself, however, and endeavoured
to raise the kneeling father she had found, but
could not. His hands clasped, his eyes fixed on
her, he seemed paralyzed. At that moment Chatham
came into the room.

Do not be alarmed : help him to rise  something
has occurred  do not ring," said Mr. Barnard,


Pardon  pardon  Sophia !  muttered Mr.
Michelson.

Tiny threw her arms round his neck, and kissed
him.

Rise, for my sake' she cried, endeavouring to
assist him.

She on one side, and Chatham on the other,
managed to place him in his chair, whilst Mr.
Barnard went out, called loudly for Jessie, and
went with her in search of medicine.

She is  she is  my Sophia  my wife  my
daughter  your sister," muttered Mr. Michelson
at intervals, trying to bring together the
hands of the brother and sister, who each held one
of his.

"Jessie, send Pynsent here," said Uncle Timothy,
as they again reached the library door, " and tell
every one that Mr. Michelson is suddenly taken ill ;
but you had better let the dinner and everything
go on as usual. Just put the candle and glass on
the table, but take no further notice."

Jessie did as she was desired, and was about to
hurry from the room, when Mr. Michelson became
conscious she was there, and tried to speak.

Miss  Miss  Jess  she is my wife  my Sophia."


Uncle Timothy gave Tiny the medicine, from

whose hand Mr. Michelson took it readily. Jessie
went in search of Pynsent who soon came.

I think it will pass off/ he said, as he felt the
pulse.

This is  my daughter  my wife  Sophia 
Cordelia  " again began Mr. Michelson, looking
at the astonished Pynsent, and pointing to Tiny.

What is the matter  what can it be ?" asked
the alarmed Chatham. ' What does he mean ?"

It is an affection of the heart," said Pynsent ;
but his pulse is better."

"Is he dying?" whispered Tiny, as the eyes
closed, and a deadly paleness overspread the face.

Dying !  I  I  am very  well," gasped the
patient, attempting to rise. " Where is  my wife
my Sophia?"

So firm was his grasp of Tiny's hand, that she
could not disengage it for a moment. As the
medicine took effect, and the violent spasm at his
heart abated, he sank into a kind of torpor ; but
still he held the hand. Tiny was obliged to sit
down at his feet, whilst the others arranged his
pillows, and drew out the sofa part of his easy-chair,
and endeavoured to make him comfortable.

He remained in this state for about two or three
hours, during which time dinner was served, and the
rest of the party went through a somewhat constrained

and uneasy repast. Chatham, at Mr. Timothy
Barnardss request, took his father's place at
table, and Mr. Timothy Barnard, Charles, and Tiny,
alone remained with Mr. Michelson. Tiny had requested
Uncle Timothy to tell her husband of the
scene that had taken place, and he was resolved
not to leave her under such circumstances.

Thus Tiny sat on a low stool at her newly-found
father s side, watching his oppressed breathing,
and wondering if he would ever open his eyes and
speak again. His features were so pale and convulsed
that she fancied he was dying, and all
Uncle Timothy assurances were necessary to convince
her that there was, at least, no immediate
danger : the worst was over for the present. She
prayed earnestly that her father might not betaken
from her before he had learned to love her,
and she had shown him that she desired to love
and care for him,  before he had disclosed the
secret of her birth, and proved the truth of the
broken words he had uttered concerning her and
her mother. Those were hours of mortal agony
for the poor daughter, and scarcely Jess so for her
husband, who tried by whispered words of affection
to soothe her troubled spirit.

At last Mr. Michelsons eyes unclosed, and
rested at once upon Tiny.

'' Sophia ! " was his first word, " you are there ;"
and he pressed Tiny's hand tightly.

He moved a little, and perceived Charles, who
appeared to awaken his mind to some other subject.


Ah, those pictures ! That Cordelia was my
daughter  your wife. You were generous to marry
an unknown girl  but all the Burtonss are generously


He was evidently regaining his intellect, and the
watchers listened attentively. Uncle Timothy drew
near to feel his pulse.

That other draught, Charles's he said.

Charles got it, and gave it to Tiny, from whom
Mr. Michelson at once took it.

Mr. Barnard, you are very good  too good 
better than I deserve. You have been a father to
my Sophia : yes, her name is Sophia. My mind
is clear now, and I am better. My child, can you
forgive me ? I loved your mother,  yes, I loved
her ; and you will love me for her sake."

Tiny embraced her father, and her tears fell
upon his face.

"Now, Mr. Barnard, tell me how and where
you found this child and her mother."

Mr. Barnard related the story of Tinys birth,
and her mother's death.

"Will you call Chatham'' cried Mr. Michelson,
 " my son ? Good God ! what a sinner T have
been ! I shall never be forgiven  never. I have
killed my wife  alienated my son  renounced my
child. I must make what reparation I can. Bring
them all here  all  all  quick ! Go, Sir, bring
them all !  aunts, uncles, brothers, friends  all
who know this child, and have given her the love
and protection that I refused her. Do not hesitate,
Chatham : I can bear it now. Let all who are
in the next room come here; bring your wife
also : every one must acknowledge her."

Uncle Timothy signed to Chatham to obey his
father, who was in a state of great excitement.
The worthy doctor knew that it was possible for
the desire to do justice to decrease as the sudden
excitement decreased, and he was anxious to have
all made clear whilst the inclination lasted.

The library was soon filled with wondering guests,
who grouped themselves in different parts of the
room, some sitting, some standing, as most convenient.
Anna was placed near the fire, opposite
her father-in-law and Tiny; and Chatham again
stationed himself at the side of his father, leaning
one arm on the back of his chair, and standing.
Charles stood behind Tiny's low seat, as if to sustain
her, and she hung her head low  very low 

to hide the tears and agitation of her countenance.
Aunt Betsey held a prominent position rather in
the foreground in a large red-leather chair Jessie
standing by her side, in the hope of suppressing
any sudden outburst of pride or passion that might
arise at Mr. Michelsons narrative. The sailor,
true to himself and his profession, managed to
place himself beside the pretty Violet ; whilst the
Lady Georgiana, the young widow, and Rose were
surrounded by Captain Burford, Nelson, Mr. James
Barnard, and Pynsent. All awaited Mr. michelson
s pleasure with breathless attention.

That gentleman endeavoured to rise somewhat
from his partially recumbent position, but was unable
to do so. A heavy frown passed over his face
at this loss of power. Chatham assisted him, and,
arranging the pillows, managed to place him nearly
upright.

Let me face them all,' he said ; " I am not
ashamed of a daughter so beautiful and so gifted."

Chatham moved the chair a little, so that it was
sideways to the fire, and allowed Mr. Michelson to
command the whole room. He passed his hand over
his forehead, and then looked resolutely around,
as if to see that aU whom he wanted were present.
Appearing satisfied, he began as follows, in an excited
\)ut perfectly steady voice : 

VOL. III. Q

' I did not expect that a Christmas-day, so much
desired by me, would end thus. I hope you will
all kindly excuse my not being able to appear at
the dinner table ; I was overcome by an extraordinary
event that you shall hear. Lady Georgiana,
you will pardon my referring to the past ; I do it
to repair a wrong.

' About four-and-twenty years ago, your sister,
ray wife, was taken ill. We were in Italy, and I
did not very well know how to provide suitable attendance
for her. The English physician recommended
a companion, and said that he knew a
young lady who wanted such a situation. As Lady
Catherine was consumptive, she was ordered to remain
abroad, and I therefore proposed to her this
plan. She was always gentle, and easily persuaded
to what was for her good, and accordingly consented
to be introduced to the young lady recommended
to her. She was pleased with her manners
and appearance, and at once engaged her as
companion.

' Miss Rutherford was the daughter of an English
gentleman of respectability, a half-pay officer,
who had married an Italian lady, and resided and
died in Italy. He left his wife and daughter dependent
upon the small pension of a Lieutenants
widow. The daughter determined to assist her

mother, and support herself, and accordingly became
companion to my wife. She was highly accomplished,
and very beautiful, and I  I admired
her exceedingly ; no one could avoid doing so who
was devoted to beauty, as I have always been. She
was very attentive to Lady Catherine, who became
much attached to her.

Lady Catherine lingered on for some time in a
very weak state, and at last died. I must confess
here, with sorrow, that I was never a kind husband
to her, although she was a faithful wife to me. She
had all that she could desire, except my love,  may
God forgive me ! I loved Miss Rutherford, and
did all I could secretly to win her affections; I
believe I succeeded. I certainly made her very
wretched, for she was good and well-principled, and
attached to my wife, and none know but myself
what she suffered secretly. I fear Lady Catherine
suspected our attachment, for on her death-bed she
told Miss Rutherford that she forgave her, if she
had wronged her. I now see, for the first time in
my life, the selfishness and wickedness of my own
conduct. Hitherto I have lived for myself and

the gratification of my passions ; if but this is

not to the purpose.

In one month after Lady Catherine's death, I
was privately married to Miss Rutherford. I made

q2

her believe that I could not, for a time, declare our
marriage, and that, at all events, it would be impossible
to do so until a twelvemonth after my
wife's death, as the world would consider it indecorous.
In about six or seven months from that
time, imperative business, and the necessity of getting
money, called me into Somersetshire : Sophia
would not remain behind, so, taking leave of her
mother, she accompanied me to England, ostensibly
to manage my household. We remained a
short time in this house, during which period she
became every day more and more anxious that I
should publicly acknowledge her as my wife. We
had many quarrels, and she saw that the suspicion
of the servants was aroused : she was a woman of
a most excitable temper, and one evening we had a
furious dispute. She declared that if I woidd not
at once avow our marriage, or return with her to
Italy, she would herself go to her mother, confess
all, and live with her, until I chose to come and
fetch her, and receive her openly as my wife; I
was in a great passion, and refused to do either,
little imagining that she would put her threat into
execution. She left me in a most excited state,
and I never saw her again. The breakfast was
ready as usual, at half past nine, and I waited until
ten, to see whether she would come and preside;

she did not come, and I sent to inquire for her.
The answer was that she had not returned from
her walk. I despatched a servant to search for her :
he brought word that she had been seen going to
the town. I sent there at once, and heard that she
had started by the London coach. You may imagine
my grief and passion : I had no doubt that she
had left me, as she said, to return to Italy.

The following morning I ordered my confidential
servant to go to London, and, if possible, to
find out how and where she had gone, and if she
had not already left England, to give her letters
from me, to induce her to return. That evening
I had promised to join a party at your house, Captain
Burford ; and, fearing to excite any suspicions,
I fulfilled my engagement. I remember the evening
well, and the exertions I made to appear myself.
In the course of a few days my servant returned,
having failed to discover any traces of the fugitive.
I at once started for London, and thence for Italy,
not imagining that she would remain an hour in
England, if she could avoid it. I did not suspect
the real state of the case, and therefore scarcely
made an inquiry about her until I reached her
mother's house, taking it for granted that I should
find her there. I knew she had money sufficient
to carry her to her journey's end, as I made her a
liberal allowance.

Of course she had not been heard of by her
friends and their anxiety and mine was fearful.
It eventually caused her mother's death. We
made every possible inquiry, but in vain. Meanwhile
she had given birth to this child. Such inquiries
and advertisements as Mr. Barnard or the
authorities may have set afloat, I never heard of;
and had it not been for this excellent man, my
child would have been consigned to the workhouse,
and her mother to a pauper's grave."

When Mr. Michelson ceased speaking, there
was a temporary silence ; no one seemed to know
exactly what to do or say : Tiny could scarcely repress
the sobs that had been gathering during her
father's history, and was covering her face with
both her hands. Tears were in other eyes besides her
own, and every one longed to embrace and comfort
her. Captain Burford was the first to move, and
to break the silence. He came to Mr. Michelson,
and holding out his hand, in his blunt, honest
manner, said 

Alps right,  all's well now, my good friend. T
am glad you have found such a daughter : you will
be a happier man from this time forth, now you
have made a clean breast of it. Tiny is the best
girl in the world, next to Jessie. Come, Tiny, getup,
child, and let me give you a kiss of congratulation

; ' all the same a hundred years hence you
know, whether I kiss you in public or not/

f Tiny was always my child, and promised to be
my housekeeper long ago," said Uncle James, coming
forward, and gently lifting her from her low
seat. " I am glad you have found a real parent,
love, though you should never have wanted one
as long as Brother Timothy and I lived."

"Mr. Barnard, allow me to shake hands with
you, and thank you," said Mr. Michelson in a
broken voice, 'sand with you, most excellent doctor.
You have all been fathers, brothers, and sisters to
my poor, deserted child. May God bless you all !
Chatham  your sister."

Yes, father," said Chatham, putting his arm
round Tiny's waist, and affectionately kissing her.
I am proud of my sister."

It was evident that Mr. Michelson s strength
was failing, yet he looked anxiously towards Lady
Georgiana, as if he expected her to say or do something.
Her pride, and the love she bore her sisters
memory, were struggling with better feelings. Mr.
Michelson had treated her sister unkindly, and
this was the child of her rival ! She looked for a
moment at the drooping, pale, sad face of the overwhelmed
girl, and Christian principle conquered.
She went towards the father and daughter, and
said quietly 

' Mr. Michelson, I will try to think no more of
the past. I hope you may live to be happy with
your children, and that we may be friends."

She shook hands with Mr. Michelson, and kissed
Tiny, and then left the room, followed by her
daughters, and most of the other guests.

Aunt Betsey, who had sat erect and indignant
during the narrative, was the last to make any advances.
As she rose to depart, she was obliged to
pass Mr. Michelson, and seeing how ill and depressed
he looked, and how very handsome her
husband became by comparison, she relented.
Perhaps, as she stood before Mr. Michelson, the
thought may have passed through his mind, that,
had he married her in early life, when he really
loved her, much after-sin and present sorrow and
shame might have been spared. At all events, he
felt how much more prosperous and happy she now
was than he ; and he began to realize the fact, that
the Burtonss, in their honourable industry, had
been far better off than he had been in his career
of selfish prosperity. But, alas ! the knowledge
came too late, as such knowledge frequently does.

Good evening to you, Mr. Michelson'' said
the stately lady, holding out her hand ; "1 hope
soon to hear that you are better. Good bye, my
dear niece; I am glad that you have now found
your position in life''

As Aunt Betsey embraced Tiny, it must be confessed
that she warmed towards her. She never
could take kindly to the nameless orphan ; but she
might now venture to recognize her as the acknowledged
daughter of Mr. Michelson.

'' Madam," said Mr. Michelson, " if I ever offended
you or your family, I have been sufficiently
punished, by having both a son and daughter
adopted amongst you. You have all rendered good
for evils

This was the last connected speech that Mr.
Michelson made. As his first-love swept out of
the room, he sank back, exhausted. The menservants
were summoned, and he was carried up to
his bedroom. It was discovered that his legs were
paralyzed, and the doctors both feared that he
could never recover the use of them. All that he
seemed conscious of for some time after he was
laid on his bed, was the presence of Chatham and
Tiny. " Sophia, was the one word that he murmured
j and his hand was pressed on his daughter's,
when he fell into a troubled sleep, still muttering
the name he had been ashamed to articulate in
public, when his doing so might have, perhaps,
made him a better man.

q3

CHAPTER XLIX.

One place, one only place, there was on earth
Where no man e'er was fool, however mad.
Men may live tools, but fools they cannot die.' "

Pollock.

There is, perhaps, nothing more painful than to
watch the gradual decay of the powers of mind
and body of one stricken by paralysis. For this
Chatham and Tiny seemed to have recovered their
father;  seemed, we say advisedly, for, to all appearance,
they lost him in finding him : still a higher
Power had guided them and him to one another,
at that closing period of his life, for His own wise
purposes.

Mr. Michelson still existed, but it was little
more : his faculties, though not entirely destroyed,
were so much impaired, as to render him wholly
dependent upon those about him for amusement,
and almost for speech. His temper was naturally
imperious, and now that reason ceased to control
it at all, it was continually giving way. He constantly
miscalled whatever he wanted, so that it

was difficult for the most patient of his nurses
to understand him or anticipate his desires. It
was also almost impossible to repress a smile at
the various ridiculous mistakes that he made. He
would grow angry at the slightest delay or provocation,
with every one but Tiny ; and when she by
a word or a kiss had quieted him, he would burst
into a flood of infantile tears. This grief, most
painful to witness, would be succeeded by a kind
of consciousness of having impaired his personal
appearance thereby, and he would have the looking-glass
brought to him, cause his hair to be arranged,
his cravat and diamond studs placed aright, and a
flower inserted into his button-hole. Tiny never
forgot the daily flower, the choicest she could find ;
and he was always pleased to see it. He was
wheeled and carried from room to room nearly
every hour, such was his impatience at being in
one place ; and all the strong or weak points of his
character, that had made his life one of selfish gratification
and amusement, appeared to grow into
childish strength and weakness, as he approached
the grave. He still clung to outward beauty.
Anna and Tiny he would have always with him,
and gaze upon them almost admiringly : but the
housekeeper, who was plain, he could not endure
to be within his sight. He still clung to his paintings,

statues and antiques, and would be moved
from picture to picture  statue to statue  curiosity
to curiosity  just as , in his earlier years, he had
wandered from country to country, in search of
them. Music or singing soothed him, but generally
brought him to tears. As Anna recovered
some degree of strength, she would occasionally
play and sing to him ; but the effort cost her so
much, that Chatham averted it in every possible
way.

Tiny devoted herself entirely to her father and
Uncle Timothy. Charles was compelled to leave
her at the Hall, to pursue his labours as a painter,
for his pictures were now called for, and the only
grief he had was, that he must this year work
alone. He had prepared one or two small pictures
for exhibition, and now set to work upon a larger
one. Pynsent, in re-furnishing and beautifying
his house for his bride, left him the old studio at
the top.

But Tiny ! She read the Bible to her father, and
Uncle Timothy reaped the fruits of it. Sometimes
Mr. Michelson would seem to listen  would even
make approving exclamations; but whether the
words reached his heart, or merely the sound his ear,
nobody could tell. Alas ! it was the thing of all
others to which he had never been accustomed.

Still Tiny read and hoped, and prayed, as she had
done when poor Mrs. Eveleigh was ill. Strange,
that whenever the church-bell sounded, Mr.
Michelson would be taken to church  wheeled in
his chair, or carried, a dead-weight, by his servants.
With a prayer-book on a desk by his side, sometimes
seeming to read, sometimes looking at the
clergyman, sometimes joining in a response, as he
caught the words from Uncle Timothy, he appeared
contented, and even happy. How fervently would
Tiny pray that the " Lord, have mercy upon us 
Christ, have mercy upon us, that he tried to utter
might be heard and answered, soulless as seemed
the utterer. His presence was as true a lesson to
the congregation as was the sermon. Some pitied
him; some said he deserved his end; all murmured
that riches and grandeur could not save
from the last great enemy. Every one looked with
pity and a certain feeling of affection on the young
pale daughter, whom they had always known as
the orphan, dependent on Mr. Barnard for love
and sympathy. As she attended her father day after
day, either in the carriage or by the side of his
wheeled chair, the poor dropped a curtsey to her,
and spoke in whispers of Miss Rutherford  remembered
by many,  and of how she had been the wife
of Mr. Michelson, and mother of Tiny. They

had always been fond of Chatham, and it must not
be wondered at if they looked forward with hope
to the time when he and one of their favourite
Burtonss should be master and mistress at the Hall.

Chatham was very good to Tiny. Brotherly and
sisterly feelings grew up between them by degrees,
and the noble-minded though thoughtless Chatham
soon won the love of his half-sister. He would
tell her all he knew of her mother, and of his
boyish affection for her, until she fancied she knew
as much or more ; and then she would ask timidly
of his mother, and win from him a confidence concerning
her sufferings and patience, that even
Anna had never won.

It was evident to Chatham that his father had
some wish concerning Tiny, that he could not
express. By degrees he gathered that there was
money somewhere, that he desired should be settled
upon her. He had long conferences with the
Bailiff, who declared that all the ready money had
been vested in pictures. One day, however, his
father pointed to his desk, then to the different pictures,
and finally spoke of picture-dealers and
brokers, tolerably clearly. Upon turning over the
different papers in the desk, Chatham found one
from a picture-dealer, who said he had been offered
six thousand pounds for different paintings, that, it

appeared Mr. Michelson had requested him either
to sell or value. Chatham read this to his father,
who at once muttered, " Sell  for her  for hers
pointing to Tiny.

Chatham wrote at once and desired the pictures
to be sold. All was arranged, and in a short time
Tiny became mistress of six thousand pounds, which
Chatham caused to be duly settled and funded,
so as to keep her from want, in case of the failure
of the professional crop. She seemed mostly
thankful for this income because it would enable
her husband to pursue his art without feeling that
absolute bread depended upon it.

From Mr. Michelson's impatience of remaining
long in one spot, it resulted that he made almost
daily visits to Fairfield, and occasionally honoured
the Grange with his presence. Melancholy as it
was to see him lifted in and out of his carriage, no
one attempted to oppose him. Chatham felt that
if he had not been an affectionate father, he himself
had not been a very conciliating son, and so
determined to bear with his most tyrannical will at
this closing scene of his life. Tiny felt that it was
too great a blessing to have an acknowledged father,
ever to thwart him in any way, and moreover
was only too glad to accompany him to happy
Fairfield,  still, and always, happy Fairfield. When
here, Mr. Michelson would sit contentedly for

hours, and frequently converse with tolerable ease.
Jessie was always ready to amuse him, and her
simple ballads would quiet his nervous restlessness,
more than anything else. Here, too, he met
Captain Burford and Nelson, themselves so happy
and hopeful that their joyful faces communicated
something like pleasure to his.

His one great object was to see Jessie married
to Nelson. It mattered not who was present, he
would talk about the wedding incessantly, and he
had a ready coadjutor in the Captain.

The time of violets and cowslips had come round,
and Jessie rejoiced that there was still a child at
Fairfield, to gather those favourite flowers amidst
the fields and hedgerows, and fill the old house
with them. She and little Chatham, who now divided
his time between the Hall and Fairfield,
wandered many an hour in the old haunts, gathering
baskets full of treasures, and making those delicious
tisty-tosties that are such delights to children
of all growths. You may be sure that Nelson
was not far off; it was so pleasant to live over again
the years of boyhood and girlhood together, that
they quite forgot they were arrived at steady age,
and strung the luscious yellow cowslips into the
full round ball, with as much glee as little Chatham
himself. As Anna regained strength, she and
her husband would follow quietly the footsteps of

their boy, and in this lovely spring weather would
talk of the little ones they had lost , stooping beneath
the thorn-bushes to cull the sweet violet, or in
the green meadow for the cowslip, and thinking how
like those pure and fragrant flowers were their own
young buds, now blossoming in heaven. Thus they
became wiser and better, and therefore happier in
their joint lives.

By-and-by, ere yet Spring had lost herself in
Summer, and whilst the white May gleamed amidst
its green ornaments, others were added to the
wanderers amongst the cowslip meadows and violet
ways. Pynsent and Charles were loitering about
from time to time as they could manage to leave
London for a day or two, to see the beloved faces,
and breathe the fresh air of the dear old place ;
and Peter was with them, rejoicing in his home and
dry land. They even contrived to wheel the poor
paralytic into the fields, and to carry him the
flowers he loved. That one bit of nature, that love
of flowers, was a redeeming point in him, who had,
alas ! so little good to redeem the evil. And now
he began to enjoy the open air, and the sunshine,
and the song of birds, and to be restless within
doors ; and sometimes he would look from Tiny upto
the clear blue heavens, and sigh heavily, and
even weep. Then she would try to make him
speak and think of " the heaven of heaven's and

sometimes he would listen gravely ; at others, grow
impatient, and turn to Mr. Barnard, and talk of
his complaints.

Thus time passed on, and before May was out
the wedding-day was fixed, and Mr. Michelson was
satisfied. Cheerful, in spite of the great shadow his
melancholy condition cast, were the family meetings
at Fairfield. The inmates of the Hall, the
Grange, and the friends in town, congregated there
around Jessie, the mother, sister, friend, and future
bride,  for had she not been, and was she not, one
and all ? Of course she and Pynsent were to renounce
single-blessedness on the same day, and the
weddings were to take place at Fairfield.

We have already married so many of our friends
in this true history, that we must not venture upon
another description. They were married much in
the same style as their predecessors, and not being
very young people, or remarkably sentimental, and
not having any distressed friends and relatives to
leave behind them, they all answered " I will " very
firmly and distinctly, and had no compunctions
of conscience at the "love, honour, and obey."
Nelson was determined that Jessie should enjoy
her honeymoon, so he took her for a regular tour
on the Continent, and left the Captain to take care
of Fairfield. The joy of that excellent man maybe
conceived.

Pynsent and Louisa went straight to London,
and enjoyed their honeymoon in an unsentimental
but very agreeable manner, in that handsome house
in Duke street. Perhaps there never were a merrier
bride and bridegroom.

Mr. Michelson witnessed the weddings, and was
one of the family-party at Fairfield during the day,
He seemed more himself on the occasion than he
had been before, since the attack. He made handsome
presents to the brides, and solemnly, though
incoherently, charged Nelson to love and cherish
Jessie. There was that in his manner which
brought tears into all eyes. He seemed to be reproaching
himself in counselling another. When
he returned home that night, accompanied by his
two children. Uncle Timothy, Charles, and Anna,
he was very much depressed. He endeavoured to
make them understand that he hoped they would
never leave him. The following day he had
another paralytic stroke, and from that time was
confined wholly to his room : he was, indeed, a
melancholy wreck ; and the tenderest of children,
which Tiny truly was, could only pray that he
might be gently floated away to the everlasting
ocean. There was a change in his poor stranded
mind as well : it was now only quieted by hearing
prayers or psalms read aloud, or by seeing his
children on their knees. With his large eyes restlessly

seeking something that they could not find,
and his hand grasping something that seemed unattainable,
he lay almost speechless, listening to
words that he could no longer understand. Tiny
once caught the muttered word " Christ" upon his
lips, and the poor child lived afterwards in hope
that it was registered in Heaven. The closing
scene was so solemn and affecting, that none of
those present ever forgot it. It caused Chatham,
weeping like a child, to vow henceforth " to live ashe
should wish he had done when he came to die ;"
and Anna to sob out her resolution of preparing
in this world for the next. That they sought, and
received, strength to keep the vow and resolution,
will be seen. in their after-life.

We will humbly hope that the united prayers
of the living for the departing soul were heard by
Him who is a God of mercy ; but truly the melancholy
death-bed of poor Mr. Michelson was calculated
to remind his children that the only true
preparation for a happy death is a holy life.

