CHAPTER I.

First IN THE FIELD. *

SWEET hour, and a sweet place!
Yet to the two timid travellers
who had just alighted at the little
station, the situation seemed full of peril. All
was silent but for the quiet murmur of that
northern sea. The long summer day had
closed at last, and the far-off Cumberland hills
they had lately gazed on for the first time were
now wrapped in shadow. ISTo train left the
place till morning. No sign of a village or
human habitation could be descried through
VOL. I. 1

the gloaming. There they waited, these anxious
seekers after something to their advantage ;
and there it seemed as if they might wait forever
! No one took the slightest notice of
them. The bookin<2r-office and waiting-rooms
were already locked up, the lamps put out ;
one official had taken his departure, and
the rest seemed about to follow his example.


Oh, Prue, Prue !' began the elder and
more timid of the pair. ' Something to our
advantage, indeed ! The place seems a wilderness,
and the inhabitants to have hearts of
stone, thus abandoning two helpless women at
such an hour. What would my Edwin have
said had he but lived to see !'

That allusion to the lost love of her
youth indicated the only bit of egotism about
this sweet little spinster of well-nigh sixty
years. Her Edwin had been dead and buried
for thirty and odd. To Sabina Eicketts the
memory of the young hnvyer's clerk, the
lover of her girlhood, was fresh and sweet as
to-day's rose. She seldom, however, alluded

to him, except in such moments as this ; the
recollection was too sacred to be evoked upon
ordinary occasions, and she felt shy of intruding
her personality upon others.

Prudence Perfect, her companion, was
younger by fifteen years, and far sprightlier,
both in manner and appearance. She was
now looking about her with much alacrity and
excitement. No memory of a lost Edwin, no
buried love, rendered her insensible to the
romance of the hour, or the possibility gf
romance in the future.

In spite of some natural trepidation, she
was relishing this position. It was the first
adventure of her life, and it might be the
beginning of many more.

For the first time, too, she was breathing
the air of a foreign land  absolutely foreign
to her seemed this North country  Kamschatka
or Timbuctoo could hardly have impressed
her imagination more. The whiff" of sea-air,
the purple outline of the sea, the hanging-woods
shutting in the valley  all these were
new and bewildering as the first scenes that

12

greeted the eyes of Christiana and Mercy
when on their way to the Celestial country.

Those beautiful mountains, if we could
only climb them this very moment !' she
cried, with girlish rapture ; then catching sight
of a porter, she ran after him, and appealed
breathlessly for help : ' How far is it to Briar-dale
? and is there no kind of conveyance V
she cried.

None whatsoever, miss  not if you
waited till Martinmas,' replied the man.
Folks always tramp it on foot, and 'tis only
a soot two mile or so.'

But the night is very dark, and the place
seems quite deserted. Could you not accompany
us V asked Prue, Sabina sighing and
trembling at her elbow.

Not now, miss  not if you paid me a
guinea a minute ; I'm on night-duty at t'other
station,' said the man ; adding, by way of encouragement,
* Law a mussy, who's to harm
you ? You have only to go as straight as the
crow flies ; and, leastways, you'll get to the
town before mornings.'

The idea of such a walk in utter darkness
amid these solitudes grew more and more
portentous.

Law, miss pursued the man, ' you are
sure to meet the postman on the way, and
mayhap a drunken drover or two a-comin''
from market, and a few tramps or gipsies.
The road is not lonely a bit,' he added, growing
more and more cheerful as he piled up
horrors. ' If you don't look sharp, by the
time you get to the inn it will be shut up,
so make haste ; and, once shut up, it don't
open  not for nobody.'

Trust in God, and let us set out boldly
said Sabina, in a low, desperate voice. ' It
must be done : and when a thing must be
done, I think of my Edwin lying in his cold
grave, and that braces me up for the
worst.'

Prue also summoned courage. After all,
were they not about to obtain something to
their advantage ? Great fortune is not attained
without painful hazards. Yes, come
what might, they would set out bravely.

To less faint-hearted pedestrians, the walk
offered nothing short of enchantment. Not
that much of the surrounding country could
be descried. It was twilight rather than night
itself. Only a star or two glimmered faintly,
dark purple the distant hills, darker still the
wooded sides of the valley, narrower and
narrower grew the band of amber light in the
west  yet, as the practised musician discerns
subtler melody in the quiet fugue than in the
brilliant opera, so here the true lover of
beauty would find infinite gradations of light
and shadow, dim harmonies of form, and hues
even more beautiful than the o;lowino' effects
of day. Over the place, too, brooded an air
of perfect peace. It seemed as if the very
genius of tranquillity reigned here.

This veiled indefinite loveliness and sweet
caressing repose inspired even the two
frightened travellers into momentary rapture.
In a little while they forgot their apprehensions.


If we arrive safely, what a sight will
greet our eyes in the morning !' cried Sabina,

as they now stepped out valiantly. ' I have
always contented myself with imagining
mountains and wild places ; but of course we
can never quite imagine anything, so my
Edwin always said. Ah ! were he only hereto
enjoy this adventure with us !'

Just then Prue gave her companion a
violent lunge, and both walked on panting
with fear. It was only a rustling in the
hedo-e that had disturbed them  some rabbit

o

scuttling to its burrow, or perhaps a harmless
toad hastening to its runlet ; but to the
minds of the pair, the noise presaged some
fearful encounter.

They walked on for a quarter of an hour in
silent trepidation ; then, hearing nothing
more, felt somewhat reassured.

We ought not to feel in the least alarmed,'
Prue said, in a tone of self-reproach. ' Were
we Christians, as we call ourselves ; had we a
particle of true faith, we should walk on unconcernedly
if fiery-mouthed dragons beset
our path, confident of Divine protection.
Oh !'

The ejaculation of alarm was followed by a
terrified whisper.

I hear footsteps. I am sure it is a man.
Hold tight ; but do not seem afraid !'

The steps came nearer and nearer. True
enough, it was a man ; the loud quick tramp
indicated that. What would happen to them ?
Each carried a watch, of no great value certainly,
except to themselves ; and each a few
pounds, although so elaborately secreted about
their persons that not a pickpocket in the
kingdom had surely wit enough to find it out.
If not robbed or murdered, might not far
worse misfortunes happen to them ? There
they were, two defenceless beings at the mercy
of some Hercules of the other sex, evidently
on the prowl with malicious intent.

A terrible moment of suspense, and all was
over.

Good-night, my dears !' cried the man
cheerily. It was, indeed, the village postman,
and he mistook the two fig-ures for those of
his neighbours, the tall schoolmistress and her
diminutive mother.

The pair, murmuring secret little thanksgivings,
hastened on.

'He seemed a kind man,' Sabina said, in a
tone of great relief. ' Oh dear, I wish he
would not walk so fast ! He will be out of
reach of hearing in no time, and unable to
come to the rescue if any ruffian should attack
us. But, Prue, just think for a moment,
what happy beings men must be, never to feel
afraid in dark country roads ! I well remember
a saying of my Edwin's, as he set off
unconcernedly one foggy night to cross Clapham
Common. And he said  I remember his
exact words  " Binaa," he said  he always
called me Binaa, and nobody else ever did ; I
would not permit it  " Binaa, a well-regulated
mind " '

But the narrative came to an aghast pause.
Prue caught Sabina's arm, and they listened
for a moment tremblingly. From the distance
reached them dreadful noises, stertorous
guffaws, fostering snatches of song, loud
riotous talk. There could be no mistake. It
was evidently a party of half drunken drovers 

worse still, tramps  returning from the
fair.

Not giving themselves time for reflection,
the two companions in peril now made wildly
for the hedge. They must get beneath its
shadow, and, holding their breath, endeavour
to escape observation. Between the wayside
and the hedge lay a deep ditch, with sloping
hanks, and a showery summer had kept it full
of water. The first plunge forward placed the
luckless pair ankle-deep in mud ; the second,
found them up to their knees in water ; the
third, to their distorted imagination, threatened
nothing short of a watery grave. For the
ditch being particularly deep at this spot, the
rain had formed a kind of reservoir ; the more
wildly they plunged, the deeper they became
immersed, and now it did indeed appear as if
that much-dreamed-of something to their advantage
would end in dire calamity. Death by
drowning was surely imminent I Fear of one
kind banished terror of another. The obstreperous
drovers, of whom just before they had
stood in dread, were now hailed as deliverers.

They cried aloud for help, and their piteous
appeal could be heard from far and wide.
The talk and laughter ceased, and to the
rescue, as fast as their legs could carry them,
came the restorers  true enough a pair of
drovers, and somewhat jovial after a hearty
bout, but honest husbands and fathers both,
and not in the least disposed to harm a mouse,
much less to lay nefarious hands on a woman.

Fortunately they were provided with a
lantern, and by its friendly aid at once
realized the situation. 

Lawks a-daisy, mother !' cried the first, ashe
brought the trembling Sabina to land.
As blind as moles ye must be, surely, to miss
the road! Maybe  no harm intended 
you've been to a funeral and come home a bit
groggy, like your betters. Leastways, here
you are, safe and sound, on terry-firm, but
as dripping as an 'epping toad. Have you
got out t'other female, Jem V

All right, Joe,' retorted his companion, a
worthy fellow, but a bit of a wag. ' And a
light 'un in hand she is. I'd carry her to

Lancaster with pleasure, I would. ~So here
you are, miss. You'll have to step more
than a mile to walk yourself dry again.
That's all the comfort I can give ye.'

Thank you both, dear men !' said Sabina,
fumbling in her pocket. * We are strangers
here, and very timid ; so timid that when we
heard you coming we tried to hide in the
hedo-e. For we could not in the least tell

o

who it was. It might have been thieves or
murderers.'

" Might have been " is a peck-measure without
a bottom,' quoth the waggish deliverer.
I mig-ht have been Pontius Pilate or Lord

o

Nelson, but am Jem Hepburn instead. The
job isn't worth paying for. Howsomever, as
you're so pressing, Pll take sixpence rather
than disoblige a lady.'

Dear men, we thank you so much, so very
much !' Sabina said, as she slipped sixpence
into the hand of each, the thriftier Prue
nudging her reproachfully. Then the men
wished them ' Good-night,' and went on, laughing
over the adventure.

I think one sixpence between them would
have sufficed Prue said, when both had
recovered self-possession, and were once more
stepping out bravely.

Oh, Prue, to count the cost of manly
deeds ! Had not the rest of my money been
sewed up in my stays I should have given
double, I am sure I should.'

I do hope our next adventure will be more
pleasant,' Prue said, always hopeful, yet with
ardour somewhat damped. * It seems ages
already since we left home ; and what a
comfort to sleep in a bed once more !'

If we ever do !' Sabina said. Their
nocturnal wanderings seemed to have lasted
for weeks ; and, on principle, she always prepared
for the worst. * You see, we can't be
half-way yet, and so many more mischances
may happen before we arrive ; then if that
inn should be shut up  the inn that never
opens, you know 1'

Do let us be brisk !' cried Prue ; so they
stepped out with greater determination and
alacrity than ever.



It was now twilight no longer ; but night 
silvery, starry, delicious. Sweet smells of
wild rose reached them from the hedgerows ;
the floor of heaven was studded with dazzling
lights ; whilst the glow-worms, lesser stars of
earth, illumined the dusky way ; and deeper,
in tender, the Sabbath-like calm brooding over
the quiet land.

The mood of the travellers varied from
ecstatic enjoyment and looking forward, to
terrible suspense and gloomy foreboding. Thus
no sooner were they well out of one predicament
than they became frolicsome as kittens,
although perhaps on the verge of another far
more terrible.

Think of waking up in an hotel ! I have
never eaten a meal in an inn in my life,'
Sabina said, with the naive anticipation of a
child. * I believe that men are so superior to
women in many ways because they go to
inns.'

And if we really find that there is something
to our advantage I' laughed Prue.
How new to us to feel rich ! Those two

sixpences you gave away just now ! How
nice to be able to give away, not only sixpences
but half-crowns, without feeling low-spirited
about it  not exactly low-spirited,
perhaps, but a little taken aback at having
permitted ourselves such an imprudence

Sabina caught her companion's gay some
mood.

We have already got something to our
advantage, I am sure  this seeing the world,
I mean. It is not pleasant to tumble into
a ditch full of water, certainly ; but even
that experience has given us new insight into
human character. Then to reflect that we are
hundreds of miles from home, and among
people who have never so much as heard of
our very existence. The thought of it makes
my heart leap. Don't let us dwell too much
on the money, or whatever else may becoming
to us, but let us enjoy the present
moment to the utmost.'

Thus they chatted on for a quiet half-hour,
nothing more occurring to mar their composure
; and soon  yes, there could be no

mistake about it  they were approaching the
visage. One or two houses of the Letter
sort were passed, their white walls gleaming
amid dark shrubberies ; then a cottage or two ;
finally, a brisk walk of a few minutes brought
them to the village street  if street it could
be called  a single line of straggling houses
and cottages. Only a feeble light glimmered
here and there in some u23per storey. Not a
soul seemed astir. Profound silence reigned
throughout the place.

They now came to the inn, the big house
described to them. Here, too, all was obscure,
silent, deserted. They pulled the bell, they
juliet the knocker ; no friendly step sounded
in the corridor, no welcome light moved overhead.
Their worst fears then were realized 
they were shut out for the night.

THE Reverend ME. BACCHUS.

"HE sense of being among human
habitations saved them from despair.
Prue, always alert to take
an initiative, and imbued with the conviction
that invisible protectors, heaven-sent ministrants,
followed them each step by the way,
put on a cheerful countenance. She would
knock up every soul in the village, she said,
rather than spend the night afield.

Sabina, also inexpressibly cheered by the
sight of bricks and mortar, gate-posts and
cabbage-gardens, acquiesced, with inspiriting
allusions to the lost Edwin. arm-in-arm they
walked on defiantly, and were soon rewarded

VOL. I. 2

for tlicir intrepidity. A few liumlrecl yards
brought them close under a cheerfully lighted
dormer, overhanging a little paled-in flower-garden.
Their loud imploring knocks brought
nobody to the door, but the window was
thrown up and a man's head peered out.

Please began Prue, in those well-trained
accents that immediately, and even to ears not
over-sensitive, indicated one gently born and
bred. ' Oh, please, can you tell us what todo
? We are strangers, and have just walked
from the station. There was no conveyance,
and the inn is shut up and won't open. We
can't make it.'

Wait a bit ; I will dress myself and comedown,'
replied a voice from above, the voice of
a man good to women who scream, and
babies.

The window was closed, and the two,
chuckling with relief, watched the tall, lank
shadow of their final deliverer, as he moved
backwards and forwards. He was evidently
making a hasty toilette.

In a very few minutes the light vanished

and the curate appeared, for it was clerical
patronage they had found here ; he had
donned his pantalon, thrust his stockingiess
feet into slippers, thrown on a shabby woollen
dressing-gown, and there he was. Not exactly
the kind of man to flee to in extraordinary
dilemma, looked the Curate of Briardale.
There was an air of pathetic absence of mind
and dreamy helplessness about him, much as
if he had not the remotest conception of what
would happen to him the very next moment.
But he was a man, he was a clergyman, he.
was kind. To Sabina Eicketts and Prudence
Perfect he appeared little short of an angel.
For very relief and pleasure the pair sat in the
parlour to which he had conducted them,
smiling speechlessly at him and at each
other.

So the inn is shut up V he began, smiling.
 There is nothing remarkable in that fact,
I assure you. We arc early folks in these
parts, and nobody ever takes us by surprise at
this hour of the nio;ht.'

Then he glanced at the intruders, evidently

22

wondering what their business at Briardale
could be.'

 We have business in the neighbourhood,
and intend taking rooms here for a week or
two Prue said explanatory. ' But what weare
to do for the moment, we are at a loss
to conceive.'

She looked helpless, but in nowise dispirited,
as she said this ; all terrors had now
vanished from the situation. Had Prue found
herself with half a dozen companions in misfortune,
suddenly cast adrift, from sunken
ship in mid-ocean, hardly a rag to cover
them, only a handful of haricot-beans and a
pint or two of fresh water among all, the
presence of a clergyman would have more
than sustained her courage. It might have
made a Grace Darling, a Jeanne d'Arc of her.
Her faith in the cassock was really beautiful.

I will tell you what you can do,' replied
the clergyman, with great good-nature. ' It
so happens that my spare room was got read'
this very day for a college friend who had
promised to sleep here on this way to Carlisle.

Pray accept a bed under my roof for the night.
You need have no fear as to the dryness of
the sheets. I aired them myself. You see,'
he added, smiling ruefully, ' since my poor
wife's: death I am obliged to attend to these
things.'

You are too, too kind !' cried Sabina and
Prue in a breath.

I dare say you would both do as much forme,'
was the reply. ' But let me explain who
I am. I am the curate here ; my name is
Bacchus  an odd name for a clergyman anyhow,
is it not ? and especially for me. Little
enough of the Bacchanalian about me, I am
sure! But we can't help what names we
come into the world with : I wish we could.
Well, it is settled then : you sleep here. And
now do pray have some supper  bread and
cheese and a glass of ale. I am sorry I have
nothing better to offer you.'

He brought forth the promised cheer, and
the travellers moved to the table, flushed with
pleasure. They were, indeed, half famished.
The bread was passing stale, the cheese a

trifle hard, the beer somewhat Hat; but the
pair had never reinstated a meal with more
relish. The sense, too, of being housed for
the night raised their spirits. They supped
with all possible despatch, reining in their
gaiety and loquaciousness. They had roused
the poor curate from his bed, and were themselves
sitting in damp clothes. The sooner
the delightful repast ended the better.

I think you will find everything you want
in your room ; I arranged it myself,' said
their host, as he conducted them to an
upper chamber.  My youngest boy is restless
with his teething ; but although he disturbs
me a good deal, you will not hear him
here.'

And we disturbed your sleep !' cried Prue,
in a tone of keen self-reproach.

jSTo, indeed ; I was wide awake,' replied
the Eev. Mr. Bacchus. 'But these broken
nights make me feel terribly sleepy in the
daytime. I wish the tables could be turned
sometimes, and preachers allowed to nap in
the pulpit, instead of their congregations

napping in the pews. What difference could
it make V

Then he bade them good-night, the friends
saying nothing, because they had no words
at command adequate to the occasion. They
were too thankful  too full of emotion for
speech just now.

And next morning, when refreshed by sleep
they awoke in this new sweet world, what
emotions were theirs ! How rapturously they
drew up the blinds, and gazed on a landscape
now seen for the first time ! 

Tented travellers watching an Eastern sun
gild the columns of Baalbec, classic enthusiasts
catching that first adorable glimpse of Athens
from the harbour, could not have felt a more
grateful sense of novelty and fascination.

Nothing here at all resembled the familiar
scenes from which they had come. This
wide sunny bay, now a beauteous sheet
of silvery water, later on to be a velvety
waste of fine brown sand ; those far-off
mountains of pale gold and delicate purple ;
the rich hanging woods framing in the picture

  how wonderful, how fair to their untravelled
eyes !

The impressions and experiences of the
night before, the alternating; fears and rejoicing,
the final welcome  all now filled
their minds with delight. And then the
Curate's appearance ! They had never beheld
a gentleman without his stockings before.
The whole thing was so romantic !

They where almost ready to go downstairs,
when they heard the thumping of a child's
fists on the door, and in came an odd, confidential,
precocious bantling of six.

Papa heard you moving about, so sent me
to say breakfast is just ready,' he said.
Papa washed me, and I put on my clothes
my own self ;' and, prattling on in the same
strain, he led them downstairs.

 Which of you ladies will pour out the
coffee V asked the Curate cheerfully, emerging
from the kitchen coffee-pot in hand.

Sabina glanced at Prue. Prue was the
younger, the more ornamental of the two.
Prue was not yet past sentiment and coquetry ;

clearly she ought to have the gratification of
presiding at the Curate's table. So, with a
charming blush and shy smile  upon such
occasions Prue felt as youthful as a girl of
seventeen  she accepted the invitation.

Oh dear 1' cried their host, when the
business of breakfast was fairly begun ; ' I
have clean forgotten prayers. Well, we must
have an extra portion tomorrow. George,
Jane can't leave the baby, so run and fetch
the mustard.'

The Kev. Mr. Bacchus looked all the
better " for being fully dressed. The black
clerical garments set off his fair hair and
complexion to the best advantage. His appearance
wanted tone, emphasis, relief ; and
these blacks and whites gave it. In a light
dun-coloured suit it would have been almost a
puzzle to say which was the clothing and
which the man. Now, there could be no
mistake about it.

In honour of his visitors, too, he had, however,
made his toilet much more elaborately
than usual  had trimmed his beard, put on

some new clothes. In fact, thus done justice
to, the Eev. Mr. Bacchus looked no meanly
endowed son of Adam. There seemed no
point, no purpose about him ; that was the
drawback.

Sabina and Prue were astonished at their
own ease and gaiety ; but, as Prue confessed
afterwards, pleasant as it was to be thus hospitably
entertained, another feeling predominated
 there would be no dreadful
hotel-bill in the morning. Had that inhospitable,
uncompliant inn opened its doors,
who knows what the expense might have
been ! They made, however, immediate inquiries
as to lodgings.

I will go with you and see what there is
to be had in the village, after breakfast. But
pray do not be in such a hurry about it.
Georgie will show you the garden whilst I see
to my washing. It is the washerwoman's day,
and I must get the clothes ready the first
thing.'

And the funeral, papa V put in Georgie.

Oh dear me !' said the Curate ; * I had clean

forgotten that there was a funeral. Georgie
always has to remind me of these things.
And, dear me, there is a christening, too.
How inconveniently funerals and christening
always happen ! Well, really, there is no
help for it. You ladies must positively share
my beans and bacon at one o'clock, and then I
promise you faithfully to see about lodgings.'

The pair made feeble remonstrance, but
their hospitable entertainer would have his
way. It was settled, then, they stayed to
dinner, and forthwith he bustled off to see 16
his washing.

No sooner was he out of the house than
Sabina and Prue set to work to make themselves
useful. A huge stack of unmended
clothes, just home from the wash, lay on the
parlour-table. They brought out their hus-wives,
and plied needle and thread with right
goodwill.

I wonder how we shall both feel this day
week began Sabina  'whether we shall have
come into a fortune, or be going home fools
for our pains V

There must be something for us, when
you think of it,' answered Prue. * You see,
we are the very persons wanted, and people
are not ferreted out from remote quarters of
the globe for nothing.'

After all,' said Sabina, * we may inherit a
million, or lose the little we have got. It is
not worth thinking about. The world we
move in is a mere cocoa-nut tumbling about in
space, and wee mortals are of no more account
than ants.'

It seems to matter,' put in Prue.

But it really doesn't, you know,' Sabina
went on. ' On such occasions as these I think
of Sir Isaac Newton and the apple, or of
Christopher Columbus and the egg ; and then
I say, it is all one whether we are happy
or miserable.'

But,' said Prue, feeling her way gingerly
through the metaphysical labyrinth, * seeming
is so like being, that we can't help behaving
as if it did matter. And,' she went on with
alacrity, as a new light dawned upon her
mind, * although, of course, we ought not to

covet wealth for its own sake, yet, as it seems
such a blessing in many ways, it is exactly
the same thing as if it were. True, when we
think of Sir Isaac Newton and the apple  the
wonderful ways of nature, 1 mean  we ought
to feel perfectly indifferent to worldly fortune.
But downright poverty and affliction, if not of
any real consequence, appear so ; we always
want to relieve them when they come in our
way

Sabina sighed.

Put it as you please. If nothing come
of this journey, I shall set it down as an
interposition of Providence. Wealth would
most likely have been the ruin of us.'

But without being in the least bit wealthy,'
Prue added, sticking to the point, ' we maybe
put in a position to help others. Suppose,
now  suppose this something to our advantage
only turns out to be a thousand
pounds apiece  I put it at the lowest possible
figure  what a deal of good in a small way
we could do I'

I am not sure that doing good, as you call

it, is not another delusion Sabina said. * Of
course, if tins fortune really comes to us, we
should not spend it on ourselves. How
to find out who is more deserving ? At
least, we are not drunkards, thieves, or impostors.'


We need not run into either extreme,'
Prue said cheerfully. The more she talked of
the dreamed-of wealth, the more surely she
felt it hers. * We would not deny ourselves a
few little comforts, neither would we squander
our money on undeserving objects. And then,
you see, there may be five, ten, twenty times
as much as we have said.'

Ah r sighed Sabina ; ' why was not this
something to our advantage heard of thirty
years ago ? Why did not my Edwin live to
rejoice in his Binaa's good fortune V

Prue had ever a cheery word.

After all,' she said, ' you are happier than
if you had never known your Edwin  than if
3'ou had never loved and been loved in return,
1 mean. There is no comparing the two
situations.'

Sabina made sentimental reply, and they
chatted over their sewing till mid-day. Then
the mended clothes were neatly folded and
put back in the basket, and the friends
strolled into the garden.

Dear me !' said the Curate, coming to meet
them. ' I beg you a thousand apologies ; I
have to absent myself again immediately after
dinner, so that you must really accept a bed
for to-night also. You must, really. Then
tomorrow morning I promise you faithfully
to see about lodgings.'

Sabina looked at Prue ; Prue looked at
Sabina.

It was too, too kind,' both said ; and
again the thought occurred to the thrifty
mind of Prue, ' What a saving of expense T

I shall be very glad if you will stay,'
pursued their host. ' If Georgie tumbles into
the pond, or baby has another fit, Jane wall
at least have some one to go to. And I have
a considerable journey to make. I cannot be
home before dusk. The fact is, a notorious
burglar has just been caught red-handed, and

popped into Marlborough Gaol ; and, in the
absence of the chaplain, I am to go and
try and touch his heart. How I am to
touch his heart I cannot imagine ; but go I
must. The poor fellow, they say, is sure to
be hanged.'

Of course, we will stay if you wish it ; weare
only too happy,' Prue said, thinking how
pleasant it would be to get their boxes from
the station, and ])e able to wear her best
gown.

The trap that drives me to the station can
bring back your luggage,' said the Curate, as
if anticipating her thoughts. ' You will like,
I dare say, to unpack your things.'

The friends thanked him, and gratefully
resigned themselves to the inevitable.

True, they were delaying the fateful revelation
; they would not learn for another day or
two the tidings so anxiously, so tremblingly
looked for. But, on the other hand, they
felt almost fearful of possessing the truth.
It might be but the bursting of a child's soap-bubble
after all.

And then to feel so safe, so sheltered here
cried Sabina, 'after exposure to dangers of
all kinds, and perils of the deep ! Well, not
perils of the deep, exactly ; yet, if water is
deep enough to drown you, one might just as
well be in the Atlantic Ocean as in a ditch at
home  it is the same thing in the end.'

'And, of course, when men are quite alone
in the world, they are more interesting to
women,' Prue replied. ' It must be so. This
kind Mr. Bacchus  I wonder what we can do
for him in turn !'

They found that they need not wonder
long. What with amusing the baby, binding
up Georgie's thumb, helping Jane to gather
currants, and repairing another basket of
clothes, the time passed profitably and all too
quickly. It was one of the happiest days
they could remember, both said.

VOL. I.

EXPECTING THE CLAIMANTS.

Finding between limestone crags,
pastures dazzlingly bright dotted
\32j( with herds, park-like slopes and
rich woods, a sweet little limpid lake lying
deep down in the green, the road climbs
upwards from Briardale in the direction of
Hoped ale Fell.

The fell is seen far off, a grand silvery
peak, lightly tinted here and there with green.
The sparse habitations passed on the way are
all built of the grey limestone of the district,
and wonderfully does it harmonize with the
landscape. One great charm of the scenery
is the luxuriance of the hero-es. Where the

division is not made of neatly-piled blocks of
stone, we find hedges of the old-fashioned
sort, a tangle of honeysuckle, wild rose, and
clematis, with abundance of hazel-trees, now
showing the young nuts. Ivy clothes the
limestone walls, and every bit of waste ground
is bluish-green with the berries of the juniper-tree.
It is as if a blue cloud had dropped
down. Wild flowers abound, but the amateur
must go farther afield for rarities or uncommon
ferns. Having climbed for three-quarters
of an hour, the traveller catches a
last glimpse of the sea  here a mere silvery
streak above the purple fells  before dipping
into the valley that leads to Hopedale.
Then are passed neat cottages with charming
flower-gardens, beautiful meadows tenanted by
happy kine, and the straggling village is
reached, with its fine old church and grand
bit of ivy-covered masonry  the keep of the
Manor. This is, however, not seen from the
village ; a large winding' meadow leads to the
back of the farmhouse built on to the ruins,
and it is necessary to get round to the other

32

side to realize the former size and solidity
of the structure. Only the keep, with a
fragment or two of wall and Gothic window,
remain. As far as practicable, modern occupiers
have turned the ruin to advantage.
The tower is roofed in, and used for storage
of farming implements. The homestead, outbuildings,
and ruin make a huge walled-in
congeries of building's, not without a certain
picturesqueness ; whilst the scenery around is
charming  sloping pastures of brightest,
velvety green ; white cottages nestling amid
orchards and gardens ; and, beyond all, the
grey fells tapestried with green, and dim Westmoreland
hills.

The white smoke of the far-off railway
threading such scenes on week-days breaks
the solitude of Briardale. Here, at Hopedale,
are fewer signs of life  scattered groups of
hay-makers at work ; a ploughman turning
the soil ; a farmer getting in the rich crop
of purple comfrey  for the most part, only
the quiet cows and sheep enjoying their rich
pastures to the utmost. A variety of birds

are seen here in abundance, on heath and
seashore ; whilst young rabbits scuttle about
the hillsides, as if they, too, were playthings,
and not prey of human kind.

When are they going to make their appearance,
I wonder  the dear creatures in search
of something to their advantage V said Mrs.
de Eobert, the owner of Hopedale Manor,
to her friend, the beautiful and spirited
Eugenia Ivory. ' Though, to be sure,' she
added, in those quick, satirical, cynical tones
of hers, ' when I have got rid of all I have
to give them, and you and I are ready to
sally forth, as you call it, like Don Quixote
and Sancho Panza, in search of adventure,
what adventures can possibly happen to us  at
any rate to an old woman like myself?'

Miss Ivory answered with perfect gravity.
She was one of the few people who can say
the most astounding things and tell the most
wonderful stories with an unmoved countenance.



Age has nothing whatever to do with

romance. At seventy, Ninon de I'Enclos
turned the head of every man who beheld lier,
and Madame de Maintenon bewitched the
King; of France when she was old enough
to be a great-grandmother.'

Well, suppose we do get as far as Rome,
now, if everything turns out well and we
really do start on our travels. What could
possibly happen to us in Some V

Miss Ivory opened wide her handsome
eyes.

Dozens of extraordinary things. For instance,
when we get there we shall take an
apartment for the winter, as other people do,
of course, and our introductions will bring us a
little society. One Italian count, of suitable
age, wants to marry you ; another, his nephew,
wants to marry me. But when matters come
to a point the notaries have muddled the
names, and, do what we will, you are married
to the young man and I to the old. Such
imbroglios are of daily occurrence.'

Well, I don't suppose we shall ever get to
Rome,' Mrs. de Eobcrt said, with her dry little

laugh. ' But we may perhaps get to Chas
Now, as if anything could possibly
happen to us at Chamouni!'

Miss Ivory looked more incredulous than
ever.

The very land of hazard and exploit ! The
first thing we are sure to hear on arriving is
that some unwary traveller is just lost in the
glaciers. Every soul in the place sets out in
the search. You join one party, I another
(by way of variety, we must not always keep
together) ; but your party is snowed up in the
chalet at the top of Mont Blanc for a week  -
mine starts off for Constantinople next day.
When we meet again, we shall both have
travelled half over Europe.'

Oh dear, how nice it would be ! but it will
never be, I am sure of that. Well, we may
perhaps get so far as Paris. That is certainly
not too much of an undertaking in these days.
Now, what on earth in the way of adventure
could happen to us in Paris V

As if Paris were not, after all, the only
place for adventure in the proper sense of the

word continued Miss Ivory, grave as before.
What, indeed, may not happen to us or to
anyone else in Paris ! We are sauntering,
for instance, in the quieter alleys of the Ijois
de Bologna. The ball of a pistol whizzes
just over our bonnets '

Oh dear !' cried Mrs. de Robert.

We hear a heavy thud,' serenely pursued
Miss Ivory, ' and come suddenly upon two
duellists, now embracing and the best of
friends. The wounded man beo-s us to shield
his antagonist of the minute before ; the other
implores us to do wdiat we can for the victim,
but to leave him to his fate. As the hurt is
but slight, we take back both in our carriage,
and find that we have made the acquaintance
of  whom do you think ?  the first tenor of
the Grand Opera and the star of the Theatre
Francis.'

After all, perhaps adventures as you invent
them are the most amusing. At my age, one
doesn't want shocks and commotion.'

And you are not like poor me. You are
not a novice in romance, a spinster ; you have

already tasted the sweets of love !' said
Eugenia, with an air of mock sentiment.

Mrs. de Eobert smiled an odd smile.

Humph ! the sweets of love, as you call
them ! Shall I tell you, Iveyy, the only love-like
speech my poor dear Afire ever made mein
his life ? It was on our honeymoon. He
said, " Do you know how it came about that I
fell desperately over head and ears with you V
I have not the remotest idea," said I.
"Well," said he, "it was when the horse shie(i
that day I drove you to the station. Out you
jumped  I never saw anything nimbler in my
life  showing the neatest ankle imaginable. I
vowed I would marry you if you would have
me." Now, Iveyy, you are a sensible girl.
You have your wits about you. Can you
imagine a man being such a fool as to marry a
woman for no better reason than that V

It was amiable  it was appreciative.'

Ah ! he was amiable enough  my darling
Affie ! One must die to be a darling ; I never
thought him one whilst he lived. " Affie !" I
would call from my bedroom door  " Affie,

love, come and lace up my stays !" and, no
matter what he was about, he always came
running like a hare. Yes; one must die to
be a darling, Jenny ; and that you will find
out.'

Fortunately, it is not a compliment we
can enjoy when paid to ourselves,' Eugenia
answered.

It is a compliment no one shall pay me,'
laughed Mrs. de Robert. 'That is w4iy I
want to dispose of the de Robert property,
and be free to make ducks and drakes of
my own. But, Eugenio, if nobody comes to
claim this Something to their advantage,
what then T

Mrs. de Robert had an odd habit of calling
people by any other name than the right one.
The nearest approach to correctness in Miss
Ivory's case was * Eugenio,' only made use of
when weighty matters impended.

Never fear,' answered the oracle. * Wait
a week, and the place will swarm with them.
The Social Science Congress, the Church Convocation,
the Salvation Army, and other

dreadful invasions of the last year or two will
be nothing to them

You make my hair stand on end T
ejaculated Mrs. de Eobert. ' What shall we
do with them all? I begin to feel that I
have done an imprudent, a wild thing.'

'Anything is better than twirling your
thumbs and doing nothing,' rejoined Eugenia.
Then she sighed. ' I feel it, Robert  cosy as
we are at Hopedale, we are gradually deteriorating
; another year or two of this existence
would  make us dull as oysters. We want
contact with other minds ; fresh experiences
of human nature  the good, the bad, and the
indifferent.'

You are right there. Poor dear Mr.

o

Bacchus, for instance. A worthier man never
twaddle-dum-dee'd in the pulpit ; yet how
tired we are of him ! And the Vicar ? What
is there to say against the Vicar, except that
he does not entertain us  just that, and
nothing; more. If I thoug;hfc he would ever
succeed in entertaining you, no inducement
would make me leave this dead-alive place.'

Lovers should never belong to the same
parish was the reply. ' They should sigh
for each other from afar, like the palm and the
fir-tree in the legend ; not be near neighbours,
like cabbages in the same garden. It is
naughty of me to say so ; but when in
tete-astute with the Vicar, I feel that we are
both as uninteresting as cabbages.'

He does not, I am sure. Never had any mana
better opinion of himself, or of you. There
he is at the garden-gate, with a letter in his
hand  from some claimant, of course. You maybe
sure of one thing, Iveyy  we shall have a hundred
famished rats after our morsel of cheese.'

Let them come,' said Eugenia blandly.
'twill be hard if we don't find one with
esprit out of the number.'

The Vicar of Hopedale presented a striking
contrast to his neighbour, the Curate of
Briardale. Everything about the Honourable
Reverend Altar Meridian was correctness
itself  name, appearance, deportment. Most
people, indeed, would have thought Miss
Ivory extremely fastidious to compare him fora

moment to a cabbage. Good-looking, well-read,
affable  how could lie or any other
woman possibly find fault with him ! He was
a clergyman, it is true, and his conversation
had to be toned down accordingly, quitting
such subjects as Mr. Ruskin's latest utterance,
or Mr. Browning's last poem, for old women's
flannel petticoats, the parochial lying-in-bag,
and the cropping of little girls' curls at the
Sunday-school. It was his misfortune, not
his fault, if he felt obliged to quote Scripture
now and then, whether occasion served or no.
Being a clergyman, it was hardly his fault
either that duty exacted short drawing-room
sermons to the more mundane of his lady
parishioners. Miss Ivory, for one, had to be
reproved for her persistent, her wilful indifference
on the subject of school-children's
curls, the parochial funeral bonnets, blankets,
and so forth.

Good-day, Mr. Meridian,' was Mrs. de
Eobert's blunt greeting. ' I hope, for once,
you are going to enliven us. Are they beginning
to come '? and who are they V

!Not commonplace mortals like ourselves,
surely V smiled Eugenia, as she rose and held
out a fair hand to the Vicar. ' Do not tell us
we are to be thus cruelly disenchanted.'

Miss Ivory seems to expect that heroes of
romance are as plentiful in real life as blackberries
Mr. Meridian said, smiling away the
edQ:e of his sarcasm. ' Nothing; short of a
Monte Christ, or at least an Edward
Rochester, will satisfy her. Well, I am sorry
to say apple-dumplings and not ambrosia
must be your fare to-day.'

Miss Ivory had ever a sarcasm to thing at
him in return.

It is at least something to know which is
which. You grant me that V

'Do tell us all about it,' put in ]airs. de
Eobert, eying the letter.

The Aicar, still looking at Miss Ivory,
retorted teasingly :

Whom should you expect but a batch of
poor curates with a dozen children apiece, or
half a dozen widows from Bath with a phalanx
of marriageable daughters V

Well, at any rate, they are not Hopedale
folks. There will be the charm of freshness,
of a certain kind of novelty replied Eugenia
coldly.

Come, Mr. Meridian, out with your news I
who is first in the field V asked Mrs. de
Eobert, beginning to lose patience.

Mr. Meridian thereupon, putting on an expression
as grave as if he were about to preach
a Lenten sermon, began :

ox THE QUI VIVE.

'E text of this letter I need hardly
give entire,' said the Eev. Mr.
Meridian, with a slightly pompous
air ; ' the writers, Miss Sabina Ricketts and
Miss Prudence Perfect '

Heaven bless us and save us !' cried Mrs.
de Robert, ready to burst forth with fury.
Are we to have all the gossiping old maids
from the four quarters of the globe ? They
must go home, pack and baggage. I'll not
give them a penny.'

They seem to be very estimable ladies,'
]pursued the Vicar, in a tone of mild approval ;
there can be no doubt of that. Deserving
objects '

Deserving objects are not what I am on
the look-out for,' Mrs. de Eobert cried, growing
more and more ireful. ' What I want is
my late husband's next of kin, his heirs direct;
their circumstances and deserts have nothing
to do with me.'

These poor ladies seem to be the very
persons wanted,' pursued the Vicar. * Their
papers are in order  that is to say, their
relationship to the late lamented Mr. de
Eobert is clearly made out.'

They are spinsters. Their names are not
his. I must have a married man with sons
to inherit the family heirlooms  or nobody,*
blurted out Mrs. de Eobert, in high dudgeon.

Unfortunately we cannot fabricate these
husbands and fathers to order smiled Eugenia
serenely ; ' and, after all, next of kin
is next of kin. Petticoats and chimney-pot
hats have nothing whatever to do with the
matter.'

But names have. The property must goto
a de Eobert, and to one else,' retorted Mrs.
de Eobert. * I am sure there must be a

VOL. I. 4

genteel young man of the true stock somewhere.'


But what if we cannot lay hands upon
him V Eugenia said, softening down matters
as best she could. * We must content ourselves
with Miss Sabina Rickets and Miss
Prudence Perfect. And who knows ? There
are spinsters even more interesting than your
genteel young men.' Thus saying, she glanced
at the Vicar.

'And far more malicious,' was his tart reply.

However, my dear Mrs. de Eobert, as the
poor ladies are here, what am I to say to
them ? what am I to do with them V

Don't come to me for advice,' Mrs. de
Robert answered snappishly. ' They are not
next of kin in the sense I intended. What
good can family heirlooms do a pair of single
women with one foot in the grave V

Nay, their respective ages hardly warrant
such an assertion as that,' said Mr. Meridian ;

let me read the dates to you from their certificates
of baptism.'

Throw their certificates of baptism in

the fire, for aught I care. Selina Beckett and
Patience Purfle are nothing to me, I say,' Mrs.
de Robert replied. ' The best thing they can
do is to go back from whence they came.'

Both Mr. Meridian and Miss Ivory were
accustomed to these bursts of temper, which
might well have disconcerted a stranger.
Eugenia now put in, as gravely as if Mrs. de
Robert were herself in the sweetest of
humours :

I don't think, Roberta dear, that you could *
well let the ladies go without first paying them
some attention  say, inviting them to tea.'

As you please. You and Mr. Meridian
can settle the matter between you ; only don't
expect me to entertain.'

Miss Ivory smiled encouragingly upon the
Vicar.

You will come to my aid, will you not V

Do I not ever turn my left cheek to the
smiter V was the reply.

Beautifully. But about this important
business of the tea, I had better let you know
later. I will call at the Vicarage then, when

42

UNIVERSITY OF
liUNOIS LIBRARY

Mrs. de Robert and I have talked the matter
over.'

It requires no talking over. The sooner
the better,' said Mrs. de Robert.

Unkind Mrs. de Robert ! you will not,
then, let me devise an errand to the Vicarage,
in order to disturb the Vicar over his sermons
the only crosses of his bachelor existence !'

If they were !' ejaculated Mr. Meridian ;
but I must be going. Good-day, ladies.
I remain inert till further orders.'

Mrs. de Robert was about to make provocative
retort, but before she could fairly begin,
her visitor was gone. Truth to tell, delightfully
odious as the Vicar found Miss Ivory at
all times, he did not relish the elder lady's
ill-temper. The more the beautiful Eugenia
satirized him the more adorable he found her ;
but Mrs. de Robert's tantrums upset his nerves
and deranged his digestion. Human beings,
to be properly understood, like the planetary
bodies, must be taken at the proper angle.
He had never discovered how to take Mrs. de
Robert at the proper angle.

Just like the Vicar ! He can always find
his way here when he has anything disagreeable
to say. But, Eugenio, I tell you for once
and for all, these tiresome, gossiping, cheese-paring
old maids shall have nothing. You
know what my darling Affie's wishes were 
ah ! one must die to be a darling, as I am
always saying ; I seldom thought him one
whilst he lived. I say, you know what his
wishes were.'

Wishes won't make the world spin backwards
; "and, though nothing would seem easier,
seeing how stupid they are, you can't manufacture
human beings to order Eugenia
said.

I shall wait, then. It was agreed between
us that at some time or other I should handover
the family plate, the jewels, the Murillo,
and all the rest of it, to my husband's next
of kin, and since my poor dear uncle died 
there, again !  when did I ever dream of
calling him dear in his lifetime ?  I have quite
enough of my own.'

Moreover, we want to quit Hopedale and

sally forth, like Don Quixote and Sancho
Panza, in search of adventure.'

Anything you like. Have it all your own
way, Jenny,' Mrs. de Robert replied, having
now quite recovered her temper. ' So long as
I get rid of the cumbersome old silver (which,
being at the bankers', might as well lie at the
bottom of the river Jordan) and the family
jewels (of no more good to me either thana
child's coral), I don't care. You see,
but for Affie's feeling about these things I
should have called myself plain Sarah Roberts
long a2:o. But he stuck to the de and the
Fleur de Us and the family motto, as Father
Abraham to the cave of Machpelah. He will
never rest in his grave if they go to the wrong
person.'

We will take good care of that. It would
be hard indeed if he could not rest there,'
Miss Ivory said soothingly.

They chatted a little longer over these
matters. Then, as soon as the afternoon sun
slanted over the apple-trees and the garden
was fresh and cool, Mrs. de Eobert put on her

sun-bonnet and betook herself to her favourite
task of gathering gooseberries and peas. Meantime,
Miss Ivory dressed herself and set out
for the village.

The young lady's appearance created more
interest and curiosity than the occasion would
seem to warrant. She was worth looking at,
certainly, whether rustically attired in broad -
brimmed straw-hat and light muslin gown as
to-day, or clad in one of those dark ricci
dresses she wore on wintry Sundays  pelisses
of softest velvet, tippets of rarest fur. But
the good villagers saw her pretty often all the
year round. Why, then, in Heaven's name,
should buxom Mrs. Cheeseman, the grocer's
wife, quit her sugar weighing to watch Miss
Ivory well out of sight ? Why should Miss Pry,
the postmistress, generally as automatic in
her movements as a sewing-machine, become
suddenly agile as an eel at the first glimpse of
Eugenia's parasol ? And Mr. Boning, the
butcher most prosaic of mortals, whose mental
vision seldom soared beyond a sirloin  how
came it about that he became all at once

absorbed in Miss Ivory's movements, and
quite indifferent to the leg of mutton he had
just unhooked for a customer ? The behaviour
of what is called society exhibited the
same inquisitiveness. Mrs. Leach, the doctor's
wife, who contrived to see all that went on
i'rom her craving-room window, watched the
passer-by as if she were a phenomenon. The
young ladies at the Lodge, daughters of the
retired brewer, Mr. Tubby, at sight of their
charming neighbour, lost all interest in the
croquet game. Mr. Hammer, the rich old auctioneer,
now retired and received, as the phrase
goes, dropped his newspaper and spectacles,
and called to his wife in the adjoining room :

Here comes Miss Ivory  Miss Ivory, my
dear I'

Like poor lo in the Greek story, the
beautiful Eugenia was pursued by a hundred
eyes. Not that they seemed in the least to
disconcert her. On she tripped towards the
Vicarage, bowing to this acquaintance, smiling
to that, and roguishly affecting a look of mystery
and importance.

Truth to tell, the subject uppermost in
people's minds just now was this business of
Mrs. de Robert's expected next of kin.

It was the first time anything had really happened
in the village ; that is to say, anything
out of the common way. There was no conceivable
reason why Hopedale folks should
want anything to happen. In this enviable
village matters invariably took their natural
course. No one did what his fathers had not
done before him. Youths and maidens paired
off in proper prosaic fashion ; elderly folks
made their wills and died in their beds. No
one was ever known to run away with his
neighbour's wife, much less to poison his own.
Yet so insatiable is human curiosity, so
blind the general desire to plunge into the
unknown, that these misguided inhabitants of
Hopedale became all at once dissatisfied.

No sooner was Mrs. de Robert's scheme
published abroad, than every soul in the place
developed a morbid craving for excitement.
Daily routine was suddenly found insupportable.
Everybody found everybody else as

dull as ditchwater. Ordinary affairs ceased to
possess the faintest interest. Mrs. de Eobert's
next of kin, and the something they were to
hear of to their own advantage, had fairly
turned people's heads.

The merest bagatelle connected with this
subject awakened interest curiosity. The
last relevant incident was speculated upon for
hours. Morning, noon and night the village
was on the alert. Events of some kind or other
must soon come to 'pass ; and what events !

Maidens conjured up a welcome invasion of
the other sex : bearded hosts from remote
corners of the globe ; gallant Hussars from the
Nilgherry Hills ; sunburnt frenchmen from
Texas ; Australasia, too, would surely send its
love-making contingent ; indeed, except from
Jupiter and the moon, whence might not an
heir of the de Roberts be expected ?

With older, prosper folks, speculation took a
material turn. Upholsterer, carpenter, and
mason were all reckoning up what jobs the
new owners of Hopedale would give them ;
for of course the place would be thoroughly

repaired and put in order by its new
occupant.

The gardener, in advance of the rest,
ordered a supply of exotics and ornamental
shrubs from the nearest town. The creation
of a flower-garden, in the modern sense of
the word, would be one of the first things
thought of.

Miss Cotton, the village milliner and dressmaker,
laid in a good supply of flowers and
ribbons, thread, buttons, and tape. There
would be plenty of picnics, pleasure-parties,
weddings, ere the season was over. She believed
all this as if she had read of it in the
pages of the prophet Jeremiah.

The big people, as well as the little, appropriated
to themselves their full share of
benefits.

Sir Percy Fitzallan, the largest landowner
hereabouts, had already in imagination added
the de Eobert estate to his own. It was
exactly what he wanted to make his property
neat and complete as a bandbox. Confound
that irascible old woman ! Why could she not

sell it to him quietly, and hand over the proceeds
to these heirs, if any turned up ? Well,
he should get it now ; that was quite certain.
Who, in his sober senses, would not thankfully
exchange a ramshackle old house and a
few hundred acres of poor land for a handsome
sum down ?

Mr. Gabelle, architect, land-surveyor, and
building speculator, was also already the new
proprietor of Hopedale Manor  in so far, at
least, as imagination was concerned. The
neighbourhood was fast improving. Briar-dale
promised to develop into a favourite
summer resort. The Lake country lay within
easy reach. Lastly, Mrs. de Robert's house
was only a quarter of a mile from the parish
church ; and no one could say a word against
the Vicar's doctrine  no taint there ! The
outlay of a few hundred pounds would turn
the place into the very thing for a retired
Manchester man ; ' and it shall not slip
through my fingers, if my name is Augustus
Gabelle,' said the enterprising architect to
himself.

One and another, the good people at
Hopedale were in the mental condition of
spectators gathered round a gaming-table.
The croupier was at his post  the stakes were
laid ; the issues of the game no mortal could
foretell.

IN THE CURATE S GAIJDEX.

H dear !' cried the Rev. Mr.
Bacchus ; ' there is Miss Ivory
and the Yicar I I had better leave
you, I think ; their business is sure to be With
you, not me.'

Three days had elapsed since that tremendous
adventure of the ditch, for tremendous
it seemed to the two inexperienced
travellers, Sabina Ricketts and Prudence Perfect.
They were still under the Curate's roof,
and still likely to be.

Really,' their host had said, on the second
morning after their arrival, ' really now, why
on earth should you not stay on here ? The

friend I spoke of is not coming after all, and I
have let lodgings before. Well, not let lodgings
exactly, but in my poor wife's time we
always had some one with us who paid for
everything  the same thing in the end.'

The two ladies blushed and stammered very
much, finally screwed up courage to allude
to payment. The Rev. Mr. Bacchus cut
them short, and made their minds easy upon
that score, and everything was comfortably
settled. It was the greatest possible relief to
him, he said ; for with only Jane in the house
he always came home expecting, like the
Aicar of Wakefield, to find the place burnt to
the ground.

The sight of the Curate's hat and great-coat
hanging up in the hall, Sabina said, reminded
her of old days, of the lost Edwin. She could
not understand how it was, but she always
felt quite safe with a hat and great-coat
hanging up in the hall.

As to Prue, she already looked and felt
younger by years. She enumerated in the
delicious, the rejuvenating sense of romance.

Not an hour under the Curate's roof, not an
incident but Alas significant, touched with the
spell of novelty and suggestion.

The chats over the frugal table ; the taking
part in the management of his house ; the
strolls with their host and the children  all
these experiences were bewildering and delightful.


Oh dear !' then cried the Curate, in a
voice of positive alarm ; ' there is Miss Ivory
and the Vicar.'

It was now evening, and peace brooded
over the small domain. The baby was in its
first sound sleep. Georgie, who put himself
to bed whenever he chose, on this occasion
had chosen to do it betake?. The rose-embowered
cottage and straggling garden were
bathed in the warm, amber light of parting
day.

There seemed no reason why such perfect
tranquillity should be disturbed by these
visitors. The place, alike within and without,
was just then orderly. There was nothing for
the Curate to be ashamed of about his own

appearance. He no longer had on his hands
those domestic duties that entailed personal
untidiness  the making of baby's puddings,
or cooking the family dinner, and so forth.
The errand of the two ladies, his inmates,
and the fact of their sojourn under his
roof, had been duly announced at the Manor
and the Vicarage. Why, then, should Mr.
Bacchus shrink from Miss Ivory with looks so
deprecatory, so apologetic, as much as to say
that he was very sorry, he felt everything
about him was wrong and unsatisfactory; in
fact, just the opposite of what things ought to
be ; but he could not help it  he could not,
really ?

The Vicar gave Miss Ivory his hand as she
alighted from the basket-carriage, and fastened
the pony to the gate ; then the pair advanced
towards their host with the smiling affability
of intruders sure of a welcome. Eugenia's
expression indicated something more. There
was real cordiality, nay, feeling, in the look
with which she no\Y met the two timid, hesitating
strangers.

VOL. I. 5

 Dear me I' cried the Curate; 'what am I
thinking about, not to introduce you ? I
never kno\y what I am thinking about, I am
sure. Mrs. de Robert's relations  Miss Ivory',
the Aicar of Ilopedale.'

Ever reproaching yourself for imaginary
shortcomings,' Eugenia said. ' Indeed, there
was no need of introductions ; but Mr.
Bacchus will die of a tender conscience some
day, I always tell him.'

Imaginary shortcomings, indeed !' replied
the Curate, standing first on one foot, then on
the other, with the look of the guiltiest mortal
alive. Xow he was red, then pale; one moment
apparently on the verge of despair, the next
relieved from some dire suspense.

I had better leave you all, I had indeed,'
lie began aijain.

On no account,' smiled Eugenia. ' Whilst
the Yicar congratulates with our new friends,
you must show me your roses.'

Air. Meridian turned from the pair with the
assurance of a suitor who has no rival. So
legible the thought, ' If I cannot satisfy Miss

Ivory's aspirations, who can ?* he might almost
have uttered it aloud. Evidently not caring
how long the Curate might detain Eugenia
among his roses, only perhaps annoyed that
she should suffer herself to be so detained, he
now gave his mind to the fulfilment of his
errand.

Miss Ivory will have a little conversation
with you later,' he began, sitting down on the
rustic bench beside the pair; 'but not on
matters of business. These my respected
friend Mrs. de Robert leaves entirely in my.
hands. 

Of course  certainly  we are much obliged
to you,' Sabina and Prue said nervously.
Was it possible that they were to learn their
fate then and there ?

Meantime Eugenia and the Curate had
reached the standard-roses at the other end of
the garden.

'I don't know how it is said Mr. Bacchus;
*my roses never turn out as well as other
people's, yet I give myself no end of trouble
about them.'

52

*What fault can you possibly find With
this ?' asked Miss Ivory, bending over a
magnificent Gloire de Dijon.

Of course if you find it perfection, I have
nothing more to say; I am delighted,' answered
Mr. Bacchus, bringing out his pocketknife
to clip it for her.

That is not the point,' pursued Eugenia.
My opinion has nothing to do with the
real merits of the rose. Where are the
blemishes you allude to ?'

He had offered her the rose, and she now
held it up scrutinizingly.

I don't know that it has any blemishes,'
he replied. ' I hope not, I am sure, since you
are good enough to accept it.'

Eugenia still held up his gift, smiling reproachfully.


You have perceptions, at least I suppose
so,' she said. ' You know if anything is
beautiful or hideous, or if it appears beautiful
or hideous ?'

'Oh yes! I wont disown perceptions; I
wish I could. How much happier people

would be if they had no perceptions  I often
think that!' rejoined the Curate.

And I think exactly the contrary. It
seems to me that the more perceptions we
have, and the stronger they are, the happier
we must be as a natural consequence.*

Yes, you always think exactly the opposite
of what I think,' was the rueful reply. ' I do
wish for once, just for once now, that we two
could think alike. It would be such a
pleasure to me.'

We think alike about thousands of thing s'
Eugenia said. ' You believe, for instance,
that two and two make four, and that the
world turns upside down once a year ; so do
I. But if we talked from morning to night
on such subjects, should we be any the
wiser ?'

Why should people always want to begetting
wiser ?' asked Mr. Bacchus. ' I never
could conceive why myself.'

Why should people always want to begetting
stupider ?' rejoined Eugenia. ' If the
only object of conversation were to find out

how many people think alike, the world would
soon be peopled with brainless idiots.'

Oh dear !' cried the Curate, ' that would
be too terrible. I should not like to have the
place swarming with brainless idiots. I often
feel like one myself.'

Then,' smiled Eugenia sweetly, ' you see
how advisable it is for the best of friends to
lead a cat-and-dog life of it  conversationally,
I mean. By this means they sharpen each
other's wits, and worry each other into a
proper state of wide wakefulness.'

Pray worry me, then, as much as you
please. I always feel that I want to lee
waked up.'

You are certainly wide-awake when you
graft your roses, however sleepy you are when
you gather them,' was the reply. ' Your show
is the finest I have seen this year.'

How kind of you to encourage me ! That
is just what I want, a little friendly encouragement.'


You may then give me as many roses as
you please, if you call acceptance encouragement,'

Miss Ivory said, with a distractingly
benevolent smile ; and clip, clip, away went
the Curate's pocket-knife, devastating right
and left.

Stop, I entreat you !' cried Eugenia, aghast.
Must you have mathematical precision upon
every occasion ? Should I say, " One white,
one red, one yellow rose," as if I were selecting
French flowers in a milliner's shop, at sixpence
apiece ? I take these,' she added,
accepting half a dozen  ' three for Mrs. de
Robert and three for myself  and pray leave
the rest where they are. You are much too
generous.'

Am I really ? Am I too much of anything
? I only wish I could think so. I
always feel exactly the reverse, as if I were
too little, desperately little, next to nothing
of anything. I often wonder how people feel
who have a really first-rate opinion of themselves.
It must be so agreeable, like coming
into a fortune.'

It ought to be an easy thing to learn. We
have plenty of examples,' Miss Ivory rejoined.

quietly satirical ; then she glanced mischievously
towards the group on the rustic bench.

All this time furtive feminine glances from
the rustic bench had followed the Curate and
his guest.

Whilst the Vicar paid no attention whatever
to the persiflage among the roses, and Sabina
waited in an agony of suspense for his revelations,
Prue's thoughts were in two places at
once. Her interest in the disclosures to come
was as keen as Sabina's ; she listened with
rapidly beating heart for the next word Mr.
Meridian should utter, but at the same time
she was mindful of all o-olna- on at the other
end of the garden. The Curate's proffered
rose; the beautiful Miss Ivory's acceptance;
her sparkling banter; his hesitation, more eloquent
than ready speech; the cordiality existing
between the pair  nothing was missed
by that eager listener and looker-on.

Under other circumstances Prue would
have checked these feelings, so far mastered
herself as to allow no betrayal of emotion; but
could she, could any mortal be expected to

look calm and indifferent at such a moment ?
On the lips of the Yicar hung fate and destiny,
the acme of fortune or humiliating disenchantment.
Quite excusably, therefore, she
might falter, change colour, tremble, and even
show starting tears. The real cause of her
agitation none could guess. Sabina, too, Prue
saw, with great satisfaction, was no calmer
than herself The little woman showed the
strangest inclination to laugh and cry at the
same time. As she afterwards told. Prue in
confidence, waiting for the Vicar's disclosures
was like waiting for poor dear Edwin's offer
over again. She had never forgotten how she
felt when he was on the verge of speaking out.
It was as if the earth had yawned at her feet ;
and it was as if the earth yawned at the feet of
both now.

BONGO.

MUST first explain began the
Yicar, ' that Mrs. de Robert will
not allow any claimants  unless,
indeed, their number should prove legion  to
be put to expense in this matter. At least, in
your own case, the cost of this journey will
be defrayed, whether it is made to good
purpose or in vain.'

How kind, how considerate T cried Sabina
and Prue in a breath.

So greatly were their minds relieved by
this piece of intelligence, that they felt as if
they had come into a small fortune already.
Both laughed aloud, but feeling ready to cry

the next moment. Those last words the
Vicar had used  those ill-omened words ' in
vain-seemed to scatter their hopes to the
winds ; and just then Prue saw Eugenia
fastening the Curate's rose to her dress.

You must kindly bear in mind that Mrs.
de Eobert is entirely a free agent in the
disposal of her late husband's property,' continued
Mr. Meridian. ' It was legally willed
to her without any conditions whatever, and
she is bound by Mr. de Eoberfc's wishes only
to cast about for an heir. Then there is the
question of suitability ;' and as he said this,
Mr. Meridian looked significantly and penetratingly
at his hearers.

Sabina and Prue were once more on the
verge of tears. Yes, both felt already convinced
that they had drawn blanks in a
lottery. It w-as about as likely that they
should be found suitable as that they should
discover perpetual motion, or invent a flying-machine.
Prue glanced at the animated
figures of Miss Ivory and her adoring cavalier
with a sinking of the heart. Roses, adoration,

the more poetic aspect of life, such
things were not for her. Sabina thought of
Edwin lying in his cold grave, and resigned
herself. The Yicar went on :

The heir must be suitable, and the decision
of such suitability rests with Mrs. de Robert
herself. In the natural order of things, an
heir-direct may be of either sex ; but in this
case, not only a continuer of the race is
wanted, but one in whose person the race will
in all likelihood be continued. Mrs. de Robert
hopes, in fact, to find a male descendant of
the family.'

Of course ; wee quite understand  how
stupid of us not to think of it !' ejaculated
the pair, trying, in some degree, to veil their
discomfiture.

They had told themselves over and over
again to expect such a disillusion ; it was
none the less hard to bear when it came.

At the same time,' said Mr. Meridian, a
kind-hearted man enough in his own way  to
be kind-hearted in other people's way is quite
another matter  ' you have taken a proper

course in coming to Hopedale. Mrs. de Robert
is the last person in the world to overlook
that fact ; and if she is reluctantly compelled
to waive your claims to the property in toto,
she will not, I am sure, permit you to go back
empty-handed. '

That last piece of information was balm of
Gilead, indeed. Sabina looked delighted
beyond measure. Prue's eyes brightened ;
then she glanced towards the standard-roses,
feeling that after all, although it did not
matter in the least  although, as Sabina said,
nothing really mattered  a fifty-pound, a
twenty-pound  aye, even a ten-pound note
would be an immense comfort.

Mrs. de Eobert will act honourably  that
is what I meant to say,' added the Vicar.
She will not let you be losers by undertaking
this journey. Into particulars of the nature
and value of the property I am not now at
liberty to enter. All these facts will be communicated
later dien other claimants have
come forward.'

He seemed to have done speaking, when an

odd smile rose to his lips. He was thinking
of the contrast presented by his own statement
of the case, and the way in which Mrs.
de Robert had just put it. What would these
two timid ladies think could they hear her
tirades ?

There is yet one point T am bound to hint
at,' he said, rising. ' My respected friend is
somewhat whimsical and peculiar. You must
not allow yourselves to be disconcerted, much
less affronted, by anything she may say. Mrs.
de Eobert is disappointed at having so far
failed in her object, at the non-appearance of
the wished-for heir. She will not, perhaps,
receive you as cordially as a kinswoman should;
but pray take no notice of her singularities,
which really mean nothing  I mean, nothing to
object to seriously.'

Mr. Meridian paused, feeling, as well he
might, that he had performed his task in the
best possible manner. How poor Mr. Bacchus
would have blundered and stumbled and cas-violated
himself over it ! How he would have
omitted particulars, and blundered out indiscretions

! It was satisfactory to the Yicar to
feel that what he did was ever well done.
No wonder that he enjoyed an undisturbed
digestion and unbroken calm of mind.

Eugenia now came up with her hands full
of roses, the Curate following.

I am sure I have detained Miss Ivory too
long he said, apologetically. ' I don't know
how it is, I always do detain people too long.'

Some people, I presume,' replied Mr. Meridian
; he was always suavity itself, almost
patronizing indeed, to this poor, over-con;
science, hesitating Mr. Bacchus. The wonder
was, often laughed the Vicar, that Mr. Bacchus
had ever possessed decision enough to come
into the world at all.

On the contrary, however,' he added pleasantly,
' I have only just finished what I had
to say.'

Only just,' said Sabina and Prue, both
rising to greet Miss Ivory.

And I must only begin what I have to
say, leaving the rest till tomorrow  no, tomorrow
is Sunday ; till the day after tomorrow,

then,' said Eugenia. * Mrs. dc
Eobert hopes you will come on Monday and
take tea with us in the garden. I am sure
Mr. Bacchus will be delighted to drive you.'

How could she be sure, thought Prue, unless
unless ! And yet was it at all likely that
this handsome girl could favour the suit of a
poor Curate  a widower, moreover, with two
children ?

No, Eugenia only spoke with the happy
unconcern of youth, good looks, and prosperous
circumstances. She mio-ht be something:
to Mr. Bacchus, but Mr. Bacchus could never
be anything to her.

How kind ! We shall both be delighted !'
Sabina replied, looking at Prue, wondering
why she did not answer for herself.

Then, as it is growing late, we had better
take leave of our friends,' Eugenia said to the
Vicar. Hands were shaken, friendly little
speeches exchanged ; Mr. Bacchus held her
roses whilst Mr. Meridian helped her into the
pony carriage, then they set off.

To drive across country in a gig with a

handsome woman was the great Johnson's
ideal of worldly enjoyment.

Very likely the Kev. Mr. Meridian would
have held the same opinion if only Lewti would
be kind, as Coleridge's poem runs. ' For Lewti
never will be kind ' was an idea wholly unacceptable.
With the wilfulness, too, of human
nature, he wanted in the beautiful piquant
Eugenia the very qualities he acknowledged
insipid elsewhere  feminine acquiescence ; that
deference due from the intellectually weak to
the intellectually strong ; that smiling submissiveness
and blushing appeal of which he
had enough and to spare whenever he went
into society. The Vicar of Hopedale came of
good stock ; he was handsome, agreeable, of
easy circumstances, and quite sure, sooner or
later, to be preferred. More than one girl
tried her best to please him, but none pleased
except Miss Ivory, and she would never try.

'Do let me drive you,' she said, as soon as
they were fairly on the way.

To refuse this request would have been
hardly courteous, as the pony carriage be-vol.

I. 6

longed to himself. He handed her the reins,
and leaned back, looking at her with a recommending,
almost supercilious smile.

It always amuses me immensely,' he said,
this assumption of superiority on the part of
your sex. In the matter of driving, for instance.
Why, in the name of good sense,
must you ever want to make the man sitting
beside you look like a poor incapable V

Eugenia did not reply immediately. She
always relished the taste of handling the
Vicar's reins. The pony had spirit, and went
well. The road was uphill and downhill, but
broad and smooth. She got the animal into
an expeditious humour, and away they rattled
as if their very lives depended on reaching
Hopedale in a given space of time. Then she
turned to make answer :

If you want an uncharitable speech, go to
a clergyman for it, I say. Cannot a womau
indulge in a little harmless amusement without
a mean motive V

'Don't turn me over into that ditch,' said
the Vicar.

Eugenia, it must be confessed, liked to go
perilously near angles in driving ; to round a
corner in a manner that made her companion
tremble ; to all but graze the wheels of passing
vehicles.

I think it would do everybody all the good
in the world to be turned into a ditch now
and then !' she replied, thinking at the same
time that she should not choose to be thrown
into a ditch with the Vicar.

Mr. Meridian sat half wishing that the
pony would for once deceive its daring conductress
in her reckoning. Always supposing
that only a bruise or two, and a few breakages
in the harness, came of it, he would
have quite enjoyed a misadventure just then 
Miss Ivory so richly deserved it. The provoking
part of the business was that no
woman ever more graced a gig than Eugenia.
As she sat bolt upright minding her reins, any
passer-by must have turned to take a second
look at that charming; picture. There was
much more than mere grace and feminine
bewitchingness here. The fair, animated face,

62

shaded by the straw-hat ; the figure slender
yet strong  these were attractive enough in
themselves, but far more so for what they indicated
: an alert understanding, a generous
initiative, nobleness in little things, a high,
daring spirit.

Mr. Meridian chose not to fit the proffered
cap.

Poor Bacchus, for instance !' he said.
His ideas want shaking up, like the fragments
of glass in a kaleidoscope.'

I am sure I cannot conceive why you
should always pity Mr. Bacchus,' Miss Ivory
said, driving with mor apparent recklessness
than ever. She knew perfectly well what she
was about, but delighted in giving Mr.
Meridian a succession of little frights. ' He
possesses those very virtues you exhort us toon
Sundays  humility, modesty, and so forth.'

*Mind that gate, for heaven's sake!' interposed
the Vicar.

This time, indeed, a collision seemed inevitable.
The wheels all but grazed the gate-post.
They were safe, however, and he breathed freely.

We can't admonish wool-gathering wits in
the pulpit,' was his reply. ' I was thinking of
our poor friend's mental shortcomings, absence
of mind, inappropriateness of speech  in fact,
you know well enough what was in my
thoughts.'

Eugenia would not have the Curate depreciated
just then. She knew that Mr. Meridian
really meant well towards Mr. Bacchus. He
had often done him a good turn ; but although
free from jealousy, he could never bear to hear
him praised by Miss Ivory.

I like everything about Mr. Bacchus 
even his name,' she retorted viciously.

Well,' rejoined the Vicar, growing vicious
in turn, ' he is not at all likely to be a
Bishop ; that is one comfort. Bishop Bacchus !
would you like the sound of that V

Yes replied Eugenia, quite gravely. * It
would be a precedent. I like precedents.
Bishop Bacchus preaching in London would
remind one of St. Paul at Athens. Heathendom
and Christendom met together.'

They had now left the glint of silvery sea

and parting' hills far behind. On either side
stretched cool, dewy pastures and larch-woods,
their arrowy tops clearly outlined against the
pure, pale sky. Night was fast coming on ;
with every moment the hour grew more tranquil
and beautiful, more romantic also. The
Vicar began to grow impatient. Was this
long, delicious drive to be occupied with unprofitable
quarrels 1  alas ! not in any sense
lovers' quarrels. Self-confident although he
was, he wanted to feel surer of his ground ; to
make, in fact, a beginning of what he felt was
destined to be an end.

Bacchus, then,' he replied amiably, ' shall
become a Bishop to please you. That we will
consider settled. But to change the subject.
You do not mean to say that as soon as Mrs.
de Eobert has got this business off her hands,
you both intend to forsake us altogether ?'

They had reached a bit of newly-mended
road, and Miss Ivory was compelled to let the
pony go at a snail's pace. She answered in
those matter-of-fact tones with which she was
wont to utter the most startling statements.

We are indeed. We have made up our
minds to undertake a voyage of exploration in
Central Africa.'

You are making fun of me !' the Vicar replied,
almost morosely.

Why should I make fun of you V Eugenia
said, looking him full in the face. * I do
assure you this is our intention, provided I
can keep Mrs. de Eobert up to it. We have
talked over the matter of our travels for
months past. Neither of us have ever been
out of England as yet. We want to see something,
wonderful, and what can we see wonderful
nearer home ? Switzerland, Norway, Italy 
every schoolgirl knows these . places by heart
nowadays. When Mrs. de Eobert and myself
set forth, like Don Quixote and Sancho
Panza, in search of adventure, wee mean to doit
in right good earnest.'

And Quixotic I much fear your adventures
will be,' Mr. Meridian said, unable to conceal
his vexation.

Not appearing to see her companion's discomfiture,
she continued :

There is one spot on the surface of the
globe I would imperil my life to see, from
motives of sheer curiosity ; and I have almost
succeeded in working Mrs. de Eobert up to
an equal pitch of enthusiasm. Did you ever
hear of a place called Bongo V

No more than the man in the moon,' was
the ruffled reply.

Truth to cell, Mr. Meridian wished Bongo
at the bottom of the sea. They were provokingly
near the village. The evening star
shone. Could any hour be more propitious
for speaking out ? But Bongo  Bongo I
Eugenia would harp on the hateful theme,
hardly letting him put in a word.

I read an account of Bong;o in a book of
travels some time ago, and it has haunted me
ever since,' the young lady went on. ' Fancy
a lovely park-like wilderness '

You shall tell me all about Bongo another
time,' Mr. Meridian managed to edge in. ' I

want just now to talk '

Do listen,' Eugenia said, warming to her
subject. ' Fancy beautiful rivers, with wonderful

birds ! the osprey, the Sake-necked cormorant
'

All very interesting, no doubt Mr.
Meridian interrupted snappishly. ' Only it
happens that '

And then the vegetation !' Eugenia added,
not appearing to hear him. * Lofty sycamore,
fig, and acacia trees ; and, sporting about the
glades, the giraffe and the antelope.'

 A marvellous place, indeed ; but one
moment now '

The first white cottage of Hopedale gleamed
amid the dusky shadows, scents of lilies and
roses betokened villa gardens, and still Eugenia
would talk of nothing but Bongo.

And the flowers ! The ground is carpeted
with them in a day. Fruit, too  we should
almost live upon fruit at Bongo '

It all sounds delightful in the extreme,'
the Yicar got in. ' I shall like to read the
account you refer to, if you will kindly lend
it to me. Do, however, just '

I can't think of anything but Bongo at
this moment,' Miss Ivory answered. ' You

see, claimants are sure to turn up plentiful as
blackberries. Mrs. de Robert's affairs will be
settled in no time, and I must get her to
start whilst she is in the humour. And
Bongo '

The Vicar's patience was fairly exhausted.
They were now in the middle of the village,
and the Manor House lay only a quarter of a
mile off. That detestable, that  but for his
calling  damnable Bongo had spoiled his
drive. He heartily wished that African discovery
had been reserved for another epoch.
Mungo Park, Bruce, Livingstone, Stanley,
Cameron  why could they not keep their
adventures to themselves ?

And Bongo,' resumed Eugenia, with great
animation, ' should be visited in winter-time
in February, at the very latest. Now, if I
can only prevail upon Mrs. de Eobert to
embark in this enterprise, we must start in
October.'

Mr. Meridian laughed derisively.

Is it at all likely ? At Mrs. de Eobert's
age ! Such a journey ! Two ladies starting

alone for Central Africa ! The very idea is
preposterous !'

All new ideas seem preposterous Eugenia
answered, as she quickly and neatly turned
the sharp corner leading to the Manor House
gate   to some minds, I mean.'

Then they bade each other good evening,
Eugenia's last words being :

You shall be sure to have that account of
Bongo the first thing on Monday morning.'

THE MYSTERIOUS LETTERS.

HEN followed Sunday; and what a
day of peace it might have been,
but for Mrs. de Eobert's ' next of
kin ' and the ' something they were to hear to
their advantage ' ! Not at all likely that these
hungered and thirsted after fortune, no matter
to what creed or quarter of the globe they
belonged, should exercise Sabbatarian reserve;
keeping back their claims and pedigrees till
the Monday. Could Mrs. de Robert expect,
of this summoning of spirits from the vasty
deep, anything else but the cloud no bigger
than a man's hand that should develop into an
army? Should not any of us, if we advertised

for heirs direct, look for the very heavens
to be darkened with them, as with a plague of
locusts ? What could have induced her to
take initiative so daring ? Why could she
not have enjoyed her husband's property
whilst she lived, and let his next of kin
squabble over it as they list, after her death ?
Many were her reasons for a line of conduct
so opposed to humdrum common-sense and
tea-table philosophy.

In the first place, Mrs. de Robert wished
to please her ' Eugenio,' and ' Eugenio ' was.
bent upon seeking romance and adventure.
Romance in the ordinary acceptance of the
word she did not want.

There are some women, place them no
matter where you will, who straightway find
as many admirers as they can count on their
fingers ; and the beautiful Miss Ivory belonged
to this category. And there are some women,
the more homage of a certain kind they get,
the less they care about it; and Miss Ivory
belonged to this category also. She did not
in the least want any man or any number of

men to sentimentalize about her. She was
ready enough to tease them for their pains,
but her mind was full of other things. She
yearned after romance and adventure of wholly
different kind. This sociable, comfortable,
careless life at Hopedale was well enough in its
way. No possible fault could be found either
with the place or the people, but she wanted
to be able to compare places and people, to
compare life and the world with the descriptions
given of them in books ; in fine, to
fashion her own existence, outline it, colour
it, touch it up to please herself Xow, up till
the present time such choice had not been
possible.

The setting forth, like Don Quixote and
Sancho Panza, in search of adventure is not
easy upon modest means. When, at last, Miss
Ivory became sole mistress of her own fortune,
and Mrs. de Robert inherited so much money
as to make her quite independent of her late
husband's property, then the two could put
their heads together and scheme.

The first thing to be done, Eugenia declared,

was to find the wished-for heir ; and the family
heirlooms satisfactorily disposed of, they should
be free to go where they liked, and stay as
long as they pleased. Mrs. de Robert had no
sentimental scruples about quitting Hopedale.
She did not wish to end her days in this
North country village, just because Mr. de
Robert had tempted her thither twenty years
ago. Tempted her from Bath, ease and
spinsterhood  sometimes secretly looked back
upon with regret !

Eugenia, orphan daughter of Mrs. de
Robert's oldest friend, was still more untravelled.
She had not yet been as far south
as Bath. Neo wonder, therefore, that Bongo
had such attractions for her. Yes, it was
settled ; they would go to Bongo, and there
spend delightfully Eastern days after the
manner of Lady Hester Stanhope and Lady
Duff Gordon. Nothing: short of Bonae
would satisfy Eugenia, and nothing short of
satisfying Eugenia would content Mrs. de
Robert.

That Sunday I The household would never

forget it !  one memorable episode out. of
many in the wonderful history of Mrs. de
Robert's next of kin, and the something they
were to hear to their advantage. It was
ii perfect summer morning, and, as usual,
Eugenia strolled in the garden before church.
Hopedale Manor, although a childless, was
not a careless, douglass household. At Eugenia's
heels followed a couple of pet dogs, who
regretfully recognised the fact that it was
Sunday, and that therefore they must not
follow their mistress beyond the garden gate.
The sagacious animals could sniff a Prayer-book
as well as any born Methodist.

A very Ethiop of a cat sunned itself on the
wall. Tame pigeons peopled the place. Hens
cackled in the farmyard close by. Eugenia
looked hither and thither in search of an appropriate
flower. Her dress Alas of that pale
amber colour so becoming to her dark hair
and pearly complexion. She chose a flower-head
of deep violet pecunia, and was adjusting
to her buttonhole when Mrs. de Robert's
voice was heard at the side door.

Jenny, Jenny!' she cried, with much animation
; ' do come indoors. Another !'

Eugenia obeyed the summons alertly. She
knew well enough what that word ' another *
meant. The plot thickened. A new claimant
was in the field. Bongo seemed already
leagues nearer. Mrs. de Robert, like Eugenia,
was dressed for church. The Yicar never
told her anything, she said, she had not heard
a dozen times before. But church-going, if it
taught nothing else, at least taught resignation.
Yes, folks ought to go to church in order to
learn how to be bored with a good grace ! So
she growled and grumbled, but as regularly
as Sunday morning came round, put on black
silk gown and velvet mantle, and went to
church all the same. She now held up an
open letter.

The Yicar has just sent this. I don't
suppose he will bring any more letters himself,'
she said with a grim laugh, thinking
how badly she had received him the day
before. ' But read it, do, Jenny ! I can make
neither head nor tail of it myself.'

VOL. I. 7

Mrs. de Robert had wisely interposed Mr.
Meridian as a moral buffer between herself
and these terrible next of kin. In order to
avoid possible unpleasantness, all applications
Averse to be made in the first instance to the
Vicar. No one could communicate with Mrs.
de Robert except through his mediation, and
all letters came under cover to the Vicarage.

The ladies re-entered the house. Eugenia
closed the door of the breakfast-parlour, laid
down her flower-scissors, and began to read :

" Gibraltar, July 13, 1875.

" Madam and dear Cousin " '

Some flattering flibbergib that !' broke in
Mrs. de Robert. ' However, go on. AVe
can't expect next of kin to be angels and archangels.
We are all like so many dogs hanging
on to a bone when it comes to a legacy. But
let me have the rest.'

With great relish, evidently wishing not
one, but twenty such letters, would come
every day, Eugenia continued :

" Under cover to your respected Vicar  " '

The specious, double-faced, smooth-tongued
hypocrite ! Not a penny he shall get, Eugenio,
mark my word ! How does he know whether
the Vicar is respected or not ? and, respected
or not, what can it matter to him ? Go on,
my dear.'

" According to the instructions conveyed in
your esteemed advertisement " '

The journeying backslider ! I'll warrant
you he is that,' Mrs. de Robert jerked outgrowing
more and more wrathful.

She wanted these worthy people to come
forward ; but the faster they came, the less
she liked it.

" I now write to say that I have got my
pedigree in order, and start overland by next
mail " '

Lord help us!' Mrs. de Robert ejaculated.
I'll tell you what, Jenny, we will go to
Bath, and leave Mr. Meridian to battle with
it. The place will soon swarm with them :
they will be at loggerheads one with another.
It will be worse than battle, murder and

72

sudden death. No, could I have foreseen all
this, I would not have advertised for a thousand
pounds

Eugenia continued to read with the same
alertness. The letter interested her greatly :

 '' For the home of my ancestors " '

Ancestors ! fiddle-de-dee ! What business
has he to have any ancestors, I wonder !' Mrs.
de Robert cried irefully.

He could not grow on a tree like a chestnut,'
remonstrated Eugenia mildly, and went
on with her letter :

" It will give me the utmost possible gratification
to make your acquaintance " '

The only gratification he shall get out of
me. I can tell him that, beforehand !' Mrs.
de Robert cried, with one of her meaning
looks.

" And whilst, at the same time, I do not
conceal from you the fact that any substantial
benefits accruing from my visit will be
joyfully welcomed, you may rest assured

THE MYSTERIOUS LETTERS. loi

that they will be put to truly Christian

J) >
uses

I dare say ! Converting the JeAvs, clothing
the Zulus, teaching poor innocent Fijians to
besot themselves with gin ! He is a missionary
or something of the kind, I'll warrant
you. Not a silver groat shall he have, if my
name is Sarah Roberts.'

" Meanwhile, commending you to Heaven

" '

Hocus-pocus !' was the vindictive retort. ,
As my poor mother used to say, true religion
consists in minding your own business. He
shall go back quicker than he came, and with
a flea in his ear too, mark my word ! Well,
"finish the letter, and then I will put it into the
kitchen fire.'

" I remain, madam and dear cousin, yours
devotedly, John Fitz Henry de Robert " '

Fitz Gimcrack ! Why can't people go
about the world without such a mouthful of
names ? Come, Iveyy ! burn the letter, and
let's be off to church.'

Miss Ivory was examining the signature
with great attention.

'john Fitz henry de Robert, S.J."
Senior, Junior  no ; he would not be both at
the same time. I am fairly puzzled, Roberta.
The name is followed by two initials which
look like S.J. Now what can the letters S.J.
stand for r'

S. for Slyboots and J. for Jackass ! That
is how I learned in my cross row, and it is
near enough now, depend on it.'

No,' Eugenia replied, with eyes still benton
the superscription.  These letters must
have a meaning. S. stands for so many
things, Sergeant - Major, Surgeon - Dentist 
heaps of words ; but what J. can stand for
immediately after S., I am at a loss to conceive.
Let me think. Let me conjecture.'

Yell, you can think in church. Mr.
meridian won't prevent you, I am sure,' Mrs.
de Robert said. ' Into the fire with it, and
let's be off.'

jut Eugenia would not rest satisfied till
she had solved the problem. She gazed upon

those mysterious symbols as intently as
people look into their hats on entering
church.

*I have it at last !' she cried, with great
animation. ' What else should S.J. mean
but the Society of Jesus ? Yes, there is nota
particle of doubt. The new claimant is a
Jesuit r

OIL ON TROUBLED WATERS.

then he shall not enter these doors.
His shadow shall not darken my
garden !' Mrs. de Robert exclaimed,
alike patience and fortitude fairly
spent. ' You draw the line where you please,
Eugenio ; Mr. Meridian, ditto. I draw mine
at thumb screws and the Inquisition.'

Thereupon she sat down and flung off
bonnet and Sunday mantle. The bonnet went
to one end of the room, the mantle to the
other. Her Prayer-book, with silver clasp,
touched the ceiling and fell down again. Her
parasol flew out of the window, overturning a
vase of flowers and shattering it into a dozen

pieces. She always flung things about when
in a passion. Perhaps, after all, the habit has
virtue in it. Better set plates and dishes
clattering than friends and neighbours by
their ears.

Now you know as well as I do, Iveyy,' she
continued, ' that whatever I am, I can't be
called a narrow-minded person. I don't interfere
with my neighbours. They may worship
Gog and Magog, the Pope of Some ; be
Jews, Mahometan, Buddhists, atheists, for all
I care ! But when you come to thumbscrews
and auto da ses, I feel ready to do as many
poor creatures have been done by. I don't
say I would burn every Jesuit alive, but no
doubt many of them deserve it.'

My dear Roberta !' Miss Ivory said, in a
voice of shocked reproach.

I mean what I say,' Mrs. de Eobert cried.
Much you have profited by reading history,
Iveyy, if you don't feel the same. Poor dear
Galileo  Joan of Arc ! Did you ever hear of

em.

prayer

Times have changed. The waiter of this

letter may be as mild as Mr. Bacchus himself,'
Eugenia interposed.

The greater hypocrite he, then. You will
never turn a hawk into a sparrow. He shall
not cross my threshold. If I have to barricade
the place as they do the streets of Paris during
a revolution, I'll keep him out. I tell you
what, Iveyy,' Mrs. de Robert added, in a voice
of positive insinuation  ' we two will start off
to Bath, and leave Mr. Meridian to get rid of
the wretch as best he can.'

I must say, I should like to see a real live
Jesuit,' Eugenia replied naively ; ' one has
not such an opportunity every day.'

God be praised, no !' the elder lady said,
once more working herself up into a fury ;
'nor of being cajoled by him either. You
are mole-blind, Jenny. You don't see one
inch before you. What does this conniver of
evil, this leaguer with the Father of Lies, this
aider and abetter of wickedness incarnate
want ? Poor dear Affie's money to go into
the Pope's coffers, of course. My head should
sooner '

Mrs. de Robert's fingers were once more
tingling with the desire to smash something,
but nothing smashable stood handy. Her
execration of Jesuits must be expressed by
deeds, not words.

On the carved oak buffet stood some pieces
of beautiful old plate  the old de Robert plate
teapot, salver, snuffers and tray, that were
kept in the house for use.

Mrs. de Robert first seized the teapot by
the spout and threw it to the farther end of
the room; the salver followed, spinning alone
the ground ; last rattled the snuffers and tray.

These are the things he wants  this Father
Fitz Flibbertygib ! Mce they look in their
churches, the Papists think. And nice they
may look, for all me. I tell you what, Jenny,
my good girl : rather than a single ounce of
the family plate goes to the Pope, I will have
it melted down to line my own coffin with.'

Eugenia looked at the fine old bits of
George III. silver, ruefully. They were battered
before, and Mrs. de Robert's treatment
was the very worst thing in the world for

them. There they lay, shining resplendent on
the crimson carpet.

Why shouldn't I ? My bones are as good
as many of their relics, I'll answer for it ! No,
Eugenia this was said cajolingly; 'let us
start away to Bath, and leave Mr. Meridian to
deal with the Jesuit. The Vicar is a bit of a
Jesuit himself. The pair will get on together
like Jonathan and David.'

Eugenia sat still looking at the plate.

I don't think we should find Bath so entertaining
as Hopedale just now,' she said. ' Besides,
what harm could a Jesuit  could a
whole college of Jesuits  do you ? One and
all, they would be just as polite as Mr.
Meridian.'

A fig for such politeness!' quoth Mrs. de
Robert ; ' give me instead crusty folks, but
honest, I say. Well, if you won't go to Bath
with me, I suppose here I must stay, willynilly.'


I will start for Bath with you tomorrow
morning, if you like,' Miss Ivory said
pleasantly ; ' but the most disagreeable of these

claimants, as I say, can do us no harm, and
all may entertain us not a little.'

Those two old ladies now, Selina Beckett
and Patience Purfle '  so Mrs. de Robert insisted
on miscalling them  ' as well expect
blood from a stone as entertainment from
them! Take my word for it.'

They may get entertainment from 11 s; it
amounts to the same thing,' Eugenia replied.
And just think what a delightfully exciting
position is ours ! Robinson Crusoe's suspense
at sight of the footprint was nothing to it.
He could in a measure tell who would turnup,
but we cannot in the very least. All is
pleasing uncertainty.'

One thing is quite certain, we are too late
for church,' Mrs. de Robert said complacently.
Well, it is the Vicar's own fault. He should
have kept the letter till after service.'

Eugenia took off her bonnet and scarf with
a look of relief Yes, it was pleasant for once
to stay away from morning service. The
weather was hot; the Vicar spared neither
himself nor his congregation in the matter of

sermon. No matter the time of the year, they
must listen to the allotted portion ; and with
a good grace. Unwary trowsers were severely
castigated from the pulpit.

 I wish you would do one thing, Jenny,'
added Mrs. de Eobert ; she had now quite
recovered self-possession. ' Just write a line
to Selina Beckett and Patience Purfle. Tell
'em not to come till they are wanted. Let
the whole lot hugger-mugger together  old
maids, Jesuits, saints, sinners, Jews, and
Gentiles.' Seeing that Eugenia hesitated, she
went on : 'It cannot matter a straw to them
these old ladies, I mean.'

*Nay, they are not old; Miss Perfect at
least '

Old or young, what matters it a straw ?
Poor as mice they certainly are; they shall
not lose a farthing by this business, anyhow.
The longer T keep them at the Curate's the
better they'll like it, no doubt. Say I am
waiting for the plaguy priest. Say what you
like, only do not let us be troubled with them
till the last moment.'

Thus enjoined, Eugenia sat down and
penned an ingratiating little note of excuse to
Sabina. Then closing the shutters in order
to keep out the too beneficent sun, she sat
down in a low chair, indulging in reverie.
Mrs. de Robert had retired to her room ; she
always read the morning service and a
sermon of Jeremy Taylor's there when kept
from church. The young lady was therefore
alone.

What was she thinking about ? What
would any girl of high spirit think about
under the same circumstances ? She saw
herself on the threshold of a new existence,
already at the parting of the ways. This
arrival of Sabina Eicketts and Prudence Perfect,
and the letter from the priest, interested
her chiefly as indications of what was to come.
Other claimants were sure to follow. The
de Robert property would finally be awarded.
The departure from Hopedale seemed at hancl,
and departure from Hopedale meant so many
fascinating things. It meant freedom, in the
first place. Eugenia was the very last person

in the world to yield to pressure of any kind.
She knew that if an unwelcome suit were
proffered to her a dozen times, she should
have decision of mind enough to say ' Xo/
Any woman acting differently must be so
weak-minded as not to deserve the management
of her own affairs. Yet when she
thought over the matter quietly, Miss Ivory
felt that an indefinite stay at Hopedale meant
involuntary compliance with the wishes of
others.

That was how she put it to herself. A
great poet has said,  Mighty is that goddess
Avhose name is Propinquity ;' and Eugenia
quailed before the goddess of Propinquity.
The Vicar and the Curate were not attractive
to her. Of the two, she preferred Mr.
Bacchus. But while she stayed at Hopedale
she was compelled to see a great deal of both;
and she felt that if she stayed on for ever,
she should be led into one fatality or the
other.

Circumstances would force her to marry
Mr. Bacchus in order to escape the solicitations

of the Yicar, oi' to marry the Yicar in
order to escape the solicitations of Mr.
Bacchus. Would not Bongo  aye, the world's
end  be a happier ultimatum ? Other issues
hung upon the appearance of a proper
claimant. The seductions of freedom were
not all negative. Escape from Hopedale
meant much more than escape from clerical
love-making. It meant glimpses into the
world beyond ; new experiences alike for the
mind and the eye ; a wider mental outlook ;
a more liberal, an airier social sphere. They
might go to Mango or  Bath, to Bongo or 
Jerusalem. At any rate, they should leave
Hopedale and Hopedale folk behind them.
The going anywhere would be an initiative, a
precedent.

Miss Ivory, like many a woman endowed
with wit and character, revolted at the thought
of leading a life exactly like thousands of
others. ' Why should I not choose my own
life as well as my own dresses V she said to
herself. ' I must be the best judge of what
its.'

YOL. I. 8

Thus she dreamed away three morning
hours stolen from a sermon. Who shall sa'
they were less profitably spent ? If there is
one theme worth dwelling on with seriousness
and in solitude, surely it is life  a problem to
some, a penny merriment to others, to the
most part of us, alas ! a mere plodding along
dusty ways or jostling amid the crowd in the
market-place.

Starting FOE Dore.

HAVE a note, two notes, from
Miss Ivory,' said the Curate on
Monday morning. ' Mrs. de Robert
hopes you will not go to Hopedale this
afternoon. Dear me, how awkwardly I put it !
I always do put things so awkwardly I She
does not say that, of course. What she does
say is, would you kindly stay away for the
present ?  a very different thing.'

Sabina and Prue smiled, not seeing any very
great difference. They began to think this unknown
kinswoman of theirs must be a very
odd person indeed ; perhaps the less they saw
of each other the better. Life was so acrree-

8- -2

able, too, under the Curate's roof, that they
were delighted to stay on indefinitely, especially
as the visit, long or short, was to cost
them nothing.

Mrs. de Robert wants to be left alone 
what on earth am I saying !  Mrs. de Robert
suggests that to fill up the time agreeably you
should make a little expedition.'

Sabina and Prue were ready to giggle like
a pair of schoolgirls at the thought of an expedition
; but then came misgivings on the
score of cost. Mr. Bacchus anticipated their
thought.

You are not to jut your hands in your
own pocket ; Mrs. de Robert won't hear of
that. But would you really like me to convoy
you to Lodore, now ? She proposes that I
should convoy you to Dore.'

Not a spot in the wide world these unsophisticated
travellers more longed to see !
Their cheeks glowed with pleasure.

Sabina said shyly as a seventeen-year-old
maiden :

Had my Edwin lived '  already she had

communicated her love-story of thirty years
ago to the Curate  ' how strangely things turnout
!  had my Edwin lived, we should have
visited Lodore on our honeymoon.'

Really, indeed ! The only drawback is
this,' Mr. Bacchus put in : ' I can convoy you
there, but could not convoy you back again.
Would you be able to get on without me, do
you think V

The bare notion of not being able to get on
without the Curate would have made more
critical listeners smile. To these gentle women,
however, their host seemed a tower of strength.
Alas he not a man, and a clergyman ?

We will try,' Prue said, with an ingratiating
smile. As it was delightful to be
convoyed by the Curate, it was even more
delightful to be thus set down as dependent
on him.

 We should, of course, like your company all
the time, but we will manage as well as we
can without it,' she added.

Mrs. de Robert wants you to be away a
week, at least. I mean, Mrs. de Eobert hopes

you will make a journey of several clays Mr.
Bacchus blundered on. ' Now, if poor Mr.
Bates, the farmer, had only died last Thursday
week, instead of last Thursday, I could have
managed the thing nicely. As it is, I must
get back by Wednesday morning for the
funeral, unless I can find a substitute.'

Prue, mother-like, wanted to know what,
meantime, would become of the children.

Oh ! I will get in Nurse Jones for a couple
of days. She is quite blind, stone-deaf, and
set fast with rheumatism, but is a wonderful
protection in a house. My mind is quite easy
about everything when she is once at the
helm.'

What a comfort to have such a person
handy !' said Prue.

The greatest possible blessing to me, I
assure you returned Mr. Bacchus. ' She
knows exactly what is going on by instinct.
She does without eyes, ears, and legs in a
manner that is enough to make us ashamed
of having them. Not ashamed, exactly ; no,
I did not mean that  ashamed of making no

better use of them, I intended to say. So it
is all settled, then. We are to set out the
first thing tomorrow morning for Dore.
Whether we shall ever get there is quite
another question.'

Is the journey so very difficult, then V
asked Prue, athirst for adventure, already
sniffing it in the air.

No, I cannot say that. It is easy enough
to get to Lodore. But you know the old
proverb about the cup and the lip ! Nothing,
you see, is really certain in this life  except
that we must pay the tax-gatherer.' Mr.
Bacchus, smiling grimly, added : ' Such unexpected
things happen I Just think of the
man who was to have been hanged yesterday
for murdering his sweetheart ! Nothing ever
seemed more certain than that I Why, the
very rope was round his neck when the hangman
fell down dead himself. As there was no
one else up to the business, he got off, and is
now alive and well, like you and me.'

Poor darling I penitent and grateful, I
hope,' Sabina sighed.

'And in another paper the Curate went
oil, 'yesterday's, 1 think Georgie, fetch me
yesterday's paper ; the one baby half munched
to pieces there is an account k propos from
the Far West. Two young men started across
country in order to attend their uncle's funeral.
As the distance was considerable, and as this
uncle had left them a good sum of money,
they purchased a spick-and-span dogcart, and
fine horse for the journey. When they got
there, to their surprise, they found the old
gentleman hale and hearty, having been only
taken for dead in a fit. The ungrateful
nephews brought an action against him for the
expense of the trap and their mourning suits.
I hope they'll lose it, I am sure. "l just
mention these things to show that when we
start for Lodore, we are no more certain of
getting to our journey's end than people who
start for the North Pole.'

'It is pleasant to start, anyhow,' Prue
said.

Yes, I quite agree with you there. Nothing
like a start to enliven the spirits, no

matter what kind of start it may be. I am
always ready enough for a start myself.'

Should we not write to thank dear kind
Mrs. de Eobert V asked Sabina.

The Curate made a queer grimace at hearing
his old friend spoken of in these endearing
terms.

She hates letters ; but I will write for you
to Miss Ivory,' he replied, with an alertness
that disconcerted poor Prue. ' Yes, I will
write to Miss Ivory, and say that we start for
Lodore the first thing tomorrow morning. I
dare say we shall do no such thing. If we do,
the train will miss the Windermere boat, and
the Windermere boat will miss the Keswick
coach, and we shan't get to Lodore any more
than to Timbuctoo. However, start we
must.'

That starting for Lodore with the Rev. Mr.
Bacchus, Sabina and Prue would never forget
the delightfulness of it. There was the packing
up to begin with ; and not only the packing
up for themselves, but for their fellow-traveller
 that fellow-traveller a man. To

the artless minds of Sabina and Prue, a man
seemed nothing less than mystery incarnate ;
the very clothes he wore had in their eyes
something preternatural, and, in the case of a
clergyman, almost sacred. With careful, even
loving fingers they mended the socks, ironed
the shirts, and put buttons on the waistcoat
destined for the Curate's valise.

It was the first time in their lives that such
pleasing duty had fallen to their share, and
they did it with right goodwill. Nothing
was left out of which the traveller could possibly
stand in need. Mother-like, sister-like,
wife-like, the pair next directed their attention
to the house and the children. Georgie must
be indulged with the prettiest picture-book
the village shop afforded. Baby was to have
the excitement of a sixpenny drum. And Nurse
Jones and Jane were not forgotten ; little
pleasures were arranged for them during their
absence. Finally, they retired to their own
rose-embowered chamber, and made ready for
the morrow.

I am quite sure of one thing,' Prue said, as

she sat on the bed arranging her frills.
Travelling may not make us wise  we can't
all be wise ; it was never intended we should
be  but it does make us compressible. How
many of the miseries of life arise from
people not being compressible ! Everybody
wants more than he has got of everything.
They won't be accommodating, like 's.'


Yes,' replied Sabina, ' I have often reproached
myself for not being more of a
carpet-bag. In our own small way, we both
want more than we have got, otherwise we
should not be here  in quest of something to
our advantage, I mean.'

And of course,' philosophized Proc, ' we
don't want half what we already possess, if
we could only be brought to believe it. What
a small amount of luggage is to last us for a
week ! yet we could jog on with no more to
the end of our days, were we really put
to such shifts, and think ourselves rich,
too.'

And those are really rich who think themselves

so Sabina rejoined, as she rammed
down another fixt bundle into her already
bursting carpet-bag. 'Poverty, leaving out
extreme cases, exists after all only in imagination.
A man who has hardly a rag to cover
him, or a morsel of bread to put into his
mouth, is certainly poor, but nobody else that
I can see. We want so little, so very little,
when it comes to bare necessaries.'

Sabina loved to lead Prue into a metaphysical
labyrinth, and Prue equally loved the
task of finding her way out.

*A roof to shelter us, a bed to lie on,
clothes to wear, and food to eat  any rational
being ought to be satisfied with these,' Sabina
went on. ' And it is the same with everything
; Lodore, for instance. Just because we
both wish for nothing; so much as to see
Lodore, if we do see it, we shall be as contented
as if we had travelled round the world.
We only want to wish for what we have, and
we have exactly what we wish.'

*That seems to me like putting the cart
before the horse,' Prue answered. ' And wee

can't always wish for what we have. If I had
been unfortunate enough to be born with a
humpback, I could not wish that.'

Yes, you would,' Sabina replied. ' That is
to say, if you were a rational being, you would
think the matter over, and find out that you
could not have been born otherwise  I mean,
consistently with the purpose of your destiny
and the ulterior ends of creation.'

If we never do get to Lodore. Now, I
could not wish that either,' Prue said.
Nothing could make me, I am sure.'

You would wish it,' Sabina answered.
You could not feel differently. You would
ponder the matter over, and come to the conclusion
that after all you had already seen so
much more than many people, it could not
reasonably be expected that you should see
anything so wonderful as Lodore. So you
would end by wishing not to have seen
Dore.'

I will begin by wishing to see it, anyhow,'
Prue said cheerfully.

Sabina's conclusions were apt to damp her

spirits. She feared if she listened much
longer she should really end in not wishing to
see Dore.

I little thought she added, ' when a child
at school I read that poem, I should ever seethe
waters

" Rising and leaping,

Sinking and creeping . . .
Recoiling, trailing and toiling and boiling,
Thumping and plumping and bumping and jumping."

I wonder if they do so now ! That is the
reason why I think anyone may wish to
travel a little. We can't help wanting to see
if things are like the description we read of
in books  larger or smaller, better or worse.
Lodore, now, when we get there, if the
waters don't come 'thumping and plumping
and bumping and jumping," what a disappointment
it will be ! I shall feel ready to
cry.'

We can't always expect descriptions in
books to tally with the things themselves,'
Sabina replied. * As my poor dear Edwin
said once  it was when Cousin Mary tried to

persuade me to send for a bonnet she had seen
at the market-town, because, as she said, it
would exactly suit my complexion  " Binaa,"
he said, '' we know how things appear to our
own eyes, from a ship on fire to a bootjack ; but
how they appear to the eyes of others is ever
a dark mystery." So, of course, I did not send
for the bonnet. I always followed his advice
in everything. It is just the same with
Lodore. The waters may have recoiled and
turmoil and boiled when Southey saw them,
or he fancied they did, or they might haVe
thumped and plumped and bumped and
jumped in former days, but have left off doing
so now. So I say we ought not to expect
things to turn out like other people's
descriptions, but just the reverse. I do, I am
sure, in the case of Dore.'

It will be Lodore, anyhow,' Prue put in,
whether the waters roar like thunder or areas
quiet as mice. That is one comfort. AVe
shall have seen Lodore all the same.'

And if we don't get to Lodore at all, we
shall get very near it. There is a great deal

in that also Sabina rejoined. ' Nobody ever
gets to the North Pole, but a good many
explorers get very near it; and I dare say if
they reached the Pole itself they would be
none the wiser. So it is with Dore.'

WHAT BEFELL THE CLAIMANTS ON THEIR WAY
TO Dore.

Wonderful to relate, they did get
to Lodore. A score of misadventures,
of course, happened to
them on the road. At the last moment the
Curate was summoned to baptize a baby, and
the departure had to be delayed till mid day.
From this small hitch in their arrangements
arose many another. The mid-day train to
Lakeside just missed the boat that caught the
Keswick coach, consequently there was no
such thing as getting to Lodore or near it
that day. Then, as ill-luck would have it, no
sooner had they decided to take the boat that

VOL. I. 9

did not catch the coach, instead of waiting for
the boat that did, down came the rain as it
can only come down in these districts.

Clouds black as pitch broke over their
heads. The lightning, the thunder, the agitation
of the lake, might have intimidated
such travellers as Sabina and Prue under
other circumstances. The presence of the
Rev. Mr. Bacchus reassured them as a talis -
manic charm.

Huddled together under the awning, with
other mackintosh tourists, they made light
of the storm.

Of course said the Curate,  nobody ever
expects to cross Windermere on a fine day!
and what does not happen to more than one
traveller out of a thousand, how could we
expect it to happen to us ? I should not feel
that it was Windermere had it been fine ; and
when wee get used to things, we like them,
whether pleasant or no. I enjoy all this he
added, as he glanced at the little crowd of
dripping fellow-travellers. ' It is not sitting
at home, twirling one's thumbs, anyhow.'

And of course if Mr. Bacchus enjoyed it all,
so did Prue. When he went on deck to watch
the lightning play on the lake, she summoned
courage to go also. The flashes were very
vivid ; the peals of thunder truly awful ; the
rain a positive waterspout. Yet she stayed,
and the more deafening the thunder, the faster
it rained, the fiercer it blew, the more exhilarated
grew her companion.

I dare say we shall find every hotel full
when we get to the other end of the lake,' he
said ; ' not a bed to be had anywhere, either
for love or money, I feel sure. That always
happens to me when I leave home to enjoy
myself. But, you see, it would not be travel
at all if we got exactly what we get at home.
I delight in this sort of thing myself,' he
added, as he shook a quart or two of rain-water
from the sleeve of his mackintosh. ' It is so
good for the spirits.'

Under other circumstances, Sabina and Prue
would have been inclined to shed tears of
mortification at the thought of crossing Windermere
in such weather. As it was, they

92

both caught the Curate's playful mood. He
was so kind, so courteous, that Prue forgot
the disturbing image of the beautiful Miss
Ivory. Sabina also felt girlishly frolicsome.

And of course, if we can't see Windermere
in all its beauty, we must imagine it,' Prue
said. ' Not everybody is lucky enough to
see it in the rain.'

Ah ! the rain ! I never could understand
myself why people rail at the rain the Curate
said, his wits seeming to sharpen with every
flash of lightning, his spirits to rise with every
blinding gust. ' Nothing like an umbrella to
make people agreeable in conversation. Instead
of staring at this, that, and the other,
repeating what everybody has said a thousand
times before, they say something worth listening
to, in order, I suppose, to make up for the
drenching.'

'You are right there, sir!' said a stander-by,
a tall, grey-haired, dreamy, affectionate-looking
man. ' The umbrella is, to the ordinary
mortal, as the tub to Diogenes, the
Agora to Socrates, the Areopagus to St. Paul.

If the umbrella does not bring out the divine
spark in a man, depend on it, that man is the
dullest born of mortal clods. How many
romances, philosophies, cunning inventions,
reforms, are due to the umbrella !'

'I would go even further, and say, how
many religions, or rather religious phases, are
due to the umbrella!' put in a short, square-built,
bright-eyed man, evidently his travelling
companion. ' When the sun shines, and the
butterflies dance about, who thinks of saving,
his own soul or that of his neighbour ? Rain
sobers, rain incites to introspection. The
umbrella represents the spiritual side of
humanity.'

It is as good as a sermon, anyhow
laughed the Curate, still in the highest
spirits ; ' and a Poor Richard into the bar-train
! I never walk five miles under an
umbrella without thinking of the rainy day
in matters of pounds, shillings, and pence.
I suppose some folks lay by for the rainy day,
as it is called. To myself, it has always been
as chimerical as trying to stop rain altogether.'

The little party of listeners laug'hecl. Then
the first stranger spoke. His benevolent face
turned to Sabina and True with the look of
interest that some intelligent, kindly men feel
in every daughter of Eve, old or young,
beauteous or ugly.

It is time to hear what the ladies have to
say on the subject.'

Sabina looked at Prue. Prue looked at
Sabina. So, being the more experienced of
the two in matters of the heart, Sabina took
up the challenge.

An umbrella  dear me ! you ask me to say
something about an umbrella she said, with
a charming little blush. ' Dear me, gentlemen,
really now, you forget one must be
young  a woman, I mean  to give an opinion
on such a subject. I always associate an
umbrella with first love. Lord Byron, and
dreams of bliss never to be realized.'

Bravo !' cried the pair of strangers. ' Now
the other lady must positively enunciate an
opinion.'

Prue smiled and hesitated. For a moment

she, however, the shyest of shy womankind,
was turned into an epigrammatist by the
magic of the umbrella.

Somewhat primly she answered :
An umbrella always reminds me of true
friendship, expanding in time of storm, and
lying squat wheii not needed.

An apt and charming ' simile, that,' rejoined
the elder stranger. ' I hope, as we have
all become so friendly under our umbrellas, we
may meet again. 'T would be pleasant to meet
again at Dore.'

It seems rather odd that we should want
to see more water for years to come,' the
Curate said, shaking another bucketful from
his mackintosh. ' However, there is no accounting
for tastes ; and the more people get
of anything, the more they want  there is no
doubt of that.'

It certainly seemed so in this instance.
As the weather worsened, the little steamer
became fuller and fuller. At every landing-place
it took up little groups of mackintosh,
umbrella, blooded travellers. With smiling

faces they came : fastidious maidens,
stalwart undergraduates, burly City men, comfortable
matrons, grave English parsons, and
American tourists. The rain, with its magic
wand, seemed to have conjured them forth
as the Pied Piper of Hamelin conjured forth
the rats. Good-natured or in crumbling;
humour, still they came ; and but for the
contingents set down, the contingents taken
up would have over-freighted the vessel.
Some, like the Curate and his companions,
were evidently continuing their journey ; the
greater number were merely making little
excursions on the lake, taking one steamer
out, another back again, in the rain. Why
should they do it ? Why should they not ?
They were out on a holiday. Indoor life of
an hotel meant the quintessence of boredom.
Better to get drenched to the skin and have
the pleasure of talking about it afterwards,
than remain indoors, dry as tinder, with
nothing to talk about at all !

Oh yes ! I hope, I am sure, we shall all
meet aiiain at Lodore!' Sabina said in the

blushing, sentimental way some women never
outgrow, when addressing the other sex. To
her artless mind this adventure presented the
very romance of travel. The heavens frowned,
the rain poured down, the glorious landscape
was completely blotted out from view ; yet she
should never forget the journey across Windermere.


The Curate, Prue, and the younger of the
two strangers were now pacing the deck.

Wet or fine, when on board ship there is
nothing like pacing the deck,' said the Curate.
We are not on board ship exactly ; but
there is water enough to drown us all, and
here we are on a boat, so it amounts to the
same thing. Who can keep up his spirits if
he sits stock-still for hours at a time ? This
I call exhilarating.'

So backwards and forwards they paced with
other travellers in search of exhilaration.
They hustled and jostled each other with their
dripping umbrellas ; the rain spurted and
squirted ; now one umbrella was blown inside
out, now another was blown outside in; the

water ran in little rivers aloof the deck, and
fell in pailfuls from the awning  nothing could
damp the general ardour. An inhabitant of
some drier planet suddenly transported to the
scene must have supposed rain to constitute
the acme of felicity to dwellers on this
globe.

All very well for young folk, that sort of
thing said Sabina's cavalier ; ' those whom
rheumatism has made wise will prefer a dry
skin. Well, if the rain never comes to an end,
fortunately Windermere does. Maybe, like
myself, you are a stranger hereabouts.'

Quite a stranger,' said Sabina. ' I am an
Eastern counties woman.'

Making a little pleasure-trip with your
friends, eh ? We  that is to say, myself and
my nephew, the Doctor yonder  come from
the States, and our errand is partly business
and partly pleasure.'

Sabina testified the keenest interest in her
fellow-traveller's affairs. To be thus taken
into confidence by acquaintances of an hour
seemed the very poetry of travel.

Bound on business or pleasure, who would
pass this way without stopping to see Dore,
and hear the waters

" Flapping and rapping and clapping and slapping,
And curling and whirling and purling and twirling."

Niagara itself couldn't do more. As I was
saying, then, the Doctor yonder  I mean my

nephew and myself  have come '

Just then the signal was given of another
stoppage. Sabina's interlocutor was pounced
upon by his travelling companion.

Lowness  we sleep here to-night, but lookout
for us at Lodore,' said the elder man ;
whilst the younger, with equal friendliness,
waved his hand from the landing-place and
shouted :

Lodore !'

Coachman IT MERRILY TO Dore.

fl rgRUE enough, two clays after the
little party was coaching it merrily
to Lodore. The Curate had been
unable to resist the temptation of keeping
holiday somewhat longer.

Fortunately,' he said, ' as poor Bates's
funeral is to take place at Forester, and no
one else wants to be buried, baptized, or
married, I can stay ; if anyone did, I daresay
Georgie could do it all as well as myself.
]put nobody does, so here I am. When once
I get away from home  I don't know how it
is  I never want to get back again. I
suppose I ought ; but I never do. I always

look upon people who are ready to do exactly
what they ought to do as a superior order of
beings.'

It certainly seemed matter for little wonderment
that poor Mr. Bacchus, when once out
on a holiday, should never want to go home.
Was not coaching it merrily to Lodore a
thousand times more agreeable to an educated
man than the business of getting linen ready
for the washerwoman, nursing a fractious
baby, shelling peas for dinner, or helping the
maid-of- all-work to tidy up after the sweep ?
Cheerfully and uncomplainingly as the Curate
performed these duties, he could but feel glad
to exchange them for a little distraction when
it came in his way ; and distraction that came
gratuitously as the dews of heaven, therein
lay the gist of the matter.

I am sure you can understand my feelings,'
he said to his two companions. * Why I
really enjoy myself so much is because I have
never to put my hand in my own pockets ; if
I had to do so, it would be of no use  there
is never any money in them ; but the feeling

of relief is the same. A meal, now, at an
hotel, every morsel would almost choke me if
I had to pay for it myself  always supposing
I could, you know

The two ladies understood his feelings quite
well. Their enjoyment of every moment was
intense as his own, and partly due to the
same causes. Delightful as it was to behold
Lodore, still more delightful was the fact of
beholding it for nothing.

The weather, too, was now glorious ; and
however inspiriting a trip may be in the rain,
it certainly loses nothing of its charm by the
sunshine.

There they were then, the three friends and
their two acquaintances, merrily coaching it
to Lodore. Sabina found herself beside the
elder stranger ; behind sat Prue and the
Doctor ; whilst Mr. Bacchus occupied a seat
by the coachman. Truth to tell, he was-dying
to handle the reins.

All were in airy spirits, and no wonder. It
is not everybody's privilege to see how ' the
waters come down at Lodore.' None surely

had ever journeyed thither under circumstances
so romantic as did Sabina and Prue.

Thus at least they thought when fairly on
their way to Lodore. The horses trotted
briskly ; the peep of blue lake between waxen-green
foliage was fairy-like ; the reflection of
fleecy-white cloud and azure sky, perfect  yet
tongues wagged as if there was nothing insight
but a brick wall. So imperative, indeed,
is the necessity of speech to mortals, that
could they behold the siege of Jerusalem, the
storming of the Bastille, or any other moving
event in the world's history re-enacted before
their very eyes, they would doubtless chatter
like magpies all the time. And the men
chatted away as fast as the women ; no greater
fallacy than to suppose redundancy of speech
a weakness of the sex !

The Eev. Mr. Bacchus had set out with the
firm determination of driving a four-in-hand
not only to Lodore, but to Butt term ere. Certainly,
as he had put it to the ladies, the open
break that does duty for a coach in the Lake
country nowadays is hardly to be called a four-in-hand

; yet so long as you are in some sort of
vehicle drawn by four animals of some kind,
it amounts to precisely the same thing. Why
so many nice distinctions 1 Twice two makes
four, anyhow ; and a trap that carries as
many people as a coach is as good as a coach
any day.

Your horses are as quiet as lambs, I see,'
he began insinuatingly ; ' a child could drive
them.'

She's a Tartar,' replied the driver, indicating
the left-hand horse nearest him.

The Curate delighted in nothing; so much
as driving a Tartar.

I suppose you let a fare take the reins
for a bit now and then V asked Mr. Bacchus.

Not with a tetchy one like Betsy,' said
the man, thinking to himself that if the
parson reckoned on the pleasure of showing off
Betsy, he was much mistaken.

I can drive a four-in-hand as easily as I
can preach a sermon. Just let me show you,'
said the Curate.

The driver eyed his companion slyly.

I don't say you can't, sir ; but you see, if
anything were to happen  and that Betsy,
now, there's no relying whatsoever on
her

But the more difficult of attainment seemed
the escapade, the more eager became the
Curate to indulge in it. He could hardly
have been more frantic to take Betsy in hand
had his very existence depended on it. His
fellow-travellers were to alight at Lodore ; but
he determined that if the man would leb him
drive he would go on to Buttermere, at least'
as far as Betsy would let him. His ambition
stopped there.

Where might Betsy come from V asked
Mr. Bacchus, affecting sudden interest in her
native place and genealogy.

Bless you, sir !' said the man ; * these sort
of beasts, sir, we take at a pinch without a
character  just come from nowhere. T'other,
now, on the right hand, Charley, I can tell
you anything you want to know about him.'

The Curate delightedly led the way to a
topical discourse ; it was exactly what he

VOL. I. 10

wanted. So he talked of Charley's home;
and as there are many places with names very
much resembling one another in the North, it
was some time before they came to an understanding
about it. Mr. Bacchus appeared
to have grown quite indifferent to the charms
of driving by this time, but was stealthily
watching his chance.

They were going lazily uphill. The driver
showed increasing interest in the Curate's
pocket-map. Yes, that was the name ; would
the gentleman hold the reins while he looked
at it ? The thing was done ; obstacles that a
few minutes before had seemed insurmountable
had vanished, there was the Curate driving a
four-in-hand uphill and downhill to Lodore !
He sat bolt upright, flourished his whip,
manipulated the reins  the happiest man
under heaven at that moment.

Away they went like the wind, for he had
touched up Betsy, and the lively animal, like
many others of her sex, only seemed to want
her head. What harm is there in that ?
Should we not all end our days in a madhouse,

unless we were allowed to have our
head occasionally ?

As to the driver, he kept his eye on his
horses and his fare, and said nothing. He
was the father of a family. The bread of his
wife and children depended on his steadiness ;
but he loved a joke as well as anybody, and
could not for the life of him help indulging iu
it now. The spectacle of the parson driving-was
worth any money. As he said afterwards,
Mr. Bacchus looked the meekest-looking man
imaginable. Judging from appearances, one
could hardly have supposed him capable of
driving a poor feeble-spirited donkey, much
less a team of coach-horses headed by a
Tartar. But just as occasion makes the thief,
so will opportunity make the exploit. The
Curate had made up his mind on one point  -
he was not going to stop at Lodore ; and so, ina
very short space of time, had Betsy. Thc3
pair understood each other perfectly.

In the meantime, a very interesting conversation
was taking place between Sabina and
her fellow-traveller.

102

As I was saying to you on board the
steamer,' began the stranger, * my nephew,
the Doctor, and myself are visiting these
parts, partly on business and partly on pleasure.
And bound on business or pleasure,
who would pass this way without seeing
Lodore ? But when we leave Keswick the day
after tomorrow, we shall have other things to
think of. Curiously enough,' he added, * our
family originally came from these parts.'

How deeply interesting !' Sabina said.
You must feel as if every place ought to be
familiar, although, of course, it cannot be so.
It seems the same thing as ourselves  our
ancestors, I mean ; but, in reality, it is quite
different.'

I never set foot on English soil till I
landed at Liverpool a few days ago,' he continued
; ' and I don't suppose I ever should,
but for an odd circumstance that has lately
happened. We Americans have been so long
severed from the parent stock that, as a rule,
we know no more of one another than the
Gibson pippin knows of its progenitor, the

crab-tree. Pray don't take this comparison
amiss 1 However, my nephew and myself
have been sent for by our relations  that is
the proper way to put it. Pleasant, that  to
be sent for across the Atlantic by one's
relations ! It so seldom happens !'

Sabina smiled acquiescing. Yes ; that
sentiment both she and Prue could echo from
the very bottom of their hearts. Nothing
could be pleasant than the summons to
Briardale in their own case.

Pleasant, too, the expectations thereby
called forth resumed the stranger. * We no
more know why we are wanted than the man
in the moon. How can we help conjuring up
all kinds of possibilities ! The fact is  the
fact is '

Just then the behaviour of Betsy, under
the Curate's conduct, and the sudden alarm
thereby created, stopped the conversation.

Mr. Bacchus had not the slightest intention
of letting the mare run away, nor had she
any such intention to begin with. Having
once got her head, she only wanted to go a

little farther and a little faster than usual.
Why that automatic halt nt precisely the
same spot clay after day ? And that was all
Mr. Bacchus desired  just a pretence at
running away ; an agreeable flutter among
the passengers ; a little harmless screaming
among the ladies ; then a sudden pull-up amid
a general buzz of relief.

So instead of slackening speed, or paying
any attention to the importunities of the
driver, he whipped up his team, Betsy taking
the lead ; the three soberer horses would fain
have behaved after everyday fashion. On
they went, in spite of themselves, at a flying
pace. Lodore was now in sight ; but the
nearer they got, the faster they galloped.
The ostler hanging about the hotel by the
wayside sprang forward to seize the bridle ;
away tugged the animals, no more heeding
them than so many gate-posts. Out rushed
master and mistress, guests, head-waiters and
under-waiters, to see what was the matter.
Those in authority uttered futile orders at the
top of their voices, the ladies scream erl, the

youngsters hallooed and waved their caps, the
dogs barked, whilst on the top of the coach,
reigned a greater commotion still.

Some of the passengers were disconcerted
at one thing, some at another ; the more
timid thought that the horses were running
away, and that their very lives were in
jeopardy ; several being bound to London
that evening were alarmed at the notion of
being carried, heaven knew whither, to the
forfeiture of their return - tickets and the
general upsetting of their plans ; others were
of opinion that the Lodore Coach, so-called,
was altogether an imposture, and that they
should be cheated into paying double fare for
not being set down at the proper place. All
were startled, outraged, indignant.

Those of the ladies able to reach the driver
with their parasols belaboured him soundly,
crying :

Lodore ! Set us down at Lodore ! Dore
-  do you hear V

The men drummed their walking-sticks on
the coach's sides, echoing in stentorian tones :

Lodore ! I say, we get clown at Lodore !'

What, indeed, with the rattling of wheels,
the clamour of voices, the disturbance alike
among passengers and bystanders, the barking
of the sympathetic dogs, the celebrated falls
themselves, when the water was at its fullest,
could hardly have made more noise.

But just as the general uproar had reached
its acme, and it seemed as if the Curate and
his four-in-hand were hurrying away as fast
as they could to perdition, and everybody
expected to see everybody else in some dire
strait, Mr. Bacchus adroitly manoeuvred the
reins ; he gently checked Betsy's ardour,
slackened the speed of the rest, and, without
more ado, brought his heavily laden vehicle to
a standstill.

That comes of letting a parson get hold of
the reins,' said a looker-on, as solemnly as if
half a dozen passengers had got a broken
limb.

ECSTASIES AND MISGIVINGS.

HERE they were, then, in sight. of
Lodore at last ; and true enough, a
circumstance hardly less satisfactory,
the famous waters behaved just as the
poet had taught them to expect 

Eddying and whisking,
Spouting and frisking,
Twining and twisting. . .
Smiting and fighting,
A sight to delight in,'

And there gazed the four strangers who had
journeyed so far to see. They were all in a
transport of admiration. As the Transatlantic
traveller observed, Niagara itself
could not really do more.

It must be admitted that a rainy season had
greatly embellished Lodore. The fancy cannot
conceive a more bewildering, and yet refreshing
spectacle, music of more imposing kind. A
waterfall that should be noiseless were surely
shorn of half its majesty, perhaps, indeed, of
its grandest feature : the awful volume of
sound so rhythmic, so improvised ! AVhat an
ecstasy for a blind man to be placed within earshot
of this thunderous trumpet-voiced Lodore !
The unseen part of it he could conjure up.
The jet-black rock piled pyramidal, as it
appears, half-way towards heaven ; the masses
of water, silvery bright ; the rainbow that
comes and goes, dropping jewelled light ; the
dazzling green foliage round about  all this,
had his eye once beheld earth's beauteous face,
he could behold with the inner eye blindness
cannot take away.

The Curate, having seen Lodore many
times before, had taken the coach to the next
stage. He always went as far as he could,
he said. He never contented himself with
seeing one thini:!: if lie could see two, or With

two if he could see three, when out on hi
travels ; only fools did that, he said.

Sabina and Prue were therefore left with
their new acquaintance. In happy unconcern,
not in the least aware of the revelation in
store for them, the pair prattled away to their
genial cavaliers. The much-travelled are as
the possesses of an ample library. Those
dio have seen but one or two choice spots or
marvellous scenes in the course of their existence
are as the owners of half a dozen books
only ; each on, however, they know by heart.
Thus it was with these simple, nature-loving*
women. They were, in reality, as much enriched
as if they had journeyed round the
world. So much more worth having is one
deep and remembrance impression than a
thousand of a fleeting kind.

The two men threw themselves on the turf
in front of the waterfall ; Sabina and Prue
sat on a mossy stone near them, the latter
holding Southey's Poems in her hand. She
wanted to read ' How the Water Comes Down
at Lodore,' in the spot where they really did

coin down, just to see if the poet had exaggerated,
she said. But no ; after gazing and
listening, and o-azini and listening: assail, she
must sav he had not exaggerated a bit. If
ever waters came down

Thumping and plumping and bumping and jumping

or

they were the waters of Dore.

I wonder Avhat the Waters tell us nephew,'
said the elder stranger, smiling significantly
at his companion. ' Do they thunder forth
salutes of victory, salvos of triumph ; or is
the deafening chorus a mere mockery of our
hopes and expectations  mischievous water-sprites,
ko holds, elves, and brownies, bidding
us pocket our ill-luck and begone ?'

Sabina, recalling the speaker's interrupted
confidence on the coach, now gently nipped
Prue's arm. Something told her all was not
right. True, wholly unsuspicious of what was
coming, turned a ready ear.

The Doctor was amusing himself with pe]>
bless, aimed now at this eddying, seething
mass of waters, now at that. Thus interrogated,

he smiled curiously as he made
reply :

No, sir ; I am not going to be balked of
Fortune's favours this time, if you are. The
heartless jade has flirted with us both cruelly
enough until now. It is high time for her to
change her tune ; and, as I listen to these
waters, " Fortune, Fortune," is the burden of
their song.*

A very pleasant burden, too,' Prue replied ,
all unconscious of the speaker's meaning. She
imputed Sabina's sudden pensiveness to recollections
of the lost Edwin.

Have it all your own way,' continued the
first speaker. ' Money, were we to get
millions, won't make me twenty years
younger, nor you twenty times wiser. But
if we come into a fortune* we will thank
heaven that we are thus enabled to better our
neighbours : and if we don't, we must leave
the task to others. How would you feel
now,' he added, looking from Sabina to Prue
' how would you two ladies feel if you were
in this position  poor as church mice to-days

expecting to find ourselves walking moneybags
tomorrow ?'

Prue was in such an ecstasy with Dore
that she was no nearer the disagreeable truth
than before. Nothing could be farther from
her mind than rivalries and competitors just
then. The unaccustomed scene, the novel
circumstances in which she found herself,
intoxicated like wine. As she listened to the
rushing waters, 'Fortune, Fortune,' also seemed
the burden of their song in her own ears.
Sabina certainly felt a little nervous. She
had set out for Lodore in a girlish flutter of
expectation and enjoyment, and now wise
words of the lost Edwin were coming into
her mind.

Binaa,' he had once said, as she told Prue
afterwards  ' Binaa, never expect two turkeys
at Christmas. If somebody sends you one,
make the most of that.' How could she
expect a second turkey noah ? Lodore was
one ; she must make the most of that, not
believing in the other  the something to their
advantage.

As Prue did not reply to the stranger's
query, Sabina answered for her.

How should we feel ?' she said, tittering and
hesitating. ' Strangely enough  the oddest
thing in the world it is, to be sure  that is
just how we do feel. That is the very position
we are in ourselves.'

The strangers smiled and looked politely,
even amiably interested, that was all. They
also were far from suspecting the true state of
affairs.

As I remember my poor dear Edwin saying
 the gentleman I was to have married,
I mean  we had lost a cow, and the very next
day, a haystack caught fire. '' Binaa," he said,
"events never happen singly, mark that."
Who could have supposed  who could have
dreamed that when we came to Lodore inquest
of something to our advantage, we
should meet with you two gentlemen on the
very same errand!'

Prue saw it all now. Sabina' s forced p'aietv
did not undeceive her. These ingratiating,
agreeable strangers were claimants also 

rivals, and dangerous rivals, in the field. The
elder might be sixty; his companion was yet
in his prime, and in all probability the father
of blooming children  the very person, indeed,
wanted. Her heart sank within her at the
thought, and she saw that it was with no
little difficulty Sabina maintained self-composure
; she was sniffing at her smelling-bottle,
pretending to brush away a fly from
her eye, flushing and fidgeting. As for poor
Prue, she bent her head low over Southey's
volume, and dropped a tear of mortification
on the open page.

The pair of strangers seemed, for their part,
little disconcerted by the revelation. Why
should they, indeed ? Were not their chances
of success far greater ?

Phew !' cried the elder, with extreme
friendliness and good-nature. ' So you are
bound to Hopedale, too? Well, the more
the merrier ; and we are at least in good company.'


Neither did the Doctor appear one whit cast
down at the sudden turn given to affairs.

Heich-ho !' he cried ; ' so, uncle, we shall
have to share the cake with the ladies ? So
much the better, I say. Who would sit ina
corner, like little Jack Horner, eating his
Christmas pie ? You must know,' he said,
turning explanatorily to the friends, ' my
uncle and myself don't care a jack straw for
money in itself. We don't want to be rich in
order to butter our bread an inch thick, eat
strawberries that cost half-a-crown apiece, and
doze by the fire whilst half-naked wretches
sweep away the snow.'

We want money for the sake of making
others better and happier,' put in the uncle.

Prue, so suddenly plunged from ecstatic
contemplation into melancholy, could not easily
recover her spirits. Attention, however, was
immediately arrested by the words of the last
speaker. Ashen she heard of people being
made better and happier, she smiled pensive
approval, looking at the same time somewhat
puzzled. The stranger had a benevolent but
altogether clerical appearance. It never
occurred to her that anybody but a clergyman
VOL. I. 11

deliberately set himself the task of making*
people better and happier. Her notions of
goodness and happiness were those preached
from every pulpit in the kingdom o' Sundays.
But travel was already teaching her many
things ; amongst others, that there was more
'twixt heaven and earth than she dreamed of
in her philosophy.

The younger man took up the theme.
Why use such miserably hackneyed words?
Better and happier, forsooth ! Shall we set a
rickety world on its legs by trying the nostrums
that have failed for six thousand years?
No, ladies ; quacks and mountebanks we may
seem to most, moon struck maniacs to many,
brands fit for the burning, heretics incarnate
to some. But so has it fared with all innovators
from the beginning ; the first man to
build a church, the first to pull one doAvn,
both have passed for blasphemers in the eyes
of the self-righteous.'

Prue tried her best not to look shocked.
Sabina listened with extreme interest.
 Always keep your mind open to new

ideas.' Edwin had once said. It was on the
occasion of purchasing a new kind of button,
with double hanks ; if one snapped, the
other kept the button on. Yes, Edwin could
reap wisdom from the most trivial circumstance
! What he would have developed into,
had he lived, was beyond her imagination to
conceive. Being of a less devotional and theologic
turn, too, than Prue, she could more
easily enter into the spirit of lay doctrines,
and better relish the discourse that had uo
savour of the pulpit about it. Prue could not
honestly believe in anything that was not connected
with the Church ; that is to say, her
own Church. The Church was to her as the
vast seashore to the crab walking backwards.


 Let us first explain who we are,' resumed
the older man. ' My name, then, is
Derrober, a corruption of the original family
name of De Robert. My nephew, yonder, is
Dr. Franklin Derrober ; and we both  that is
to say, our ancestors half a dozen generations
back  migrated from these parts to the States.

112

But the gist of the matter is this. We were
just the people in Avant of a fortune, and just
the people wanted for a fortune. That is a
singular fact in itself, and it does not stand
alone. Why we want a fortune ! There is
the rub !'

The Doctor smiled.

Reformers are always as full of themselves
as an egg is full of meat. You see, ladies,
much as we enjoy your society and this scene,
that old gentleman yonder, my respected
uncle, can do nothing but talk of our plans.
Ay, and once you trot him out, he would goon
at a brisk canter till Doomsday.'

Themselves, ourselves,' broke in Mr.
Derrober indignantly. ' What are ourselves
but a portion of humanity ; and what is
humanity but a mass of hoping, erring, for
the most part, misguided mortals ? The
reproach is not theirs who speak ; it is theirs
who keep silent.'

Sabina and Prue began to feel really interested.
xVfter all, if the coveted fortune fell
into the hands of these good men, missionaries,

evangelists, at any rate philanthropists,
as they were, what right had they to complain
?

Hark ye, ladies !' added Mr. Derrober ;
before I go a step farther, let me put a question
to you. Did you ever read a book called
'' Brook Farm " ?'

Xo, they certainly had read no such book.
Many a story about a farm was familiar to
them ; none they knew called by that special
name.

Then,' replied the other, ' permit me to
say you have read nothing. " Brook Farm "
well, well  " Brook Farm " is another name
for a Phalanstery ; maybe you have never heard
of a Phalanstery either.'

Xo, that word was quite new to them, both
said.

Now, nephew, just tell the ladies what a
Phalanstery is. You turn off descriptions so
much quicker than I do.'

Thus appealed to, Dr. Derrober threw a
final pebble into a vortex of creamy waters,
and replied :

A Phalanstery ? well, a Phalanstery is
exactly what the world and society are not.
Put an ordinary woman into a Phalanstery,
and she is straightway transformed into
a nineteenth - century muse, adoring and
adored '

Oh dear !' cried Sabina. ' What a nice
place a Phalanstery must be !'

Prue also smiled approvingly.

Put an ordinary man into a Phalanstery,
and in a short space of time he will become a
decent copy of Plato or Franklin. In fact,
the difference between life inside our Phalanstery
and outside, is just the difference between
the rose and the thorn, the pearl and its
encumbering oyster, the sweet wine and the
bitter aloes.'

Only think of what your sex would obtain
in our model society,' said Mr. Derrober. ' A
goodly fellowship of kindred souls, work of
sublime, elevating kind, recreation befitting
creatures endowed with souls ; and of love,
neither stint nor spare.'

Sabina and Prue slightly blushed, beginning

to wonder if the conversation of these courteous,
well-bred gentlemen did not now verge
on impropriety.

The speaker looked about as light-minded
as a bishop on ordination day. His companion
seemed no whit more disposed to make
unseemly jests. Yet this discourse was passing
strange. The like of it they had never
heard before.

Could any rational being hesitate were
such a choice placed before him ?' continued
Mr. Derrober. ' On the one hand, an ignominious
elbowing in the crowd for bare bread
a miserably circumscribed existence at best
everything on the most niggardly, pinchbeck
scale ; for habitation, mere breathing-space
; for-flower-garden, a square yard full
of smoke-begrimed flowers ; for society, the
gossiping people of a country town.'

And morning and night,' put in the
Doctor, ' the same ignoble query. Have we,
ye beneficent gods who preside over pounds,
shillings, and pence  have wee now spent a
groat too much ?'

Sabina and True laughed with a little
bitterness. The allegory came home. Yes,
they understood it all  the pinchbeck, the
cheese-parings, the groat too much. Such a
life was theirs, and such a life was that of
thousands.

On the other hand,' resumed Mr. Derrober
' in our Phalanstery, I mean, circumstances
worthy of beings born to walk upright and
stare heaven-sent Destiny in the slice; a palatial
home, with beauty and nobleness to meet
the eye at every turn; fine music; grand
works of art ; parks and parterres such as
now only millionnaires enjoy ; elevating conversation
; and, to crown all, duties that shall
fit us for a life so rare, so nearly approaching
perfection.'

It sounds very pleasant, if one could only
manage to get into it into the Phalanstery, I
mean,' Sabina said innocently. ' There must
be always far too many applications.'

And what about expense ?' asked Prue,
always alive to the economic aspect of the
question. ' How could people with small, very

small incomes, expect to be received into such
an establishment ?'

'Ah!' laughed the satirical Doctor; 'there
you have hit the right nail on the head. Why
as yet does our Phalanstery exist only in
imagination ? Because there is no true spirit
of brotherhood amongst us. When society is
properly constituted, there will no longer be
any very rich or very poor, but one golden
spoon to feed the million-mouthed humanity ;
one purple cloak to cover the nakedness of all.'

And in hopes of getting an ingot towards
the golden spoon, a square inch of purple
cloth, Ave are on our way to Hopedale,' added
Derrober the elder. ' Whether we shall get
it is another question. So now, ladies, you
realize the situation, as far as nephew and self
are concerned

Then Sabina and Prue told them their
simple story. They spoke of their country
life ; the eking out existence in a tiny home ;
the hopes called forth by Mrs. de Eobert's
advertisement in the newspapers, and so on.
They became the best of comrades, and it was

finally decided that the return to Briardale
should be made together.

And just to think!' said Sabina to Prue,
when they were alone ; ' twenty, thirty-five
years ago, had my Edwin lived, our honeymoon
would have been spent at Lodore ; and
those waters have gone on * dinning and
spinning, and dropping and hopping " ever
since !'

HOW MR. BACCHUS FULFILS HIS ERRAND.

F the Kev. Mr. Bacchus had felt -a
proud and happy man when conducting
the Lodore coach, he felt
positive self-inflation when accompanying his
new claimants home. He had all along
coveted a share in that strange business
entrusted to the Vicar of Hopedale, Mrs. de
Eobert's ' next of kin,' and the something
they were to hear of to their advantage.

The pleasing responsibilities thereby incurred,
the frequent intercourse thus brought
about with the beautiful Miss Ivory, excited
in the Curate's breast a feeling of mild envy.
In spite of many excellent qualities of head

and heart, Mrs. de Eobert was not attractive
to the other sex ; for the sake of Eugenia, her
eccentricities and asperities were endured by
her two Mthful henchmen. In fact, a visit to
Hopedale was the gulping down of a pill
embedded in jam ; the submitting, schoolboy-like,
to have a tooth drawn for the bribe of a
shillings.

o

Mrs. de Eobert meant no harm, and never
did any harm to anybody ; but she stormed
and scolded and vituperated till she frightened
folks half out of their wits. Mr. Bacchus had
l)een enchanted to have the two ladies under
his roof; that was something, a decided step
in the right direction. The arrival of the
Derrobers and their installation at Briardale
was much more to the purpose.

Brimful of importance, Mr. Bacchus set out
for Hopedale. There was one charm in the
Curate's character. No matter what happened,
nothing could damp his ardour. Addicted ashe
was to self-depreciation, perhaps in small
matters the most conscience-stricken man
alive, if he felt enthusiasm about anything he

went on feeling it, let others say or do what
they would to discourage him.

The Vicar received the Curate with the utmost
affability, as well he might. Everything
about Mr. Meridian was in apple-pie order.
His women-servants would have gained prizes,
supposing prizes were awarded to model cooks,
house and parlour maids. Appearance, age,
dress, all was correctness itself. As to the
house, not a fly, much less a spider, would find
lodgment there, so thoroughly was it brooded
and bosomed from attic to cellar.

Time was kept at the Vicarage accurately
as at Greenwich Observatory. No dish was
ever known to have been brought to table
under false pretences.

You would never guess what happened tous
at Lodore,' burst forth the Curate. ' Only
think of falling in with a host of Mrs. de
Eobert's next of kin ! And Hopedale, above
all places in the world, to be overrun with
Socialists, Free-lovers and Mormons ! It
makes me feel out of date to think of it.'

Mr. Meridian smiled a little contemptuously.

He thought that in more senses than one the
Curate was out of date. Inwardly uneasy,
but without any betrayal of self-composure,
he replied :

If I understand you right, you have fallen
in with a somewhat numerous party of these
good people. Not all preachers of Socialist
doctrine, I presume V

Numbers  did I speak of numbers V asked
the Curate, looking aghast. * I hope not. I
never make use of numbers unless I can help
it. They are such stumbling-blocks ; such
snares, even to the wary.'

You certainly conveyed the impression of a
numerous company,' Mr. Meridian said. ' If
you intend to enlighten Mrs. de Eobert on the
subject, it were just as well to be exact. She
will feel sufficiently alarmed at the prospect of
one such claimant as you describe, to say
nothing of a score.'

No ; did I speak of a score ? I surely did
not speak of a score V asked the Curate ;
although figures always strike me as purely
relative. In a case like the present, for

Id stance  that of people got together in search
of something to their advantage, I mean  one
is a very large, a most alarming addition, in
the eyes of the rest ; whilst two is an enormous
addition, and three '

The chain of reasoning is somewhat
attenuated, but I understand your meaning,'
the Vicar replied. ' I take it for granted, then,
that Hopedale being overrun with Socialists is
a mere figure of speech, and perhaps one holder
of these doctrines has appeared in the field V .

Oh dear no ; no such thing,' replied the
Curate. 'What is one  by comparison with
two, I mean ? The difference is simply tremendous
 a gulf without a bottom !'

Then I presume you speak of two V

Just that. You have hit the mark to a
nicety,' the Curate made reply, feeling that he
had triumphantly emerged from a metaphysical
labyrinth. 'We fell in with two,
then  two gentlemen  always supposing them
to be gentlemen  from the States, who are
Socialists, or Mormons, or something of the
kind. It does not really matter what men

are when they are anything  anything out of
the ordinary way, I mean.'

And their present abode V

Well, they abide nowhere. That is to say,
they slept last night at Briardale, but intend
to roam about the country till they hear from
you  till they are wanted.'

Pray keep them up to that intention,' the
Vicar replied, greatly relieved. ' They certainly
are not wanted just now. And, my dear
Bacchus, have you a spare half-hour ? If so,
do oblige me by calling on Mrs. de Eobert. I
am overwhelmed with business at this moment.'


I shall be delighted to oblige you,' the
Curate said, evidently obliging himself still
more by accepting the task. ' Mrs. de
Robert always snaps my head off, yet, as I find
it on my shoulder when required, I don't
mind in the least  why should I V

Mr. Meridian understood well enough why
the other did not mind, and already had half
regretted having charged him with such an
errand. Yet, could anything be more absurd

than to regard the Curate in the light of a
rival ? No ; much better stay at home, and
let him for once bear the brunt of Mrs. de
Robert's thunder and lightning. He had experienced
enough of her temper to last for
some time to come. Still, he no sooner saw
Mr. Bacchus setting off so jauntily for the
Manor, than he straightway wished he had
gone himself. Why embroil another unnecessarily
in this business  above all, the
Curate ? Do what he would, the Curate could,
not state a case clearly, were it the mere
boiling of an egg. Thus the Yicar put the
matter to himself.

However, he was off, and there was no
more stopping him now than stopping a
schoolboy on a half holiday. Fast as his
long legs could carry him, swinging his cane
gaily as he went, Mr. Bacchus was out of
sight before the Vicar could formulate his
regret.

Eugenia met her visitor at the garden gate
with a beaming face. She had not a particle
of coquetry in her composition ; but she could

VOL. I. 12

not help being kind to Mr. Bacchus. He was
often so much more agreeable to her than the
Yicar, which was not perhaps saying much,
yet was certainly saying something.

I hope you have met with adventures on
your journey V were her first words.

More than I can count on my fingers,' was
the eager reply ; the Curate exulting in the
thought of the revelation to come.

How delightful !' cried the young lady ;
and so encouraging ! You must know that
it is all settled, then : in two months' time,
come what may, Mrs. de Eobert and myself
set forth, like Don Quixote and Sancho Panza,
in search of the marvellous.'

Oh dear !' cried the Curate, his gaiety.
gone in a moment ; ' I hope not.'

You hope not V cried Eugenia. ' If you
have the slightest regard for us both, not to
speak of friendship, you must hope what we
hope ; otherwise you put yourself on the
precise footing of an enemy.'

Always driving me into a corner !' said
Mr. Bacchus. ' Well, it is better to be driven

into a corner than driven nowhere  by you, I
mean.'

Eugenia could not resist a smile at the
Curate's perversity.

*Why this perpetual harping upon two
words "you" and ''me'V she said. "you"
and " me " ! I wish they were banished from
the Dictionary. But now, tell me your adventures
in proper order, and the rest of my
news you shall have afterwards.'

There you have me again !' said the poor
Curate. * I never can tell things except as
they come into my head ; and, generally
speaking, what ought to come last comes first,
and what ought to come first is left out
altogether. However, one adventure I must
tell you. All the neighbourhood is talking
about it. You will see my name in the papers.
I quite expect a reproof from the Bishop.'

What rash exploit are you the hero of V
laughingly asked Miss Ivory. * My curiosity
is greatly excited.'

The Bishop can't do less, you see; and I
couldn't do less. We must all act when the

122

fit is on us, regardless of consequences. I am
sure the fit is on one seldom enough. Well, I
undertook to drive the Lodore coach, and
overturned it  not overturned it exactly, but
everybody thought I had done so, which
amounts to the same thing. Out came the
entire population  I mean all the people in
the hotel  frantic with terror. The hallooing
of the men, the screams of the women  you
can't conceive the noise they made. Dore,
roaring behind, was the buzzing of a fly to it.
On we went, like Jehu, like Phaeton  the fellow
who overturned the sun, you know  like John
Gilpin ; and there was no stopping us  so
there seemed, at least, but I had the horses
well in hand all the time. And then, when
we had gone like the wind for miles  I won't
swear it was miles, but when we seemed to
have gone miles  that is what I mean  the
bystanders thought all our necks were broken,
and the passengers had frightened themselves
into thinking the same thing  then in a trice
you never saw a neater job in your life  lo
and behold, there we were !'

And where was the " were " V asked
Eugenia, highly amused.

Why, at Lodore, of course ! That was
the joke of it ! The horses hadn't run away ;
the coach had never been overturned at all ;
everybody had a whole skin as before.'

'Then you won't get a reproof from the
Bishop  that is one comfort,' Eugenia said,
slightly disappointed. * And now for adventure
number two.'

Number two  let me see, which is number
two 1 I have so much to tell you, I don't
know where to begin. Well, we were all
drowned the next morning in Derwent Water.
You have surely heard of that V

You must all have as many lives as a cat !'
smiled Miss Ivory. * Necks broken one day,
drowned the next, and on the third I suppose
you tumbled headlong into a chasm on
Helvellyn, where you are now hopelessly
immured T

Ah ! Helvellyn. If I once begin to tell
you what adventures befell us on Helvellyn, I
shall not leave off till midnight,' replied Mr.

Bacchus. ' Helvellyn is the place for adventures
! We began there by being robbed
and murdered  well, not murdered exactly,
and fortunately not robbed, as we took the
precaution of leaving our money behind us ;
but some highwaymen, armed from head to
foot, waylaid us in a lonely spot ; and had I
not shown fight, we should have come off
badly.'

'Highwaymen on Helvellyn T exclaimed
Eugenia.

Well, what are tramps with club-sticks
but highwaymen armed from head to foot ?
The same thing in other words. I brandished
my stick, and the ladies gave them sixpence
apiece ; and so we continued our journey.'

Ah !' sighed Eugenia, ' how I long for the
next two months to pass, as I listen to you 
for my own turn to come ! But it is as I say :
Mrs. de Robert and myself do really set forth
on the first of October, like Don Quixote and
Sancho Panza, in search of adventure.'

Again the Curate looked the most crestfallen
man under the sun.

I know the sort of adventure you are sure
to meet with,' he said, in a melancholy, almost
morose voice.

Eugenia feigned not to understand the insinuation.


It is not yet quite settled where we go
she said, in the same buoyant, anticipatory
voice ; * but we go somewhere.'

'And do you never intend to return to
Hopedale V asked the Curate, still looking
desperately low-spirited.

Since one cannot get even to Lodore without
being killed three or four times over,
it does not seem very probable that we shall
ever get back safe and sound from the other
end of the world,' was the young lady's reply.

No, you cannot be really serious. The
other end of the world ! There is plenty to
see without going half that distance,' rejoined
the disconsolate Mr. Bacchus.

By the way,' said Eugenia, anxious to give
a new turn to the conversation, ' you showed
me your roses the other day. Now come and
see mines

For half an hour the pair lingered among
the roses  Eugenia the fairest there. Small
matter for wonder that the Curate was loth to
go. Not that she uttered a syllable the
most hopeful adorer could construe into encouragement.
She tripped him up in his
metaphors ; laughed him out of his sentimentalities
 in fact, administered as wholesome a
tonic as ever lover quaffed from the hands of
his mistress.

But he enjoyed the privilege of looking at
her, listening to her all the while ; intoxication
of her presence made him unmindful of
the fleeting moments. On a sudden, the sight
of a glow-worm recalled the lateness of the
hour. He said adieu hastily, and hurried off.

Nor did he remember, till inside his own
door, that he had never fulfilled his errand
after all. Miss Ivory and her roses had
entirely put the Socialists, Mormons, and Free-lovers
out of his head. What on earth would
Mr. Meridian think of him now ?

MACHINATIONS.

jOITY-TOITY toity-tum !' cried

Mrs. de Robert, a day or two

afterwards. ' Here is a letter of

invitation from the Vicar. He is mighty

amiable all of a sudden ! Well, I'm not

going, if you are, Iveyy. Much I'm wanted, I

know.'

Miss Ivory took the proffered note and read

it aloud :

" Hoped ALE Vicarage,

'''July 20, 1875.

" Dear Mrs. de Robert,

" Will you and Miss Ivory give me the

pleasure of your company to an al-fresco tea

this day week ? A party of friends touring
in these parts will be with me, also a few
neighbours. As the Vicarage gardens are
somewhat small, I propose to do vicarious
hospitality in the grounds of Marsden Park,
placed at my disposition during Sir Charles's
absence. The hour of meeting, four o'clock ;
the place, the terrace overlooking the park.

" Trusting that you will both confer the
favour of your company upon me, I remain,
with kind regards to Miss Ivory and yourself,


' Yours very truly,

" Algae MeKIDIxIN."

The very opportunity we want for wearing
our new summer gowns !' exclaimed Eugenia
approvingly.

Is that a good reason for being put out of
one's way, and bored into the bargain?' asked
Mrs. de Robert.

It is better than no reason, an3diow,' was
the reply. ' Do go to please me, Roberta ;
besides, we are really bound to accept this

invitation. Mr. Meridian evidently wishes to
fete us before we take our final departure from
Hopedale.'

Mrs. de Robert smiled significantly.

Yes, I see through it all. The Yicar is
over head and ears in love with you, Jenny.
He will leave no stone unturned in order to
gain his point.'

Eugenia smiled significantly also. The
note suggested other motives to her own
mind; without letting the elder lady suspect
her thoughts, she returned to the immediate
question at issue.

You will let me accept the invitation for
both of us, anyhow ?'

Oh, accept by all means ! Never refuse an
invitation, were it from his Satanic Majesty
himself Whether I go is wholly another
matter.*

'Always supposing that you do go, you
will wear your new plum-coloured silk .'
asked Eugenia.

'What does it matter what I wear? An
old woman like me may go the veriest scarecrow

in the world, and none are a jot the
wiser.'

We don't dress becomingly for the sake of
making people wiser replied Eugenia, ' nor
better, that I know of Yet a well-dressed
woman always seems to me a walking-sermon.'


There is something in that, Iveyy. How
many women have gone to perdition, body and
soul, through wearing draggle-tail petticoats !'

Then we will both dress as beautifully for
Mr. Meridian's party as if our very salvation
depended on it,' said Miss Ivory; and she sat
down to write the most cordial note imaginable
to the Vicar.

Nothing more was said at the time ; when,
however, Eugenia met the Vicar in her walks,
lie saw that she had unravelled his little plot.
They stood smiling at each other without a
word.

So,' she said at last, ' you invite us to a
garden-party under false pretences? Mrs. de
Eobert is to be surreptitiously presented to
her next of kin ?'

Why are you so deep ? Can you never be
satisfied with seeing no farther than your
neighbours?' said Mr. Meridian. 'However,
as you have exercised your ingenuity at my
expense, you have saved me the trouble of
explanations. Could I act otherwise? Here
are these good people coming as fast as
swallows in May, and Mrs. de Robert won't
so much as see them. It places me in an
awkward, a ludicrous position.'

Do tell me who have come, and all about
them,' Eugenia said, keenly inquisitive.

The Vicar laughed sarcastically.

 I sent Bacchus two days ago to enlighten
you both on the subject, and, as usual, he
forgot his errand. Sir Isaac Newton himself
could not have done me a better turn ; Mrs.
de Robert now knows nothing of the party of
friends touring in the Lake district, of whom
I wrote.'

Are they old or young, dull or amusing V
asked Eugenia.

Let me see ; I think we have a little of
everything. There is  but you had better wait

and judge for yourself,' replied the Vicar provokingly.
' Only do get Mrs. de Robert to
come. She may find that these much-dreaded
claimants are as harmless as possible  sheep in
wolves' clothing, jackass dressed up in lions'
skins

He eyed his companion narrowly, and
added :

Are you quite sure of one thing ? Will
Mrs. de Robert part with her property after
all ? What if she chancres her mind ? A
tragic finale to a sorry farce, that !'

No,' answered Eugenia, with great decision.
' She will be as good as her word,
never fear. She is carrying out her late
husband's wishes ; in her eyes, a sacred
trust.'

I sincerely hope that you will prove a
true prophet. I confess, at times, I feel misgivings.
The affair, moreover, should not be
allowed to drag on indefinitely. A date
should be fixed for the transfer of the property,
by a distribution, sortition, or otherwise.'


I have proposed a plan, and Mrs. de
Robert makes no objection replied Miss
Ivory. 'A selection of candidates shall be
made. Two or three of those possessing the
best claims shall be retained, the others dismissed
; then the property shall be equitably
divided and drawn lots for. It would be as
exciting as the casket scene in the " Merchant
offences'"

'If Portia's portrait occupied the casket,'
observed the Vicar drily.  But what if all
put forth equal claims, and the names of the
applicants are Legion ?'

In that case I shall try to persuade Mrs.
de Robert to give everybody something
Eugenia said. ' Anything is better than
nothing.'

Even " a gross of green spectacles in
shagreen cases ;" at least, so said the immortal
Dr. Primrose. Twenty thousand pounds carefully
expended will go a good way, certainly,
in the purchase of green spectacles.'

The conversation thus amicably terminated
was not renewed till the eventful day of the

party. Mr. Meridian had his own reasons for
not calling at the Manor House in the interval.
He wished to avoid Mrs. de Robert's close
fire of interrogation ; he was also busy in
making preparations. Ashen the Vicar undertook
an affair he prided himself upon doing it
well, and he certainly merited such self approval.
No pains were now spared to make
his entertainment as brilliant as possible. He
knew that Miss Ivory would be magnificent
upon the occasion, and he determined to be
magnificent also. Thus, although a mansion
and superb pleasure-grounds were placed at
his disposal, he must aggrandize and embellish
to the utmost. Marquees of latest design
were ordered from Lancaster, Italian confectioners
engaged for the proper management
of ices and creams, musicians to entice to improvised
dance, with exotics and fruit in regal
abundance.

The garden-party was quite as much of a
compliment to Miss Ivory as a fraud practised
upon Mrs. de Eobert. There was more than
one affair Mr. Meridian did not wish to dragon

indefinitely. If, as seemed possible and
even probable, the two ladies would quit
Hopedale in the autumn, he must do the best
he could for himself before their departure ; in
other words, he must secure an opportunity
of pressing his suit. The garden-party might
help to further his wishes.

Meantime the Derrobers, uncle and nephew,
were let into the secret, and were keeping
themselves in the background. They visited,
one after another, the sweet little watering-places
studded about Morecambe Bay. These
miniature oases of verdure and centres of
life between the silent fells and placid inland
sea had a strange fascination for the Transatlantic
travellers. Such sleepy townley as
Grange and Aside seemed godlike to them,
accustomed as they were to bigness and
bustle everywhere. Pleasant, too, the feeling
of isolation from the crowd of travelling
folk.

These little dales, nestled at the feet of the
widely-parted Cumberland and Westmoreland
hills, seemed to have been left out of the

VOL. I. 13

tourist's itinerary and map altogether. The
sea-board villages were frequented by a handful
of local holiday-makers only ; whilst inland
the solitude was almost unbroken, alike on
breezy height and park-like pastures.

The sight of such glorious pastures might
lead the uninitiated to take England for a
pastoral country, a land in which shepherds
and milkmaids are not mythical personages.
The eagle soaring overhead  a sight to be
thankful for  reminds us that the war of extermination
waged against Nature's fiercest
and grandest children has not been entirely
successful.

Pleasant to turn from the doomed eagle,
flashing through the blue heavens like a
meteor, to the homelier birds encouraged to
live. So numerous are they, so fearless in the
.presence of man, that indeed they may be thus
described. Hearken to the pewit's human-like
cry ; watch the husbandman turning up the
fallow, and you will perceive the bird keeping
close to him, as if from feelings of protection
and good-fellowship.

What pleased the travellers no less was
the general look of cultivation, even finish,
in waste places. Not a lonely crag without its
green tapestry; no sound of axe, much less of
steam felling-machine, in the woods ; no half-constructed
shanty amid fields ploughed but
yesterday; no signs either of growth or demolition
 Eden-like repose brooding over all.

Whilst these two claimants thus obligingly
hid themselves from view, equally inconspicuous
were any others who might have conte
forward. 'No rumour of them was permitted
to reach Mrs. de Robert's, ears ; and fortunately
the Vicar's garden-party and the extraordinarily
handsome preparations he was making
for it, diverted the general attention.

The neighbours gossiped now, not of the
next of kin, and the something they were to
hear of to their advantage, but of Mr. Meridian's
Italian iceman and his subordinates ;
Mr. Meridian's orchestra ; Mr. Meridian's
marquees. It was the Yi car's this, that, and
the other, from morning till night.

As to Sabina and Prue, his 



worded invitation had fairly turned their
heads. No such sumptuous entertainment
lead as yet fallen to their share. The affair
seemed so important that even the Curate's
advice was asked upon certain points.

 You see,' Prue said, with a girlish blush
of hesitating appeal, ' after all you have
told us about Mrs. de Robert, we naturally
feel a little nervous. If we are fine, she will
think we don't want her money ; and if weare
dowdies, she may turn from us with repulsion.'


And it is still more difficult to know how
to behave under such circumstances,' Sabina
said. ' If we are humble, we shall be set
down as toadies ; and if we hold up our heads,
may be abused as upstarts. I wish from the
bottom of my heart the awful day were well
over.'

Don't say that,' put in Prue. ' People
should always be grand when they can. Let
us be grand for once.'

Mr. Bacchus now felt called upon to deliver
an opinion.

Dress!' be said. ' Dear me, I am the last
person in the world to be consulted as an
authority upon dress. If I am never made a
bishop, it will be because I neglect my personal
appearance. It is always the best-dressed
men who get to be canons, deans, and so
forth. And women, too. The women who
get on in the world are those who think of
nothing, morning, noon, and night, but how
they look. I am sure of that, little else as I
know of the matter.'

The listeners smiled. They could not go
into details, but might, nevertheless, learn
much from their oracle.

I suppose,' put in Prue, the coquette of
the two, ' upon these occasions ladies wear
bright colours.'

That's it,' said Mr. Bacchus ; ' white
dresses, pink sashes, straw-hats with daisies :
the sort of thing to get wet through in ; one
always gets wet through upon these occasions,
and, you see, the mise-en-scene demands it.
AYe must always consult our mise-en-scene ;
it is just the poor wretches like myself who

don't that never advance a step forwarder in
life.'

Then we must not wear our black silk
dresses said Prue to Sabina, in an undertone.


And as to behaviour,' the Curate went on,
my notion of behaviour is to do and say-exactly
what comes into one's head. It
doesn't suit everybody, but it is the only way
to treat Mrs. de Robert. She sees through
people in a moment. Never was such a
woman for that.'

She seems rather a formidable person,'
said poor Prue.

I wish we could enjoy the party without
having to undergo the introduction at all,'
added Sabina.

After all,' Mr. Bacchus put in consolingly,
the worst harm she can do you is to give you
none of her money. She can't have your
teeth drawn, shut you up in a mad-house, or
cause you any bodily injury.'

And, as my Edwin was always saying,'
Sabina put in,  those who expect the sweet

without the sour in this life are blinking
idiots. If you have enjoyed a country walk,
ten chances to one you will encounter an
infuriated bull on your way home. If somebody
gives you eye pounds one day, somebody
else is sure to borrow it of you the
next. It is a law of nature.'

There is something in that,' said the
Curate. ' If Mrs. de Eobert makes you feel
uncomfortable, she may compensate by giving
you something ; and if she is sweet as honey,
yet doesn't give you anything, you will at
least have enjoyed the party and the ices. It
is years since I tasted an ice myself. I would
do anything compatible with orthodoxy for an
ice I

What with conversation so agreeable as
this, preparations for the gala day, and the
usual routine of household business, the interval
passed all too quickly under the
Curate's roof

THE BEGINNING OF THE GALA.

HE day dawned auspiciously. There
was a look of certitude about the
sky and light clouds. Far away
the fells stood out sharp and clear, a sign of
fine weather in this region. The birds, too,
heralded the morning vociferously, as if they
too felt sure of fine weather.

Yes,' were Prue's first words, as she drew
up the blind ; ' you may wear your lemon-coloured
silk, and I my embroidered muslin.
And our new feathers, too ; we need be under
no uneasiness about them. Whatever else
may happen to-day, it won't rain.'

I don't see what should happen, except

that Mrs. de Robert turns the cold shoulder
upon us,' Sabina replied. ' Jut if we obtain
nothing' to our advantage, we shall not have
undertaken this journey for nothing. Think
of the experience of life it has given us, the
new ideas we shall take back ! I feel a wholly
different creature already.'

Alas ! poor Prue echoed the sentiment
rather wistfully. She also felt a wholly
different creature, and in more senses than
one. As she laid out the finery she was. to
wear upon this occasion, the muslin dress,
the lace shawl, the Tuscan bonnet with its
gay feather, she wondered if anyone would
notice her appearance ; meaning, by anyone,
the Curate.

For the first time in her life she had formed
an intimate friendship with a man ; the masculine
element in her domestic life and society
being hitherto represented by stocking-mending
for brothers and devout attention to pulpit
utterances, with little enough of romance to begot
out of either.

This sojourn under the Curate's roof was

like a chapter out of a novel. The Rev. Mr.
Bacchus was not exactly a hero, an ideal ;
but he was joyous, kind-hearted, openness
itself, the sort of man any woman must
like.

So, at least, thought Prudence Perfect  a
partial judge, perhaps ; and then came a vision
of Miss Ivory, the beautiful, fascinating Miss
Ivory. Yes, hard as it would be to quit
Briardale, the sooner it was quitted the better
for her own peace of mind. If she were to
stay much longer, she should feel rooted to
the place.

Mr. Bacchus came doAvn to breakfast in the
highest spirits.

I don't know how it is,' he said, ' but
pleasure suits me so much better than work.
Yesterday, now, why on earth should I feel
ready to hang myself yesterday ? Simply
because I had churches, baptisms, burials,
everything you can think of, from morning
till night. Whilst to-day, just because I have
nothing on earth to do but play lawn-tennis
and drink iced claret, I feel bursting with

happiness. I confess human nature is a perfect
riddle to me.'

Sabina and Prue laughed.

I am afraid we are all alike in this respect,'
replied Prue. 'We would rather follow our
own inclinations than anything else.'

And why that should be wrong, I can't
conceive,' said Mr. Bacchus. ' No, I may
honestly say it to you two ladies, no theologian
who ever lived, from St. Augustine
down to Dr. Pusey, has ever satisfied me, or
anything like satisfied me, on this especial
point. I wish everybody would speak outwith
regard to their own feelings, and then
we might get to the truth of the matter.'

Here and there are people to be found who
would rather not follow their own inclination,'
put in the metaphysical Sabina. ' Joan of
Arc must have really preferred not to be
burnt, only she preferred in a greater degree
to do what she knew would lead to being
burnt. I suppose when human beings are
nearly perfect, they can turn and twist about
their inclinations just as they like.'

So the Romanists pretend,' put in the
Curate. ' But here is another metaphysical
problem for you. If they can only arrive at
this condition by force  that is to say, by
driving their own wills as I drive my pony
wherein consists their perfection ? Well,
ladies, I must be off to clean the basket-chaise,
or it will never be dry in time to
start.'

The cleaning of the basket-carriage was not
the only task on the Curate's hands that
morning. What with grooming Jack, mending
and polishing the harness, and his own
boots, the twelve-o'clock dinner came all too
soon.

We will start in good time,' he said, as ho
sat down to help the beans and bacon in high
good-humour. ' Always get your money's
Avorth, I say. We don't pay our friends for
their entertainment, it is true ; but we pay for
it in some way or another. I am sure I
could have married half a score of couples
in the time it took me to clean that pony-chaise.'


By dint of great exertions the little party
contrived to get off at an early hour after all.
At the last moment, indeed, it seemed as if
they should be prevented from going altogether.
Georgie tumbled off the garden wall
and narrowly escaped deadly injury. Baby
turned black in the face and showed symptoms
of a fit. The Curate's coat did not come
home from the tailor's. Sabina's lemon-coloured
silk and Prue's embroidered muslin
were not sent back, as promised, from the
village dressmaker's. All was consternation,
dreadful surmise, and anxiety. However, by
dint of resolution and energetic action these
obstacles were overcome one at a time, and in
jaunty humour the three set forth. The
Curate flourished his whip; Sabina and Prue
leaned back, rosy with pleasure; and as they
dashed past many a handsomer equipage, they
envied nobody. Break and brougham, landau
and victoria, all were bound to the Vicar's
entertainment ; but so was the Curate's shabby
basket-carriage.

Marsden Tower, the seat of Mr. Meridian's

neighbour, Sir Charles IMarsden, would have
seemed fairy-land to Sabina and Prue at anytime.
Not that the mansion had anything
extraordinary about it. Belonging neither to
legend nor history, its very name was a misnomer,
reminding us of those fortified manor-houses
so necessary during Border warfare.
The ruined tower close to the modern mansion
was a mere shell, haunt of owl and
raven; whilst Marsden Tower itself was all
compactness, solidity, and comfort.

The fascination of the place in the eyes of
most people consisted in the vast wooded
park, given up to fallow-deer. A more enchanting
scene could hardly be imagined.
Golden glades and dusky shadow of veteran
oaks, with graceful herds sporting unterrified
by man. It was a scene out of that poem for
summer-time, the ' Faerie Queene.'

The preparations for the Yicar's celebration
and the celebration itself had driven the pretty
creatures a little farther from the house, but
there they were in sight of the gala folk.

The Curate and his guests had decided to

be early, so it seemed had everyone else.
When they reached the park-gates in sight of
the terrace, they found a gay and bewildering
company already assembled. The fact is, many
had come from such distances, that only by
arriving early could they rest their horses
sufficiently to return by nightfall. Mr. Meridian
was the very person to disentangle
himself adroitly from the complications of the
day.

The very genius of finesse must have presided
at his birth, and had he not been born
to wear the bishop's apron, he might have
shone in diplomacy. Neo sooner did he now
catch sight of the Curate at his gates than
he hastened to get the difficult business over.

Giving his arm to Sabina, and motioning
Mr. Bacchus to follow with Prue, he led them
straight into the awful presence of Mrs. de
Robert. It was a terrible moment for both,
not in the least made less terrible by the
brilliant crowds, the buzz of voices, the general
air of gaiety and expectation, the enjoyment
that they knew was to follow.

Let me present two ladies to you who
have impatiently waited for the pleasure,'
Mr. Meridian said, as he formally introduced
Sabina and Prue to the much-dreaded kinswoman.
' They will tell you how much they
are enjoying their sojourn at Briardale.* Then
he turned to welcome fresh arrivals.

Mrs. de Robert eyed the pair with almost a
viperish look. AVhat harm was there in them ?
Of what other pattern would she have had
them made ? Yet she glanced from one lo
the other as if Sabina's lemon coloured silk
and poor Prue's embroidered muslin betokened
a demi-monde, a class of womankind
offensive alike to morality and johte
society.

Humph! there is no accounting for taste!'
Mrs. de Robert jerked out.

Whether the remark applied to their appearance
or to Briardale, the two friends
could not imagine. It was, anyhow, a
humiliating one, and it destroyed their last
remnant of self-composure. Sabina tried to
say something, but her tongue cleaved to the

roof of her mouth. Prue could only smile in a
meaningless way, feeling all the while ready
to cry.

You may like Briardale, or you may not,'
jerked out Mrs. de Robert. * Nobody can
say it is my fault  nobody can possibly
blame me.'

 Oh dear no Sabina managed to get out.

 Of course not,' murmured Prue, in a husky
voice.

They both looked extremely wretched. Mrs.
de Robert laid their depression to the door oT
Mr. Meridian's hints concerning the property.
They were in despair, all but ready to hang
themselves because they had come so far to no
purpose, she thought.

It is always so in this world,' she stormed
on ; ' if we rescue a fly from drowning, it is
sure to be gobbled up by a spider the next
moment. The more people try to benefit
others, the more harm they do.'

She felt bound to make some sort of apology
for having vainly aroused expectations, and
determined to do it now or never.

VOL. I. 14

I wish folks could take all they have got
with them when they quit this world. AYhat
envy, hatred, and malice would thereby be
avoided !' she went on. ' There is my husband,
now, poor darling  one must die to
be a darling, as I am always saying ! If
he had spent all he had on a diamond ring,
and been buried with it on his finger, how
much better for himself and everybody concerned
! Well, 'tis no use crying over spilt
milk ; and the thing is not my doing, abuse
me as folks may.'

I am sure no one will abuse you,' Prue
said tremblingly.

How can you be sure, I should like to
know? I shall be heaped with abuse, I tell
you! Only think, now! That ever such a
thing should have happened to me, a staunch
Protestant, if ever there was one, ready to
burn every image-worshipper and Papist I
come across  to think, I say, of a claimant
coming forward to my husband's property, a
confessed, brazen-faced Jesuit !'

A Jesuit !' cried the horrified Prae.

A Jesuit !' echoed Sabina, astonished,
but quite free from Prue's theological aversions.


A Jesuit, as true as my name is Sarah
Roberts  for, you know, that is my name, turn
and twist it about as you please. My poor
husband stuck to the family motto and the
Fleur de Us, and all the rest of it, as Don
Quixote stuck to his barber's basin ; but, Lord
love you ! there hasn't been a de Robert since
the battle of Bosworth Field, when the Earl
lost his head and title for fighting with
Richard III.  two villains together, I'll warrant
! However, that's neither here nor there.
My poor husband's craze about his pedigree
has got me into this quandary, is what I
meant to say. And a rapscallion, ragamuffin
lot it will bring about me, I see plain
enough.'

I hope not,' poor Prue said, feeling half
afraid that both Sabina and herself were included
in this category.

Hope that curs won't prowl round the
scavenger's cart, and that wasps won't find

142

out the rotten apple !' Mrs. de Eobert replied,
in the same sharp peppery tones. ' Well,' she
resumed, more good-naturedly, ' there are none
of them here, thank God ! though why I
have come myself, and why you have come,
1 can't conceive. As if a parcel of old
women where wanted at such a party as
this !'

That was the most mortifying speech of all.
Prue, always youthful-looking for her age, had
fondly imagined herself rejuvenated almost
past recognition by the white embroidered
muslin and Tuscan bonnet with peach-colour
feathers.

Sabina, too, could not conceal her vexation.
She was free from her companion's amiable
little vanities. She did not care a straw
whether she looked youthful or aged. Mrs.
de Robert's suggestion damped her ardour all
the same.

Fortunately, at this juncture Miss Ivory
came up, beaming with kindliness and animation.
AVho so well able to dispense smiles
and encouraging speeches? Youth, beamy.

spirit, goodness, seemed the domain over which
she ruled with such easy sway. Why need
she think of herself when there were so many
others to think of her ? She had but to shine
like a star, embellish like a flower, and her
task was done.

Do come and have some tea, the most
Wonderful tea in the world !' she said, giving
her arm to Sabina, whilst Mr. Bacchus followed
with Prae. The Vicar was already at
Mrs. de Robert's side, making fresh introductions.
' Then, as it is still too warm for
lawn-tennis, we will, if you like, stroll through
the picture-gallery and china-room.'

Delightful indeed !' replied Sabina and
Prae in a breath. They felt almost as much
relieved as some unhappy mariner just freed
from the clutches of an octopus. Every step
that removed them from Mrs. de Robert
helped to restore their spirits.

Then the tea  ' It must have cost ten shillings
a pound at least,' said Sabina ; and the
piles of strawberries, each as big as codlings ;
the massive plate ; the crystal ; the exotics 

what an experience to remember and talk of
afterwards !

Mrs. de Robert's final innuendo was soon
forgotten, too; everybody else was so sociable
and so cordial that the pair felt it impossible
to believe they were not wanted.

Eugenia introduced them to friends and
neighbours. Mr. Meridian, in spite of the
numerous claims upon his attention, did not
overlook them ; Mr. Bacchus was all gaiety
and attention. The Derrobersuncle and
nephew  found them out. Nothing, indeed,
was now wanting to their satisfaction and
enjoyment.

MRS. DE ROBERT m THE CHINA-CUPBOARD.

RS. DE ROBERT was also recovering
herself. She was even beginning
to be amused. The belief
that she had seen the last of her next of
kin, at any rate for that day, had exercised
the happiest effect on her spirits. After all,
the people here might be dull. They might
pretend to find pleasure in each other's society,
feeling bored all the time. Mr. Meridian might
as well have thrown his money into the sea.
Nevertheless, the whole thing amused her
mightily. She liked to hear the Vicar's guests
talk, to watch how they behaved, to see how

they dressed ; and it was pleasant to move
about in that spacious park and watch the
pretty deer disporting themselves.

In fact, when her host came up with an
elderly, agreeable, and spiritual-minded-look-
ing man, and introduced him as Mr. Derrober,
a friend on'atour with his nephew in these
parts, Mrs. de Robert was positively ingratiating.
She had got over the trouble of
dressing for this party, and she had got over
the annoyance of introduction to Selina Beckett
and Patience Purfle, as she persisted in calling
them. There was no longer any reason
for feeling bearish.

You say you are soon about to set forth on
your travels, Mrs. de Eobert,' said the Vicar,
also in high good-humour. ' Here is a gentleman
who may tempt you to visit the orange-groves
of Florida or the Mammoth Caves of
Kentucky. My guest is from the other side
of the Atlantic'

Oh ! you come from America, do you V
asked Mrs. de Eobert, blunt but affable. ' I
have a mighty liking for your country, sir ;

leastways, I should have, if ever I set eyes on
it. What I admire in Americans is their good
sense about family pedigrees, coats of arms,
and such tomfoolery. Just look about you
now.' Here she dropped her voice.

There is a Lord and Lady Somebody and a
Sir What's-his-name or two here ; you will
know them by the bowing and scrapings
they get. Then a Duke is expected to put in
an appearance : the very deer will take
fright at that. No, America for me ; no flattering,
no toadying  every mother's son on his
own footing.'

The elder Derrober smiled.

I fear, madam, your compliments must betaken
with some reservation. Is the worship
of Mammon greatly to be preferred to that of
race and ancestry ? Keep your almighty
dollars, I say, and give me instead the bones
of my forefathers.'

Much good would the bones of your forefathers
do you r retorted Mrs. de Eobert.
'Money is a good thing enough  if only
folks knew how to spend it !'

Ah, there's the rub 1' replied the other.

Even for the wise, what a task to get, much
less keep, rich ! Did you ever hear of one
able to do it ? Our millionnaires expend thousands
of dollars on a picture or pleasure -
garden. How much more expensive, how
ruinous is an idea !'

Oh !' cried Mrs. de Robert, ' it must be
pleasant to have ideas, whether they ruin us
or not. To be like Shakespeare, Milton, and
Sir Isaac Newton, I mean. But it's my
notion they are as much out of date as the
Crusades.'

Never believe that, madam,' was the reply.

The world wants ideas now more than when
Gutenberg invented printing ; aye, and will
get them, too. As we look around, what meets
our eyes but a spectacle of crime, misery, and
wretchedness  destined, think you, to last forever
V

I hope not, I am sure,' Mrs. de Eobert
replied. ' How ideas are to mend matters, I
don't see.'

Ah 1 we want time to talk that out,* said

Derrober, his face lighting up with a charming
expression. ' The scene, the hour, the occasion
are hardly appropriate for a dissertation
on suffering humanity. I owe you an apology
for introducing it at all. What a picture
before us at this moment I Yon mottled deer,
sporting amid the glades ; the little lake,
crystal clear, on the forest's edge  park, I
suppose I should call it  the reflections of
blue sky and snow-white cloud ; the rich
foliage beyond.'

Yes ; 'tis a sweet pretty spot. Seldom
enough does one get a chance of seeing it,'
was the answer. * Our aristocrats are a mighty
exclusive set. One might suppose places
wore into holes by being looked at, so much
pains do they take to shut them up.'

Which proves a sad want of ideas on their
part,' began the other.

Just then the Vicar came up, and, apparently
without design, introduced the nephew,
as he had before introduced the uncle.

You can find your way about here as well
as myself,' he said to Mrs. de Robert ingratiatingly.

' Do let my visitors inspect the
picture-gallery and china-cupboard with you,
whilst it is too hot for the gardens !'

I know as much about pictures as most
folks,' Mrs. de Robert said, abrupt but compliant.
' That is to say, I can manage to find
out which is the top, which is the bottom, and
whether 'tis a sea or land piece. However,
we will make our wise criticisms together.'

Mrs. de Robert does indeed know something
about old china ; and few country
houses possess a choicer collection than this,'
added the Vicar ; then he left the trio
together.

Humph !' cried Mrs. de Robert ;  I understand
old china to my cost, true enough, as
the Vicar knows right well. Did you notice
his teasing look ? I'll tell you about my cups
and saucers presently. Let us look at these
whilst we have the chance.'

The china-cupboard was, in reality, an
elegant little boudoir, with a carol window,
rose-garlanded settees covered with old blue
damask, a blue French carpet, and light oak

cabinets displaying the china to best advantage.
It was a gem, a bijou, the strangers
said, quite enchanted. Other visitors passed
in and out ; Mrs. de Eobert and her companions
lingered.

Now, nephew,' began the elder Derrober,
you and I know as much about old china as
Cherokee Indians. Let us get all the information
out of this lady we can.*

 And if she tells us the history and value
of every piece, we shall be about as wise as we
were before,' said the other, glancing round
with great curiosity. * But make us see why
a bit of painted earthenware no bigger than
an egg, and as easily broken, is worth a
bundle of bank-notes  why, when set up
under a glass case, people go into raptures
about it. Ah, then, madam, you have taught
us something !'

Be content to learn your ABC to-day,
hoping to be able to read some time or other,'
replied the elder.  I am thankful to know a
teacup when I see it. If Mrs. de Eobert will
inform me whether it is worth six cents or

sixty dollars, was made last century or in
this, comes from Holland or Japan, I am the
wiser. We can't know and admire everything.'


If people never pretended to admire this,
that, and the other, they would save themselves
no end of trouble,' Mrs. de Eobert
replied, delighted at such outspokenness.
Well, you need not admire yonder bowl, but
just look at it. In Queen Anne's time, this
sort of china was all the fashion. I have a
very similar one myself.'

It would look well on our side-table  eh,
nephew?' put in the elder, with much appreciation.
' You must know we are going to
build a big house, my nephew and I, and put in
all the beautiful things we can lay hands on.'

Oh ! collecting, are you ? I suppose these
gimcracks are scarce in your country ? I only
wish I could give you some of mine,' she
went on, good-naturedly. * I have a cup-boastful
that belonged to my late husband,
and I am to give it to the first relation that
turns up.'

Uncle and nephew dared not exchange
glances. The opportunity to speak out was
irresistible ; but they were under a promise of
reticence.

Then I wish I were one of your relations
quietly said the elder Derrober.

I wish you were, I am sure,' was the
answer. ' I shall go farther and fare worse,
I dare say. An out - at - elbow, tatterdemalion,
poverty-stricken set, I am sure, they
will turn out to be, these relations, when they
turn up.'

Well, you would not certainly bestow your
china upon those who had too much already V
Dr. Derrober asked, quietly satiric. ' What
does Mahomet say ?  " Accursed is he who
gives to the rich." '

And a fool is he who gives to the poor,
because people would not be poor if they had
ever had wit enough to get anything, or keep
what they got,' Mrs. de Robert said. ' No ;
I have no faith in poor people myself I
don't mean the folks living in back-slums and
workhouses ; 1 mean the happy-go-lucky sort,

of a better class, who make ducks and drakes
of any money they can Lay hands on.'

Aoain the s transfers winced. The Doctor
added :

Then if you neither bestow on the wise nor
the foolish, your china will go a-begging.'

At that juncture, fortunately for the two
men, Miss Ivory and Mr. Bacchus entered the
room. They had found Sabina and Prue
shady seats in the garden, and were now beating
up recruits for the lawn-tennis tourney
and croquet match.

Oh, dear me !' said the Curate, enchanted
beyond measure with everything. ' Mrs. de
Eobert and our old travelling-companions
from Lodore ! How pleasant to meet one's
friends ! How delightful it would be to have
such a party to go to every day !'

A hint for Mrs. de Robert,' said Eugenia.

Then she wanted to know if the Curate's
old friends would not join in the proposed
games, or, at least, look on. Old china seemed
to lose all interest in the younger Derrober's
eye on a sudden. He took up his hat to

follow his beautiful conductress, evidently
fascinated by the gracious apparition. Miss
Ivory needed no gala dress to heighten her
beauty. Beholders, indeed, who gazed on the
fair picture for the first time, seldom noticed
what she wore. They only felt that the whole
was perfect.

Eugenia certainly dressed with great care,
and was not in the least likely to pay less
attention to her toilette than usual on such an
occasion as this. Let cynics and censors rail
as they may  real amiability, and a sens
of what is due from one human being to another,
make women take pains to look their
best. Uncouth and squalid indeed were the
spectacle of society given up to universal
dowdyism  the feminine element unadorned
or adorning.

'Who is that beautiful girl?' asked the
elder Derrober, almost breathless with admiration.


I am sure I never know if she is pretty or
ugly,' Mrs. de Eobert said, heartily pleased to
have her Eugenio admired all the same. ' You

VOL. I. 15

men are all alike. You seem to think women
were only made to look at. Well, lier name is
Ivory, since you ask it ; she is an orphan,
and lives with me.'

He seemed to ponder. He was wondering,
indeed, whether the pair were related, whether
Miss Ivory were the rich woman's heiress,
and she still remained ' in maiden meditation,
fancy free,' whether  but thought is swift,
and conjecture arrowy in its speed. Ere the
tall, graceful figure, so appropriately and richly
dressed in white lace and crimson roses, was
fairly out of sight, a whole romance had been
built up in Mr. Derrober's brain. For talk
not to us of the romance of youth. 'Tis ever
outrivalled by the romance of age.

We're not related,' said Mrs. de Robert, as
if reading his first thought. ' Her parents
were sworn friends of mine, and she is an
orphan. That is why we live together. iVn
odd taste, you will say, for a girl like that to
live with a crusty old woman like me ! But
Jenny does as she likes ; and if that won't
satisfy people, nothing will. She is as happy

as the day is long, I can tell you. Well, shall
we go downstairs and watch the games, or look
at the pictures V

Mr. Derrober seemed to think watching the
games more seductive just now. At any rate,
he hesitated between the rival attractions.

Mrs. de Robert said :

Suppose we just glance at the pictures, and
then go downstairs. Always see what you can
when it costs you nothing, I say. Ah ! pictures
I've got and to spare, and they are for my
poor husband's relations, too. I know nothing*
about ]pictures except that they cover the walls
and make a house look genteel. And I daresay
you are not much of a judge either V

Just then the Vicar, with a small but
brilliant company, joined them in the corridor.
Mrs. de Robert had not the remotest notion
that he was seeking her, much less in the
interest of more unknown next of kin. Fortunately
for her enjoyment and peace of mind,
Mr. Meridian acted his part perfectly. Never
had his tact served him to better purpose.

152

MRS. DE ROBERT AND HER MURILLO.

R. MERIDIAN possessed the happy
gift of perfect self-reliance. He
felt at home alike with lords
spiritual and temporal, and with ladies, no
matter of what rank. ISTo woman, indeed,
had ever put him out of countenance but Miss
Ivory. In her presence he did occasionally
feel at a loss.

When, therefore, he now came up with an
Earl's daughter on his arm, and a Duke on the
other side, he looked by no means as if just
put into new clothes, not a single part of
which fitted. Smiling, easy, finished, he performed
his duties of host in the best possible

manner, never omitting, never exceeding 
above all, never losing presence of mind in
little things. If society itself is made up of
trifles, all the more necessary is it to understand
the management of trifles.

No one cared less for titles than Mrs. de
Eobert. She was perfectly sincere when she
called the de appended to her name, the flew
de Us and family motto, tomfoolery. The de
and the fleur de lis and the rest of it, in the
case of others, seemed, if not tomfoolery, at
least next door to it. Yet she was gratified
when Mr. Meridian introduced her to Lady
Flora Fairacres, and to the owner of all the
hills and dales for miles round. She was
gratified because, as she expressed it afterwards
to Eugenia, it showed that the Vicar
did not look down upon a plain-spoken, homely
old woman like herself She was gratified,
too, at the opportunity of hearing the great
folks talk about pictures. Whatever else they
might or might not know, great folks who
live in big houses do understand pictures.
She felt half sorry that her Eugenio was not

there to profit by the lesson ; only Iveyy was
so clever, she seemed to arrive at everything
by intuition.

Mrs. de Eobert will see here a Murillo as
fine as her own, for she is the happy possessor
of one,' said Mr. Meridian pleasantly, ashe
marshalled his guests into the picture-gallery.


That mention of the Murillo in Mrs. de
Robert's possession seemed to have an extraordinary
interest for one of the little party.
This was a clergyman : a Church dignitary
one would have taken him for at first, so
quietly imposing his air, so great the respect
paid to him by all. He was an elderly man
of distinguished appearance, from which a
certain portliness did not detract ; as he
glanced hither and thither, shrewd, ingratiating,
even benignant, it was easy to see that,
for some reason or other, he felt the liveliest
curiosity, not only about Mrs. de Eobert,
but her companion, Mr. Derrober.

 Humph !' cried Mrs. de Eobert, in high
good-humour. ' A Murillo that is mine and

not mine. A houseman of Murillo, always
supposing I wanted them, would not do me
much good under those conditions.'

The clergyman's penetrating look and keen,
although discreetly veiled, interest in Mrs. de
Robert and her Murillo was not overlooked
by his host. Having already presented Lady
Flora and her father, Mr. Meridian now added,
in the most natural manner :

His lordship's guest  the Rev. Dr. Robertson.'


There was nothing calculated to arouse
Mrs. de Robert's suspicion here. Robertson
is a name met with frequently. At social
gatherings in country places, strangers and
new-comers are generally presented to the
rest of the company, made up of friends and
neighbours.

The more frequently Mrs. de Robert was
introduced the better she liked it, and the
more civil she found the Vicar. So the little
party passed into the picture-gallery in the
best possible humour ; Mr. Derrober keeping
close to Mr. Meridian and the grand folks,

feeling sure be should now hear something
worth listening to about pictures.

It is inconceivable that Murillo should have
painted half the sweet, bright pictures bearing
his name. Provided the imitation delights as
much as the original, what matter ?

Be this as it may, the Murillo here and the
Murillo belonging to Mrs. de Robert happened
to be very much alike, so said the Vicar,
as all stood lost in admiration before the
precious canvas.

Yes ; the painter without doubt had the
same models before him for both Virgin and
Child. The details, also, are almost identical.
On the whole, lovely as is this group), I prefer
your own,' he said, turning to Mrs. de Robert.
 Happy the unknown possessor into whose
hands it is destined to fall!'

Odd as it may seem, Mrs. de Robert keenly
relished such by-allusions to her next of kin
and the something they would hear of to their
advantage.

She liked, indeed, everything connected with
this strange business but the bestowal of the

gifts when it came to a matter of fact. She
wanted to be rid of the property, she had
spared no pains to find proper claimants ; but
no sooner were they in the field and the
division seemed imminent, than she hated
having anything to give, and, above all, hated
those who had come in search of it.

To-day, however, so she fondly believed,
she could enjoy a talk about her Murillo and
its probable destiny.

'Tis a sweet picture, certainly,' she said,
 and as like this as cherry to cherry. Whoever
gets it will get more than their deserts,
that's quite certain.'

Come, Mr. Meridian,' laughed the Duke.
You and I have both irreproachable characters.
Let us look into our pedigrees. Who
can tell with what result ?'

Alas !' said the Yicar, shaking his head.
I have already thumbed mine in the quest
till it is now wholly illegible. If I can hear
of anything to my advantage I shall have to
be taken on trust, or go to Ulster King at
Arms for a new pedigree.'

You are hardly likely to hear of a Murillo
put in the stranger drily He had been carefully
examining the picture, eye-glass in hand.
I have studied this painter in his native
country ; I think I know his hand, and it is
here. What a dream of beauty ! !Not only
the very place, the atmosphere even, our
very selves seem transformed, beatified, as we
gaze. But '  here he turned round sharply to
Mrs. de Robert  ' the proper place for your
canvas, if indeed a Murillo it be, is a
church!'

Find me a church built by one of my
husband's name, then, and to a church it shall
go, as true as my name is Sarah Roberts,'
Alas the blunt reply. ' I'm not a very good
Churclnvoman, as Mr. Meridian knows ; but I
don't object to churches on principle.'

Take care, take care,' the Vicar said
laughingly. ' What if such a church were
found ? You arc bound to keep your
word.'

I am not uneasy,' Mrs. de Eobert answered,
jauntily confident as before. ' I've

looked into the pedigree myself. My husband's
people are not bad, as folks go. I
could never discover that one of the name bad
been banged for girder. That is something.
But they seem to have been a sad lazy set.
Not one, I am sure, ever scraped up enough
money to build a boathouse, much less a
church.'

Then it behoves some descendant to do it
on their . behalf. Your Murillo is certainly
doomed was the Yicar's playful rejoinder.

He then passed on v/ith his companion"?
making a hasty survey of the room. Without
any apparent design, the stranger fell back
with Mrs. de Robert. The day was warm
and glowing. The bustle and gaiety outside
soon wearied elderly folks. They dropped
into a sofa in front of the Murillo, glad
thus to snatch an interval of rest and coolness.


The best part of an entertainment, Mrs. de
Robert always said, was a talk on a sofa,
always provided that your talker had some
other qualification than a tongue in his head.

You are a great traveller, it seems, sir,'
she began.

I am a missionary,' was the reply, the
speaker's naturally sweet voice and scholarly
turn of phrase making everything he had to
say pleasant to listen to.

Perhaps his manner was a little studied,
his elocution a trifle elaborate. So few of us
take pains to clothe our everyday thoughts
becomingly, we must not carp at those who
err on the side of niceness.

My calling has led me into regions named
and mapped but yesterday. I have encountered
the fierce sun of Central Africa, and the
even more terrible frost of Greenland. The
missionary, as you know, plants his foot
wherever man can subsist. Climate, soil, the
conditions of primitive society, are all one to
him. With his Bible he faces the wilderness,
as the mariner with his compass braves the
deep.'

I hope it all does good, this missionaries
among cannibals and heathens,' said Mrs.
de Robert.

The stranger smiled  a meaning, benignant
smile. Then he pointed to the picture hanging
on the opposite wall.

Our means are often lamentably inadequate
to our ends. We were speaking of this
beautiful Murillo just now. Let me tell you
what miracles I have seen worked by a picture.
You will then understand my remark
about your own.'

Mrs. de Robert listened delightedly ; she
liked listening, except when in the church
pew. It was then as much as ever she
could do to keep silent and awake. She
would sniff at her smelling-bottle one moment,
pop a peppermint into her mouth the next,
surreptitiously munch a gingerbread nut, take
out her pincushion and re-adjust her shawl ;
in fine, have recourse to a dozen expedients in
order to keep her eyes open. A lay sermon
on a sofa was a wholly different matter. The
talker is bound to be agreeable under such
circumstances, whilst a preacher in the pulpit
is bound by no conditions whatever.

Many years ago, then,' began the speaker,

I was despatched on a mission to an island
in the South Pacific. I myself gave a name
to it, which I will point out to you on the
map, if I can find one hereabout. A sweet
place it was, one vast fruit and flower garden,
with groves of orange and palm affording
delicious shelter, and green hills softly sloping
to the sea. No blot marred its outward
beauty. But the human element  the men
and women peopling this earthly paradise 
how can I give you any notion of the darkness
and pollution there ? These poor people
could not be called fiercely, vindictive
wicked. By no means ! They were rather
blind and perverse, and for a good reason.
Xo voice had spoken to them of good, of
Christ.

Well, we missionaries began by putting a
stop to cannibalism and other dire practices.
We built a little church, opened a Sunday-school,
got the islanders together and talked
to them as to children of right and wrong, of
cluny to God and one's neighbours, and they
seemed to understand. Their intelligence.

indeed, surprised us ; but to touch their sensibilities,
to reach thei' hearts, to give them a
soul, ah ! therein lay the difficult, the almost
superhuman part of our task ! Christianity
had instructed, but as yet no more softened
than the alphabet and the first four rules of
arithmetic. We tried what church music and
congregational singing would do. They already y
possessed sweet wild melodies of their own, and
seemed little impressed by the new. We next
essayed story-telling, and told the pathetic
Bible stories over which all of us have wept
as children. Little availed our efforts in this
direction. Thus far, they had only exchanged
heathendom for Christianity because
reason proclaimed the latter a better polity,
a more enlightened citizenship, offering also a
safer, more agreeable mode of existence.

At last, as good luck would have it, a
devoted well-wisher and fervent believer  one
of your own sex, moreover  sent us the gift
of a picture for our little church ; and a very
beautiful picture it was  a Madonna and Child
wonderfully imitated from the divine Raphael.

I cannot describe to you the effect it produced
upon these grown-up children. As
they gazed in awe and rapture upon the Holy
Mother and her Babe, surrounded by angels
and cherubim, they seemed at last to understand
what devotion meant. The mysteries
we had vainly endeavoured to make clear 
the depth of Divine love, the manifestation of
God in human form, the beauty and heavenliness
of purity and sacrifice  now became plain
to them. They all wept, and these tributary
tears baptized them into the true faith.

From that time Christianity became a
living: truth, and was no mere fable smoothest
simple islanders. The picture effected
what all our efforts had hitherto foiled to do.
It worked the change for which we had so
devoutly striven and prayed. It had given
our poor brethren a soul.'

*A sweet pretty story, and very nicely
told,' cried Mrs. de Robert. ' Poor dear
innocents ! I only wish I had a dozen
Murillo to distribute amonix the cannibals
and heathen folks, I'm sure.'

Count yourself happy in the possession of
one,' was the quiet reply. ' Only be sure that
it falls into the right hands. And now, what
say you to a turn round the picture-gallery,
then a look at the tennis-players ?'

Mrs. de Robert expressed herself ready for
anything. She was in the best possible
humour.

VOL. I. 16

THE END OF THE GALA.

J HE brilliant entertainment was over,
and everybody who ought to have
gone home had gone home but Mr.
Bacchus. The Curate was afflicted with an
amiable weakness that often brings men into
direr scrapes than many an abominable vice.
He was never ready to go home. He had
never had enough of anything. Seeing that
such reluctance to quit our society is the
greatest possible compliment anybody can
pay us, we ought to feel gratified, or at least
treat the offender gently ; but no, nothing
irritates, nothing exasperates us like the guest
who is never ready to go home.

In this particular instance, the Curate's
perversity was a real mortification to his host.
Mr. Meridian always planned everything beforehand.
In order to compensate himself for
the bustle and fatigue of the day, he had now
arranged an elegant little supper for Mrs. de
Robert, Miss Ivory, and himself. The ladies
were to drop him afterwards at the Vicarage
on their way to Hopedale.

Now, on the face of it, there was an especial
intimacy implied in such an arrangement.
The party had been given ostensibly to all
the world, but in reality to Mrs. de Robert
and the beautiful Eugenia. It was hard indeed,
after parcelling out the entire afternoon
among a hundred and odd guests to whom
he was comparatively indifferent, that the
Vicar could not have the only one he really
cared about for half an hour to himself True,
there was the presence of a third person;
nothing like a tete-astute could be hoped for.
Yet he should sit opposite Eugenia. She
would have a dozen sprightly things to say
about his entertainment. The banquet of

16-2

three could but be very genial and compensatory.


Of course Mr. Bacchus had not the least
intention of doing an impolite, much less an
indelicate thing. His own guests, Sabina and
True, as the night was fresh, had accepted
the seats offered them in a neighbour's close
carriage. He was free, therefore, to stay as
long as he pleased \ anyhow, in this light he
regarded the situation. The invitation to
Marsden Tower was not limited. There he was,
and there he meant to stay. Where could hebe
better off ?

With the happy unconsciousness of the
born blunderer, he no sooner caught sight
of a round table daintily spread in the ,
of lamps lighted, and chairs cosily
drawn round, than he countermanded his
pony-carriage.

Oh dear !' he exclaimed, rubbing his
hands. * What a pleasant surprise ! Who
would have dreamed of a third collation !
I am sure I was never at such a charming
party in my life.'

Mrs. de Robert and Eugenia, of course,
could say nothing. Mr. Meridian gave a
frigid order to the footman in attendance :

Be so good as to place a fourth cover,' he
said, in a perfectly audible undertone. Still
Mr. Bacchus remained deaf and blind to the
true state of affairs.

' It is very hospitable of you to treat your
friends thus, I am sure,' Mr. Bacchus blundered
on.  Especially those in my own
position, who can make no return except by
enjoying themselves.'

A very handsome return, I call that,' Miss
Ivory said pleasantly. She was anxious to
smooth matters without overtly apologizing
for the Curate's breach of good manners.

Mr. Meridian still remained iciness itself.
He Alas very much ruffled. Nothing discomposes
some men so much as an impertinence ;
at the same time he did not intend to exhibit
his ill-humour before his other guests.

Have the goodness to carve that chicken,
Bacchus,' he said in the same tones; then,
whilst helping the mayonnaise before him, he

chatted With Mrs. de Robert. To Eugenia he
left the task of being' civil to the offending
Curate.

In his present mind the Aicar could talk
commonplaces to anyone chancing to sit near
him; he could not sufficiently recover himself
so as to enjoy a little persiflage with Miss Ivory.

And the more Mr. Bacchus talked to
her, the more excited and animated he became.
The whole affair, a personal triumph as he
regarded it, had been too much for him. He
had distinguished himself in the tennis-court,
been graciously noticed by the grand folk present
 the Dean of Appleford, even the Duke,
shaking hands with him ; Lady Flora accept-ins:
his escort to the refreshment-booth; the
rich, handsome, and fashionable Mrs. Charleston
challenging him at tennis. And then  alas !
in dealing with frail mortals like ourselves, weare
bound to take material as well as moral
causes into account  the unaccustomed cheer
had something to do with his exhilaration.

Ices, Italian creams, strawberries big as
codlino:s, and other re<jcales out of the common

Away have an intoxicating effect upon some
temperaments. The Curate was a moderate
man. But, as he afterwards expressed it, this
sort of thing was too much for him. That
was the truth of the matter.

The supper proved no failure, then, to
Mr. Bacchus, although in the opinion of the
rest it dragged heavily. Finally Mrs. de
Robert drowned, even Eugenia's spirits flagged,
whilst the Vicar's share in the conversation
became more and more artificial. Only the
exuberant Mr. Bacchus rattled on with* as
much animation as if the delightful day had
only just begun.

Mr. Meridian glanced impatiently at his
beautiful vis-a-vis, for Miss Ivory had amiably
consented to preside at his table. Was it
possible that she could endure this scatterbrained
gabble, this unmitigated tittle-tattle
without losing patience? his face asked. But
Eugenia showed nothing like disapproval.
She merely concealed a little yawn with her
fair hand, and tried not to look tired out.
She was ever ready to make excuses for tha

Curate. His weaknesses only made her smile.
The man himself was sterling, she could overlook
foibles distractingly odious in the eyes of
his own sex. Distractingly odious he certainly
was in the eyes of Mr. Meridian just
then.

Insufferable puppy ! egregious income
!' he thought, as he watched and listened.
Ever an inspiring instigator of men, he was
ready to launch out in scathing sarcasms, and
thus bring Mr. Bacchus to his senses. But
he had no intention of further enlisting
Eugenia's sympathies on his behalf. The
Curate should never become a make-bate between
himself and Miss Ivory. No matter,
moreover, how wrathful the Vicar might be,
he remained master of himself, and incapable
of doing an ill-mannered thing. Even when
the ladies had gone upstairs to put on their
bonnets, he reined in his irritation. The rebuke
must be administered another day. He
could not bring the Curate to his senses whilst
yet his guest.

But the misguided Mr. Bacchus seemed

bent upon bringing about his own discomfiture.
Integer had any man a more propitious
opportunity of holding his tongue. To hold
one's tongue, however, is more difficult in
some cases than the achievement of Socratic
utterances. Mr. Bacchus could as soon have
talked like Sydney Smith himself as keep
*silence when the spirit moved him to speak.

I am sure we are all over head and ears
indebted to you,' he began, no more seeing
the Vicar's freezing look than if he were mole-blind.
' Such a charming; entertainment from
beginning to end, to be sure. But I hope,'
he said, with a sudden look of appeal  ' I
hope I have done my little part ?'

Had the Yicar been the soul of good-nature,
or felt more conscious of weakness
himself, he would simply have pooh-poohed his
incautious guest and dismissed him with amiable
contempt. But not only the Curate's
unconcern exasperated beyond endurance, his
self-complacence filled up the measure of the
other's disgust. Mr. Bacchus, accustomed to
such reserve, rattled on :

This charming banquet, too, the finishing
stroke  the acme of the clay's pleasure ! How
thoughtful of you to arrange it ! You all
seemed a trifle tired, so I talked not only for
myself, but for the rest. How fortunate that
some people  myself, for instance  never do
get tired !'

Really, Bacchus ' began Mr. Meridian

seriously.

Even that recommending * Really, Bacchus,'
did not bring the poor Curate to his
senses. He must blunder on :

The acme, did I call your little supper 
the acme ? No ; that is yet to come  for you,
I mean.'

I have not the remotest conception of
what you allude to,' the Vicar said, looking
dao:ers.

Oh, haven't you !' laughed the reckless
Mr. Bacchus. He felt somehow at an advantage
over the Vicar just then, in so far as
Miss Ivory's favours were concerned. She
had played lawn-tennis with him  and an
admirable player he certainly was ; it was his

sole accomplishment. She had been at pans
to show all the world that he was her friend.
Eugenia's real motives Mr. Bacchus did not
divine. She was sorry for him. He was so
often flouted, she had determined that he
should not be flouted that day.

'Oh, haven't you!' laughed the reckless
Curate. 'Not the remotest conception, do
you mean to say that? And you are going
to escort Miss Ivory to Hopedale ? I have
the greatest mind in the world to ask yoi\ tolet
me do it instead.'

I have the greatest mind in the world to
pitch you out of the window,' was the Vicar's
reply, his patience fairly exhausted.

He had hesitated before at the unpleasant
task of rebuking the Curate then. He would
infinitely have preferred to put off the disagreeable
duty till tomorrow. But the man's
impertinence, he now said to himself, was past
all bearing. He must be summarily taught to
conduct himself, if not in a dignified manner,
at least with common propriety.

And underlings all other feelings was the

]passion of jealousy. Mr. Meridian would
have scoffed at such an imputation if put
into words. That he should feel jealous of a
poor scatterbrain like Bacchus, forsooth ! That
he should deem any woman worthy to be his
wife who should smile on him I The idea
was preposterous. Yet preposterous though
it might be, and indefinite enough as it
certainly was, it existed. Or perhaps it only
now took shape. But for the image of the
beautiful Miss Ivory he would never have
dreamed of pitching the Curate out of the
window. Those stinging words revealed the
truth, and something more than the truth, to
his rival. For the first time Mr. Bacchus
realized not only how it stood with the Vicar,
but how it stood with himself. He loved
Eugenia better than anything in the wide
Avorld, and so, after his own and different
fashion, did Mr. Meridian. And because they
so loved her, they were brought to hate each
other. Hatred, indeed, it was. One scathing
Avoid, like a lightning-flash, had revealed the
depth of darkness beneath. The Vicar stood

calm, but white with passion. The Curate
shook in every limb.

Pitch me out of the window if you dare !
I have as good a right to mention Miss
Ivory's name as yourself, and perhaps better !'
he said, making futile efforts to control himself,
with the utmost difficulty all the while
keeping his hands off his rival.

Arrogate what right you please to yourself,
but be so good as to leave mine alone.
Don't you know that you are behaving like a
madman or a fool ?' was the Yicar's scornful
reply.

He was still entire master of himself He
knew exactly how far he should permit himself
to go. But he no longer felt disposed to
exercise self-restraint on the Curate's behalf.
He was not going to make a blunder. Let
the Curate's blunders be on his own head !

Not the best man who lives shall call me
fool!' Mr. Bacchus cried, exasperated beyond
measure, his large, loosely-made figure swaying
backwards and forwards in a threatening
attitude. 'Do you hear?' he reiterated. 'You

are somebody, and I am nobody ; but I won't
snifer you to call me a fool for all that.'

Mr. Meridian stood stock-still. The other's
menaces only caused him to smile, and that
smile galled the unhappy Curate more than a
blow would have done.

Oh ! you won't ?' the Vicar said coolly.
 Then the only thing for you to do is to pitch
me out of the window.'

They had quitted the supper-table on the
departure of the ladies, for the sake of coolness
passing into the bay-window at the
farther end. The pleasant corner room in
which they had just supped, duplicate of the
china cupboard, was on the ground floor so
called, but raised a considerable height above
the terrace over which it projected. A fall
from such a window would not inflict deadly
injury on a man, perhaps would not break a
limb, but it might have very disagreeable
results for all that. The Yicar, too, was spare
and slight, and had given up athletics since
leaving Cambridge. The Curate, of gigantic
stature, broad-shouldered, accustomed to all

kinds of bodily fatigue, in so far as physical
strength was concerned, might be called a
match for two Mr. Meridians.

You don't mean to apologize!' exclaimed
the exasperated Curate.

Apologize  apologize !' laughed the Vicar.

Those quietly uttered words, so full of
scorn and irony, achieved the other's destruction.
Why were they uttered? Why did not
Mr. Meridian, master of himself to the last,
soften matters before it was too late? A conciliatory
gesture, a syllable of excuse, and his
rival would have been conquered. But no,
that allusion to Miss Ivory was more than the
Vicar could ever forgive. The Christian, the
priest, the gentleman, were dead within him
only the jealous lover remained. With
cynical collectedness he let the other's mad
passion have its 'ay.

For, no longer possessing a particle of self-control,
infuriated by what he took to be a
dastardly insult, actuated by the same frenzied-jealousy,
the Curate now sprang upon his
rival. And still Mi*. Meridian remained rigid,

nor moved a step. He would resort to no
unseemly method of self-defence ; no undignified
scuffle should save his skin. The aggression,
the assault, the blackguardism  thus
strongly did the Yicar put it to himself 
should all be on the side of his adversary.

Seizing Mr. Meridian with iron grip, his
face dark with evil purpose, his gaunt form
the very impersonation of vindictive furs', the
Curate seemed on the point of wreaking
deadly vengeance, when a white figure appeared
in the doorway.

It was Miss Ivory, and had it been an
apparition of some unearthly messenger, some
angel bidden to whisper peace, the effect could
not have been more magical.

In a moment, in a second, Mr. Bacchus was
himself Covered with shame, horror, and contrition,
he loosed his hold, fell back like one
to whom not only the voice of conscience but
of Heaven has spoken, and hid his face in his
trembling hands.

Oh my God 1* he murmured ; ' what have I
done?  what have I done:'

BETWEEN TWO Fires.

HAT a charming party!' said Mrs.
de Robert next day, in happy
ignorance of its tragic conclusion.
And delightful people are those friends of
the Vicar, to be sure ! That nice old
missionary  I only wish I could give him my
Murilly for his heathens  and those pleasant
Americans! Their mouths are watering for
old china and anything in the curiosity way,
you can see that. I should like to give
them all my knickknacks, and have done with
it.'

Miss Ivory smiled at Mrs. de Robert's
perversity. She was far from being in a

VOL. I. 17

playful humour. Her own heart was heavy
enough ; not for worlds, however, would she
have betrayed her anxieties to her old friend.

And the poor ladies, are they to have
nothing  nothing V she asked reproachfully.

They don't interest me,' was the curt
reply. ' I can't help it, Iveyy ; they don't
interest me in the least bit.'

But if people do not happen to interest
us, they are always interesting to themselves,'
Miss Ivory answered. ' One human being is
of precisely as much consequence as another
in his own estimation, I mean.'

There is something in that, Eugenio,' Mrs.
de Robert said, half ashamed of her little
speech. * And if only handsome folks and
witty folks and taking folks got their deserts,
'twould be a plaguy bad world.'

The all-important fact is the having been
born, the being somebody at all, it seems tome,'
Miss Ivory made reply.  Everything
else is an accessory.'

So I ought to give some of my poor
husband's money to the old ladie, ought I V

Mrs. de Robert persisted in calling the pair
thus, although Prudence Perfect was only
middle-aged, and Sabina Ricketts could hardly
be said to be old.

The genteel young man you hope to find
may not perhaps have better claims,' Eugenia
said.

 Ah, my genteel young man  he does not
turn up ! He is a myth, I fancy. I wouldn't
mind about his age, if he were genteel  something
like the younger of those Americans,
now. Nicer men can't be  so vastly entertaining,
so good-looking, so polite ; and how
kind they were to an old woman like myself !
But that is what I have always heard.
Americans are kind to women ; and such
indulgent husbands !'

Eugenia smiled, then arched her brows, and
seemed on the point of speaking. Then she
checked herself with a smile.

To come back to the property,' the elder
lady went on. 'As you say, these old ladies
Selina Beckett and Patience Purfle  have
the de Eobert blood in their veins. And, true

172

enough, too, one human being, all things taken
together, is as good as another.'

In one sense, certainly,' Eugenia said.
One has as much right to fair dealing as
another.'

Ah ! fairness  that is the point. Will
Mr. Meridian be fair, think you ?  for I must
leave the brunt of the business to him. My
poor husband had such faith in the clergy.
The clergy are so respectable," he was always
saying ; " get some clergyman to be your
adviser." I'm not over head and ears in love
with them myself. The Yicar is a man of
principle, and genteel, if anybody ever was ;
but he has his likes and dislikes. If he takes
a fancy to any one of these good people, the
rest will have to go  that is my notion.'

'He cannot give away what is not his own,'
Eugenia said.

But when he has taken so much trouble
about the business, I must leave him pretty
much to do as he likes. I am sure I wish I
had never lifted a finger  left the property to
be divided when I am comfortably in my

grave, I mean,' Mrs. de Robert said, with a
meaning look.

'Too late to do that now.' Eugenia said,
Mr. Meridian would never forgive you.'

Oh ! a snap of the fingers for his forgiveness
! Much I should trouble myself about
that,' said Mrs. de Eobert, evidently hankering
after a change of plan. * So you think I
had better leave the Vicar to do as he
likes with poor dear Affie's property, do
you V

I think it just as well to do a thing when
we have decided to do it, unless it is the
jumping from the top of the Monument,'
Eugenia said. ' Once a thing is done it is off
our minds, and clears the way for something
else.'

I want this business off my mind, sure
enough,' Mrs. de Robert said. ' A whole year
I have thought and talked of nothing else, and
what good has come of it all ? None that I
can see.'

But no harm, anyhow ' Eugenia said,

then paused.

The scene of the night before came back
vividly. Had not that painful incident arisen
from Mrs. de Eobert's ' next of kin,' and
the something they were to hear of to their
advantage ? She was still in the dark as to the
immediate cause of the fracas. Mr. Meridian,
whilst handing her to the carriage, had merely
said in an undertone :

Your friend must have been drinking.'

The sarcastic turn of the speech seemed to
refer to Eugenia former defence of the
Curate. Suspicions of the true state of things
Hashed across her mind ; yet how could her
own name have been called into question ?
During the homeward drive nothing transpired
to enlighten her. Mr. Meridian was
silent ; Mrs. de Eobert drowsed ; the trio
hardly interchanged a dozen words.

She was soon to hear the truth. In the
hottest part of the day, looking the very
image of heat, fatigue, and dejection, Mr.
Bacchus appeared at the garden-gate. He
could never do things by halves. If miserable,
he must be as miserable as it was

possible for any human being to feel, plunged
into the deepest depths of depression and
despair ; if buoyant, lifted to the topmost
heights of airiness and exhilaration. It was
impossible to imagine a more woebegone figure
than that now presented by the poor Curate.

He had evidently slept little during the
night, and not broken his fast in the morning.
His appearance was neglected, his hair and
beard dishevelled, and his cheeks were more
sallow than ever.

I am not fit to make my appearance,' he
began, as Eugenia invited him to an arbour at
the farther end of the garden, ' I know ; but
I couldn't help coming. I've been roaming
about the country like a maniac, or an escaped
murderer, since five o'clock this morning.'

What good could that do T Eugenia said
kindly, but remonstrant.

No good in the world, of course ; but
when a man is desperate, he does not calculate
his actions : he just plunges from one piece of
insanity to another, as I am doing now.'

'After all,' Eugenia said, ' ]mr. Meridian is

bound to accept your apology. Go to him,
make your excuses, and all will be well.'

The Curate shook his head, and went on
more excitedly than ever :

He won't even see me. There is more in
that than meets the eye. Mr. Meridian is as
good as others  I have not a word to say
against him ; but when jealousy seizes hold of
a man he will stop at nothing. Mark my
word, the Vicar is bent upon ruining me.'

Nonsense !' Eugenia said soothingly. ' Why
should he ruin you ? But come indoors. I
will order some breakfast for you. You must
want it, I am sure, if you have been running
about the country, as you say, like a maniac,
since five o'clock this morning.'

I couldn't eat a morsel to save my life,'
replied the poor Curate, wiping his damp
forehead ; ' I couldn't, indeed. And I couldn't
face Mrs. de Eobert either. I am only half a
man in these matters. I can't brazen things
out like some.'

Miss Ivory was unable to resist a smile at
the inconsequence of this grown-up child, and,

leaving him for a moment, gave a stealthy
order for tea. Tea would restore him perhaps
to calmness, and, at any rate, have a good
effect upon his nervous system.

She then re seated herself, the pair presenting
the strangest contrast as they thus confabulated
in the arbour. Mr. Bacchus boiled,
dusty, agitated ; Eugenia the very picture of
freshness, coolness, and repose. She wore a
neat print morning-dress, white, with tiny
spots of colour in it, and even thus simply
dressed, without a single adornment, looked a
sumptuous woman. She was ever that.

Not a word was said till the little tea-tray
appeared. Eugenia met the servant half-way,
and with her own hands deposited it on the
rustic table in the arbour.

Ah, yes ! I am raging with thirst. I
could drink something,' the Curate said, looking
ready to cry. ' How kind you always are
to me  too kind by far ! Who else would
have thought of tea V

She poured him out a cup  another  yet a
third, and he drank greedily. Then he began

to revive, to grow more coherent  in colloquial
phrase, to pull himself together.

Now,' she said, in a tone of gentle command,
much as if he were indeed a child 
Now you must really tell me all about this
sad business. How came you and Mr.
Meridian to quarrel at all, and at such a
time ? The thing seems quite past comprehension.'


You may well say so,' began Mr. Bacchus,
in a dolorous tone. ' But nothing is past
comprehension where some men are concerned.'
He looked at her with strange wistfulness, and
added,  and some women, you know. I must
tell you the truth. We were almost ready to
murder each other about you.'

Miss Ivory blushed, in spite of her surmises
somewhat taken aback by this brusque
confession.

*And of course we might just as well
murder each other for aught you care. Pray
don't misunderstand me  you must know
what I mean  for aught you care after a certain
fashion ; that is the truth of it, that is

what I intended to say. You can't help it,
and I can't help it. It is a terrible business
the poor Curate got out.

Eugenia now began to realize how matters
stood. A woman sees through brick walls under
some circumstances ; in this case, feminine tact
and insight supplied the details left out of the
story.

When a man really falls in love with a
woman who has nothing to say to him, all is
up with that man,' Mr. Bacchus went on. /I
know well enough I might as well hope to get
to the moon as to marry you ; and I am sure,
though it is no business of mine, Mr. Meridian
has no more chance of fretting; to the moon
either. That does not signify ; we are both
ready to do for each other like the veriest cutthroats
ever hanged for murder. Ask him if
it isn't true !'

'' But you are neither of you cut throats ;
and the Vicar ought, and must, accept your
apology. He cannot do otherwise,' said
Eugenia, beginning to feel very uneasy.

" Ought " and " must " are not words in his

dictionary,' the Curate went on ; 'and I am
bound to say it  although he exasperated me
beyond human endurance  I had no right to
transgress the law. You saw what happened ;
and what might have happened, had you not
appeared exactly in the nick of time, God in
heaven only knows !'

With every word from the Curate's lips
Eugenia grew more anxious. She was at last
realizing his true position. She recalled the
scene  the Vicar, passive in the clutches of
his infuriated adversary ; the Curate's menacing
attitude. There could be no doubt of one
thing. Mr. Bacchus was prone to exaggerate,
but he had clearly stated the case so far. He
was a transgressor of the law.

I am naturally a well-meaning man,' he
went on.  I can't for the life of me kill even
a rat ; it goes so against the grain. But 1
was on the point of pitching the Vicar out of
the window then, and the consequences might
have been awful. As it is, they are bad
enough. I shall be had up for assault, like
some public-house brawler. I shall be suspended,

perhaps even unfrocked, and my poor
children left without a morsel of bread to put
into their mouths. Why are you so distracting
?' he said, in quite a different voice, turning
upon her sharply. ' What is the use of
the Ten Commandments, and the truth revealed
in Scripture, and the Holy Sacraments,
when a woman can turn a pair of well-meaning
men  we are both that, I am sure  into
demons ? These things shake my faith to its
Avery foundations  are enough to turn me into
an unbeliever, which sometimes  just now, for
instance  I almost feel I am.'

The latter part of the speech was uttered
with so much pathos and sincerity, that
Eugenia had some difficulty in restraining her
tears. She controlled herself, however ; and,
avoiding personalities, tried to inspirit poor
Mr. Bacchus, and to lift him into a wholesome
atmosphere.

Fortunately she said,  there are some
things we cannot help believing in  duty, for
one

Ah ! duty ; tell me my duty, and I'll set

about it this very moment was the eager
answer. * I feel my moral sense dead within
me. I don't believe there is a crime I could
not commit at this moment for your sake.'

Nor a virtuous deed either, I hope,'
Eugenia replied, trying to smile away his
desperation. ' Come into the parlour then,
and write a nice little note of excuse to Mr.
Meridian.'

He won't read it,' was the sulky answers

I will undertake that he shall. You have
only to write the letter, and hand it over tome.'


The Curate still hesitated.
You own yourself the aggressor V she
added.

Oh ives ! there is no doubt of that ; and
aggressive I feel still. I wish duels were
permitted.'

But as they are not, and as people are not
permitted to throw each other out of windows
either, your only course is to write the letter,'
was the. smilingly reproachful reply ; * so let us
o;o indoors, and o;et the business over at once.'

Apologies should be taken piping hot the
Curate replied. * I was at the Vicar's doors
this morning as soon as I could decently
present myself. He was at home  I saw him
eating muffins in dressing-gown and slippers
but he refused me an interview ; and I
know what that means.'

Again she soothed and persuaded, and the
letter was written at last. Then, having induced
her visitor to eat something, she dismissed
him, and set out for the Vicarage. ,

ICEBERG AFTER VOLCANO.

Miss lYOEY felt tlmt the most difficult
part of her task was yet to
come. Mr. Bacchus ever proved
limber as a withy in her hands; without
giving him a word of encouragement she could
sway him to her will. But Mr. Meridian had
no such pliancy in his disposition. He could
bend easily enough whilst others did exactly
as he pleased. There his powers of concession
ended. Cross his will, act in a diametrically
opposite direction to himself, and as well try
to make two parallel lines meet as bring the
Vicar of Hopedale to a compromise.
Moreover, she saw clearly enough that the

part of mediatrix ill became her here. AVhat
right had she to ask favours of a lover on
whom she never meant to bestow any? Not
the Vicar only, but the most amiable suitor
in the world would justifiably resent such
interference.

Still she determined to try what she could
do on Mr. Bacchus's behalf. He was so helpless,
so unguarded, so mettlesome, that she
inwardly rejoiced in his failure to secure an
interview. He would only have made matters
ten times worse. jSTo, she would endeavour to
obtain something in the shape of a guarantee
from Mr. Meridian, who, having once given his
word, could be relied on to keep it, and who at
all times had his impulses well under control.

By the time Miss Ivory appeared at the
Vicarage gate, he was dressed for the day, and
had already got through a considerable amount
of the morning's business. Of concentrated
mental habits, and very methodical always,
he could achieve in a few hours as much
letter writing and composition as would occupy
many others a week.

VOL. I. 18

When his visitor was announced, he had
no excuse, if he needed any, for sending her
away.

A really beautiful woman looks her best in
the morning, and there was an indescribable
charm, the charm of contrast, about Eugenia's
appearance at such times.

The spotless cotton gown, almost as simple
as a housemaid's; the absence of anything in
the shape of ornament, except a fresh flower
just plucked from the garden; the rosy glow
imparted by a morning walk  are all circumstances
that heighten beauty far more than the
glare of alights, or the sparkle of diamonds
or millinery, however bewitching.

Mr. Meridian looked once, twice, thrice at
his intruder; but she seemed in no degree to
soften him, rather the reverse.

As he handed her a chair his manner was
cold to iciness ; he divined her errand before
she could so much as open her lips.

I must thank you for so kindly exerting
yourself on my behalf yesterday,' he began, intones
intended to be courteous. ' I feel sure

that the success of the affair, if success it can
be called, is in a great measure owing to
you.'

Eugenia sat with closed lips ; she was hardly
prepared to find the Yicar in this mood. She
did not feel in the least nervous, only doubtful
as to the result of her errand.

It is to be regretted,' he went on, still cold
and reserved, * that so untoward an occurrence
should have been the finale. You witnessed
the scene ; you saw who was the aggressor.'


Mr. Bacchus is full of remorse. He called
upon you this morning in order to apologize
she said. Then, producing the Curate's missive,
she added : ' He has now written to you,
since you would not see him.'

Mr. Meridian took the letter  that he could
hardly help doing  but without any intention
of breaking the seal. His first impulse was to
toss it into the waste-paper basket. Restrained
by her presence,'he carelessly placed it in a
pigeon-hole of his writing-table. Then ensued
an awkward pause.

18-2

She glanced at the Vicar; he in his turn
eyed her penetratingly. Neither seemed inclined
to speak.

At last, anxious to get her errand over, she
said :

Will you not accept Mr. Bacchus's apology?
He has said all that anyone can say
by way of reparation.'

Once more Mr. Meridian looked at her
keenly. When he spoke, his voice was unsympathetic
to hardness.

Let me put a question to you,' he began ;
and the way in which you answer it, will
determine the propriety of your interference.
I can understand your initiative on behalf of
Mr. Bacchus perfectly well. He is a very
poor creature, unable to get himself out of
scrapes, though marvellously dexterous in
a'cttino; into them. You come to me, therefore,
because you know well enough he is
not to be trusted to plead for himself But
what right have you to take such an initiative?'


Eugenia crimsoned, knowing: well enou<2:li

what was to follow. By dint of womanly
stratagem she had hitherto contrived to stave
off a declaration from the Vicar. Do what
she Avould, she could not hinder him from
speaking out now.

*Had you behaved and felt differently
hitherto,' he went on, ' I could understand
your present attitude towards myself But
it is inconceivable that you should undertake
such an office and deliberately beg favours of
a man you have delighted to checkmate and
thwart upon every occasion. Were I addressing
one of my own sex, I should use less
measured language, I assure you.'

She sat blushing like a culprit. Eloquently
as she could have pleaded for Mr. Bacchus,
she had not a word to say on her own
behalf

He went on :

And what was the tremendous obligation
I wished to lay myself under to you, the
favour I had to ask ? Only the right of
speaking out. You know it as well as I do.
Not once, not twice, but twenty times, I have

been on the point of speaking, and you have
prevented me  prohibited were the better
word. I am, therefore, prohibited from opening
my lips, whilst you permit yourself to
say what you please. And what you please
to say now amounts to this, that you cannot
trust my judgment in the management of my
own affairs

How could she frame an answer ? Mr.
Meridian was calmness itself. He was every
bit as cool and collected as when preaching a
sermon. But she understood the depth of
feeling and passion not allowed to come to
the surface. His dark brow, his scathing
speech, revealed all.

Are you a coquette ?' he said, looking her
straight in the face. ' Does it gratify you to
play the mere woman's game, as if youth,
adulation, and trifling; were to last through
life, and nothing lay beyond ? Or have you
indeed a heart and conscience, and know not
as yet to what uses to put them ?'

I have tried to act conscientiously,' Miss
Ivory replied. ' How could I wish you to

speak out, having no satisfactory answer to
give ? Inclinations are not to be forced.
And we were neighbours. It is not my
fault that we are thrown perpetually together.'


She spoke proudly, though feeling inwardly
humbled and meek. With regard to her interference
now, Mr. Meridian had good cause
to complain. She felt the justice of his reproaches
so far. In all other respects her
conscience was clear. Her behaviour to him
had never been that of a coquette. He was
blaming her for what she could not help  her
indifference to himself.

Mr. Meridian grew sterner and sterner.
She knew enough of his character to understand
what such severity meant. The tenderness
of a woman, possessed by some men,
he lacked altogether. Keen susceptibilities
were not his, nor softness and a certain sympathetic
quality that often compensate for
glaring defects. But he was manly, upright,
and sincere, incapable alike of vacillation or
sentimentality. Where he liked, he liked

indeed ; and Adhere he hated, he hated with a
will. A man may be amiable or the reverse ;
an honest, single-minded passion commands
esteem always. Seeing how he suffered on
her account, although his manner of showing
it was far from engaging, Eugenia could
but feel overcome with sorrow and humiliation.


Is this all you have to sa' to me V he
asked, outwardly calm, though she could see
that he Alas shaken with emotion.

What would you have me say ?' Eugenia
replied, feeling ready to burst into tears.

You are angry with me for being myself.
We cannot become what others would have
us against our will.'

The Vicar smiled disdainfully.

Indignant were the better word,' he said.

Would not any other man be indignant at
such treatment ? You secret that we are
even neighbours. You would prefer, I suppose,
not to see me at all. Yet, as if it were
the most natural thing in the world  as if,
at least, we were sworn friends, if nothing

more  you come to me on such an errand as
this ?'

As he spoke he took the Curate's letter
from the pigeon-hole, and twirled it in his
fingers.

To intercede on behalf of a cowardly
aggressor, to take the right of private judgment
out of my own hands, to prevent the
just castigation of an offence not only against
the law, but against the rudimentary usages
of civilized society ! You must see it. Your
attitude should be that of an entire stranger
in this matter. You wrong yourself more
than me in acting otherwise.'

Did he wish to humble his beautiful penitent
still further, to wring from her an entreaty
for pardon, to see her weeping at his
knees? He certainly acted as if such was
his intention.

She sat pale, silent, resistless, unable to
say a word more on her own behalf All
was plain to her now. Between these two
men she was a firebrand, no messenger of
peace.

He went on, still holding the Curate's unopened
letter between contemptuous finger
and thumb:

I have now said what I had to say about
myself. Just a word about this protege of
yours. You cannot surely condone such an
outrage as he was guilty of last night ? and
entirely without provocation on my part. I
did not begin the quarrel; I was determined
not to quarrel. You saw what occurred.
He was behaving like a madman, and all
about what ? The seat you kindly offered mein
your close carriage for the drive home to
Hopedale.'

Putting down the letter, and rising from his
seat with a gesture of indescribable disgust
and impatience, he went on :

Were you not a woman, influenced in all
things by your feelings, you must see that,
putting aside the right and the wrong of the
matter, a just, a summary punishment would
be the greatest possible kindness to Mr.
Bacchus himself. He is inflated with vanity
and self-importance. He will be sure to rush

headlong to ruin unless warned in time. I
know well enough the arguments on your
lips : the disgrace of a conviction for assault;
the effect on his future career ; the forlorn
condition of his children, and so forth, and so
forth. What have such questions to do with
the criminal intent, the letting loose of foul
unbridled passions? Society would be in a
nice state, forsooth, if such madcaps were
allowed to behave as they please. However,
have it all your own way. You acknowledge
that whilst ready to accord nothing, you are
perfectly willing to receive to any extent  a
sample of woman's generosity. So take my
acceptance of the Curate's apology, and much
good may it do him !'

Thus saying he stooped down, and, using
the gold pencil-case attached to his chain,
scribbled outside the still unsealed envelope 
Satisfied A. 71/.' Then he handed it to
Eugenia, who rose dumfounded, no longer
able to control her tears. The revulsion of
feelings was too treat. A minute before and
nothing seemed to her more certain than the

failure of her errand, and the Curate's disgrace.
Slice had the picture before her eyes 
his agonized, fruitless remorse ; the consternation
reigning in his little home ; the humiliation
of a judicial sentence, however lenient ;
the lifelong stigma, the poverty, the cares
thereby incurred. And now all danger was
averted  he was safe, he was free.

You are very generous,' was all she could
stammer forth.

Mr. Meridian's triumph was complete. Beneath
that icy exterior i-iowed something; like
exultation. He had more than humbled this
exquisite, hitherto unreachable Eugenia. Fora
time, at least, she would surely be crushed,
weighed down by a sense of deepest obligation.
Those tears and timid, stammering: words
repaid him for past unkindness and neglect.
She was now so far his debtor that he could
ask of her any favour he pleased. Without a
Avoid more but of formal adieu, they parted.

THE WOLVES IN SHEEP's CLOTHING.

 HE little scene in the Vicar's study
remained a secret. Neither Eugenia
nor her haughty lover breathed a
word of what had taken place. When they
met it was apparently on the same terms as
before, and circumstances now compelled them
to meet pretty often.

Whilst, however, driven, out of self-defence,
to take refuge in the persiflage and banter of
former days, Eugenia could not for a moment
forget their altered position. She drew back
startled, almost panic-stricken, as she thought
of it ; not the Yicar s concession, but his
manner of conceding alarmed her. He was

by no means given to personal vanity, much
less to self-laudation ; yet he had put the
truth in a way that was very humiliating
and he had put it unanswerably. He was in
the right, as, it seemed, he always was. ' Vh}'
cannot we love people who are always in the
right ?' mused poor Miss Ivory.

Then she set to work and racked her brain
to find out why she could not love Mr.
Meridian. He was high-principled, agreeable,
handsome  so, at least, folks said  as for
herself, she never thought of his looks. He
was universally well thought of and well
spoken of, sure to rise in his profession, sure
to hold a very different and much higher
position ere long. Lastly, he was devoted
to only one Avoman  that one, herself. Why
could she not like him well enough to marry
him ? Why was the thought of love-making
on his part so unwelcome, even unbearable to
her ?

These questions she asked herself again and
again without being able to find any satisfactory
reply, and all the Awhile feeling sorry

that it should be so. The Vicar's admiration
had long been clear. Not till that last interview
had he ever disclosed real depth of feeling,
and the thought of his unhappiness made
her miserable.

Fortunately, just now there was plenty to
divert her thoughts, and matters of wholly
impersonal kind brought them together. This
business of Mrs. de Robert's must progress,
and be brought to a speedy conclusion. Who
could effect this but herself and the Yicar ?
They must put their heads together, and contrive
to carry out their old friend's wishes in
spite of herself.

She wished to find the claimants and distribute
the property  till the claimants were
found and the property had to be distributed.
Then alike inclination and purpose
vanished. She would fain have the ancestral
treasures at the bottom of the Atlantic, and
the heirs-at-law myths and phantoms. In
fine, Mrs. de robert, like so many of us, was
a bundle of contradictions.

I don't believe another soul belonging to

the family is to be found except the two old
ladies,' she said confidently to Eugenia, two
days after the party. ' I'll tell you what I'd
like to do mightily, Eugenio ; give Selina
Beckett and Patience Purfle '

Sabina Ricketts and Prudence Perfect
put in Miss Ivory mildly.

As if they cared a straw what they're
called, provided they got some money Mrs.
de Robert said testily. Then winking her
eye, she added : ' Well, I'll tell you what I
mean to do if nobody else turns up ; and I'm
sure, at least I begin to feel quite certain,
that nobody else will. I shall allow each of
the old ladies an annuity, and with my poor
darling's money found a charity to be called
after him. Then,' here she winked again,
the plate and the jewels and the Murilly,
and the rest, shall go to you and your firstborn
son ; for of course you will marry, and 
I hope  have children some fine day, and
your first-born son shall be christened De
Robert.'

Eugenia laughed merrily.

Oh ! wicked, wicked Roberta ! No, that
would never do.'

I don't think my darling would be prevented
from resting in his grave by that,'
Mrs. de Eobert said. ' However, if some one
of the true stock turned up  a proper man,
the sort of man a girl like you would say "yes"
to it would, of course, be better. Deary metis
hard when we've got goods and chattels to
the value of twenty thousand pounds, we can't
find so much as a chimney-sweep to chin
it all!'

Again Miss Ivory laughed.

Only have patience, and you will see a
dozen chimney-sweeps.'

I hope not. It would be the death of me !'
was the reply.

I spoke figuratively, of course,' Eugenia
said. ' I mean those who Avant your money,
and to whom I suppose, in default of the proper
man, the genteel young man, you are bound
to give it. Ah me!' she added, with a little
sigh ; ' I confess, for my part, I should welcome
even a chimney-sweep with the pedigree in

VOL. I. 19

his hand. I am tired of waiting, Roberta. I
really do want to set forti with you, like
Don Quixote and Sancho Panza, in search of
adventure.'

We'll go to London this winter, anyhow,'
Mrs. de Robert said insinuatingly. ' You will
get balls and operas, Royal Institution lectures,
and that sort of thins:. Life in London would
be all adventure to quiet folks like ourselves.'

Eugenia shook her head.

 A sad coming down after Paris, Chamouni,
Rome  not to speak of Bongo and Central
Africa.'

Well, only settle this business for me, and
ril go where you please, and stay as long as
you please. Jt little matters to me in what
corner of the world I lay my old bones,' was
the good-natured reply.

The next day Mr. Meridian called at the
Manor House just when Mrs. de Robert would
be napping. He found, as he wished to do,
Eugenia alone in the arbour.

'Pardon me for intruding on you,' he said,
brief and business-like. ' Many thanks ; I

cannot sit down, my time is limited  well,
just for one minute, then. I wanted to say
one or two things. Firstly, to beg excuse for
speaking roughly to you yesterday. Under
certain circumstances a man can hardly be
expected to be amiable. However, I apologize,
and there is an end of the matter. Then
I wanted to say, for heaven's sake, don't let
that importuning fool Bacchus come to me
full of excuses. I cannot and will not see
him. And lastly, about this business of
Mrs. de Robert's. Things are really growing
serious. I am in the greatest perplexity how
to shape my actions.'

Eugenia could well believe it, and her face
expressed ready sympathy.

 How is it all to end ?' he asked impatiently.
Or is it not to end at all, but to go on for ever ?
Mrs. de Robert has found her next of kin.
AVhat more does she want ? And what are
we to do with these wolves in sheep's clothing
? How keep them indefinitely disguised ?
There is the Jesuit father, for instance, a most
gentlemanly, agreeable and, I should even say,

192

a distinguished man. He is at present the
guest of the Duke, but invitations at great
houses are generally given for very short
periods. Is he to go away empty-handed ashe
came ? Then there are the Americans,
gentlemen born and bred as it seems to arne,
and harmless enough, in spite of certain odd
notions they are said to hold about reforming
the world. Is their journey to be fruitless
also ?'

The Vicar had refused a seat in the first
instance on the plea of hurry. On second
thoughts, he accepted Miss Ivory's invitation
to sit down beside her. He seemed to have a
great deal to say, and to look to her for help)
in his embarrassment.

You hoped to pin Mrs. de Robert down to
a day of final settlement. Is it so ? And can
you answer for her when it comes to the
point ?'

I think I can,' Eugenia replied. * Shall I
propose this day month ? ISTo claims to be
put in after that date ; the property to be
assigned for once and for all.'

This day month !' said the Vicar, anxious
to get over the business, yet terribly afraid
that Eugenia's departure would follow, as a
natural consequence. ' Well, yes, this day
month  that is to say, the first of September.'


lie took out his note-book and made an
entry. Then he added, with an aghast
look :

And will you help me to entertain these
unfortunate people meantime ? They don't
appear to be in any hurry to depart. They
seem disposed to wait indefinitely, on the
barest chance of getting something. I suppose
that is only natural. It is only rather
hard upon me.'

I am very sorry ; I will do what I can,'
was the reply. 'And meantime Mrs. de
Robert seems quite taken with them  that is
to say, with the last ncAV-comers.'

Wait till she learns on what errand they
have come,' Mr. Meridian said grimly.
However, I have noted down the day you
propose. I will act upon your decision as if

it were final; and somebody  it really does
not much matter who  shall carry off the
treasure.'

He looked fagged, worn, and anxious.
Eugenia could but feel compunction. She
knew well enough what it was that made him
spiritless and indifferent to things in general,
and his own existence in particular.

He had, however, just one epigram to fling
at her before going away. Miss Ivory was
unfeminine in this respect  she was no devotee
of the needle. When she received
visitors, whether in bower or boudoir, they
ran no risk of sitting down on pieces of
crewel-work or baskets of thread bristling
with needles and pins.

As the Yicar now glanced round, he said :

Nothing looks more like vice than extravagant
virtue ; and nothing looks more like
virtue than engaging vice. I do believe you
are the idlest creature alive ; and yet wdiat so
odious as a woman who never raises her
eyes from her embroidery-frame or stocking-mending
?'

Then, with a parting glance at her, he took
cold leave.

She was quite ready to throw heart and
soul into the task Mr. Meridian had just
suggested. To entertain Mrs. de Robert's
next of kin  in other words, to make perpetual
picnics under a glowing sky, with
excellent company  could but be agreeable at
any time to a young lady bent upon seeing
the world.

The longed-for adventures had indeed
begun. Each day might now be fairly regarded
as an. adventure, and out-of-door life
brought welcome relief from anxious thoughts.
As to the wolves in sheep's clothing, nothing
could be more agreeable to them than such a
change  an interment of the little drama in
which they were called to play a part.

Summer-time spent under these circumstances
possessed the charm of legend and
romance. Would it not be easy for the most
prosaic mortals in the world to turn into
Robin Hoods and Maid Marion if similarly
placed ? Woodland pleasures in balmy

weather, for guide a beautiful girl endowed
with rare wit and spirit, a goodly fellowship)
to boot, and the prospect of seeing every tiling
turned into gold on the morrow  a fairy godmother
in their very midst !

No wonder one and all were mirthful,
amiable, and sprightly  not a dull clod
among them ! Dulness vanished, as it seemed,
to some far-distant, unreachable limbo.

As to the fairy godmother, Mrs. de Robert,
she declared it all vastly entertaining ; and
such a change, too, after seeing only Hopedale
folk for the past twenty years ! How pleasant,
too, to have no hungry relations prying into
matters, and on the greedy look-out for all
they could get ! True, there were Selina
Beckett and Patience Purfle; but she must
say this about them  they did know their
place, and, when matters came to a pinch,
Avould be satisfied with next to nothing.

CHAPTER I. 

MRS. DE TvOBERT HOLDS FORTH ON RELATIONS.

EITHER Briardale nor-Hopedale can
be called show-places, yet fewer
spots in England have more quiet
beauty to show. Nowhere is it easier to find
delicious nooks and woodland scenes that
seem to have been created expressly for happy
holiday folks. Briardale itself is so beautiful
and romantic, that but for church, post-office,
and trim cottages, lovers of the picturesque
could not do better than picnic in the village
street ! On either side are breezy bits of moor-vol.
II. 20

land, coppice, leafy woods, and cool pastures,
inviting to solitude and repose. "Within a
stone's-throw of the village, the stranger is as
well off as in the forest of Arden ; whilst the
prospect from the upper part is one of the
fairest in England.

Morecaml)e Bay is beautiful at all times,
alike in high-tide, when it shows a vast sheet
of silvery water; or when, completely drained,
nothing but a brown velvety expanse of
smoothest sand meets the eye. And exquisite
the frame of such a picture : rich hanging
woods on one side, near enough to show the
intermingled lines of oak, beech, and sycamore
; on the other, the receding hills, gold
and violet at dawn and sunset, a pale azure
cloud in noonday glare.

In a sweet spot commanding this view,
Miss Ivory next day was doing woodland
honours. She had marshalled her little
company to a grassy platform not far from the
village, whence, in cool shadow all the while,
they could behold the vast sun-bright picture.


Sabina and Prue, on the Curate's behalf,
were to provide tea ; and the Vicar, by way of
testifying the sincerity of his forgiveness, had
promised to partake. Mr. Bacchus, meantime,
was on no account whatever to allude to
what had happened.

You must understand,' Mr. Meridian said
to Eugenia beforehand, * it never was, and
never could be, my intention to quarrel with
Bacchus. What, in heaven's name, have eve
to quarrel about ? But if I yet find myself
obliged to administer the sharpest rebuke he
has ever incurred in his life, the fault will be
his own.'

She had too much faith in the Vicar's self-control,
and the Curate's remorse, to dread
another encounter. And as yet, although the
afternoon advanced, neither Vicar nor Curate
appeared.

Meantime, the little company was in the
highest spirits. Seated in a semicircle on the
mossy ground, each entertained by turns.

How well we all get on together !' said Mrs.
de Robert, addressing herself to the supposed

202

missionary ; ' and shall I tell you why ? It is
because Ave are not relations.'

Sabina and Prue blushed with a look of
downright guilt ; the priest and the Americans
looked at Miss Ivory and each other, unable
to resist a smile. The Doctor was the first to
take up the gauntlet.

Prove to me, my dear madam, that weare
not one and all descendants from Adam
and Eve, and I accept your proposition.
But is not humanity composed of cousins
many times removed ? Relationship I take
to be like those strong essences concocted
by pharmacy. A drop chokes and consumes
us  a mild dilution is swallowed with
pleasure. Who ever heard of a man murdering
his father's brother's wife's sister's son's
mother-inlaw while parricide and matricide
are common. No, Mrs. de Eobert is right ;
we can live in peace and angelic harmony
with everybody in the world, keeping murderous
hands alike off saint and demon 
provided they are neither our next of kin nor
heirs at law.'

Pretty morality that !' retorted the elder
Derrober. ' You ought to blush as red as a
poppy for uttering it. What will this gentleman,
a minister of religion, have to say to
you ? For my part, I accept your first position,
and stop there. Kinsfolk we all are, and kinsfolk
we must remain. But, heaven be praised !
no law compels us to herd together like a
flock of sheep. We may choose as boon companions
and sworn friends those of our blood
and name who are so much in sympathy with
us as to seem our second selves.'

Mrs. de Robert smiled grimly. The missionary
entered on the lists in mild, bland
tones.

A profoundly interesting and not easily
exhausted theme,' he said, ' and one in which
priest and layman must naturally differ. In
our eyes, consanguinity holds a second place,
and affinity in matters of faith is all in all.
Were every member of the present company
related to me, it would be my duty to love one
and all. Are they fellow-worshippers at the
same shrine, then are they beloved brethren

and sisters, although bound by no tic of
blood.'

That is how you missionaries feel, of
course,' Mrs. de Eobert said, ' and if not, poor
heathen folk would never have been induced
to wear clothes and give up eating each other.
I always put half a sovereign in the missionary
plate myself.'

Ah !' broke in the elder Derrober, his face
lighting up with enthusiasm. ' Let us beware
of tumbling headlong into a pitfall ! Does
not the sublime sentiment of relationship lie
deeper than our reverend friend would have
us believe ? To be kindly affectioned towards
those who agree with us in religion  that is to
say, in everything  is no hard task. But to
love those who swear by the Koran instead of
our own Bible ; who worship Auguste Comte
instead of the Virgin Mary ; who go to a
Swedenborgian chapel on Sundays whilst the
rest of us are streaming into the parish
church  there, methinks, lies the gist of the
matter !*

For my part,' added the Doctor, * I am

never better pleased than when I see people
hustling; each other about for the sake of
religion. It proves that we are not high class
apes anyhow, as Darwin tries to make out.
No, sir,' he said, turning to the so-called missionary
; ' you are right, and that old gentleman
yonder, my uncle, is wrong. There will
be no more fine doings in the world till the
age of religious persecution begins anew, and
dl who get the chance burn their neighbours
for calling; their souls their own. But the
ladies  have they not a word to say, either
for their relations or their religion V

Suppose they have neither one nor the
other V Mrs. de Eobert said provokingly.
She delighted in nothing so much as shocking
people by little reckless speeches that often
meant nothing.

Sabina remained dumb. Prue felt bound
to come forward on behalf of the black coat
and theology. She might affront her rough
kinswoman, with grave consequences to herself.
She could not help it. She was one of
those women who ought to have lived in the

Middle Ages, or at least had something like a
chance in the way of martyrdom.

I don't think she began, with a little
blush of excitement, ' that one need be very
learned to see the rio;ht and wrong; in these
matters. We have only to think of Eve and
the apple, and everything becomes as clear as
possible. Had Eve been a right-minded
woman and a dutiful wife, we should all be
of one opinion about religion, and love each
other whether relations or no, of course.'

I doubt if we should be much the better
for that,' Mrs. de Eobert jerked out. ' However,
no one is readier to love their relations
than I am, if I could only find them out.
Would you believe it,' she said, looking at the
three men, ' I am in the veriest quandary ever
heard of! I want folks who can prove themselves
kith and kin  my husband's, I mean ;
and though I have spent upwards of fifty
pounds on advertisements and inquiries of
all kinds, nobody turns up.'

Then,' said the elder Derrober, with an
insinuating smile, * there is nothing left for

you to do but adopt idea.! kinsfolk, men and
women after your own heart.'

One thing is quite certain,' put in the
Doctor : ' adoption would make a man of me,
morally, spiritually, socially. I am in the
position of an ill-fated peach. The sun has
ripened it, the breeze has sent it tumbling
to earth ; but there it lies, no one to pick
it up.'

'I might do worse,' Mrs. de Robert said.
 You are vastly entertaining.'

Pay no heed, I entreat you, madam,' said
the elder, *to this scapegrace, this good-for-nothing,
this devil me-care ! If you want no
fair-weather concern, but a taut ship that will
ride to port through a dozen gales, take me.
If adoption is sweet to the young, the
lusty, and the hopeful, how much more so
must it be to those in the sere and yellow
leaf ! Adoption, if carried out in a proper
spirit, offers a solution of the gravest problems
that perplex philosophers. Were one half of
humanity to adopt the other half, philanthropy
would have said its last word, and

this terrestrial globe would once more enjoy a
<;-olden ao;e.'

Nay,' began the missionary in clear silvery
tones, and smiling as he spoke. ' Beware,
madam, of these bashful materialists,
these transparent sceptics. Rome, it is true,
availed herself of the divine principle
of adoption. The Church and the Church
alone has carried out its true spirit.
The aim of Rome was to strengthen her
dread empire, and knit in closer bands
citizen with citizen. The Church has set herself
to diminish orphanhood, to shelter the
helpless ! So,' here he turned once more to
Mrs. de Eobert with an engaging smile, * adopt
me  in other words, the Church  and you
become at once the feeder of the hungry, the
clothier of the naked, the teacher of the
ignorant  a nameless Providence to thousands
!'

I have not a single w-ord to say against
any one of you,' was the good-natured reply.
I have not, indeed. I'd as lief see my poor
husband's property in your hands as in any

other. Only, you see, you do not possess the
necessary qualifications. You don't belong
to the family.'

Miss Ivory looked delightfully provocative.
Sabina and Prue could not conceal an expression
of embarrassment. The three men
remained perfectly cool.

Have we ever said so V the Doctor began.
You never asked us, that I know of. Now
I just ask you to eye that old gentleman, my
uncle, yonder. Did you ever see a hungrier,
more lanthorn-jawed face ; a more shark-like
look ? Blanket him like Sancho Panza, and
you'll never hear two gold pieces chinking in
his pockets, I'll warrant you. Then look at
me  yes, look at me, madam. Don't hurry.
Take your time. What on earth should I be
roving about the world for, at my age, a
bachelor, ready for anything that turns up ?
Of course, like my uncle, I'm some poor relation
waiting to be adopted. I couldn't be
otherwise. Then cast your eyes upon the
reverend gentleman sitting next you. You
must know what he is sniffing in the wind I

When did a parson lose the chance of pocketing
a little money V

Mrs. de Robert seemed to relish the joke
keenly. She thought it the best possible.

Well,' she said, ' produce your credentials.
Out with your pedigrees, and you shall have
anything you like  that I have to give, I
mean.'

The Doctor rubbed his hands with a look of
exultation.

You hear that, uncle ? But, my dear
madam, you cannot be serious. Supposing
we could all three do this  my uncle, the
reverend gentleman sitting next you, and
myself. Supposing, I say, we could prove to
your satisfaction that we come of the true de
Robert stock, would you give us so much as a
dollar apiece ? Bestow money on a couple of
adventurers from the other side of the Atlantic
revolutionaries, dynamite, for aught you
know, in disguise ? Fill the pockets of a
missionary, corrupter of the innocent heathen ;
forster of civilization and the gin-bottle upon
ingenuous Arcadian beyond seas ? No, you

would not  you could not, consistently with
sanity, enrich such a set"'

'AYhat folks would do with the money
when they get it is no concern of mine,' Mrs.
de Eobert said. ' My duty is to find the
rightful owners ; and I shall do my duty.'

There speaks one I am proud to claim as
my kinswoman !' said the elder Derrober,
carried away by his enthusiasm. * Madam, I
will no longer conceal the truth. You e
before you three descendants of that noble de
Eobert who sacrificed himself for his country
on Bosworth Field.'

Then I will never speak to any one of you
again 1' cried Mrs. de Eobert, exasperated
beyond measure.

THE Evolves UNMASKED.

HE did, however, speak to them
adam, and to some purpose. The
cup of ire was full to the brim.
It must perforce overflow. Meantime Miss
Ivory, calmness itself, waited, to pour oil on
the troubled waters, till the hast fury of the
storm should have somewhat abated. Sabina
hind Prue looked the very images of vexation.
They had not enjoyed so many gala days in
the course of their existence that they could
afford to see this one spoiled.

The behaviour of the delinquents was characteristic.
The incorrigible Doctor evidently
enjoyed the situation. His uncle wore an

expression of almost apostolic self-reproach
and resignation. As to the missionary  in
other words, the Jesuit father his behaviour
was exactly what might have been expected
from him from first to last, that of the finished
gentleman, the amiable savant, and the consummate
man of the world.

To think,' began Mrs. de Robert, first of
all addressing herself to the elder Derrober,
 that a man of your years, a Christian as -I
suppose you term yourself, and a citizen of
the finest country in the world  I say, that you
should demean yourself by playing tricks like
a schoolboy, shaming your gray hairs by
taking in an old woman like me, cajoling and
carrying for the sake of filthy lucre. When
I say a thing I mean it. When I advertised
for my late husband's next of kin, I wished to
find 'em. And when I said they were wanted
for something to their advantage, I spoke the
truth. Why could you not be square, give
me an honest tit for tat, say your say and
have done ? It was not my business to
praise you up to the skies or pick you to

pieces. All I had to do Alas to find out
whether you were the right people or no, and
act accordingly. My husband's people maybe
the veriest riffraff that ever were, the
tag-rag and bobtail of society, the scum of
the earth, or angels dropped from heaven  'tis
no sort of business of mine. What made you
suppose I was not a woman of my word ?
Ah ! I should like to know that. You'll
have to throw a little light on the matter
before you have done, I can tell you.'

The victim of this castigation remained
mute, as if born dumb. He raised his hands
and eyes to heaven, glanced appealingly
from one to the other of the little company,
but never attempted to open his lips. And
for the best possible reason : he had nothing
in the world to say.

Mrs. de Robert paused for a moment to
gather breath, then with choler undiminished,
and voluble as before, she took the Doctor in
hand. If his meek and contrite uncle deserved
a birchino', surely the unabashed and even
jaunty nephew merited little less than the

bastinado. There he sat showing a merry
countenance, hands pocketed, just raising;
himself from time to time on his chair, all
the while eying his terrible kinswoman with
equanimity and defiance.

'Tis little enough I have to say to you,
began Mrs. de Robert. ' But 'twill be a pepperer,
I warrant you. You are a young man 
thirty-five or thereabouts, I take it. How
comes it that you should be running abojit
the world in this harum-scarum fashion, instead
of staying at home and maintaining a
wife and family? What could put it into
your head, that were there a million to be
disposed of you would get so much as a
groat ? Of what use would money be to such
a good for nothing ? as well throw it into the
sea at once. I don't wonder, I am sure, that
you found your way here in this slinking,
underhand fashion. You know you had
not so much as a word to say for yourself.
But when you took me to be one of those
weak creatures, imposed upon by soft
speeches and artful flatteries, you were vastly

VOL. II. 21

mistaken. I saw through you from the
first.'

My dear madam began the Doctor, in the
most cheerful tones, ' never had I a more
agreeable task than that of vindicating myself
in your eyes. But let me dispose of your
aspersions one at a time. First of all, you
find fault with me for being a bachelor, and
you seem to think that no man can be worth
his weight  well, say in hay, that being as
cheap a commodity as any, unless he has a
better-half and a round dozen of youngsters.
But, permit me to observe, history proves the
exact contrary. The men who have been
worth their weight in gold, we find, were
bachelors. There is that shining luminary,
!Newton ; that prince of philosophers, Locke,
both unmarried men, to say nothing of other
immortals as plentiful as blackberries. In
fact, to have reached his prime and remained
a bachelor is the most splendid eulogium that
can be pronounced upon any man. lie has
sacrificed himself for humanity in general,
and the good of ages to come. His portion

consists of crusts watered with tears and damp
stockings, instead of buttered bannocks and
slippers warmed for him by a loving spouse.
Well, now for your next indictment. I am
roaming about the world in vagabond fashion,
say you ; but consider a moment. I am no
fairy prince possessed of an invisible cloak.
Science has invented no method of compressing
one's ponderosity into a nutshell. I was obliged
to come as I am, bring my fourteen stone bf
flesh, bone, and muscle, or stay at home.'

Mrs. de Robert was fain to interrupt this
tirade and begin her third castigation. The
Doctor would be heard to the end.

Finally, you hurl invectives at me for not
having made myself known to you before.
The subterfuge was resorted to in order to
spare your feelings. Supposing you had conceived
a violent antipathy to me, how painful
to have to manifest it openly, and send me
empty-handed away ! Such an incognito was
dictated by the most delicate scruples that can
actuate the human mind.'

A g for your scruples !' cried Mrs. de

2} 2

Robert. * You are a specious-tongued machinator,
that is what you are. However, there
is more excuse for you than for a minister of
religion. AVhat can you say for yourself?'
she said, now turning waspishly to the third
delinquent. ' Much good have you learned
from Bible and Prayer-book, whatever you
may have taught the poor blackness. I am sure
I am as hit to go and convert the heathen
myself. How could a preacher of the Gospel
reconcile himself to such shifts and double-dealing
? What do you set us nodding about
on Sundays except righteous men and duty
to one's neighbours, and so forth ? But 'tis
always so. Those who pretend to be better
than others are the worst.'

She paused, not from want of arguments
but lack of breath, and the priest adroitly
seized the chance of getting in a word. It was
the thin end of the wedge. He knew well
enough, if difficult for him to stop Mrs. de
Robert, still more difficult would it be for lier
to stop him. Invaluable result of his training !
What would not many of us give to attain

such perfect mastery of any situation that
presents itself  such entire self-reliance under
the most perplexing circumstances !

With ready insinuation and a smile, half-sarcastic,
half-patronizing, he began :

My fellow-culprits are well able to take
care of themselves, or I could say much on
their behalf, and every word thus uttered
would have double force when applied to
myself. If it is natural, even praiseworthy,
to desire wealth for honourable self-advancement,
the good of one's family, philanthropic
objects, and the like, is not much more to be
said for those craving wealth without any
personal motive whatever '

Hear, hear !' cried the irrepressible Doctor,
clapping his hands.

Plausible as a parson, they may well say,'
put in Mrs. de Robert, letting, however the
speaker go on.

Had I journeyed hither from a remote
corner of the globe in hope of mending my
family fortunes, placing a son out in the
world, providing a daughter with dowry, and

obtaining comforts for my old age, where was
the blame ? But fill my pockets with gold,
send me back whence I came a millionnaire,
freight the ship that bears me with treasure
of all kinds  not so much as the value
of a loaf of bread should I regard as my
own.'

'Hear, hear!' again cried the Doctor.

The elder Derrober listened with sympathetic
interest. Prue looked deeply impressed.
Sabina enjoyed the scene intensely now that
the altercation had taken a milder form, and
she dreaded no more storms. Miss Ivory,
making: sirens to one and another of her
guests, demurely passed them a supplementary
cup of tea.

That is always how you parsons talk.
You are all saints in your own estimation.
But as this fine talk costs us nothing, let us
sit it out!' Mrs. de Robert exclaimed.

More impressively the speaker went on.

Your money would raise schools and
churches in the wilderness, ransom the slave,
spread the love of the English name to remote

corners of the globe, teach the savage to bend
the knee to the only God.'

Hear, hear I' a third time cried the
Doctor.

'With aims like these, was I not justified
in acting as I have done ?' pursued the priest,
in taking what seemed the most likely course
to bring about my wishes ? We have no
magic arts wherewith to fascinate others and
force them into doing our will. We can bit
use such weapons as we possess. It seemed
natural to expect some antipathy, even prejudice,
from you, towards one of my calling.
I hoped, J believed, that having learned to
know the man, you would no longer recoil
from the Jesuit!'

'A Jesuit!' cried Mrs. de Robert aghast;
then the recollection of the mysterious letters,
S. J.,' came back to her, and she saw it all.

Never had wolf more cunningly disguised
itself in sheep's clothing. Her wrath and
indignation knew no bounds ; but there was
something in the priest's manner and appearance
that compelled her to exercise self-control.

Her cup of ire was full to overflowing.
She could not fling sarcasm and
invective at hin as at the mute uncle and
aggressive nephew.

Far be it from me to deny my calling,'
was the quiet reply. ' Can any show more
striking examples of flesh subdued to will ;
the human Ego transformed into a passive instrument
for good ?'

Humph !' cried Mrs. de Robert. ' There
are two sides to that question. However, goon,
sir.'

I will strike out that word ' good," then,
since it displeases sou,' the priest added
gravely, 'and say, instead, "for what he believes
to be good" '

'Hear, hear!' a fourth time ejaculated the
lively Doctor.

The speaker continued :

Now, I take not the slightest credit to
myself for the fact, but it is incontestable. I
am no longer a certain individuality, like
other men, a bundle of personalities. I am a
mere agent, an automaton  a piece of machinery

in human form. We cannot help ourselves.
We Jesuits must be single-minded,
whether we will or no. Do we not travel
from one end of the known globe to the other
with nothing in the shape of property but a
Bible ? Even that does not entirely belong tous.
No matter the climate or the task, the
perils that beset us, the privations Ave have to
undergo, like soldiers we obey the word of
command. No murmurs ever escape onr
lips.' 

Every word, so far, Gospel-truth,' interrupted
the Doctor.

The speaker continued, with milder insinuation
than before :

Whatever thoughts you may harbour in
your mind against my order, let us be reconciled
on these terms. I come to you as a
mendicant on behalf of the Christ you believe
in, as well as myself Whether I go away
empty-handed or no, I shall ever bear you
kindliest feeling, and this pilgrimage to the
home of my ancestors will be remembered as
one of the brightest episodes of my existence.

Madam and dear cousin, take my hand in
token of reconcilement.'

The climax was so unexpected, the sudden
turn given to affairs so irresistible, that a little
electric shock seemed to run through the company.
Even Mrs. de Robert felt the thrill,
and looked dazed, unbounded. Never was
painful position more adroitly changed, never
stormy feeling allayed with quieter magic.

But when the speaker, not content with
taking his kinswoman's reluctantly extended
hand, respectfully stooped down and saluted
her on each cheek with the kiss of peace, the
general enthusiasm knew no bounds.

The elder Derrober started from his seat as
if he had been straightway ordered to do so,
and went up to Sabina and Prue, according
the same fraternal salute.

The Doctor clapped his hands to see, looked
wistfully at Miss Ivory, advanced a step towards
her, then drew back.

Uncle and nephew obtained a hand-shake
from Mrs. de Robert, not for the life of them
venturing to ask for more.

Then followed a general hand shaking and
interchange of friendly little speeches. All
was agreeable flatter and commotion.

Miss Ivory, meantime, turned to her old
friend with the most sparkling grace imaginable,
and as she glanced round with a charming
smile, thus commented upon the day's
event :

One thing seems certain, you and I, Mrs.
de Robert, hardly need to set forth, like Don
Quixote and Sancho Panza, in search of romance
and adventure. Romance and adventure
have begun at home !'

CLERICAL Hide-and-seek.

NO less curious scene was taking-place
just beyond the precincts of
the little glade.
By dint of womanly tact and diplomacy
Miss Ivory had extracted a promise from
both the Vicar and the Curate to join her
Woodland company. If only for a few minutes,
they must come, she said, in order to shov
the sincerity of their reconciliation.

Now, such an invitation to both was precisely
a case of powder and jam. They where
to gulp down the nauseous dose of each other's
presence as best they could for the sake of a
word, a smile, from the beautiful Eugenia

As to reconciliation, there was every inducement
to shake hands and appear on friendly
terms. Their very existence  in other words,
her good opinion  depended on their bearing
each other.

The Vicar, in most matters an exceedingly
self-controlled man, able to keep his impulses
and passions well in hand, found it none the
less difficult to be cool now.

Mr. Bacchus, mercurial, inflated with vanity
one moment, self depreciatory to morbidness
the next, felt, as he after Awards expressed it,
on the edge of a precipice. He was determined
to humble himself in the Vicar's presence,
and not to quarrel, even if incensed
and exasperated beyond human endurance.
But if Miss Ivory's name were brought forward
he could not be responsible for his
actions, he said. He could not, really.

Disagreeable as it was to the Vicar to have
to meet the Curate, and still more repugnant
as it was to Mr. Bacchus to encounter Mr.
Meridian, the pair found it impossible to resist
Eugenia's fascinations. If the chance presented

itself of spending half an hour in her
presence, they must seize on it, no matter
how dearly purchased the pleasure. So it
was now. The fire would scorch and inflict
cruel smarts ; the flame was magnetically
attractive to these poor moths as to any
flitting about our candle. Go to the sylvan
meeting-place they must and would.

There was, however, just one comfortable
straw to clutch at. They might miss each
other, or all but miss each other  that is to
say, the one might come just as his rival was
departing, or the reverse. A fortuitous concatenation
of events might entail upon them
only a formal ' How-d'ye-do ?' and ' Good-day.'


The step taken by the Kev. Mr. Bacchus to
ensure a solution of the knotty point was
highly characteristic. Having finished his
sermon, he pulled out of his pocket a penny -
piece, and tossed up for it  heads if the Vicar
should quit Eugenia and her friends early,
tails if he should arrive late. Heads won ; so
the Curate, with great alacrity, decided to

join the picnic-party towards the close of the
afternoon.

Mr. Meridian's resolve was promptly made.
That unconscionable Bacchus,' he said, ' is
sure to tire everybody out by getting there
too soon. I may just manage to miss him
by going at the last moment.'

And then he said to himself, and pretended
to believe it, that his only motive for going at
all was the satisfaction of Miss Ivory. He
wished to show her that he was as good as
his word, and that the Curate, provided he
behaved like a gentleman for the future,
had nothing in the world to fear from
him.

Thus, as ill-luck would have it, the two
men timed their setting out so as to approach
the meeting place very nearly at the same
moment.

Miss Ivory's choice of a rendezvous lent
itself to the clerical hide-and-seek that now
followed. Hopeful as they felt about escaping
each other's society, both the Vicar and the
Curate realized the necessity of caution. Anyhow,

they would not for worlds encounter
each other on the way.

The woodland meeting-place was the slope
of a wooded hill commanding a view of Morecambe
Bay. Above this lawny opening were
the coppice woods, a compact mass of greenery
and shadow ; and higher still the broad, breezy
fell, divided by a road.

Now, so long as their roads remained in the
open, there was no risk of a meeting. The
Vicar started from one point, the apex of a Y,
the Curate from another : they could not
possibly meet till they had nearly reached
their journey's end. Briskly and confidently
they made the best of their way to the edge
of the wood ; but when once they plunged in
it was a different matter. The paths made
by nut-gatherers and bilberry-pickers were
few and far between. They must take the
first downward one they could find, or none
at all, and every step must necessarily lead
them nearer to each other, each supposing the
other to be on the Away. To meet anyhow
was disagreeable enough ; to meet in a path

only wide enough to admit of one was
something more than disagreeable under the
circumstances.

The Curate was the first to get into the
wood, and no sooner there than his behaviour
resembled that of a hare sniffing the harriers
abroad. He stopped short, pricked up his
ears, glanced hither and thither, although, of
course, there was nothing to see but green
boughs, went on a step farther, then looked
and listened again. No ; he could not so
much as hear the rustling of a leaf Nobody
was about but himself. At the same time he
discreetly left the path he had chosen and
struck into a yet narrower one. Both led to
the glade ; the last, being beset with brambles,
would hardly be chosen by a man so careful
of his personal appearance as the Vicar. Next
Mr. Meridian entered the wood. He took the
first opening, and trudged on briskly. The
afternoon was waning ; scant time he should
have with the little company at best. He
must lose no time ; not for worlds would he
appear to regret the pledge accorded Eugenia j

VOL. II. 22

nor was he less reluctant to seem negligent
of her guests. He just glanced round, looked
before and behind him to see if anybody was
there, then hastened on.

As the pair thus playing hide-and-seek got
nearer and nearer to the place of meeting, they
must necessarily get nearer to each other, and
reach the convergent point of the angle. But
once within earshot of the little party drinking
tea in the glade, they forgot their own
concerns altogether.

The altercation had just begun. The first
word that greeted their ears, uttered in a high
key, and in a well-known voice, told them
what had happened. The Yicar's little ruse
had been detected. The storm of Mrs. de
Robert's wrath was bursting in full fury over
his partners in deceit.

Both stood still  Mr. Meridian listening
as coolly as if he were a mere passer-by ;
Mr. Bacchus relishing the scene with a
schoolboy's love of imbroglio and mischief
The fault was not of his committing. He
should get off scot-free this time. He could

afford to laugh. Mr. Meridian's first impulse
was disgust. It was a contretemps, a piece
of checkmating. Pie had laid his plans differently,
and he did not like to have them
interfered with. In so far as Mrs. de Robert's
anger concerned himself, he felt no anxiety.
It was sufficiently disagreeable to be abused
by a woman, certainly. You could not use
the means of silencing her that you could
naturally use in dealing with a man. But
the ill taste, the vulgarity, would be hers, not
his own. She might say what she pleased
for aught he cared.

The pair continued to move on gingerly,
just a step or two at a thine, now halting altogether.
Mrs. de Robert's tirades amused them
mightily, and they liked to hear what the men
had to say for themselves. They very soon
became so absorbed as to be utterly oblivious
of each other's probable presence. The slight
rustling they now made w-as not even
observed. With riveted attention they paused
and listened. Xow it was the Doctor speaking,
his crisp, clear speech ringing through

22 2

the silence of the wood, every syllable being
caught with perfect distinctness. Next followed
the vehement attack on the priest.
High-pitched almost to shrillness sounded
Mrs. de Robert's voice, more resembling
the cry of some discordant bird than mere
feminine utterance. In striking contrast came
the soft, silvery tones of her interlocutor.
Not a syllable of that well-turned apology
missed the ears of the pair, whilst emphatic
as the tapping of the woodpecker sounded
the ' Hear, hear ' of the chorus.

The Yicar and the Curate now forgot that
little game of hide-and-seek just played so
cunningly.

When the priest left off speaking, and a
general silence intervened, both became so
anxious to see what was taking place that
they made a reckless plunge forward. The
path sloped towards a bit of copse bristling
With holly and bramble ; the copse was on a
deeper incline still, and ended in a broad d3ke,
separating the wood from the open ground.
No sooner, therefore, was the hurried descent

begun than a halt became impossible. Were
a horrid gulf or dangerous crevasse below,
the pair, having once begun to go down, must
keep on going down, and precipitate as had
been the beginning, still more precipitate,
according to the laws of motion, must bethe
end.

Without in the least suspecting what was
about to happen, the Vicar and the Curate
now tumbled, not only to the bottom of the
ditch, but into each other's arms, greatly to
their own discomfiture and the consternation
of the little company there to see.

FRIENDS, LOVERS, AND RIVALS.

'W'HE occurrence created a happy diversion.



Deary me !' cried Mrs. de
Eobert, forgetting what she was afterwards
pleased to call that Judas kiss.

" Jack and Jill went up the hill,
To fetch a pail of water ;
Jack fell down and broke his crown,
And Jill came tumbling after." '

Sabina and Prue recovered from the pleasing-little
shock of Mr. Derrober's salutation. The
uncle and the priest looked on interested, but
lazy. Miss Ivory and the Doctor ran forward
to the aid of the unlucky adventurers.

Fortunately the dyke was dry, but it was
deep and choked with brambles, nettles,
and brushwood. Heated, discomposed, with
rumpled garments, the pair once at the bottom
found it no easy matter to regain their feet.
Mr. Meridian, being the slighter of the two,
was the first to emerge.

Families est descensus Averni,' cried the
Doctor, as he lent him a helping hand, ' and
ofttimes thorny, sir, the path of pleasure as
of virtue. However, here you are, and not
much the worse, I hope, for your tumble.'

Mr. Meridian thanked him, shook the dust
and thistle-down from his coat, adjusted his
hat, and was himself in a moment, ready to
dismiss the catastrophe from his mind altogether.
It was a trifle not worth thinking
about, he said.

The extrication of the Curate was a less
easy matter. There he lay, his long limbs
sprawling amid the brambles, the very picture
of helplessness and dismay. Miss Ivory,
however, with her parasol did good service,
and at length he clambered up the steep

sides of the ditch. He was not, however,
inclined to drop the matter so quickly. Was
it not an adventure ? and he adored adventures.
Had he not evoked sympathy ? and
he adored sympathy.

What an extraordinary fact it is,' he said,
one never knows where one is going ! We
set out for a certain place, and the chances
are ten to one that we arrive at exactly the
opposite of that place. Who could have supposed,
for instance, that there Avould be any
risk to life or limb in crossing that little
wood ? The wonder is we have come alive
out of such a pitfall.'

The Vicar had nodded to the Curate ; the
Curate had returned the greeting in the same
easy fashion. Thus Mr. Bacchus's mind was
set at rest upon one joint. Mr. Meridian
intended to let bygones be bygones, and be
civil to him. His spirits rose.

The least you could have done under the
circumstances Alas to break a leg. Think of
the romance of the situation,' Miss Ivory said.
The Doctor's skill called into sudden requisition.

All of us in a fever of anxiety. Yourself
the hero of the hour.'

Ah, a hero ! I should like for once in my
life to be that. The hero of a broken leg
would perhaps be better than nothing. But
no, some gloomy prognostic tells me I shall
never be even so much. I feel that I am
doomed to perpetual obscurity.'

Renown is the easiest thing in the world,'
put in the Doctor. ' Contrive an ingenious
murder, and the whole world is talking about
you. There is the disagreeable feeling about
the thing, certainly, but you can be as sorry
as you please afterwards, and that makes all
right.'

The Curate seeing himself obliged to pays
his respects to Mrs. de Robert, Miss Ivory
took up the challenge.

I hope you do not carry these abominable
theories into practice she said. This stranger
amused her. He was not handsome, nor
highly finished after the manner of Mr. Meridian.
He evidently paid little attention to
his personal appearance, and was natural even

to bluntness. But he was very entertaining.


A villain I am, must be of necessity lie
said. ' You don't suppose, do you, that a
race is kept alive for six hundred years unless
it consists of the deepest dyed scoundrels that
ever throve on rapine, pillage, and murder?
The saints, the wise folks, the meek, have all
gone to the wall since history began, and
coats-farms, family mottoes, and pedigrees
just testify to the fact that our especial ancestors
were about as bad as they could be,
nothing more.'

Would that I were a Montmorency for all
that !' sighed Miss Ivory.

Would that I could swear my great-grand-father
was a grasshopper,' was the reply.
To come into the world unencumbered of
ancestral curses and crimes, as Father Adam
himself. Ah ! that is the kind of pedigree I
would pay fifty pounds for at the Herald's
Office. However, I have no reason to grumble
with a genealogical tree that has brought me
great expectations.'

To be realised, I hope !' Eugenia said
heartily.

 Wish not rashly ! What is the thing we
wish for when we get it ?  mere cobweb,
thistle-down, soap-babble ; but the condition
of expectancy, that is true happiness. So do
not suffer our kinswoman yonder to dismiss
us summarily. I assure you, I wish for
nothing better than to stay here and never go
away at all  live at Hopedale to the close of
my mortal career, perpetually waiting for
something to my advantage !'

And the longer Mrs. de Robert waits, the
more claimants would, of course, be found,'
she said. ' The De Robert family was given
1o wandering. One settled in Crim Tartary,
and maybe married a Circassian ; a
second went out with an explorer to the
South Seas, was made prisoner by the natives,
married a maiden and turned savage ; a third
disguised himself as a Mussulman for the sake
of seeing Timbuctoo, and for auoht we know
his descendants may be that to this day.
Now, if Mrs. de Robert could only advertise

for her husband's next of kin in the newspapers,
not only of Europe, but of the entire
globe, what a motley evasion wee should have !'

Where meantime would be the spoil ?'
the Doctor said, with a little grimace. ' This
polyglot proceeding, I trow, would soon swallow
it up as neatly as a boa-constrictor gulped
down an ox. How sorry, however, I am I
did not know of your romantic disposition
before! Instead of coming as plain Frank
Derrober, I would have disguised myself asa
Red Indian or some other equally engaging
survival. These romantic instincts, however,
I heartily approve of. To me it is a matter
of perpetual atonement that the human
race does not come to a sudden standstill
that women, be they the most prosaic whoever
kneaded a dumpling, can submit to be
courted by creatures wearing frock-coats and
chimney-pot hats.'

Perhaps all is for the best,' the young lady
replied. ' If fine clothes where in vogue with
men also, would not the last line of demarcation
between the two sexes disappear altogether

? It seems to me that nothing but
the bonnet and the train distinguish the one
from the other.'

It is handy certainly to have such distinctions
in the case of professional folk the
Doctor replied. ' Suppose I had a wife, and
that wife an M.D., but for the bonnet what
imbroglios would arise ! She blunders in cutting
off a leg, I am had up for incompetence.
I poison a patient by misadventure, the poor'
woman hangs for it. Lawyers and advocates
too. A nice time they would have of it
united in holy matrimony but for the bonnet.
The judge's gown conferred upon Mrs. Brief
by mistake. Mr. Brief laid violent hands on
by doctor and nurse when his better half
is taken ill. The legal fireside would be a
Pandemonium, Blackstone a bone of contention,
but for the bonnet.'

Do women marry men for their wit ? Such
was the question uppermost in the Vicar's
mind that afternoon as he watched Eugenia
and her companion. For the first time he
began to regard these next of kin in the light

of possible rivals. The epigrammatic Doctor
disconcerted, even alarmed him. He saw that
these scintillations and flashes of wit and
esprit, this apt, ready, telling speech, impressed
and entertained Miss Ivory  that she
was laid under a charm. Dr. Derrober, so at
least thought the Vicar, had not much else
to recommend him. He was confessedly a
poor man. He openly avowed that he had
little to boast of in the way of worldly
position. He was furthermore a man wedded
to ideas, a speculator, a theorist, an intellectual
vagabond, here to-day, there tomorrow,
the last in the world likely to win
honours of place or rise in the social scale.

Nor could he be called personally attractive,
Mr. Meridian thought ; he seemed an excellent
fellow in the main  frank, pleasant, far from
being common, much less contemptible  that
was all to be said in his favour. Except for
his really remarkable gift of speech, there
was nothing to distinguish him from the
crowd.

Seeing, however, that he did possess this

faculty of saying clever things, and that Miss
Ivory listened to him with alacrity, the Vicar
did not like the look of it. He determined by
hook or by crook, by fair means or foul, to
settle the matter of Mrs. de Robert's next of
kin as summarily as possible. The charmer
must be forthwith got rid of Meantime, the
worse luck for him, he had delegated the task
of entertaining the strangers to Eugenia.
Never had over-confidence led him into a'
graver blunder. From her kindly feeling for
the Curate, irritating as it was, he knew that
he had little or nothing to fear. But women
were so romantic, so given to enthusiasm !
Once their imaginations are touched, there is
no accounting for them. Yes, the sooner the
pair of Transatlantic travellers were sent home
the better.

It might seem inconsistent in Mr. Meridian
to dwell upon these matters so seriously now.
After what had passed between himself and
Miss Ivory a few days before, surely most
men would have given up the case as hopeless.
Like the haughty lover in the song,

they would have turned from the lady with
the farewell :

If she be not fair to me,
What care I how fair she be V

Not of this complexion the Yicar of Hope-dale.
He was a man of the world, widely
experienced in affairs, and possessed a keen
insight into the human heart. He knew how
often mere impulse and inclination are worsted
by force of circumstances ; how complex are
the springs of action ; how ofttimes motiveless
and involuntary appears the conduct of life in
gravest crises. That Eugenia did not love
him, and would not hearken to his suit now,
was no sort of argument that she would never
marry him. At least, so he reasoned, as he
discontentedly watched her in animated conversation
with the Doctor; whilst to his share
fell a far less agreeable tete-astute with Mrs.
de Robert.

You are uncommonly nimble in getting
out of a ditch,' were her first words, accompanied
by a' mischievous chuckle.

He coolly brushed some thistle-down still

sticking to his garments ; then added, as he
took a seat beside her :

And as nimble, you must confess, in
getting out of a difficulty. You cannot deny
that I hit upon a capital expedient for
introducing you to those obnoxious next of
kin.'

A nice sort of a person you are for a
clergyman,' Mrs. de Eobert said, no longer
wrathful, but nettled at having been taken in.
 Up till now I should have believed anything
in the world you chose to tell me. Yes, had
you said my tabby cat was coal-black or milk-white,
I should have said : " If Mr. Meridian
calls her black or white, black or white she
must be, though all the world call her a tabby." '

I am delighted to hear you say so,' the
Vicar replied, following Eugenia and her
cavalier with furtive glances.

Delighted to be told to your face that
henceforth I shall never believe a word you
say!' cried Mrs. de Robert.

Believe in what I do, and I shall be perfectly
satisfied,' retorted the Vicar. ' You are,

VOL. IT. 23

I am sure, at heart charmed to find that these
delightful personages are really your relations.
You were praising them to the skies but
yesterday.'

You won't hear me praise them to the
skies any more,' was the indignant reply.
Praise people who find pleasure in hoaxing
an old woman like me?  not I!'

Nay, the jest was innocent enough, and
perfectly justifiable,' the Vicar answered in
the same quietly satiric tones. ' If all is fair
in love and war, all is certainly fair in a game
of scramble like this.'

He turned to his old friend with a penetrating
look, and added in a low voice only
audible to herself:

You seem to forget that these good people
want money.'

Then,' she said in a pet, ' give 'em the
money  give 'em everything there is  and
send 'em about their business !'

A WOODLAND CONFERENCE.

HAT will not spirit, wit, understanding
do for a man ?

Here was this stranger charming
Miss Ivory, the fastidious Miss Ivory ; by
virtue of speech only, turning a common hour
and an every-day scene into romance and
adventure, riveting her attention as if some
delightful drama were being enacted before
her eyes.

After the climax and anticlimax that had
just occurred, the little party broke up into
twos and threes. Mr. Bacchus helped Proc
and Sabina to fill their baskets with wild
strawberries for the children. Mr. Derrober

232

T,nd Father de Eobert paced the glades, deep
ill theological discussion. Only Mrs. de
Eobert and the Vicar remained seated, confabulating
amicably as a pair of lovers after a
somewhat hot debate. There was this to be
said for Mr. Meridian, as she admitted afterwards
 he could always talk people over.
Averse he to encounter his Satanic Majesty
himself, and be entrapped into an argument,
he would succeed in talking him over.

There was no reason therefore why Eugenia
and the Doctor should not quit the others
now. The little wood just above the glade
led to a fine bit of breezy heath, and when
once you began to ramble over it, you felt
inclined to go on rambling, especially in good
company.

The young lady had taken off her hat, and
a charming apparition she made, with which
to startle the rabbits and multitudinous little
birds piping in the bushes.

Her tall, erect figure never looked to better
advantage than in a light summer dress such
as she wore now  hers, too, the face to be

seen to best advantage out of doors. No
more need had the wild rose to shun inspection
in the clear light of day, and the one
as free from blemish as the other.

The very last thing uppermost in Eugenia's
mind, however, was her own appearance just
then ; nor did she pay the slightest attention
to her companion's. He interested her.
Could a paragon of his sex do more ? She
wanted to hear of his history  his past experiences
 above all. of himself The first
sympathetic chord touched, the keynote
struck of a harmony capable of infinite variation,
intercourse becomes progressive and
easy.

You must wonder  you are bound to
wonder,' he began, ' how it comes about that
two men, presumably neither dolts nor knaves,
should be failures. What good can there be
in fellows who have not sense and self-preservation
enough to make somebodies of themselves
 in other words, to get on in the
world ? We are not successes, my uncle and
I ; were it otherwise, we should hardly be here

a couple of millionaires would not be at
the trouble of crossing the Atlantic on the
strength of an advertisement.'

He stopped ; and, very carefully extricating
Eugenia's dress from a bramble, went on :

Having come, we ought at least to tell
you who and what wee are. To begin with
my uncle, he is a nineteenth-century saint
for you, if any breathes ! Cross America by
one Pacific railway, re-cross it by the other,
and you won't find his match. But a dead
failure from his cradle ; and wherefore ?
Because he unluckily came into the world
hampered with a conscience. He is a preacher
by trade  did you guess it ?  and, as a
preacher, would have fattened and thriven,
but for that terrible business of a conscience.
He began  was ever such a piece of insanity ?
by preaching against slavery before the War
of Secession was thought of; and, of course,
that wouldn't do. They clasped him into
prison ; but no sooner was he out again than
he began preaching against fratricidal vars,
and, of course, was locked up again for that.

Then, when things were settled a bit, he must
needs take up the subject of political corruption.
Could madness go farther ? I assure
you, although he would never open his lips on
these matters, he has been almost as much of
a martyr as John Brown or Uncle Tom in
the lady's novel. He has just escaped St.
Lawrence's gridiron, and that is all.'

Meanwhile, one thought was uppermost in
Eugenia's generous mind ; one question was
on her lips she hesitated to utter. Did
poverty form part of this evil fortune ?
Would the money Mrs. de Eobert had to
give prove a real blessing to these two
wanderers ?

Is there a God of Suo-ness in the Roman
calendar V continued the Doctor. ' Was ever
any day dedicated to smooth-tongued slipperiness
and unctuous compliance ? If so, these
be my gods ; on their altars shall my incense
smoke. Henceforth, I will be warned by my
uncle's example, and sleek Prosperity shall be
my only fetish. Now, I ought to have succeeded
 got on in the world, as the phrase

goes  if ever any man did, especially in the
medical profession. Never so benignant, so
cheery a doctor ! Half the folks who came
to consult me I sent away, for the excellent
reason that they ailed nothing. Why should
people ever ail anything if they exercised as
much self-preservation as a hermit - crab 1
The other half I rated soundly for their impudence
in coming to me at all. What business
had they with their coughs, carbuncles,
disordered livers, dyspepsia, and the like ?
None whatever. Illness is just so much
wickedness ; disease but another name for
vice. If we are not punished for our own
sins, 'tis for those of our forefathers, which is
much the same thing. I gave it 'em soundly,
depend on it.'

You would hardly get rich on such a
practice as that Eugenia said, smiling.

I ought to have gilded my horse's oats
like Caligula, and sandwiches my bread with
bank-notes like blockade-runners in the last
war. But who was ever paid for speaking the
truth '? My professional earnings of a twelvemonth

came to how much, think you ? Just
enough money to cover the expense of pens,
ink, and paper used in prescriptions. Ah !
those prescriptions ! I should like you to
have seen some of them ! Drugs and nostrums
were left out altogether. The treatment I
applied was of another kind, and far less
acceptable, Well, I soon gave up physic as a
losing concern, and took to what is called ja.
professorial chair. That was hardly the thing
to answer in my case, either. My pathology,
you see, was so eccentric ; my pharmacopoeia
so revolutionary. Before I had thundered
forth anathemas on medical science as now
practised for the space of three months, I was
politely asked to resign. That check did not
abate my ardour. 1 said to myself there
were more ways than one of putting a truth
before the world. First catch your hare, as
the cookery-book says, and then proceed to
prepare it for table. We now set up a kind
of partnership, my uncle and myself, and our
first co-venture was a newspaper. I took in
hand the facts, my senior the morality department

; the business part of the concern was
left pretty much to look after itself. Of
course,, our newspaper was not to be like
other newspapers. News  in other words,
the vulgarities, trivialities, and common-places
chronicled elsewhere  we left out altogether.
We wanted not to tell people what their
neighbours were doing, but what they might
be doing themselves ; not what was going on
in the way of politics, theology, philanthropy,
and the like, but what ought to be going on.
In fact, our journal was a journal of Might's
 of notable Peri apses.'

Miss Ivory could not resist a laugh.

Did the paper pay V she asked.

Its success was brilliant  for exactly two
weeks. For three weeks it was tolerated.
At the end of that time no one would take a
copy, even gratis. Nothing so much of a drug
in the market as an idea. Of course you have
found that out honos aoo.'

And what was your next idea V she
asked.

Docs all this really interest you V he said,

looking at her suddenly with a penetrative
glance. He was evidently struck by her attitude.
She seemed to relish the narrative
keenly ; but was it so indeed ? Could it be ?
Could the experiences of two shabby, wayworn
strangers really absorb this beautiful,
high-spirited, much-admired girl ?

Her direct, artless answer reassured him.

Why should I pretend to be interested V
she replied, quite naturally. ' Pray go on.'

Evidently much gratified, the relator continued
:

Of late years, the rest of the Might-be's
have been joint concerns, my uncle furnishing
the soul, myself the sinews of the affair ; in
other words, I undertook the practical details,
he devoting himself to the theoretical. We
were of one mind. We wanted something in
the way of existence less cut and dry, less
hackneyed, less threadbare, than that with
which most people seem satisfied. Our beginnings
in this line were glorious. Had you
been in America at the time, you would have
heard our names noised abroad, I warrant you.

Our model society was pronounced to be a
foreshadowing of the millennium itself. Wc
began by ferreting out a few idealists like
ourselves, women as well as men, and very
charming companions they were. All would
have gone smoothly to this day but for one
trifling drawback. Sanctify labour by all
means. Cultivate the principle of social
equality at any cost. Deprave no fellow-creature
into a professional turnspit or
japanner. But what if ye have not so much
as a lean hen to pop into the pot ? AVhat if
the shoes of the community wear out, and
there is no money wherewith to buy leather ?
This soon came to be our predicament. We
found that, like the greedy old gods of old,
ideas had gobbled up their own children.
These co-workers with us in the good cause
were all rich in faith and hope only, poor in
material wealth as the Greek cynic whom
Charon bullied in vain for his fee of a penny.
I think I have now given you a very fair
notion of ourselves and our adventures. Whatever
we may not be, we are honest.'

There was a touch of wistfulness, rather
than regret, in his voice, as he uttered the
closing sentence, and once more he looked
earnestly at his fair listener.

They now found themselves on the breezy
ridge above the wood. A gate invites a halt,
and finding one here, they rested against it
before going back.

How sweet and peaceful the scene on which
they gazed ! They had their faces turned
from the bay, and looked on the sweet inland
landscape, broken heath in the foreground,
delicately empurpled as a plum ere yet its
bloom is swept off; beyond, meadows dotted
with kine, orchards and gardens from which
peeped many a house-top. The venerable
church-tower was also visible. A warm rosy
glow filled the heavens. Sweet scents of
honeysuckle and wild clematis reached them
where they stood.

I weill say so much for ourselves,' added
the speaker. ' We have never been envious ;
never wasted a regret upon the snug existence
of other folks. As to my uncle, he doesn't

know what self means. He is the most disinterested
mortal that ever breathed ; whilst,
for my own part, I have been a vagabond by
inclination, a ne'er-do-weel, a happy-go-lucky,
of my own free will  till now.'

He stopped short, and a strange expression
came into his face. The careless vivacity, the
easy self-assertion vanished ; instead might be
read deep feeling and passionate introspection.


My uncle has no need to regret that his
life must be pronounced a failure. He has
loved all women and been beloved in blameless,
sisterly fashion by not a few. Millions 
the most dazzling position  the applause of
the world  would hardly have made him
happier. My own case is wholly different. I
have hitherto laughed sentiment to scorn. I am
now justly punished. I have seen the woman
who makes me forswear my former creeds.
It is all of a piece,' he added, after a moment's
jause. ' Wherever I go, whatever fortunes
overtake me, I shall have the Lady of Hope-dale,
and the scenes through which she moves,

before my eyes. The picture is perfect. None
I have hitherto beheld are to be compared toit.
None I shall ever gaze on in the far
distant future will banish it from my
memory.'

Miss Ivory tried to smile away his seriousness,
but he insisted on being heard to the
end, and went on in the same tones :

This something to my advantage, forsooth
! Let it go ! What more do I want ?
"What else can heaven give me ? I came here
poor in many senses  above all, beggared in
one. Few men, I suppose, reach middle life
without succumbing to a beautiful impression
being wholly mastered by deep feeling.
Such, however, has been my own case. I now
go away rich, then, for I have at last learned
what it is to adore !'

Had we not better go back V said Miss
Ivory, as soon as she had recovered self-possession
enough to say anything.

He assented silently, and, as one in a
dream, retraced his steps by her side. The

NEXT OF K IS WANTED.

entire man seemed transformed by the mood
that had taken possession of him. No more
jests ; no more sharp sayings ; not a single
epigram dropped from his lips that evening.

THE WOODEN HORSE.

FEW days later the good folks of
Hopedale were in a state of the
greatest possible commotion.

It had already been noised abroad that
something was to happen ; in other words,
that the denouement of the little De Robert
drama was at hand. Divers rumours floated
in the air. A speedy transfer of the family
treasure would shortly take place under
strictest police supervision. The division of
the spoil would follow close upon the heels ot
this event, and what then ? Did Mrs. de
Robert and her beautiful companion really
intend, then, to quit Hopedale for once and for

VOL. II. 24

all ? The Wooden Horse, as it slowly rumbled
through the streets of Troy, excited hardly
more interest than the vehicle containing these
much-talked-of heirlooms. As the cumbersome
conveyance, in aspect not unlike a
prison van, moved slowly up the village street,
guarded by Mr. Rape, the local constable, all
windows were thrown wide, all faces were
agape.

The phenomenon, too, as in the case of the
Wooden Horse, announced without doubt the
close of a long drawn out series of events, the
final disposal of Mrs. de Robert's next of
kin, and the something they were to hear of
to their advantage. Speculation Alas first
busy as to the contents of that well-guarded
Yiin. Everybody had heard vaguely of the
works of art, the chased silver, the jewellery,
to be distributed among the lucky claimants ;
but, excepting Mr. Meridian, no outsider had
as yet been favoured with so much as a glimpse
of the treasures. It was, however, reported
abroad that before their ultimate dispersion
these rarities, owing to an obliging suggestion

of the Yicar, were really to be exposed to view.
In other words, the drawing-room at Hope-dale
was to be turned into a species of local
museum for the space of two days. Mr.
Meridian, quite naturally, did not wish his
parishioners to be deprived of such an opportunity
of improving their minds : pictures by
Murillo, Rubens and Teniers were not to be
seen every day. 

Besides the heirlooms proper, such as the
armour Adorn by heroic De Roberts at Poitiers
and Bosworth Field, the chased silver plate
more than once pledged for St. George and
Merry England, the jewels worn by fair ancestresses
at Court, there was a valuable collection
of miscellaneous antiquities, amassed by
the late Mr. de Robert himself It enchanted
the village folks to learn that these treasures
were to be exhibited for the public good, and
that before their final dispersion everybody
was to be gratified with a sight of them.
Everybody, moreover, was to be invited to a
soiree at the Manor House, given in honour of
these events.

242

The Wooden Horse  in other words, the
covered van piled to the roof  suggested all
kinds of pleasurable excitement. Next in
interest after the Wooden Horse came the
fate of the warriors. What would be the
final issue of this miniature siege of Troy ?
Was it to be a case of share and share alike,
or would one more fortunate than the rest
obtain the lion's share ? What with one
question and another, tiptoe curiosity and
liveliest interest were the order of the day at
Hopedale. No one had the remotest idea
what would be the end of the affair ; but end
it must somehow, and that soon.

Summer was on the wane, autumn Alas at
hand, and the claimants one and all began to
talk of departure. The priest might be said
already to have taken his departure from
Hopedale. He was paying short visits here
and there in that part of the country, appearing
at the Vicarage from time to time, and in
apostolic phrase charging Mr. Meridian at a
convenient time to call for him. Meantime,
Who so busy as Mrs. de Robert's faithful

henchman ? Touchy as she had ever been
regarding these next of kin, she bristled up
like a porcupine whenever their names were so
much as mentioned now.

Do as you please with the rubbish,' she
said, in allusion to the contents of the Wooden
Horse. ' Give it to knaves, fools or idiots 
throw it into the sea for aught I care ; only
don't let me hear another word about tete
business.'

Mr. Meridian and Eugenia therefore took
secret counsel together, and, in spite of some
drawbacks, well were these tete-astute interviews
relished by the Yicar. Lovers, at least
of his stamp, never lose patience ; and seeing
at last that Lewti was kind, he felt momentarily
hopeful. Her kindness might only
indicate contrition, perhaps mere pity ; it
heartened him for all that. The real sting of
these confidential talks was that they were
destined so soon to end.

Mrs. de Robert and Eugenia seemed determined
to quit Hoped ale, at least for a time,
and when she was once beyond reach, where

would be his prospect of success then ? The
more expeditious, too, his settlement of the
property, the sooner they would go aw a.}'.
Yet so long as the matter were allowed to
drag on, he was but keeping a rival in the
held. A rival, no doubt, this American
stranger was, perhaps with fewer chances of
winning the prize than himself; but a rival in
the field for all that. Vain the effort to shut
his eyes to the fact. The epigrammatic doctor
was over head and ears in love with Miss
Ivory. She would surely never dream of
marrying him ; but what if he prevented her
from marrying another ? Eugenia's friendliness
to the Curate was sufficiently irritating.
Her growing interest in this stranger seemed
little less than maddening.

Yes, the Derrobers must be got rid of at
any price.

This business was to the Yicar of Hopeless
a fit of sickness to some unhappy convict.
Convalescence in such a case means solitude,
hard fare, monotonous toil ; allies and pains,
on the contrary, go with comparative ease,

gentle treatment, recreation. One moment
recovery is ardently longed for, the next it is
as sincerely prayed against. Thus was it
with Mr. Meridian. Now he wanted this
precious business to drag on indefinitely, now
he wanted to get rid of it for once and for all.
The pangs of jealousy and the dreary void
suggested by Miss Ivory's departure alternately
kicked the beam. 
Eugenia could not help being kind to him
now. He was hardly what is called an
amiable man, but he had showed great willingness
to sacrifice himself for her sake : in
the first place, consenting to swallow the
Curate's affront ; in the second, doing everything
in his power to further her wishes, to
facilitate her departure. It was really much
more than good-natured, much more than
considerate, and Eugenia felt really grateful.
At the same time the sense of indebtedness
tormented and oppressed her.

So far all is settled then,' he said one
afternoon, at the close of a longer confabulation
than usual. ' Keep Mrs. de Robert to

her word, and a fortnight hence there will
be nothing to prevent you from going to
Bongo.'

The words so jestingly uttered nevertheless
betrayed an undercurrent of deep bitterness.
She began to feel ashamed of those harmless
dreams, and to ask herself if she ought not to
give them up in order to please others  that
is to say, Mr. Meridian.

With heightened colour and some temper,
she replied :

Have not all of us a Bongo ? Everybody
at some time or other, I am sure, must wish
to glance beyond one's own cabbage-beds.
Why should I be blamed for longing like a
child to go to the fair ?'

Nay, did I ever blame you ?' he said in a
quiet voice. * You misunderstand me  that
is all.'

Those proud cold words made matters worse
still. To Miss Ivory's impatient mood succeeded
a quick, generous revulsion of feeling.

You are very kind,* she answered, still
with heightened colour.

'Oh, for Heaven's sake, do not thank me!'
was all he said.

The little speech, no sooner spoken, was
repented of, and to this outburst of feeling
succeeded icy reserve and matter-of-fact
friendliness.

No one could be more impersonal than Mr.
Meridian when he chose, no one more disliked
the notion of unveiling his inner self to other?,
lout, constantly as he was thrown with
Eugenia now, reticence became impossible.
The fissure of the stranger, ever hovering in
the background, could not be got rid of anymore
than that of the Curate.

In the eyes of the world, his parishioners,
his friends, and his ]household, he was not in
the least changed. He went through thee
routine of daily duty with the same precision.
He shirked no disagreeable or agitating: encounter.
To outsiders he was affable, courtly,
and obliging as before. But all the Awhile a
tremendous struggle was taking place within.
He was wrestling with himself as men seldom
wrestle but once in a lifetime.

VISIONS OF HAKOUN EL EASCHID.

sabina and Prue sat busily darning
stockings when their host burst in
with the wonderful tidings. He
had just come from Hopedale, and in the
village street had encountered the unload on
its way to the Manor  in other words, the
Wooden Horse.

Have you heard of it?' he cried, throwing
off his hat and tumbling into an armchair,
heated and breathless. ' Thousands, tens of
thousands, hundreds of thousands of pounds'
Avorth of treasure awaiting distribution among;
you all at Hopedale this very moment.'

Sabina dropped her sock and took off her

spectacles, Prue laid down her stocking, and
both looked up with delight and bewilderment.


They were so happy under this friendly
roof, so thoroughly at home with the Curate
and his children, so much in love with this
verdant dale nestled beside the northern sea,
that they hardly wanted anything more to
happen at all.

The. much-speculated-upon, 
something to their advantage seemed already
a reality. Had they not both found
what they wanted  romance, new experiences,
new interests ? Whilst to Prue the sojourn
at Briardale had been richer in impressions
still. She loved the Curate, but so long as
they remained under the same roof it was a
love that made her happy.

Fetch me a glass of water, Georgie,' said
Mr. Bacchus, still gasping with the heat. He
always contrived to make his parochial rounds
and transact other business in the hottest part
of the day, and under the least comfortable
conditions.

Georgie was, however, amusing baby, so
Prue fetched, not ice-coil water, but a glass
of home-made lemonade.

Oh, dear !' cried the grateful Mr. Bacchus ;
how nice it is to be waited on and to get
always twice as much as you ask for. That
is my case since you ladies came, I am sure.
And there you are, both at it again ! Mending
the children's socks, which I used to have to
sit up at night to do before. It was something
to my advantage when I got out of bed
and let you in that night, and no mistake!
Well, now to tell yon the grand news.
A unload of treasure has just been conveyed
to Hopedale under an escort of mounted
police, and the distribution is really to take
place in a week's time. I wish I stood in
your shoes. The sweepings of that van would
just set me up for life!'

Oh! mayn't we just sweep it out with our
new broom, papa?' asked Georgie, his youthful
imagination tired by this highly-coloured account.


A\e may do whatever we like, provided Ave

don't object to being belaboured black and
blue by the police afterwards was the satisfactory
reply. ' Who could get all these
things together is a question that passes my
comprehension. Having got them, how anyone
could keep them is a matter that would
puzzle Solomon and the Seven Sages of antiquity.
Any addle pate can make a little
money. I dare say I could myself if I set to.
work about it. But to keep a crown-piece
when once lodged in your pocket ! That requires
the quintessence of wisdom. To go on
diamonds big as hailstones '

Gold plate enough to furnish the Lord
Mayor's table. Silver that would coin into
thousands and tens of thousands of shillings
'

And not one odd threepenny-piece for poor
me?' asked Georgie.

Don't interrupt,' Mr. Bacchus said. ' Let
]ne tell these ladies how rich they are going to
be. Now for the armour '

The bare mention acted like a galvanic
battery upon Georgie. Forgetting all about

baby on his lap, he sat holt upright,
staring at his father as if the glorious pageant
of Punch and Judy were being enacted before
his eyes.

Baby, meantime, not relishing such neglect,
set up a yell. Order had to be restored
before the Curate could proceed with his
narrative.

I can get over the jewels and the plate,'
he went on. ' Diamonds are tui]: out of mines
every day, and anybody dio has scraped
up money enough can eat off silver. But if I
live to be as old as the patriarchs, I shall
never understand how people can keep family
armour  coats of mail worn by their ancestors
at the Siege of Troy, and other great
battles downwards. With museums being
opened, too, in the remotest regions of the
earth, one suit alone, if advantageously disposed
of, would make one's fortune.'

Might you not fit one on, papa?' asked
the fascinated Georgie. ' I should like to see
you and Mr. Meridian armed cap-a-pie with
visors drawn, and javelins a yard long, rushing

at each other, like the knights in Mrs. Markham's
'' History of England " !'

Mr. Bacchus looked as if he should like it
uncommonly, too, bat once more bidding
Georgie not to interrupt, continued :

Then the pictures ! The Murillo itself must
be worth the whole village of Briardale put
together ; and the Titian, the Veronese, the
Last Suppers, St. Peter Martyrs, and Madonna
de San Sistos, I confess myself fairly beaten.
I give it up, ladies ; you must set to work
and imagine how rich you are going to be.
I protest I cannot do it for you.'

Sabina and Prue were contented to discern
a vestige of reality behind the glimmering
haze of the Curate's description. They knew
that he had spoken metaphorically, but that
the metaphors meant something; and as the
Vicar of Wakefield said, anything, even a
gross of green spectacles in chagrin cases,
was better than nothing at all. They were
alike prepared for the best or the worst.
Anyhow, no one could rob them of this
idyllic life at Briardale.

And when you get your great fortune,
what are you going to do with it ?'

This question was put by the Curate to
Prue later on. The children where out with
Jane. Sabina Alas in her room busily at Avork
upon her diary.

Binaa,' had said the ever-sapient Edwin, in
that immortal courtship, ' remember the wise
dictum of the ancients, " Nulla dies sine linea "
Xo day without its line. Whatever happens
or does not happen, put it down. A succinct
record of the day's proceedings and probabilities
affords the sure index of a methodical mind.'

The indefatigable little woman, partly on
Edwin's account, and partly on her own,
rigidly adhered to this precept, and her book
was a bulky affair. She put down everything,
whether it happened or whether it didn't, and
a diary is apt to take gigantic proportions
under such circumstances.

Prue and the Curate were alone when he
asked the suggestive question:

When you get your great fortune, what
are you going to do with it ?'

Prue always felt a feminine fluttering of the
heart when she found herself alone with Mr.
Bacchus. He was quite brother-like ; he had
never shown the slightest disposition to sentimentalize,
he treating her just as he treated
Sabina ; yet to Prue the Curate's presence
savoured of perpetual romance. His gaiety,
his bonhommie, even his boyishness, were very
enofaeringf to her. She would not have seen
him otherwise for the world.

Thus interrogated, she dropped her needlework,
and looked up with a blush and a smile.
In spite of silvery hairs mingled with the
brown, and lines of care, Prue had by no
means lost all outward charms. She was one
of those women who really never grow old,
and who, in a certain feminine sense, feel ever
girlish and dreamy.

What shall we do ?' she said, with a touch
of regret in her voice. ' Go home, I suppose,
and never see Briardale any more.'

I wish you would stay here the Curate
said bluntly. * Not if you really become rich
as Jews, of course. My humble quarters would

VOL. II. 25

not suit your ladyships then. You might carry
me away with you as your private chaplain
instead! But supposing you come off with
only a slice of the pudding  just a taste of the
goodies  why should you not stay ? I would
take a better house. We would go in for n
sort of partnership. I am sure we should all
live together as happily as the people in
Noah's ark.'

I am sure we should,' poor Prue said.

Two people can live cheaper than one, and
three cheaper than two,' Mr. Bacchus went on.
If you both consent, I will see about another
house at once. I assure you the thought of
spending the winter here alone drives me to
distraction.'

It must be lonely for you,' Prue put in,
with a strange sinking of the heart. She
began to foresee what was coming.

It is more than lonely, it is maddening,
and, I assure you, full of peril,' Mr. Bacchus
Event on, growing gloomy and desperate. ' If
I am left alone in this wilderness of temptation
I cannot answer for myself. You must

expect to hear the very worst of me. That is
the pass things have come to.'

Sabina and Prue had only heard vaguely
of the encounter between the rivals, but both
could see how it stood with the Vicar and the
Curate concerning the beautiful Miss Ivory.

If you go away you may any morning,
when glancing at the newspaper, find me
sentenced to penal servitude for life, or sons
worse,' the Curate continued. ' We
have patched up our quarrel, but nothing can
prevent the Vicar and myself from coming to
blows ultimately  about you know whom.'

Do you love her so very, very much,
then?' asked Prue, with tenderest insinuation.
The next best thing to having the Curate in
love with herself was to hear his confidence
about another.

Love !' cried Mr. Bacchus, firing up. ' I
attach no meaning whatever to that word, it is
too hackneyed. It does not meet my case in
the least. I am being slowly envenomed,
maddened, humanised  that is what I mean
by being in love.'

252

 And is there no hope for you V asked
Prue, her dovelike eyes brimming over With
fondest solicitude.

Exactly as much as there is for any 
at Piccadilly Circus. But there
is one comfort  at least, I feel it so. There
is no more chance for Mr. Meridian either.
If Miss Ivory ever said '* yes " to him, I should
be ready to make an end of the Vicar or
myself, or both.'

I hope not Prue said, her pious mind
shocked at such sentiments coming from the
lips of a clergyman. ' You would do nothing
wrong, I am sure.'

Don't be too sure,' the Curate replied.
 I sometimes feel capable of crimes that
would make your hair stand on end, and the
worst  or the best  of it is, that no deeds,
however desperate, would mend matters in the
least. If Miss Ivory had as many suitors as
Penelope, and I slew them all, like Ulysses,
what good would it do V

In spite of the exaggeration and bombast
of these speeches, it was easy to discern the

depth of passion underneath. To the Curate
a great grief or a painful discontentment came
as to a child. All the world must know, all
the Avorld must be in sympathy with him.

You see,' he went on, ' folks may say
Avhat they like. There is no one else, search
the world over, in the least like Miss Ivory:
so natural  in spite of beauty that would
turn any other g'lrVs head  so clever, and so
kind. She cannot bear to hurt the feelings
of a fly, and I am about of as much importance
as a fly in her eyes. If she were to smash me
against the window and have done with it, I
am sure I should be grateful. Things are not
even in this life : you must have noticed
that. If a man is without one thing, he is
Without a dozen. If he has a dozen things,
he is sure to have a hundred. There is no
law of compensation '

Prue again looked slightly reproachful, but
let him go on.

Now is there ?' asked Mr. Bacchus. ' I
ask you, is there any law of compensation ?
Take my own case. I am a half starved

Curate, eking out existence on a hundred a
year. A beautiful wife and a large fortune
Avould make up for everything. But I shall
never get one  I mean, I shall never get
Miss Ivory ! Then look at Mr. Meridian.
He enjoys every advantage life can give.
They say he is sure to be made a bishop one
day. He won't get Miss Ivory  the Lord
be praised !  but a dozen handsome girls with
fortunes, and I dare say titles, would have
him tomorrow if he asked them. Well, don't
let us harp any longer on these maddening
topics. It is quite settled, then. We are all
to keep house together.'

His attitude changed suddenly from morbid
depression and apathetic despair to alert cheerfulness.


Your fortune will permit of quite an
establishment. The first thing to see about,
therefore, is a suitable house. I have one
in my mind. Then we must look after cook,
parlour-maid, gardener, and the like. And
that reminds me. There is a tip-topping
cook just out of place at Holmdale. I

had better go and engage her for you at
once.'

Would it not be more prudent to wait a
little, till we see what we get?' Prue said
timidly.

You are sure, anyhow, to want a cook.
Still, the house is the most important question
to settle. If you don't mind putting on your
bonnet, we could go this very moment and
look at that pretty place with a lodge just
outside the village, now to let.'

There can be no harm in looking at it,'
Prue replied, delighted to see his changed
humour.

Then by all means let us go,' was the
eager reply. ' I know the agent, and a very
gentlemanly, pleasant fellow he is. He has
given me a lift in his gig many a time. A
hint from me, and I am sure he would keep
the place open for you.'

They set off, and the inspection proved
quite satisfactory. Had they built a house
for themselves, they could not have contrived
one more suitable and convenient, said the

Curate. The grounds were delightful, too ;
the boathouse and stabling all that could be
desired. Then there were reception-rooms,
and bedchamber sufficient for the accommodation
of a family-party twice as large as their
own  in fact, everything was in accordance
with an income of five thousand a year.

I have made up my mind that your share
will amount to that,' said the delighted Mr.
Bacchus. ' It really cannot be less. And if
wee get in at once, it would not be too late fora
garden-party, the very thing by way of
inauguration. I will write out a list of invitations
the first thing on reaching home.'

Pleased to see him pleased, poor Prue made
a show of enthusiasm, though her heart sank
within her. She was in the same predicament
as himself The visionary five thousand a
year touched her imagination coldly, but had
the Curate asked her to share his poverty 
ah ! that would have been rapture, something
to her advantage indeed.

MRS. DE ROBERT TAKES TO HER BED.

F the sight of the Wooden Horse
struck awe into the souls of the
beleaguered Trojans, still deeper
was the effect wrought on Mrs. de Robert's
mind by the van-load of treasure as, under
police escort, it slowly wound its way to the
Manor.

We are not told that the Trojans took to
their beds, but such was the plight to which
Mrs. de Robert was reduced by that portentous
spectacle. She had a way of taking to her
bed whenever things went wrong ; and a very
comfortable way it is for all concerned. If
we could all take to our beds till the moment

of perturbation is over  be it ill-temper, low
spirits, a worrying fit, or any other abnormal
humour  how much easier everyday life would
become ! As a rule, people nowadays do not
spend nearly enough time in bed. We air
our worries abroad too much. We are not
sufficiently ashamed of being uncomfortable.

Mrs. de Robert was certainly a superior
person in this respect. She did take pains to
keep out of ever? body's way when everybody
was odious to her  except Miss Ivory, of
course. Never was her belief in Eugenia
more delightful to witness than during these
crises. The young lady would straightway
don the most charming little bib and apron in
the world, and hover about the sick-room,
plying her patient with mutton-broth and
jelly  in fact, treating her exactly as if she
were suddenly stricken down with ague or
rheumatism.

Are you better, Roberta ?' she would say,
in a voice of affectionate solicitude. At the
same time she was not beguiled with the least
dissimulation. She never minced matters, or

called Mrs. de Robert's indisposition by fictitious
names. The bouts of ill-humour were
so many ailments, to be nursed, physicked,
and got rid of.

Just think !' Mrs. de Robert said, when the
sharpness of the attack had been in some
measure subdued by this judicious treatment;
these Murillo and curiosities might have
made a fine show for us at Bath or Brighton.
We could have given entertainments to all
the celebrities who visited the place. We
should have been so looked up to, so well
thought of!'

After all,' Eugenia said as she stood by
the sick-bed, gruel-basin in hand, ' we could
not have taken this van-load with us on our
travels. It is really a far greater worry to
have curiosities than not to have them You
can neither eat, drink, nor wear them ; but
there they are, filling up room, in everybody's
way, a perfect nuisance to housemaids.'

There is something in that, Eugenio,' was
the reply from the night capped patient
reposing in the curtained four-poster : ' and if

only decent folks had come after them, I
should have been the last person in the world
to utter a murmur. I wanted to be rid of
the rubbish. I wanted to be free to roam
about the world like Moll Flanders and
Peregrine Pickle. But to think that so much
as a farthing's worth of my poor Affie's property
should go to a rapscallion lot like this
a double-faced, thumb screwing Jesuit ; a
couple of Mormons with who knows how
many wives left at home ; and two cheese-paring
old maids. No, Iveyy ; I shall never
get over it as long as I live  never, never.'

In one sense you will get over it said the
ever-ready comforter. ' You won't have todo
it again.'

YoQ are right there,' Mrs. de Robert
replied, with more energy. ' Tell mr. Meridian
to make haste, then. Never, I do honestly
believe, was such a man for dawdling. The
things have come ; the people are here. Why
on earth should he shilly-shally in this
exasperating fashion ? He has had time to
settle the business a dozen times over.'

Who knows but that this delay may turnout
the greatest possible blessing ; at the
eleventh hour the very person you have
desired coming forward and claiming the property
!'

I wish he would, I am sure. Nothing
would please me better than to send these
people about their business. It would exactly
serve them right. What could that scatterbrain
 Lord forgive me !  what could my
poor darling have been thinking about when
he left me such a job as this ? True enough,
I proposed it myself. I thought it would
make him so comfortable in his grave. And
this worry is all I get for my pains.'

But a good deal of agreeable conversation:
you forget that,' put in Eugenia.

 Humph !' said Mrs. de Robert, with her
little rasping laugh. ' You would get agreeable
conversation out of a gate-post on those terms !
However, I am glad if the whole thing has
amused you, Jenny.'

Immensely !' Miss Ivory answered. ' I
can afford to like these good people, you see.

They have nothing to get out of me. I must
say I think them quite above the ordinary
run. There is the Jesuit father, for instance.
Put the thumbscrew, Galileo, and Joan of Arc
out of your mind, and can you imagine a
more entertaining:, delightful talker ! And so
distinguished  every inch a gentleman.'

He entertained me vastly before I knew
who he was, I must say,' Mrs. de Eobert
said.

And after all,' Miss Ivory added, pursuing:
her advantage. ' the thumbscrew, Galileo,
or Joan of Arc have nothing more to do
with him than you and I have to do with the
two little princes smothered in the Tower.
I don't suppose he would himself tread on a
worm.'

He seems a mild, kind-hearted, gentlemanly
old fellow, certainly,' was the reply.

As to his Jesuitical ways,* continued the
young lady, * there can be no real harm in
teaching poor savages to leave off eating each
other and cover their nakedness. At any rate,
they are no worse off than they were before.'

True enough that Mrs. de Robert said,
as she reposed on her pillows.

Then, again, supposing  I am only supposing
 that anybody gave him a beautiful
picture, say by Murillo or any other celebrated
painter. It seems to me the South
Sea Islanders want it much more than we
English people do.'

Poor innocents, yes,' was the answer.

And with regard to the two Mormons, as
you call them,' Miss Ivory went on, ' they seem
as good and kind as can be. If each has a dozen
wives and makes all happy, it surely speaks
volumes in their favour ! How many husbands
do not take the trouble even to please one!'

You are right there,' Mrs. de Robert cried,
quite cheerfully.

The fact of having no money, either, is
surely not to be assumed to their discredit,'
Eugenia added. ' We can never be sure how
people come by their large fortunes ; but one
thing we may be sure of  when we hind them
without, they are not living on fraud and
spoliation.'

On my word, that is just what I feel,'
Alas the answer. ' I was never fond of money-getting
folks myself. The pair of Yankees
are honest enough, I'll be bound.'

It is, on the whole, much pleasant to give
money or anything else to those who want it,
than to those who have too much already.
What would you have said at the sight of a
Frankfort Jew or a Levantine usurer V

I believe it would have been the death
of me. I always hoped poor dear Affie's
property would comfort some poor soul in
distress.'

AYhich it certainly will do,' Eugenia said
coolly. ' A fourth part, a sixth of the moneys
will be comparative wealth to the two ladies ;
whilst the rest equally divided '

Don't talk of it,' Mrs. de Robert said.
I'm like the folks Who like to fancy themselves
a-dying. Ashen there seems any chance
of it, they would take all the drugs in an
apothecary's shop to get well again. Oh
dear, oh dear! why can't people take their
belongings with them? Who Avould have

thought Affie's whim would prove such a
plague to me ?'

You will be better soon,' Eugenia said
soothingly. ' And the sooner the better 
for me.'

Yes, I want to get well for your sake,
Jenny. We'll be gadding about then somewhere.
But here I am, easy and comfortable
in my bed, and here I mean to stay till the
business is over.' 

Will you have a cup of arrowroot by-and-by
?' asked Eugenia, with fond solicitude ;
or a little tea and toast ? that, I think,
would not hurt you.'

Just what you please. Give me anything
you like,' Mrs. de Robert said ; ' only don't let
Mr. Meridian come to bother me.'

He shall bother me instead,' was the
suave reply; ' and of course, Robert, he won't
expect to see you till you are well enough to
be downstairs again. Even Mr. Meridian
would not ask an audience of you in your
night-cap!'

I shan't go downstairs till the van-load is

VOL. II. 26

unpacked, and the people sent about their
business said the invalid, turning her head
on the pillow for a comfortable nap.

Miss Ivory, perceiving the Vicar at the
garden-gate, hastened downstairs just as she
was  and well did that pretty white nursing-apron
become her.

'How is Mrs. de Robert this afternoon?'
asked the visitor, in the most matter-of-fact
wa'.

Father better, thank you,' Eugenia replied,
as gravely as possible.

It was not the first occasion on which the
Vicar had made such inquiries. Mrs. de
Robert's singularities were tolerably familiar
to him by this time, and he humoured them,
or at any rate ignored them, v/hen politeness
required. An old writer defines a philosopher
as what is meant by a gentleman, and certainly
there is a kind of philosophy which may
better be described as good manners than anything
else.

'Will she be downstairs tomorrow, think
you ?' again he asked.

I fear not; but it depends upon circumstances.
When is the unpacking to begin V

The Vicar looked at Eugenia. Eugenia
looked at the Yicar.

Not till the last moment,' he said ;
adding mysteriously : ' You don't suppose,
do you, that Mrs. de Robert would part with
any of her treasures after having once more
enjoyed the sight of them ? They must be
kept out of her sight  spirited away. But
I have arranged everything. Trust to my
management.'

If you cannot manage the business, no one
can ; and I am sure you will satisfy everybody,'
said Eugenia.

 The question  from Mrs. de Robert's point
of view, at least  is not to satisfy these good
people, but to get rid of them,' the Yicar
said, with a touch of malicious satisfaction,
the image of the epigrammatic Doctor
rising before him. ' And got rid of they shall
be. I promise that. Before another week
is over, not a fraction of the treasure, nota
claimant, shall be left in the place.'

262

Unless others appear at the eleventh
hour ?'

I have provided against that emergency
was the prompt reply. ' One sixth part is to
be retained for a certain period in case of
such tardy applications being made. Failing
this, it will be divided among the rest

 And is the money to be equally portioned
out ?' asked Miss Ivory, sympathetically
anxious.

You will see when the time comes,' he
said, in the same quick, decided tones. 'As
Mrs. de Eobert has now left every detail tome,
it is advisable to keep my own counsel.
Were you put in possession of my programme
she would ferret it out, and insist on interfering
at the eleventh hour. The entire
business would then have to be begun over
again. But do persuade her to show herself
at the ceremony of distribution. Otherwise
it will be seen that she really begrudges the
gifts.'

Eugenia did not look very hopeful on that
score.

After all,' the Vicar said, as if a sudden
thought had struck lira, ' it really does not
much matter. Let her stay in bed, then,
till the dreadful transaction is over. Let
her do exactly as she pleases. Indeed, my
errand now was with yourself rather than
with her. What I wanted to say was this.
You are virtually the lady of the house ; you
are the real mistress here. You hinted the
other day at something in the shape of an
entertainment to close up the proceedings ?'

Mrs. de Robert should surely show her
relations a little hospitality before final departure
V Eugenia said.

By all means. I quite approve of the
notion. Make your own arrangements, then,
and I will do my best to help you,' the
Aicar replied cheerfully and pleasantly.

These repeated interviews with Eugenia
might result in nothing, but they made him
feel cheerful and pleasant at the time. Her
friendliness was perhaps no more meant
especially for him than the sunshine ; for all
that, like the sunshine, it warmed his heart.

As usual, he had a little passage of arms
with her before parting.

You might do worse than turn yourself
into a hospital nurse he said, looking at
the white bib apron. ' Such an example
would prove contagious. You would thus
become heroic vicariously, as well as in the
fact.'

She laid aside her apron somewhat sadly.
The sarcasm jarred.

I suppose I am like a good many other
women,' she replied. ' I would be heroic if I
could.'

He also became suddenly serious.

You cannot say that you have no chances
in that line,' he said, for the life of him
unable to keep silent. ' What truer heroism
than to sacrifice one's own happiness for
that of another ? Such an opportunity, at
least, is yours.'

DIPLOMACY. 

T may readily be supposed that the
police-escorted van exhilarated all
concerned but Mrs. de Robert.
Sabines gentle hopes, Prue's meek anticipations,
were, however, all outdone by the enthusiasm
of their partners in good fortune.
The behaviour of the good Priest was consistent.
Having made up his mind to obtain
possession of the Murillo and a certain pair of
branched silver candlesticks he had heard of,
he quietly set to work to talk Mr. Meridian
over. Every day for the space of a week he
paid a little visit to the Vicarage in order to
continue negotiation?. The discussion began

and ended with the Murillo and the silver
candlesticks, no other topics appearing of
sufficient importance to be even mooted. To
compare small things with great, those daily
conversations were like the historic wrangle of
Tiers and Bismarck over Strasbourg and
Metz. Which of the two would win his
cause ? What would be the fate of Strasbourg
and Metz  in other words, of the Murillo and
the silver candlesticks ?

The Yicar was a deep man, and more thana
match for the most Jesuitical Jesuit going.
There was, indeed, a considerable leaven of the
Jesuit in his composition. It was not in the
least difficult to him to conceal his thoughts,
except when with the distracting Miss Ivory;
and over his tongue, also, he exercised easy
sway. If he did not wish to disclose any
especial fact, no one on earth could make him
disclose it. Thus the reverend father was
always received in the most cordial, conciliatory
spirit, and always heard with extreme
deference, but he never got an inch nearer the
truth.

So instructive were the long talks on Spanish
art that Mr. Meridian ought to have admitted
the more artistic of his parishioners to hear
them. He was himself a man of wide reading,
also a traveller; in this especial field, however,
neither knowledge nor experience could bear
comparison with those of his visitor. He
had never set foot on Spanish soil, and who
can speak authoritatively of Murillo without
a journey to Seville ?

The Priest was fresh from a residence in
Spain. He had every particular concerning
the Spanish master  bibliographical, historic,
statistical  sat his fingers' ends, so that his
discourses abounded With knowledge. Very
dexterously and plausibly he allowed the main
point  in other words, the ultimate fate of Mrs.
de Robert's great canvas  to remain wholly
in the background. In glowing terms he
descanted upon the characteristics of the
painter, the merits of this masterpiece and
that; in fine, he spoke so learnedly and feelingly
that Mr. Meridian, or anyone else interested
in the subject, could have listened to

him all day long. The perusal of a dozen
works on art in general, or on Murillo in particular,
would not have instructed him in anything
like the same degree. Then he brought
prints and photographs to help out his descriptions,
till Seville and its pictorial treasures
seemed to rise before the listener. Touchingly
insinuative, too, he would recall laborious days
spent by himself milder the warm Andalusian
heavens; dwell upon the consolations that
beauty, alike natural and ideal, had afforded
him; and with tears in his eyes describe some
especial mood of religious fervour, when, kneeling
in rapt ecstasy at the foot of a Murillo.
heaven itself had seemed to open to his
vision.

I assure you, my dear sir,' he said one day,
after an unusually long and agreeable sitting,
the deep interest I take in this family heirloom,
and the positive rapture with which the
bare possibility of possessing it fills my heart,
are beyond my power to describe. Possessing
it, did I say? You and I, priest and priest,
may well disclaim motives that do no dishonour

to other men. We covet, but not for
ourselves, not for earthly children, living testimonies
of fireside love and joy ; instead, for
those helpless and nameless ones who may be
classed under one general head  the orphanhood
of humanity. You are at one with me
here, and, indeed, on how many other vital
questions ! The partition wall that divides us

is thin indeed ! You can realize the ardent,


nay, painful craving I feel for this treasure ;

yet, after all, what matters its destination,
provided it adorns some building consecrated
to God; provided it brings the callous to their
knees, the carnal minded to penitence ! Never
was enthusiasm more needed ; never genius
more in request as a ministrant of religion
than in these days. I beseech you, therefore,
whatever you do, let not your Murillo fall
into worldly hands ; let it not furnish vain
gratification to the sensual and the self-indulgent,
prove one drop more in the cup
already brimful of luxury and mammon.'

This eloquent appeal, like the rest of its
predecessors, left the matter very much where

it was ; and at the close of the seven days*
parley, the discouraged father felt no surer of
obtaining his end than at the beginning. It
really seemed to him that Mr. Meridian
wanted the Murillo and the candlesticks for
himself. Such might reasonably be the case,
supposing a claim of kinship could be put in.
The Vicar of Hopedale was inclined to High
Church doctrines ; candles had appeared long
ao-o on the altars of neighbouring churches 
any Sunday the same innovation might greet
the eye of Hopedale folk.

Nevertheless, the Priest did not relax his
efforts. The visits went on, the parleying
went on ; and but for the decisive day at
hand, it seemed as if they might go on forever.


The other claimants held modestly aloof,
Mr. Meridian being wholly unmolested as far
as the quartette were concerned. Truth to
tell, the whole affair no" wore a different
aspect in the eyes of nephew and uncle. It
was less the much-dreamed-of heritage they
aspired after, than the hand of the incomparable

Miss Ivory. Unselfish here, as under
all other circumstances and conditions, the elder
Derrober entered heart and soul into the feelings
of the younger. Material interests were
merged in questions of far deeper import, or
only dwelt upon as they might affect them.
Would Miss Ivory dream for a moment of
accepting a man who had nothing but himself
to offer? The two discussed the subject as
untiringly as the father and Mr. Meridian
had talked over the Murillo and the silver
candlesticks.

It was highly characteristic of the pair that
they should thus lose sight of worldly
aggrandizement for the hundredth time in
life ; shut their eyes to the something they
might hear of to their advantage.

Whilst the reverend father insinuated,
harangued, coaxed, and the ladies laid bare
their circumstances in every particular, these
two remained proudly reticent. Like Jason,
they had come in search of the Golden Fleece;
but having come, were at no pains to slay the
dragon. Even their schemes for the remodelling

of society were now in abeyance, the
Phalanstery eclipsed, the Golden Age lying
before us forgotten.

'I'll tell you what, nephew,' said Mr.
Derrober, with a look of conscious sagacity,
much as if he considered himself the personification
of worldly wisdom, just indeed what
he Alas not. ' I'll tell you the long and the
short of it, my boy. There is but one way
for an honest man to deal with a true woman.
Speak out.'

The Doctor, who possessed plenty of wisdom,
but rather that of Rabelais than of
Poor Richard, pondered before making reply.
When he did speak, it was hardly to cut the
Gordian knot.

My respected uncle,' he said, arching his
eyebrows,  now, do tell me, are you a prehistoric
lake-dweller come to life again, or a
vivified citizen of the age of bronze ? You
speak like these. Don't you know that the
woman of the olden time is a survival  a
heroine obsolete as Lot's wife? The course
you propose might have answered when the

world was in its bib and pinafore ; but times
have changed since then, and woman too.
The nineteenth-century paragon is a very
complex creature, no more to be compared to
her forerunner than the vertebrate to the jellyfish.'


Miss Ivory is not a bit of a blue-stocking,'
replied the other comfortably.

Oh, as if logarithms and the Greek particle
had anything to do with it ! Aptitudes
and superiorities are born with us, in
the blood. We suck 'em in with mother's
milk.'

But you are a man of no mean parts,
Frank. You have as much knowledge and
experience as most of your fellows. No
woman need be ashamed of you when you
open your lips, I am sure.'

The Doctor shook his head.

My good sir, just put my parts in the
scales with Miss Ivory's aspirations, and see
which would kick the beam. I feel sure of it ;
a girl of her spirit and character has horizons
wide as those of an Alpine panorama.

Nothing short of a career would satisfy
her.'

When did honest, faithful love fail to
satisfy a woman ?' said the elder.

Back to the cave you issued from, with
your flint carving-knives and mammoth-bones !
My respected uncle, you are a hundred, hundreds
of years behind your time. Don't you
know that love, as you call it, is as completely
out of date as troubadours and Court-fools ?
Instead of seeking leafy solitudes and haunts
of the nightingale, lovers nowadays solve
algebraic problems in company, or get up
statistics of crime by way of courtship. This
finished creature wants worthy surroundings.
The frame must match the picture. She
should marry a man of means.'

She has, doubtless, an ample fortune of her
own,' said the elder, after a pause. ' And you
are pretty sure to get something from our kinswoman.
Women, moreover, are very generous
Ashen they have once given their affections.
And'  here he hesitated, and got out, with
much feeling and a touch of sadness  ' if,

indeed, things turn out well for you, my lad, we
will let other considerations go, and leave the
betterment of the world to your children.
What's mine is yours, you know. 'Tis little
enough an old fellow like myself wants when
once he parts company with schemes for benefiting
humanity.'

The Doctor might have passed for a man
without feelings, so skilfully did he conceal
them now. The eyes of the other, however,
filled with tears as he replied, for he knew
well that the words came from the depth of
his heart.

Tush, tush!' he said; 'you ought to be
ashamed of yourself to put such base thoughts
into my head. Why, to deprive you of
pocket-money for turning the world topsy-turvy
would be about as inhuman as to bury
you alive. No, old curmudgeon! you shall
ride y our 1 hobby-horses like a prince yet; and
I'll ride with you when this last has kicked
me off. It may not be written in the stars
that Miss Ivory is to marry the Honour-vol.

II. 27

able and Reverend Mr. Meridian, and indue
time become a bishop's lady. But she
will never marry Frank Derrober, that's positive.'


Not unless Frank Derrober ask her said
the other gently.

Now, sir, did you ever ask a woman and
get a refusal ? Answer me.'

I have gone through an ordeal more painful
still. I have been asked by a noble
woman, and had to refuse her.'

Why could you not accept ?' asked the
Doctor, evidently pondering on the matter.
The reply came after some hesitation.

She was rich. I had not a dollar to
call my own. I felt that I should be
weighed down by a sense of perpetual obligation.'


Humph ! the moral is a propos,' the Doctor
said drily.

By no means. My case differed essentially
from your own. I was not in love.'

'Well,' replied the other more cheerfully,
we'll see. I may feel quite differently this

day se'nnight. Five thousand pounds before
now have worked miracles. Ten have all but
made the sun stand still. Twenty might turn
me into a proper gentleman, a presentable
character. And mighty pleasant such a condition
of expectancy. But for glorious hopes,
like these, soap-bubbles that burst, who
would give a jack straw for this paltry
life!'

With that philosophic reflection the Doctor
left off talking about Miss Ivory, which was
not quite the same thing as to leave off thinking
about her. That would indeed have been
difficult just now. Every day they met, and
every day under circumstances that rendered
her more adorable. Eugenia was, indeed, doing
her utmost to atone for Mrs. de Robert's
unfriendly attitude. Perhaps grave doubts
assailed her as to the final issue of this
business.

She could never feel quite sure of her old
friend when it came to a crisis. So as the
Doctor's behaviour was circumspection itself,
after the half-confession of a few days back,

272

NEXT OF KIN WANTED.

and as his conversation was livelier and
more engaging than ever, she performed her
duties of hostess, and yielded freely to the
charm.

MRS. DE ROBERT S HOBGOBLINS.

S the eventful day drew near, Mrs. de
Robert's illness took an aggravated
form. She certainly did not as yet
refuse nourishment, or manifest any of those
grave symptoms that alarm anxious relations.
Her condition, whilst not dangerous, was
nevertheless as bad as well could be. Miss
Ivory, serenity itself, betrayed nothing in
the sick-room, but out of it could not conceal
her uneasiness. What if at the eleventh
hour a stop should be put to all proceedings ?
what if, after all, the unhappy questions after
something to their advantage should be sent
away empty-handed and resentful ? Hitherto

she bad scouted such a notion when suggested
to her by the Yicar. Now she felt obliged to
acknowledge the same ground for apprehension
; and the provoking part of the business
was that Mr. Meridian seemed to have turned
round. He would go his own way, turning a
deaf ear to her misgivings.

Was it  no, she would not, could not believe
this of Mr. Meridian  yet the question would
arise, was it that he was thus pursuing his
way bent on mischief ? Long ago he had foretold
a dismal fiasco to the little drama. Was
he well pleased to have his words made good ?
The next moment she reproached herself for
the unworthy suspicion. He was outwardly
cold, a trifle hard, and given to self-estimation ;
he was, for all that, incapable of double-dealing.
She felt it, nevertheless, her duty to warn
him.

If Mrs. de Robert refuses to divide the
property among her friends, I shall feel I
ought to give them mine!' she said, with
heightened colour, and almost with tears of
vexation. ' Think of the distance they have

come, the hopes they have been allowed to
cherish for so long ; the boon, too, that anything
in the shape of fortune would leto
all.'

He looked at her with an odd provocative
smile. Aras not this attitude of a piece with
the inconsequence of womankind ? Hitherto,
who so confident as herself, who so deaf to his
hints of a catastrophe? Now he supposed
just out of contrariety, and from a spirit of contradiction,
she was ready to cry with dismay.

'You shall be under no necessity of bestowing
your fortune ' ' even upon the epigrammatic
Doctor,' was on his lips; he refrained,
and added, ' whatever you may do of your own
free will. I flatter myself my strategy is
more than a match for our old friend's temper.
Besides, she has virtually handed over the
property in trust to me. Am I likely to surrender
it?'

Miss Ivory did not look quite reassured.

He went on, still quite confident:

For diseases like this of Mrs. de Eobert, Ave
must have recourse to drastic remedies. She

has laid upon me a duty; that duty I shall
discharge, no matter what obstacles she may
put in my way.'

It is not so much the money that her mind
harps upon,' Eugenia said, still unconvinced and
uneasy. ' She has enough and to spare of her
own. But I am sorry she ever promised to
transfer her family heirlooms during her lifetime.
She seems to cling to them now.'

She cannot very will carry them to that
paradise in Central Africa you intend to visit 
to Bongo,' Mr. Meridian said jestingly. ' You
would both certainly be murdered for sake
of the spoil  which I wonder you are not
here, by the way. Does not the thought of
harbouring so much treasure prevent you from
sleeping ?'

Eugenia was ruffled and vexed. The Vicar's
banter jarred just then.

I wish I had nothing else to keep me
awake,' she answered with pique. ' However,
as you can move mountains, and cause rivers
to flow backwards, I ought to feel ashamed of
myself for being uneasy at all. So, then I may

cast my fears to the winds. To-morrow you
will conjure Mrs. che Robert out of her bed,
23ut her in the best possible humour, and
dismiss the claimants, one and all, enriched
and delighted?'

Yes, I think I can promise you so much,'
he replied coolly. ' I fear yours is but an
uncomfortable time of it in our old friend's
room. This perpetual hankering after the
impossible must try your nerves ;' and, ashe
said this, he looked at her kindly and
anxiously.

I know Mrs. de Eobert too well to take
her humours to heart,' Eugenia answered ;
and it is ever other people she finds fault
with, not myself

That is an element of comfort, certainly.
I dare say I come in for my full share of
abuse. However, Mrs. de Robert and I understand
each other pretty well by this time;
and let her say what she will, we are fast
friends at bottom. Well, present my gift, and
say I hope she will be feeling well enough to
join us in the morning.'

Mr. Meridian had brought the invalid some
luscious figs the choicest product of his
garden. Daintily cradled in leaves, and placed
in a pretty rustic basket, the offering looked
the most appetizing imaginable.

Only look at what Mr. Meridian has sent
you!' Eugenia said cheerfully as she entered
the sick-room, basket in hand.  Did you ever
behold more delicious figs?'

Mrs. de Robert sat up in bed and eyed the
Vicar's offering with ill-concealed satisfaction.
She was bound to feel displeased at everything,
but she adored green figs.

'Humph!' she said. ' 'Tis a pity he didn't
put a viper inside. 'T would have come in
handy, for I feel just ready to make away
with myself.'

You will eat a g, nevertheless,' said
Eugenia gravely, as she picked out the largest
and ripest.

'Oh, Iveyyyy! Iveyyyy!' cried Mrs de Robert,
what an arrant fool I have been ! If you
could see the fruit-basket of frosted silver
packed up in one of those cases, you would

feel, like me, ready to cry your eyes out.
'Tis a little gem, so chaste, so elegant, you
would see nothing prettier on her Majesty's
table.'

Never mind, Roberta ; Ave will buy some
antique silver, you and I between us. And
just think of the pleasure of having and using
what is our very own !'

I'm miohtv clad I told Affie I should
keep the things on the sideboard  the tea-service
and snuffers,' Mrs. de Robert went on
maliciously. ' I shall keep a thing cr two
more, in spite of Mr. Meridian. See if I don't !
He is not going to have it all his own way
this time.'

She took another morsel of her-g, and
continued almost in a whisper :

'Tis all very well to prate about deathbed
promises, and the like. But whatever I
promised my poor darling  ah, one must die
to be a darling ! I am always saying that 
whatever I promised my poor darling, nothing-was
said as to time. I was free to use the
things and enjoy the things as long as I

pleased. What he cared about was that one
of his family should possess them ultimately.
Xow, Eugenio, I'm not going to be unhandsome
; I'm not going to distribute soup-tickets,
and then turn a host of starving-creatures
from my door. Oh no ; I'll be
square, as true as my name is Sarah Roberts !
]3ut just put your ear down, Iveyy. I really
can't part with the things in the cases yet 
the Murilly and the silver basket, and suchlike.
It makes me bad to think of it. I
shall just stay patiently in my bed till I hear
the carpenters at work below, and then I shall
go downstairs and plump myself on the first
case they attempt to meddle wdtli ; and that's
what I mean to do, and no one on earth shall
prevent me!'

Miss Ivory said nothing, but her look dis-commended.
The bare notion of such a
scandal shocked her inexpressibly. The scene
rose before her mind's eye : Mr. Meridian presiding,
the happy claimants blissful and expectant;
and rushing into their midst, dashing-all
hopes to the ground, the wild figure of

Mrs. de Robert in dressing-gown and nightcap.
She was capable of carrying out her
threat, and something more.

You have never seen the things, or you
would feel as I do Mrs. de Robert went on
insinuatingly. ' It would take me a week to
describe 'em. You see, they are not all family
belongings. My poor Affie had a craze for
Apostle spoons and George the Third teapots,
and whatever he could lay hands on he marked'
with the flew de Us. 'Tis all of a piece, he
would say; and so long as it has belonged to
one of the name, 'twill answer the same purpose
as if it had descended from generation to
generation. Oh, Why did he not marry me
when I was a younger woman ! I've no fondness
for babies, nasty squalling brats  poor
dear innocents ! But you know what I
mean. Had poor Affie had a child of his own,
all this botheration would have been spared me.
I might have enjoyed the things in peace.*

AVell,' Eugenia said cheerfully, ' as you
cannot enjoy them in peace, it will be much
better to have them out of your sight.*

'But to think that the Murilly and the
silver candlesticks will go to the Pope and the
Inquisition, as I am sure they will I Mr.
Meridian is mum; and when he chooses to be
mum, you might as well shake an empty sack
expecting potatoes to drop out, as try to get
a scrap of information out of him. He's a
Jesuit in disguise himself, I'll be bound.
That's what all our clergy are coming to.
Then to think of these Mormons. Next to
a thumb screwing Jesuit, I do think the
person I most detest is a man with seven
wives.'

Nay,' Miss Ivory remonstrated very justly;
it seems that neither of these gentlemen
possesses one wife, much less seven.'

Oh, what won't men say to make their
story good ! There is something wrong about
them, or they would never have crossed the
Atlantic on such an errand as this. If not
Mormons, be sure they are Fenians in disguise,
sent over to assassinate the Queen, or blow up
the House of Commons. They have a mighty
evil look, I can tell you; and we may say

what we like, but it's not genteel to be poor
never was. Hark ! was not that a carpenter's
tap ?'

'It is only the cook undoing a case of
wine. We had none in the house, so I
ordered some.'

Are you quite sure ?' Mrs. de Robert
said, sitting up in her bed and listening
attentively.

Quite positive. Indeed, Mr. Meridian has
the key of the lumber-room with him at the
Vicarage.'

That answer seemed to reassure the patient.
She settled herself once more comfortably on
her pillows.

The sound of a hammer on these cases
would be as bad as if I heard nails being
driven into my own coffin,' she said. ' Worse,
I do think. But when tomorrow comes, you
will see, I shall do as I say. I'm not going
to have poor dear Affie's silver made into
graven images for Papists to worship, nor
pay the expenses of a second gunpowder plot.
As to the two harmless old maids, I bear

them no malice. They are as good as myself,
and a trifle better, I dare say. Mr. Meridian
may give them just Whatever he pleases.
But it is of no use. Their names will die
with them. Like me, they are but a couple
of leafless boughs. Humph ! these figs are
first-rate. The Yicar is lastly civil on a
sudden.'

Meantime all was bustle and preparation in
the lower regions of the Manor House. Not
only was wine being unpacked, but preparations
for the more substantial part of the
banquet were carried on with the greatest
possible alacrity. Here Miss Ivory determined,
at least, there should be no disenchantment.
However disastrously Mrs. de Robert
might interfere with the rest of the programme,
her reputation for hospitality should not be
allowed to suffer.

Like all girls of spirit, Miss Ivory delighted
in flutter and excitement. Xo sooner was
Mrs. de Eobert in a comfortable drowse than
she flew to the pantry or the kitchen, donned
her housekeeping apron, and was forthwith

immersed in business. With the utmost
relish she lent a helping hand to this one
and that. Now she aided Lucy, the housemaid,
to rub up glass and china. Now she
whisked up syllabub or strained jelly, and
all with a lightheartedness and ease that
made such an auxiliary delightful to the
servants.

Oh, Sarah !' she said to the homely North-country
woman who officiated as cook; 'how
pleasant to have the house for once turned
upside down ! Why do people lead such dull,
monotonous lives, when they might be bustling
about like the show-folks getting ready
for the fair ?'

Miss, as if I could answer such a question
as that! You must go to the Scriptures,'
was Sarah's cautious reply.

'Will the syllabus be just perfection, thmk
you?' again asked the young lady.

Sure, miss, that is a bit meddlesome too.
We does our best; but in small things
as well as great, the Lord rideth the whirlwind.'


VOL. II. 28

NEXT OF KIN WANTED.

You mean that a thunderstorm to-night
might turn the syllabub?' asked Miss Ivory
anxiously.

Lord, miss ! That is what I ought to
have meant, of course. But those who quote
Scripture have said their say.'

MRS. DE ROBERTS VOYAGE OF Discovery

RS. DE ROBERT'S sleep was broken
and uneasy that night. Again and
again she woke up haunted by the
sound of imaginary hammers. Another kind
of nightmare that tormented her was a visionary
encounter with the Yicar and the claimants.
He had laid violent hands on the Murilly, the
Jesuit aided and abetted, the Americans
harangued, the ladies wept, and all was direst
commotion. As soon as day began to break,
she stole noiselessly out of bed, watched, and
listened. All was hushed and silent. Evidently
not a soul stirred. Miss Ivory slept in
the next room, and not for worlds would

282

she disturb her, but this suspense could be
endured no longer.

Mrs. de Eobert wanted to forestall ]\[r.
Meridian, and also curiosity burned within
her as to what that clever Eugenio had been
about these last few days. She knew
that nothing delighted Iveyy so much as to
turn the house topsy-turvy when she had a
chance, and she felt sure that the delightful
process had just been carried out with a
vengeance. So, in night-cap and dressing-gown,
tip-toe with expectation, Mrs. de Robert
set forth on her prowl.

Hardly out of her bedroom, she stood still,
dumfounded. The landing-place was transformed
as if by magic. Tropical plants and
flowers filled the large bay-windows ; the well-worn
stair-carpet was replaced by bright
crimson baize. At intervals were placed
baskets of ferns and begonias, whilst wax-lights
in abundance occupied temporary brackets on
the walls.

Mrs. de Eobert made an odd grimace,
divining Eugenia's little plot in a moment.

The monkey, thought Mrs. de Eobert ; she has
invited the neighbours to a dance !

She continued her survey, sniffing surprise
as she went. True enough, the drawing-room
had been cleared for dancing, and was as
festive as wreaths and garlands could make it.
In the dining-room preparations were far
advanced for the supper. Two long tables
covered with finest damask, showed a glittering
display of plate and crystal. Only the
cut flowers and the regales were as yet
wanting.

Humph !' said Mrs. de Eobert to herself.
Tis mighty clever of Iveyy to make everything
look so nice, I must say that ; and now
let us see what she is going to give her visitors
to eat.'

She paused and listened. All remained still
as before. Not a soul was astir. Then confidently,
and with a look of extreme relish, she
made her way to Eugenia's pantry. Here,
indeed, was a sight to awaken enthusiasm in
the mind of the least epicurean ; but Mrs.
de Eobert had an uncommon liking; for ballroom

cates. Raised pies, whip-syllabus and
strawberry-creams ever put her in good
temper.

When she glanced round at the tempting
array of dishes, she quite forgot the mental
disturbance f the last few days, as well as
the nightmare from which she had just
awakened, and complacently sat down to
a little meal. The confinement to her room
had ended in giving her an appetite. She
could perhaps have eaten everyday fare in bed,
had she tried. But she ever put a check
upon her appetite during these attacks.
Broth and gruel seemed more in accordance
with the fitness of things.

But the revulsion of feeling now brought
about, her amusement at the scale of Eugenia's
preparations, above all the sight of a certain
favourite dish, made her positively
hungry. Having once more listened and
assured herself that she was quite safe from
observation, she whipped up a spoon, and
with infinite relish attacked a dish of French
flummery.

' Jenny will wonder what thief has been
in her pantry,' she thought, chuckling over
the escapade ; ' well,' smacking her lips,
there is plenty for folks to eat without the
French flummery. 'Tis mighty good, I must
say ; just as we used to make it at home fifty
years ago. Dear, how hungry I am, to be
sure ! I wonder if I can lay my hands on
anything in the bread or biscuit way.'

She looked about, and succeeded in finding
some old-fashioned, home-made rusks, that
tasted uncommonly good with the flummery.
Nothing indeed could be better ; but now she
must have something to drink as well.

Lemonade  no, that's cold for this hour of
the day. Humph ! here's a little wine in a
bottle : half a glass of Madeira won't hurt me,
ril be bound. But I believe that is Sarah
lumbering overhead. I must be quick, or I
shall be caught.'

Having by this time made an excellent meal,
she drank her half-glass of Madeira  very
warm and comforting; it seemed under the
circumstances  then hastened back to bed.

The retreat was effected only just in time ;
a few minutes later, Sarah, the cook, descended,
not, however, to go into the pantry and discover
the depredations. Her business was in
the dairy; no one else would be downstairs for
another hour to come.

Mrs. de Robert felt a wholly different creature
when once more she laid her head on the
pillow. The feverish discontent, the tormenting
restlessness, alike the physical and mental
discomfort from which she had lately suffered,
now passed away. She felt soothed, refreshed,
delightfully drowsy. In less than a quarter of
an hour she was in a profound sleep, from
which no carpenter's hammer downstairs would
have aroused her.

When at last she awoke it was well-nigh
noon. She sat up, looked round and listened.
In spite of curtains and shutters, it was clear
that she had slept a very long time ; in fact,
that the day was already far advanced. Then
the adventures of the night came back to her
recollection, one by one : the tossing on a
sleepless pillow ; the nightmare ; the surreptitious

descent and discoveries made on the
way ; finally, that excellent little refection in
the pantry.

She felt wonderfully alert now, and keenly
alive to the excitement of the hour. The
house was very silent, unnaturally so, she
thought, for that time of the day. AVhat
could everybody be about ? Mrs. de Robert
loved mystification. She liked to surprise,
and, although she would not for worlds have
confessed it, she liked to be surprised in turn.
The thing done, she rarely found fault with.
The thing people proposed to do, was always
in her eyes as bad as possible.

What could be going on now ? Then, all at
once, her old jealousy concerning the heirlooms
came back. The carpenters had surely been
at work whilst she slept. Mr. Meridian must
be displaying her treasures to the assembled
household ; worse still, he was giving them
away to the Pope, the Inquisition, and the men
with seven wives apiece.

The thought was maddening. These good
folks should have their money, and welcome.

But they should not have the Murilly and the
plate and the jewels  no, not if her name was
Sarah Roberts ! Performing a make-shift
toilette, as she had done a few hours before, she
again went downstairs, peeping and listening
by the way.

The dancing-room was deserted. The ,
as the drawing-room now deserved
to be called, was empty also. Yet, as she
advanced one step at a time, all her senses
alive, she heard the well-known voice of Mr.
Meridian. The sound proceeded from the
breakfast-parlour, a small room opening on to
the garden. Noiselessly and warily she approached
the door, noting various facts by the
way. On the hall-table lay several hats, the
soft-felt head-gear of the Yicar and the
Priest, the straw-hats of the Americans ; she
also observed some strange parasols, evidently
the property of Selina Beckett and Patience
Pursue.

She gathered, then, that the day's business
had begun  the distribution was already
taking place. Irritated at the bare thought of

the business that had brought these visitors
together, repenting more bitterly than before
that she had ever decided to part with the
property at all, feeling vindictive towards
every one of those who had come forward to
claim it, she was yet too much of a humorist
not to relish the situation.

Mr. Meridian occupied a chair by the table,
on which lay various papers and .
On either side sat the claimants
motionless as statues, suspense of a pleasurable
kind written on every face.

There was pathos mingled with comedy in
such a scene. Sabina and Prue had evidently
been shedding tears of alternate hope and fear.
They had taken off their bonnets which they
twirled nervously on their laps, and both sat
looking at Mr. Meridian as intently as
prisoners gaze at their judges when brought
lip for sentence. Now they were red, now
pale ; depressed one moment, the next elated
with ecstatic anticipation.

Pray let us both expect the worst,' Sabina
had said before setting out ; ' as my Edwin

used to say  his words are engraved on my
memory  " Binaa," lie said, " if you want to keep
your mind in just equilibrium, always wake up
expecting the direst calamities that can afflict
humanity  the bank to break which holds
your little all, a good-for-nothing relation with
nine children to take up his abode with you,
Asiatic cholera to break out next door, or
your own house to be burnt to the ground.
These things, most likely, won't all happen at
once ; but by dwelling on the possibility of
such catastrophes we give the mind a healthy

tone." '

Opposite the pair sat the three men, the
place of honour next to Mr. Meridian being
occupied by the Priest. He also testified the
liveliest interest in the proceedings, interest
by no means of impersonal kind. He drew
out his pocket-handkerchief and replaced it,
hemmed and hard uneasily, bit his lips from
time to time, and glanced anxiously at the unreadable
face of the umpire.

But the most curious study was that afforded
by the physiognomies of the uncle and nephew.

Whilst the elder Derrober behaved with the
utmost impulsiveness, showing even more discomposure
than the ladies and the priest, the
Doctor sat with head erect and folded arms,
the very personification of stoical indifference.
A shipwrecked mariner in mid-ocean straining
his eyes after some friendly sail, could hardly
wear an intense look than did the uncle.
The nephew, on the contrary, was the personification
of coolness, except when he glanced
at the white-robed figure of Miss Ivory.
Eugenia, dressed in muslin as befitted the
season, sat a little removed from the group by
the table. Wonderful to relate, her fingers
were busy ; she had on a chair beside her a
basket of flowers, and was arranging them in
bunches as she listened. No wonder that
Dr. Derrober glanced that way. The slender,
erect figure, the beautifully shaped head, the
dark bright hair and fair face so hard to
read, made a picture enchanting enough even
to distract the attention of expectant next of
kin at such a crisis.

Mr. Meridian looked much as he ever did 

circumspect, collected, entirely master of himself
and the situation. Something, nevertheless,
must have happened, thought the peeper
at the door. He was evidently about to make
an unexpected disclosure. As he manipulated
his papers and paused in his preamble, nothing
could be clearer than that he had surprises of
some kind or another for his little audience.
To Mrs. de Eobert, spying at the key-hole, the
moment was as crucial as to the breathlessly
expectant claimants. If they were eager to
obtain possession of her treasures, still more
eager was she to keep them for herself.
Agape they all were, she knew well enough,
for the Murilly and the plate and the jewels ;
but for a brief interval, and by anticipation
only, was the joy of possession to be theirs.
How would they look when she broke in
upon them like a thunder-clap, and said her
say?

She still paused at the key-hole, anxious to
learn what Mr. Meridian's preamble was all
about. Preamble it evidently was ; no one as
vet knew anything. Expectancy had reached

its acme, breathless suspense was at its
height.

And, calmly and deliberately as if he were
publishing the banns of marriage for half a
dozen couples at church, the Vicar thus
delivered himself :

You have now, therefore, the preliminary
facts before you. No legacy is here in question,
as you have seen. The distribution of
property is entirely a voluntary act on te
part  of Mrs. de Eobert ; an act made in
accordance, nevertheless, with the wishes of her
late husband. It was his desire that, in case
her own circumstances should so far alter in
the future as to permit the sacrifice, she should
seek out next of kin bearing his name, and
hand over to them the money and family
heirlooms, or as much of them as she felt
ready to part with. Mrs. de Eobert having
entrusted me with the business from the
beginning, I have endeavoured to act judiciously
and impartially, and I hope and believe
to the satisfaction of all concerned. I have
now, however, to inform you that the delicate

matter thus confided to me by my old friend
has been simplified in an untoward, a mysterious,
a most extraordinary manner.'

He glanced from one to the other of the
little group, and got out in the same crisp,
measured tones :

 To my great regret I have now to make
known to you that the cases so carefully
guarded, the cases to which no one here has
had access but myself, are found to contain
nothing but lumber. The family heirlooms of
which you have all heard so much, the works
of art, the plate and the jewels, have all
vanished as completely as if the earth had
swallowed them up !'

THE SECOND BOMBSHELL FALLS.

RS. DE ROBERT had heard more
than enough. The piece of intelligence,
awful to the expectant heirs
as a thunder-clap, came welcome to her asa
summer gale. It did more than relieve her
of a grievous burden  it put her in the best
possible humour, and made her feel years
younger.

At first she could hardly believe in such a
piece of good fortune. All difficulties in the
way of a pacific settlement were now removed.
She was relieved from the disagreeable duty
of being churlish at the last moment. There
would now be no squabbling over the treasure.
VOL. II. 29

It was gone, and a mighty good riddance too.
The thumb screwing Jesuit, the men with
seven wives apiece, the cheese-paring old
maids, might cry their eyes out to no purpose.
The Murilly was providentially rescued
from the Pope or the Inquisition ; the fruit-basket
of solid silver would not be melted
down by dynamite sworn to blow up the
House of Commons ; the jewels  well, they
might be put to good or bad uses, it was
no longer any business of hers. Anyhow,
there was an end of them as far as she was
concerned.

She forgot her nondescript toilette, for
toilette it was, in spite of the night-cap. She
was neither hopeless nor stockingless. Her
dressing-gown of bright-flowered stuff might
pass muster for a dress. Her cap was ornamented
with lace frills and a lavender bow.
For that hour of the day, and in her own
house, she presented a very creditable appearance.


Indifferent to these considerations, she now
broke in upon the thunder-stricken company.

Hard as it was to these much-tried claimants
to have the treasure wrenched from them at
the last moment, it was harder still to lose
the money. This terrible apparition in the
night cap could surely mean nothing else.
The arbitress of Fate had changed her mind.
One and all were to be sent away emptyhanded
as they had come. This something
to their advantage had proved a mere Wijl-
o'- the wisp, an ignis fatuus luring to despair.


The lookers - on were characteristically
affected. Miss Ivory, really frightened, rose
from her seat with a little cry, her first
thought being that Mrs. de Eobert was either
walking in her sleep, or a prey to mental
hallucination. The epigrammatic Doctor, a
moment before so apathetic, flew up like a
Jack-ins a-box, and, careless of appearances,
got behind Miss Ivory for protection and
shelter.

Mr. Derrober raised his hands to heaven,
as if entreating Divine pity under some
cataclysmal visitation. The Priest whipped

292

out breviary and beads, and mumbled Paternosters
as fast as his tongue could go.

As to Sabina and Prue, they sat pale
as ghosts, holding each other's hands, and
trembling from head to foot. They were
like a pair of travellers surprised by a railway
accident, every moment expecting the very
worst.

Only Mr. Meridian maintained composure.
He certainly did not look as if the little
incident pleased him  quite the contrary.
He was evidently much disturbed, but no
more scared at Mrs. de Robert's unexpected
appearance than if a wasp had alighted on his
nose.

An unexpected pleasure,' he said, smiling
satirically as he handed her a chair. ' Good-morning,
Mrs. de Robert. I hope I see you
well I'

Good day to you  and to you, sir  and you,
ma'am 1' Mrs. de Robert said with the utmost
affability, making the tour of the room, and
giving her hand to each of the claimants by
turn. * Well, Jenny, here I am ; but pray

don't let me interrupt. Pray go on I' she
added, addressing herself to Mr. Meridian ; ' I
heard what you were just saying about the
Murilly and the plate and the rest.'

She glanced benignantly from one to the
other of the crest-fallen little audience.

What can't be cured must be endured
she added airily. *I am sure you were all
welcome enough to the rubbish. Howev6i%
'tis gone, and there's an end of it. We shall
not any of us, I'll be bound, live an hour the
less in consequence.'

She sat down beside Eugenia, Mr. Meridian
observing her with an odd expression. Her
whimsical behaviour did not seem to take him
very much by surprise. The rest of the
company regained composure by degrees. The
Doctor emerged from his hiding-place behind
Miss Ivory, patted his uncle encouragingly on
the shoulder, whispering, ' All right, old
fellow!' Sabina and Prue grew mildly cheerful
by degrees, as folks on their way home
from a funeral. The Priest put away beads
and breviary. Order and composure being

perfectly restored, Mr. Meridian cleared his
voice to begin again, keeping a sharp look-out
on Mrs. de Eobert all the time. In fact, he
behaved much as a lion-tamer, who, whilst
going through the day's performance, never
once dares to take his eyes off some dangerous
old animal.

I've been the round of your pantry,'
whispered Mrs. de Robert to Eugenia, ' and
tasted your flummery, too. How good !' and
she smacked her lips.

Eugenia smiled reprovingly. Mr. Meridian
called to order in quick, rasping tones.

Permit me to go on, Mrs. de Eobert.'

'Pray go on,' she said; 'I am sure that
is just what I want you to do. You were
saying '

'The family heirlooms, then, of which I
hold a carefully made out list in my hand,
are unfortunately no longer in question  that
is to says not in question for the moment. It
is to be hoped that we shall recover, at least,
a portion of the missing property. The usual
steps to that effect will of course be taken,

and no exertions spared. Meantime, allow me
to state that I had endeavoured to apportion
these objects impartially, and with a view
to the especial tastes and requirements of
the recipients. The gem of the collection, the
Murillo '

What is the good of making people's
mouths water for nothing V broke in Mrs. de
Eobert. ' Much good it does to tell anyone
you have given him something, which is no
longer yours to give.'

Permit me, ' Mr. Meridian said severely.
This beautiful work of art, a Holy Family by
one of the greatest religious painters the
world has ever known, was, without doubt,
originally designed for a church. With what
seems almost providential appropriateness, the
Church sent one of its ministers to claim it.
The Murillo, then  I feel sure, with the
sanction of all present  I had set aside for the
reverend father now among us.'

I'd sooner see it burnt to tinder first,'
whispered Mrs. de Robert audibly.

The Priest bowed melancholy acknowledgment.

Mr. Meridian continued in the same
inflexible tone.

By whom it was to have graced some sacred
edifice in a region but yesterday converted to
civilization and Christianity.'

Pretty Christianity that !' again Mrs. de
Robert whispered audibly. ' The Inquisition,
the rack, burnings in Smithfield, and the rest
of it'

Will you permit me to continue V asked
Mr. Meridian, severer than before.

I'm all attention,' Mrs. de Eobert replied
with affected meekness, the next moment
whispering in Eugenia's ear, ' 'Twas the
Jesuits that made Galileo swear the world
didn't turn round ; I know all about it.'

Next in interest and value to this chef
d'oeuvre of Spanish art, came the armour,' Mr.
Meridian proceeded. * The collection contained
some admirable specimens. After a
good deal of deliberation, I felt it to be my duty
to hand over these antiquities to our visitors
from the New World.'

Hear, hear !' cried the Doctor.

It "seemed to me, to say the least of it, as
fitting an allotment as the first,' resumed Mr.
Meridian. ' If an altar-piece painted by
Murillo seemed a fitting donation to a Polynesian
Cathedral, no less so were a suit of
armour worn at Crecy or Poitiers to the
museum of some infant city of the Far
West.'

Fiddle-de-dee !' murmured Mrs. de Kobejt.
Haven't the Yankees got Ked Indians and
other antiquities of their own 'I And give
me a good boiler or block tin roasting-jack for
all the armour in the world, I say.'

Mr. Meridian glanced sternly at his unruly
client, and continued :

I next had to dispose of the plate, old
china, and jewellery ; and here lay my greatest
difficulty. The late Mr. de Eobert desired 
and very naturally, as it seemed to me  that
the lion's share of his property should go to a
male heir, some father of a family ; in other
words, he hoped that a claimant might come
forward by whom the race and name would
in all probability be continued. Such has

not been the case. Our visitors one and all are

celibates '

If that isn't enough to make poor Affie
turn in his grave, nothing will Mrs. de Robert
uttered aloud.

It seems clearly my duty, under the circumstances,
to keep back a portion, alike of
treasure and money, in reserve. The possibility
of such a claimant coming forward at
the eleventh hour had to be provided
against.'

Here he chanced encouraQ;ino;lv at Sabina
and Prue.

Of course compensation had to be made
to the ladies in money. I therefore proposed
to retain the rest of the heirlooms for the
present.'

We'll make the round of all the pawnbrokers'
shops in London and ferret the things
out,' once more whispered Mrs. de Robert,
nudging Eugenia. ' I'm sure we deserve them
as much as any of 'em.'

The result has shown that such a precaution
was by no means unnecessary,' continued

the Vicar, now contemptuously ignoring all
interruptions. ' Last evening, at a late hour, I
received a telegram from a sixth claimant
whose presence may daily, nay, hourly, be expected
among us.'

This crowning surprise was too much even
for the circumspect Miss Ivory.

Your genteel young man 1' she whispered,
pressing her old friend's hand ; ' I felt sure he
would come at the last.'

Mrs. de Eobert's face beamed with exultation.
She looked ready to embrace everybody
in the room.

The demeanour of the expectant heirs was
characteristic. The Doctor clapped his hands
as if he were at the play. His senior
looked resigned. The Priest, as if just told
by the dentist that the wrong tooth had
been pulled out. Sabina searched her memory
for some comfortable apothegm of the ever-sapient
Edwin. Prue wiped away a meek
tear.

Under these circumstances,' Mr. Meridian
made haste to explain, *it is expedient to

defer the final settlement of affairs. In the
meantime,' here he glanced at the discomposed
audience, ' pray be under no misapprehension.
The claim, so late put in, will not be permitted
to supersede others as valid, or
materially to alter the disposition of the
property.'

I've a finger in that pie,' Mrs. che Eobert
whispered viciously.

The subdivision may, however, have to
be rearranged,' Mr. Meridian added. ' Some
readjustment, some modification may be necessary
'

I should just say so,' Mrs. de Eobert
murmured.

Not condescending to notice the offence,
the Vicar went on :

The newly-discovered member of the de
Robert family possesses one qualification that,
to say the least of it, emphasizes his
claim '

Just then a sudden commotion was heard
throughout the house. Bells were rung impatiently.
Doors flew open. The scurrying

feet and excited voices of domestics in hasty
conclave betokened some unusual event.

This must be our expected visitor,' Mr.
Meridian said, looking at Mrs. de Eobert and
Miss Ivory, as he put down his papers.

MRS. DE ROBERTS GENTEEL YOUNG MAN,

jT were hard to say which of the two
showed most curiosity, Mrs. de
Robert or Miss Ivory, as they
hurried out of the room to welcome the
stranger. The elder lady's inquisitiveness,
like the younger's, was tinged with romance.
Whilst Eugenia perhaps expected to find some
melancholy Ravenswood or imperious Rochester,
Mrs. de Robert had evidently made up
her mind that the new-comer was some
dashing Peregrine Pickle, a harum-scarum today,
but to settle down in time the very
model of a country gentleman. She had
cherished the belief from the first that such

a claimant would come forward, carrying off
not only the family treasure, but the beautiful
Miss Ivory, her own Eugenio.

The two ladies made the best of their way
to the entrance-hall, which presented a scene
of pleasing confusion. A foreign atmosphere
reigned throughout the place. Snatches of
foreign speech reached their ears, outlandish
objects met their eyes  Oriental travelling gear,
brilliant rugs, bundles wrapt up in gorgeous
silk handkerchiefs, gaily ornamented baskets,
and an amount of nondescript luggage that
filled the place. Everything, indeed, savoured
of surprises. Instead of one stranger there
were two two figures, at any rate, stood in
the doorway, both as romantic as if they had
been cut out of picture-books. The first, that
of a man of middle height, slender, with a
winning but somewhat anxious physiognomy,
advanced towards the ladies, pouring out
incomprehensible words of apology and explanation.


Now, as far as Mrs. de Eobert and Eugenia
were concerned, the stranger's speeches might

just as well have been uttered in Hindostan
as in French. The elder lady's travelling
experience consisted of a fortnight's honeymoon
in Paris years and years before. Miss
Ivory had never so much as set foot out of her
own island, and although she by no means
lacked the usual accomplishments of a young
lady, ' French of Paris ' was to her unknown.
Scant need, however, of interpreter have those
drawn towards each other by instinctive
liking and sympathy. Mrs. de Robert listened,
smiled and acquiesced, understanding as well
as could be what all this eloquence was about,
and her monosyllabic replies amply sufficed
to set the new-comer at his ease. He saw
plainly enough that his appearance was very
welcome. His kinswoman, so morose to his
predecessors, was now positively radiant. She
felt, indeed, that she had hardly anything left
to wish for. The genteel young man had
appeared in the very nick of time. The
thumb screwing Jesuit, the men with seven
wives apiece, and the cheese-paring old maids
should not carry off all the spoil after all.

Eugenia's feelings were of a wholly different
order. The notion of the least injustice being
done to the other claimants was very painful
to her. She did not wish the strangers to
be benefited at the expense of the rest. But
such surprises were very pleasant. A French-speaking
guest was a novelty, decidedly an
adventure ; and to Miss Ivory, as to the most of
her sex, an agreeable exterior and a fascinating
manner in the other are ever welcome.

The  genteel young man ' of Mrs. de
Robert's aspirations proved, of course, a myth.
We must be satisfied always to have one half
of our expectations realized, and let the other
j/o. The new-comer was certainly not young,
and not quite what old-fashioned folks would
call genteel. He had passed the Dantesque
half-way of existence anyhow, and perhaps'
might never see his fortieth birthday again.
His appearance, moreover, was that of a man
whose days have been spent in hardship and
adventure. There was almost the look of a
soldier about him, so sunburnt his complexion,
so weather-beaten his appearance. The cloak,

VOL. II. 30

too, that hung about his shoulders had a
military look. And the cloak as well as the
rest of his garments were well worn even to
shabbiness. He was evidently one of those
men who have scant leisure to confabulate
with his tailor. But the air of distinction,
the inborn dignity, the charm of amiable
character betrayed themselves through these
lending. After a highly animated speech, evidently
introductory and apologetic, and every
syllable of which the ladies had to guess at,
he turned to look for his travelling companion.
This was a boy of about ten, apparently of
pure Arab blood, and with a beautiful Biblical
face. Just such engaging little Ishmael 
only in a state of nudity -the traveller meets
with who ventures beyond the Gallicized circle
of Algeria. The child, in spite of his Bedouin
antecedents, looked gentle enough, and in
his red fez and nondescript costume, half-cosmopolitan,
half Oriental, made a charming
tableau in the hall. As to the servants, they
stood gaping at the little fellow as if he were
some wild animal of unknown species.

Meantime the conclave in the breakfast-parlour
had broken up in great confusion.
Mr. Meridian dismissed the claimants, first
reassuring them as to the consequences of this
event. He should adhere to his own division
of the property  that is to say, of the available
property  through thick and through thin.
If the works of art, the antiquities, and the
jewels had vanished, fortunately the money
remained ; and the money equitably divided
would be theirs.

Mr. Meridian then introduced himself in
the stiff literary French he was master of, and
matters greatly simplified themselves. The
new-comer thereupon took courage, tried to
speak English  broke down laughingly, tried
again ; finally, all went as smoothly as
possible.

'I am really an Englishman,' he said,
advancing towards Mrs. de Robert, and without
the least hesitation or apology kissing heron
either cheek.

Next he moved towards Miss Ivory, and
seemed about to embrace her after French

302

fashion also ; but her blush and deprecating
smile made him draw back.

Is not this, then, my kinswoman too T he
said, fascinated by the beautiful apparition 
apparition indeed it seemed.

There was much more than mere feminine
witchery about Miss Ivory. Nature had not
only superabundantly endowed her with outward
charm, grace, and spirit. The qualities
of the heart were there also, and far outshone
these.; so much rarer are naturalness, transparence
crystal clear, and affectionate enthusiasm,
than dark eyes, a complexion of pearl,
and features with which critics can find no
fault.

Your relation V bluntly retorted Mrs. de
Eobert. ' Not she, and none the worse for
that. And now, pray tell us all about this
little Ishmael with eyes like blackberries.'

This little fellow,' replied the new-comer,
gathering rather the drift than the literal
meaning of her speech  ' this poor child ' 
and so saying, he patted him encouragingly
on the head  ' is my son '

I'll never believe it !' cried Mrs. de Eobert,
staring at the boy. ' He's brown as Joseph and
his brethren, and your own eyes blue as
willow-pattern china.'

 My son  by adoption he replied, again
divining rather than understanding the drift
of the interruption. ' I must tell you his
history, and my own too. First let me
present my offerings from sunny Africa.'

Then he bustled about with the boy, and
produced a variety of gifts for grace, use, and
detestation  a carpet bright and variegated
as an Algerian meadow in April, a semitransparent
cream-coloured shawl made to set
off the beauty of the dark-eyed Mauresque,
gay earthen vessels absolutely novel to these
untravelled eyes, and appetizing baskets of
bananas, olives, dates, and figs.

Deary me I' ejaculated Mrs. de Eobert ;
very good of you to spend all this money on
me, I am sure ; I only hope you could well
spare it. However, I've always heard that
these things arc dirt-cheap in foreign parts 
that's one comfort. Well, little dartle, let's

make a clearance, and then we'll go to dinner
if we've got any dinner in all this commotion.'


Mr. Meridian, although pressed to stay,
now took his leave. The servants bustled
about. The visitor and his young companion
were conducted to the best bedchamber. The
Algerian gifts were made a show of in the
drawing-room. Then the little party sat
down to the one-o'clock dinner, all in airy
mood.

Now such is the contrariety of human
nature, that Mrs. de Eobert would have
welcomed this Benjamin, this prodigal son
of claimants under any circumstances. The
genial, handsome stranger  for handsome he
was, in spite of his somewhat worn and
weather-beaten appearance  might have been
ungainly as sop and ugly as Socrates.
Her heart would have warmed to him all the
same. She had not wanted the others, that
was the plain truth of it ; but this one she did
want, if for no better reason, because he had

not come before. And, so at least she persuaded
herself, he possessed the true de Eobert
physiognomy; he was the very image of her .
darling Affie.

When she discovered that his name was
Alfred, too, her delight knew no bounds. An
heir who was at the same time a namesake,
the very acme of her husband's wishes ! As
the new-comer gaily carved the chickens,
and at the same time told his story, she
sat gazing on him with a look of fascination.


It is by the barest chance that I am
here,' he said, helping himself with a pocket-dictionary.
' Who could have supposed that
an army-surgeon stationed on the very borders
of the Sahara, living among Bedouins and
French soldiers, should have heard of something
to his advantage awaiting him in England 1 At
home, I should say, being English. Sufficient
to say now that my name is plain Alfred
Robert, the de having been dropped since my
grandfather, a Protestant, settled in France.

So here I am, by profession an army surgeon,
native of beautiful, unhappy Algeria, the land
of flowers, sunshine, famine, earthquake, and
assassination.'

Algery !' cried Mrs. de Robert, dropping
her knife and fork. ' That is the country I
should like to see above every other.'

Nothing easier,' cried her newly-found
kinsman enthusiastically, and looking at
Eugenia ; ' I will convoy you thither. Make
my bachelor quarters your own. I am now
stationed in a spot that can only be described
as an earthly paradise.'

Famine, assassination and earthquakes are
hardly attractive,' said Miss Ivory.

Things are better now. I am alluding to
the past,' continued Monsieur Eobert. ' These
miseries pass and leave no trace behind. See
how light-hearted, how gay I am ; yet I have
lead to keep my fast also. I have seen people
dying of hunger around me. That ]door boy
yonder is one of the thousands whom the last
great famine orphaned.'

So you fathered him V Mrs. che Eobert
said. ' I felt sure you were a kind-hearted
creature. But go on.'

The place I am describing lies on the
border of the vast plateaux that divide flowery
Algeria from the pathless desert. Remote
although it be, a stray English tourist occasionally
finds his way thither ; from one of
these I learned that inquiries were being
made .for me at home. I am a naturalized
Frenchman, and I love my adopted country ;
England seems my home, for all that.'

We'll go to Algery with him, that we
will,' Mrs. de Robert said. ' But don't let me
interrupt.'

It was no easy matter for me to absent
myself. Time pressed. Official leave of absence
had to be obtained, a substitute found ;
but all these difficulties were at last overcome,
and here I am.'

What made you bring that poor little thing
with you V asked Mrs. de Robert, looking at
the child.

The army-surgeon reddened like a girl, and
for a moment showed painful embarrassment.
He turned over the pages of his dictionary in
search of a word, began to speak, faltered ;
then summoning courage, got out in the same
intelligible French-english :

*1 must candidly confess that I brought
the child as a living argument on behalf of
my cause. I do not need money for myself.
My wants are few, and for these the modest
emoluments of my profession suffice. I am,
however, covetous for my orphans. This is
not the only one I have adopted, and it is on
their account I cross the sea.'

I was in hopes you had a wife and a young
family of your own,' Mrs. de Eobert said,
rather taken aback ; ' but all in good time.
AVe'll find him an English wife, won't we,
Iveyy V

Nothing, indeed, could damp Mrs. de
Eobert's ardour just then. The last piece of
information was somewhat disconcerting. A
colony of little Arabs seemed almost as objectionable,

in the light of heirs, as Jesuits and
Mormons ; but this charming Affie would
marry an English girl, and then make everything
right.

CLERICAL MOONLIGHTERS.

Must when the festivity at Hoped ale
Manor had reached its acme, a
curious scene was taking pLace at
the Vicarage.

Mr. Meridian, of course, did not dance. He
looked in just as the guests Were arriving,
and promised to return in time for the banquet.
Then, accompanied by the Priest only,
and provided with a latch-key, he went back
to his deserted Vicarage. Such an entertainment
was of too rare occurrence in the quiet
village to be missed ; so very considerately
he had permitted his household to share the
diversions of the evening. ' Nobody need

return,' he said, * till he should give the word
of command

As the pair passed down the village street
they found every house dark, and not a soul
astir. The fact was, everyone had gone to
look at the dancing. Ball-dresses, wax-lights,
garlands, made a fairy-like spectacle to unaccustomed
eyes. The band, too, of itself
afforded a treat of the first water. The night,
was warm to sultriness, every door and window
stood open ; and as waltz, quadrille and
mazurka succeeded each other, the inspiriting
strains reached the village.

That lively music jarred on the Vicar's
nerves just then. His usual flow of conversation
stopped. Admirably as the Priest's companionship
suited him, sympathetic and genial
as they ever found each other, to-night Mr.
Meridian was absent and almost morose.

Was it the sight of Miss Ivory as she joined
in the dance that disconcerted him ? She
wore pearls in her dark hair and round her
slender throat ; pearly, too, the rich white silk
ball dress, well becoming her spirited, unusual

beauty. As she flashed past in the waltz,
now with the witty American, now with the
vivacious stranger, he began to feel vaguely
that she was wholly lost to him.

The gas throughout the Vicarage was low,
and silence reigned everywhere. A furtive
peeper watching these two silent figures as
they noiselessly stole upstairs, might have
supposed them bent on some nefarious or
uncanny errand. The Yicar, although in his
own house, seemed to realize the necessity of
wariness. The Priest hardly looked at ease.

They reached the landing-place ; then Mr.
Meridian lighted a night-candle, and, opening
a door, bade his companion note the number
of steps before him.

1 am taking you to a part of the Vicarage
unused in my time, or only devoted to the
stowage of lumber,' he said. ' Yet these
nurseries are the most commodious and pleasantness
rooms in the house.'

A passage was now crossed, a second door
opened, and the host invited his guest to
enter.

An ejaculation of wonder and delight
escaped the lips of the Priest ; he stood on
the threshold, enraptured at the dazzling scene
so suddenly revealed to him.

Will you come inside T said the Vicar.
There is nobody in the house, but, under the
circumstances, we cannot exercise too much
caution.'

The Priest obeyed ; the Vicar locked the
door from within, and the survey began.

The gas was now fully turned on, and the
room blazed with light on every side. Pare and
beautiful objects met the eye. The beholder
was suddenly spirited away to a palace of
art.

Choice pictures covered the walls, antique
silver shone resplendent, gems flashed, armour
gleamed ; whilst at the farther end of the room,
bright, rosy, golden, as if painted but yesterday,
hung a lovely, an inimitable Murillo.

Being somewhat pressed for time, we had
better take each object as it comes,' Mr.
Meridian said, brief and business-like. ' Here,
then, we have before us the entire de Eobert

collection, worth, without the Murillo, several
thousand pounds. You will see that there is
a little, a very little of everything, but that
little of first-rate quality. The heirlooms
proper  in other words, that portion of the
collection really handed down from one de
Robert to another, is of very inferior interest or
value.'

Thus saying, he led his visitor to a stand of
old-fashioned plate, engraved with the family
crest and motto ; handsome and massy it
certainly was, but of a kind to use, not look
at. There were the much-talked-of silver
candlesticks, at which the Priest looked
longingly, the flower-basket of chaste design,
and much else, all deeply interesting to a
dealer in bric-a-brac.

Strange how comparatively worthless is
splendour without individuality, wealth un-emphasized,'
said the Vicar. 'Melt down
yonder service tomorrow, and you would get
your precise equivalent in hard cash. But
throw this into your melting-pot, and you
lose something for ever.'

Thus saying, he took up a tiny silver casket,
having a graceful design in relief on the sides
and lid. It was a veritable gem of the silversmith's
art  a trifle, but a trifle the great
Cellini might have owned to without shame.

There speaks the true artist,' he said, ashe
laid it down and they passed on, the Priest
keenly anxious to get to the Murillo. Mr.
Meridian, however, insisted on seeing everything
in its proper order.

'These two pieces of tapestry,' he said,
evidently formed part of a series illustrating
the exploits of some mediaeval freebooter.
For what small mercies have we to be thankful
in matters of history ! The respectable
folks, if any existed, have slipped through our
fingers altogether. The historian, the artist,
the poet, immortalize the villainous or the
reckless ! I should give these tapestries a
Flemish origin, would not you V

In all probability it is so,' the Priest replied
absently.

We have here some beautiful specimens of
old French faience ; to my thinking, one of the

VOL. II. ol

most charming and satisfying of the arts.
Painters and sculptors wrought for the temple,
the palace ; the potter brings art to the
home. Look at this bit of early Limoges, an
imperishable nosegay in porcelain. These
roses and lilies, modelled perhaps when a
Valois reigned in France, may outlive all the
dynasties of Europe.'

The Priest was too hurried to comment on
this sentiment.

We have more time at our disposal than
you imagine,' Mr. Meridian said ; ' pray do
not be in too great haste. The armour well
deserves inspection ; it is the most interesting
of the family relics.'

He drew back a few steps in order to take a
better view.

I fear we moderns, for the most part  I for
one, certainly  should cut but a poor figure in
these accoutrements. The weight is enormous.
There was some difficulty about the matter, or
I should have had it weighed. Of course a
fighting man in those days was a mere animal,
strong as an ox, and perhaps hardly more

intelligent. In our own time we must be
content, I suppose, to read the reviews, keep
apace with the Spencerian philosophy, and not
trouble our heads whether we are provided
with muscle or no.'

His companion just paused a moment before
the armour, and that was all. The Murillo
at the bottom of the room attracted him as a
candle attracts the moth.

I . do not know why jewellery always
exercises such a fascination over the mind,'
Mr. Meridian said, now stopping before a little
case of jewels. He could easily have answered
such a question for himself, had he tried.
Is it because jewels are inseparably associated
with what everybody hears of and nobody sees.
Court pageants, world-famous beauties, and the
like ? All of us have heard of Cleopatra's pearl ;
how few ever gaze on a Cleopatra V

As he spoke, his eyes dwelt wistfully on a
superb ruby pendant with antique setting ; it
shone conspicuous amid minor gems  matchless
rose in a garden-plot. The stones were of
rare brilliance and purity.

*Yes. a very beautiful ornament indeed,'
the Priest said carelessly, and moved a step
forward. Only a case of quaint old snuff-boxes
now stood between him and the
Murillo.

But Mr. Meridian gazed and gazed like one
under a spell. His companion called attention
to this object and that ; he did not so much
as hear the remarks. The Priest edged on, and
finally moved in front of the Murillo. The
Vicar did not stir.

That resplendent jewel, globe of richest
crimson light, suggested thoughts of Miss
Ivory. Just as the ruby outshone its neighbouring
gems, so, to his thinking, did she
shine supreme among women. And the one
seemed made for the other. To him, the very
thought of anyone else wearing the ruby
pendant was intolerable. Beautiful as she
looked to-night in her white satin dress, with
its simple garniture of pearls, he was longing
to see her exchange this pale radiance for
the more sumptuous adornment of crimson
velvet and rubies. He was saying to himself

that if ever any woman could look a born
queen, meet for a Sebastian di Piombo to
portray, it would be Miss Ivory thus arrayed.
The longer and more steadfastly he gazed on
the jewel the more fixed became this idea.
Miss Ivory and no one else must possess and
wear it. He fancied he saw her before him,
and conjured up the vision so intensely, that
at last it grew bewildering. For a moment he
was transported with a lover's ecstasy.

The Priest also fell into a transport, but of
wholly different kind. No sooner did he behold
the Madonna of his dreams, the Madonna so
familiar, although now gazed on for the first
time, than he fell on his knees in the rapt attitude
of prayer. This beautiful altar-piece made
the place a veritable church to him. Outsiders
might cavil at the action, colder worshippers
resent the mood, but both indicated genuine
religious feeling on his part. It was feeling
of mixed kind. He was suddenly recalled to
bygone days, and the rapture of the novitiate.
He was also reminded of present needs and
aspirations, rather of the Church's needs

and aspirations represented in his own
person.

By Divine favour that altar-piece should be
his and his only ; it must not fall into
mundane hands.

He was offering up a prayer, therefore, to
his Madonna in heaven for the possession of
this earthly semblance. Alike religious
fervour and personal motives impelled him
to such appeal. Passionately as the Vicar
longed to see the ruby pendant set off Miss
Ivory's beauty, with equal fervour the Priest
craved the picture for his Sovereign Lady and
Holy Mother, the Church. If the one was
actuated by earthly love of exalted kind, the
other's yearnings were at least free from
worldly taint. Both for a brief moment
clutched at an ideal, both breathed the atmosphere
of a far-off, intangible world ; both
became oblivious of self and of all that is
comprehended in the word. The Priest was
lost in silent prayer. The Aicar's mood was
almost as reverential.

I think we had better go now,' at length

Mr. Meridian said suddenly, recalled to
realities.  It is long past midnight. A fine
picture, is it not V he added, as they turned
their backs on the Murillo.  You may, of
course, consider it yours.'

BACCHANALIAN.

Very different was the behaviour of
Mr. Bacchus. Whilst Mr. Meridian
kept away as much as possible from
the festive scene, Mr. Bacchus entered heart
and soul into the gaieties of the evening;.
He realized, as well as the Vicar, all that the
fete indicated  a general break-up of this
pleasant little society, a sudden calm after
feverish excitement  Miss Ivory's departure.
And after Miss Ivory's departure, the deluge 
in other words, flatness, no sort of interest
hanging about anything, gloom, and despair.
Under the circumstances, the lights, the music.

the joyous bustle of the ballroom were not
only distasteful, they were odious to Mr.
Meridian. But for civility's sake, he would
have preferred to remain away altogether.

The Curate, on the contrary, assumed a gala
mood with the rest. He said to himself that
if all happiness and enjoyment were to be
denied him on the morrow, it was the best
possible reason for quaffing both to the last
drop to-day. He compared himself to a
bankrupt ; the creditors will take ruthless
possession of goods and chattels next day.
Till they come, was the Curate's motto, let me
fancy myself a solvent man. Let me imagine
the plate, the wine, the lackeys mine still.

Mr. Meridian, on the contrary, behaved
like some wretch condemned to lifelong imprisonment.
Away with flowers, music, and
woman's smile, was his creed. Away withall
that reminds me of a world never more to
be my own. Let me prepare myself as best I
can for the life in death to which I shall awake
tomorrow.

After all Mr. Bacchus said, as he drew on
this gloves, about to lead Miss Ivory through
the quadrille, ' my mind is quite made up
about one thing. The most enviable condition
in life is that of a nobody, an out-and-out
nonentity. Were I Archbishop of Canterbury
at this moment, I should be ready to
hang myself.'

And why V asked Eugenia.

Because I could not dance with you, of
course ! How very little there is you can do
when you get to the top of the social tree  in
the way of innocent enjoyment, I mean !
Now, just because I am a half-starved curate,
I can follow the bent of my inclinations,
waltz, act in " Box and Cox," run bicycle
races ; in fact, I am just as independent as if
the whole world belonged to me. I don't
know how you feel about these matters, but I
would not act as Plenipotentiary to China, or
even Hairdresser to the Queen, for anything.
The responsibilities attached to such positions
must be maddening. Responsibility reduced

to a minimum  ah! that is my ideal, the
summum bonum of earthly felicity, to my
thinking.'

How happy you would be if you could
get through life without a head on your
shoulders !' laughed Miss Ivory.

And without a heart in my bosom ! Rid
me of that incubus, and I'll put up with the
inconveniences of the other,' said the pooF
Curate in ecstasy, one moment reduced to
despondency, the next ready to laugh and cry
in a breath.

He realized the hopelessness of his passion.
He knew as well as Eugenia could have told
him that the dignities of Plenipotentiary to
China or Hairdresser to the Queen were
easier of attainment than her hand. But he
could not help dwelling on his infatuation,
being proud of it, delighting even in the
torment it gave him.

I don't think jelly-fish are interesting,'
Miss Ivory said. ' Depend on it, you are best
as you are.'

If love-making could make a woman happy,
Miss Ivory got enough of it that night. The
suitors, one and all, felt that their last chance
of speaking out had come. Not only was she
on the point of disappearing from Hopedale 
in other words, from the ken of both Vicar
and Curate ; the Transatlantic wooer saw
before them a parting still more hopeless.
Neither Miss Ivory nor Mrs. de Eobert seemed
drawn towards Columbia. They talked of
visiting Switzerland, the Thine, Italy  Bongo;
but never hy any chance mentioned the
Kentucky Caves or Niagara.

The expression ' Transatlantic wooers ' may
well be used, seeing that the nephew's courtship
was chiefly done by the uncle. The
epigrammatic Doctor was not only proud,
but shy. He wanted Eugenia to understand
exactly how matters stood with him ; at the
same time, he wished to spare her the humiliation
of having in her turn to humiliate. He
said to himself that there were more ways
than one of letting a woman know you want

to marry her ; that if, for reasons best known
to herself, she has nothing to say to you,
'tis only a nincompoop who cannot find it out.

Nevertheless, the wisest resolves are ofttimes
shaken in unexpected fashion. The
Doctor was no more insensible than any other
mortal to the witchery of music, roses, and
the dance. Miss Ivory's appearance, too,
coupled with these, seemed more captivating
than ever. Surely homage would be legitimate
and timely just then.

Throughout the evening he had kept a
sharp look-out on the movements of his
uncle. He knew well enough that all one
man can say on another's behalf would be
said by his advocate, if opportunity offered.
He might reason  expostulate  nothing could
prevent the elder Derrober from pleading his
nephew's forlorn cause. Forlorn it was, without
doubt ; yet under these festive influences,
he grew animated and hopeful.

Did you observe me whilst you were deep
in confabulation with that ancient harum-scarum,

that venerable gicldy-pate yonder V
he asked of Miss Ivory. They were about to
dance a mazurka together, and awaited the
striking up of the band.

Eugenia looked conscious.

Were you not taking part in the quadrille ?
1 fancy you had Miss Prudence Perfect for
partner.'

Eight, so far ; and at what distance,
measured by the yard-measure, do you presume
I might be from you whilst so engaged
V

Really I have no idea she said, smiling.

Well, these details matter little. Considering
that the band was playing all the
while, and that the rest of the dancers were
laughing and talking, as well as my partner
and myself, I could not, of course, have heard
a syllable of your discourse had you both
shouted like town-criers. I know every word
my beloved old curmudgeon whispered in
your ear, for all that ; aye, and what is more,
every word you uttered by way of reply !'

You could make a fortune, then, as a
walking telephone Eugenia replied jestingly,
although ill at ease.

She did not feel in the least afraid of poor
Mr. Bacchus. The Doctor, as well as Mr.
Meridian, made her timid, apprehensive.

I will show you twenty ways of making a
fortune. Show me one of enjoying it !' cried
the Doctor; 'but now for a sample of my
divining powers.'

Why repeat what you say we both know
already V said Eugenia.

I know that I know. I want to convince
you of the fact was the reply. ' I warrant
it, the first point my respected uncle
tried to impress upon you was the amiable
character of his nephew. Did he not say, or
make a tantamount assertion, that there was
not another fellow like him for tenderness of
heart, scrupulous delicacy of feeling, devotion,
and so forth and so forth ? Don't believe a
word of it. 'Tis all Brummagem, hocus-pocus
and fiddle-de-dee. Then the old gentleman

goes on to gild his gingerbread a little thicker.
Speak of his heart, madam ! I might go on
praising it till I burst  I might indeed.
Gold is not the word for it. We must discover
a purer metal. But when you come to
his parts, his mental qualities, there you
have me  I am about as much of an orator asa
donkey in ecstasies over a bed of thistles.
Look you, madam, this man is a pearl cast on
the dunghill of society. Why is he not
glorious, in everybody's mouth, hand and glove
with grandees, a figure at Court in velvet and
silk stockings ?  just because wit is no longer
at a premium in this dull world. Society
can get on without it. Were Plato now
living:, he would have to whig-ale and hang-le
for his bread like any penny-aliter. Shakespeare
would never be asked out to dinner.
Lord Bacon himself would not find a publisher.
My nephew, now  he " but why

repeat the dear old gentleman's words ? We
can all be as fluent as Cicero about anything
we want to get rid of. I assure you, on my

word of honour, that my uncle is dreaming.
There is not a particle of veracity in what he
says. He is all froth and imagination. If
there exists a poor creature, a man who has
not a good word to say on his own behalf, that
man's name is Franklin Derrober.'

You do not flatter yourself,' Eugenia said,
hardly knowing whether to be sad or merry.

Do not jump with such haste at conclusions,'
continued the Doctor. 'The poorest
creature that ever lived may have a redeeming
quality, a flash of compensatory insight.' . He
looked at her earnestly, and continued, in a
voice full of deep meaning : * Were I to goon
my own way to the end, smug, serene,
self-confident, never allowing myself to be
carried an inch to the right or the left, either by
love  or any other folly  I might justifiably
indulge in self-contempt. But to aspire after
an ideal unreachable as the moon  to part with
one's peace of mind, with ambition and all
realities for the sake of a dream ! Yes, you
must admit there is virtue here. A man is

VOL. II. 32

at least a degree above a worm who woos the
impossible '

You are romancing, too Eugenia said,
smiling, yet sad. ' Such ideals, such dreams
have to do with great deeds, not with
happiness in the power of any woman to
give

Contradict me as much as you please ;
what does it all matter ? Confess, when we
come to realities, you have not so much asa
crumb to bestow on the starving robin at
your window, much less a whole loaf for the
tattered beggar at your door.'

And that may be no fault of mine,' Miss
Ivory said, softly and sorrowfully. This
strange scene was making her feel contrite
and unhappy.

Answer me one question,' he said quickly.
*At least one starving robin, one tattered
beggar, is no more to you than another. Your
heart is free V

She laughed somewhat bitterly.

The heart  the heart !' she cried. ' Is

everything in life decided by feeling ? Who
is entirely free V

She was thinking of Mr. Meridian, and of
the claims he had upon her. Before the
Doctor could put in a word, there he stood !
The signal for supper was given. The Vicar
now recalled her promise of accepting his arm.
She could dance all the evening with the rest.
The least she could do was to give him her
company now.

We will resume our conversation at some
future time. To-morrow  or in Paradise,' the
Doctor said jestingly, as she turned away with
Mr. Meridian.

The Vicar, Eugenia thought, looked careworn,
even haggard ; all the more so by
comparison with his neighbours. Opposite to
them now sat Mrs. de Eobert, squired, as she
called it, by her French nephew, the newcomer
from the borders of the African desert.
Whilst the sunburnt army-surgeon was all
geniality, insouciance and light-heartedness,
his hostess beamed with exultation. The old

322

lady was triumphant as a maiden beside her
affianced lover. Her cheeks were flushed with
pleasure. She was for the moment all smiles
and good-humour. This young man  thus she
persisted in calling him, although he was
hardly younger than Dr. Derrober  this French
nephew  here her language was equally hyperbolic,
his relationship being as remote as that
of her Transatlantic kinsmen  in fact she might
almost as well have called Mr. Meridian a
nephew  seemed to have charmed away all
acerbity and waspishness. There she sat close
to him, devouring every look, hanging on every
word. ' Her own darling Affie to the life,' she
murmured to herself again and again ; and
what was more, recognised as a darling in his
lifetime.

It was not only the stranger's pleasant looks
and supposed likeness to her husband that
fascinated her; his conversation flowed in a
bright, joyous stream, and all that he said
interested. Then he called her aunt in French,
jmd gracefully and endearingly acted the part
of a son ; now wrapping a shawl about her

shoulders, now pressing her to eat of this dish
or that, now helping her in the duties of
hostess.

I'll tell you what it is, Affie dear she said,
in an undertone ; ' we'll go back with you to
Algery.' Glancing slily at Miss Ivory, she went
on : ' That dear girl and I sadly want to visit
foreign parts, and we have no one to take us.
We'll pack our trunks  no great affair that-
and off we'll start with you, no matter what
anyone chooses to say.'

The last remark was accompanied with a
malicious look at the unconscious Vicar.

Mr. Meridian was far from concerning himself
with Mrs. de Robert and her new guest at
that moment. He sat by Eugenia's side, mute
and self absorbed j making hopeless efforts to
break from the spell that bound him.

You eat nothing,' she said reproachfully.

I always regard ballroom suppers as a
premium put upon the seductive pastime of
dancing ; or  shall I say ?  a penalty incurred
by devotees of frivolity,' he replied. ' However,
I will willingly give myself a week's

indigestion for the sake of gratifying you ;
whereupon he helped himself from the first
dish that stood handy.

'What have you been about all the evening?'
asked Miss Ivory.

You have grown delightfully inquisitive
concerning my movements all on a sudden,' he
replied, yielding to the fascination of the
hour.

He thought he had never seen her so
adorable, and his admiration, as near akin to
worship as was possible in such a nature, betrayed
itself but too well.

Is it to be wondered at just now V Eugenia
asked. ' You are the Sphinx, the oracle,
whose utterances we are waiting for in breathless
uncertainty.'

I wish there was any uncertainty about
the utterances of another Sphinx,' he said.
Then, anxious to avoid personalities, though
burning with impatience to speak out, he
made a great effort, and talked brilliantly and
amusingly for half an hour.

But she saw through the veil, and no

declaration of sentiment, however impassioned,
could have moved her more than this stern
piece of self-mastery. Even in little things he
wished to be considerate, and considerateness
in little things is the touchstone of a fine
nature.

UNTANGLING THE THREADS.

That festive evening was pregnant
with consequences.

My mind is quite made up,
Eugenia Mrs. de Robert said next day.
We'll be off in post-haste to Algery, and
nobody shall say us nay. 'Tis a sweet pretty
place, as I have always heard say, and Affie
will be there to protect us from Bedouin
assassins. You'll go, wont you ?'

Whither, indeed, would not Miss Ivory go
just then ? For her, too, the plot had thickened
; the threads of Fate were becoming
more distractingly entangled than ever.

Algeria enticed from the distance as a harbour
of refuge.

We'll be off before my first twinge of
lumbago,' Mrs. de Robert said, much as if the
first twinge of lumbago were a fixed date in
the almanac ; ' and we needn't stay if we
don't like it, you know. We can come back
on the day for leaving off winter flannels.'
That event, according to Mrs. de Robert's
thinking, seemed also marked in the calendar.

It will be very pleasant,' replied Eugenia
musingly. 'Pleasant, too, the feeling that
everything is settled at last.'

And settled my own way, not Mr. Meridian's,'
chuckled Mrs. de Robert. ' He is not
going to turn the four sails of my mill, I can
tell him.'

Eugenia looked reproachful, as she always
did when Mrs. de Robert broached revolutionary
theories of this kind.

Too late to interfere now, Roberta. You
must not act unhandsomely at the last moment.'

If a thousand pounds isn't handsome, what
is  what is, I should like to know ?' Mrs.

che Robert said, emphasizing the repetition.
They shall have a thousand pounds apiece 
I mean the old ladies, and the missionary, and
the Americans  and Affie the rest. He is sure
to marry some day, a handsome young manlike
that ; there may be a real heir to the
property after all, and my poor darling will at
last rest in his grave.'

In my opinion,' Miss Ivory said, * it would
be much better to leave the matter to Mr.
Meridian. He will act fairly, and whatever
happens you need not then reproach yourself.
And you can give your genteel young man
what you like afterwards. You are always
saying that you have no legatees but cats
and dogs.'

I don't want to come to blows with the
Aicar. Disagreeable as he can be, he has
saved me no end of trouble. But what can
he have to find fault with in my plan ? Isn't
a thousand pounds worth crossing the water
for ? They'll be pleased enough, depend on

itr

But Mr. Meridian had your full authority

to act from the beginning, and is pledged now
to an equal subdivision.'

I'll tell you what it is, then, Iveyy,' she
added. ' If you pack off with Affie and myself
to Algery, I don't care a straw about the rest.
And they won't get the Murilly and the
silver basket and the old china  that's one
comfort.' She chuckled over the thought.
How these things disappeared is a mystery
to me. Do put on your hat, and hear what
the Yicar has to say about the business. And
pray tell him that we are off this day week.'

Miss Ivory looked as if the errand were not
exactly to her taste just then. She also had
something to say to Mr. Meridian, and wanted
to get it over. But she hardly felt in the
humour to have a tooth drawn at that moment.

The sooner all this is settled the better
Mrs. de Eobert added persuasively. ' We
cannot be too brisk about starting. If we put
it off, a dozen more folks may come after the
money. And, if not, something else is sure
to prevent us from starting at the eleventh
hour. No, Iveyy, we won't wait a month, nora

fortnight, nor even ten days. AVe'll start
on our travels this day week. So do go and
see the Yicar at once.'

Miss Ivory realized the force of these arguments.
Yes, the sooner present uncertainties
were ended, and imbroglios cleared up, the
better for all. She set off to the Vicarage at
once.

Mr. Meridian received his visitor in the
charming study that might well have reconciled
some men to bachelorhood. Without
and within, all was pleasantness and repose.
The room was tastefully, almost coquettislily
furnished, and opened on to a little rose-garden,
quietude itself but for the notes of
birds.

Pleasantness and repose, as far as circumstances
were concerned, had certainly fallen
to the Vicar's share. Unruffled by vulgar
anxieties or mundane cares, born to an easy,
a dignified and congenial position, endowed
with moral and intellectual gifts that command
respect, if they do not readily inspire affection
a supremely happy man might Mr. Meridian

have been, but for one drawback. He
hungered after Eugenia's appreciation, and the
more he hungered the farther it seemed off.

Mrs. de Robert asked me to call upon you,'
she began ; and as she spoke she looked at her
host searchingly.  She wants to know if you
see any chance of recovering the lost property
V

Mr. Meridian's face was absolutely unread-
able as he made curt reply : ' None whatever.
Let Mrs. de Robert make her mind perfectly
easy on that score.'

Eugenia was a deep young lady, but her
insight was tempered by discretion. Seeing
that the Vicar was determined to be uncommunicative,
she passed on to another subject.

Mrs. de Robert seems quite decided to go
back with her latest visitor to Algeria. She
would like to start in a week's time.'

Pray tell her that the affairs she has
entrusted to me shall present no obstacle. I
distribute the money formally tomorrow.
The twenty thousand pounds will be divided
into six equal shares, and distributed amongst

her next of kin  so-called. Nothing then
need prevent a general departure.'

He spoke with feigned indifference, affecting
to hide the shock her news had given him.
Inwardly he was shaken to the very depths of
his nature. It was very difficult for him to veil
his real mood, and in jest and satire appeared
the only means of escape.

You may realize your fondest aspirations
and get to Bongo after all, then,' he said.
How could I be so cruel as to laugh these
bright visions to scorn ! But now you will
have your revenge. You will ride on a camel
in mid Africa, whilst I sit mewed up at home
writing sermons for clodhoppers to go to sleep
over.'

We intend to return in the spring,' she
said, in a voice of meek apology. Everj word
he had must uttered came as a stino-injr reproach.


Ah,' he replied, ' take my advice, and
having once turned your back upon Hopedale,
never dream of coming this way again as long
as you live ; you have no idea how insupportable

we should all appear to you ! The very
holly trees would be odious because they are
not palms, and even the poor sheep would give
offence because they are not gazelles. T know
how it is with you travelled folk.'

Travel is not generally supposed to soften
people's brains,' Eugenia retorted, with much
temper. Why  oh, why was not Mr.
Meridian amiable ?

But what is ten times worse, it hardens
their hearts,' he continued, in the same strain
of light yet cutting banter. ' Nothing like a
trip up the Nile to render your next-door
neighbours insufferable ; whilst a voyage
round the world has been known to turn the
mildest into critics sour as vinegar. You see,
we are such very poor creatures ; but it is not
till our friends sharpen their wits by travel
that they find it out.'

Eugenia could but feel that there was some
truth at the bottom of this raillery. She
knew as well as the Vicar could tell her that
she should not return to Hoped ale precisely
the same Eugenia who went away. Things

would appear different to her. Her judgments,
and as a natural consequence her
likings and antipathies, would be modified.
She might appreciate Mr. Meridian's good
qualities all the more after a temporary
separation. What seemed likelier far was
that new life, new influences, new modes of
thought, might estrange her from the Vicar
altogether.

She, too, as well as Mrs. de Robert, was
conscious of the stranger's fascination. The
foreign atmosphere he had introduced, the
new ideas and standards of thought suggested
by his conversation, his Gallic gaiety and
openness of mind, were very engaging. For
the first time in her existence she had come
in contact with a temperament directly the
reverse of our own insular sedateness and
reserve.

The gay, yet much-tried army-surgeon,
whose hopefulness and vivacity the severest
ordeals could not check, was no mere adventurer,
living morally as well as materially

from hand to mouth. He was wedded to a
duty arduous and ill-remunerated as can well
fall to the share of any son of Adam  his very
journey to England had been prompted by
humanity and self-abnegation. All this had
touched her imagination.

Whilst Mr. Meridian was speaking, she
secretly acknowledged that his arrows struck
home. What were her words worth when
she reiterated intentions and promises of
returning ? 'yet she felt compelled to say
something on her own behalf.

If I thought that a winter in the South
would make me despise my old friends, I
should stay at home,' she said almost
bluntly.

Would you really do that ?' he asked, with
a burst of passionate earnestness. Then,
recalled to a sense of realities, feeling that
the talked-of departure was at last no mere
jest, but a hard, cruel reality, and that
perhaps for the last time they sat face to
face in friendly confabulation, he could resist

VOL. II. 33

temptation do longer. The impulse to speak
out mastered him. 'Ah!' he cried, and fora
moment he was a prey to feminine weakness
and trembled from head to foot, whilst his
voice was thick with tears. 'It is my very
life that you take with you when you go away,
and you will never understand.'

'But I do understand,' Eugenia replied, intones
almost as passionate as his own. ' And
because I understand, I came to say something
on my own account to you now. If
my friendship is worth anything, if it can
make 30 u happy, take that  and for once and
for all bid me not 00 to Aria.'

o o

He understood exactly the meaning of this
little speech  a more magnanimous utterance
surely never passed any woman's lips. She
expressed her willingness to become his wife,
simply because he loved her and was unhappy.
The bright hopes that beckoned, the
unfulfilled romance of girlhood, the dreams
and aspirations not in his own power to
realize  she would renounce all these if he

willed it. The motives that prompted her
self-devotion he understood also.

Recalling their intercourse during the last
few months, he saw how easily a sensitive
nature micrht find matter for contrition.

o

There was that unfortunate imbroglio with Mr.
Bacchus to begin with ; and not only on one,
on a dozen occasions she had accepted his
services  services that might well seem t
claim a reward. For himself, he had never
reproached her except for not loving him.

Touched, humiliated, transported by the
magnitude of the sacrifice, he stood irresolute.
Xow, he said to himself that he could
make this girl happy, that in refusing to
accept her self-renunciation he was yielding
to morbid scruples. Vanished a few bright
years, dispelled a few radiant dreams, and
this brilliant Eugenia Avould need sure anchorage
as any common woman ! AVhat
was the worth and stability of these toys,
these gewgaws, she now clutched at so
feverishly ? Travel, adventure, romance, 



sooth ! would she be any the better or happier
for them in the end ?

Might not the existence and love he offered
give surer guarantees of happiness than any
glimpses of a more varied life, any stranger's
fancy ? For himself, he could speak with
assurance ; for others, he dared not answer.

These thoughts flashed through his mind
swift as lightning. For one wild moment,
the crowning joy of life seemed his own. He
saw his home made perpetually sweet and
beautiful by her presence. He stood on a
pinnacle of earthly bliss, the envied of none,
envied by not a few.

But the bewildering vision would not stay.
Clear, unanswerable justice made itself heard,
and swayed the storm of passion.

He drew back horrified at the bare thought
of yielding to such a temptation. Even with
the most rigid exercise of self-control and
toleration on both sides, would such a compact
be endurable ? A wife's devotion without a
wife's tenderness! oh no! better, a thousand

times, loneliness and isolation than the inevitable
retribution of loveless wedlock. She
was proud as well as himself. Her unhappiness
would ever be studiously veiled from
his ken, that he knew right well. But unhappiness
must be the final portion of both.

Of no colourless nature this bright, beautiful
Eugenia ; she was born to expand as a rose
in sunshine. To accept the gift of her life on
such unequal terms seemed, now that the
scales had fallen from his eyes, little short of
sacrilege.

All these thoughts were come and gone ina
few moments. Swiftly as if the decision had
been instantaneous he answered her.

If my love is worth anything, is it not
capable of some sacrifice also?' he said, wholly
broken down, for once using the language
of real tenderness.

'Go to Algeria,' he added. *Go anywhere
you please. Forget Hopedale altogether.
Only be happy.'

Her eyes were full of tears, and he, too,

could not get out another word. They shook
hands m tearful silence; then she passed out
of the carol window into the garden, and
thence, without being observed, by a field-path
to the Manor.

Prie WRITES HER FIRST SERMON. 

Sabina and Prue had come into
their great fortune at last 1 They
were able to sit down and inform
old friends and neighbours at home, that they
had really heard of something to their advantage.
They wept, they giggled, they knelt
down and solemnly thanked Heaven; they lay
awake till dawn, making plans for the future;
finally, both succumbed to the overjoy.
They took to their beds, from which it
required all the Curate's medical skill and
philosophy to raise them. He exhorted,
reproved, and sermonized  prescribed pills,
powders, tonics, and sedatives by turns ; and

after a day or two his specifics worked the
cure. The pair rose one morning, feeling
said Sabina, as if nothing had happened after
all.

And after all, nothing has happened worth
mentioning,' continued the little woman, endeavouring,
as usual, to shake off earthly
dross. ' You and I get several thousand
pounds apiece, which merely means so much
more money henceforth paid to butchers,
grocers, drapers, and undertakers; for of course
we must die some day, and our end will be
considerably hastened by living on the fat of
the land. There cannot be two opinions as to
that. Now, had you written a second Waverley
novel, and jumped into world-wide
celebrity  had I discovered that I could sing-like
Jenny Lind, or dance like Fanny Elssler 
we should have had something serious to crow
about.'

We must crow about what we have got,'
Prue replied cheerfully; 'and how many much
more deserving than ourselves would be thankful
to have as good cause. I still feel, I

am sure, as if I were standing on my
head;

I assure you, now that the first surprise is
over, I feel as if the matter were not worth a
second thought,' Sabina said, with an air of
superiority. ' Of course, had my Edwin been
by to share this good fortune with me, things
would now wear a wholly different aspect. I
am to-day, at heart, as I was twenty-five years
ago, a sorrowing widow.'

A sorrowing widow is better able to support
her troubles when she has a little money
in her pocket,' Prue said. ' After the struggles
we have had to make ends meet and keep up a
respectable appearance on eighty pounds a
year between us, we ought to rejoice in being
able to set up our carriage  well, not that
exactly, but a pony-chaise will certainly be
within our means, and between walking and
riding is all the difference in the world. Then
there are the poor to think of How pleasant
to feel able to bestow money as well as tracts
and good advice 1 The poor people at home
always seemed as grateful as possible, I must

say that for them; but when you can give
half a pound of meat to a hungry man, it's
more to the purpose.'

Sabina tossed her bead.

You will, of course, do as you choose with
your own. For my part, I never mean to Layout
a single farthing on charity, so-callers.
My endeavour will be to improve the tastes of
the working-classes by offering prizes for
poetical compositions, and paying the learned
to lecture to them on the philosophy of the
Stoics. My Edwin was always talking about
them  Zero especially.'

Would that sort of thing be generally
understood ?' asked Prue doubtfully.

It doesn't do to give people what they
understand, as Edwin used to say. I
remember his words so well. " Binaa," he
said  ' Binaa, if you want to elevate your
fellows, discourse to them on something quite
beyond their comprehension. That is the
secret of all great intellectual revolutions." '

Prue still looked recommending:. These

theories savoured to her of irrelioiousnoss.
Sabina, to her thinking, always stood on the
brink of Stoicism, or something equally dreadful.
Poor Prue often wished Edwin's wise
saws at the bottom of the sea. They worried
her extremely.

Thus, then, chatted, in spite of Sabina' s
deprecations, the happiest pair of mortals
under the sun. Sabina had a well-thumbed
copy of Johnson's ' Vanity of Human Wishes '
in her pocket, and produced it from time to
time, in order, as she expressed it, to keep
down ebullitions. ' Let us be as happy as
the day is long,' Edwin used to say; * but for
Heaven's sake, no ebullitions.'

In the midst of their lively talk the door
was opened an inch, and Prue caught sight of
the Curate. He was beckoning her out. She
was with him in a moment. He invited her
into his study, and, standing with his back
to the window, said in a husky voice :

I am feeling very unwell  have got a
splitting headache  and this sermon, by hook

or by crook, must be finished to-night.
Do you think you could possibly do it forme
?'

I will tr},' Prue said, inwardly trembling.
She had no literary experience whatever, but
would never have dreamed of refusing the
Curate anything. Had he asked her not only
to write the sermon, but to stand up in the
pulpit next morning and preach it, she would
have said ' Yes,' to oblige him.

It is not at all a difficult subject,' continued
Mr. Bacchus  * about Ruth and
Orpah; and the text is, " Whither thou goes,
I will go, . . where thou dies, will I die, and
there will I be buried." You have but to
resume the thread of my discourse. All is as
straight sailing as possible.'

I can but do my best,' replied Prue, smiling.


Best or worst, it will be a sermon all the
same, and I dare say much better than my
own generally are. So scribble away,' said
the Curate.

He closed the door, and Prue heard him
go upstairs to his bedroom and lock himself
in.

What could there have happened ?' wondered
Prue. ' He spoke of headache, but his
disordered looks betokened mental rather than
bodily distress. Was it some pecuniary difficulty
he had got into ?  some claim put in
that he had no means of discharging ?' SUp
thanked Heaven that it was now in her power
to relieve him of such anxieties. Nothing-could
repay his kindness to Sabina and herself,
and Mr. Bacchus was the first who ought to
benefit by their improved fortunes.

Then she dipped pen in ink, and valiantly
scribbled away. If there existed an avocation
in which Prudence Perfect was born to shine,
it was certainly that of writing sermons. She
had the Scriptures at her fingers-ends, and
although without an} apprenticeship to the
sublime art of scribbled, could write sweet,
unalloyed, rustic English.

But it was not of literary skill she thought

now. Sabina had spoken of Jenny Lind and
Fanny Elssler. Pride's raptures might rather
be compared to those of Sappho in her most
impassioned mood, or of Jeanne d'Arc when
first hearing the heavenly voices. The task
before her seemed in itself sacred ; the fact of
Mr. Bacchus having set it, lent additional
sweetness and solemnity. She felt that, no
matter her want of learning, her incapacity,
her inexperience, she must make her words to
live. The subject, too, exactly suited her
frame of mind. Was she not like Ruth in
Bible story? Did she not feel that whither
the Curate went, she must go ; and where he
died, there must she be buried ? Tears of
mingled ecstasy and sorrow rose to her eyes,
but she dashed them away for the sake of her
work. Mr. Bacchus was in the habit of
making his sermons long. ' Poor people,' he
used to say, ' liked to get as much as possible
for their money. They would listen to him
all day, if he chose to hold forth.'

So Prue's pen moved as if she were

under the spell of inspiration. She knew
exactly what form the composition of a sermon
should take a piece of knowledge not astonishing
in one who had listened regularly to two
on Sundays and as many on week-days as she
could get at for well-nigh thirty years. The
orthodox division into heads was now strictly
adhered to, the stereotyped parallels brought
into relief, the historic coincidences dwelt
upon. . Then came the general summary and
the moral, and here Prue was little likely to
be at a loss either. She was a hast-rate
moralizer. If anyone could extract a moral
from a dumpling, it was Prue ; and if the
homeliest subjects could thus be turned to
account, what might one not expect when she
took in hand a theme so lovely and suggestive
as that of Ruth and Naomi ?

Fluent as she had been on the subject of
Moab and the genealogy of Bed's son, she
excelled herself in repelling the story of a
woman tender and devoted as herself. Her
whole being thrilled with emotion whilst

penning the last page. Not only the delight
of being serviceable to her friend and the
conviction of a hitherto undiscovered gift imparted
a glow of satisfaction ; she felt supreme
pleasure in thus being set on a level with
Christ's ministers, for once perhaps being
made instrumental in leading the thoughtless
to heaven.

She had just accomplished her task, and
was glancing at her manuscript with silent
rapture, when the Curate burst in.

You don't mean to say you have done
already r' he asked, with a look of relief ' I
only wish I could be half as expeditious. But
you are new to the business. You would
find it as tiresome as I do after a while.'

I hope it will do. Have you time to look
through it ?' asked Prue nervously.

Oh,' said Mr. Bacchus, ' I have time
enough for anything. It is the head I want.
I assure you I could not read your sermon
just now if you paid me twenty pounds.'

This somewhat ungracious remark would

have damped Prue's ardour, but for the
Curate's look of extreme wretchedness. There
was a wild expression in his eyes, too, which
frightened her.

She put aside her manuscript sadly. The
sweet meed of praise she had expected from
his lips was not to be her reward as yet.

soh!' she said, 'something very serious, I
am sure, is the matter. Will you not tell m&
what it is ?'

The poor Curate threw himself on the sofa,
and burst into tears.

You know already,'he got out.  She is
going away next week  Miss Ivory, I mean.'

Do not be so cast down. Sooner or later
she will come back again,' Prue said, ready to
weep, in her turn, out of compassion.

That sweet, artless voice of comfort but
made the Curate's tears fall faster. There he
lay sobbing, the very personification of helplessness,
misery, and despair.

She will never come back,' he murmured.
*I foresee exactly what will happen. She

VOL. II. 34

will marry that Frenchman ! Why was not
I born a Frenchman ?'

Prue had risen to go. She felt a delicacy
in staying. He would naturally like to have
his grief to himself Divining her intention,
however, the Curate stopped her.

'Don't forsake me, dear,' he said, holding-out
one hand and motioning her to sit down
beside him.

Prue, blushing and smiling through her
tears, did as she was bidden. Still grasping
her hand, he went on :

I assure you, if it were not for the poor
children and kind friends like yourself, and
for the look of the thing, being in holy orders,
I should make away with myself It was as
much as I could do to keep from jumping
into the horse-pond just now.'

Oh !' Prue cried ; ' you would not thus
destroy your valuable life ! And think of the
misery you would cause others !'

I don't want to make others miserable.
I know what it is too well myself Mr.

Bacchus went on. ' My life henceforth will
be as uninteresting as if spent within the four
walls of a prison. A man must be very far
gone to feel like that.'

Great griefs pass, under God's blessing,*
Prue said, mildly persuasive. ' You may be
ready to jump into the horse-pond to-day, but
this day twelve months you will very likely
feel as cheerful as possible.'

Then if that day ever comes the Curate
replied, more fully realizing the sweetness ot
Prue's sympathy every moment  * if that daj
ever comes, will you marry me ?'

Oh, thank you !' Prue said, wholly overcome.
' Thank you very, very much.'

What you have to thank me for, I can't
conceive,' bluntly retorted the Curate. ' II
you were not forbearance itself, you would be
ready to trample me underfoot like a noisome
reptile. I ought not to have mentioned this,
of course, till the time comes that I do feel
cheerful. But if I ever do again, will you
now  will you really marry me ?'

342

Of course whispered Prue.

Of course ! I see no of course in the case
again broke in the self - reproachful Mr.
Bacchus. ' You are a rich woman now, and
I haven't a sixpence. How I have the impudence
to ask you, I can't imagine. I am
always doing things I can't imagine I should
do, were I driven to it.'

But, fortunately, other people see us in a
different and more favourable light than we
do ourselves Prue said, all appreciation and
tenderness.

I am thankful you see me in a favourable
light. It is the one ray of sunshine in gloom
black as night. I hope I shall feel better
when the dreadful day is over, that is all. I
am sure it will be as bad to me to see Miss
Ivory steam off by train with that Frenchman
as to take part in her funeral.'

It will not be so bad for her. When we
love our friends very much, we must rejoice
in their happiness, whether we can share it
with them or no.'

'I wish I could feel so,' retorted Mr.
Bacchus. ' But I am not a good Christian 
never was. I cannot bear to have my fondest
hopes dashed to the ground ; yet if they had
been realized, if Miss Ivory had married
me, such happiness would have been my
soul's destruction. I see that written on the
wall.'

To a woman less oblivious of self than.
Prue, these outpourings would have been
anything but flattering. As sweetest flattery,
however, she accepted every word. Was he
not confiding in her because she was to be
his wife ? The wild fancy for Miss Ivory,
she said, would pass away. Her memory
would gradually become to him as a beautiful
dream. Prue was conscious of no jealousy,
no uneasiness; only a little secret satisfaction,
at the thought of Miss Ivory's coming departure.
It was better both for the Curate's
peace of mind and her own that Eugenia
should go to Algeria.

'I certainly feel a trifle better,' he said,

after a time. ' Suppose you read me your
sermon ? If I should fall asleep you would
forgive me, would you not ? You know,
all preaching always has a drowsy effect, more
or less.'

Prue briskly took up the manuscript, and,
greatly to her delight, the Curate did not goto
sleep.

On my word !' he said. ' It is A 1 ! You
won't catch me writing many sermons when
we are married, I can tell you. I only wish
you could preach 'em, too. However, we need
neither write nor preach sermons unless we
please. The world will be before us whereto
choose, as to Adam and Eve. But I wish
now you had not come into that money. I
mean, I wish I had asked you to marry me
before you did come into it. Do what I will,
I cannot prevent my conduct from appearing
in the most odious light. The fact is '

But Prue would not permit him to say what
the fact was. * It is so much pleasant to
look forward than backward,' she said ; ' and

not all the talking in the world will prevent
women like Miss Ivory from turning menes
heads. Helen of Troy could not help herself ;
but, for all that, she caused a deal of mischief,
poor woman V

MORE DISENTANGLEMENTS.

E AN WHILE the prodigal son, the
Benjamin of claimants, was in high
favour with everyone. JSTobody,
except Mrs. de Roberts, had a word to say
against the others ; the ladies were found
amiable and sympathetic; the elder Derrober
all old-fashioned chivalrousness and enthusiasm,
the younger ever entertaining to listen
to ; the Priest, besides being urbane and eloquent,
was a mystification to be admired at a
distance. With the last new-comer it was a
case of general falling in love at first sight,
and this fact may be taken as strikingly illustrative
of human character and human history.

In the other men had been embodied spiritual
vend intellectual activity, philosophy, faith,
speculation. The stranger personified action ;
and it is the men of action who have fascinated
the majority of their fellows from the beginning
of chronicled time until now. Mrs. de
Robert, for instance, may be taken as an
average type of humanity, neither better nor
worse, neither wiser nor simpler, than the
ordinary run.

She could not help listening to the animated
talk of the first three  she really liked them in
her own heart ; but neither the discourse of
priest, philosopher nor satirist took any hold on
her imagination. She did not feel as if these

o

kinsmen belonged to her. Very different was
the case of the army-surgeon. His brief stirring
narrative of exploit and adventure she
delighted in, and could understand. To have
that dear Affie in the house, as she expressed
it, was the next best thing to consorting with
a real live Robinson Crusoe. The pathos
of his position, too, would have been irresistible
even in a commonplace man. This

handsome, sunburnt, weather-worn hero had
gone through as many hairbreadth 'scapes as
Othello. Gently born and bred, circumstances
had compelled him to face the most cruel trials
that confront humanity. The sight of vast
populations decimated by hunger and unhoused
by earthquakes ; defenceless villages
stormed by infuriated Arabs bent on pillage
and slaughter ; fever and pestilence rampant
in the land  all these ordeals he had passed
through, yet his sunny temper and faith inhumanity
remained intact. Whilst recounting
past experiences, he could all the same throw
heart and soul into this new English life,
familiar to him hitherto in novels only.

Mrs. de Robert micht do her best to
monopolize the favourite of the hour. He was
here, there, and everywhere  at neighbouring
tea-tables and lawn-tennis courts  ready to
sing, waltz, play duets, help to get up a picnic.
Nothing in the way of recreation, new experience
or sociability came amiss to him ; and
to crown all, in spite of being a Frenchman 
which, in popular phrase, means a scoffing

Voltaire  when Sunday came round, there he
was at the parish church, with Mrs. de Robert
leaning on his arm !

As for Miss Ivory, she saw less than anyone
of the fascinating stranger ; yet they were
already on delightfully cordial terms.

My time to enjoy your society will come in
Algeria,' he said, laughingly triumphant. ' I
must not rob your friends of a single quarter
of an hour now. You ride, of course. I will
procure for your use a gentle-tempered Arab
horse. We will breathe the very air of the
desert together.'

This indulgence in prospective freedom, this
foretaste of new experience and adventure, was
not the most attractive feature of her new
life. Algeria would not be Hopedale. In
Algeria, Hopedale problems would cease to perplex
her. No more painful decisions impending,
no more inner conflicts at hand ! And the
realization of her wishes so far. Bongo, or
what was next to Bongo, at last  palm-groves,
Bedouin tents, and the dusky population of
the desert !

For my part, when we get there, I should
like to stay and become a second Lady Hester
Stanhope Mrs. de Robert said, in high glee at
the thought of setting out. ' And as to you,
Iveyy, I know what you'll do in the end.
You'll marry that dear Affie; and those jewels,
if we ever recover them, shall be yours  with
more besides.'

Miss Ivory laughed away the insinuation,
but Mrs. de Robert continued with the utmost
gravity :

Oh yes, laugh as much as you please. We
may laugh or cry. Things work one way or
another, and sometimes for the best. I feel ascertain
as my name is Sarah Roberts that you
will marry a de Robert after all ; and if you
do, I give you my word for it, I'll leave you
the best part of my money.'

I would marry a chimney-sweep on those
conditions, of course,' Miss Ivory replied, with
much seriousness.

Humph I' cried Mrs. de Roberts, affronted ;
I hope you don't compare Affie to a chimney-sweep.'


One might as well marry a chimney-sweep
as a saint, provided he is an acquaintance of
only four-and-twenty hours' standing, or thereabouts.
But have it all your own way.
Marry me to the Dey of Tunis, if you please.
We are at last to set forth, like Don Quixote
and Sancho Panza, in search of adventure. I
can think of nothing else.'

I do wish we could take the poor dear
cats', sighed Mrs. de Robert. ' I cannot bear
the thought that they will perhaps be low-spirited
without us.'

Foreign cookery might not agree with
them, nor with the dogs either. I think they
will be happier at home,' Eugenia replied.

There is ever some drawback to happiness
in this life,' Mrs. de Robert said. 'However,
Affie has promised, if I am homesick, to bring
me back at a moment's notice. I am tired to
death of Hopedale, and all the people in it ; but
I dare say as soon as ever I have started I shall
cry my eyes out to return. To go all the
way to Algery seems a madcap scheme, at my
time of life.'

My dear Roberta!' Miss Ivory exclaimed,
opening her eyes wide ; ' don't you know
that what seems an adventure to us, is no
more to the rest of the world than a trip from
London to Hampstead Heath ? Sir Thomas
Bates, you remember, visited Algiers and
Morocco when he was verging on ninety; and
the Miss Spencers, when both past eighty,
went up the Nile, and climbed to the top of
the Pyramids ! The older people are, nowadays,
the farther they travel.'

The more fools they, then !' was the
rejoinder. ' What do old folks like myself
want but our cats, warming-pan, and buttered
toast ? However, I'll go as IVe said I'll
go, Iveyy, although I feel a presentiment
that this journey will be the death of
me.'

Miss Ivory knew her old friend's whimsies
too well to take these observations
seriously. The Algerian project would wear
a dozen different aspects in Mrs. de Robert's
eyes ere the moment of departure came. But
the departure would take place.

The news of this romantic expedition had,
of course, spread like wildfire through the
place, and formed the chief topic of conversation.
In more cosmopolitan circles such a
scheme excites little curiosity or astonishment.
To ' winter with the swallows in Algeria '
nowadays is not more difficult of achievement
than a trip to Brighton. But Hopedale folks
travelled seldom. Wedding tours were generally
spade to London, or, at farthest, to Paris.
Valetudinarians journeyed to Moffat or Torquay.
It only rarely happened that anyone
got as far as the Rhine or Chamouni.

For the most part, people kept their money
in their pockets, and travelled by means of the
book-club or circulating library. But to set
off for the confines of the desert, and under
French guidance, savoured of the marvellous.
Some predicted one thing, some another ; but
all came to the conclusion that Miss Ivory
would marry the new - comer, Alfred de
Robert. It could not be otherwise.

Talk the four sails off yonder windmill,
talk Morecambe Bay into a cedar forest, talk

a garrison of fools into wise men, you will
never make me believe that I have a chance
with Miss Ivory,' said the Doctor to his uncle.
However, in order that you may not reproach
me till my dying day, I will go this very
afternoon and ask her.'

There speaks my valiant Frank !' cried the
old man, delightedly clapping his hands. ' Go
in for the prize and win !'

A fool's cap, or a woman's scorn. The
wisest have discerned as much before now,'
was the reply. ' Well, Mr. Curmudgeon,
what am I to say ?'

Say, indeed ! Say to such a girl as that ?
The veriest dolt that ever breathed would feci
inspired at the very sight of her.'

Say what other lovers have been moved to
say under the same circumstances, from Adam
downwards.'

And more barefaced lies men have never
uttered!' cried the Doctor. * Would you have
me swear that I am ready to lay down my life
for her ? Paltry concern as it is, she knows
I would do no such thins". Shall I vow that

she shall mould me to her will, that I will
prove ductile as wax in her fingers ? When
did a man so much as change the colour or
shape of his waistcoat to please his wife ?
Ought I to swear that I love her? A sorry
jest that ! The wretches who have cheated their
wives, proved faithless to their wives, robbed
them, beaten them, murdered them, did they
not all swear once upon a time that they were
over head and ears in love ? No, sirrah !
teach me something more to the purpose to
say to Miss Ivory, or by my faith I'll stay at
home!'

You are right so far, Frank. I don't
think a girl of sense and spirit wants to be
harangued upon such an occasion. Make thy
offer pithy ; woo her with thy wit, man ; let
thy understanding take her heart by storm !'

I'll tell you what it is,' Dr. Derrober said,
getting up. 'I'll just say, "Eugenia Ivory,
will you marry Frank Derrober ?" When a
man has said that, has he not said everything ?
What matters it whether he is ready to marry
her for her beauty, her sprightliness, or her

VOL. II. 35

fortune? Not a jot that I can see. The gist
of the matter lies in the fact that he is ready
to marry her at all. He can but wed one
woman, and from the millions that breathe on
this terrestrial globe  the dark-skinned, the
blonde, the clever, the gay, the queen of
society, down to the milkmaid  he has chosen
her. That is to say, he fain would choose her.
So poor as such a compliment may be in most
cases, to say nothing of my own, 'tis the best
a man has it in his power to make. Off I
am !'

Heaven's blessing go with thee, my lad I'
ejaculated the elder fervently.

Don't bother Heaven about my affairs
any more just yet,' quoth the irreverent
Doctor. 'Have we not Got our monk's'? :i

thousand times more than our dccits?
Should we not now leave Heaven to do our
neighbours a good turn ? Bye-bye, old gentleman.
Take care of yourself in my absence.'

Thus saying, the Doctor started jauntily on
his errand. He was not the kind of man to
be cast down under any circumstances. This

something to his advantage, this solid piece of
good fortune in the shape of several thousand
pounds, if it could not exalt, was at least not
calculated to depress. A certain stoical resignation,
a secret conviction of the hopelessness of
his case, made him take refuge in outward
gaiety. Moreover, he could not endure the
thought of causing his uncle pain.

As good luck would have it, he found Miss
Ivory, alone. Mrs. de Robert, with her pseudo-nephew
and the little Arab boy, had driven to
the nearest town in order to make purchases.
Eugenia stayed at home  must it be confessed?
 having urgent business with the
milliner. After the usual greetings, he plunged
straight to the heart of his subject.

Is it ever worth while,' he began, ' to ask
a question when we know beforehand exactly
how it will be answered ?'

That depends,' replied Miss Ivory gaily,
although her colour went and came. ' I
suppose, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred,
we know exactly how our neighbours are.
Yet with what persistence we always say

352

How d'ye do?" as if they had just been dug
up after an earthquake or risen from a sickbed.'


Can we ever be quite positive, for all that,
how a question will be answered?' continued
the Doctor. ' It seems that, alike in the
weightiest as well as the most trivial cases,
there must ever be a margin of uncertainty.
For instance, I once asked a veritable skin-flint,
a money-grubber, to lend me a hundred
pounds. I felt it was just as likely that Mont
Blanc would turn on a sudden to barley sugar.
The incomparable niggard actually said *' Yes."
There is also this point to consider. Are
there not manifold questions that never ought
to be propounded at all, by their intrinsic
delicacy shut ois from speculation, relegated
to perpetual doubt, silence, and obscurity?'

Certainly,' Miss Ivory replied, still animated,
but uneasy. ' AVhat so impertinent as
to connect a slate-pencil with the doings of
the soul hereafter, mahogany tables and immortality
?'

I fear that I now put myself into the category

of mahogany tables and the slate-pencils
resumed the wooer, outwardly playful, although
m an earnest mood.

Miss Ivory, one jest before we part. Pray',
madam, why do you put on this missis air
of innocence when you know as well as I do
that Frank Derrober has a heart? " What if
he has?" say you. " Small concern of mine.
I've hearts enough and to spare, handy, if I
want any." Aye, madam; but, an it please
ye, 'tis very much my concern. Well, I grant
you, a heart is a poor thing in itself; but for all
that 'tis a man's microcosm, his stock-in-trade
as an immortal, the pack containing his all-in-all
as he wanders a pedlar through the world.
Am I and my wares just nothing to you? 
so much Brummagem?'

What can I say V said Eugenia, taken by
surprise, although she had tried to prepare
herself for such a disclosure. She liked this
genial, witty, insouciant Doctor. She could
not bear the notion of paining and disappointing
him. But there her feelings for him began
and ended.

What can you say V he asked, determined to
keep up his spirits to the end, to do battle for
himself bravely, but, if worsted, to bear defeat
with a cheerful air. 'Frank Derrober,' he had
said to himself, ' no ordinary tussle this. Fight
with tooth and nail, lad ! fight while any
breath is left in thy body ; for remember, if
sent sprawling on the grass now, vanquished
ignominiously, 'twill be thy first, last appearance
in these lists. No more fray on account
of ladies' smiles ; thy last hope of shining in
such a tourney vanished for ever!'

'What can you say?' he repeated. 'I am
the very person to come to in your quandary'
the prompter with book open at the right
place. Say, then, " Does a more impudent
fellow exist on the face of the earth? But
softly; there is a grain of honesty in his composition.
Many of his sex, FU answer for it,
can hardly boast of that; and candour is the
best of soaps. It washes the conscience clean.
As he has told me the worst himself, there will
surely be no pitfalls for me to stumble into.
Again, a potent argument in his favour, he has

strolled half-way down the garden of life without
so much as coveting a single rose till now.
If not sweetest flattery this,' at least evidence
of nice judgment and fine taste on his part." '

You think much too highly of my poor
self,' Miss Ivory said, anxious to stop him, not
quite knowing how.

Madam, you are but as God made you.
Small credit to Eugenia Ivory for being wlt
she is. She could not alter the colour of her
eyes or cut down her stature by an inch, if she
tried till Doomsday. But perhaps I have not
your ladyship's permission to prompt you
further ?'

Miss Ivory, making an effort to be quite
self-composed, did now put in a deprecatory
word.

I am very sorry ' she began.

He sprang to his feet in a moment, hat in
hand.

Now I bow to my sovereign lady, and
accept dismissal. Pretty words these, but
none have ever caused more cruel pangs.
The editorial " I am very sorry "  how many

gardeners has it driven to suicide ? The
official "I am very sorry"  is it not the
epitaph of buried ambitions too numerous to
count? Your 'every sorry" I will believe,
though, truth to tell, I seldom believe anything.
Who but children and idiots do ? I
wish you well then, madam, although you
have dealt me a nasty blow. Plasters and
poultices won't heal it. 'Twill hurt me all my
life ; 'twill accompany me to my grave. But
I hope you will be happy. You are as innocent
of these villainies as a baby that puts
its little foot into the cream-noggin. Farewell.'


We shall meet again. You are not going
to leave Hopedale before us V she said, feeling
bound to say something.

His raillery disconcerted her more than any
mere display of feeling could have done. The
underlying bitterness was but too apparent.

Only stay here till the crack of doom, or as
near it as possible, and we stay too,' he replied.
' But we understand that a precursory,
a lesser crack of doom, is to take place one

day next week. In other words, Miss Ivory
quits Hopedale.'

Yes, Mrs. de Robert is going to start with
me for Algeria,' she said, blushing, she hardly
knew why ; leaving out all allusion to her
companion  she hardly knew why either.

He added, in the same tones :

Under the circumstances, you would be no
farther off at Timbuctoo or in the moon, and
no nearer if we were to remain perpetually
next-door neighbours. Only be happy, wherever
you are !'

I hope you will be happy too !* she stammered
forth.

I promise not to jump into the Falls of
Niagara, or blow my brains out with a revolver.
Will that satisfy you ?'

Then he took his leave, and on reaching
home, so well dissembled his chagrin that the
elder Derrober secretly consoled himself.

Thank God !' he reflected ; * this wound is
not incurable after all. My poor dear Frank
will pull himself together and marry, in time,
some pretty countrywoman. And, thanks to

decidedly the most disagreeable old Avoman it
was ever my luck to come in contact with 
whom may Heaven crown vith felicity !  we
have at least something to pop into the pot
without thinking beforehand, and a roof to
shelter us both as long as we live. It is
astonishing how a golden windfall weill turn
white hairs brovrn again, and soothe all cares,
even disappointed love !'

AT THE RAILWAY STATION.

the precursory crack of doom had
come at last.
Early one bright September morning
the little railway station at which Sabina
and Prue had alighted a few weeks back showed
unusual signs of animation. One by one hither
flocked Miss Ivory's friends and lovers to bid her
God-speed and farewell. The ladies had flowers
in their hands. A magnificent bouquet of exotics
ready for presentation to Mrs. de Robert might
be seen in the waiting-room. As the hour of
departure drew near, all faces were turned
anxiously towards the Hopedale road. Even

the station-master and porters shared the
general curiosity.

Oh dear !' said Mr. Bacchus  he had
changed his mind at the last moment, and
joined the rest  * I do trust nothing is the
matter  that they won't be too late, I mean.
It would be quite shocking to make us go
through the same trial again, just for all the
world like a rope that snaps at a hanging !'

This not over chivalrous speech was addressed
to his future wife, but Prue affected
to take it as a matter of course.

I dare say Miss Ivory feels as I do, and
will not come till the last moment. Saying
good-bye is as bad as having a tooth out  to
affectionate people, I mean. It can't be got
over too quickly.'

After all,' put in Sabina, whose mind at
such moments as these was ever full of the
lost Edwin, * as Edwin used to say  I remember
his dear, wise words so well  " Never
bluster or fluster, Binaa," he said. " We are
never really too late for anything  so long as
we are alive, of course. If we miss one train,

we can take the next. What we can't do
to-day we can most likely do tomorrow, or
ten years hence. Too late," he used to say,
** is a fiction, except in the mouth of a fish-salesman."
'

Or plethoric spider letting his brisk neighbour
gulp down unwary flies,' put in the
Doctor, who had just come up with his uncle.
Ladies, I hope that you feel all the better for
having this little business settled at last. Weare
now  Heaven be praised !  worth being
robbed and murdered ; as I take it, the true
criterion of gentility, the just ambition of
every well-regulated mind.'

Prue glanced at her lover, and smiled.

I don't think such terrors disturb us much,'
she replied.

'And thieves and murderers don't tell us
when to expect them, like duns and bailiffs,'
put in Mr. Bacchus, with a grimace. * We are
not in a perpetual misery of expectation.'

My feeling is that we ought to present our
esteemed friend the Vicar with a testimonial,'
said the elder Derrober. ' But for him, I feel

sure of it, we should never have got a halfpenny.
Here we were, and here we must have
stayed, subsisting on public charity, a charge
to the parish

I am ready to meet the most exalted views
on the subject put in the Doctor, with a hand
in each pocket, rattling what coin he chanced
to find there. ' Unless I soon rid myself of
my superfluous wealth, I feel that blood-letting,
or some other desperate remedy, will be necessary.
But here comes the old harridan  I
mean our esteemed benefactress  with Miss
Ivory, the juvenile Mahomet, and the Frenchman
; and post-haste behind, cheek by jowl,
the two parsons.'

The elder Derrober glanced anxiously at his
nephew. How could he bear this trying
ordeal ? The Doctor, however, had schooled
himself into self-possession. He looked careworn,
like a man whose nights have been
troubled ; but throughout the scene remained
every inch himselfanimated, swift of speech,
as if this were one of the happiest moments
of his life.

Prue, too, glances uneasily at the Curate.
He was all excitement. His eyes shone, his
pale cheeks were flushed ; he looked like a
man under the influence of some unwholesome
stimulant.

Thank God, it will soon be over !' he said
to himself, as Miss Ivory, beautiful and
radiant, drove up.

Not that Eugenia could leave her friends
and lovers without a pang. This series of
farewells was painful to her as well as to
them ; but the tension of the last few weeks
had ended. She was free ! At the approach
of the pony-carriage there ensued a little commotion.
The porters ran up to load themselves
with wraps and umbrellas. The Doctor,
all alertness, helped out the ladies before their
French visitor could dismount. The elder
Derrober gave Mrs. de Robert his arm. Mr.
Bacchus volunteered to take the tickets, and,
of course, took them for Liverpool instead of
London. Sabina and Prue bustled into the
waiting-room after the bouquet. The Vicar and
the Priest, who arrived a minute after, chatted

in French with the army-surgeon. The Doctor
kept close to Miss Ivory.

I so hoped that the train had gone without
US !' ejaculated Mrs. de Eobert. * I feel every
bit as if you were all bundling me into a
hearse. '

'At any rate, you don't look like it, my
dear madam,' Mr. Derrober said, smiling.
Permit me to say, even, that you appear the
picture of health ; and long may you live to
enjoy the satisfaction of making six people
happy!'

'Tis little enough you have to thank me
for,' jerked out Mrs. de Roberts. ' But,
bless us and save us, what on earth is
this V

Seeing that time pressed, and that everybody
else was occupied, Sabina and Prue now
produced the presentation bouquet. It was a
veritable triumph of the florist's skill  a real
work of art, possessing but one drawback.
It could not be preserved, and it could not be
eaten. That sheaf of blush-roses, Neapolitan
violets, and maidenhair fern was ephemeral

as ice-palaces constructed in Northern capitals
a marvel to-day, nothingness tomorrow.
Appended to the bouquet was a more solid
offering in the shape of a small silver ,
on which were engraved the initials
of Mrs. de Eobert and some of her grateful
next of kin.

We all wanted to show our appreciation of
your kindness,' began Prue, no longer timid
as of old.

It was astonishing how the fact of Mr.
Bacchus's declaration, coupled with that of
her good fortune, had given her self-confidence.
She did not dread her awful kinswoman
now any more than the Curate's baby.

You couldn't have laid out your money
worse,' blurted forth Mrs. de Eobert. ' I was
never fond of flowers squeezed together like
herrings in a barrel. And what will it look
like when it gets to London, I should like to
know V

A week ago such a rebuff would have completely
disconcerted both Sabina and Prue.
To-day, however, they were both too much

VOL. II. 36

exalted by their altered circumstances to care
a straw what Mrs. de Robert chose to say to
them.

Prue went on persuasively :

We understood that you were going to stay
a few days in London, and have brought a
basket for the flowers. They will look brighton
your dinner-table.'

Much time shall we have to look at them !'
was the ungracious reply. ' And what's that
gimcrack dangling below V

That is a small goblet for travelling purposes,'
Prue continued, with as much composure
as before.

Just then the Priest came up.

You will observe, my dear cousin,' he said
blandly, addressing himself to Mrs. de Robert,
that the names of the donors are but five.
We Jesuits bestow upon the poor only.'

Quite right too,' replied Mrs. de Robert.
However,' she added, turning to the others,
I thank you, all the same ; and the bouquet
shall go with us to London, since we have no
carriage to pay for it. How late the train is,

to be sure ! I wish, for one, that it would not
come at all. I never repented of anything
half so much in all my life as of this wilds
chase to Algery. Not one of us will
ever see Hopedale again  that I feel certain

of;

Meantime, chance had favoured the lovers
so far. Alike the Vicar, the Curate, and the
Doctor got a parting word with Miss Ivory.
Each Jiad kept a sharp look-out for his opportunity,
and made the very most of it when it
came.

The first to be thus favoured was Mr.
Bacchus. Impetuous as a schoolboy, he had
proffered to take the tickets ; blundered as to
the destination ; finally, come back triumphant
and apologetic.

There you are !' he cried, as he handed
Miss Ivory the tickets and the change. He
glanced round, and seeing that no one was by,
added in an eager undertone : ' I feel as upset
by your departure as if I had fallen from the
top of a church-steeple. But you won't be
bothered with my importunities any more.

362

I am going to marry again He glanced at
the distant figure of Prue, and went on : ' No
choice lay open to me. I was ready to hang
myself when I heard that you were really
going off to Algiers. And when I have a wife
I shall be obliged to put a stop to such desperate
thoughts.'

I hope you will both be very happy,'
Eugenia said.

She felt sure that it must be Prue of whom
he was speaking. He looked crestfallen and
ashamed.

I don't deserve her. I don't deserve the
love of any woman,' he whispered. ' You
have made a fool of me till the end of my
days.'

Just then a porter came up with a sovereign
of Eugenia's money that the agitated
Curate had left on the counter. That little
incident created a diversion. Mr. Bacchus
returned to the ticket-office to assure himself,
as he said, that he had not left his head there !

Meantime, very alertly the Doctor took his
place by Miss Ivory's side.

What a comfort to me to feel that I have
been perfectly useless to you,' he began  -
never rendered you the tiniest personal
service whatever ! Think of me as of some
poor little struggling moon in the human
universe, content to have been illuminated by
its sun for one brief moment, then to sink
back into perpetual darkness.'

Was he in jest or earnest ? Miss Ivory
hardly knew. She was but a girl. There
are many things that books cannot teach us,
and this is one. What may a naive maiden
know of a man's passion ? Yet some glimmer
of the truth seemed to reach her  something
like conviction seemed to flash across her
mind. She looked at him with a tender
entreaty for pardon in her true eyes, and
replied tremblingly :

Forgive me for not being other than I am.'
I There was no time for him to say more.
Ie Priest now came up to take courteous
leave ; then he made way for Mr. Meridian.

The Vicar was calmness itself, but rigid ;
it was as if he feared to speak lest this painfully

attained self-mastery should play him
false at the last. When he spoke, his voice
was strained and unlike his own.

You will let me hear from you occasionally,'
he said, in that tone of authority he
could hardly help using even towards her. * I
shall want to know your plans.'

Of course I will write. We intend to
return to Hopedale in the spring,' she said.

But the cheering words had no meaning for
his ears. His face had a blank look. He was
on the verge of losing presence of mind.

Now, indeed, the white clouds of the coming
train could be distinctly seen through the
trees. Mr. Meridian's lips trembled, his eyes
filled with tears.

What would I not give to be going with
you !' he said ; and the words were as pathetic
as those of a sick man when he sees robust
companions setting out for a holiday excursion.


Eugenia's eyes grew moist also, and she
pulled down her veil as he conducted her to
the railway carriage.

Then followed a chorus of farewells, good
wishes, and ' God bless you.' Sabina and
Prue were finally overcome with emotion.
The Priest wiped his eyes. Even Mrs. de
Eobert looked ready to cry as she sat holding
Mr. Affie's hand.

Don't forget to go and see the poor
cats !' she shouted to Mr. Meridian, as at last
the train steamed out of the station ; tke
army-surgeon weaving his cap and reiterating
:

Au re voir ! au re voir !'

Mr. Meridian turned drily towards the little
group on the platform.

Now that Mrs. de Eobert is fairly off,' he
said, with an odd expression, ' I may as well
tell you that you are all richer than you imagine.
The much-talked-of treasure  the
pictures, the plate, and the rest of the de
Robert heirlooms  certainly vanished ; but
the thief was myself. I saw as plainly as a
man can see anything that drastic measures
were necessary I was driven to some such
expedient by the necessities of the case.

Suppose you all come to the Vicarage this
afternoon and inspect your new property V

There was a clamour of thanks, but the
Vicar did not stop to say more. Inviting
his companion to be seated, he stepped into
the pony-carriage, and drove off', only looking
back to say :

Won't you come too, Bacchus V
So the train having Miss Ivory for passenger
steamed off in the direction of London,
and on three hearts left behind there settled
a gloom most of us can understand. Who
has not lived through a similar experience ?
Over the beautiful world broods the very
genius of peace. The blue heavens are not
more dazzlingly fair than the green flowery
earth. But that curl of white smoke disappearing
through the trees means for us all the
emptiness and bitter sense of loss that any
human heart can feel. The wheels of life
move on briskly as ever. The bustle of busy
multitudes drowns our sighs. Gradually we,
too, learn to smile again as we take our usual
places at the board of life, though with scant

appetite and in no humour for saying grace.
All that made life's summer vanished with
that speeding train.

Mr. Bacchus would forget and be happy.
The Doctor was too much of a Rabelais, of an
Odysseus, to break his heart.

But Mr. Meridian in his quiet Vicarage,
would he ever recover the blow ? Would he
ever be the same again ? 

One thing is quite certain,' said Sabina,
at the close of this eventful day. ' Edwin
made me see it clearly more than thirty years
ago. Oh, the wise woman I should have been
had those thirty years been spent by his side
in blissful wedlock ! ** One thing is as certain
as Holy Writ. Pray, my dear Binaa, implant
it on your mind," he said. " The precariousness
of human affairs baffles the understanding
of the sagest. Newton himself could not
have prognosticated what might or might not
happen to a shoeblack as he walked down the
street. But no matter in what sphere of life
we are thrown, we are bound to keep our eyes

open. The wise as well as the foolish may
any moment, and in most unexpected fashion,
hear of something to their advantage." '

Our little drama, then, is played out at last,
and the curtain falls, but not on certain issues
only. Just as one romance often begins where
another leaves off, so the conclusion of a play
may suggest many an unwritten scene. The
question of Mrs. de Eobert's next of kin was
satisfactorily settled for once and for all, but
others remained of equal interest to all concerned.


Would Miss Ivory return in the spring ?
Would she marry Mr. Meridian, and settle
down to the life of a clergyman's wife after
all ? or, what seemed likelier far, would she
give her hand to the "light-hearted but heroic
stranger who had enticed her to far-ofi' shores?
Might not her old friends hear of her as
moving in a wholly new" sphere, taking the
initiative, perhaps, playing a noble and
courageous part in some European colony
under an African sun ? She would find there
an ample field for her energies, and wide scope

for the disposal of her fortune. And the
high-spirited, much tried army-surgeon, who
bore an English name, would he not rise to
future eminence in the country of his adoption
? Made independent by this inheritance,
might he not become a foremost pioneer in
colonization  a providence to many ?

Thus folks speculated concerning the pair.
They finally came to the conclusion that Mjs
Ivory would at some future time bear the
name of de Eobert, and thus become related
by marriage to her old friend.

Mr. Meridian kept his own counsel. The
questions put to him concerning the travellers
he answered unsuggestively. The de Eobert
jewels, however, he retained in his keeping,
and occasionally examined them with wistful
eyes. They were destined for Eugenia. He
had made up his mind all along that no other
woman should wear them. Alas ! he feared
now that she would possess but too valid a
claim. In his secret heart he never looked for
the return of the wanderers.

For the present, Sabina stayed with her

friend Prue, though it seemed likely that she,
too, would ere long choose a home for herself.
The elder Derrober's plans of a Phalanstery
pleased her. She had half promised to join
in the venture, and throw in her lot with those
of the speculators.

 Yes she would say, as she gazed on the
charming landscape from the Curate's window,
'tis a sweet place ; but, as Edwin used to
observe, " One place is just as good as another,
if we look upon the matter in a proper
light. The wise man will go into raptures
over a cabbage-bed as readily as over a
waterfall. The one is as much of a miracle
as the other, if we go to the bottom of
things." '

But we can't always go to the bottom of
things put in Prue. ' The created world is,
of course, wonderful in its most trifling detail ;
but it is natural to prefer gazing on a waterfall.'


It is not good for us to be always gazing
on waterfalls Sabina added. 'As Edwin said

I remember his words so well  " Binaa," he
said, " Binaa, accept the earthly and unearthly
by turns. Cultivate spasms, be spasmodic, for
only thus will you avoid a dead-level of feeling
and perception. Put David before your
mind, who danced in religious transport one
moment, and the very next fell in love with
his neighbour's wife. In order to keep clear
of soul-killing indifference, we must let the
mind get the upper hand to-day and the body
tomorrow." '

Prue looked unconvinced. She could not
bring herself to approve of all David's doings,
any more than of all Edwin's conclusions.

*The worst of being spasmodic,' she said,
is that we can't always stop spasms when
they once begin. And, of course, David was
an exception, held up more for edification than
example.'

She was wondering how she should feel if
her future spouse should dance in religious
ecstasy one moment, and look admiringly at
another curate's wife the next. No such

NEXT OF KIN WANTED.

suspicions, however, disturbed her peace of
mind. She trusted the Eev. Mr. Bacchus
implicitly ; and trust is the corner-stone of
affection.

With some of his own stories, a
romancer falls in love at first
sight ; with others, he becomes
gradually enamoured ; for yet a third order,
his feeling is steady, jog-trot friendship,
which neither increases nor abates till author
and dramatis person se quietly take leave of
each other at the colophon.

But from the moment that the story-teller
dips pen in ink, and seeks to give his
little world a local habitation and a name,
to clothe his characters with flesh and blood,
this is the real world to him, and the other
mere nothingness and phantasmagoria. His
next-door neighbours, all life, buxomness, and

jollity, seem much less like substantial realities.
He shuts himself up in his study, and consorts
with the more tangible folks he finds there.
And now comes to my mind a fable of the
witty Greek writer, Lucian.

Diogenes, according to this fable, asks
Hercules how, being a god, he has got to
the under-world.

Oh,' says Hercules, ' I am in heaven, sure
enough. It is only my shadow, my phantom,
strolling about here  not myself

Diogenes, not satisfied with this explanation,
wants to know how Hercules can be so
sure of the matter. May it not be the shade in
the upper region, and the real Hercules that
inhabits the dominions of Pluto ? A subtle
disquisition follows as to which is which,
leaving the two disputants where they were
when they began.

The novelist in earnest is very much in the
position of Lucian's god. He inhabits two
worlds, by turns being a shadow among
realities, and a reality among shadows. Winning
or grotesque, comely or hard-featured.

stern or adorable, these fictitious personages,
creations of his brain, exist for him, become,
for the time being, his brethren and sisters,
next of kin and near neighbours. If he
succeeds in puzzling his readers, as the cynic
and the god are puzzled in the fable  if, for
the time being, he contrives to make the
work-a-day world phantasmal and remote, and
the world of his fancy near and tangible
.ah, then he has wielded a wand
indeed ; and has nothing to fear from the
scorn of critics or the verdict of Time !

