CHAPTER I.

IX riCCADILLV.
'Act I., Scene I. A street. Enter two c,cntlcinen."

The wisdom of our ancestors has rendered
familiar to us all the time-honoured states
that stands at the head of this
chapter. Reading it. we foresee at once
the introductory scene to follow, in which,
under colour of discussing the future, a first
and a second gentleman will artfully reveal
to us the past. Once more must this well-worn
prelude be sounded ; but the externals
of scenery, actors and costumes, must be
filled In in words.

Wot r. B

The Street, then, was Piccadilly ; the
time, afternoon ; and the season, that in
which the most ardent lovers of London
begin to dream of green lawns and breezy
moors. The first and second gentlemen,
entering from Bond Street and from St.
James's Street respectively, met in the
fuller stream that runs between those two
affluents. The younger seemed to be
about twenty-two or twenty-three years
old, was well-crown, well-looking, and well-dressed,
a favourite, apparently, both with
nature and with fortune.

The other was not to be described in so
few words. A first glance proclaimed him
accustomed to good society ; one who was
used to wear his clothes and regulate his
bearing according to the latest standard of
fitness ; a model after whom it would be
r>afe to dress or speak. A second glance
might gather, perhaps, some subtle indication,
too fine to be rendered in words,

of military training ; but, beyond that, no
hint of tastes, disposition, or pursuits. His
face was, as a witness of character, altogether
Impenetrable, conveying merely
the slightly sinister Impression which weare
apt to receive from Impenetrability.
It could only be said of him, at a first
meeting, that he looked like a gentleman :
a convenient formula, into which the
speaker can put whatever measure he
pleases of the condemnation Implied In
faint praise.

The younger man's face, on the contrary,
was of very unusual openness. Its lights
and shadows were as changeable as those
reflected by a river beneath a sunny, but
cloud-flecked, sky. His name was on many
people's lips, and generally In the simple
form of Christian and surname Lawrence
O'Brien, with no formality of 'Mr.' Everybody
liked him ; a sociable and confiding
temper, an inclination to universal friendliness,

and a worldly position that quieted
every apprehension of his ever wanting to
borrow money, had produced their natural
effect and perhaps no man In London had
more and pleasant acquaintances, or
fewer Intimate friends. Just now, as he
came down Bond Street, the face which
everybody liked was overcast. The sight
of a friend was, however, always enough to
restore Its brightness, and the clouds gave
ways as the two men met, to a particularly'
pleasant smile.

Why, Grove," he said, " I thought you
Averse out of tov/n ! "

His Avoids had a lingering of the seductive,
Incurable Irish accent, and from his
tone you might have supposed that his
whole anxiety had been a desire for this
meeting, which was not by any means the
case.

Going on Monday," Captain Grove
replied. '' I thought ro? would have been
off before this."

'' I'm for the north by to-night's mall, to
CorriewhuilHe  Sydenham's, you know.
Going my way ? I must just look in at
Bailey's, about a gun of mine he has."

They turned into St. James's Street, and
Captain Grove dropped a careless observation
on its emptiness. His companion
answered with an absent " Yes." A moment's
pause followed ; then, seeming to
take a sudden resolution, O'Brien drew a
long sigh, and said abruptly 

*' I say, Grove  you know everything
about everybody  do you think it is true
that Miss Glendinning is to marry that fool
of a cousin of hers ?"

Captain Grove's feeling at this appeal
would best have expressed itself in the
words of Benedick, ' Sits the wind in
that corner?' but quotation was not a
practice in which he excelled, and his
personal feeling attained no clearer outward
form than a subdued " Ah ! "

Passlncf a thoughtful fino-er over his
moustache, he answered, " I don't think it ;
  not that he is such a fool, either."

Would you bet against it, then ? "

I don't bet on those things myself;
there's never any knowing."

He spoke lightly, but with a watchful
eye, suffering no fluctuation of his companion's
face to escape him. Its expression,
at present, was of a perplexed hesitation,
that showed no immediate symptom
of crystallizing into speech.

Captain Grove, therefore, continued, in
an easy tone, *' Where is Miss Glendinning
now ? "

*eat their place, you know  the Oases',
I mean  in Surrey. Willingshurst."

But Oakes is not there. He's in
Norway, or somewhere."

"Yes, I know. That's my only comfort.
Of course there's somebody else, if he
isn't there. There's always somebody."

Captain Grove ever so slightly shrugged
his shoulders.

What do you expect, if you will admire
the beauty of the season ? ''

Again there Vvas a little pause, until
Lawrence broke forth vehemently 

I don't think I can stand it much
longer. I feel sometimes as if it would
drive me mad. And then to be always
hearing that she is going to marry this
man or that man ! What do yo? think,
Grove ? Do you think I have any chance ?
You always know."

Captain Grove was not in haste to
reply ; it does not behove knowledge to
be too eager in unfolding its stores.

I don't know that I do know much
about iIiss Glendinning," he said at last.
Speaking in a general way, I should say
you have a better chance with any woman
than nine men out of ten. I feel pretty
sure of this about her : she is not the oirl

to throw herself away. And I don't think
she'll marry Oakes."

Lawrence appeared to take in and digest
these propositions one by one.

"And you are going to-night ?" Captain
Grove asked, dropping back into the most
ordinary tone of everyday talk.

'' Yes, to-night. I tried to speak to her
one day at the Leeds' ; but she looked so
unconscious and so self-possessed that I
had not courage. I don't believe she has
the least idea of what I feel for her."

*' xh-h ? " said Captain Grove. The
tone of interrogation seemed addressed
rather to himself than to his companion.
His voice, as he proceeded, had a slight
difference of pitch. " She ought to be
well up to the signs by this time, one would
suppose. Perhaps she understands more
than you give her credit for."

Do you think so ? "

'who can tell  until you ask her? If

you wanted my advice " (" I do," Interjected
Lawrence), " I should say, see for
yourself at the earliest opportunity."

They were in Pall Mall now, and at
this juncture stood still outside the lodmni-s
of that Captain Bailey who had O'Brien's
sun.

Captain Grove had glanced down reflectively
at the pavement ; he now looked
up with a curious smile, and said, " Well,
good-bye. I shall look to have to congratulate
you by the time we meet again."

I hope so, I am sure," said Lawrence,
giving as profound a sigh as that with
which he had begun his confidences. And
with a hearty grasp of the hand, and a
return of his peculiarly bright smile, he
nodded and went into the house.

Captain Grove turned back up St.
James's Street, and his thoughts, as he
walked, were rather vindictive. Lawrence
O'Brien marry Elizabeth Glendinnlng !

Never ! Of. all preposterous and displeasing
ideas, this was the most displeasing
which had ever been presented to him
And what a fool the man must be to talk
of it to Jim ! Or no ; probably it was his
own astuteness which rendered such confidences
possible. It was well in any case
that they had been made. And now, when
O'Brien came back from Scotland, he would
go to her with his proposal, and of course
she would accept him. " Not if I know
it," said Captain Grove to himself; and ashe
said them, the somewhat indefinite
words held as fierce an intention of having
his own way as the orthodox second
gentleman of tragedy could have expressed
in blank verse. It would be strange indeed

o

if he were less than a match for Lawrence
O'Brien.

Willingshurst, in Surrey. Willingshurst,
by Gillingham, surely he remembered.
Gillingham would be the station. Let
him get a railway guide.

And the next morning, when O'Brien,
wrapped in a thick coat, was being driven,
cold and wean*, across a stretch of heh
moors to CorriewhuiUie, Captain Grove
sat leaning back in a blue railway carriage.
between flying lines of field and lawn and
white-faced villas. In the minds of both
sting the vision of bliss Glendinning, who,
for her part, was strolling between her
uncle's garden-borders, gathering the late
roses, without any thought of either of
them.

CHAPTER II.

IN shrubs's wood.

'' True Thomas lay on Huntley bank,
A ferlie spied he wi' his ee ;
There he saw a lady bright

Come riding down by the Eldon tree.

Now maim yc go wi' me she said 
Now, Thomas, ye mani go wi' me ;

And ye maun serve me seven years,
Through weal or woe, as may chance to be.' "
Thomas tic Rhymer.

Orlando Sherborne, to whom Is destined
the first tenor's part In this tale, lay outstretched
beneath a clump of trees, looking
up through their foliage to the sky. The
birds sang above him In the summer air,
and a rippling dance-melody ran in the
background of his memory and set his

thoughts to measure. His thoughts were
of the kind to which some such accompaniment,
pleasant, but not too pronounced,
makes a fitting framework, as the grass
and copse made a fitting framework for
the young figure stretched out in happy)'
indolence. He was one and twenty'. and
this was the last month of the honos



vacation in his third year at college.
Beside him lay an open book, upon whose
face his one hand rested, and on his lips
sat the peculiar smile of youth, neither
wholly wistful nor triumphant, but touching
the edo-e of both moods  the smile of

o

possibility which haunts true medieval
art sometimes and modern mediaeval art
always. The book was the Od)'sse}'. in
an Oxford Pocket Classic edition. It bore
Orlando's name on its first page ; its
corners were worn to roundness, and it
was marked in sundry places with ink-spots
and marginal notes. For a time its charm

had kept his thoughts salHng with Ulysses
on the unknown seas. But, after a time,
the young present asserted its superiority
to the far-distant past. The unknown seas
of Homer gave way to the unknown
expanses of an individual life ; the name
within the book became more potent than
the title on its back, and the figure whom
his dreamy musings encircled was called no
longer Odysseus, but Orlando. The visions
of craft, force, and struggle yielded place
to those of peace and order, and 'a life
that leads melodious days.' His were
those visions of every man's youth, in
which he sees himself walking the world
like a king. The accompanying homage,
however, which fills so large a place in
the dreams of so many of us, held, in
Orlando's, none at all. His ideal complete
self had no attribute of a knight-errant,
riding brilliant through the world,
deserving and winning applause. His

aspiration was rather to be noble than
to do o-reat deeds. He would be content
in all simplicity with doing his duty in that
state of life to which it should please God
to call him. And if that state should be
one involving martyrdom, he was of a
nature to go to his martyrdom quietly,
serene within himself, and untroubled
by considerations of praise, blame, or
oblivion.

As some men train their bodies, and some
develop their minds, so it was Orlando's
desire to cultivate his soul. Born to a
place whose duties he was fitted to perform,
he would work out his life into one serene,
full whole, careless of fame, content with
the love (which could not fail to follow
such a life) of a few. Circumstance and
nature had done much for him ; it behoved
him to see that he did not waste their
gifts. To a fine nature food fortune, like
noble births brings obligations. Those

lines, which lend themselves so readily to
mockery 

Not more than others I deserve,
But God has given me more '

may be taken nobly as well as meanly ;
and so taken, they formed the ground-bass
to that harmonious fugue into which
Orlando's day-dreams grew. Distinction
was not for him ; to take his degree with
ordinary success was the outside limit of
his hopes. He had long since confessed
that to himself frankly, although by no
means without regret. Even now, as his
thoughts turned that way, a shadow fell
upon his face ; but it was as fleeting asa
bird's passage across a clear sky, and
was followed by a keener smile as his reflections
dropped into another channel. Was
not love, after all, better than distinction
? A vision floated before him of
the perfectly good, true, and beautiful
woman whose love should be the completion

of his life. He surrounded her
with a halo of all imaginary perfections ;
yet her idea remained but vague, ready
to be fitted to whatever external shape
fortune might decree. Indistinct as the
image was, his thoughts dwelt long upon
it. He closed his eyes against the outer
world, that he might have it the nearer.
Presently he laid a sunburnt hand across
his eyelids, on which the dancing sunlight
flickered. The other hand, lying on the
book, relaxed ; the pages fluttered slowly
upward ; the morning grew stiller and stiller
towards the noon.

In the same copse Captain Grove was
walking with a Gracefully dressed and
beautiful young woman.

Quite a flying visit," she was saying.

'' Yes ; I must go back this afternoon.
And  who knows ?  I may very likely be
abroad before you come back to town.
My people have been wanting me to take

VOL. I. C

a very good Indian appointment, and,
under certain circumstances, perhaps I
might. If so, I should almost certainly
be away from London when you come
home."

''Oh, I hope not," said the lady, in a
tone of friendly concern.

He had watched her narrowly. At
these words he dropped his gaze, and
answered slowly, " I am not sure that
I do."

She lifted her eyes, and looked at him
with a slight, perplexed raising of her
delicate eyebrows. An incredulous smile
held her lips in momentary pause, then
passed into a little laugh as she said,
lightly, " That is hardly a compliment,
is it?"

'' I did not mean it for a compliment.
It is just the truth. It does make me
unhappy, always. I come, longing to see
your face again, and the moment I see it,

it fills me with pain, because it tells me so
plainly that I am nothing to you."

She looked down and made no answer.
Her colour had grown a little deeper, but,
on the whole, her countenance expressed
rather surprise than emotion. His face,
too, changed a little, trrowinQ a trifle
keener and more intent.

*' And if it is so," he went on, 'ras you do
not deny that it is, is it not better that I
should see as little of you as may be ? I
know my own weakness ; if I were where
it was possible to come to you, I should
come. And I have taken pride in being
thought a reasonable man. I don't care to
make a fool of myself in people's eyes,
Bliss Glendinning  and I should."

Miss Glendinning still looked before her
in silence, and at last murmured, "It seems
so strange to hear you talk like that."

Captain Grove was not the man to
damage his cause by overhasty speaking ;

he remained silent, looking at her, and the
silent gaze presently forced her to speak
again.

 Turning her face towards him with a
kind of defiance, " Plow could I suppose,"
she asked, '' that I was anything to you ? "

Surely, surely, you must have known
that, always."

She kept her eyes fixed earnestly
upon his face, as if seeking there some
deeper tone of truth than sounded in his
words. Her beauty was very great, but
hardly more awake to love than that of
Pygmalion's statue in its first completion.

*' No," she said, quite quietly.

She had not at all calculated her manner.
Neither her speech nor her silence
had been dictated by the desire to lead
him on, but if she had had such a desire,
she could have adopted no course of conduct
more likely to succeed.

*' You are everything to me  everything,"

he returned, In a tone which was either of
i'enulne passion or of something so deathlike
it that he himself believed It genuine.
Am I blind, that I should overlook you ?
There Is no woman like you In London 
no, not In England. I never thought of
marrying  I'm not a marrying man  but
if you would marry me, I would give half
my life to win you."

Butj'//f " said the girl, with a return
to the lowered shyness of her former
speech. "Somehow, I never thought ""

There was no need to tell it to all
London, was there ? " said Captain Grove,
almost fiercely.

Throui-diout the scene the note of
tenderness had been strangely wanting
from his speech. Probably she felt the
want ; she looked at him with a new
trouble dawnluQ: through the calmness
of her face, and asked slow', with appealing
eyes, " Do you really love me ? "

He snatched lier hand and laid It
against his cheek. " Love you ! Oh,
Elizabeth, don't torture me."

She doubted no longer ; she began to
tremble ; for a moment she seemed In
terror.

He, seeing the change, said hurriedly',
Don't answer now. Let me come again
in a week."

'' No, wait a moment," she answered.

She walked a few steps forward, and
stood with her back towards him, her
hands clasped and her eyes looking fixedly
before her. She stood so, perhaps, a
minute, which to him, as he waited, seemed
immeasurable. How should she answer ?
she asked herself. The question had
come upon her altogether unexpectedly
thunder from a clear sky. It was an
honour, there could be no doubt of that  a
triumph. What a surprised shock would
A., B., and C. receive. If they could know

that Captain Grove had asked her to
marry him ! And he did love her. That
was so strange, so impossible to realize.
She had never dreamed of this. Captain
Grove was in a measure the acknowledged
autocrat of the circle which made Elizabeth
Glendinning's world ; she had no more
thought of him as a possible husband than
if he had been a king, indeed. Certainly
there was no one else whose Avowing could
so uplift her in her own eyes  yes, and in
the eyes of others, too. Should she say
yes ' to him ? She would never find
any other man whom she would be so
proud to marry. And she began to see
that she miQht be a fittings wife to him.
No, it was, after all, not so strange that he
should love her. The pained, frightened
look passed into a triumphant smile. She
turned and saw him standing waiting for
her. She measured him with her eyes as
she came slowly towards him. He was

not the handsomest man whom she knew,
but his appearance had, she thought, a
character of unexceptionably to which
more of absolute brood looks would have
been rather an injury than an assistance.
He advanced a step towards her and left
his face to ask his question. She met him
with a clear gaze, in which something of
the elation still lingered, and giving him
her hand, said simply, '' If you think I can
make you happy, I will try."

Her lover received this answer with no
enthusiastic demonstration of his gladness.
He found himself overcome, to his own
surprise, by an emotion of reverent, almost
remorseful tenderness.

And is your happiness," he asked,
gently, " to count for nothing ? "

She, still looking up at him with clear,
serious eyes, answered, *' I trust that to
you."

*you safely may; you never shall repent

-0

It," he fervently returned. His fervour
was an astonishment to himself', and
brought with it a pleasant sense of his
own earnestness and devotion.

Elizabeth heard him with a faint smile,
and said 

' Bin doch ein arm' imwissend Kind,
Begreife night was er an mir finder.' "

Her tone was one in which many shades
of feeling melted together, as the notes
mingle in a full chord.

Captain Grove had an impression of
having heard the words before, and wished
that he could recollect the character of the
context in which they appeared. He had
an uncomfortable idea that her humility
was but half sincere, and fancied he discerned
in it a tone of mischief which he
scarcely knew how to meet. His pleasant
momentary thrill of self-forgetfulness
withered at once, and left him once more
governed chiefly by the desire to say the

most fitting thing. He said, therefore,
with a careful Gentleness, '' Your looking
might tell you."

And Elizabeth, looking meditatively
before her, thought in all seriousness that
perhaps it might.

'' I shall go back to London happy now,"
he proceeded.

And sou won't be away, perhaps, when
Ave come back ? " said Elizabeth, with a
laugh in her eyes.

"No, indeed ; not if I can possibly help
it. But even if I am, I shall not be unhappy,
for I have your promise."

Yes. I don't knows  it seems to me
so odd that this should have happened."

You don't wish to draw back ? "

No ; oh no. I mean no more than that
it is strange to me. And so f//af was what
brought you down here ? "

It was."

"You must have grown suddenly impatient.
How funny ! "

A prick, not exactly of conscience, but
rather of uneasy recollection, kept Captain
Grove from finding a ready answer.

' Will you come up and see papa ? "
Miss Glendinning asked, after a moment

or two.

-No; the fact is Could you forgive

me, if I asked you to let our talk remain a
secret between ourselves for the next week
or two ? "

It was scarcely possible to know in what
point Elizabeth's face changed, but its
change expressed a fine shade of dissatisfaction
; and the same expression tinged
her voice as she answered, " Of course it
shall, if you wish it."

'' I will tell )'ou why. I don't know that
there is very much in it, perhaps. My
uncle, you see, regards himself as the head
of the family ; he would expect to be told
first of any such matter ; and if I could put
it off till I could see him myself, it would

be much better. You see, there Is no
telling in what temper a letter may find a
man. And a man of his property really
has a natural right to expect special consideration
from his relations."

'' Yes, I suppose so," Elizabeth answered,
so demurely that the flavour of irony escaped
his ear. " Oh yes ; I should think it would
be much better to wait."

In her heart she added, " He might have
waited before he came to me." Another
inward voice whispered, ''He could bear
to wait no longer," and her calm gaze
melted into something gentler. She began
to realize more plainly that this man beside
her held her as a precious thing in his life,
and could not endure to risk a chance of
delay or failure In making her his own.
Strange !  and sweet. An ashamed feeling
of her own unsympathetic dulness overcame
her ; a vast expanding tenderness
stirred and rose In her heart like the returning

swell of a warm spring. Captain
Grove, as he watched the beautiful face
slowly awakening from its self-contained
quiet to a new world of emotion, felt, perhaps,
the keenest thrill of triumph which
his somewhat thin experience of life had
yet brought to him.

He answered her deep gaze with an
elated smile, and Elizabeth, meeting it,
vowed within herself that since the power
to call up that smile and that glad light of
rejoicing was indeed hers, no word or look
from her should ever cause them to fade
disappointed. How if she could have
known the thought which gave its crowning
zest to that elation ? For he, meanwhile,
had before his eyes the vision of a keen
young face turned towards him in anxious
question, and in his ears rang poor Lawrence
O'brien words: "What do you
think, Grove ? Do you think I have any
chance ?" Where was Lawrence O'Brien's.

chance now ? When would he, with all his
money and his youth and his good looks,
win such a gaze as this from Elizabeth
Glendinnino- ?

His triumph was disturbed by no touch
of shame or of remorse. Shame, With him,
needed the acid of another's knowledge to
bring it to effervescence, and in Elizabeth's
eyes lay no shadow of mistrust. She was
rather exalting him by ashamed comparison
with the poorness of her own feeling.

'' I Avill try," she said again, softly.
Then, after a moment's pause, '' I think I
am glad it is not to be spoken of at once.
I want to get used to it. I think, please, I
will go home ; I want to be by myself a
little. You don't mind, do you ?"

The tone of submissive appeal was inexpressibly
satisfying to him. It was
wonderful, he thought, how well she suited
him. The fitting reply came easily enough
now.

Not mind ? " he answered, smiling.
'' Why, of course I mind. I should Whenever
to have you out of my sight."

Again Elizabeth returned that deepened
look which uttered, in its noblest kind, the
' illness at ease of tenderness under a love
which it cannot return.'

She paused, irresolute. But Captain
Grove, for all his liking to have her in his
sight, had no real intention of keeping her
beside him. Perhaps he, too, felt something
of her desire to be alone, and to
examine this newly turned page of his life
unwatched by interested eyes. And the
very fulness of her faith in him, which gave
a sense of ease in her presence, brought also
a contradictory sense of restraint, by reminding
him at every turn that it existed
and that it might be destroyed. The two
had once more paused and were standing
face to face ; he with his easily worn smile,
she with her grave eyes, and with the

pathetic line of lip which belongs so often
to the best type of beauty, and carries to the
heart of the unaccustomed beholder a self-reproachful
pang like that evoked by the
frightened eyes of an animal : like an animal's
terror in this, too, that it acts as an
incentive to the human instinct of cruelty.

*' Good-bye, then," said Elizabeth ; and
thinking that the words sounded cold  as,,
indeed, they had no special warmth  she
added, " When shall I see you again ? "

*ras soon," he replied, *' as I possibly can
manage."

His tone was rather self-satisfied than
ardent. He drew his hand across the
smooth waves of her hair, and bending her
head a little backward, kissed her forehead
with a quiet air of taking possession, and
of rather congratulations himself in the
spirit of little Jack Horner. Elizabeth
underwent the ceremony quietly, and as
their faces parted, drew back a little, and

gave him her hand exactly as she would
have done before this meeting. Then
again she felt herself remiss, and looked
up with a deprecating smile that was
tender, apologetic, self-depreciating  everything
that can be said in words of the
smile a man would have from the
woman he loves, but which yet, if it had
been even to Orlando, would have smitten
him to the heart with the achilles certainty
of despair. Captain Grove gave back a
smile of triumph, and again she was glad
in her power of making him happy.

'' But may I not come with you ? " he
asked.

She paused and said, '' I would rather
not."

Words are the least part of the speech
which we utter to one another. Those
Insignificant five syllables of answer might
have borne any shade of meaning, from
the haughtiest denial to a sweeter assent

VOL. T. D

than "Yes." As she spoke them, they
expressed a real preference, but a preference
which submitted itself absolutely
to his. No tone could have been more
pleasing to him. A little motion of the
head, courteous and graceful, uttered on
his side that her preference was law,
and the softest shade of gravity betokened
his regret. He stood still,
watching the passage of her light figure
under the sudden shadows of this or that
farther-reaching bough, till she came out
into the broad sunshine of the open
meadow, making a third brightness between
the blue and the green. Then,
lifting his chin a little, he laid his hand
across his eyes, and suffered his smile to
expand.

The copse was crescent-shaped, and the
pathway, after traversing the intervening
patch of meadow, dipped again into the
second horn. The trees stood for the

most part close at the edge of the path ;
at one spot only, a little amphitheatre of
turf came between, and it was here that
Orlando lay. His dim, sweet musings had
slipped insensibly into sleep, from which
the sound of ]\Iiss Glendinning's approach
aroused him. He opened his eyes, and in
the border-land between sleep and waking,
received a vision which seemed the embodiment
and continuation of his dreams.
As yet, his mind was not free from the
dream-atmosphere in which the whole personality
is concentrated into observation.
He lay still, with wide-open eyes, watching
her as she drew nearer. She came along
in a thin line of light, between two lines of
shadow that seemed to fall away from
her as she moved ; her light dress touched,
rustling, against the thin tufts of herbage
that grew up between the ruts and round
the deep hoof-marks of the way. Her
mind was at the very opposite pole of

feeling from Orlando's. He was absorbed
in watchfulness of her ; she, equally forgetful
of all outer things, was entirely immersed
in her own thoughts. She was-quite
unconscious of any second presence,
and her face wore the aspect of self-communion
which it is impossible, knowingly,
to wear under the observation of another.
Come suddenly on whom you will, friend,
enemy, or casual acquaintance, you will
catch of that expression only the retreating
weave of its garment, a momentary confusion
of images as the magic-lantern slide-shifts.


This change came suddenly to Miss
Glendinning. Recognition of an observer's
presence sprang into her face, and took the
form of a slackening of expression. Her
deep, dreamy eyes, awaking to the actual,
became merely perceptive ; her step took
more precision ; the grave line of her
mouth relaxed into greater indifference.

A reflected change fell upon Orlando.
Self-consciousness returned to him also. He
remembered that he was lying carelessly
upon the ground; that his hair had all fallen
back from his forehead, and was probably
very untidy ; that his tie was out of place,
and that crawling things were making him
their promenade-ground. He started up,
shook himself and stood, flushed and confused,
looking mute apology. Miss ,
havens bestowed on him a balance
of cursory interest as on a creature observed
in an unlikely habitat, withdrew her
eyes and passed on. If she had been
asked whom she had passed on the road,
she would probably have answered, " A
schoolboy ; " and if Orlando could have
heard such a question so answered, his
undergraduate indignation might have sufficed
to stifle the admiration which set
Elizabeth Glendinning's face from that
day in the centre of his dreams.

CHAPTER III.

AT A Dinner-party.

Any one watching keenly' the stealthy convergence of
human lots, sees a slow preparation of effects from one
life on another, which tells like a calculated irony on the
indifference or the frozen stare with which we look at our
introduced neighbour. Destiny stands by sarcastic,
with our dramatis person! folded in her hand."  .


The changes of society's customs are slow,
and seem superficial. It is only in comparing
times divided by a long interval of
years that a significant difference can be
perceived. Looking back on the day 
somewhere among the later sixties of this
century  when Orlando Sherborne lay
dreaming in Willingshurst plantation, a
swarm of such differences rise, circling in

the memory like moths shaken out from an
old garment. To Orlando, when he looks
back, as to Orlando's chronicler, that time
seems to have been somewhat easier and
less urgent than this. Politically, all Europe
was at a different stage of growth.
Pius IX. was still in the Vatican, Victor
Emmanuel at Florence, and Queen Isabella
in Spain. France had lain quiet for fifteen
years or so with the same hand upon her
neck, and imperial Prussia had only
lately evinced, at Sadowa, the possession
of an army and a leader. In England,
reigned, on the whole, an optimist spirit
of peace, and a prosperity less feverish
than that which followed. The very toys
of life were pursued more easily. Croquet
was in its early prime  a relaxation still,
rather than a science. Lawn-tennis was
not. Art furniture, art-needlework, and
artistic dress, those three despots of to-day,
were in their veriest infancy, cherished only

by an eccentric few ; while the potent word
esthetic possessed as yet no spell. It was,
perhaps (to use another of to-day's shibboleths),
a Philistine time, but its Philistinism
was supine, and imposed a lighter yoke than
the Israelitish which has succeeded. So,
at least, it seems to Orlando, to whom in
those days life looked plain and easy,
as a path seen distinctly on a far hill,
that grows vague and confused upon
approach.

He came up from that copse of sweet
dreams, resolved to discover the name by
which his final and fairest vision was
known amonof men. Willlno-shurst was
no more his home than it was Elizabeth's ;
he was merely spending there a fortnight
of his ' Long ' with a college friend.

To this friend  Arthur Rendell  he
took an early opportunity of carrying his
question.

" Who," he asked, '' would a very pretty

girl be, whom I saw just now in Shrubs's
Wood ? "

Arthur, inclining his head slowly from
side to side, like a meditative stork, repeated,
" A pretty girl ? There isn't a
pretty girl in the parish  except Tottie."

It wasn't Miss Rendell. And she was
more than pretty ; she was the most beautiful
girl I ever saw in my life."

'' She may have been one of the villagers,
you know," Arthur suggested.

But Orlando scouted the suggestion, on
the ground that he knew a lady when he
saw her.

Arthur, upon this, could only say he
didn't know, and Orlando's question remained
unanswered.

But a few days later a dinner-party was
given in the neighbourhood, to which he
was invited.

As he came into the room, no thought
was with him of his unknown beauty :

such visions, although they may make the
crises by which to write the history of a
Hfe, have by no means an ever-present
influence among its superficial comings
and goings. The room seemed full. His
eye fell upon the familiar faces of the vicar
and his wife, and upon a young man who
was supposed to admire Miss Rondel
The futile, before-dinner talk was flowing
feebly, while the hostess glided gently,
an amalgamating influence, from group to
group. Orlando, in his turn, was led
across the room to a young lady whose
face was bent down over an album. The
introduction, '' Mr. Sherborne  Miss Glen-dining,"
followed, falling upon expectant
ears, a prelude to much.

Miss Glendinninof lifted her face, smiled,
and bowed. Orlando, with a sharp stab
of pleasure, recognized the lady of Shrubs's
Wood. Her beauty struck him afresh,
with a kind of venerating wonder. Yet

not in the beauty, as beauty, lay, he thought,
its power on him, but in some individual
indescribable characteristic, to which something
akin in himself answered, as a harp's
note answers to a voice speaking beside it.
He felt as if his Avhole soul lay open, transparent
as water, beneath the direct gaze
of her clear eyes ; and his memory paused,
suddenly, to feel back across the years into
some other life, when, surely, some strong
union had been between them.

In the first glance of youth upon a new
face there is always something of search and
appeal, a desire of finding recognition and
fellowship. For every introduction to a new
acquaintance is like lifting the cover of a
new book, known to us as yet only by its
binding, and in youth we are always ready
to hope that the unopened volume may
contain our own story. With Orlando this-curiosity
can scarcely be said to have existed
in regard to Miss Glendinning, since

the moment of first slsfht had answered
and appeased it. She, on the other hand,
although accustomed to a wider and colder
range of society, where the lesson of indifference
is soon learned, wore pretty
clearly the expression of such a feeling.
She had, in fact, a little gentle cause for
special interest, whose roots lay in a stratum
of emotion far removed from his. The silene
double oaze lasted but a moment. The
strongest emotion, like the keenest dream,
can go through the mind with the swiftness
of a sword-stroke, leaving behind again the
everyday wakefulness to everyday things.
Orlando was ready, before Miss Blending
had yet felt a pause, to strike some
indifferent, tentative note of conversation.

Do you know Willingshurst well ? "
he asked, speaking with two distinct
currents of consciousness running parallel
in his soul, like a red and a blue stream of
light falling through adjacent panes of a
stained window.

I have stayed here two or three times,"
she answered, " with my aunt and uncle."
Then, pushing the open book a Httle
towards him, " Have you seen this sketch
of the Roman villa at Sellingham ? You
see, this is all restored. I don't know
how much is really remaining."

Oh, a o-ood deal, I believe. It is said
to be the most complete specimen of pavement
in England. It is quite worth going-over
to see."

At this point came the general exodus
to the dining-room. They followed Mrs.
Rendell. Her escort was a stranger to
Orlando, and therefore interesting the
possible uncle of Miss Glendinning. He
was an elderly man whose appearance
might justify the epithet  usually so inapplicable
to elderly men  graceful.
Orlando, observing him, thought, first, that
there would be nothing inappropriate in
such a man's relationship to the beautiful

girl on his arm, and secondly, that he was
sure he discerned a likeness between them.
This, indeed, might well be, since he
afterwards discovered that the person
so scrutinized was not her uncle, but her
father.

In this little pause from speech it recurred
to his memory that a schoolfellow of
his sister's had borne the name of Glen-dining.
This might possibly be she ; and
if so, how delightful a ground for more
intimate acquaintance. When they were
seated, and dinner had well beoun, he
turned to put his question, and found that
she also had turned to him, and was also
in act to speak.

I think," she said, " it must have been
your sister who was a great friend of mine
at school  Millie Sherborne."

'' Yes," replied Orlando, with a smile of
much pleasure. " I was just going to say
so to you. I have very often heard her

Speak of you." And his memory added
that the speech had all been praise.

'' Oh yes, we were great friends. She
was lonely at school at first, and I think it
was a comfort to her when she took tome."


Orlando's fancy, enlarging the bareness
of her words by the possibilities of her
face, saw her playing the part of a consoling
angel to poor, indulged, dominion-loving
Millie. A young man's visions,
built on such a basis, are apt to be unreliable,
but for once they where pretty nearly
In harmony with the truth.

"And Is she quite well ? " Miss Glen-dining
asked. "Where is she? Not at
Willingshurst ? "

Oh no ; she is at home, with my father,
at Sherborne."

And I suppose she is quite happy .
She always used to say she would be when
she left school."

Yes, I think she is. Certainly she has
entirely her own way, which, I think,
counts for a good deal with Millie."

'with most of us," said Miss Glen-dining.


At this moment occurred one of those
sudden silences which are apt to fall
unaccountably upon a party of busy talkers,
and these two fell into silence with the
rest. The vicar, practical Christian that
he was, threw himself boldly into the gap,
and the waves began to flow again.
Orlando, however, did not find his speech
so easily return. Miss Glendinning was
giving her attention to the man beyond
her, and he was not sorry to pause and
grow accustomed to her presence. To sit
thus, silent, among many speakers is a
position which has its peculiar charm. It
might be a nice point to consider whether
more pleasure may be found in being
consciously sought or being unintentionally

forgotten and left to observe, unobserved
and unfettered by any debt of attention.

The observation of Orlando was directed
almost wholly upon his beautiful neighbour.
He tried, for the first time, to look at
her critically. Her face was turned
from him, leaving him the curved outline
of her cheek and an inimitably graceful
line of neck. Some anecdote was being
told to her ; a slight movement showed
him the extremest profile of her chin
and smiling lips. Few indeed are the
faces which will endure prolonged scrutiny
in that point of view, bringing into relief,
as it does, every defect of mouth, nose,
or outline of face. Elizabeth's, however,
seemed to him, even thus, more beautiful
than any but her own, turned full. As the
tale closed she broke into a light, low laugh
that, in Orlando's ears, was indescribably
harmonious. She turned aoain towards
him, and took up their broken-off talk.

VOL. I. E

Did you say you had seen the remains.
at Sellingham, Mr. Sherborne ? "

'' No ; I had only heard about them. I
mean to see them, if I can. It seems a
wasting of opportunities, doesn't it, not
to oo when one is so near ? "

*' It does, rather. I think I must make
papa ride over with me."

'' Oh, then she has a father at WilHngs-
hurst?" thought Orlando. His eyes;
travelled round the table, and Miss Glen-dining,
observing him, said quietly 

That is my father on the other side of
Mrs. Rendell."

*' You know Mrs. Rendell ?"

'' I have met her. I know Miss.
Rendell."

I am staying with them, you know."

** Oh, are you ? I didn't know. You
are quite near us, then. I wonder that we
have not met before."

*ewe have," said Orlando, conscious of

a little mortification. '' I saw you on Wednesday
morning in Shrubs's Wood."

*' Did you ? Yes, I remember now ;
I did pass some one in the wood, but I
Wasn't paying much attention. I hardly
noticed."

Her thoughts went away again. She
sank into a short silence, and presently
roused herself from it with a little shake
and a sigh, saying, " It is a pretty little
bit of wood, isn't it ? But it is prettiest
in the spring. You should see the quantities
that there are of primroses and
anemones."

'' You speak as if you were fond of the
spring flowers ? "

"Yes, I am. I so seldom see them
growing. We are in London generally
in the spring. I happened to be here for
Easter this year, and my cousin and I
rode through. Afterwards, we came down
assail to oet a lot for the church. We 

I mean all of us from my uncle's
decorated our chancel by ourselves, all
with wild-flowers."

And so on. Why report their
words any further? Has it. not been said
already that our words make the smallest
part of our speech ? Why reproduce
talk which touched no deep notes of
feeling, opinion, or principle, but which yet
sufficed to establish between two young
people a ground of sympathy, liking, and
approval ? Look back  if your memory
yet retains the record to your own first
conversation with the nearest and dearest
of your friends. It is enough to say that
Orlando received the impression of an exquisite
fitness, grace, and harmony. To
him it appeared that her every tone and
motion had chimed in fine accord with
some preconceived ideal of his own. Who
shall decide how far in such a case the
woman does indeed accord with the ideal,

and how far It is the ideal which accords
itself to her ?

Elizabeth passed away to the drawing-room
; Orlando was left to try and recall
her features and her tones. What a waste
of time, he thought, to sit here, needlessly
imbibing wine and hearing these country
gentlemen enunciate slowly their commonplace
opinions ! This was not, it may be
noted, a usual mood with him. Nothing-was
further from Orlando's nature, or more
repugnant to his habits of thought, than
the small customary cynicism, the spirit
of petty arrogance, through whose medium
so many young men see the world a desert
and their fellow-creatures fools. He was
glad, however, to observe, amid his misanthropy,
that Miss Glendinning's father spoke
little and by no means dogmatically, but
with a gentle, deprecatory air, as who should
say, '' I speak, of course, under correction."
When at last the moment arrived for

migration to the drawing-room, it need
hardly be said that his first glance was one
of search for Miss Glendinning. She was
sitting by an elderly lady of dignified
appearance. On her other hand was an
empty chair, to which he immediately
advanced. She received him with a smile,
and said 

I have been talking to my aunt about
Sellingham. This, is Mr. Sherborne,
auntie  my aunt. Lady Mary Oakes. She
suggests making a party to drive over and
picnic in the park."

"We have been intending to go for
quite a long time," said Lady Mary, " but
I thought we would wait until Elizabeth
was with us. We must see what day will
suit your uncle, my dear. It is a pity
Gilbert is not at home ; he knows all about
it, and would have explained it all. He
is so good at anything of that kind."

Yes ; but I dare say we shall find our
way," Elizabeth answered.

'sand so you are Miss Sherborne's
brother ? " Lady Alary continued, turning*
again to Orlando. " How very nice, now,
happening to meet in this way ! I trust
your sister is very well ? "

'' Thank you, yes'' said Orlando.

And as pretty as ever, I suppose ? I
remember Elizabeth pointing her out tous
at Miss Maxwell's. I know we thought
her decidedly the prettiest girl in the
house."

Orlando glanced involuntarily at Elizabeth,
but her face expressed no dissentient
claim.

And are you making a long stay here ?
I trust wee may have the pleasure of seeing
you at The Oaks. Isn't it odd, now, our
house happening to be called that ? It
was called The Oaks before we came into
the neighbourhood ; and really, as my
husband said, it could not have been
named more appropriately."

She smiled so benignantly that Orlando-was
obliged to smile too. Then, returning
upon her original starting-point  as she
had a happy knack of doing  she pursued,
*' Let me see ; did you tell me how long
you would be here ? "

Until the middle of next week, I think."

*' And you will remember The Oaks,.
won't you ? "

'' Thank you ; oh yes."

And then we must arrange some day
for Sellingham, you know. Just a nice little
party. Let me see ; ourselves, and you,,
and young Rendell and his sister. Isn't she
another pretty girl, Mr. Sherborne ? Oh,
and of course we must ask Mr. Wheelwright.
Now, Mr. Sherborne, of course
you can tell us  are they really engaged ?
You'll think me a terribly gossipping old
woman, I dare say ; but I assure you it is
only kindly gossip that I like. I'm always
pleased to hear of any good happening

to anybody. Of course, if anything bad
should happen, it is as well to know that
too, because, if not, one might say the
wrong thing by mistake, you know."

But I assure you that I am not at all
in Miss Rendell's confidence," said Orlando.
I have no doubt you know a great deal
more about her than I do."

Ah, now you are sarcastic ; as much as
to tell me that I am interfering. But I am
hardened, you know  quite hardened ; my
husband tells me that every day of my
life."

Orlando, with rather unnecessary vehemence,
protested his innocence of any sarcastic
meaning. !

The vicar now came up.

Miss Glendinning, I have been trying
to speak to you ever since we came in.
How are you, after the fatigues of your
fashionable life ? Delighted to welcome
you to Willingshurst once more." He

smiled and shook hands with her. '' And
how is your cousin ? Away again, I
hear. What a wanderer he is ! You
should exert your influence to keep him
with us  you should, indeed."

I am afraid I should rather use it to
oet taken with him. His letters have
made us quite in love with Norway. If
only papa were equal to the fatigue of it,
I should enjoy nothing more than such a
trip."

In Orlando's mind ran the vaguest of
dreams that he might marry her and take
her thither. Nearer and more distinct lay
a jealous curiosity concerning this often-mentioned
cousin.

The vicar, rocking himself gently forward
and backward, replied, ''If your idea
of Norway is so bright a one, you would
do well to avoid verification ; for, you know

'Tis distance lends enchantment to the view,
And paints yon heaven with its azure hue.'

You might find many disadvantages upon
a nearer acquaintance."

'' Yes, very likely. I had better try and
think so, since I cannot go."

Your cousin is Lady Mary's son ? "
said Orlando.

Yes, her only son. I wish you had
met him ; everybody likes him," answered
Elizabeth, who was of course in happy
ignorance of Lawrence O'Brien's opinion.

Orlando, however, could not feel any
strong desire for Mr. Oakes s acquaintance.
It seemed decidedly preferable to imagine
him in Norway without Elizabeth, rather
than in Willingshurst with her.

'' My dear," said Lady Mary, laying her
hand on Elizabeth's, " Mrs. Farnham is so
anxious to hear you play that very pretty
thing of Schumann's that you played at her
house in the spring."

'' Oh, please, if you can remember it,"
pleaded Mrs. Farnham from Lady Mary's
left.

Elizabeth rose and went to the piano.
Orlando followed. Music was one of the
many points concerning which he was
fastidious ; a coarse or harsh performance
would have been a  shock from which his
young admiration might not, perhaps, have
recovered. He was not, however, put to
the test. Miss Glendinning's music was,
like herself, quite up to society's standard,
but in a line a little aside. In all her
words and acts she seemed to refer to some
private measure of her own, following the
customs round her 'with a difference.'
You felt that she followed them, not because
others did, but because they accorded with
her own Inner law, and were assured that
in a moment of emergency, intuition, not
imitation, would be her guide. So, though
she played the same music as her contemporaries,
and with about the same degree
of skill, she did not play exactly as they
did. A music-master might have complained

that her own thought shone through,
where she should have sought only to
convey the composer's, but to a lover s ear
the interpretation was all the sweeter for
breathing of herself.

As she rose from the piano, she was
absorbed into a group of ladies, and Orlando
could but watch her from afar. Nor did
he again hear her voice until she bade him
good night, and begged him to give her
love to rylillie when he should next write.

'rand you'll remember The Oaks, won't
you, Air. Sherborne ? " said Lady Mary,
nodding and smiling as she passed him.

Orlando, it need hardly be said, assured
her fervently that he would.

Elizabeth, when she walked into her
uncle's house, saw a letter awaiting her.
A slight flush came into her cheek. She
took it up. The writing was unfamiliar ;
she was sure it must be Captain Grove's.

** You saw your letter, Lizzie ? " said her

uncle, as she came with her aunt and father
into the room where he was sitting.

"Yes, uncle, thank you," she answered.
But she did not open it. She held it in
her hand, beneath her cloak, and felt the
pulses of her fingers throb faster against it.

Alone in her own room she read it, the
slow red deepening in her face. It was
a letter of no special import. A woman,,
whose susceptibilities love had sharpened,,
might well have felt it cold. To Elizabeth
the mere beginning and ending 
My dearest Elizabeth,' ' Yours ever, E.
Grove '  breathed a warmth which almost
frightened her, and left her ashamed again
of being able to give so little in return.

And Orlando, meanwhile, was walking
up and down, sleepless, pausing now and
again to watch the slow travelling of the
moon, and haunted by a wailing melody of
Schumann's.

Truly, Destiny stands by, sarcastic.

CHAPTER IV.

ANTIQUITIES.

My love and I went hand in hand.
All under the green trees ;
The little birds in all the land
Were singing melodies.

And in their singing, all the birds,
Seemed, did but say.
How man, With all his deeds and words,
Doth quickly pass away ! "

A New Gan-land of Poesy.

Orlando, in his blindness, was of opinion
that Destiny  the mocker  was particularly
favourable to him. Had she not
o-ranted a link of interest between him and
Elizabeth ? Had she not caused Elizabeth's
aunt to smile upon him, and 
sweetest thought of all [permitted the

prospect of a happy day together at
Sellingham ? And happy indeed it was ;
a day to be looked back upon with tender
regret; sanctified by the memory, not of
events, but of tranquillity.

His way led him through Shrubs's
Wood. At one point of the path, he
paused. Here he had seen Elizabeth, a
week ago to-day. How far off and dim
seemed now the value lookinors onward
upon which her presence broke !  as faraway,
he thought, as a man's recollected
childhood. The very world he walked in
was altered by the knowledge that she was
in it. He knelt and gathered a leaf or
two of grass from the place where he had
lain. Some day, he thought, he might
show them to her, and tell her how she
had come upon his life like a bright dawn.
He was but one and twenty, recollect, and
was alone. The action, which has a touch
of the comic when it comes to be openly

recorded, wears a different significance to
youth and solitude. Not that Orlando
reflected upon the character of his action
at all. He shut the green blades into his
pocket-book and followed the path by
which she had gone. The sky was clear
above him ; the intensity of its blue had
begun to turn towards the paleness of
autumn, and the first autumn leaves were
beginning to change too, and to fall. A
soft breeze stirred in the warm air, and
lifted the scent of the second hay-crop
over the hedges.

Within the gates of The Oaks he
met Major Glendinning, slowly pacing the
lawn. Together, they passed through a
long window into the drawing-room, where
Lady Mary, her niece, and her two little
girls, were waiting. The group was one in
which a good portrait-painter might have
rejoiced. A strong likeness ran through
the four faces. Elizabeth's was the perfect

VOL. I. F

type, whose fine lines had a little lost their
definiteness in her aunt, and were yet incompletely
developed in her cousins. The
cousins were handsome children, slightly
built, tall, and of a bright fairness. They
were dressed alike. Orlando took them
to be twins, and was puzzled all day by
the difficulty of deciding which was Ida
and which was Maud.

Lady Mary received him with her usual
flow of amiable, if not very original, discourse.

What a delicious day, isn't it ? As I
said to my husband, we could not have
had a finer, if we had been able to choose.
Maudie dear, do get your papa to come in
from his grapes. My husband is so devoted
to his gardening, Mr. Sherborne  it
is quite a passion with him. And here
comes Miss Rendell. So pleased to see
you, my dear. And how is your mother ?
Mr. Wheelwright is keeping us all waiting.
How very improper ! Ah ! here you are.

George. And I see Mr. Wheelwright on
the lawn. Now we are all ready. If only-gilbert
could be here, to complete the
party ! Oh, thank you, Mr. Rendell. Yes,
it is my parasol. Thank you ; I certainly
should have left it behind. The waggonette
is ready, isn't it, George ? "

Orlando had drawn as near as he could
to Elizabeth, but her attention was occupied
by Miss Rendell, whose arm she now
drew, smilingly, through her own. He
followed them down the path, debating in
his mind the question whether it was more
desirable to sit next to the lady of your
admiration, or opposite to her. At dinner,
no doubt, it was advantageous to sit next
her, but how in a waggonette, with no
intervening barrier of dinner-table ? He
might, however, have spared himself so
much consideration, for when the time
came, no choice remained to him of sitting
at Miss Glendinning's side. He found

himself placed opposite to her, and Immediately
concluded, first, that this situation
was the best, and next, that he had never
at all appreciated her beauty until now.
Hers was not one of the faces in which
the tone of colouring is the most Impressive
characteristic. These, however
striking, are seldom, I think, the most
enduringly irresistible. The completely
fascinating faces are those which, like the
marbles of antiquity, leave no certain impression
of dark or light in hair or eyes ;
and are endowed, like them, with the
dower of presenting both aspects. Elizabeth
Glendlnnlng's was a face of this kind.
In bright sunshine, or beneath a glare of
pas, her hair would take all the wonderful
golden lights and liquid shadows of fairness,
and her eyes would glance up suddenly
with a bright transparency of depth
which left you in assurance of their blueness.
But In another mood, or beneath

another light, the framing waves of hair
were as dark as the shadows that fall on a
sunny day, and her deep eyes were like
those of a southern painter s saint.

No very distinct conversation was kept
up. The pleasant influences of sky, air,
and rapid motion brought on a serene,
silent content. Lady ]diary, indeed, maintained
a gentle monologue, and Ida and
Maudie exchanged little calls on each
other's attention, which had something of
the charm, and after a time something of
the monotony, of the chirping of two birds.
Orlando, perhaps, enjoyed the drive most,
having the gift of that deed love of nature
which is like in kind to the love of music.
And to-day the enjoyment was, as it
were, transfigured by the companionship
of Elizabeth.

As they went on, the day grew hotter,
the road whiter, and the edges of the
shadows sharper. At last the high-road,

with Its atmosphere of reflected heat, gave
place to the shade and greenness of the
park. A halt was made, a place chosen
for luncheon, and luncheon Itself fixed for
three-quarters of an hour later. Meanwhile
the party divided, and spread In
twos and threes about the shady slopes.

The two little cousins hovered round
Elizabeth.

There's a lake down here, Cousin
Lizzie."

*' Cousin Lizzie, come with us, won't
you ? "

She turned away accordingly, followed
by her pair of golden-haired satellites.
Orlando, hastening to join the nearer of
the children, asked 

Ls It a pretty lake ? "

Oh yes, lovely," she answered, looking
up with the pretty, childish face that was
an immature copy of Elizabeth's. " And
there are swans in It, and we have some

bread for them. Shouldn't you Hke to see
them ? "

Very much indeed;" said Orlando.

For a few moments the little girl walked
sedately by his side, until a call from her
sister invited her to race down the bank.
She flew off, and Orlando, quickening his
pace a little, came up with Miss Blending
They were on a steep, grassy slope,
bordered below by trees, and between the
trees shone the creams of water. The hillside
was rather slippery ; Elizabeth called
to the children to take care.

"Will yotc not take my hand?" asked
Orlando.

She shook her head, and, with a smile,
refused.

A yard or so lower down, he himself
slipped, and had a moment's difficulty in
regaining his footing. Miss Glendinning
caught his wrist. Both laughed, and she
said, lightly, " If I had trusted to you, you
would have pulled me down."

No ; I should have been more careful,
if I had felt you depending on me."

She smiled approvingly upon the quick
answer, almost as apt as one of Captain
Groves, and thought in herself how
pleasant a manner this brother of Millie's
had.

They came down upon a path which
rounded the lake. Trees arched above
them, and pushed their rough roots through
the shifting soil ; the lake rippled and
glimmered on their left, and the children
flitted to and fro between the lights and
shadows, like butterflies. The path sloped
slightly upwards, leaving an ever-heightening
bank between itself and the lake. To
Orlando's fancy it took a momentary
parable-likeness to the whole of life.

'' I feel as if we were walking in an
allegory," he said to Elizabeth.

She scarcely understood ; her face asked
for clearer exposition.

Here is our path of life, leading we
can't quite see where ; on each side of us
we can't quite see what, and above us a
sky that we can only see bits of, between
the branches."

Elizabeth rather liked the simile, and
carried it on.

'ein the spring, before the leaves came,
we could have seen more of it  and that
was the time of flowers, too ; and in the
winter, when they are gone again, it will
be most plainly visible of all. And what
are we ? "

The typical man and woman, perhaps,"
Orlando ventured to suSfest.

''No, now you are out of the line of
allegory There should be three characters
: the good spirit, the bad spirit, and
the soul between. The typical man and
woman belong to a different era altogether."


Orlando kept his next fancy to himself.

The children had momentarily disappeared
from sight, and it was as if he and his
companion were the only inhabitants of
this green island, cut off by the waters of
the lake from the rest of the world. Presently,
a rustle and a white motion on the
water drew their eyes that way. Ida came
into sight, clapping her hands and crying,
''Oh, the swans!"

She pushed her way through the bushes
to the lake's immediate edge. The others
followed. Here was a little space of grass,
treacherously thick and green. An old
willow, whose low-branching stems had left
a nest in their midst, offered a safer platform.
Among the slender, outgrowing
branches, dipped and floated a moored
boat ; and the leisurely swans sat, white,
upon the surface of the water, the sun
gleaming from their slowly stirring wings.
The children were among the willow stems
in a moment. Elizabeth, stepping lightly

to a level just below them, laid a hand on
each, and bade them take care.

Oh. Elizabeth, the swans won't see us [
Look, they don't come to the crumbs a bit.
It is these nasty little willows in the water.
We can't get to the real lake."

** I wish we could feet into the boat."

"/ could, if somebody would hold me.
I could walk along the branch and drop.
Do, Elizabeth, let us."

The boat would plop down when you
jumped in," said the sager Maudie.

'' Let me," said Orlando. '' I could reach
the cord of the boat from where you are
standing. I think that would be safe, Miss
Glendinning."

Ida scrambled back from her place
above the water, and Orlando, giving his
hat into her charge, went cautiously forward,
drew the boat nearer, and swung
himself into it. " Now, Miss Ida, if you
can walk along the branch, I can lift you
down."

The manoeuvre was accomplished, and
the children successfully handed from
Elizabeth in the tree to Orlando in the
boat. Elizabeth, being invited to follow,
declined to venture, and remained sitting
in the willow, looking like a modernized
tree nymph.

I wish I could paint," she said, presently,
as she sat watching the group
below : Ida standing, steadied by Orlando's
hand, throwing her bread with an eager
sweep of the arm ; Maudie seated, and
making, with less demonstration, a longer
cast ; between them Orlando, bareheaded,
the sun falling full upon his pleasant,
dark tinted face, and bringing brown lights
into his dark hair.

The swans had drawn doubtfully nearer,
and took the bread from as far off as they
could. Soon the supply was at end, but
the children were not yet tired of their
situation. They saw some forget-me-nots.

/ /

Could not the boat be drawn towards
them ? How was it there were no sculls ?
Orlando, leaning out to reach a distant
bough, With a full consciousness that he
would ver) possibly overbalance, drew the
boat's head towards the bank. Four eager
little hands thrust themselves among the
myosotis leaves, and drew back, startled
by the drop and plunge of a water-rat.
When their courage had returned, and all
the blue blossoms had fallen before them,
Orlando relaxed his hold, and the boat
swung slowly round, and lay oscillating in
its former place. But now Maudie complained
that the rocking made her giddy,
and Ida caught sight of a bush of blackberries,
as large and full as blackberries
are observed to become in marshy places.
A re-ascent was therefore made ; the children
gave their flowers to Elizabeth's care,
and scampered away to the new attraction
of the blackberries. Orlando swung himself

up, took back his hat, and seated
himself beside her, with a feeling that the
world could offer nothing pleasant than
this.

Elizabeth, too, was quite satisfied. As
she sat thus, among these peaceful surroundings,
her own future seemed tranquil
too. She was not imaginative, nor deeply
introspective. She did not anxiously compare
her own nature and Captain Grove s ;
she accepted what had come to her, easily,
and felt a quiet, unanalyzed trust that the
future would be acceptable in the same
manner. Of Orlando, except, perhaps, asa
figure in the background, her thoughts
took no reckoning at all. How strange
a revelation would the heart of each have
been to the other ! For she, in his, was
not only the foremost, but the only figure.
He was at the sweetest point of life's
development  the first bloom of consciously
awaking love. The question of

his love's return had hardly as yet begun
to trouble him. Without making clear the
feeling to himself, he vaguely trusted that
a power which had been strong enough to
alter the whole aspect of his world would
be strong enough also to work out its own
completion. The notion of Elizabeth's
engagement to another man would have
seemed a monstrous dislocation of nature's
order.

They sat thus, side by side, nursing
each a thought whose utterance would
have fallen like a thunderbolt among the
thoughts of the other ; happy and unconscious,
breathing a pleasant atmosphere
of ignorantly sympathetic liking.

The children came back from their
blackberry bush, and the four took their
way together to the place of luncheon.
Elizabeth was at once busy in the opening
and unpacking of baskets. Orlando found
himself in attendance on Lady Mary ;

there was no time for intimate talk, or even
for sustained observation. The meal had
the pleasant individuality, the petty mishaps,
and impromptu expedients which
give a charm to such occasions. Slight
witticisms, ready laughter, and happy-sounding
voices rose on the summer air,
and floated under the green arches of
softly stirring shade.

Orlando sat tranquilly by Elizabeth,
watching the serene beauty of her face, and
beginning to have hopes that his vicinity
was acceptable to her. As luncheon came
to an end, the plan of the afternoon was
discussed. The Roman remains. It appeared,
were situated about half-way between
the park and the village of Selling-ham.
The key would have to be inquired
for in the village, which lay on a well-kept
carriage road ; but the villa was to be
reached more easily by a footpath. The
party therefore divided ; Lady Mary and

her brother-in-law driving to the village,
while the others went, on foot, in search
of the Roman villa. The field-way by
which they went was narrow, and often
rugged. Orlando could not have the joy
of walking at Miss Glendinning's side ; he
had to content himself with following her,
watching the grace of her motion, and
hearing, from time to time, the music of her
voice. Mr. Oakes walked just before her,
maintaining a botanical discussion, and,
every few minutes, quitting the path to
come and walk on the rouse field at her
side, while he held up some fresh-gathered
specimen for inspection. The energy with
which he spoke when such subjects were
under debate, was to Orlando the opening
of a side-door into an unsuspected storehouse
 a glimpse of the private study,
which, alone, in the conventionally well-furnished
house was allowed to retain a
character of its own.

VOL. I. " G

When the path had left behind It three
or four fields and a due complement of
stiles, Mr. Oakes, turning, announced,
'' This must be the place ; we must go up
here, to the right."

Everybody looked that way. In a
sloping field stood a little group of flint
and brick built huts. A gate and path
gave access to them. At the gate they
paused, for Major Glendlnning and Lady-mary,
with the key, where not yet in sight.
Before them, as they rested against the
gate, stretched a wide landscape, rising'
softly to the far, blue hills. It was a fertile
land ; green pastures, and fields yellow
with ripened corn, lay defined by lines
of dividing hedgerow. Scattered farms
showed white against their encircling
orchards ; the sunshine twinkled on smooth
slopes of patrick, and at one point the
gilded arrow on the stable of a dove-cote
caught and threw back a line of golden

light. In Orlando's memory rang, as they
had rung all the afternoon, the words of
that companion of Marmion, who,

Making demi-volte in air,
Cried, " Where's the coward would not dare
To fight for such a land ? " '

Turning, and passing through the gate,
they had before them the four or five bare
huts, standing, mysterious, in the uncultivated
patch of field. In bleak hill districts
you may come on many a barn or
storehouse standing up thus, bare from
the ground, unfenced, and built of flints
or bricks pressed into a groundwork of
plaster. Any one familiar with them will
remember the peculiar sense of desolation
belonging to such spots, and can understand
the faint reflex of it cast, now, upon the
beholders by this change of scene. They
walked on, slowly. From the wall of the
hut immediately before them nodded a
climbing rose tree  a rose tree which had

been planted and partly trained, and which
retained the many-petalled blossom of the
cultivated stock, but was verging towards
the pale colour and the too rapid falling
of its wilder kindred. Arthur tried the
door, but found it locked. A longer hut
at the side of the footpath appeared to
possess no door, but had two or three
rough steps where grass grew up between
the bricks.

'' We might as well sit down ; don't you
think so ? " said Elizabeth.

Her uncle seated himself at her side.
Orlando stood by, unwilling to take the
sole remaining place. But Miss Rendell,
accompanied by Mr. Wheelwright, , turned
towards a stile some few yards further on,
while the children, discovering, round the
corner of the hut, a second set of steps,
established themselves there with Arthur,
and bursts of laughter presently gave
evidence that they were well amused.

Orlando, therefore, was able, with a clear
conscience, to seat himself at Miss Glen-dining's
side, and sat listening, with grave
attention, to her uncle's disquisition on the
flora of the neighbourhood. She had
fixed the bunch of forget-me-nots in the
front of her dress ; Orlando Watched them
rise and fall at every breath. Years afterwards,
he could recall their outline, their
colour, the droop of the fading leaves.

Presently, the voice of Lady Mary was
heard. They rose to meet her. She was
in active conversation with a quiet, middle-aged
woman who had come to act as
guide. Major Glendinning followed, blowing
a blue cloud from his cigarette. The
children came up, curious and impatient.
Miss Rendell and Mr. Wheelwright more
slowly followed.

They were admitted to one of the
buildings, which was perhaps twenty feet
square. Compared with the sunshine

without, the interior was dark and cool.
The walls were bare ; the roof showed its
dusty rafters and the under surface of its
thatch. But the floor was in odd contrast
with these rough surroundings. The
large central square, kept from incautious
feet by a wooden railing, was occupied by
a mosaic pavement, wrought in white and
black, pale red and bluish grey. The
colours, the design, and the even surface
were, in most parts, as well preserved as if
it had been the modern floor-cloth to which
Maudie likened it. They stood, bent over
the slight fence, looking down in silence.
A deep geometrical pattern made the
border ; within, were bands and divisions,
variously wrought with figures, flowers,
animals, or strangle, interlacing devices.

These are Cupids ; this is supposed to
be a dancing nymph ; these, you see, are
gladiators," said the show-woman.

Orlando stood with his eyes fixed on

the gladiators  little grotesque figures In
whom size and material forbade very strict
adherence to the lines of the human form,
yet endowed with a vitality and individuality
which brought the scene forcibly to
mind. Opposite, leaned i\IIss Rendell
with her lover, and their hands, hidden in
the folds of her dress, sought each other.

'' When was this discovered ? " inquired
Mr. Oakes.

'ein 1811, sir. It was always known
that there had been Roman buildings
hereabout ; they used to come on the walls
in ploughing, and, one day, the plough
struck on the pavement, and they dug-down,
and brought it all to light. You can
see the place where the plough struck."

She pointed to a gap, which looked like
a torn hole in a carpet. The scene rose
before the eyes of all : the men ploughing,
the autumn sky, the cornfield, the sudden
shock and jar, the straining horses, the

rending earth, the Httle blocks of coloured
stone scattered up ; then the pause, the
horses standing, the dim wonder of the
men, the momentary touching of old and
new. Orlando, glancing round, saw that
the walls rested upon thicker, stone-built
remnants. Beneath the same roof was
enclosed a smaller square of pavement,
belonging, doubtless, to some antechamber
or vestibule. Between the two were
ranged short lengths of broken columns,
erect or lying, according to the extent of
their breakage.

The whole villa covered four acres ;
they are always turning up bits of the
pipes, and bones, and what not. You see
those square pipes  flues like  run right
away under, and they are all in that kind
of half-baked clay, with that same pattern
scratched on."

They came out again into the sunshine,
crossed a patch of grass, and entered a

second building. This was larger ; the
designs, too, were on a more extensive
scale. At one end was an octangular basin,
with the hole still left in the centre whence
a fountain once had sprung. At the other
end, between two peacocks, was a circular
medallion, enclosing a more than life-sized
face. By some strange irony of chance,
its colours Averse as clear, its surface as
smooth, as if the mosaic had been laid but
yesterday. The fixed eyes gazed up at
them, one brow a little raised ; the mouth's
proud curve of half smile had a lifelike
inequality. It was impossible not to imagine
in it some weird, self-contemplative
existence.

'' This is supposed to be Juno," said the
woman.

''Ah, of course ; there are the peacocks,"
observed Orlando, turning to Miss Glen-dining.


Her eyes were fixed upon Juno's ; the

involuntary imitation which grows of self-forgetful
attention had called into her face
a similar expression. He did not, then, or
soon afterwards, feel that the moment had
stamped itself ineffaceably, but after a
long interval its impression returned and
haunted him.

They came, next, to the long hut without
a door, on the steps of which they had
rested. Two feet or so above the topmost
step was a square window-hole, closed
by wooden shutters. These their guide
threw back, and, standing on the step, they
looked in by twos and threes. At first the
view within was very obscure. Only a
space beneath the opening was clearly
visible. Vague darkness shrouded the
main part of the hut, and lurked, thick, in
its distant corners. The opening of a
second similar window on the opposite
side, however, let in a broad stream of
light upon the soiled and defaced pavement.

Only fragments were here left
distinct, but they were the most artistic
and original of any. In one place lay a
little heap of worn-edged bones. Orlando
and Miss Glendinning were among the
last to take their turn. As they leaned,
side by side, on the ledge, looking down
upon an old man's head, white-haired and
muffled  a winter left alone of the four
seasons  the hut was darkened. Lifting
their eyes to the bright square opposite,
they saw it half filled by the faces of the
children. The golden light streamed
through their golden hair, the soft colouring
of their cheeks gained a finer delicacy
from the nearness of the rough-cast walls.
Beside them peeped and fluttered a spray
of pale, full-blossomed roses. Behind
them, a cloudless background, lay the sky,
and in front, the dark shed with the broken
Roman pavement and the heap of bones.
Never was sermon in stones more eloquently
preached.

Look ! " said Orlando, sofdy.

Elizabeth eyes followed his, and his
thought reflected itself in hers.

Looking in, presently, from the other
side, they saw, among much that was irrecoverably
marred, one panel clean as if
newly washed. It bore no pattern, but
instead, the two irregularly placed initials
* R.' What was their meaning ? Were
they the artist's, or the owner s ? They
looked, and guessed in vain, taking back
their thoughts to the time when Rome
stood like a rabbit-burrowed bank, solid
to the eye, but crumbling away, within ;
to days when, perhaps, Lucretius was still
questioning the earth, and early Christians,
as they went serenely to their death, were
comforted by the nearness of a founder to
whose very voice ears yet alive had listened.
And now remained only the inarticulate
I- R.' hidden so long beneath an English
field, and brought to light, at last, for

English eyes to gaze down upon and
wonder at, for a few minutes, and turn
away from, and forget. Elizabeth, before
she turned away, lifted her face for an
instant to the sky. The surroundings, the
races of men, the very forms of the land,
had changed ; but the Roman, looking up
from the setting of his last block, had
looked to a sky like this which her mute
gaze claimed as a link between them.
Orlando observing, silent as she was
silent, felt the action as the very seal of
mental union, the assurance of a sympathy
only to be compared with that of two
instruments tuned to one pitch. Upon the
solemnity of his mood descended a mellowing
serenity  a calm, deep happiness,
too full for mirthfulness or many words.
There was but little more to see. A smaller
hut, lying apart, covered a singularly perfect
and beautiful Medusa, but the face had not
the liveliness of Juno's. The impression

which it produced was comparatively
pale. The objects already looked upon,
the contrast of living youth with the
dead past, the inscrutable ' - R.,' had
raised a train of thought into which the
Medusa merely fitted, filling up a corner.
Perhaps, if this had been the spot first
visited, the process might have been
reversed.

Again Orlando and Elizabeth, coming
last from the previous hut, were the last to
look In. The others were returning to the
first room.

'' Why are they going back ? " Orlando
asked, with a little surprise.

On following, the answer was easy to be
found. A rough table and chair, an open
book, pen and ink, waited for the names of
visitors.

From a solidly fashioned cupboard were
brought out a blackened dagger and a
broken vase or two. On a shelf below lay

some dozen of books whose register was
filled up ; lower still were some thigh and
arm bones, and the skull of an elk. Elizabeth,
when she had viewed these relics,
went to the table. Orlando, presently, followed.
She tried the pen, looked at it
suspiciously, dried it on a scrap of blotting-paper,
dipped it and tried again ; then drew
the inkstand nearer, examined its depths,
and shook her head.

** If these books are to be kept as specimens,
the next generation will not give usa
good character for handwriting."

She yielded her place and the pen to
Orlando, whose eyes fastened eagerly upon
the shining autograph. An unblessed
judgment might have seen in it little
beyond the typical handwriting of the time,
disfigured by the influences of a pen that
was too thin, and ink that was too thick.
Orlando, however, discerned in it something
of its writers peculiar charm. He

set his own name beneath, rejoicing at the
proximity ; then, with a last look back at
the pavement, passed out into the sunny
outer world.

CHAPTER V.

IX A Drawing-room.

Vous chantries ? J 'en suis fort aise ;
Eh bien ! Danse maintenant."

La Fontaine,

The waggonette had been temporarily
abandoned, for the sake of wandering
through a wood. Arthur, who had hitherto
been a Httle in the background, was now
making amends to himself by leading the
way with Miss Glendinning. Miss Rendell
and Mr. Wheelwright were out of sight,
exploring a narrow side-path which was
reported to come in again farther along.
The children were skipping hither and
thither, according to their wont, while the

VOL. I. H

remaining four walked sedately, two and
two, enjoying the pure air and the perfume
of the fir trees, with which, as in a fabric of
two colours, mingled the duller scent of the
bracken. Orlando walked at Lady Mary's
side, listening and answering, easily. His
eyes followed the motions of Elizabeth,
and he felt a serene, perfect content. At
the end of the wood, they reached a gate.
Beyond, lay a wide expanse of fields, their
gentle downward and stronger upward
slopes ending, against the sky, in a soft,
boldly sweeping line of hills. Here the
lovers reappeared, Arthur and Elizabeth
stopped, and the divided groups melted
into one. The lights of sunset were beginning
to spread across the sky. Miss
Rendell was saying something to her
brother of this being their nearest way
home.

' But, my dear, you don't want to go
home," interposed Lady Mary. '' Of co7trsc

you are all coming back with us. I counted
upon it. Oh yes, I quite took it for granted.
We are shine to have an unceremonious
dinner-tea at half-past seven. I don't know
what hours you London people keep, but
six is our dinner-time here in Willingshurst,
Mr. Sherborne. And then I thought we
might have a little music. Oh, you really
must."

Everybody said, " Oh, thank you ; " and
the thanks of Orlando, at least, were sincere.

That is settled, then," said Mr. Oakes.
The next question is  shall we go along
the fields here to the waofoonette, or shall
we turn back through the wood ? "

The Avoid we know : what are the
merits of the fields ? " inquired his brother-in-law.


Well, you escape going back the same
way."

I don't quite know that that is an
advantage when the first way was so

pleasant," Mr. Wheelwright remarked,
looking across the open fields with some
disparagement.

"Are there not stiles by the field-way,
George ? " asked Lady Mary, solemnly.

'* I think it very likely. But the thing
is, Foster diana has been found not far
from the stepping-stones in the brook."

*' Stepping-stones ! My dear George,
you don't expect me to cross steppingstones
? "

'' I remember once carrying you across
some," her husband began ; but she, resolutely
shaking her head, interrupted 

** Yes, when I was seventeen, and
weighed seven stone. (I did indeed, Elizabeth.)
I should not like you to try, now.
But you go down that way, if you want to
find your Foster. Only I know you will
get your feet wet, and have rheumatism."

So you will, papa," said Maudie, with
the dullest echo of her mother.

*' You monkey ! you want to come with

me.

Well, papa," put In Ida, '' you know that
it would make you go much more carefully
if we were with you. You see, if you got
your own feet wet, you could not scold us."

And either consummation Is equally
devoutly to be wished  eh ? Well, well !
Come, then, you children, and we will keep
the feet dry if we can."

The others turned slowly from the gate,
and Orlando found an opportunity of
joining Arthur and Miss Glendinning.

They were speaking of Ida and Maudie.
Miss Glendinning was saying, in answer to
some remark of his, " Yes ; a natural companionship
like that is a great advantage
and sometimes a great trouble. I used
to wonder, at school, how some of the girls
who had sisters seemed to value each other
so little. It was quite a proverb that
nobody quarrelled except sisters."

** It takes a certain degree of friendship
even to quarrel' suggested Orlando.

"Yes, perhaps. I never thought of it
in that way."

"And you don't like people a bit the
worse for quarrelling with them, you
know," added Arthur.

I think that / should," said Miss Glen-dining.
" But It was not only that they
quarrelled. So often they seemed to think
that a sister was a kind of natural enemy,
a person whom you had to hold your own
against very jealously, and towards whom
you had no need to be polite or considerate."


I have seen that with brothers at
school," remarked Orlando.

"And we, who had no sister, should have
been so glad of one. I suppose children
who have not one always think that."

I don't think you would have quarrelled
with your sister," said Arthur.

*' I hope not. Ida and caudle don't
quarrel."

Did Millie at all fill the place to you ? "
asked Orlando, looking up.

flore nearly than any one else," Elizabeth
answered, gently. She would not say
to Lille's brother that Millie had rather
required the offices of a sister than been
willing to fulfil them.

She was solitary too, wasn't she ? "

'eyes ; only Millie had a brother. But,
then, I had my cousin, who has been as
much to me as many girls' brothers are.
I wonder whether boys feel the same
solitariness when they have not a brother?"

I think it is a much greater loss to a

o

man, you know, to be without sisters," said
Arthur, preparing the way for a compliment.


I suppose it depends," said Orlando,
answering Elizabeth. " I know I never
did. But, then, my father filled up every
gap."

Ah ! " said Elizabeth, almost enviously.
Her thoughts rested upon the happy relation
of such a father and son. His tone
suggested complete unity and mutual trust.
She wished it could be so with her. Thus
far, It had been her lot, in all her friendships,
to be the stronger. Only from Gilbert had
she known anything of the comfort of
equal companionship, and Gilbert was In
Norway. There was not in her mind any
hope of gaining such friendship from
Orlando. He was the brother of Millie,
ranked upon the same level as one younger
more likely to need than to render aid.
Then she thought of a secret and cherished
wish of Gilbert's, and her glance alighted
upon her companion with a questioning
expression difficult to define exactly.

Orlando, feeling her eyes upon him,
raised his own. Their looks met ; hers
scrutinizing, his inquiring mutely the cause
of this scrutiny.

*' I wish you and Gilbert knew each
other."

Orlando, musing afterwards upon the
words, found in them some ground of encouragement.
Her next words, too, might,
he thought, bear a hopeful interpretation.

How soon are you going away ? "

On Friday, unfortunately."

"Ah! I am sorry."

"So am I," Orlando answered, in a
heartfelt tone.

Arthur, during this short interchange
of look and speech, had fallen behind
to answer a question of Major Glen-winnings.
He now rejoined them, humming
a bar or two of an opera melody.
Elizabeth's step set itself to the time.
Turning to Orlando, she asked, suddenly 

By-the-by, do you sing ? "

A little. Why ? "

I thought, by the way you listened, the
other night, that you must be musical ; and

your voice, in speaking, sounds as if you
might."

It was true : Orlando's voice was that
of a finely strung instrument, clear and full
a voice that would have been priceless to
him as an actor or an orator.

'' He sings awfully well. Miss Glen-dining,"
said Arthur, in an aside.

Do you sing ? " asked Orlando, in part
overhearing, and anxious to divert Arthur s
commendations.

'' No ; I never could. I have wished it
more than anything ; but it is no use  I
can't."

"You mustn't expect to do everything
better than everybody else, you know,"
said Arthur, with a frank, boyish smile that
disarmed annoyance at the openness of his
compliment.

' A few can touch the magic string.

And noisy fame is proud to win them ;
Alas, for those who never sing,

But die with all their music in them ! ' "

quoted Orlando, from her other side.

ind he had the satisfaction of seeing
that Miss Glendinning was struck by the
lines. She asked where they came from.

Orlando referred her to ' The Autocrat
of the Breakfast Table ; ' and Arthur inquired
whether that was not the book
which contained the wondrous history of
the deacon's 'one-loss shay.'

From the ' one-loss shay ' they diverged
to American anecdotes in general ; and
Arthur s store was still exhausted when
they reached the waggonette. Mr. Oakes
and the children reappeared. It could not
be denied that the boots of all three were
wet ; and indeed, Mr. Oakes did not altogether
repudiate the charge of having
waded down the stream.

'' But, then, look at my grass-wrack,
Mary."

And he exhibited to his wife's inspection
a straggling piece of vegetation, which
looked not unlike an old . and very limp

ORLANDO.

green ribbon whose edges had been torn
into strips at various points.

Lady Mary restrained herself from saying
more than "Ah, indeed," for she was
a tolerant wife, but it can hardly be
doubted that she thought within herself,
'' A pair of boots spoiled, and a fit of rheumatism
incurred, for the sake of that
thin ! "

They rolled along, rapidly, through the
quickly falling twilight. Soft clouds settled
down upon the edges of the world; the
shadows of the hedges lengthened into
distinctness under the rising moon ; the
incessant click of the grasshoppers sounded
from the fields on each side, and the perfume
of the later hay hung, doubly strong
in the soft air.

In crossing a pasture sadly overgrown
with thistles, Miss Glendinning had paused
to collect a large handful of their downy,
seeding heads. Orlando ventured to inquire
why she had gathered them.

She laughed and replied, " For an experiment."


Miss Glendinning is going to grow
them on flannel in saucers'' said Arthur.

She smiled, mysteriously, and shook her
head.

I should be afraid to 'row thistles. I
should think I ought to be condemned by
some saying just opposite to that about
making two blades of grass grow, if I did."

When they reached the house, she went
at once to the conservatory, her thistle-tops
still in her hands, and added to them a
little bunch of fern before she went upstairs
with Miss Rendell.

Orlando thought them long in reappearing
; he had arrived at a point when every
moment seemed long, in which Elizabeth
was out of sight. When at last the two
girls came in, the purpose of the thistle-tops
was clear enough. They wore each
a crown made of the soft, white balls,

divided by tremulous ends of fern. Miss
Rendell, who wore earrings, had even a
downy globules at each ear.

How pretty ! " exclaimed with one
voice Lady Mary and the children.

I think the experiment may be called
a decided success, Miss Glendinning," said
Arthur, admiring.

Orlando did not find it necessary to say
anything, but his eyes returned to the
white wreath again and again, as flies
driven off return to honey.

I thought, when I saw them, that they
would be effective and inexpensive. How
should you like a ball-dress trimmed with
them, auntie ? "

Before Orlando's eyes rose at once the
image of a white-robed figure whose dress
was looped with summer snow, and it
appeared to him that a painter might well
depict an angel in such a guise. Again
it was his good fortune to sit by her at

table, for Lady Mary, having insisted so
strongly upon the unceremonious character
of the meal, would not permit any formal
order of eine to it, but took Miss Ren-dell
by the hand, and led the way herself.
Elizabeth had whispered to her aunt that
Mr. Sherborne would sing if he were
asked, and as soon as they had returned
to the other room, Lady Mary obeyed the
hint.

Orlando hoped that some one else would
begin.

Lady Mary looked across towards Miss
Rendell. But Miss [Rendell was deep ina
conversation With the devoted Mr.
Wheelwright.

Elizabeth ! "

Elizabeth went to the piano, and
Orlando, naturally, went to turn her pages.
She played, however, without notes, and
Orlando sat in a corner, listening, with his
eyes upon her, entranced. She suffered the

last note fully to die away, then, turning a
little upon the music-stool, asked whether
he played his own accompaniments.

Alas, no ; that was beyond him.

She showed him a pile of music belonging
to her uncle and her cousin, and
stood by while he made his choice. It
appeared that the taste of Gilbert Oakes
inclined towards ballads of the cavalier
and restoration periods. Orlando wished,
now, that his own studies had been more
particularly directed to those of a lover-like
turn. That which he perforce selected
was by no means appropriate to his feelings.
He reluctantly drew forth ' Shall I,
wasting in despair '

This is the only one I know. That's
the worst of singing from another man's
music. The song that is familiar to yourself
is sure to be familiar to everybody
else."

That's rather an advantage to your

accompanyist," said Elizabeth, as she sat
down.

The song was sung, and received with
much applause.

Elizabeth, to whom the clear, full voice
ringing beside her was a deep enjoyment,
wished him to try again.

'' Are you sure there isn't another you
know ? " she asked, wistfully. " Coitld not
you try one that you don't know ? "

Again Gilbert's songs were passed in
review. At such a request, Orlando would
have attempted all the music of an opera.
And here was something which surely he
would delight to sing  ' You meaner
beauties of the night . . . What are you
when the moon shall rise ? '

Would Elizabeth play the air through to
him ? She played, and he leaned upon the
piano, listening. Then they tried together.
How 'delicious was it to follow the sounds
from her fingers, to find her ready with

VOL. I. I

a helping note when he wavered, and to
stand, of necessity, so close to her that
her crown of thistle-down, more than once,
touched his cheek ! And when the song
was at an end, she drew a long breath and
said, '' Thank you. You need not have
been afraid to sing at sight."

Arthur had drawn near, and Lady Mary
was entreating him to sing and to make
his sister sing.

Your French duets are so sweet.
Everybody in Willingshurst talks about
them."

Do you know, I think sometimes that
everybody in Willingshurst must be rather
sick of them."

Oh no ! How can you think of such
a thing ? And that dear little refrain
that runs in one's head so  how does it
go ? * Rions, rions toujours.' "

So the French duets were sung, and the
little refrain ' that runs in one's head so

ran in Orlando's all night. Then Ida and
Maudie, who had been standing silently by
the piano, began with one accord, "Oh,
Miss Rendell."

"Well, Maudie?"

Don't you want us to show you that
dance that the Swedish gentleman taught
to Gilbert ? "

Oh yes, please, I do. They say it is
going to be fashionable. I have heard two
or three people talking of it."

May this table be put back, mamma ?
And would you mind playing the tune for
us ? You know how it goes like this."
A simple and monotonous air beaten outwith
one finger.

Ida, meanwhile, was arranging the
dancers.

Look, Miss Rendell ; would you dance
with papa ?  because he knows it. Are you
going to try, Mr. Sherborne ? " This a
little shyly ; for Orlando was still somewhat

of a stranger, and Ida had an opinion
that he was * rather errand.'

'* If I may, please."

"Then will you dance with Cousin Lizzie?
-  and she will show you. And, Mr. Ren-dell,
will you have me, please ? And then
Maude can take Mr. Wheelwright, and
so there will be one in each couple who
knows it."

Do you mind accepting Ida's arrangement
? " Orlando asked of Elizabeth.

I shall be pleased."

They stood up, and came to take their
places at the end of the line. Lady Mary
took up the monotonous air at a brisk
pace.

You are the top, Lizzie," cried Maude.

*' Oh, are we ? I didn't mean to be. But,
come, Mr. Sherborne, we will do our best."

She held out her hand, and rather led
him than was led by him down the figure,
explaining the next procedure as they

went. The quick motion, the need of
watchfulness upon her partner, gave her an
alertness and promptitude which formed a
new charm. For as a rule, her bearing was
rather stately, her prevailing expression
serious, and even her smile a little grave.
But now she showed a simple joyousness,
an unreflecting acceptance of a pleasant
passing moment. Orlando almost dared
to hope that she was happy as he was.
The frank and easy friendliness of her tone
to himself awakened no dread. How
should he, seeming to himself to stand in
the full summer of manhood, guess that he
appeared to her a boy ?

The dance was kept up until Lady
Mary declared that she could bear the
repetition of one short musical phrase no
longer. It was suddenly discovered to be
growing late. An interchange of 'good-nights
' began.

'' I am afraid this must be good-bye as

well as orood-nlorht," said Orlando ; '' for
I am going on Friday morning."

'' And you have not seen Gilbert," said
Lady Mary.

His farewell of Elizabeth was not
taken In the room, but by the door of
the house. She had gone to fetch an
additional wrap for Miss Rendell, and came
running downstairs with a cloudily white
shawl In her hands.

Good-bye, then," she said, heartily. '' I
am so glad to have met you. You'll give
my love to Millie ?"

Oh yes. Good-bye."

His hand lingered a moment under hers.
He followed the others down the path, and
glanced back in time to catch a last view of
her as she stood on the doorstep, looking
out with a smile at the moonlit beauty of
the world. The thistle-down wreath looked
like a halo of cloud, encircling a goddess of
the moon.

At the gate Mr. Wheelwright parted
from them, and Miss Rendell came to walk
between her brother and Orlando.

'' A very pleasant day," said she.

'' Just a trifle slow," said Arthur.

Orlando expressed no opinion.

How pretty Elizabeth Glendinning
really is!" Miss Rendell observed, presently.

She's more than pretty," said her
brother ; " she's regularly beautiful. I
wonder whether she had tried that thistledown
stuff, before, and knew how well it
suited her ? "

At the first part of this speech Orlando
smiled, remembering how nearly it coincided
with his own words, uttered after
seeing her in Shrubs's Wood ; the second
aroused his contemptuous but silent indignation.


That little Ida will be awfully pretty
when she grows up, and she'll just have

the liveliness that Miss Glendinning wants.
Don't you think so, Sherborne ? "

Orlando would not confess that anything
which was wanting in Miss Glendinning
could be desirable, but it did not suit him
exactly to proclaim this belief in her perfection.


He said evasively, therefore, " She will
be very much like Miss Glendinning."

His mind dropped into the consideration
of when he might see her again. Perhaps
Millie might ask her to come and stay.
How glorious if she could spend Christmas
at Sherborne ! She was exactly the woman
whom his father would prize highly.

And almost unawares, the French refrain
sprang up again, and he heard his own
voice singing, " Rions, rions toujours."

CHAPTER VI.

BETWEEN FATHER AND SON.

Chaque familie est une histoire et meme un poem
pour qui sait la feuilleter."  Lamat-tinc.

The house towards which Orlando, two
days later, was swiftly travelling, lay half
a mile or so apart from the village of
Sherborne. The surrounding country was
flat, fertile, wooded ; a lazy stream  the
Sherril  lay in loops, like an unrolled
ribbon, across the damply green marsh
pastures. The village sloped up a mild
ascent to the church, and faded gently
away from it on the other side. This
church was large and old ; it was a little
dilapidated, but had, at that time, still

escaped restoration. It possessed two
stained windows of a mellow harmony of
colouring which denies itself to modern
emulation, and some quaintly sculptured
tombs described in the county history as
monuments belonging to the Sherborne,
Lynn, and D'Aintrey families.' From the
village the ground continued gradually to
descend towards the dwelling of Orlando's
father, known, rather indiscriminately, as
The Lodge,' ' Sherborne Lodge,' or ' The
Park.' Its owners, proudly careful to avoid
pretension, used the first name. The thickly
wooded hollow about the house was too
small to be fitly called a park, but the
name lingered from days when its extent
had been greater. The house itself stood
close among trees, and could only be
viewed clearly from the front. Here it
was open, divided, by a terrace and a strip
of lawn, from the public footpath which
ran across its grounds. The building was

Elizabethan, but among the stables and
outhouses were relics of an older time.
The entrance to the kitchen-garden, for
instance, was through a stone archway
which had once spanned a priory window.
Behind ran, or rather lingered, the Sherril,
and beyond that, rose a hill which was
thought to be of partly artificial construction,
and which, though of no great height,
was looked on, in this flat country, with
respect. It was clothed about half-way up
with wood, and near its summit were the
ruined fragments of Sherborne Castle.
As the train brought him in sight of this
hill, Orlando leaned forward and looked
out eagerly. The midland scenery, rather
homely than beautiful, had for him the
charm of familiarity. Every field had a
recollection belonging either to himself or
to his ancestors. His very name was a
growth of the place. He was quick to
step forth when the train stopped. The

porter who got out his luggage knew him,
and said, " Glad to see you back, sir."

As he stood, a hand came upon his arm.
Turning quickly, he saw his father. A
light came into both faces. The fathers
words were the same as the porters had
been, " Glad to see you back, my boy."

'' How are you, father ? I didn't think
you would have come to meet me."

I thought I might as well look in and
see if you had come. Leave your traps
here, and we will walk together. Thomas
can come up in the evening."

They went off, arm-in-arm. The stationmaster,
whose occupation had gone with
the departing train, looked after them, and
said to the master of the Station Hotel,
** The old gentleman looks happy again
now ; he seems quite lost always when his
son is away."

The father and son walked homeward
between the familiar fields, talking the

pleasant, unimportant talk of local politics,
of the year's successful harvest, of a new
cow bought, and a hay-rick accidentally
fired on a neighbour's land. Millie was at
the vicarage, helping in the arrangements
for a Sunday-school treat. She would be
in soon.

They went into the house, and an intermediate
meal was provided for Orlando.
While this was in course of consumption
Millie appeared. In cast of feature she
resembled her father and brother, but she
had a fairer tone of colouring, and a prevailing
expression of dissatisfaction. The
expression melted away as she welcomed
her brother, and, laughing, drew her finger
across a dark moustache, which had
decidedly thickened since she saw him
last.

So you met Elizabeth Glendinning ? "
said she. " What did you think of her ? "

I thought her," Orlando cautiously

replied, 'every handsome and very agreeable."


"Very handsome ! That Is mild praise."

Very beautiful, then," said Orlando.

'rand you saw her cousins too, I suppose
? Nice people, are they not ? "

I saw two cousins  little girls. There
is another, but he Is away. Yes, I thought
they were a nice family. Lady Mary is
rather conversational, that's all."

Lady Mary Oakes is that ? " asked
Mr. Sherborne. " I remember her before
she was married. There were three sisters :
Lady Ellen, Lady Mary, and Lady Elizabeth.
The younger two were extremely
pretty. Lady Elizabeth especially ; I think
I never saw a prettier woman. She and
her husband used to be called Cupid and
Psyche."

Orlando smiled quietly ; the arrogance
of youth was amused by the idea of such a
nickname for the grey-whiskered Major,

whose one claim to Interest consisted in
being the father of Elizabeth.

Millie sat absently twisting the elastic
of her hat, which she held In her hands ;
the dissatisfied look had come Into her
face again.

Mr. Sherborne was sitting, the day after
this. In the library, sorting out various papers
upon his writing-table. The drawer from
which he had taken them stood half open ;
Within were visible two miniatures, one enclosed
in a morocco case, the other merely
framed, and showing a likeness of Orlando
as a boy. Another portrait, belonging to an
earlier epoch, hung in the room, and drew
the eyes of every new-comer. Those of its
owner filled with a proud pleasure whenever
they turned that way, for the picture
proclaimed at once Its twofold value  asa
veritable Vandyke, and as the likeness of
one of Orlando's kindred.

Presently a sound of hoofs came through

the open window. Mr. Sherborne deserted
his papers, and went to look out. Orlando
and Millie had been riding, and Orlando
was at his sister's side, helping her to dismount.
A bright September sun shone
upon their fresh young faces. The light of
exercise was In Millie's eyes ; her fair hair
was blown up, cloudily, round the edges of
her hat ; she laughed as she sprang down.
The horses were led away, and the brother
and sister came along the terrace to the
entrance of the house. The father returned,
smiling, to his papers. Steps and
voices sounded within the house, Millie's
light footfall, and the heavy trailing of her
riding-habit, passed up the uncarpeted oak
stairs. Orlando, after pausing to hang up
his hat, came to the library. Mr. Sherborne
looked up with an expectant smile on his
careworn, gentle face. The lingering of
the expectant expression until his son was
close at hand might have sufficed alone to

show him short-sighted ; a nervous trick of
feeling after his double eyeglass, and twisting
his fingers in its cord qave further confirmation.


Orlando came to the table. A few words
were spoken of the ride ; then his father,
pulling a chair towards him, bade him sit
down.

*' If you have time, Orlando, I want to
talk a little to you about business matters."

Yes, father," said the young man, sitting
down and becoming gravely attentive.

The Vandyke portrait looked out over
his head from the wall behind. His father
noted that the likeness was strengthening
year by year. Just so would Orlando have
looked if he had worn his hair in honos
locks, encased himself in a breastplate, and
carried a flag wrapped round one arm.

He paused a moment, considering at
which end he should besoin his tale. A
deeply unassuming quality in his nature

VOL. I. K

made him shy of laying bare, even to his
son, the careful self-denial of his life.

'' In the first place," he began, "there is
your mother's money. We put off the discussion
of that, you remember ; but it is
four months now since you came of age,
and your uncle ought not to be troubled
about it any more. Some of it Is in
shares in the North-Western ; the rest is
income from the Capton lands. I have
written out the full particulars. There is
the extract from your grandfather's will,
too. It is about five hundred a year, at
present, but if they take the line to Capton,.
the land will rise in value. Then there are
the arrears of the three years since your
grandfather's death. The two mortgages, of
five hundred each, to Walsingham have just
been paid off, so that the whole sum is
intact. Of course, there is Walsingham's
interest as well, for the two years, and the
one year. The last five hundred, 3'ou see.

has been on deposit since January. Well,
that is for that."

Orlando looked through the paper, and
said, '' Thank you. It seems all very clear
and very satisfactory. The Capton lease is
up next June, I see. I suppose Ripley will
want to renew."

I should not wonder if he wants to
purchase. It would be a good thing to
consult your uncle before doing anything
decided there. He knows more about the
place and its opportunities than we do.
And, now, about other points which relate
to Sherborne. I don't want you, Orlando,
to be the typical crown-prince in opposition."
This, with a little nervous, yet
genuine smile, and a glance upward of
appeal.

Quick came Orlando's warm reply, " No
fear of that."

Mr. Sherborne, satisfied, continued. '*' My
father was a better man of business than I

am. He did a great deal In many ways
that I have never been equal to following.
It was his ambition to make up for any
losses and falling off that there may have
been since the time when the Heroines
were ' monarchs of all they surveyed.' "

Orlando's thoughts went to his grandfather's
portrait, hanging In the diningroom.


'' And In a great measure he might,
perhaps, have succeeded, but for one unfortunate
speculation. He fancied that
there was a great opening on the Suffolk
coast for a watering-place, at a place called
Batterlngbury Bay. A man of the name
of Dale contrived to get Into his confidence
a builder, who turned out, afterwards, to
have been on the very verge of bankruptcy.
He bought up a lot of land down there,
and spent more money in building sea-defences,
and having the whole town
planned out, and then he began to build.

As he went on, he was obliged to borrow
money on the land here. Before half the
work was done, Dale came to grief, and
nobody showed any inclination to try and
finish the houses, or to live in those that
were finished already. My father could
not go on with it, and nobody else would ;
and there it stands. He never got over
it."

He turned his eyes, sadly, upon a plan
which he had partly unrolled, and which
he held open before Orlando by the
corners. It was marked, ' Plans of ,
Suffolk, 1853.' Beneath
stood written, In a shaken handwriting and
faded ink, 'Sherborne's folly.' Orlando
felt as if it were almost an irreverence in
him, the descendant, to look upon the
words of self-condemnation.

'all this," Mr. Sherborne pursued, letting
the plan roll itself together again,
left us in a very straitened condition.

I thought it best when I came into possession
here to sell the brook lands. I really
had not the money to keep them on. It
was a grief to me, but it could not well be
helped. It was my great wish to leave
everything unencumbered for you, when
your time should come. And now there is
not a penny owing ; I paid the last off in
June."

In June, when Orlando had come of age.

And so, my dear boy, we really may
feel that we are free upon our own land
again, and for the future, you will not need
to be bound down to so quiet a life as we
have been living, hitherto. I could not
bear to think of your marriage being hampered
by considerations of money."

A quick heat of gratitude stirred at
Orlando's heart, as he recognized how
much his father's care had smoothed his
path towards Elizabeth. He looked up,
but did not speak.

It is rather early to look to that yet,
but I am glad to think that you will be
able to marry as soon as you choose."
(" If she chooses," thought Orlando.)

"I should like to see your children about
me before I die."

'' Indeed, I hope you will," Orlando returned,
heartily, his mind going to a
momentary picture, in vague outline, of his
future home.

You would never leave this place,
Orlando, would you ? "

'' Father ! "

I don't want you to bind yourself not
to give it up, but I should like to think
of there being Heroines here always."

Orlando looked affectionately round the
room, and shook his head. " You don't
think I would, do you ? After three hundred
years ! "

That's right. I was pretty sure you
felt so. But it is a dull home, Orlando,

for you and Millie ; and I think, sometimes,
that Millie would be glad to be away
from it."

Perhaps we are not as good companions
for Millie as we ought to be. Perhaps she
feels having no woman about her' said
Orlando. And he thought of the pleasure
and comfort which it would be to
Millie if Elizabeth were here as his wife.
Once more, his mind saw her spending her
Christmas here as a guest. " To me it
is the dearest place in the world," he
declared, waking out of his meditations
with a smile. " I don't say that I may
not wish to be In London sometimes  but
that's different." Different, indeed, since
did not Elizabeth live there ?

'' There's one thing," said Mr. Sher-borne,
looking down, and turning backwards
and forwards the key of his drawer
in the lock, " which I wished for very much,
when I was a younger man, but it had to

be put aside. I should have Heed to be
in Parliament."

"It is not too late. Why not now?"
said Orlando, his face lightening at the
thought of a pleasure to be given to his
father.

The father, smiling sadly, shook his
head. " Not now, Orlando. Perhaps you
may fulfil that dream, as well as a good
many others."

Then, drawing together such papers as
were not to pass to Orlando's keeping, he
laid them again in the drawer, and closing
it, finally turned the key. He looked up
with a sigh, like one who locks away a
half of his life. The cares and anxieties
which these represented had worn away all
youthfulness from him, had robbed his
nights of sleep and his days of pleasure,
but now that they were dead and buried,
his occupation had gone with them, and
he felt a blank  a displeasing sense of

o

void, an unnatural lightness, succeeding to
the weight of an accustomed burden.

The eyes of father and son met. Neither
spoke a word to indicate affection, but if
Elizabeth had been there, she would have
understood the truth of Orlando's declaration,
that he had never felt the want of a
brother.

CHAPTER VII.

A CHAPTER OF INTRODUCTIONS.

Yesterday a student and to-day a lover. "

Longfellow ' The Spanish Students

September and the long vacation closed
together. Orlando went back to Cambridge,
resolved to read none the less
steadily on account of his love for Elizabeth.
To say that he kept literally to
such a resolution would be to say that his
affection had died. There can be no doubt
that the face of Miss Glendinning did
obtrude itself even upon the hours which
he meant to devote to work, and that it
filled up almost entirely those other hours
of leisure in which some thoughts of study

might, under ordinary circumstances, have
lingered. On the other hand, her remembrance
acted as a spur to the desire,
hitherto rather kept lukewarm by duty
than fired by zeal, of attaining a high place.
And with how sweet a charm it filled those
times of repose, in which he floated easily
down the river, or loitered in the autumnal-tinted
fields. He grew to reckon almost
as a certainty the chance of seeing her at
Christmas. His mind pleased itself with
the idea of seeing her and his father
together. But all these hopes were dashed
by a letter from Millie, early in the term.
It contained, among other gossip, this
passage : 

'' The Glendinnings are going to the
south of France for the winter. Major
Glendinning has been rather seriously ill,
and they think the change may do him
o-ood. I saw Elizabeth for a few minutes
the other day in the park." (Millie was

Staying in London.) *' She looked as
beautiful as ever. Her cousin was with
her. I can't quite make out their attitude
to one another  whether just growing up
together could make a man indifferent to
such looks as hers. What do you think?
Elizabeth desired to be remembered to
you. So did Lady Mary Oakes, who
seems to have been very much taken with
you. What a nice, kind woman she is ! "

Poor Orlando ! Ccfuld any letter have
been devised more cunningly full of nettle-stings
? He pondered each word, labouring,
with the zeal of a commentator, to
assign its exact share of significance to
each. Yet it failed to strike him that
Millie's interest in the question was rather
correlative than co-ordinate to his own,
and that for her the point to be determined
was not Elizabeth's, but Gilbert's
feeling.

For some days after the receipt of this

letter, he found himself a prey to the most
unwonted despondency. The months were
so many until the spring. And who could
tell what chances they might hold concealed
? But by slow degrees, the months
wore themselves away. The urgent
question of examinations threw all else, fora
time, into the background. As Easter
approached, however, and he found himself
occupying a place  not a very high one 
on a classical honours list, there remained
nothing further to distract his thoughts.
The Glendinnings, he had heard, were
coming back to town in the end of ApriL
He was fully resolved not to be long
behind them. The last six months had
developed in him an affection for London,
not previously observed. His father and
sister supposed it a natural growth.
Neither of them had remarked its coincidence
with his first sight of Miss Glen-dining.
Nor could they know with what

invariable regularity his London walks
included a quiet West-end street of small
intrinsic interest, where his pace would
slacken, and his eyes ix themselves upon
certain first-floor windows.

Now, when he was released from colles,
and when the season was about beginning,
what more natural than that he should
desire relaxation and change? His father
was glad of the wish. The two steps
which he next hoped for his son would
both be best advanced by his mixing in
wider circles of society than Sherborne
could afford. In Sherborne there was no
young woman whom he thought good
enough to become Orlando's wife. His idea
of that ' not impossible she ' was almost
as exalted as the young man's own had
been, when he fashioned her image in
Shrubs's Wood, before he had yet seen
Elizabeth Glendinning. And now he was
to see Elizabeth again  to meet her.

perhaps, often  to win her, his thoughts
whispered.

He had a lodging In Jermyn Street.
His tastes would have inclined to the more
classic and memory-haunted region of the
Temple ; but, then, the street in which he
liked to wander would have been a good
mile farther away, and he could not have
suggested to himself that it made his
nearest way home from anywhere.

Major Glendlnnlng and his daughter
occupied the upper part of a house
in Burlington Street. Its lower rooms
were tenanted by a firm of music-publishers,
and a neat, gilded effigy of a harp
was placed between the front windows.
Orlando had looked at this harp, some
scores of times, from the opposite side of
the street; to-day he viewed it in profile,
from the uppermost step of that flight
which led to Major Glendlnning's door.
The door was opened to him by a repaired
man of soldierly bearing.

The Major was gone out.
Was Miss Glendinning out, too ?
He believed not. Would Orlando walk
this way ?

Orlando followed, and was ushered into
a little room on a half-landing. It had no
door, and was divided from the staircase
by a curtain  a fashion less common at
that time than now. The window was
painted, probably to hide a view of blank
wall. Orlando felt as if he were the
Sleeping Beauty's prince, standing in an
antechamber of her castle. An oval
mirror, in a carved frame, hung against
the wall. He glanced at his reflection,
pleased to look where she had looked.

The man, reappearing, repeated his
formula, '* Will you walk this way, sir, if
you please ? "

They went up a few stairs; a door which
faced them was thrown open, and Orlando
went into the room, at whose windows he

VOL. I. I'

had so often looked with longing, from outside.
Miss Glendinning was here, and was
alone. She had been writing. Her wet
pen lay against the open Inkstand of her
Davenport, but she had drawn a sheet of
blotting-paper over her letter.

She met him with a smile, saying, " Mr.
Sherborne ! This Is quite a surprise. I
had no Idea you were In town."

I came up yesterday," said Orlando.

She received the Idea that he was going
home almost Immediately.

*' It was very kind of you to come and
see us. I am so sorry that papa Is out.
How long do you stay ? "

I hardly know ; there is no time fixed.
Some weeks."

Oh ; then you must let us see a good
deal of you. Is Millie with you ?"

Her mind had gone to Gilbert. Orlando,
dimly perceiving that something lay behind
the question, had a momentary thrill of

hope that she thought of MilHe as a link
between herself and him.

No, she is at home."

'' I should like to have seen her. I
caught just a glimpse of her in the autumn.
How is she ? I didn't think her looking
very well."

I don't think she seems very well.
She says she is, but she looks pale, and
she always seems to start when you speak
to her. I think she rather mopes."

Elizabeth was looking down. It seemed
improbable that she should smile at this
description of her friend's state, yet the lines
of her face certainly looked like those of
a suppressed smile.

She has not much society at Sherborne,
you see," Orlando went on. Then, with
a slight trembling of the voice, very perceptible
to himself, but unobserved by her,
and with a tinofe of colour fluttering on his
face, '' It would be a real kindness if you

would come and keep her company for a
little while  some time."

'' I should like to come very much," said
Elizabeth, speakln cordially, and looking
at him with straightforward, friendly eyes.

Orlando, In this clear afternoon light,
solved the question concerning their colour
which he had been putting vainly to himself
through all these months. They were
grey  a clear, dark grey, equally deep and
transparent. Calling himself back from
this discovery, he found her remarking
that she and her father had only been
home about a fortnight from abroad. He
hastened to hope that her father was the
better for having been away.

Oh yes, much better. I am so glad
we persuaded him to go."

You have been at Nice, have you
not ? "

'' Yes, and at Cannes. It has been very
enjoyable; but one Is glad to get home
again."

He noticed that she was looking very
well. Her cheek had a slightly deeper tinta
slightly fuller curve. Her seriousness
seemed to border upon cheerful equability.

Is Lady Mary very well, and your
cousins ? "

Oh yes ;  the children are going to
school. I am afraid aunt will miss them
very much. They are all at home, at
Willingshurst. But my cousin Gilbert is
up here, staying with another aunt. I
hope you will see him this time. I want
you to like him  very particularly."

She uttered the last words a little
doubtfully, and then looked up inquiringly
; but Orlando did not meet her eyes.
She saw a look of displeasure in his face.
Was he so selfish a brother, she asked
herself, that he was jealous of his sister's
lover ? She had heard that brothers not
rarely were so.

'' Disagreeable lad," was her mental comment.

In the next moment, she began to
be sorry for him. After all, it might well
be something of a shock, when a man had
but one sister, to think of losing her.
For marriage was, in a certain sense, a
division. It would have been unbrotherly,
perhaps, to feel nothing. And as she
really desired to think well of Orlando,,
she was glad to be able to take this view.
She resolved to change the subject, but
circumstance, intervening, did it for her.
The door of the room was thrown open,
and the soldierly man admitted, without
announcing, a tall and stately old lady.
She bestowed a rapid but searching glance
upon Orlando as she crossed the room.
Elizabeth rose and went to her.

'' How are you to-day, auntie ? " she-asked,
in a louder and higher key than
seemed altogether respectful.

'' Very well, child, thank you ; but I am
always that, I am thankful to say. It is

the young people, nowadays, who don't
know what it is to be well."

She spoke in the low, too evenly running
speech of one who failed to distinguish
clearly her own tones.

'' Where's your father ? " she next asked.
''He is gone out, auntie  to his tailor s,
I believe."

Ah m ! " said the old lady.
The meaning of this utterance was not
precisely determinable, but it did not appear
to denote entire approval.

Elizabeth introduced Orlando. The
lady was, as he had already concluded,
her aunt, Lady Ellen Darling.

She had a moment's difficulty in catching
his name. His card was lying on the
table, and he quickly turned it towards
her.

'' Orlando Sherborne. Why, surely !
One of the Heroines of Sherborne ? "
Orlando said "Yes," and accompanied

the word by a slight motion of the head,
which should make his assent visible as
well as audible.

She motioned him to sit down near
her.

'' I remember your father, and your
grandfather. Was it not your grandfather
who thought he could turn Batterlngbury
Bay Into a fashionable bathing-place ? "

Orlando acknowledged his grandfathers
folly.

The old lady gazed at him critically
and remarked, '' You are very much like
your father." (*' But a finer face," she
added, in repeating this observation to
Elizabeth when he was gone). '' And are
you staying here for long ? "

He replied as before.

'' I hope I shall have the pleasure of
seeing you sometimes. I am 'at home'
every alternate Tuesday. Will you
kindly give me your address, and I will

send you a card, so that you can have no
excuse for forgetting."

Orlando wrote down his address, and
Elizabeth, while he did so, asked, " What
have you done with Gilbert, auntie ? "

''He was to meet me here. I was going
to take you for a drive. Thank you, Mr.
Sherborne. Will you take charge of that,
Elizabeth, and send Mr. Sherborne a card ?"
Then, turning to Orlando, '* I always make
my nephews and nieces write my invitations.
You see, I am too deaf to save my
eyes by making them read to me, and I
must take care of my eyes to fill the place
of my ears  though I hear a good deal
more than many people think."

Orlando, taking note of her quick eyes
and general air of alert watchfulness,
thought it extremely probable.

Here is Gilbert," said Elizabeth, from
the window.

Orlando's eyes turned, curiously, towards

the opening door. The young man to
whom it gave admittance was bush, Hke
his father, upon a rather large scale, and,
like him, had no point of special individuality
in his appearance. He was of the
stuff of which a good man of business, a
good country gentleman, or a good county
member, might be made. If it had been
necessary to describe him by three adjectives,
they might have stood thus : manly,
gentlemanly, sensible. The two young-men
were made known to each other, and
each looked at the other with a specially
interested afterthought, while Elizabeth,
who thought she understood their thoughts,
kept a specially interested watch upon both
of them.

The first glance of Inquiry left Orlando'
still suspicious that in Gilbert he had a
rival, but unable to seize any point upon
which to hang a personal dislike. All the
more was he likely to be a rival. But

Gilbert, finding in Orlando's face a reminder
of his sister's, and hearing in his words a
deeper echo of her voice, felt at once that
disposition towards friendship with which
brothers of the beloved object may be
observed to inspire a lover still uncertain
of her own favour.

'' I am glad we have met at last," he said
in a cordial way. 'rit seemed as if we
were always to play the parts of the little
man and woman in a child's weatherglass.
I left Trinity your first term, you
know, and then, when you came to Will
ngshurst, I was in Norway''

"And when you were here, in the
autumn, Mr. Sherborne had gone back to
Cambridge," said Elizabeth.

By-the-by, Mr. Sherborne, is your
sister here with you ? " asked Lady Ellen,
abruptly.

If Orlando's observing faculties had not
been engaged in hunting on a false track,

he could scarcely have failed to see with
what eagerness Gilbert awaited his reply.
But the doctrine, so readily acknowledged
In theory, of the Impossibility of understanding
our neighbour's thoughts except
by putting ourself at his point of view, is
too often translated, In practice. Into setting
him at ours. A child cannot believe that
its elders are in their hearts Indifferent to
toys, and its elders often enough, In spite
of memory, evince an equal unbelief in
their value to the child. A kindred blindness
closes the eyes of a brother to the
likelihood that his sister may be fallen In
love with.

Orlando, as he answered *' No," had no
suspicion that he was destroying a whole
fabric of Gilbert's hopes, or that Elizabeth's
gentle " It Is a pity," covered more than a
polite surface meaning. Lady Ellen, deaf
as she was, or perhaps because she was deaf,
had a far clearer notion of their game of

cross-purposes, and was inclined to watch
out its continuation. Turning to Orlando,
she invited him to join their drive. He
declined, reluctantly, on the ground that he
was engaged to see his uncle, who was a
busy barrister, and had with difficulty set
apart an hour for him.

He rose to go, and both ladies repeated
their hopes of seeing more of him, Elizabeth
adding that her father would be
sorry to have missed him. And when he
was gone. Lady Ellen expressed her
opinion that he was an extremely well
mannered and unassuming young gentleman.
Elizabeth, smiling, nodded, and said
that was exactly her opinion too.

Not only does one man at various times
of life play many parts, but he plays, at
the same time, many parts upon many
different stages. The multifarious worlds
of a great town are not divided by any
strict boundaries. We may pass from one

to another three or four times in a day.
Nothing is stranger to ourselves than the
knowledge that we have breathed different
atmospheres, the sense of altered indications
taking place in the soul's barometer.
This is the explanation of the widely
differing judgments pronounced on the
same man. In one atmosphere, the
mercury of his soul shrinks back upon
itself, and the hand which follows its guidance
gives a warning of ungenial weather.
But the barometer is not, therefore, a
mere auteur of storm. It has its 'Set fair'
too, but its nature forbids it to rise here.
Carry it into another room, and you shall
find it cordial enough.

Orlando, in passing from Burlington
Street to his uncle's chambers, felt like an
actor whose part was changed from Romeo
to Laertes. His uncle, Mr. Pelham, was
a lean and sallow-visaged man, having that
external likeness to an elderly bird of prey

which, by some mysterious affinity, often
associates itself to legal eminence. Uncle
and nephew consulted together in great
detail concerning the Capton leases and
the investment of certain moneys, and as
they talked, each kept a little reserve of
attention busy upon the other. Orlando,
on the former principle of judging his
neighbour by himself, bestowed a good
deal of uncalled-for commiseration upon
his uncle's lonely lot. Mr. Pelham himself
considered his lot an enviable one, seeing
that he held a distinguished position in a
profession whose excitements and emoluments
were very dear to him, and that he
had every prospect of by-and-by becoming
a judge. He, on his side, watched Orlando
quietly, and confirmed the opinions which
he had long held of him. When the
business discussion had been brought to an
end, he entered upon advice of a more
general and personal character  '' encouraged,"

as he expressed it, ''by the recollection
that Orlando, having no other uncle
and no aunt, could not have been called
upon to submit to it from any other
quarter."

This prelude was, perhaps, hardly required
in addressing Orlando, of whom an old
groom had once said, with justice, that he
was a 'every advisable young gentleman."

His uncle proceeded to say that he
was glad to see him in London. " There
are two extremes, Orlando, which I should
particularly warn you to avoid. The one
is that of confining yourself exclusively to
Sherborne. A country gentleman who has
no interests beyond the circle of half a
county may be a very useful member of
society, but he hardly retains that intellectual
level upon which one would desire to
stand. Your father, I admit, is an exception,
but I am sure you must feel with me
that his knowledge and powers have been

somewhat wasted in so retired a sphere.
But, putting your father out of court, what
Is the ordinary standard of country cultivation
? Can anything be more depressing
than the conversation to be met with at
the dinner-tables of what is called county
society ? "

'' But " began Orlando.

His uncle lifted his hand in a deprecating
way, as who should say, " I have not
finished my address to the jury."

On the other hand, the owner, or
prospective owner, of estates and position
in the country, does ill to live among
interests entirely removed from those of
the local sphere to which his possessions
belong. And then, one other point. It is,
I know, quite in vain to advise any man,
and especially a young man, upon the
subject of marriage. Still, one may take
precautions beforehand, by choice of society.
You would do well, Orlando, to frequent as

VOL. I. M

far as possible the society of women of
wide and cultivated interests, such as you
would be more likely to meet in London
than at Sherborne. You may think that
an old bachelor like myself is not the best
judge of such matters; but it is an old
remark, that inaction is often the result of
too keen a judgment. Moreover, a knowledge
founded upon many observations,
though each by itself may be shallow, is of
more general reliability than that which is
derived from a single Instance of personal
experience. A married man cannot judge
of matrimony ; he can only judge of his
own marriage. Your temper, Orlando,
appears to me particularly affectionate, and
you have not a wide range of relations or
of friends, in whom you might find compensation
for uncongeniality in a wife. I
suspect that your happiness would be
almost as much dependent as a woman's
upon the harmony of your relations in

marriage. I will say no more upon that
point, except, indeed, this : that the option
of not marrying at all, which you might
propose to me, and perhaps justify by my
own example, is inappropriate to your case,
as the last representative of an old name
which you would not, I think, be willing tolet
die."

He ceased, and an expression came into
his face of awaiting a similar speech in
reply.

No, indeed," Orlando answered, fervently.
"And I hope, uncle, when I do
marry, that it will be exactly such a woman
as you describe."

The happy, boyish manner and mellow,
eager voice were in odd contrast with the
dry, literary precision of the uncle, who
spoke as one mindful of shorthand
reporters, and studious to consult their
convenience by careful and measured utterance.
How far Elizabeth Glendinning did

indeed fulfil the ideal existing in Mr.
Pelham s mind might, perhaps, be open to
question, but Orlando's affection had not
reached the stage in which doubts begin to
arise of the loved one's perfection.

He left his uncle's chambers, and returned
through the busy streets in a condition of
happy vision, which made them as golden
as ever they were to the hopes of Dick
Whittington. The April sunshine was at
its brightest ; green specks tipped the black
twigs of the trees in the Temple Gardens ;
and Orlando, lingering to glance at them,
thought of all the love tales which clustered
round this place, and of his own boyish
fancy that the Tower had been the prison
of Salmon and Archie, whence, in days
when London was less built over, they had
looked upon Emelie walking in this
garden.

CHAPTER VIII.

CHIEFLY IN DIALOGUE.

Life has its May, and all is mirthful then."

Scott.

Orlando's next meeting with Elizabeth
was at a dance. He had thought It likely
he might see her here, and watched the
door till she appeared. She was with
Lady Ellen. Gilbert was following, and
a second young lady was of the party.
Again her beauty, seen, he thought, to
greater advantage than ever In this dress,
came home to him with something like a
shock. He made his way at once towards
her ; but before he could reach her, a
young man was at her side, and her little

motion of the head and smile made him
sure that she had promised to dance with
him. As Orlando came up, the pair moved
off, and in another moment were among
the dancers. Lady Ellen smiled upon
him, and introduced him to ''my young
friend. Miss Tenby."

Miss Tenby was a fair, shy little girl,
who, when he asked her to dance, replied
with a mingling of bashfulness and gratitude.
She danced, however, very well,
though a little over-precisely, as if she
were still new from school dancing-lessons.
Her shyness was not very deeply rooted.
The air of quiet dignity  quite unconsciously
worn and natural  which, even
in these younger days, belonged to Orlando,
soon lost its awfulness, and when
once she understood that her partner was
rather inclined to be deferential than
condescending, she became decidedly talkative.


Orlando asked her whether she was
staying with Lady Ellen Darling.

Oh no ; only I live next door to her
In Portland Place, and she was kind enough
to bring me. Mamma is an invalid, and
she can hardly go out at all. Lady Ellen
is so kind ; isn't she } "

'' I am sure she is, though I hardly know
her enough to have a right to say so."

"Oh, don't you?" said ]Miss Tenby;
and for a moment she was silent, as if her
faith in him had been shaken.

I don't live in London, you see," said
Orlando.

'' Oh, don't you ? " said she again ; and
then, " Don't you like London ? "

Very much indeed."

So do L I am so sorry to think the
season should ever be over."

You have a good deal of it still to look
forward to," said Orlando, by way of consolation.


Oh yes ; and I hope I shall go out a
great deal. A cousin of mine went to fifty
dances in one season."

"Really?"

'eyes; besides other things, you know.
Do you know Miss Glendinning ? "

Yes, I know her a little."

" Oh, isn't she beautiful ! I always
think she looks so very nice when she is
dancing with Mr. O'Brien."

o

'' Is that Mr. O'Brien, then ?"

Yes ; Mr. Lawrence O'Brien, you
know. Don't you know him ? "

'' No, I don't."

Oh, you are sure to, if you stay in
London long, and if you go to Lady
Ellen's 'at homes.' Shall you, do you
think?"

'' I hope so."

I don't care much about ' at homes.'
They are not half as good as dances, I
think ; but I like Lady Ellen's better than

Other people's. For one thing, I am so
near home. I always feel that I could go
home just whenever I felt tired. Isn't it
funny ? you know, Miss Glendinning is our
landlord."

Your landlord ! "

Yes ; the house we live in belongs
to her. It was her mothers, just as the
next house is Lady Ellen's ; only she and
her father don't live in it. I suppose it
would be too large for them."

The dance came to an end ; Orlando
took back his partner to Lady Ellen. By
her was standing Elizabeth, who met him
with a smile of unmistakable welcome.

I am so pleased to see you here, Mr.
Sherborne. I wondered whether I should.
By-the-by, is it possible that I saw Mr.
Arthur Rendell in Regent Street, or was
it only some one very much like him ? "

Orlando hardly knew how he answered,
that Arthur had gone back to college.

The evident eagerness with which she
turned to him was intoxicating. The
young Irishman perceived it as clearly
as himself ; Orlando could see the angry
reddening of his face as he stood by. Her
consent to dance with him was given, too,
with surely an almost eager readiness.

In this interval a man of peculiarly
smooth and self-possessed manner added
himself to the group, and quietly wished
Elizabeth '' Good evening."

She answered in the same tone, and he
went on to speak to Lady Ellen, then to
Miss Tenby, and afterwards to Mr.
O'Brien. A little later in the evening
he was made known to Orlando as Captain
Grove.

He observed that while Elizabeth was
dancing with himself, both Gilbert and
O'Brien were standing lonely, and doubtless
envying his better fortune.

This is not the first time we have

danced together, is it ? " said Elizabeth.
'' I wonder whether you remember the
fissures of that Swedish dance ? "

I wish you would try me, under the
same conditions as before."

'' That would include Willingshurst, and
a picnic beforehand. You know Miss Ren-dell
is married ? "

*' Oh yes. Arthur brought down wedding
cake to Trinity, and half the men
dreamed upon it."

Dear me ! I thought that was quite
a school-girl's trick. I should not have
expected to find it indulged in by what
Maudie calls ' collegians.' I hope the
dreams were satisfactory."

'' Mine were."

Elizabeth did not inquire into further
details, but said, after a moment, '' I was
glad to see you dancing with Miss Tenby.
It would be kind if you would ask her
again, for she does not know many people,

and It feels horrid to a young girl like that
to have to sit out. I would not say that to
everybody, because most young men are so
frightfully conceited ; but I don't think
you will imagine yourself very magnificent
because you are asked to do a small kindness."


Thank you," said Orlando, very fervently,
and in his inexperience he thought
her open praise encouraging.

This was not the only dance in which he
was fortunate enough to be her partner ;
and the evening was recorded in his
memory as a golden time. Yet there
were shadows on the gold. The frank,
easy  in truth, sisterly  footing on which
she stood to Gilbert, caused him very
uneasy doubts. So did the unmistakable
devotion of the young Irishman, to whom
Miss Tenby had called his attention. On
the other hand, Elizabeth did certainly
treat himself with especial favour. Her

aunt and cousin, also, seemed to single
him out for particular friendliness.

The next point upon which his anticipation
rested was that ' at home ' of Lady-ellen's.
He had the good fortune to meet
Elizabeth several times in the few days
which divided it from this dance. He
called, and this time saw her father also.
Major Glendinning was  as he always was
rather an elegant addition to the furniture
of the room than an enlivening member
of its society, but he smiled amiably
and seemed mildly pleased. On this occasion
Captain Grove was present. Orlando
learned incidentally, and without paying
much attention to the matter, that he was
in the War Office, but that, this being Saturday
afternoon, he was free from his duties.
The foreground of Orlando's fears was so
much filled up by the figures of Gilbert
and Lawrence, that Captain Grove  a later
appearance and an elder man  was almost

entirely eclipsed. His smooth manner,
too, which was alike to every one, was by
no means that of a lover. Orlando went
home on that Saturday afternoon with
more sober certainty of hope than he had
ever before dared to allow himself How,
if he could have heard the conversation
which took place between Elizabeth and
Captain Grove, within half an hour of his
leaving ?

*you have not seen your uncle yet,
Edward ? "

'' No ; I hope to do so very soon. Are
you so anxious to have our engagement
known ? "

I am, rather. It sounds vain, perhaps,
but I should like to let Mr. O'Brien know
that it is no use to go on thinking about
me."

For Heaven's sake, Elizabeth, don't tell
/iz7n. You might as well advertise in the
Times,"

Is he that kind of man ? I should not
have thought it."

He is an Irishman," said Captain
Grove, evasively. As Elizabeth did not
speak, he went on. '' It is no use to give
him a hint. He will never be satisfied till
you have said ' no ' to him in plain
words."

Oh, do you think so ? How ver) disagreeable
! "

I thought women rather liked the
triumph."

Perhaps some of them do, as some
men like to kill things. I don't. I wish
people would understand. I don't encourage
him ; now, do I ? "

A man of that kind doesn't need encouragement,
and won't understand discouragement.
It is not your fault ; you
can't help being the prettiest woman in
London."

'' I suppose I can't help it ; " and, as he

laughed, '' I don't mean being the prettiest
woman in London  of course, I know I'm
not  I mean, I can't help Mr. O'Brien
caring about me, if he will."

Of course you can't ; you must just
submit to your fate, and be satisfied to
know that ninety-nine women In a hundred
would give their souls to change places.
The only alternative is to spoil your good
looks, and that / say ' no ' to."

The society of this, her favoured lover,
always brought a look of doubt and question
into Elizabeth's eyes, at other times so
calm and clear.

I wonder," she said, '' how much you
will care for me when I am old and grey,
and my good looks are gone ?"

There was a pause, too short to be
measured. Captain Grove could not help
feeling that the question struck home. But
to her, he answered, '* Why, I shall be old
too, and grey, long before you are ; and, as
to good looks, I have none to lose."

She looked at him, and felt sure that no
age could destroy his air of distinction.
Then, returning to the old point, somewhat
in Lady Mary's fashion, " And you will
really see your uncle soon ? "

Yes; I think he will be up in town, and
then he will see you. Half an hour in
your company would do more than weeks
of description. And now, good-bye. I am
afraid I shall not see you again till Tuesday,
for I am going to dinner tomorrow at
Ellison's."

'' You won't fail at Aunt Ellen's on Tuesday,
will you ? "

No, indeed. I believe you suspect it
is not a pleasure to me to be where you
are."

No, I don't. And oh, Edward, one
thing : I want you to be very nice to Mr.
Sherborne, for Gilbert's sake, and because
he really is nice, himself, besides."

'' I hope I am always 'very nice.' I'll do

VOL. I. N

what I can, but I have not much taste for
boys. I would advise you, if you really
like him, not to be too friendly with him,
yourself It is rather false kindness from
a woman as attractive as you."

'' Oh, you think that everybody sees me
with your eyes. Why, I am ever so much
older than he is ; he really is not much more
than a boy."

I should fancy you were born in about
the same year. Well, I dare say you know
best, and at the worst, a man soon gets
over that sort of thing. Good-bye, ."


'' Hem. I don't know that I quite like
that name. It is very appropriate, just
now ; but, as the year goes on, there won't
be any more lilies-of-the-valley, and then
very likely you'll call me Tiger-lily instead."

Elizabeth is the prettiest name of all ;
and so good-bye, my very own Elizabeth."

Thus amicably the lovers parted, and

'Captain Grove walked home, the better
pleased with his engagement that he believed
two men would have envied him
if they had known it.

CHAPTER IX.

ACADEMICAL.

Oh, years may come, and years may bring
The truth that is not bliss;
But will they bring another thing
That can compare with this ? "

A. H. Clough.

On the afternoon of Lady Ellen's 'at
home,' Orlando, running upstairs at his
lodgings, was met by a young man coming
down. He stepped hastily aside, for the
new-comer's rate of progress and the many
articles with which he was laden made
collision very undesirable.

'* Hallo ! " cried the stranger, pausing,
but not until the impetus of his descent
had carried him to a step or two below.
'' Why, it's Sherborne ! "

Orlando, looking at him with more
attention, exclaimed, " Duncannon ! " and
they shook hands, Mr. Duncannon shifting
a paint-box from his right hand to his left
to enable him to do so.

He was a fair young man, taller than
Orlando, and of that loosely hung and
large-jointed construction which makes up
in strength for what is wanting in grace.
His clothes partook of the same character,
and rather hung upon him than fitted him.
At a cursory glance he looked almost
boyish, In spite of a short, curling beard
just circling his chin. A pair of peculiarly
bright and quick eyes scarcely left you
leisure to remark the other components of
the face. But when  which was not often
the face was at rest, a horizontal line
might be observed, marking itself with
growing distinctness across his forehead,
and his hair, worn rather long behind, was
beginning to withdraw itself a little from
the temples.

Are you living here ? " asked Orlando,
with a pleased smile. Indeed, the meeting
seemed to give satisfaction to both.

Rather not ; I am getting on, but I
have not quite come to that yet. Remember,
I have to keep up a studio. Newman
Street is my shop."

'well, I do live here for the present.
Come in, if you are not in a hurry, will
you ? "

'' Thanks, just for five minutes."

They went into Orlando's room.

Rather different surroundings these,
from those in which we saw each other
last," said Mr. Duncannon.

"Jermyn Street instead of Snowdon 
though, to be very particular, our last
parting was at Haddington. And how
have you been ever since ? "

'' Oh, ' as the indifferent children of
the earth.' By-the-by, I congratulate
you."

o

Orlando started and turned red. '' What
upon ? "

'' Didn't I see your name half-way up a
column of university intelligence ? "

Oh, yes. Thank you. And didn't I
see yours in the Academy catalogue ? "

'' I dare say you did. I had a thing 
hung in a very decent place, too. I have
a full conviction that it was only because
my frame happened to fit the hole."

Have you anything, this year ? "

Two portraits, and a little Welsh landscape
that I did that summer when I was
with you. I am painting an old man in
the room above this, now ; that is how I
came to be here. I never knew such a
wandering, restless fellow as he is. He
has been going to sit to me any time these
two years, but he has never had a long-enough
time disengaged until now, when
he is held fast by an attack of rheumatism
in the leg. I said to him it was not a

good time to have his portrait painted, but
he advised me to take him while I could,
and I thought, perhaps, I had better. He
is first-rate company, except that he howls
out now and then when the pain seizes
him. I wish I had seen all the forelsn
places that he has."

That is the old cry. Your heart is as
much set upon Rome as ever, then ? "

'' Oh yes ; what is an artist worth that
hasn't been there ? And I am beginning
to see my way to it, too."

I am very glad to hear it. I always
told you you would succeed."

I can pay my way comfortably, without
too much calculation ; that's as much
as I look for yet, and as much as a single
man ought to want."

Unless, indeed, he wants a wife," said
Orlando.

He mustn't want what he can't afford,"
Duncannon answered. " And now about

you ; you are not here for good and all,
are you ? "

'' Oh no ; only till I get tired of It, or
take a fancy for green fields again."

Enjoying the world, I take It, as a
gentleman at large ? "

Something: of that kind."

A very useless, dangerous, and unproductive
employment."

Orlando broke into a smile.

'what ,are you going to do this
evening ? "

Going to an ' at home ' at Lady Ellen
Darling's."

'' There's a waste of time ! You'll stand
two or three hours In a suffocating atmosphere,
and say things, not worth saying, to
people you never saw before, and don't
ever wish to see again."

Orlando laughed quietly.

And if you do find a seat by a pleasant
companion you will have to give It up to

some old woman who won't say ' thank
you.' If you were a rising artist, now,
and had to make yourself known, there
would be some sense in it. But as it

is But I suppose you do it because

you like it."

That is exactly the reason. Everybody
has not your taste for a hermitage,
you know. I suppose you will retire to
an artistic solitude, where you will meditate
and smoke, with your feet on the hob, and
your collar off ? "

'' Neat  but you're mistaken. There
never was a more sociably disposed person
than I am. That's why I hate what you
call society, so much. As it happens, I
am going to the theatre with two particularly
charming girls and their mother ; and
I shall walk home with them, and there
will be a very quiet supper, and a very
intelligent discussion of the play, and perhaps
the prettiest of the sisters will sing

over the tunes of the songs. And now I
must go, for I must get something to eat
at home, and wash ni}- brushes ; and it is
not so very early. Don't you envy me ? "

Not a bit. When are you coming to
paint this old man again ? "

"Thursday, at three."

Look in upon me when you come away.
Share my lonely dinner, will you ? "

Thanks, I will. Don't come out ; I
know my way down by this time."

They shook hands, cordially, and Dun-cannon
added, '' On the whole, you know,
it IS pleasant to see you again."

I am glad you think so, and I quite
agree."

They nodded to each other, and Dun-cannon
resumed the hurried descent which
his recognition had interrupted.

Orlando, left alone, ate his solitary meal,
and, soon after, proceeded, with much time
and care, to dress for the evening. His

thoughts, which had travelled back to the
Welsh wanderings In which he had first met
Duncannon, turned again to the future 
the immediate future, which was so full
of promise. The Invitation, filled up with
his name by the hand of Elizabeth, lay
before him, and roused fresh gladness every
time it met his eyes. A nearer and sweeter
past than that In Wales awoke his memories.
Softly at first, but with a gradual
unintentional crescendo, he began to sing
the song which he had sung to her accompaniment.
Linked to that arose the little
French duet, with its 'RIons, rions toujours,'
which, once stirred from oblivion, never
failed to linger for days in the recollection.
Well might Duncannon's rheumatic sitter
on the second floor, finding himself possessed
by a little French spirit which
exhorted him to laugh, inquire whether
the gentleman below was a professional
singer, and whether his practising were

likely to continue. At last the full-toned
voice was silent, and the singer went away
to Portland Place.

Orlando enjoyed, perhaps, less of Miss
Glendinning's immediate society during
that evening at her aunt's house than at
any of his previous meetings with her, yet
at no previous meeting had his love made
so great and rapid an advance. He watched
her reception of Lady Ellen's guests, and
imagined her In the position of hostess at
Sherborne. Her manner, he' thought, was
altogether perfect. She had none of the
Intolerable pretension of condescension,
but a sweet, natural graciousness which
never failed. To him, her charm was a
thing Individual, part of herself, as the
perfume is part of the rose.

Captain Grove, who also was observing
her, could have told precisely wherein It
consisted. The peculiarity, he would have
explained, lay simply in the fact that, being

a most beautiful woman, she never behaved
as if her beauty counted for anything in
her relations towards other people. Such
a bearing, it appeared to Orlando, would
be in complete harmony with the 'state and
ancientry ' of his own home. He set her
figure in the framework of the dark
wainscoting, and fancied her portrait,
hanging as the crowning glory, in the
family collection. He even knew the
place where it should hang. From these
pleasing dreams he was recalled by seeing
Lawrence O'Brien at Elizabeth's elbow.
He looked round for that other object of
his suspicion, Gilbert. But Gilbert was
not paying any attention to Elizabeth. It
rather seemed his desire to cultivate the
society of Orlando, to whom he presently
came. And there was something so manly,
simple, and straightforward about him  to
say nothing of his having what our Elizabethan
writers would call ' a peculiar gift ina

smile '  that Orlando found it quite impossible
to keep up his prejudice against
him. One hint of Millie would have
sufficed to make them friends for ever; but
Gilbert gave no such hint, and Orlando's
mind was too full to receive it unless it
was directly presented to him.

While they were still together, Lady
Ellen came to bid her nephew sing. He
went away obediently to the piano. Lady
Ellen, taking his place, asked Orlando
whether he had yet seen the Academy.
(It was the first week in May, and picture
gossip was going on all about them.)

He answered, *' No, not yet."

'will you come with us tomorrow
morning ? I always go early in the day 
to see the pictures, not the bonnets. We
shall be there soon after ten, if you care
to meet us."

Orlando said " Thank you," and resolved
to be at the entrance from the

moment that the hour of ten should strike.
An old lady drawing near, he stood up to
give her his place  not without an amused
recollection of Duncannon's prophecy  and
went towards the piano to be near Elizabeth
when she rose from it. When she
did so, O'Brien was still beside her. She
turned from him to Orlando. There was
a slight increase of colour on her cheek.
Orlando was sure that this marked attention
was annoying to her. When Lawrence
struck Into their talk she gave a quiet,
polite reply, and, a moment after, begged
him to warn Miss Tenby, who had a cold,
that she was sitting in a draught. He
went, reluctantly, and did not soon return.

Such an evening as this must be very
tiring for you," said Orlando.

''A little  but I like it. And the people
are mixing very well, to-night. Captain
Grove's being here makes a great difference."


Orlando, after that, observed Captain
Grove with rather more attention, and saw
that it did make a difference. The first
principle of that polished gentleman's conduct
was to leave a good Impression of
himself upon every person to whom he
spoke. Long and careful pursuance of
this principle had given him a kind of
sovereignty in the circle to which he
belonged. Many another girl besides
Elizabeth would have accepted his wooing
in the same spirit. Yet Captain Grove
was by no means a very clever man, nor
had he that stamp of goodness which may
give personal Influence to even a dull man.
He was merely a living Instance of Bacon's
truism, that ' every man profited In that
he most intended.' Captain Grove's intentions
aimed no higher than a certain
low ideal of society success. The winning
of a woman Infinitely more noble than himself
was something by the way, and some-vol.

I. o

thing which might possibly become, after a
while, rather a weariness than a joy.

Naturally, these ideas did not present
themselves to Orlando's mind. His
thoughts but rested a moment upon
Captain Grove, and then returned to Elizabeth.


I wish we shone a little more in the
musical line," said she. '' I won't ask you
to sing to-night, because, of course, you
have no music ; but if you would bring in
something and try over, some morning
before next time, it would be really kind."

Oh, I should be pleased."

Thank you very much. Gilbert is so
lazy ; he doesn't practise, though I offer
to play as many accompaniments as he
pleases."

What a casting," thought Orlando, '' of
pearls before swine ! "

This was about the limit of their conversation,
for she espied a lady sitting

solitary in a corner, and went away to
talk to her.

The next morning Orlando posted himself
punctually near the top of the wide,
Burlington House staircase. Before long
he saw the group for which he was watching
: Lady Ellen, tall and dignified, wearing
a very impressive bonnet ; Elizabeth, calm
and graceful, simply dressed, rather adorning
than adorned by what she wore ; and
Gilbert, whose manly form and face made
a contrast to the slender beauty of his
cousin, which was very becoming to both.
Orlando met them as they passed through
the turnstile, d.nd was complimented on his
punctuality. Lady Ellen, without any
secondary motive, attached Gilbert to herself;
it suited her to have a catalogue-bearer
whom she miorht bid be silent, and
who would not look for polite remarks from
her. Thus Orlando was left to bliss and
]\Iiss Glendinning. His attention was so

much absorbed that he quite forgot to lookout
for Duncannon's pictures. But, presently,
circumstances reminded him of his
duty In this respect. They had joined
company with Lady Ellen and Gilbert,
and were sitting In the large room, resting
and observing the swaying crowd of gazers.

"Do you see those two girls ? " said
Elizabeth. '' I have been watching them
for a long time. They look so nice, and
seem so quiet and Interested. I suppose
that Is their mother with them."

Orlando looked critically at the young
ladies so pointed out. They were slim,
graceful girls. One, the fairer, was decidedly
pretty, with a sweet, rather melancholy
face  a model for Ophelia or
Margaret. The other, with less beauty,
had a keener glance, a swifter play of
feature, a promise of more humour lurking
in eye and lip. The mother resembled
both daughters, but her face had more



of settled meaning, and expressed a very
pleasant combination of intelligence, benevolence,
and good sense. While they
were still under observation, a young man
and a young woman joined them. The
young woman was manifestly another and
solder sister ; the man was Duncannon.

Here comes a third sister, Lizzie," said
Gilbert; "and, I should say, a lover."

Why, I know him," said Orlando ; '' he
is an artist. We travelled together in
Wales, and I met him up here, yesterday,
quite by chance. I must go and speak
to him."

'' Oh, do," said Elizabeth ; " and find
out, if you can, who those nice-looking
girls are."

Orlando rose, and Duncannon at the
same moment saw him and came towards
him.

You here ? Well, what do you think
of it ? "

*'Oh, I call It a good year," answered
Orlando, to whom any pictures seen In
such company would have appeared beautiful,
but who would have been hard
pushed to give a reasonable account of
any one of them.

Are you alone ? That Is the proper
way to see pictures."

Orlando could not help laughing. " And
you are with three ladies ! "

'' I ? Oh, I am different. I have been
here, more or less, ever since it opened.
I can very well afford to act as guide
to my friends for once. And there are
people, though they are rare, with whom
it is advantageous to go round a picture-gallery.
My companions are of that
kind."

*' May I ask, are they the same young
ladles with whom you were going to the
theatre last night ? "

'' Yes, they are ; and if you want to hear

more about them, I'll tell you when I see
you tomorrow. But now I must go after
them, for they are going into the next
room where my two portraits are, and I
would not miss their first remarks on any
account."

He walked away quickly, and Orlando
returned to his companions, smiling.

Well, Mr. Sherborne, who are they ? "

I don't know, except that they are the
same whom he spoke very highly of, yesterday,
and that he values their art-criticism
so highly that he would on no
account lose their remarks upon his own
work."

'' I should say," said Gilbert, " that your
friend, Mr. "

Duncannon.'*

'' Had an attachment to one of those
young ladies."

'now, that is so like a man!" exclaimed
Elizabeth. " You never can think people

can be friends without something of that
sort."

*swell, Lizzie, and, as a general rule,
they can't."

I call it horrid to think like that. And
you yourself are just a proof to the contrary.
At least, I trust, Gilbert, that you
dont suppose I have been nourishing a
romantic passion for you, all these years ? "

'' Indeed I don't ; but that is different."

'rand how do you know that it isn't
different with Mr. Duncannon, too ? Very
likely these girls are artists. They look
as if they might be."

'rand what do you know of the looks
of lady-artists ? If they are at all like
male artists of the same age, they would
not be half so neat and trimly got up.
Just look at Mr. Sherborne's friend. I
don't want to say anything rude about any
friend of yours, Sherborne, but I could
have told that he was an artist by his

boots, alone. Now, the boots of those
ladies were as neat as your own, Lizzie."

Of course ladies' boots are neat, and
would be if they were fifty times artists.
But come, let us go into the next room
and look at Mr. Duncannon's pictures.
Auntie is always talking of having my
portrait painted ; perhaps Mr. DuncannOn
may be an unappreciated genius, whom
it would be a triumph to be painted by."

They went on, and Mr. Duncannon's
portraits were found worthy of all praise,
but not exactly suggestive of unappreciated
genius. Later, in another room, they came
upon a little Welsh landscape, which was
more interesting, because Orlando knew
the place, and could tell how and when
it was sketched. They sat down before it.
It was hung high, so that the crowd did
not much impede their view ; and Orlando
began to talk of his days with the painter
in Wales, and of Snowdon in a mist so

thick that they dared neither go forward
nor back, but lay down in the shelter of
a rock, and there waited half a day and
a night, until the next sun rose clear over
an endless outlook of valleys.

A time spent together in that way, with
the doubt whether we should live to comedown
again, was enough to make friends
of us."

"Yes, indeed."

We each promised to go to the other s
people, if either should be lost, and we
wrote upon a letter, in case neither should
get away. It read so strangely afterwards."


'eyes, it must have done. Did you
keep it ? "

I showed it to my father, and he kept
it, because, as he said, it was meant for
him. And then we talked. We told each
other all about our plans and hopes. The
night seemed long enough to have remembered

and repeated every thought we ever
had."

I can fancy you did not sleep."
Indeed, we did. We slept a good
many hours, and we both dreamed that we
were at home. But you can think what
a joy it was to see the sun coming up
at last. I think I never was so cold as
in that half-hour before the dawn. Afterwards,
when we got down into the valley
again, we could not help feeling that there
was something absurd in the whole affair.
Of course we were intensely thankful ; but,
somehow, it seemed such an anti-climax
to come down and get dry clothes, and
a hot breakfast, by an Inn fire. And what
a breakfast we ate ! I heard the women
of the house exclaiming over us in Welsh,
and every one of them found a different
excuse to come in and look at us."

I don't wonder you like Mr. Dun-cannon
s picture. Did he do it before
that, or after ? "

Two days after. I caught a frightful
cold, and wasn't up to walking. So he did
that from a window, while I lay upon the
hearth rug, wretched."

'' I am glad to have seen it," said Elizabeth.


She lifted her eyes to It again, and
Orlando had a wild hope that her interest
In it might be a sign of love.

'' It is not sold," said she ; for this was
in the days when a red star of honour still
adorned the frames of favoured pictures.

And, in making this commonplace
remark, she had no other than the
commonplace thought which it directly
expresses.

But to Orlando, her words at once suggested
the scheme of buying the little
picture and keeping his purchase secret
until such time as she herself might see it
hanging at Sherborne.

Gilbert, at this point, appeared with a

message from Lady Ellen that she thought
it time to go home to luncheon, and hoped
Mr. Sherborne would come with them.

Mr. Sherborne was naturally extremely
willing. And after luncheon the four went
into the shady Park Crescent Gardens,
where they found Miss Tenby, reading
under a tree, and where they sat, gossipping
pleasantly, for nearly an hour. Then
Elizabeth declared that she must eo home,
and Orlando asked leave to accompany her.
As they walked together, the subject of
songs arose, and she was earnest in desiring
that he would fix a day to come and try
some, to her aunt's piano, and to her own
accompaniment. When he left her, at her
own door, it was just past four ; and they
had been together since ten. What a day
of memories !

In Bond Street, he passed Captain Grove,
on his way from the War Office. It did
not enter Orlando's mind to associate his
return with Elizabeth's.

CHAPTER X.

IN FRIENDLY CONVERSATION.

Two friends, and at that happy time of life
When every bird sings prophecies."

M. 0. a

Orlando and Duncannon were sitting
together, the next evening, in Orlando's
room. A pleasant aroma of newly smoked
tobacco encircled them. Their talk was
the talk of youth  personal, egotistical,
fresh, frank, and flavoured with a delightfully
unconscious arrogance. The subject
of the three young ladies who had been
with Duncannon at the Academy had not
as yet been touched. At last, after a little
interval of silence, he made a speech, which
Orlando took to be a prelude.

"If ever I do any good in this world,"
he said, flinging away, with energetic
emphasis, the end of his cigar, " it will be
owing to a woman."

' Et tu Brute ? '/' murmured Orlando.
'' I do believe," he continued, aloud, with
the gravity of mature conviction, "that
there is nothing like the love of a oood
woman for brininof out the best of a man."

Duncannon chuckled. " I didn't say she
loved me. She didn't. She was full of a
beneficent, large-hearted benevolence, and
she bestowed some of it on me, who
wanted it badly enough, Heaven knows."

Orlando continued to smoke, and awaited
further communications.

Should you like to know who it was ? "

I am a little curious."

"It was Mrs. Cash, then, the mother of
those girls you saw yesterday ; a widow
with children almost as old as I am. She
had known something  not very much 

of my people, and she happened to hear
I was all alone up here in town, and pretty-ill
off, and  well, I vas getting mixed up
with rather a rowdy lot of fellows. What
can a man do ? You can't live altogether
solitary. It gets to be like a bodily pain
upon you to have some company, and
laughing, and talking, about you. And a
shabby, poor artist of a fellow isn't able to
choose his own society. You must take
what you can get. And oh, if you knew
how I used to long for some place that was
bright and clean, and just to be spoken toby
a nice woman ! And one day  I know
I had been awfully wretched, thinking :
what was the good of trying to do anything,
when there was nobody to care whether I
succeeded ?  the girl came up, and said
there was a lady waiting to see me, downstairs.
Didn't I make haste to brush my
hair straight and wash my hands ?  and I
flung a whole drawerful of things on the

floor, trying to find a clean collar. And in
Mrs. Barton's old front parlour, there she
was. Not pretty, you know, or grand ; justa
quietly dressed, middle-aged widow. Buta
lady, you know. And she said how she
had heard I was here, and she knew how
dull it was for a young man alone in
London. She had come on purpose to ask
me to come in, often, of an evening, to see
her and her daughters. And she gave me
her card with her address upon it, and
made me promise to come in the next
evening. I don't know what I said  I
don't believe I half thanked her properly,
and it was all so soon over  but when I
got upstairs again, and had the card in my
hand, I can't tell you the change that had
come over everything. I set to work, and
painted, and sang over my work like anything."


'' And of course you went ? "

You may be very sure of that. They

VOL. I. P

live In Gower Street. I used always to
think, till I knew them, that it was the
dreariest street in London. It was a nasty,
damp, November night, just the night to
be wretched, if you had not something
pleasant to look forward to. I was shown
into the room where they were all sitting,
Mrs. Cash and the four girls."

Four ? "

Yes ; there's a little one  Viola. It
seemed quite a roomful to me, and I was
awfully shy of them at first."

Orlando smiled to himself at the incongruous
image of Duncannon overcome by
bashfulness.

But, in five minutes, they had set meat
my ease. They were so simple, and
friendly, and seemed so really glad to have
me. And it wasn't as if I was as successful
even as I am now. I had not done
anything. If ever there was a 'detrimental,'
I was one. And then they sang  two of

them sing together delightfully  and they
talked about pictures ; not just senseless
gossip, but real intelligent appreciation.
And they asked, but so nicely, whether
I would let them see some of my work ;
just as if it was I that was to do them a
kindness. But the thing that touched me
most of all was this. They had some tickets
for the next ' Saturday Popular,' and Sylvia
that's the second  was going, but the
others could neither of them go with her ;
they were invited somewhere, I think. So
Mrs. Cash  not one of the girls  asked me
if I would go. I did feel honoured, I can tell
you. I felt like the man in ' Les miserable
' when the bishop gives him the candlesticks.
And, on the Saturday, we went.
You must have lived in the way that I had,
for six months, to know how I felt. It was
like an exaltation in my own eyes to walk
down Regent Street with a girl like that,
and to sit there with her in the concert-room,

and see her smile when I spoke to
her. There's something about all those
girls that I never saw so fully in any
others ; they are so genuine and kindly, so
simple and yet so clever."

Orlando thought how Elizabeth's womanly
instinct had detected their virtues at
first sight.

'' And I had never heard such music,
either. It was all like a new world. Well,
that was the beginning, and since that, I
have been there often, and they are the
best friends I have. I am painting Sylvia's
portrait, now that my Academy work is
done."

She seems to be your favourite."

Oh no ; it is not because of that. I
rather think I like Julia best. It is because
she is to be married some time next
year. She is engaged to a sailor, and they
will like to have her portrait. I don't
deny," he added, smiling, " that she is the

prettiest of the three, and that that, perhaps,
may have made a difference."

I call such a woman as that an angel,
in the old, original meaning of the word,"
Orlando remarked.

So she is," said Duncannon. '' Should
you like to know her ? "

He put the question with a magpie-like,
upturned eye

Indeed I should."

They are women's rights reformers ;
Mrs. Cash lectures," Duncannon proceeded,
in an easy voice.

'' Oh-h ! " said Orlando ; and his face
decidedly fell.

Duncannon laughed, shortly.

There was an interval, short in actual
time, but long in its sense of division.

You disapprove of that kind of thing ? "
said Duncannon.

I must say I do," Orlando answered,
apologetically. "It seems to me so  so
unwomanly."

Duncannon sprang up, and stood kicking
one heel against his chair ; a spot of
red had risen on each of his cheek-bones.
There, that's it ! " he said, with his abrupt
laugh. *' Unwomanly ! Who is to do it
for them, if they don't ? No man will."

Orlando said nothing, but it is perhaps
needless to remark that his views were not
materially altered by these rather interjectional
observations. He asked himself
what would be the attitude of Elizabeth
towards such a question, and was confirmed
in his opinion that it was decidedly unwomanly
for a woman to lecture.

Why, she might as well preach," he
said.

** Well, and / don't see why she shouldn't,
if she has talent enough ; it wasn't given
her for nothing, I suppose."

To this Orlando had no answer. The
opposition of sentiment to argument is
unsatisfactory, and leads to loss of temper

on both sides. Duncannon, too, felt that
it was better not to push the discussion
further.

'you don't know many working women,
I suspect," he said, as if seeking excuses to
himself for Orlando's prejudices. " And I
dare say you never read Clough's ' Bother
of Tober-na-Vuolich.'"

Oh, but I have, though. I am bound
to say I don't quite see how it applies."

Duncannon laughed, a good, sunny laugh
this time, that was allowed to run out to
completeness, and quoted, merrily 

' Ah, you have much to learn ; we can't know all
things at twenty.' "

More soberly, he went on, " You do know

Clough, then ? "

I have read the poems ; I can't say I

know them well''

What do you think of them ? "

"It is a difficult question to answer in

that ' stand-and-deliver ' sort of way. To

tell the truth, they rather annoyed me.
They were like the writing of a man who
isn't master of his trade  just as college
verses are ; as if a sculptor should chip out
his marble with a spade."

'' Stop. That's a couplet. Not a bad
one.

He isn't master of his trade ;

He hacks his marble with a spade.

Perhaps that is rather true of the form.
You see, I don't read much poetry myself,
and I am not so sensitive to that. And
yet, Sherborne, think of the songs, how
musical they are 

How smooth we gode, how softly ! Ah !
Were life but like the gondola ! '

And, then, those songs of the ship."

Yes, it is true ; but would they have

been so smooth if Clough had not read

Tennyson ? "

'would you and I have been what weare,

if we had been born last century ?

Upon my word, I think you might ; you
remind me a little of Sir Charles Grandison."


*' Allow me to point out one difference,
at least. Sir Charles Grandison always
had the most of the conversation, and the
best of the argument."

'' Ah, yes ! He didn't know me," the
irrepressible Duncannon returned. " But
don't you really like Clough ? Putting
aside the form, don't you think the thoughts
are fine ? Don't you think they express
just the thoughts of the age  what everyone
must have felt, at some time or
another ? "

Honestly, I can't say that I do. Is
there that dissatisfaction, that constant self-inquiry'
to know what it is one really
wants ? I don't find it."

'' Lucky you, that's all," Duncannon interjected.


'' And then when he talks of love ; why,

his men are never quite sure whether they
are in love with one woman, or another,,
or either of the two. That is not natural."

I don't know," said Duncannon, slowly
and impersonally.

Quick came Orlando's counter-blow
- Well, I do."

The colour rose in his face as quickly.
He said no more. Neither did Dun-cannon,
but presently repeated, gently,
caressingly  

' He has a life small happiness that gives
Who, friendless, in a London lodging lives,
Dines in a dingy chop-house, and returns
To a lone room ; while all within him yearns
For sympathy, and his whole nature burns
With a fierce thirst for some one  is there none ? 
To expend his human tenderness upon.
So blank, and hard, and stony is the way
To walk,  I wonder not men go astray.'

There, those are the lines I loved Clough
for, first ; and that is the state of things
from which Mrs. Cash saved me, and so I
stick up for both of them. And if you

will read your Clough diligently, and come
with me to call in Gower Street, you will
go some way to learning a little of the
much you have to learn. And if you
won't, why you'll have it to pray for
among your negligence and ignorances,
that's all. You may laugh, but I'm in
earnest."

I did not laugh ; and I will go with
you to call on Mrs. Cash whenever you
please  if I may."

CHAPTER XI.

IN GOWER STREET.

They found Lucretia spinning, with all her maidens
about her."

Orlando found himself standing with
Duncannon, an afternoon or two later,
upon the doorstep of Mrs. Cash's house, in
Gower Street. The door was opened, and
their ears were at once saluted by a peal
of girlish laughter from some upper part of
the house. The room Into which they were
shown looked with two windows on the
street, and had by nature a rather gloomy
appearance. The character of the inhabitants
had, however, gone far to modify
that of the room. A piano stood open

with music on it, and the pretty Silvia was
busy at the dining-table, putting out wildflowers
from a large heap before her, into
vases, and into soup-plates filled with sand.
The delicate perfume of the many primroses
met them as they came in. Mrs.
Cash was sitting near one of the windows,
taking notes from a book, open on a read-inkstand,
by her. She rose, and came
towards them with a kindly smile of welcome.
Standing thus, face to face with
her, Orlando was struck by the full, open-eyed
and kindly gaze which she turned
upon him. Her voice, also, was full and
clear, and her words had no mincing-utterance.


'' I am glad to see you, Mr. Sherborne.
We have heard of you so very often from
Mr. Duncannon. This is my second
daughter  Silvia."

Silvia bowed to both of them, and said,
in a pretty, flute-like voice, *' I won't offer

to shake hands with anybody ; my fingers
are all wet and sandy."

"What a heap of flowers!" said Dun-cannon,
taking up an anemone or two from
the pile.

'cecil brought them from HIghgate.
She has just come home."

'' I thought I heard her laugh, as we
came in."

Oh, that was at Viola's letter. Julia
got one this morning."

And how is Viola ? Pretty lively, I
suppose, from that."

The youngest of my daughters is
spending her holidays in the country,"
Mrs. Cash explained to Orlando.

While she was speaking, the other
two sisters came in, looking very much
alike, and Orlando was introduced to them.
Julia had her little sisters open letter in
her hand ; Cecily's face was bright with
amusement. Orlando observed a slight

difference between their manner of speech
and that of the society to be met at Lady
Ellen's. They spoke with something more
of precision, and with a completer utterance,
using more and deeper notes of voice.
The little Viola's letter was adorned
with illustrations, which were handed round,
and fully accounted for Cecily's laughter.
They were little sketches, in pencil, of
people and of animals, childishly executed
enough, but showing a quick eye for
character and a perception of the comic
which could only have belonged to a child
in a quick-witted home. Orlando was a
good deal amazed at them, and thought
that the household which could produce
so precocious a little person must be a
quaint one. His wonder was further increased
by an extract or two from the
letter, written in a self-possessed and connected
style which appeared to him most
childlike.

Cecily had taken a work-basket as she
sat down, and busied herself upon some
embroidery of a fashion new to Orlando,
working upon dark-blue satin in pale-blue
and white silks, not from a pattern, but
from a black and white drawing of an
antique medallion. Julia selected three or
four flowers from Silvia's pile, and arranging
them carefully in a slender little vase,
took them to a side-table, and began to
sketch their outline.

Was it your first visit to the Academy
the other day ? " Mrs. Cash began.

*' Yes ; but I am afraid I didn't profit
as much as I ought to have done. I found
the people so much more interesting than
the pictures."

Then I suppose we must not ask what
you thought of them, nor which you liked
the best ? "

*' Oh, I know which I liked best ; but
that was on personal grounds ; it was   "

'' Now, don't," interrupted Duncannon,
from the table where he was helping Silvia
with her flowers  " dont tell us that you
liked a picture because some one else did."

'' No, I wasn't going to say that. It
was that little Welsh thing of yours."

'' You are not a fair critic of that," said
Duncannon.

'' Ah, you were with Mr. Duncannon
when he painted it, were you not ? " said
Julia.

Cecily looked up with an amused little
smile, and Orlando felt convinced that
Duncannon had given an account of the
painting, and of his own desolate condition
on the hearth rug. He laid up the
point for future inquiry.

'' I think that  associations apart  Mr.
Duncannon's portraits are better than his
landscapes," said Mrs. Cash, looking kindly
at the young painter as she spoke. He,
on his part, turned round at once to listen

VOL. I. Q

to her. " You have so marked a gift for
Likeness. I know very few portraits that
catch the trick of expression better than
those two of yours."

That I could not judge of, you see,
not knowing the originals," said Orlando.

Oh, we have a photograph of one of
them Mrs. Lisle," said Silvia. "Would
you mind passing that album, Mr. Dun-cannon
? I don't like to touch it."

The album was handed, and Cecily
showed the portrait. From that, Orlando
turned to the others in the book. The
large proportion represented women or
girls. To most of them Cecily added
some little explanatory comment, and many
of these were rather surprising to Orlando
as, for instance, '' She writes leading
articles for one of the newspapers, and the
same paper cries out against female suffrage
and the influence of women in politics;" or,
'' She is a student of the Academy ; "

' That is a lady whom Julia met at the
British Museum ; " '' That is Miss Owen,
who had Silvia's district before she took
it  but she went to South Africa as a
missionary."

Orlando glanced at Silvia amongst her
flowers, and thought that she was the
sweetest sister of the three. She was
just gathering up her last blossoms, and
Duncannon had gone to look over and
counsel Julia.

Mamma," said Silvia, " I think I will
just go down and take some of these to
Jimmy Williams while they are fresh. A
few flowers are a perfect blessing there."

Very well, my dear, do. And ask
Anne to stand that plateful in a cool place,
that they may go into the hospital, tomorrow
morning."

Silvia bore away the plate and the bunch
of flowers, Duncannon flying to open the
door for her.

And that's my little sister," said Cecily,
as Orlando reached the first page of the
album.

He looked with some curiosity at the
photograph. It showed a serious little
girl, who looked out with a fixed gaze at
the spectator.

'' It is not very good," said Mrs. Cash,,
glancing at the book and smiling.

The likeness might be unsatisfactory, but
the memory it recalled was evidently sweet.
Duncannon also, whose bad habit it was
to roam the room with his hands in his
pockets, instead of sitting still in an unobtrusive
manner, approached, and looked
over Orlando's shoulder.

No, it doesn't do her justice a bit. No
photographs ever do, to a face that's worth
painting. They give an intelligent person
the stolid expression of dumb attendants
on the stage."

'' Oh, that reminds me," said Julia.

"' We want some of your assistance, please.
The Millers are going to get up some
tableaux vivants. Can you give us an idea
for a subject ? They thought of Cinderella,
but I am sure none of our feet are
small enough ; and it is not very original.
We have made up our minds to Macbeth
and the witches. That is very easily and
effectively done : a deep pan, with a saucer
of burning spirit and salt (you can't
imagine the ghastly effect that gives), and
sheets and table-cloths for drapery."
That might be worth sketching."
Oh, you shall sketch us as much as
you will, if you will only help us to something
new and striking. I think I can
promise that."

"And are you going to be a witch ? "
''I? No, indeed; I am only general
aid and manager. Fancy my pupils inviting
me to act a witch, with my hair
down, and my shoes and stockings off!"

"Oh, I didn't know. I thought it
might be part of the newer and more
liberal system of education. I met you
once, remember, riding on a donkey, in
company with your pupils, on Hampstead
Heath."

There was a general laugh, in which
Julia took her full share.

Cecily asked Orlando whether he could
help Julia with a suggestion. Duncannon,
however, anxious to make his peace,
began, '* Did you ever see a picture called,
I think, ' The Game of Life,'  a man
playing at chess with an evil spirit for
his soul, while an angel hangs over him
on the other side ? "

No."

"The greatest light falls on the angel,
white ; the greatest dark on the evil spirit,
black, hooded  only a claw-like hand
stretched out to move a piece. The
man is in a half-light ; the whole composition

oval, the angel being the highest
point. The difficulty would be in sending
a stream of lioht on her. A lantern would
do it."

willie Miller has a bull's-eye lantern
for his moth-hunting." ;

'' The very thing."

'Silvia must be the angel. You must
show us the exact positions when she
comes in."

' But she may be gone a long time,
perhaps."

 Oh no ; she won't stay, because it is
not her day. And it is not far off; it
is just this side of the Seven Dials."

 Seven Dials ! " exclaimed Orlando, involuntarily,
and with all the exaggerated
horror of a countryman's ignorance of
London. ' Surely Miss Cash is not gone
there alone ? "

Oh yes. It is her district," said
Cecily.

And Mrs. Cash added, " Silvia is as safe
among the people there as she is in this
room  except, Indeed, from the chance of
fever, and that, companionship could not
save her from."

Yet Orlando could not be quite easy
until he saw Silvia come in.

She looked a little pale, and sat down
without speaking.

Well, dear ? " said her mother.

I am glad I went. Poor little fellow !
I don't think he will be alive for any,
next time Cecily brings them."

So bad as that ? " said Julia.

Silvia nodded. " One can't be sorry.
The poor child's life is one suffering. But
it seems 'a piece of childhood thrown
away.

As she sat, looking before her with a
wistful sadness in her tender, blue eyes,
Orlando understood why Julia had said
at once, '' Silvia must be the angel."

And are you coming to me, in
Newman Street, tomorrow ? " Duncannon
asked her. He, like the rest of the
world, had a softer tone In his voice for
Silvia.

'' Oh yes, please. After next week, my
holidays will be over, and I shall only
have Saturday mornings free. I had
better come as often now as you can
have me."

And the three attendant Graces," said
Duncannon, with a comprehensive bow,
'* will bring their book, and read."

I hope you appreciate the Implied
compliment, Silvia," said Mrs. Cash. " I
may, perhaps, be obliged to break off a little
sooner If I don't get time to prepare my
notes for Monday, but I dare say some one
will go on reading In my place."

'every well, then, tomorrow," said
Duncannon ; and Orlando, feeling that he
had already somewhat prolonged his visit

in his desire to see Silvia safely return,
now rose to take his leave.

Well ? " said Duncannon, inquiringly,
as they passed into Great Russell Street.

'' Well, if those are women's rights
reformers, they don't seem so very
terrible."

'sylvia, for instance," said Duncannon.
Don't you think her a little ' unwomanly
' ?"

How pretty she is ! " said Orlando.
'' But has she always that little melancholy
air f

Generally. I fancy she thinks upon
the perils of the seas.' "

'' I should like to see your portrait
of her."

'' Oh, it is on view in Newman Street
daily, until dusk. Admission free."

*' By-the-by, what is your number in
Newman Street ? " asked Orlando.

Duncannon told him, and then, standing

added, ** I have to call here about a
frame, so good-bye for the present."

They parted, and Orlando walked
homeward, considering whether it would
be permissible to go this afternoon and
try songs to Elizabeth's accompaniment.

CHAPTER XII.

IN A STUDIO.

books, we know,

Are a substantial world both pure and good :
Round these, with tendrils strong as flesh and blood,
Our pastime and our happiness will grow.
There find I personal themes, a plenteous store :
Matter wherein right voluble I am :
To which I listen with a ready ear."

A DAY or two later, Orlando fulfilled his
intention of visiting Duncannon's studio.
He was admitted to a large, light room,
where he found not only the artist, but also
Mrs. Cash and her three daughters. Silvia
was seated in a high chair, placed on a
slightly raised platform. Behind her was a
screen of dingy baize, making a background
from which her fair hair and delicately
tinted profile stood out like a fine cameo.

On an easel, planted at the other end of the
room, stood the unfinished portrait, ghastly
in its pale resemblance. Mrs. Cash, Julia,
and Cecily were sitting together on one
side. The two girls occupied a wide,
carved oak bench, Mrs. Cash a common
Windsor chair of red-stained deal. She
had a book in her hands, from which, ashe
came in, he heard her reading, in a
measured beat of verse.

'' Ah, Sherborne," said Duncannon, looking
up ; " come in."

'' Oh, but I am disturbing you," said
Orlando. '' I thought I should find you
alone."

'' Not at all," Duncannon answered  in
reference, it must be supposed, to the first
clause ; " we shall come to a rest in a few
minutes. Sit down."

Orlando looked round him dubiously,
and finding no chair, took his place on
the edge of the platform, almost at Mrs.
Cash's feet.

'' You were reading," said he ; '' don't let
me Interrupt you. I am so sorry to have
disturbed you."

Mrs. Cash seemed at first Indisposed to
continue, but seeing his entreaties to be
earnest, yielded. She was reading ' The
Spanish Gypsy,' and had reached the point
of Don Silva's hurried ride homeward to
find his betrothed gone. She read well,
with a liquid flow of rhythm and a delicate
fulness of expression, that yet never strove
to go beyond the province of recital into
that of the stage. There was no other
sound except the soft touch of Duncannon's
brush upon canvas or palette, and the clink
of his colour-tubes when they touched the
paint-box or one another. Once or twice
Cecily, bending to Julia's ear, whispered a
comment, as, for Instance, at the description
of the priest who rode

Firm in his saddle, stalwart and broad-backed,
Crisp-curled, and comfortably secular ; '

when It was evident that she suggested a
modern representative. The tale went on.
The picture rose before them of the hall,
with its many and motley tenants.

Good to paint," murmured Duncannon.

At the close of that scene, Mrs. Cash

paused, and Silvia came down from her

pedestal, to inspect her own likeness and

her sisters' work.

I should like to see Spain," sighed
Duncannon, whose desire for travel was
easily aroused.

How about the Spanish cookery ? "
asked Cecily.

Oh, I am not so particular, Miss Cecily,
as you. I should go in the time of fruit,
and trouble myself for little else than bread
and wine. It is not good policy to accept
ill-cooked dinners from one's landlady in
London, but abroad, the case is different.
If you go

Leaving home and ease,
A stubborn will to please,'

you must be content to please the stubborn
will and nothing else."

Orlando stood looking at the gradually
growing portrait.

What do you think ? " asked Dun-cannon,
turnings to him.

I am not artist enough to know. I
can see the likeness, of course ; but I
don't know whether the parts that seem
wrong are really faults or only incompleteness."


' O wise young judge,' " said Dun-cannon,
laying a hand on his shoulder.
I do perceive in you the germs of a good
critic ; that is to say, of a critic who knows
the limits of his own knowledge. To you
I will show other things, finished and unfinished,
and pay attention to what you say
of them."

*' Is not that rather a punishment for
speaking the truth, Mr. Duncannon ? " said
Julia, who also had drawn near.

Duncannon looked up quickly, to catch
her smile, and made no other answer.

May I stay and hear some more ? "
asked Orlando, fancying that they were
waiting to continue the sitting, in expectation
that he would go.

May he, Mrs. Cash ? " asked Dun-cannon.


With very much pleasure, as far as I
am concerned," Mrs. Cash answered, giving
to Orlando that sincere, kindly smile which
made everyday words from her full of
reality.

Orlando sat, and listened, with increasing
interest, to the love-sorrows of the duke.
Julia, who had something of the artist's
observant eye, noted the gradually deepening
intensity of his face, as he became
more and more self-forgetful. All were
sorry when the second book of the poem
was finished, and the sitting came to an

VOL. I. R

end. Orlando was surprised to find how
late It was.

'' You will come, next time, and hear the
rest, won't you ? " said Julia.

Orlando only awaited confirmation of the
invitation to give a glad acceptance. Julia
and Cecily rolled together their work,
Silvia resumed her hat and mantle, and
mother and daughters took their departure,
while Orlando lingered for another half-hour
looking over Duncannon's sketches.

On arriving at home, he found Gilbert
waiting for him with a proposal to row up
the river. They went accordingly, and
Orlando was by no means too love-sick to
enjoy the perfect afternoon, the delicious
motion, and the invigorating sense of power,
as the boat swung forward to his strokes.
They dined at Richmond, and pulled back,
under a darkening sky, to Putney. The
tide was against them, but the struggle
was an extra enjoyment. Both were

good oarsmen : Gilbert had, in his day,
rowed in a winning eight ; and a boat
upon the Sherril was among Orlando's
earliest and most continuous memories.
They landed at Putney, far advanced in
friendship, and resolving to repeat the
excursion.

That chance which, after neglecting the
introduction through all our previous years,
is hasty in presenting to us for the second
time a new acquaintance in the world of
words or thoughts, is sometimes equally
busy in regard to our human acquaintances.
Thus Orlando, ooinof within the same week
to a dance at the house of a college friend,
met Julia and Silvia Cash. His first impression
was of incongruity. It seemed
strange to him that these work-devoted
young women should be at a dance. Yet
they did not, as far as he could judge, seem
at all out of their element, but appeared to
enjoy their evening very fully indeed. He

danced with both of them  with Silvia
twice  and found them unusually pleasant
partners, simple and cheerful, and ready
with bright talk. He observed that others
seemed to share his opinion of them, for
they were seldom sitting out. More than
once he was reminded of Elizabeth's summing
up : " They look so nice, and seem
so quiet and interested."

Of Elizabeth herself he saw very little
during these few days. Once, however,
he met her in Rotten Row. She was
pale, and he thought looked anxious and
troubled." She was among a group of
acquaintances, of whom O'Brien was one.
She turned from him to Orlando, with a
look of escape on her face, and for some
few yards they walked side by side. She
had shaken hands with him in silence, and
as she walked she said not a word. He
respected her silence, and felt it a mark of
confidence for which to be grateful. At

parting, she gave him her hand, and said,
in an undertone, and with a quick smile
that failed to mount as high as to her eyes,
If you knew how thankful I am to you
for ten minutes of peace ! "

Orlando reflected a good deal upon that
utterance, and came to the conclusion
that O'Brien was the cause of her trouble.

This remembrance was in his mind when,
a few days later, he sat listening in the
studio, while Mrs. Cash read the closing-scenes
of ' The Spanish Gypsy ; ' and it
served rather to intensify than to weaken
his interest in the tale. His original shade
of mistrust towards Mrs. Cash had, by this
time, quite faded away. He would have
been as prompt as Duncannon himself to
repudiate the application of the name unwomanly
to any proceeding of hers, and it
Alas his full intention to attend the next
lecture that she should deliver. The
growing passion and sadness of the story,

losing nothing In the interpretation, went
home, with fullest accord, to Orlando's
heart. Like Claude Melmotte, he desired,
just now, to read no books that were not
tales of love. When Mrs. Cash's voice
ceased, leaving In his ears, during the
few minutes of rest, Fedalma's words 

The bonds Fedalma may not break for you
I cannot joy that you should break for her ; '

and of Silva's 

 This seems a valley in some strange, new world
Where we have found each other, my Fedalma ; '

the scene continued before him : he saw
the wide southern plain, the falling darkness,
the forms of the two lovers. But
Fedalma was Elizabeth. Just so would
Fedalma have spoken and have acted ; of
that he felt sure.

And now arose a debate as to Fedalma's
conduct.

Did she do right, do you think ? " said
Cecily. '' Ought she to have sacrificed
her lover to her father ? What do you

say, Silvia? Would you have given up
Charlie ? "

Silvia slightly blushed, and shook her
head. '' I don't think she did right," said
Silvia, breathing softly on that reed instrument,
her voice. " It is not what the Bible
says, is it  the leaving of father and
mother for that f "

She looked across to her mother, and
look and tone made the words express,
not the abridgment of love to father and
mother, but the exaltation of that other
love which was still greater.

Julia took up the question.

I rather agree with the young man in
the French play that Willie Miller is doing
for his examination. The girl says, when
her father wants her to give up her lover
because he is poor, and to marry a rich
man instead 

Un pere a des droits ; '

and he answers 

Et n'ai-je pas les miens ? '

I think Fedalma's duties were quite as
strong towards Don Silva as towards
Barca. I must say I don't sympathize
very much with Barca."

'' Common sense is the best guide in
those matters," began Duncannon, slowly ;
and then, seeing Mrs. Cash's eyes fixed
upon him in considerable astonishment,
corrected himself. " I don't mean exactly
that. What I mean is rather this : the
really right way, in justice to everybody
concerned, is generally the common-sense
way as well. There's a sort of instinct to
take the way that is the most unpleasant 
and showy  without any consideration
that other people are involved too."

As Max says to Thekla, in ' Wallenstein
; ' only I can't recollect the words,"
said Cecily.

But where would the story have been
if Fedalma had stayed ? " said her mother,
smiling. " I suspect one might parody

Bacon's words, and say of such problems,
as he says of love altogether, that they
have a larger part in plays and stories than
in real life."

Do you think that is true, in Bacon ? "
asked Orlando, looking suddenly up.

Mrs. Cash deliberated a moment, and
replied, " Yes, I do think so. And so will
you, Mr. Sherborne, when you are as old
as I am ; that is, if your life is at all after
the ordinary pattern."

'' Oh, but it won't be," said Duncannon.
'' He is fated beforehand. Have you not
observed his likeness to Sir Charles
Grandison ? "

'' I should consider that high praise, Mr.
Sherborne, if I were you. It would be a
great improvement if more modern young
men were a little like him."

*' Length of speech and all?" asked
Duncannon.

"Yes, Mr. Duncannon; length of speech

and all, If the politeness were to come with
It. I don't admire the saving of words,
when a young man says to me at supper,
Chicken ? ' ' Tongue ? ' I would much
rather wait the extra minute while he
took time to say, * May I give you ? '
And now let me leave off preaching, and
go on with George Eliot." This with a
smile that took out any sting from her
strictures.

As the full tragedy worked Itself out,
her listeners became more and more attentive.
The hope of some loophole of
escape, the desire, so unwillingly abandoned,
even at the last page, of some
happy final compromise, lent them Its
delusive light. But, page by page, It
dwindled until all was over. Mrs. Cash
softly closed the book, found Orlando's
eyes fixed upon her with a steady, faraway
gaze. The story had waked In him
a new feeling of possible loss and division

coming between Elizabeth and himself  a
new haste to make all sure. To-day or
tomorrow he would see her. Why linger
any more ?

Cecily, in a voice that had a trembling
pulse in it, said, " Oh, but I think she did
do right, after all."

Orlando started, and was recalled to a
knowledge of where he was.

'' What shall we read, next time ? " said
Duncannon.

'' And when will next time be ? " said
Julia. '' Sylvie is going to Tottenham
until Monday, and after that, she will have
her lessons again."

I suppose, then, Saturday week. Shall
we see you, Sherborne, or is your interest
at an end with the story ? "

'' I think I must look out for some fancy
work ; I feel so idle  a perfect drone in
the hive."

'' Oh, I'll give you a canvas to prepare

In coats of grey. Why didn't you mention
it before ? I have been wanting to try a
new plan that Allan told me of, but haven't
had time to prepare my canvas."

'' I shall be delighted to assist, however
humbly, in the service of art."

Duncannon called him *SIr Charles
Grandison,' and Julia reproved Duncannon
for Ingratitude.

'' Then I'll say good-bye for the present,
Mr. Sherborne," said Mrs. Cash. '' But
I hope you won't feel that that present
need extend as far as to Saturday week."

'thank you," said Orlando, with a
grateful smile.

They shook hands and parted " for the
present," as she had said, little dreaming
how long an Interval the words were to
cover.

CHAPTER XIII.

IN THE BOTANICAL GARDENS.

' O lassie, I maun love thee.'
O laddie, love na me.'
O lassie, I maun love thee.'
O laddie, love na me.
Love them wha has their hearts at home :
Mine's lang been far frae mc.' "

Calling, on the morrow, in Burlington
Street, Orlando was informed that Major
Glendinning had gone into the country,
and that Miss Glendinning was staying
with Lady Ellen Darling. Upon this he
discovered that it certainly was his duty
to visit Lady Ellen, and proceeded at once
to Portland Place. A carriage was waiting
before the door. On going in, he found
Elizabeth, her aunt, and Miss Tenby, just

prepared to go out, and began to think
that fortune had deserted his cause.

"We were going to the Botanical
Gardens," said Lady Ellen. " Miss Tenby
has never seen them, and my brother-in-law,
who is a Fellow, can give us admission
on any of the off-days. Of course you
have seen the gardens, Mr. Sherborne ? "

No, never."

'' Oh, then, perhaps you would be inclined
to come with us ? Our tickets admit
a fourth."

The invitation was joyfully accepted,
and the carriage proceeded on its way with
four occupants instead of three.

The Botanical Gardens, in their tranquillity,
present an aspect very different
from that by which they are more widely
known. Instead of serving merely as a
stage and scenery for a show of flowers
and fashions, they were now a sleepy
haunt of solitude and greenness. The main

walks had a peculiar character of their
own, from being bordered by long lines
of wooden posts and bars, the skeleton
framework of absent awnings. The party
went to the great glass-houses, looked at
a collection of hideously grotesque little
cactuses, whose names were as thorny as
themselves, and endured for a few moments
the damp heat in which flourished bananas,
palms, and other tropical wonders of surprising
shape and size. Then, coming out
into the cooler air (at which Miss Tenby
shivered and coughed), they went to look
at a little unbeautiful patch of ground,
which was a botanical garden in very
truth. For here, divided into tiny beds,
and each bed supplied with earth of a
suitable sort, grew, languidly, the various
families of English wild-flowers. Here
were stone-crops blooming more successfully
than the most, In a neat little crescent
of broken brickbats, sparsely sprinkled with

dust. Here were carefully encouraged
duck weeds, looking perversely inferior to
those that float, uninvited, on farm-ponds ;
and grasses that looked far more weedy and
seedy than those of an ordinary hatfield.
In this part of the garden were congregated
little knots of youths, who appeared to be
students. They carried books with bits
of paper hanging out of them, and wrote
ardently in note-books. They also shouted
to one another from distant corners, and
carried their chairs from point to point
in a very restless manner. In prettier,
but less scientific nooks, they had seen
scattered artists, male and female, sketching.
A few nurseries with children were
also visible, and in the glass-houses, they
had seen two Sisters of Charity.

Leaving the field-flowers, they came to
the lake, with its swans, its mock-rustic
bridges, and shady walks.

Elizabeth, all this time, had been unusually

silent. She looked pale, and
Orlando, mindful of her thanks for having
been left in peace, scarcely addressed her.
His heart sank as he thought that he
should have no opportunity, to-day, of
private speech vvth her. Miss Tenby,
unobservant, and quite happy in being
under her dear Lady Ellen's wing, chattered
on, making little, unoriginal observations
at every fresh object, and
constantly calling upon Elizabeth to look
at this or that.

Lady Ellen was a little tired. They sat
down on one of the seats by the water.

There is a very fine view from the
tower," said she to Orlando. " On a clear
day you can see all London. I don't feel
inclined to go up ; but, if you young
people would like to see it, I will sit here
and wait for you."

Oh, I would rather wait, too," said
Miss Tenby; "I would, indeed. I don't

VOL. I. s

like going up so many stairs ; it takes
away one's breath so. I would rather stay
with you, Lady Ellen."

Orlando looked at Elizabeth. The
sudden delight in his face might have
warned her to remain, but she was too
much preoccupied to notice it. She
rejoiced in the thought of a few minutes
of comparative solitude. Orlando, she
felt sure, would not persecute her with
small chatter when she longed to be quiet.

They ascended. At the top was a little
square platform with a low, embattled wall,
a flagstaff, an anemometer, and a few
chairs. Below them lay, indeed, all
London, wrapped in a pale-blue veil of
smoke. They looked southward, standing
side by side for a time without speaking.

"What a relief to get up so high !" said
Elizabeth. She spoke with a sigh, looking
out over the wall, unsuspicious of any
emotion on her companion's part.

I wish I might stand so for ever  with
you," said Orlando, speaking as she had
spoken, in a rather lowered voice, but withall
his story vibrating in it.

Elizabeth's face changed suddenly from
the white rose to the red. She turned
upon him with startled and alarmed inquiry
in her looks. The decision was
shown beforehand  the question and
answer given and received in that moment.
Orlando knew it, and refused to know it.

'' Ah ! I do wish it. To be with you
has been my one wish since the day you
passed me first in Shrubs's Wood. You
didn't remember."

"Oh, that day that day!" said Elizabeth,
almost with a cry. " Don't  don't !
you mustn't go on. It is no use. Oh,
I am so sorry!" She paused, quite pale
again. 'rand I was engaged, then, that
day, before you ever saw me."

He fell back a step, unsteadily.

*' To your cousin ? "

No  oh no. To Captain Grove."

There was a moment's interval. She
moved a little towards him, her face full
of the tenderest pity.

*'Oh, but I am so sorry! I never
thought of this. If I had only guessed ! "
Tears were in her eyes.

Don't ! " said Orlando. " I suppose it
can t be helped."

He broke off, and, turning away, leaned
on the wall. In this first shock, it seemed
to him as if he had got his death-wound.

For a little there was complete silence.
Then the strokes of the hour from a
church clock at the bottom of Albany
Street came floating up on the cool wind.
Both were warned that their time here
must be short, and that all was not yet
said.

Orlando turned. The change in his
face smote her with bitter self-reproach.

It was not merely pale ; a kind of haggardness,
a look of utter desolation and defeat,
had come upon It. But, through the
wretchedness, he managed to call up a
smile as he said 

Yoit will never have to suffer this, at
least. It was my own stupidity. I never
thought it possible that you could care
for any one else. It never came into my
mind."

Elizabeth understood now the ea-me
of cross-purposes in which she had blindly
taken part. It had been all her fault.
Why had she not insisted upon having
her engagement made known ?

'' I am afraid that I have been doing very
wrong," said she. '' Was it my behaviour
(but it must have been) that made you
think "

Orlando could not bear the ashamed and
sorrowful tone of self-accusation.

'' No, no ; It was my fault  my horrible

presumption. I never would have troubled
you, if I had only guessed. It was all my
own blindness."

*' No, not all." (How the light leaped
into his face !) " For I did, and I do, like
you very, very much. I feel honoured that
you should care for me. But I blame myself
 oh, I blame myself ! But, indeed, I
thought you understood that it was for
Gilbert's sake that I was so particularly
friendly towards you."

For Gilbert's sake ? "

Yes. Did you really never guess ? I
ought not, perhaps, to tell you his secret,
but now I must. I thought you knew he
cared for Millie."

"Millie!"

The shock was so great and so sudden,,
that, for a moment, he could say no more.

Then, "And Millie ? Does she know ?
Do you think she cares ? "

'' I don't know ; I can't tell."

Millie," repeated Orlando, slowly and
softly, looking before him at the sandy
stones of the floor. And in an instant had
risen up before him the happiness of Millie
and Gilbert, and his own long, lonely life.
He lifted his eyes and looked at Miss
Glendinning silently, taking a long, mute
farewell. Then, seeing the sadness of her
face, he added, in the same low voice, all
the more pathetic for being held in restraint,
" You mustn't be unhappy because
of me. I shall bear it somehow."

But it would have been better for you
if you had never seen me," said she, in a
voice full of pain.

No, no ; I shall never think so. If I
have suffered, it has been my own fault.
I hope you may be very happy."

'' Thank you," said Elizabeth. The
fruitless pain at her heart checked her
with a kind of sob. '' No one shall ever
know of this from me  no one."

Below them came a sound of steps and
voices.

'' They have come to look for us," said
Orlando.

They went down, and met Lady Ellen ,
and Miss Tenby at the foot of the tower. \.

They had been away from them not quite
ten minutes.

'' Could you see the view well ? " asked
Lady Ellen, cheerfully.

'' Yes ; it was very fine," Elizabeth answered.
" But I found it a little cold ; "
and she shivered.

*' Cold, mv dear, this warm afternoon !
You must have caught cold, Lizzie. You
have not looked well for the last day or
two, and now you are as pale as possible."

She looked at her niece with a keen-eyed
anxiety, that brought the red colour in a
flood to Elizabeth's cheeks.

"And now you are quite flushed. It
must be a feverish cold. Perhaps you

would rather go home. And we have
seen nearly all there is to see."

They turned towards the gates. As
they went they caught a glimpse of the
lake and its two swans. Orlando's mind
went back to the lake at Sellingham, and
to that day whose happiness showed now
with so bitter an irony. He walked on,
silent ; he would have been glad to speak,
but knew that his voice would betray him.

You look tired, Mr. Sherborne, too,"
said Lady Ellen. " You and Gilbert did
too much, yesterday. Gilbert forgets that
every one is not as inexhaustible as himself."


At another time Orlando would probably
have been eager to repudiate such a suggestion
; to-day he was glad to accept it.

And Miss Tenby added, "The heat of
those glass-houses was very tiring, you
know."

The short drive to Portland Place was

uncomfortable enough. Orlando and Elizabeth
sat side by side, conscious of their
own and each other s emotion, and of the
kindly anxious, but too keen eyes of Lady
Ellen.

Orlando declined to come in with them.
He took his farewell at the door  of the
other two, and then of Elizabeth. As
their hands met, their eyes met too. He
turned away, carrying with him the memory
of her sad face and deeply pitiful eyes.

CHAPTER XIV.

IN LOVE-LONGING.

The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year,'

JV. C. Bryant.

Orlando turned away, feeling half stunned.
He turned again up Portland Place. He
could not 2:0 home ; the restlessness of
heart could be appeased, if by anything,,
only by wandering. He crossed Euston
Road and went along the line of terraces
on the east border of Regent's Park.
He went in and out of their labyrinthine
windings, avoiding the main road when
he could. Even here, there were few
people, but the sight of any hurt him. The

terraces which stood more backward were
almost completely empty. There would bea
short line of houses, then a flight of steps
or a slope : in front, narrow strips of
garden ; behind, stables and carriage-yards.
He leaned upon balustrade wall, looking
doAvn into one of these gardens. Two
little osiris came out from among the
bushes ; they had been playing ball, and
the ball had flown into the thick undergrowth.
They flung it again ; their shrill
laughter came up to Orlando. He
turned away and wandered on. Among
these turnings he came at last to one
which differed from the rest  an open
gravelled space, houses standing round,
a sun-dial, a monastic stillness, a little,
quaintly built church. The door was
partly open, and from within sounded
the notes of an organ. The music
soothed like the touch of an anodyne.
He crept in. The church was small, old,

and dark. It looked like a minor chapel
of some great cathedral. There was a
mingled suggestion of the Westminster
chapter-house and Henry VII. 's chapel.
Its old, painted windows and dark, carved
work recalled a thought of Sherborne.
Rags of banners still hung about the walls ;
below were carved stalls, each with an
emblazoned shield above. No one was to
be seen. Orlando sat down in a corner,
leaned his face on his hands, and let his
spirit float upon the sounds. The vibration
of the loner oroan notes ran through
him as he sat. A soft, dreamy, summer-rivulet
of sound flowed and rippled from
wall to wall. Below throbbed a deeper
melody. Orlando felt it like a human
sympathy, sweet as the relief of tears. He
sat, tasting comfort among his grief, until
the last wave of sound throbbed upward,
rose in a shower of drops, and, sinking,
died into silence drop by drop. There

came a momentary break. The musician
checked his hand and changed his note.'
The slow beat of the ' Dead March in
Saul ' rose, lamenting. To Orlando, sensitive
as he was to music, this was as the
outcry of his own soul ; his own griefs
seemed the strings from which the melody
was stirred. Each note was a pain, distinct
as a physical thrill of touch.

Oh, if I could only die ! " he cried
within himself

And the march passed into a slow,
weeping pulsation, sad as the voices in a
battle-field by night. He longed to call
aloud for silence  to rise and go away.
Yet it seemed impossible to begone and
leave behind, that wailing, crying to the
empty walls. He sat motionless, making
no sign or sound. The march gave way
to a fugue of Bach's ; a flight and a pursuit
 a dragon-fiy passing to and fro
among the buzz of bees. But the quivering

nerves, stung by music to acuter
sensibility, were no longer to be soothed
by music. The sounds were now but an
outer trouble, which kept time to the
trouble within.

They ceased, and silence was a glad
relief. He sat, eased for the moment, in
the entire stillness. There came a jingling
of keys. The organist and a boy came
down. Orlando was startled back into
the world. He rose up, and passed out
into the daylight again. And now where
should he go? He did not know, and
scarcely thought. Mechanically, he turned
his steps southward. It was nearly two
hours since he had parted from Elizabeth,
at the door of her aunt's house. He passed
along, between the park and the houses.
The scanty number of people walking to
and fro had increased ; men and women
were coming from their day's work, and
lingered, drinking In the warm spring air.

The first beginning of twilight was
thickening the air ; the sky was faintly
reddened in the west with the promise of
a coming sunset ; on the faces of the white
houses the light lay bright and pink. At
first It rested, too, on Orlando's face, recalling
the colour of youth to its dark
paleness. But presently, as if feeling the
attempt but vain, it sank behind the trees
of the park, and Orlando walked on with
his face as little lightened as his heart.

He came down through the noisy crowds
of Regent Street, feeling himself as solitary
as a man In a foreign country, walking in
the midst of a foreign tongue. He reached
his lodmno and went In. A letter was
waiting for him  an invitation to a house at
which he would be sure to meet Elizabeth.
He wrote an answer, declining, on the
ground that he would be leaving London.
The Invitation had but caused him to put
Into words a resolution which it now appeared

to him that he must have framed
in the first moment. Yes, he must go  but
whither ? The thought of going home was
scarcely less bitter than that of staying
here.

For a moment, his mind turned towards
Cambridge, but it quickly shrank away.
No, he was known there. He could go
nowhere where he was known, where he
would have to meet familiar faces, and
answer torturing inquiries. There seemed
no place for him in the world.

A name floated up, a remembrance connected
with failure and sadness, a place of
disappointed hopes  Sherborne-by-the-Sea.
He lifted his face. Yes, he would go there.
Alone by the sea, in that blank place of
desolation, he would face his trouble.
Here, in this noisy world of unsympathetic
goers and comers, its weight was crushing
him to death. For Orlando was country
born, and in his sorrow his heart turned

VOL. I. T

to the fields. To a true Londoner, their
emptiness would have made his own pain
the larger. And then came his dinner,
accompanied by a message of apology for
its condition, half-way between hot and
cold, in consequence of having been kept
waiting. His landlady was a good deal
distressed, when it was sent down again,
because he had neither eaten it nor complained,
which was an illogical position.
Nor did he light his gas, but sat alone in
the dark, weighed down by such a misery
as he could never know again, because no
other pain would be the first. He had not
been conscious that he had held his grief
in restraint, hitherto ; but as he sat alone,
unseen in the stillness of his own room, he
knew that the flood-gates were now for the
first time fully opened.

And how long, how never-ending was
the night that followed, with its every
quarter of an hour beaten out remorselessly

from a neighbouring clock. For there is
no medicine so infallible in producing
wakefulness as a love trouble. At last,
however, a merciful slumber of complete
exhaustion, heavy and dreamless, fell upon
him.

It was well on into the hours of daylight
when he awoke. Lines of early sunlight
edged the darkened window; sparrows
were chirping outside, and the street was
still. His eyes opened calmly ; the peacefulness
of sleep lingered through the first
moments of awaking. Then came remembrance
 the sick pain at heart, the recurring
desire to get away, the longing by some
means to kill thought. And then came
upon him, mingled contradictorily with the
terror of meeting any familiar face, a very
hunger and thirst for human sympathy.
If I had but a mother ! " he thought.
But it may be doubted whether, if he
had had a mother, the thought of her pain

and disappointment would not have effectually
sealed his lips. For when, in our
thoughts, we frame a wish of this kind, the
imagined being whom we call up is made
in precise accordance with that moment's
need in ourselves, and the question of
responding emotions on the other side
does not present itself ; whereas, in real
life, one human being is not found to be
thus merely and expressly adapted to the
solace of another, and that which the child
would share with its imaginary twin brother
or sister, the orphan with its father or
mother, comes, in daily experience, to be
endured alone. Orlando's mind turned to
the woman with whom of late the idea of
motherhood had associated itself  Mrs.
Cash. For the first time his troubled soul
found something upon which it could rest.
He resolved, not to tell his troubles to Mrs.
Cash  no, indeed !  but to go and say goodbye

to her, since he was leaving London.
It would do him good only to see her and
hear her voice. She would forgive him,
he was sure, for coming at an unconventionally
early hour. With this resolve, he
felt some slight easing of pain. Besides
this, some slight preparation must be made
if he meant to go into Suffolk; he would
force his mind to occupy itself with these
trivial details. But, after all, should he go ?
Of what avail would it be to go ? And
he murmured a Horatian allusion to black
care.

The day was cruelly bright. He
looked gloomily at the blue sky as he ate
his breakfast. The servant, instructed to
observe his demeanour, reported that his
newspaper lay by him, unopened, and that
she was sure he had no idea what he was
eating. The landlady, out of a long experience
of gentlemen-lodgers, opined that

it was money troubles. A blue, legal-looking
letter, brought by the post a few
minutes later, confirmed this suspicion. It
could not, however, be added that Mr.
Sherborne showed either emotion on its
receipt or impatience to open it. It was,
in fact, a curt note from his uncle, asking
him to meet his Capton tenant that
morning at Mr. Pelham's chambers, and
discuss the renewal of a lease. Then he
could not go to Mrs. Cash's this morning,
nor to Sherborne-by-the-Sea to-day. But,
at least, here was something to be done.
He finished his breakfast with the better
appetite, and started off, steadfastly resolved
to betray no sign of emotion beneath
the keen eyes of his uncle. But
pallor and darkened eyes are traces not
so easy to be suppressed of a sleepless and
thought-tormented night. Mr. Pelham did
not fail to tell him that he looked ill, and

to suggest in a dry tone, most irritating,
but impossible to be resented, that he
miofht be the better for returning home.
Orlando would not make any answer
which could indicate that such an opinion
was gaining strength in his own mind, too.
He gave all his energies of thought and
attention to the business in hand. Mr.
Pelham, recasting his former estimate of
his nephew's character, began, with some
surprise, to entertain the pleasing thought
that he had inherited something of his
own clear insight and quick grasp of detail.
He smiled a wintry smile, recollecting that
Orlando was his heir. It certainly was
pleasant to think of his accumulations
passing to a man who showed promise of
using them with intelligence and without
meanness, '' though, indeed," as he phrased
it, even in his thoughts, " the terms are
interchangeable." He looked at Orlando

with more solicitude, and trusted that
he had not inherited, with other Pelham
peculiarities, his mother's delicacy of
health.

Orlando, when he left his uncle's, felt his
spirits a little raised, but the bustle and
roar of Fleet Street soon depressed them
to their former level. He thought again
of Mrs. Cash. Just now would be their
early dinner-time. He could not possibly
go now. Turning northward, he wandered
in the unknown squares and streets
of the dreary land between Holborn and
Euston Road. Surely, not abject poverty
itself is so depressing as the shabbiness of
a gradually decaying district. Orlando
came to the north end of Gower Street an
hour later, paler, darker-eyed, more hopeless
than ever. As he came in sight of
the house, the door opened, and a little
girl came running out. She carried a pile

of books In a strap. Her brown hair flew
behind her, and her Httle hands were bare.
Her face was that of Jura or Cecily, translated
back into childhood and freshened by
the roses of a country holiday. A smile
came into her face as she ran, and she
glanced up at Orlando, in passing, with the
bright, unabashed gaze that belongs only
to happy childhood. Her frank, childish
face, so clear, so full of life and health,
might have brought a smile to the lips of a
misanthrope. But to Orlando, it brought a
revulsion of soul. What place had he and
his sorrows in the home of this blithe
May-blossom ? Viola's glance  for Viola,
of course, it was  had called up again all
his former shrinking from human observation.
No, he could not face Mrs. Cash,
with her clear eyes like that child's. No,
he must go away. Nobody could help him ;
he must bear his ene alone. The first

impulse had been the truest ; let him get
away to Sherborne-by-the-Sea  it was the
fittest place. A fear came upon him of
meeting Duncannon. He turned quickly
away, resolving to get away from London
with as much speed as possible.

CHAPTER I.

AT SHERBORNE-BY-THE-SEA.

'What shall I do ? Ah, whither shall I go ?
My life has slipped into a sudden night
Where no moon is, nor stars."

M. O. C.

Sherborne-by-the-Sea lay in a nook of
land almost In the extreme south-eastern
corner of Suffolk. As might be supposed,
no railway ran to It. Ipswich, ten miles or
so distant, was the nearest station. At
the time when Sherborne was planned, it
was proposed that the line should keep
eastward to Woodbrldge and Framllngham,
and the founder of Sherborne looked for

VOL. 11. B

much of Its prosperity from the increased
activity of the district. But, after much discussion
and delay, the plan was changed ;
the line took a more inland course, running
to Newmarket, instead, and the coast-lands
shared in the general depression of the
abandoned neighbourhood. The trains
in the days of Orlando's journey ran more
slowly than they now do. It was about six
o'clock when he reached Ipswich. Its clean,
quiet streets  quiet to a London eye ; the
inhabitants consider them busy  were
lighted up with the full brightness of the
May sunshine.

'' How far is it," he asked of a man at
the station, " to Sherborne-by-the-Sea ? "

The man turned upon him a glance in
which Orlando read wonder that any one
should inquire for the place.

Maybe eight miles, mayhap it maybe
nine," he answered. His words had
the peculiarity, rather of intonation and

emphasis, than of actual pronunciation
which marks the Suffolk speaker.

Is there a road ? "

Yes ; there's a road to Walton, and
there you turn off to the right, and you'll
find it."

'ris there anywhere to sleep ? "

The man looked doubtful, and cautiously
replied that there might be.

To this chance Orlando trusted himself
He passed through a small part of the
town, which was old and quaintly planned.
The streets were narrow and winding, the
bright red pavements narrower still, admitting
but one passenger abreast. Many
of the houses were old, with projecting
upper storeys. Among them would break
out, here and there, a new, white-faced
dwelling of the most obtrusively modern
appearance. Orlando walked between
them, observing nothing of what he passed.
When he came to the open country, he

felt already a slight relief. Lifting his
head, and drawing a deep breath, he looked
about him, thinking of the days in which
his grandfather had come this way, full
of hopes and schemes.

The road proved a good one. It was
esteemed, in that part of the country, hilly,
and passed over a succession of upland
heaths. The soil was a fine, burnt-sienna
coloured sand, so light and dry as to give
support to the tale, current in those parts,
of a man who, having sown oats before a
wind, reaped his crop, indeed, from the
same earth in which he had sown, but
on the other side of the hedge. The
horses were of the same colour as the
ground, and looked as if they might have
grown out of It. From the road, he
looked southward upon the widening
Orwell, with the sun shining down it from
the west. In many places its banks were
thickly wooded, and houses and gardens

were scattered along its course. As he
advanced, following a lengthening shadow,
he felt the fresh, salt air of the sea. To
his left, lay, now, the wide estuary of the
Orwell. Through the first haze of twilight
he caught a glimpse of a town across the
waters  Harwich.

The possible nine miles drew out, eventually,
to a well-measured ten. Orlando
began to feel his mental pain a little
stupefied by physical fatigue, and was as
thankful to be tired as a weary man forrest.
It was dark when he came to Sher-borne.
He saw, indistinctly, many scattered
houses  few of them lighted  a Ions: flat
of sand, and a dark, orlisteninQf water. He
had a strange feeling of haviuQ been here
before in the character of his grandfather ;
he almost seemed to himself like a wandering
ghost, to whom all this should be
familiar. Meeting a woman with a basket
on her arm, he asked her what was the

nearest Inn at which he could sleep. She
answered, after surveying him critically,
that she kept a 'public' herself, about
a mile up the road, and that he could have
a room if he liked. He accordingly turned
back with her, and retraced his steps
along the darkening road. The 'public'
proved to be extremely small, but, like
most of the dwellings which he had noticed,
extremely clean. Its character recalled
a Dutch interior, and the slow movements,
heavy build, and fresh complexions of its
inhabitants were in keeping with the illusion.
Orlando, with his pale, dark face,
long", slender limbs, and indefinable air of
fine race, made a most incongruous element.
Fatigue and fresh air had brought on
a delicious drowsiness, through which the
first sharpness of his pain seemed as
distant as London.

But with the morning light  and very
early that light dawned-his sorrow came

back to him in all its oriorlnal bitterness.
The now familiar, double pain, of loneliness,
and of shrinking from companionship,
returned. The blue air, the voice of the
birds, mocked him with their indifference.
He got up, found his hostess already busy
in the kitchen, and obtained his breakfast
at an earlier hour than he had ever partaken
of that meal before. Then he set
forth for Sherborne. The sea shone bright
before him, under the rising sun ; the sandy
earth was brilliant In the morning glow,
and the shadow which he had followed
yesterday, now followed him,

Orlando had fancied, the day before,
in his wanderings between Holborn and
Euston Road, that no district of human
habitations could be drearier. But to-day,
in Sherborne-by-the-Sea, he found a yet
more rooted desolation. The town lay ina
bay, slightly curved like the crescent of a
nearly new moon. To the north and to the

west, the ground made a slight ascent, and
on the east front, sloped gradually and at
length, towards the sea. The plan had
been devised on a liberal scale, and after
the fashion of twenty years before. On the
north side of the bay was a wooden breakwater,
built solidly after the style of those
which may be seen frequently at Brighton,
but on this eastern coast are rare. The
sea Is here everywhere encroaching, but
the defences are of a poor and make shift
sort, looking rather like the productions of
boys at play than like serious engineering.
At the edge of the town nearest to the sea
ran a walk, which had been a little raised ;
grass and weeds grew on It, and it came to
an abrupt termination. The houses here
had been designed for shops. Some few
a baker's, two general dealers', and a
chemist's  were open ; the others were
mostly Incomplete, and there were many
gaps In the line. Behind lay a wilderness

of failure : squares which had been no
further planned than by the marking of a
peg at each corner ; crescents where the
houses, few and far apart, left unsightly
gaps like those of missing teeth ; streets
that led nowhere, and in which the pavement
came to a sudden end. Not more
than one house in four was finished. In
some, the roofs were wanting, and the joists
of the floor, seen through the openings of
the doors and windows, were blackened
and greenish with time and damp. The
party walls, also, were green, and stained
with wet. Birds had built in the put-loopholes,
and between the angles of the
rafters. The building was mostly of cemented
brick. The finished houses had
pretentious columns on each side of their
doors, and broad steps leading up to them ;
but the cement was falling away, in flakes,
from the pillars, so that the brick core
showed through, and grass was growing in

the Interstices of the steps. The few that
were inhabited held tenants of a far lower
class than those for whom they had been
originally designed. Between two dwellings,
which any agent would have advertised
as ' desirable mansions grew a patch
of cabbages. In many places, foundations
had been dug out, upon which nothing had
been founded. They remained as pits,
overgrown with long, straggling grass.
Broken bricks and slates, piles of mortar
hard as rock, battered kettles, and old boots,
lay among the weeds. Here was a tub, imbedded
almost to Its mouth, and retaining
still a little pool of greenish, ill-smelling
water, thickened whitely from Its substratum
of mortar. There were strange uneven-messes
In the ground, formed no doubt by
the tracks for barrows, or by hardened
mortar which had become incorporated into
the soil.

At the north corner lay a little church,

old and built of stone. It was poor,
and many of its windows were blocked
up. Its churchyard surrounded it; and
Orlando, as he looked into it, could not
but think how much more thickly peopled
it was than the town. He wandered
over every nook and corner, and at
last turned away from it all, and came
down, feeling sick at heart, to the sea.
The brilliancy of the early morning had
changed to a warm, dull greyness. Lights
and shadows melted into a dim uniformity
of tint. The sea lay tranquil under a sky
that was neither clear nor cloudy. Two
boats were drawn up on the sandy beach,
another was visible far out on the bay.
An old man was lounging on the shore
with a pipe in his mouth ; and a little
higher up, a young woman, of an oddly
sailor-like appearance, was spreading clothes
to dry in the sun. Orlando stood, for a
little while, looking out to sea ; an overwhelming

weight of hopelessness lay upon
him. At some stage or other of our progress
through the world, we come to realize
for the first time, our own bitter inability to
affect Its course. The wishes that are life
of our life are powerless as winds upon a
rock. The world goes on its way, indifferent,
as we to our neighbours dreams.
This terrible sense of the deaf procession
of fate had come to Orlando. Here was
the desolate wreck of his grandfather's
ambition. His own had led him to no
better end. Life seemed to him like the
leaf on a tree, which falls at the will of the
wind, and is forgotten. He laid himself
down on the sand under the breakwater,
and wished that his life might come to an

end.

He remembered how, eight months ago,
he had lain under the trees at Wllllngs-
hurst, amid meditations of how different a
sort.

That day  oh that day ! " he murmured
to himself, repeating Elizabeth's words.

Then, with all the acute self-torture which
only memory can inflict, he recalled every
time of their meeting, all her looks and
words, all his own vain, wasted hopes.
Hour after hour he lay; the grey skies
grew to a leaden, noonday heat ; the heat
sank slowly to a pale afternoon ; the
afternoon thickened towards a misty
evening. Still no relief came to him.
Once in the day he sat up, bent his arms
and face against his knees, and tried to
pray. But the hard laws of the universe
seemed to stand before him like a blank
wall. He dropped himself back upon the
sand, and lay motionless as before. The
evening drew on, and the mists thickened.
Through the mist came the recurring
wash of the slow waves, breaking on
the long, low shore. Orlando had slipped
unawares into sleep, and started, suddenly

awake. Leaning his hand upon the ground,
he raised himself, and looked about. Inland,
the clouds had broken a little. A
blurred glare of red showed the sinking
sun, and an ever fainter line of mist spread
from it, northward, over the grey haze of
the sea. The stillness that belongs to
sunset had full dominion. The town lay
indistinct, an uneven line of blackness
against the sky. Orlando turned his face
from It to the redder light of the sun, sinking
quicker and quicker to Its disappearance,
and spreading, at each incalculably
fine division of Its descent, a wider glow.
Suddenly, recalled by who knows what link
of sunset recollection, the Idea of his father
rose up distinct before his mind, and with
It the thought of his father's sfrlef if he were
dead. How selfish, petty, and unworthy
did he seem to himself! To be sitting
here  here, on the waste shore which had
made the burden of his fathers life 

wrapped up In his own small solitude of
pain, forgetful of all the love and duty, the
simple, straightforward path of life which
he had seen so clearly before him ! His
heart melted within him. He put his hands
before his face, and in the darkness called
up the image of his home. Oh, he would
go back. His home wanted him ; his place
was empty. He could never know again
the pleasure of a strong wish to be fulfilled
for himself, but there was still left the
power of fulfilling those which others had
founded upon him.

They shall never know," he murmured
to himself.

The murmur was a partial expression
of the deep, inner resolve that his sorrow
should in no way make him fail towards
others. Drawing a deep breath, he uncovered
his face, and looked about him.
The sun was gone. A thin darkness confused
the edges of sea and land. At the

northern end of the town twinkled a single
light. He rose, sighing, and went up the
beach.

On the parade, so-called, he paused,
a little doubtful how to find the Ipswich
road. For he was resolved to go back tonight
to Ipswich, and tomorrow, as early
as might be, to go home. He saw the
figure of a tall woman, coming slowly along
the parade. She was dressed In black, and
seemed to be elderly. Of her he asked
his way.

She gave him the direction, speaking in
an accent unfamiliar to him, but certainly
not that of Suffolk.

Thank you. And shall I pass anywhere
where I can get something to eat ? "

"Yell see the Sherborne Arms  a very
quiet house, and kept by decent folk."

He thanked her again, and went on
his way. The Sherborne Arms ! How
strange a thrill the name sent through

him ! The thought followed, quick as a
lightning flash, that now there never would
be a son of his to inherit the name or the
arms. And there again lay another grief for
his father. All the more must he go home
and make his father's happiness his one
aim, henceforth.

The Sherborne Arms was an old house
which had been turned into an inn, and
received its present name in the first flush
of hope that had illumined Batteringbury
Bay rather more than five and twenty
years before.

Going in, he asked whether he could
have some cold meat.

No cold meat ; they could cook a chop.

He had not time to wait for that.
Perhaps they could give him some bread
and cheese }

Yes ; that they could.

He was shown into a little parlour.
The first thing which met his eyes was

VOL. II. c

an engraving, hung above the fireplace,
of the familiar portrait of his grandfather.

'you are looking at that portrait, sir,"
said the innkeeper, who had ushered him
in. " Ah, a very unfortunate gentleman
he was, sir  most unfortunate indeed.
That was Mr. Sherborne, sir, that the
place is named after."

Orlando leaned his elbows on the
mantelshelf, and gazed at the engraving.
The worn look on his face brought out
a likeness which might have struck the
dullest. But the landlord, although the
original of the portrait had been well
known to him, failed to perceive it. His
notion of Mr. Sherborne was so indissolubly
connected with a high, white neckcloth,
that the dark tie and ' improved
Milton' collar of Orlando formed an altogether
insuperable barrier to recognition.
Bread, cheese, and beer were brought,
and Orlando fell upon them with a hunger

that spoke well for the tonic qualities of
Sherborne air.

Then, much refreshed, but still looking
forward with satisfaction to the idea of
a meat supper at Ipswich, he set out.
But the ten minutes which he had spent
in the inn had furnished its occupants with
a topic of conversation for the next three
days, so rare was the advent of a stranger
in Sherborne-by-the-Sea, and so sure were
the women of the house that some romantic
tale lay at the root of his paleness and
his melancholy looks.

He did his return ten miles at a crowd

o

pace, rejoicing in the hope that he might
tire himself out, and win a night of sleep.
But sleep will no more be controlled by
human wishes than any other of the
world's powers, and his walk brought no
other gain than the reflection that it had
abridged the night by an hour or two.

CHAPTER II.

AT SHERBORNE-ON-LAND.

My constant thought makes manifest
I have not what I love the best,
But I must thank God for the rest."

Jea7i Angelo.

Orlando went back to London by the
earliest train next day, and there despatching
all necessary preparations with
a headlong speed, which was quite uncalled
for, but in which he found a kind of satisfaction,
he betook himself to another station,
and departed for Sherborne-on-Land,
where, in consequence of this hot haste,
he arrived soon after twelve o'clock. All
this time he had had a feeling that he was
flying from his pain. But now, when he

got out of the train at Sherborne, it came
quietly to his side again, inevitable as his
shadow in the sunshine. He looked
round. The well-known place had become
strange. He seemed to see it to-day for
the first time. With what different eyes
had he looked upon all this, the last time
that he had stood here !

He left his portmanteau, saying that
it should be sent for, and walked away
briskly. He felt as if what he had undergone
must be written on his face, for everyone's
reading. He had summoned up a
smile, and forced an easy tone in speaking
to these men who knew him and his
affairs, and he walked away with a quick
step. But his sore heart represented them
as looking after him, nevertheless, with a
grin of comprehension. Once out of sight,
the quick step lagged, the smile fell
suddenly off, and the erect bearing
drooped. He turned off from the road

and went home by a byway through the
fields. As he walked, the words of the
prodigal son went with him; repeating
themselves and floating on the surface of
his mind. He went into the house from
the back, stepping over the wall of the
kitchen garden, and passing under the
arch of the old priory.

A noonday stillness had possession of
the house. No one was to be seen. From
some kitchen, near at hand, he heard the
voices of two of the servants; as he passed,
one laughed, and then silence came again.
The whole place seemed desolate, empty.
He looked into the morning room. The
long Venetian blinds were drawn down.
The room was full of a thin twilight  a
veiled sunless. He advanced to the
library ; his father would be there.
Opening the door gently, he had before
him the scene which he knew so well 
the back-round of books ; In the foreground

'well, father," said Orlando.

He had meant to speak bravely, but
there was a worn and weary note in his
voice.

The father stood up, hastily, half alarmed.

'' Orlando ! ]\Iy dear boy, is anything
the matter ? "

No, father ; only I thought I might as
well come home."

He laid his hat, wearily, on the table.
They sat down, side by side. Mr. Sher-borne,
now that they were at close
quarters, could distinguish how pale and
hopeless Orlando's face was looking. It
even seemed as if he had orown thinner
in these few weeks. His father said
nothing, but he laid his hand upon one
of his son's. Orlando looked up. He

had not meant to relate his grief, but,
meeting his father's mild, anxious gaze,
he felt that some explanation would have
to be made.

'' Something has happened to you, Orlando."


'' Yes ; I'll tell you all about it in a
minute."

'ris it"  he hardly knew how to put his
question  " anything about money ? "

No," Orlando answered, languidly.
He began to understand what kind of
fears were in his father's mind, and added,
hastily, " Oh no." Lifting his face, he
said, 'miss Glendinning "

It was enough. In the breast of Mr.
Sherborne, that gentlest of men, who dwelt
in charity with all his neighbours, rose
a sudden flame of indignation against the
crirl who had done this to Orlando. He
could say nothing  not a word ; but the
pressure of his hand was eloquent.

'' I did not mean to tell you  not now,
at any rate ; but I could not go on, and
you not knowing. It is not //r fault."

The tone with which his voice dwelt
upon the words went to his father s heart
like a stab.

But are you so sure ? " he said, hesitatingly,
after a moment. '' You have seen
each other so little. Might not she change
her mind ? "

"She was enoaeed to another man 
engaged before I ever saw her. Don't
ask me about it. I can't speak of it. It's
all over."

The father could find no consoling words
of answer. His other hand came to join
itself to the first, his son's between them.
Orlando's eyes followed, listlessly. His
father's hand lay uppermost, worn, wrinkled,
with delicately moulded fingers, and with
every bone and vein showing its course
distinctly through the skin. Its touch was

chill. Orlando's own, so like it In Its
shape, was warm and firm, the outside
sunburnt, the palm hardened by rowing.
The contrast, as he looked down, stirred
a sudden wave of mingled tenderness and
shame. Had he not resolved that his
father's comfort should be the first thing
with him, henceforth ?

'' Well," he said, drawing a long breath,
It is no use to say any more about it. I
am not going to give way to despair.
I mean to stay here and try to do some
good in the place where I belong."

He spoke almost cheerfully, but a sigh
caught him before he was aware, and betrayed
the undercurrent which had brought
it. He turned his course into shallower
waters.

Where's Millie ? " he asked, lightly.
But with Millie's name came the remembrance
where and how he had spoken of
her last.

She Is spending the day at Ayhng
Court. They have a croquet-party and
an early dance. It is Miss AyHng's birthday."


'' How is Mile ? Any brighter ? "

'' I hardly know. She seems so changeable.
I don't quite understand Millie,
Orlando."

I must try and cheer her up," said
Orlando, smiling a little sadly, as he
thought of the price at which he had
bought the knowledge which was to comfort
Millie.

A few days later, the brother and sister
were together in the garden. Orlando
was smoking, Millie walking leisurely by
him. He had been watching, all these
days, for an opportunity of introducing
Gilbert's name. The present moment
seemed surely most suitable, but he
smoked on, meditatively, without finding
an appropriate form of opening. While

he Still meditated, Millie began, as one to
whom a chance remembrance occurs.

Oh, Orlando, now that you have seen
a good deal of Elizabeth and her cousin,
what do you think about them ? "

Why, a great many things."

Don't be so foolish. Do you think, if
you will have it so very plainly, that they
are In love with one another?"

No ; I am sure that they are not."

'' No ? What makes you say so ? "

'' I know, as a fact, that she is engaged
to another man."

Oh who ? "

I don't know, perhaps, that I ought to
say anything about it yet. Nobody you
know."

'' Tell me this : is he good enough for
her ? "

I don't know."

But you are sure It Is true ? '

Oh yes," said Orlando

The cigar between his lips might perhaps
account for his laconic answers.
Now, however, he threw it away, and
moving a step forward, paused, so that
they stood face to face.

"And now, Millie, why Is this question
of so much interest to you ? "

She looked down, blushing, with a
wavering smile stirring the corners of her
mouth. He took her reluctant hand, and
earnest, yet not without a smile on his
face too, persisted.

"Why, Millie?"

She caught away her hand, and looking
him defiantly in the face, asked, " What
has that to do with you ?" The words
came a little tremulously, and sounded as
if they rather tried to be angry than were.

"Then It's true ; you do care about him,"
said Orlando, slowly.

Millie looked up, for a moment, as if she
were about to make an angry defence.

But finding In Orlando's face nothing
which demanded opposition, she changed
her mind. The sympathetic Inquiry of his
eyes stirred an Impulse of confidence.
Sighing out, " Oh, Orlando ! " she made a
step towards him, and hid her face, sobbing,
against her brother's shoulder.

'poor old Millie!" said Orlando,
drawing his arm round her very tenderly,
and trying hard to conceal the profound
astonishment with which, in spite of his
own love experiences, It filled him to see
his sister weeping In this way for the sake
of Gilbert Oakes.

It's nothing. I'm silly, I know ; but I
can't help It."

But, you know," said Orlando, when
her tears were abating a little, '' I don't
really see that you have much cause to
cry.

"What do you mean?" asked Millie,
with a gasp.

Orlando found it not quite easy to give
an answer which should satisfy both his
sister and his own conscience. For, certainly,
it was not for him to tell Gilbert's
story, even if he had had it on Gilbert's
own authority. And as to telling Millie
the manner in which he became possessed
of it, that was still more impossible. He
said, therefore, rather lamely 

'why, you see, I haven't any right
to tell Oakes's secrets, have I ? "

'did he say anything to you ? " she
asked, again looking up with a blush, that
rose to her temples and gave a quite new
radiance to her fair face.

No, Millie ; oh no. Is it likely ? "

They were walking on again now, Orlando's
arm still round Millie's shoulders.

But I thought  I mean, I fancied 
what should make him so awfully friendly
to me, if it wasn't for somebody else's
sake ? "

It must be acknowledged that Orlando
was lamentably incapable of managing
even an innocent deception. Millie was
perfectly certain that he had further
grounds, and perhaps was almost as much
encouraged as if she had known them in
detail.

He certainly was awfully friendly."

And you got on well together ? "

Regularly chummed."

Millie sofdy smiled.

I have been thinking," pursued
Orlando, "that we might ask him down.
From something he once said, I believe
he would be glad enough to come. I did
not think of it at the time, but when the
idea had been put into my head  I mean
afterwards  I saw how it was."

"And who," asked Millie, quickly, "put
it into your head ? " For she still suspected
that Gilbert had at least dropped a hint.

"Oh, could I not originate such an
idea ? "

'' No," she returned, rather sharply.
"You would never dream of anybody
falling in love with me, because you would
not do it yourself."

Orlando was totally unable to parry
this thrust, and she proceeded.

It must have been Elizabeth who
thought so."

He made no answer.

Well, Orlando ? "

I don't admit that anybody thought so,
except me. But I do think so. And if
it is so, why, I can only say, I am very
glad of it."

He looked down towards her, smiling.

And so am I," said Millie, almost
under her breath.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER III.

CONGRATULATORY AND OTHERWISE.

Will the love that you're so rich in
Make a fire in the kitchen ?
Or the little god of love turn the spit, spit, spit ? "

Miss Glendinning was sitting with Captain
Grove, in her own drawing-room, on
the afternoon on which Orlando journeyed
to Ipswich. She was a Httle paler than
usual, and a little more grave.

Edward," said she, " I want you to do
something for me. I have never asked
you to alter your plans in any way before,
but now I must."

Captain Grove kept the same attentive
smile on his face, and even threw a little
eager inquiry into his eyes. But within

himself he thought, '' Now she Is beginning.
She is just Hke all other women,
after all."

'' I must have our engagement known,
Edward, please. I have undergone I
can't tell you how much self-reproach about
it." A rose-leaf pink crept into her cheeks,
and the eyes that looked up to him were
wet.

"What! for Lawrence O'Brien's sake?
I think that was rather superfluous."

*' Do you ? " said Elizabeth.

You must not take his words to mean
much. Words come so easily to an Irishman."


Elizabeth was silent, and he, though he
so much desired a clear reply, dared not
ask for it. If she had distinctly refused
Lawrence, he would willingly declare their
engagement to all the world. But he must
know how the case stood. She, on her
side, was quite resolved to keep the promise-which

she had voluntarily made to Orlando
of preserving his secret.

'' Come, Lizzie, is that it ? "

Yes, partly. And, besides, I hate the

falseness of the position. I am pretending

to be something that I am not. It

\iegradcs me in my own eyes  it does,

indeed."

'' What ! to be engaged to me ? "

No, no ! " Her tone was a sweet
apology. '' You did not think I meant
that. But, indeed, Edward, I do insist."

*' You needn't have done that." And,
as her eyes asked for explanation, " You
might have left me the pleasure of
yielding."

Elizabeth drew a long breath of relief,
and as his smile sought one in answer,
faintly smiled.

But you mast give me two days to
bring my uncle up. If I don't hear by
that time, I'll go down to him. Don't

you suppose that I am a little impatient,
too ? I don't believe it ever
occurred to you that it was more painful
to me than to you to have a lot of men
always hanging about you, and watching
you, and discussing the probability of your
marrying this, that, and the other man."

A warm red flushed her cheeks for a
moment. Of course she knew, in theory,
that men did, from time to time, discuss
such possibilities in regard to herself; but
to have the knowledge thus directly set
before her brought a most displeasing
shock. But after the first instant of recoil,
her mind turned to the new view of her
lover's position. They were seldom long
together without the arousing in her mind
of something like self-reproach. Her
attitude towards him was one of continual
mental apology. A constant, inward shame
which she hardly recognized, but none the
less distinctly felt, warned her perpetually

that she brought less affection to her share
of the contract than he to his. And now
again she told herself that she had been
seeing, as usual, only such hardships as
touched herself, forgetful that their position
held annoyances for him too.

'' Do you know," she said, repentantly,
I never thought of that. I don't know
how it is  I am afraid I must be naturally
very cold-hearted  I can't at all get used
to the idea of your caring so much for me.
I haven't really made you uncomfortable
by anything that I have done, have I ? "

You delicious innocence, no. If I ever
feel an insane jealousy for a moment, I know
that in very fact I have you all to myself,
and I am delighted to think how little use
it is for the others all to flutter about you."

The subtle Interweaving of truth and
falsehood, and unconscious falsehood, in
this speech would have been difficult to
unravel even by a far more experienced

and suspicious listener. Elizabeth accepted,
though she could not understand all of It ;
but she resented a little the appellation of
delicious Innocence.' Indeed, the young
woman has yet to be discovered who does
altogether relish the application to herself
as a general epithet of the term ' Innocent.'
Not that she desired to be thought
noxious, but that the common notion of
Innocence is so closely associated with that
of Ignorance that the first adjective has
come to be little better than a polite
synonym for the second.

Elizabeth let a moment pass In silence,
and then looking up, with a brighter face
than she had yet shown. Issued a mild
command that he should stay to dinner,
since she and her father were alone ; for
it need hardly be said that the engagement
had not continued all these months
unknown to and unsanctioned by Major
Glendlnnlng. Captain Grove yielded a

smiling obedience. For though, perhaps,
he derived the most acute gratification from
his engagement at the times when he saw
Elizabeth surrounded by men who admired
her, and would have envied him, he had
by no means exhausted the charm of her
private submissiveness, and found himself
much more earnestly in love with her, now,
than when he had first won her consent.
This result seemed to him both very
remarkable and very praiseworthy ; he
began to think, with Richard, that he must
have been mistaken all this time ; and that
the virtue of constancy had only lain
dormant in his nature till the right woman
should appear to call it forth.

On leaving Burlington Street, that
evening, he sought out Lawrence O'Brien,
whom he found entertaining a particularly
hilarious party of friends, the greater
number being military and Irish. To these
Captain Grove was a welcome addition, as,

indeed, he was in almost all companies.
Not until the last guest had departed did
he show any trace of seriousness. Then,
careful observation having convinced him
that O'Brien, though not completely sober,
was still in a condition to comprehend his
disclosure, and, perhaps, to receive it
more kindly than in a less excited moment,
he began.

You remember meeting me, one day,
last autumn in Piccadilly, just before you
went to Sydenham's ? "

Lawrence, after a moment's consideration,
remembered it very well, and evinced his
recollection by throwing himself back in
an armchair and drawing a melodramatically
deep sigh.

Captain Grove, from the edge of the
table on which he was sitting, looked down
with perfect external gravity, and continued.
'* Now, of course, I have never uttered a
syllable to anybody of what you said tome
that day."

The gravity deepened on his face as he
spoke. The necessity of the words, now
that it had come upon him, was hateful, and
he hated O'Brien for being its cause.

Lawrence murmured indistinct gratefulness.


But now I must tell you something In
my turn."

O'Brien nodded several times, and
Captain Grove dropped a keen glance
upon him, a little doubtful, after all, whether
his condition was suitable for the reception
of a rather delicate communication.

'' The fact is, then," said he, " that you
could not have chosen a better confidant
as far as you were concerned, nor a worse
one so far as I was."

*' How d'ye mean ? " asked Lawrence.

*' I mean this. I intended then, and had
done for months, to marry Miss Glen-dining,
if she would have me."

What ? " cried Lawrence, sitting suddenly

upright, and exchanging a rather
vacant smile for a look of perfectly sober
indignation.

Now, don't be hasty ; hear me out. I
say that was my intention. But do you
think, knowing what I did, that I could go
and forestall you ? How could I have
looked either you or her in the face, if I
had ? "

And, as he said this, Captain Grove
really felt a certain degree of emotion,
which was quite pleasant to himself, and
which was not at all affected by its complete
fictitiousness. For to him another
man's thought of him was all the same as
truth, and, the first plunge over, the dis-usefulness
of the falsehood began to be
overpowered by the pleasure of seeing it
succeed.

Lawrence looked at him with an angry
eagerness still brightening his very blue
eyes.

Look here, Lawrence ; I have waited
now ever since September, to give you
your chance. Of course I know you are a
better match than I am  younger and better
off, and all the rest of It  but I give you
warning ; I can't wait any longer. No,
hang It, I can't."

And rising from the table, he took a
stride or two about the room, keeping a
manly restraint upon the emotion which his
words had Indicated, and which for the
time was partly real to him, as an actor's
might be.

Lawrence sprang up.

*' You did, Grove ! You are a good
fellow  upon my soul, you are. But it's
all up with me, old man ; she won't have
anything to say to me. Well, if It's you,
I don't care so much. I thought it was
that confounded cousin."

And he shook hands most energetically
with his successful rival, whom only the

instinct of self-preservation could restrain
from an outburst of laughter. Shame and
relieved pleasure had given place to a real
exhilaration of triumph. He did, however,
exercise so much self-control as to defer
that manifestation until he was at home in
his lodging. Arrived there, he laughed
quietly many times, and then sat down to
write to the uncle whom he had used so
often as a stalking-horse in his dealings
with Elizabeth. And having completed
a simple-seeming letter of excessive craftiness,
he betook himself to bed, towards
two o'clock, with a pleasing consciousness
of having well employed his day.

Three days later, Elizabeth got a note,
telling her that Sir Edward Grove had
come to London, and that his nephew
would bring him to Burlington Street
that afternoon. The visit was duly made,
and Miss Glendinning's appearance and
manner were not without their effect upon

her lover's wealthiest relation. An amiable
idiosyncrasy of temper, however, restrained
him from showing any cordiality which
might gratify his watchful nephew, and
Captain Grove, to whom Elizabeth's charm
lay as much in other people's estimation of
her as In his own, thought that she had
seldom been so unattractive. He took
his leave with considerable gloom, anticipating
no very pleasant Interview. For Sir
Edward Grove, having a sufficient Income
to allow himself that luxury, was as persistently
stinging in his speech as his
nephew was compliant.

They walked home in silence, or rather
In the mere Interchange of trivial remarks
upon passing persons and things seen.
Captain Grove would not ask his uncle's
opinion, point-blank. His uncle, on his
side, delighted to keep him In suspense.
The nephew was also quite aware of the
beneficial influence exerted by a good

dinner upon the temper of an elderly gentleman.
But at last, when the good dinner
had been partaken of, apparently with great
approval, and yet no word came of Elizabeth,
he could restrain his impatience no'
longer, and asked, in the easiest tone
which he could assume, " And what was
your opinion of Miss Glendinning ? "

'' I think Miss Glendinning a very
charming young woman," Sir Edward
answered.

His nephew hardly knew whether to
augur well from so unexpectedly pleasing
a reply, or whether rather to expect the
more decisive a blow to his hopes, when
they should have been raised by such a
prelude.

An oSje deluge'' he went on, " in which
a rich man could not do better than invest.
A woman of that kind would be a most
suitable wife for a man in my position, if I
were fool enough to marry."

'' But not for a man In mine ? " said the
nephew with a smile, which was not exactly
of enjoyment.

'' The question in all such cases Is, what
has she ? Jack Glendlnnlng never had
a penny, and I always understood that
Lady Elizabeth's fortune was chiefly in
her face. She took It to a bad enough
market. I can't think how a woman with
a natural monopoly like beauty can be such
a fool as to waste her chance. If I had
been In Lady Elizabeth's place, I would
not have stopped short of an earldom, I
know that. But her father was an inconsiderate
sort of man, and these imprudences
run in families. I have often observed It.
And nothing Is so certain to bring a family
down to nothing at all."

This was pleasant for Captain Grove,
but he carried his smile bravely.

'' Don't you think," he asked, " that a
wife like Miss Glendlnnlng might be a
help to a man in his career ? "

Yes, if he had one. For a rising
member, now, if he had something of his
own, it might not be so unwise. But, you
know, you can't set a diamond in brass : a
woman of that kind requires an establishment
to correspond, and if she has not the
means herself, she ought to look for it in a
husband."

'' But, surely, if she is satisfied "

Captain Grove began.

'' My dear boy, that merely shows she is
a fool. It is the family weakness coming
out. To my mind it is an indication
that she will never be much help as a
wife. There are cases, of course, in which
a seemingly imprudent match is really a
good speculation  when there is marked
talent, for instance, which is sure to rise.
A woman who does that shows brains.
But that is not your case, you know, Ned."

Well, uncle, it is done now. I am
sorry you don't think better of it."

VOL. II. E

'' No, Ned, on the contrary ; it is not
done. I can assure you I would not waste
words on you, if it were. The truth is, and
there is no use in disguising it, that you
have just fallen in love with a pretty face,
like any schoolboy ; and there is not sense
enough between the pair of you to sacrifice
your fancy to your advantage."

This description of his conduct was as
unpleasant to Captain Grove as it was to
Elizabeth to be called deliciously innocent.
He longed that the subject might be
dropped, but at the same time he knew
that to hint such a wish would be to keep
his uncle lecturing all the evening upon
imprudent marriages.

But you have not told me what she
has. Is it altogether nothing ? Of course
her father's pay dies with him ; and there
is no doubt he spends it all, and probably
more. There's no man in London wears
better coats and hats, or more of them."

She has a house in Portland Place,
next to Lady Ellen's  the Tenbys live
in it  and something of her mother's
besides."

'' Enough to pay her dressmaker. ind
as to you, you'll have only your salary,
which is nothing  absolutely nothing. Of
course it is a very gratifying thing to be
accepted by a pretty girl like that, but I
call it taking a confounded advantage of
her ignorance to marry her. If she had a
mother she would not be allowed to do it."

She has got plenty of aunts."

Yes, and see what they say when they
hear it. I have a great mind to go and
talk it over with Lady Ellen myself, if it
weren't that she is so abominably deaf. She
never hears a word that she doesn't want
to hear, and the sharpness has all gone out
of her ears into her tongue. Upon my
word, Ned, you are a bold man to think of
marrying her niece. Honestly, did you .\%

ever reflect that you would be nephew-inlaw
to Lady Ellen Darling ? "

Captain Grove had it upon his tongue
to answer that a long course of avuncular
criticism had hardened him to a point at
which such terrors ceased to wound. He
abstained, however, partly from prudence,
partly because he would not please his uncle
by a counter-blow which should acknowledge
the smart of his. He made, therefore, no
reply, and Sir Edward rose smilingly and
announced that he was going to the opera.
Captain Grove was left more dissatisfied
with his own wisdom than he had ever
found himself before, and avenged his uneasiness
on Its involuntary cause by neither
visiting nor writing to Elizabeth for three
days. On the third, he met O'Brien, who,
almost with tears in his eyes, wished him
happiness ; and on the fourth he appeared
in Burlington Street, and explained, though
a little coldly, that business and his uncle
had engrossed him.

The interval was filled up, for Elizabeth,
by the congratulations of her friends and
acquaintances. Among them came those
of Gilbert, for which she had looked rather
eagerly, and of Lawrence O'Brien, for which
she had not looked at all.

Gilbert expressed a good deal of surprise,
and a little dissatisfaction. He began by
asking if the news which Lady Ellen had
just given to him was true.

Elizabeth assured him that it was.

Well," he said slowly, looking at her a
little anxiously, " I dare say you know
him better than I do ; but he is not the
sort of man I should have fancied you
marrying."

' Isn't he ? Why not ? "

'' Oh, I don't know ; he seems to be a
little cold-blooded, you know. I suppose
you will be offended with me for saying so,
though you did ask me."

Indeed I shall not. It would take a

good deal to offend me from you, Gilbert.
I am sorry you should think so of Edward
of course I am  but I know you will
change your mind when you come to know
him better. He does not wear his heart
upon his sleeve, and I like him the better
for it."

'eyes, dear, of course; and if he had
been unable to keep a thought to himself,
you would have liked him the better for his
charming openness. The real ground of
quarrel is this, Lizzie : I don't think he is
quite the man to know what a treasure he
has got. I can't fancy him as desperately
in love as your lover ought to be before I
would allow him a whisper of hope."

''Oh, if that's all " said Elizabeth,

drawing a long breath, with a combination
of smile and blush that was altogether
radiant. Then, growing demure again,
I don't think you have much ground for
complaint in that respect."

She looked up, half laughing, but her
cousin's face was still grave.

To tell the truth, Gilbert, with the
deepest sincerity, he loves me so much that
I am always unhappy with the thought that
I can't love him enough in return."

Oh, Lizzie, Lizzie ! if you only knew
how much too crowd a woman's love is foro



any of us ! Upon my word, Hamlet wasn't
far wrong when he told Ophelia to go to a
nunnery."

You would not send Millie, though,"
said Elizabeth, partly amused, partly indignant,
and with a trembling in her voice of
tears not far off.

'' No, I would not ; I could not. But in
very truth, Liz, I am half afraid of winning
her, for fear I should make her as unhappy
as so many men do make their wives. I
pray Heaven I may be killed some way
sooner than that."

''My dear Gilbert ! " said Elizabeth, much

moved. She slipped her hand into his and
went on. 'that would be the only way
you could make her unhappy. As long asa
woman is loved like that, she doesn't
care for anything else. And as to deserving
 well, I suppose none of us can deserve
the best kind of love ; it is not a question
of deserving. Only," with a little laugh,
I know I wish that I had love enough to
give Edward more than he deserves."

If there's an overplus on either side,"
said Gilbert, " it is very well it should be
on his. The best wish I can wish you is
that it may be so always."

'' The best wish, Gilbert ? "

'' Yes, dear. Yours is sure to grow if he
is worthy ; and that his should keep on
increasing in the same proportion is surely
the best wish I can make for you both.
And now, Liz, admire my heroism. I
have been talking all this time of your
affairs (with my heart in them, let me say),

and what do you think I have in my
pocket ? "

'' Oh, what ? "

He dropped into her lap a letter. It
was a short but very cordial invitation
to go to Sherborne, and Orlando's name
was at the end. As Elizabeth read it, the
words formed themselves into Orlando's
voice ; the very imagination of that disturbed
the even beating of her heart, and
brought a troubled colour to her face.

'' I am glad ; it is very nice of him," she
said softly, as she gave back the letter.

"If I had gone about looking for a
brother-in-law," said Gilbert, " I don't think
I could have found one to suit me better
than Sherborne."

No, I don't think that you could."

You like him, too, don't you ? "

Very much indeed ; and so does Aunt
Ellen. I think, in a few years' time, he
may make a very noble man." She sighed.

"I am glad that you are going to be
with him."

'' Why ? " asked Gilbert, opening his
eyes.

'' I think you will be a good companion
for him," she answered, In a quiet and
measured voice.

With that, Orlando fell out of the conversation,
which turned towards Gilbert's
own affairs.

On the next of Lady Ellen's Tuesday
evenings, Elizabeth saw that Lawrence
O'Brien was present. She thought he
would have done better not to come, and
fully expected that, after the needful word
or two of greeting, he would speak to her
no more. But at a moment when she was
unoccupied she found him near her. He
spoke, for the first moment, of indifferent
things ; then, dropping his voice a little,
and with his Irresistible smile softened by
his eyes Into something rather pathetic,
fell into another key.

'* Miss Glendinning, will you allow me
to say that I congratulate you very heartily
upon the news which every one is telling
me about you ? "

Elizabeth looked up quickly. This,
from him, touched as well as surprised
her.

I don't think there Is a man in London
whom I think more highly of than I do
of Grove. He has behaved to me like a
hero,"  or, as Lawrence pronounced it,
becoming more than usually Irish in his
emotion, a Jiaro. " I'll never forget it
of him."

Thank you  thank you very much,"
said Elizabeth, warmly. 'rit makes me
very happy to hear you say so." And
from that day O'Brien was exalted several
steps in her esteem.

She related the circumstance to Captain
Grove, who smiled complacently.

'' Now, don't you think that you were

a little hard on him ? " she asked. " You
see how differently he thinks of you."

"Yes," said Captain Grove, slowly, as
who should say, " The cases are not
parallel."

Elizabeth laughed, and told him he was
conceited, though a full agreement with
his opinion was shining all the time In
her eyes.

Captain Grove, ever so slightly lifting
his eyebrows, looked at her with a momentary
cold displeasure. Then In his usual,
even tone he replied, " Winning you is
enough to make a man conceited."

Elizabeth, who did not yet know that
true love makes humble, was pleased ; but
an instinctive knowledge, whose existence
she would vehemently have denied, bade
her change the subject. She began, In
these days, to find that even an acknowledged
and sanctioned love was not free
from Its cares. For Captain Grove, now

that that which he had set his heart on
was avowedly his own, began for the first
time to suspect that it was hardly worth
the winning. V/ith him, as with all ungenerous
men,

The lovely toy, so fiercely sought,
Had lost its charm by being caught.'

His uncle, like a moral Naboth at his gate,
poisoned his happiness. He could not
rejoice in his triumph while he knew that
one man viewed it with sarcastic eyes. He
began to appear to himself in the light of
a man who had made generous sacrifices
for love, and to trouble Elizabeth's clear
mind with hints of himself in that aspect.

And thus time pursued its course, bringing
joy and pain, and abatement of pain
and death ; and the strands of life, which
were twisted together, unawares, lengthened
a little, and turned this way and that,
figuring a pattern which they foresaw not.

CHAPTER IV.

AT A WEDDING.

Orlando. They shall be married tomorrow"; and I will
bid the duke to the nuptial. But, O, how bitter a thing
it is to look into happiness through another man's eyes !
By so much the more shall I tomorrow be at the height
of heart-heaviness, by how much I shall think my brother
happy, in having what he wishes for."  As You Like It.

There was a period In which the characters
of a plays or a novel not unfrequently
changed their dispositions In the last actor
the last chapter with as much ease and
completeness as their costumes. It may
readily be seen how much such a transformation
assisted In bringing about a swift
and happy termination. Those critics, however,
who hold that fiction should mirror
nature, have followed the lead of Fleldlnor

C5

O

and Richardson in condemning such a
treatment, and their persistent censure has
slowly eliminated it from the modern novel.
On the stage, indeed, that stronghold of
tradition, whose literature is always of the
most conservative and conventional, the
practice lingers still. But, in regard to
novels, it is so completely dead that the
time seems to have come for pointing out
its virtues, and for suggesting that the
opposite extreme, which is so very much
alive among us, is not without faults. The
personages of modern fiction have often
become so very stable of mind that their
natures are not at all modified by the
deeply moving experiences which they
undergo. We leave them on the last page
just as virtuous or villainous, and no more
so, than on the first. But does this stability
mirror our own observation of life ? Do
wee find in our friend of thirty the friend
whom we made at twenty  or should wee

be satisfied If we did ? And can we not
often, either in our own life or in those which
have stood near us, point out a moment
which seems to have altered a whole
nature ? Love, or grief, or a sudden
temptation, touches us, and we are changed.
At Sherborne, a change had come thus
both to Orlando and to Millie. To the
one it had come on the wings of a great
pain, to the other, of a great joy. Millie
had been all her life the victim of a self-tormenting
temper. An uneasy craving
for more affection, a jealous shyness of
lavishing her own, continual suspicion that
she was unlovable, and hot rebellion
against the notion that forbearance was
given her in the place of love, had made
her an uncomfortable companion even to
chance acquaintances, yet more so to those
who were nearer to her, and most of all
uncomfortable to herself. But now, when
Gilbert came to Sherborne, and she received,

as she very soon did, the assurance
of an affection which fulfilled even her restless
desires, she began for the first time to
know happiness, and to suspect herself of
ingratitude.

The letters which the pair wrote to
Elizabeth, announcing their engagement,
filled her with great surprise. The strong
affection of Gilbert was familiar to her, and
she regarded it as a peculiar and individual
feature of his disposition ; but the enthusiasm
of Millie was a new development.
Was love, then, like this ? She looked
anxiously into her own heart, and inquired
of herself how it was that she did not feel
thus tor her lover. And yet she was sure
that she felt as much for him as her nature
was capable of feeling. She would die
for him, she thought. Oh yes ! she
answered herself, with a little smile that
ended in a sigh. It would not even be a
very hard ordeal, for her conscience would

VOL. II. F

then be satisfied with the extent of her
love, and she had begun already to suspect
that life was not so satisfactory a matter as
it had seemed to her young fancy. She
looked again into the letters for some
mention of Orlando, some hint which
might show him a little happier, and
remove from her the haunting remembrance
of his pale, grieved face. It was
only said that Orlando was pleased, and
that he and Gilbert liked each other very
much. An eager desire to find food for
hope drew a little even from that. There
was another passage : 

'' Of course you will be my bridesmaid.
You know you promised me that, years
ago. Ah, Elizabeth, when I used to wish
you were my sister we never thought how
near I should come to being so, did we ?
It pleases me so much to think that you
are as happy as I am. Write to me all
about yourself. Orlando does not seem to

know much about Captain Grove, and
Gilbert  well, perhaps you can understand
that Gilbert can't be brought to talk
much about anybody but himself and me."
Poor Orlando ! She could not but
understand that Gilbert was likely to take
from him more of Millie's companionship
than he would atone for with his own.
And then to have before him in his love-sorrow
this constant reminder of lovejoy
! She ought to have spared it to him,
somehow. And for herself, how could she
fulfil her old promise of being Millie's
bridesmaid ? and, on the other hand, how
could she break it without declaring the
cause ? And that she would never do.
Even Edward should never know that.
She had hurt Mr. Sherborne enough
already ; she would never put it into anyone's
power to pity him. With that, came
a little wave of cynicism not natural to her,
but acquired from Captain Grove. Very

likely, by this time, Mr. Sherborne had
almost recovered from his disappointment ;
for had not Edward said that men soon
got over these things ? But the bridesmaid
question was one which gave her
much uneasy thought. She resolved, at
last, to put off decision for the present.
There would be some months before the
wedding. She would wait and see. Very
likely she and her father might be abroad
again by that time. But this loophole was
not left her. The marriage was fixed for
September, and she found her coming
taken so much as a matter of course that
only the most explicit declaration of her
motives could have released her. She
contrived to shorten the length of her
promised stay as much as possible, and
trusted that the number of guests would
make it easy to see very little of Orlando.
It would be difficult to overstate the
ashamed discomfort which she felt In the

idea of needing thus to plan and regulate
her demeanour.

Orlando, on his side, had made up his
mind to permit himself no smallest sign of
feeling by which she might be discomforted.
The prospect of seeing her again was the
greatest delight now left him. He must
have been more than human not to rejoice
that it was coming, and that it was coming
without his power of preventing, so that
there could be no question of the duty of
denying himself

Thus, one sunny, September afternoon,
Elizabeth found herself meeting Millie and
Gilbert on the platform of the little Sher-borne
station. Millie's surprisingly bright
face startled away all painful reflections,
and Gilbert's broad smile diffused a sympathetic
glow of satisfaction. As they drove
home, too, Millie's happy chatter drew off
the upper stream of her attention from her
own deeper thoughts, harping persistently

upon the one string which she would so
gladly have silenced. As they drew
nearer to the house, Millie's note changed,
and It was, " Look, Lizzie ! now you begin
to see the house. There's Sherborne
Beacon ; " and with a laugh across to her
lover, " That's what Gilbert calls me."
Then came two little figures flying along
the terrace, ' followed by their hair,' and
crying, " Cousin Elizabeth ! Oh, Cousin
Elizabeth ! "

And In Elizabeth's mind ran, all the
while, like the burden of a song, " How
if I had been coming to this as my
home ? " A feeling, too, which it angered
her to perceive, whispered how much
pleasure this place would have given her
  if she had loved Orlando. Within the
house, Mr. Sherborne met them. Elizabeth
and he gave each a glance of swift
inquiry to the other. Mr. Sherborne's
resentment, always a plant of difficult

growth, withered away at once. Elizabeth,
was obliged to feel again that, if she had
loved Orlando, she could also have loved
his father. Then she was taken upstairs
by Millie and regaled with lovers' gossip,
interesting only to those who love the
lovers. This was carried on while Elizabeth
changed her dress, and prepared for
dinner, Millie aiding in all sorts of small
services, such as, in earlier times, it had
always been her part to receive and
Elizabeth's to render. Pausing before her,
after fixing a flower in her hair, she said
suddenly 

h'lzzAe, you don't look well."

'' I am."

You have lost your colour, and there
is a line coming here, round your mouth."

'* It's the end of the season, Millie, and
the consequence of late London hours. If
we go abroad, as Dr. Travis seems to
think we had better, I shall come back
blooming."

"Oh no!" said Millie; ''I am sure you
won't. You will be all that time away
from Captain Grove. How can you bear
the idea ? "

Elizabeth laughed and sighed; the laugh,
at the notion of herself pining for Captain
Grove, the sigh, at her own incapacity of
pining for him.

Millie looked grave, reflecting on her
friend's sad case. '' You are not likely to
be married this year, then ? "

No. Most likely it will be next
spring, when we come home. Edward
did propose that it should be at once ; but
I could not let papa go away alone, even
with Bannacker and Mrs. Bannacker. By
another winter, I hope, he won't need to
go abroad, and he will be better accustomed
to do without me."

She stopped suddenly  Millie did not
guess why  as she heard Orlando's voice
upon the staircase.

The girls went down, arm In arm, just
before dinner. The room which they
entered seemed to be full of people, but
Elizabeth's first knowledge was that Orlando
was among them. What an absurd
cowardice, she said to herself, it was, to
be so much more afraid of meeting him
than she had been of meeting Lawrence
O'Brien ; and after four months, too ! She
kissed her two aunts, shook hands cordially
with Mr. Oakes, and, more distantly,
with two uncles of Gilbert's whom she
knew. Then came Orlando's turn ; of
course  there was not a trace of emotion
in his greeting. It was simple, natural,
friendly, just as it always had been. She
could hardly believe that that one troubled
episode of the Botanical Gardens had ever
had a real existence at all. Evidently, he
had eot over it. How vain and foolish
to have supposed herself of so much
importance to him ! Her mind was set

free, and, with a little sense of blankness,
she looked round upon the vague fringe
of unknown persons. They proved to be,
after all, but two  an eagle-faced, elderly
man and a slight, dark-eyed young girl.
Millie presently Introduced her to both.
'' My uncle, Mr. Pelham;" and *My cousin,
Rosa Sherborne."

Then dinner was ready, and she passed
Into the panelled dining-room, still with that
feeling of Indistinct blankness. Orlando
was pale, but kept the smile on his lips.
It was hard upon him to see his dreams
fulfilled thus. He had so often pictured
Elizabeth in this room  so often fancied
her voice and his father s mingling, as they
mingled now. He thought, behind his
smile, of Macbeth, and that his fulfilment,
too, had been of the kind which

Keeps the word of promise to the ear,
And breaks it to the hope.'

And he had to bear It, and cover up his

suffering as he could, and to talk to Lady
Mary, and seem to eat his dinner ; and to
be conscious, through it all, of every tone
of Elizabeth's voice, and aware every time
she lifted up her eyes. He kept honourably
to his resolution. He talked to hera
sentence or two, with Lady Mary fora
third  of her journey down, and of her
father's health ; just so much as to prevent
any notion that he avoided her, and then
he neither approached her, nor looked at
her, again.

She felt that her plans for keeping apart
from him were superfluous and silly. She
ought to have known, beforehand, that he
might be trusted to keep off all possible
awkwardness. Seeing him thus in his
own home she began, even in this first
evening, to perceive good points in his
character, the existence even of which she
had not before considered. It did not
escape her woman's eye that it was

Orlando whose care and thoughtfulness
supplied, in a great measure, the place
which his mother had left empty, and
which his sister was often too much occupied
in her own affairs to fill. It was
Orlando who kept Lady Ellen's hours
amused, and took care to provide partners
for her at whist who should be both
skilful and meek-tempered. He it was,
too, who was always at hand to take his
father's place, when Lady Mary had been
talking to him overlong, or when the
elder of Gilbert's uncles had discoursed
more than enough upon foreign politics.
All this Elizabeth saw, and was moved
to imitate and assist. She made herself
agreeable to Mr. Pelham, and found that
he was ' gracious, if he be observed,' and
that he had a quiet gift of anecdote, which
he bestowed only upon humbly minded
listeners. She also cultivated Millie's very
shy young cousin, who seemed a little at

a loss between her elders and the children.
And, in the course of a day or two, Rosa
began to repay her attention by that
purest, most unselfish, and least enduring
homage which a young girl bestows upon
the elder and more experienced woman
of whom she makes herself a disciple.

But, before the end of the second day,
she had come to understand that her
feeling of relief  relief with a touch of
contempt and disappointment  had been
premature. Orlando's face, so altered, so
grown older, told its own tale. She could
not but see the change, could not but
know that she and pain had done it.
Even the unselfish thoughtfulness, for
which it was impossible not to like him
the better, carried a pang of self-reproach
to her heart. The happy sovereignty of
youth, that clear view of its own aims, and
that blissful assurance of their paramount
importance, had given place to the forethought

for the comfort of others, which
seldom comes to us till we have begun
to know doubts of winning our own.
Elizabeth saw the change with a yearning
pain, such as a mother feels when she sees
it in her boy. Profound sadness overcame
her whenever she was alone. Yet she
hoped that, perhaps, by this time Orlando
was recovering from the blow. She could
not but believe that time had brought
some ease. But, on the third day of her
stay, *even this lesser hope received a
shock.

It was a fine, clear morning. Gilbert
had gone to the village on some errand
for his father. Millie, after wandering
about in an unsettled fashion, suggested
that Elizabeth should be taken up into a
tower, which rather incongruously adorned
one side of the house, and see the view.
Ida, Maudie, and Rosa joined them. They
wandered, first, into the long room which

served as a picture-gallery, and thence
looked into the library to see the famous
Vandyke representing the favourite ancestor
of the family. His story was a melancholy
one, and Elizabeth carried it in her mind
as they went upstairs. To her feeling, a
shadow of sadness hung over all this house.
Millie was passing out of it, and would
cease to be a Sherborne, but round Orlando
it could only thicken.

*' Poor boy ! " she sighed within herself,
and for the first time felt the word inappropriate.


They mounted towards the tower.

"It is Orlando's favourite den," said
Millie.

Shall we not perhaps disturb him ? "
said Rosa, drawings back.

Oh no ; he isn't here. He has prone
down to the lodge about some repairs.
And I don't suppose he would mind if
he were."

*' It's like the spider's parlour, 'up a
winding stair,' " said Maudie, following, out
of breath.

Millie pushed open the door at the head
of the winding stair, and a perfume came
out towards them of tobacco, too constantly
renewed to become stale. They entered
a small, square room, scantily furnished
with odd, old furniture. It had windows
in three of its four walls, and as the Beacon
Hill lay behind, no rising ground obscured
the wide stretch of landscape. Turning
from the view, the girls examined, with a
shy curiosity, the features of this male lair.
Rosa began to exclaim her recognition of
an old carved chest, and to declare that
Orlando had assured her childhood of Its
being the very chest mentioned in the
Mistletoe Bough.' Millie was still looking
out upon the road that led from
the village. Elizabeth, at Rosa's words,
turned from the window, and glanced

round the room. Against one wall hung
a map of the county, and against
another, in a corner, that little Welsh
landscape of Duncannon's, at which they
had looked together when it hunof on the
walls of Burlington House. It brought a
sudden shock and rush of remembrance.
No one else was looking at it. Rosa was
still chattering about the box, Millie still
watching from the window. All at once
a quick step came up the stair, and
Orlando, coming in, was surprised to find
the little tower-room filled by a group of
guilty-looking, laughing girls.

Your fort is stormed, Orlando," said
Rosa, with the pretty smile and flush
which a word or a sharp sound would
call up.

Yes, so I see," he answered. His
eyes went to Elizabeth. Hers sprang
from the picture to him with startled,
almost alarmed, inquiry. The unexpected

VOL. II. G

moment found him without his customary
mask. Question and answer crossed in
their looks, and left Elizabeth to feel how
vain was her hope of his forgetting-then

Rosa was asking him if he remembered
about the box, and Ida was
demanding a translation of the Latin
mottoes carved in the stone arches of
the windows. Orlando smiled at Rosa's
nursery reminiscences, and explained the
Latin, word by word, to the children.
None of them saw anything unusual in
his manner. Only to Elizabeth's ear was
the pathetic note of weariness perceptible
in his voice. Perhaps the sight of the
picture had recalled more vividly the
ardent, clear-souled ring which had belonged
to it, four months ago. And in
the same moment she remembered  or
had his eyes reminded her ?  that it was
a year to-day since that Wednesday when
he had seen her first in Shrubs's Wood.

She Stood silent, unable to recover ease
of speech or unconcern of face.

Millie, catching sight of Gilbert, turned
with a satisfied countenance from the
window, and the whole party went down
again ; Elizabeth still quite silent, and
surprised at the strength of her own
emotion.

Sir William Ailing, a neighbour and
fellow magistrate, came back with Mr.
Sherborne to dinner, that evening. In a
loud, open-air voice he asked Orlando
from the other end of the table 

And when are we to celebrate your
wedding, my boy ? "

Orlando reddened a little, at the unexpected
attack, but answered, quietly and
easily enough 

'' Not just yet, I think. Sir William."

Eh ? Why not ? Quite time to think
about it. We shall want a lady here at
Sherborne when Miss Millie deserts us.

I am afraid you are hard to please, young
gentleman."

He glanced round the table with a
smile, and there was a moment of silence.
Orlando, by an effort, held his eyes from
looking at Elizabeth, whose face, steady
in expression, had taken. In spite of herself,
a deeper colour. Rosa turned pink to
the ears. Mr. Sherborne, looking up and
smile, said  

What ! do you want to rob me of both
my children at once, Sir William ? "

A glance passed from father to son, and
the painful moment was over.

Elizabeth wished that the wedding were
over too. It would fall to Orlando's share
to walk down the church with her, in the
eyes of all the congregation. Again she
wished that, at any price, she had contrived
to spare him this. Surely, she might
have found some means to stay away. Or
oh, if she could only have known earlier,

and spared him altogether ! Edward had
warned her. She ought to have believed
him. Would she never learn to understand
herself and those about her clearly
as other people did ?

Her meditations upon these subjects
were apt to be disturbed by Rosa, and
Rosa's conversation inclined to centre
more and more round her cousin.
Elizabeth, conscious of her own secret
cause for avoiding the subject, dared not
show the pain which its continual discussion
gave her. Rosa, too, began to be a weight
on her heart. Was this poor little girl
entangled, too, in the web of unavailing
wishes and regrets ? Was hers an enduring
affection, or merely a school-girl's
fancy, encouraged by the clinging to family
traditions which made a Sherborne heroic
in her eyes ? Elizabeth saw her often
steal into the library, and was as sure as
if she had watched her that she stood

ORLANDO.

contemplating the Vandyke portrait. Once
Elizabeth, herself, was moved to do the
same, but she, at least, had carried in a
book as an excuse to herself. She stood
with the book in her hand, looking up at
the painting, partly admiring the work,
partly studying the likeness of the face,
and haunted by a recollection of the sad
story belonging to it. She was disturbed
by a little rustle in the doorway. Turning,
she saw Rosa, standing with her hand
upon the door, surprise, suspicion, and a
feeling of detection struggling in her face.

Elizabeth did not, as Rosa would have
done, turn guiltily from the portrait ; but,
looking at it again, said, " A fine picture.
It makes me feel quite envious. All our
family portraits have gone, with the title,
to a distant cousin."

The words were a true expression of the
smallest part of her thought.

'' Yes, I suppose it is a fine picture,"

said Rosa, drawing near. " But isn't there
a wonderful likeness ? "

To your cousin ? Not quite so much,
I think, when you come to look into it."

She put her arm round the young girl's
shoulder, and felt her quick breathing as
she stood close at her side.

A sad, melancholy face," she said.

Quick came Rosa's answer. " Yes ; and
Orlando's is getting to look just like it."

She turned her dark eyes up, inquiringly,
to Elizabeth's face.

Elizabeth made no reply, and suffered
her face to make none. Only in her eyes
the retorted question showed itself, " What
do you suspect ? "

Do you like Orlando ? " asked Rosa.

"Very much indeed."

You don't often talk to him."

He is busy in his way, and I in mine.
But I think at heart we are very good
friends. Come, Rosie, let us go out of

your uncle's private domain before he
comes to wonder what we want here."

She set her book upon the shelf, and
they turned away together, Rosa putting
up her hand to take that of Miss Blending
as it lay upon her shoulder.

** If I come to London in the spring, I
shall see you, shall I not ? "

I hope so, my dear."

*' I am sure I hope I shall."

They came into the empty breakfast-room
and sat down in its window.

Rosa began again, hesitatingly, and with
her eyes fixed on Elizabeth's, watchful of
any change there which might bid her
stop.

Don't people  in London  admire you
very much ? "

'* Some people, perhaps."

Girls too ? "

I don't know of any."

But, I mean, you have lots of friends"

Not many friends ; a great many acquaintances.
Gilbert and Aunt Ellen are
the dearest of my friends."

'' Except Captain Grove," said Rosa,
shyly, and looking down.

*' Of course, except him."

'' You haven't any great friend, then, at
all ? "

'' No, I suppose I have not," Elizabeth
answered, rather sadly.

Rosa's face broke into a smile. Putting
Elizabeth's hand to her own cheek, she
said softly, " I should like to be your
friend."

Would you, Rosa ? " said Elizabeth,
sadly still ; and in her heart rose the
thought, " How if she knew what I have
done to him f "

Gently Rosa drew the hand to her lips,
still looking up to Elizabeth with eyes of
mute appeal. Elizabeth put her other
arm quickly round her, and laid her own

face against Rosa's hair, saying brokenly,
'' My dear Rosa ! my dear child ! "

There were tears, If Rosa could but
have seen them, In her eyes. Affection
was to her so Inestimable a good, that Its
proffer drew from her an overfull measure
of return. That Rosa should cling to her,
just now, touched the very Inmost ring of
her heart. They held each other closely
embraced. Rosa felt Elizabeth's breath on
her forehead, smiled softly, and was happy.
A step came along the terrace, and they
drew a little apart. Gilbert came, and
looked in.

Oh, Miss Sherborne and Lizzie, Millie
Is looking for you. A mysterious, blue,
card-board box has arrived, which Is said
to contain wreaths. Would you go and
look at them ? "

'where is Millie?"

'rout on the lawn with mother and Aunt
Ellen."

They hastened to join him. As they
came out upon the terrace, they caught a
glimpse between the trees of Orlando,
playing battledore and shuttlecock with
the children, and laughing as loud as
they.

They want a fourth, Rosie," said Elizabeth.


Rosa looked, and her face grew eager.

I must go and see the wreaths, though,
first," she said.

But when the wreaths had been duly
admired, and discussed, and tried on, Rosa
slipped away ; and Elizabeth, devoting herself
to the entertainment of her two aunts,
left Millie and Gilbert free to follow her
example.

The wedding morning came, bringing
that awakening whose first thought is a
questioning look at the sky. The sky' had
a smile for answer, and the mind went forward
to the next thought, of important

matters Impending at an early hour. The
day was unHke any other. Its place In the
week and the hours of Its course were
alike unsettled. The strange, disjointed,
early meal was dethroned from Its proper
title of breakfast by the thought of a later
claimant to follow. No one's speech flowed
easily ; a fluttered anticipation Interrupted
the natural courses of thought.

Then came an Interval of bustling preparation
shut Into the upper rooms ; maids
in light dresses and white-ribbon caps
flitted about the passages. Downstairs,
flowers were being unladen, and the
winds that blew through the open doors
came and went In gusts of perfume. Oneby
one, guests gathered In the breakfast-room.
Two Miss Ayllngs, wearing pale
dresses and long veils, arrived with their
father and mother. Orlando, meeting them,
seemed to become involved In waves of
pink flouncing. " Might they go up to

Millie ? " they demanded, and rustling, disappeared.
Then, again, an interval. Mr.
Pelham looked at his watch. Ida and
Maudie came down, also pink, like a pair
of rosebuds. Then much rustle of silk, a
faint murmur of voices, and the inflow of
Millie and her four bridesmaids, together
with Lady Ellen and Lady Mary.

To Elizabeth, everything was a kind
of dream, in which Rosa, clinoincr at her
elbow, was the clearest figure. The church,
with its crowd on the pathways and in the
seats, ]willie's dewy eyes and trembling
smile, the earnest face of Gilbert, were all
vague as a half-remembered past. The moment
in which the world became suddenly
clear again was the moment which found
her sionincr her name in the vestry, with
Orlando standing bv as he had stood at
Bellingham. Then suddenly came a clash
of wedding-bells, brighter sunshine broke
in, and she was walking down the church

with her hand on Orlando's arm, not daring
to look in his face.

The rest of the day was all strange.
The wedding-breakfast was unlike all
ordinary meals ; and when it was overcame
the blank feeling proper to the afternoon
of a wedding-day, and like no other
unless, perhaps, that of coming out from a
theatre into daylight, at the end of a morning
performance. Judging by the apparent
length of the day, it might have been
nearly midnight, and in fact it was not
yet four o'clock. Millie and Gilbert were
gone. Mr. Sherborne was looking pale
and melancholy. Lady Mary had disappeared,
and was crying a little in the
solitude of her own room. Orlando,
coming to Elizabeth's side, asked her
anxiously, "What can we do to entertain
them all for the next hour or two ? "

In the evening, there was to be a dance ;
it was the interval which must be filled.

She was flattered, and a little touched, by
his appealing to her.

She looked up, considering. ' Could we
not have some music ? We are to dance
in the picture-gallery, are not we ? Suppose
you suggest that we ought to try how
the piano sounds there ? "

'' Would you begin ? "

"If you like ; but I think you had
better ask Miss Ailing."

Thank you. Yes, perhaps I had
better."

He departed, looking very grateful, and
the move was made. Elizabeth, exerting
herself to keep up conversation in the
pauses, found her reward in the dissipation
of her own melancholy; and the interval
passed over agreeably enough. The evening
came, bringing more guests, and the
darkness which seemed to have been so
unaccountably long in coming. The hours
had at last put themselves in their right

place. Elizabeth, mingling among the
others in the dance, had, through all, a
sense of unreality. The pictures on the
walls seemed more substantial than the
fluctuating groups below. She glanced up
at the pictures, thinking, " I shall never
see these again." A lingering regret was
in the background of her mind because
she must go away tomorrow. Becoming
aware of its presence, she resolutely cast
it out, and looked round to see where she
might be helpful. Her eyes fell upon
Orlando and Rosa, dancing together.
Orlando was smiling with a happier smile
than usual, and Rosa's eyes were beaming.
If she could leave Orlando's heart turning
towards Rosa she could go away, relieved.
And yet ,beneath her relief, shut into a
seed, and allowed no soil for growing, lay
a knowledge that she herself would have
been the fitter wife for him. She was
almost angry with herself for suffering the

question of his future so much to trouble
her mind. After all, what was it to her ?
Why could she not dance, and laugh, and
have no sense of guilt ? Edward would
tell her that she had done no harm  nay,
more than that, that only her own vanity
suggested the idea. And, with a sigh, she
resolved that she would dance and be
happy like the rest. We all know how
punctually such a resolution fulfils itself,
and how natural it was that she should
awake, next morning, with a sense of
burden, vaguer perhaps, but certainly no
lighter, than before.

The next, last day, passed quickly. The
hours were busy in a small, superficial way ;
there was no time to feel emotion. Orlando
drove her to the station, Rosa and Maudie
accompanying. No single, deeper-touching
word was spoken. All was discussion
of yesterday. The good-byes were not
very fervent  why should they be ? Rosa

VOL. II. H

spoke again of seeing her in London
in the spring, but Rosa's mind was busier
to-day with other hopes. Orlando shook
hands and smiled ; there was no trace of
forlornness. Then the approaching train
drew up and stopped. He had opened
the carriage door and gone to see that her
luggage was put in.

As the train began to move, she leaned
forward. He was near to her window.
Their eyes met in that interchange of instantaneous
question and answer which
had befallen them more than once. Rosa ?
No, alas ! No, it was in vain to comfort
herself that way. She had done harm, and
though Edward, and all the world, and
Orlando himself should fail to blame her,
she could not cease to blame herself. She
drew back, stricken suddenly pale.

Orlando, Rosa, and Maudie turned away
to the exit of the station. The hastening
train carried her away from them.

CHAPTER V.

IN PARIS.

Oh, who would be a woman ? who that fool,
A weeping, pining, faithful, loving woman ?
She hath hard measure still, where she hopes kindest,
And all her bounties only make ingrates."

Scott.

It was the May following Millie's wedding.
Elizabeth and her father were in
Paris, the Paris of before the war. Away
in Germany were drilling the hordes of
young men who were to suffer and to die
under its walls, next winter ; but to Elizabeth
the Paris air brought no forewarnino-
of such a storm. To her it seemed a
paradise of brightness, sunshine, and pretty
things  a city without a care. Yet she was
not sorry to think that in a few weeks more

she would be back In London. It was
nearly half a year since she had seen her
aunt Ellen, who in her last letters had
owned to beings unwell. Then Edward,
too ! She pined a little for something
which had been felt wanting among the
gaieties of flowery Nice, and she thought
that the want must be that of her lover's
society. His letters were very precious to
her, and whenever she received a fresh
one, or read over one that was old, she
told herself anew that she failed to love
the writer to his worth. Captain Grove
was a man who showed to great advantage
in his letters, and in them Elizabeth could
begin to forget the slight but ever-recurring
discord which had haunted the later days
of their personal intercourse. On the
whole, she was returning the happier and
the more hopeful for her winter. Her
father seemed decidedly stronger, they had
made pleasant acquaintances in Nice, and

Mrs. Bannacker, the wife of Major Glen-dining's
old military servant, who always
accompanied them, had this time resigned
herself contentedly to the altered conditions
of foreign life.

Thus Elizabeth, sitting in the little
Parisian drawing-room, with its ill-hatching
door, its rattling window, and pretty,
exactly jointed furniture, could feel as
tranquil in the face of the future as she
supposed Paris itself to be. A fashionable
painter of modern life might have been
well pleased to make her the subject of a
picture, as she sat busying her fingers with
some insubstantial kind of lace-work, and
murmuring to herself a little monotonous
burden of song. The picture was broken
up by the entrance of Mrs. Bannacker,
agitated, yet smiling.

"Miss Glendinning," said she, 'there's
Captain Grove."

Elizabeth started up, full of alarm, as

Captain Grove walked in, looking white,
haggard, and very much aged since last
year.

'' What is the matter, Edward ? What

has happened ? Aunt Ellen " cried

Elizabeth.

No, no ; nothing," he answered. Then,
Mrs. Bannacker having by this time retired,
he drew a little nearer and asked, '' Won't
you say, you are glad to see me ? "

"Yes; but you frightened me. Is nothing
really the matter ? You did frighten
me ! And you don't look like yourself*
Oh, Edward, what is it ? "

I have come to say good-bye ; that's
all," Captain Grove answered, speaking
fiercely and gloomily, yet without the loss
of a superficial, smooth composure.

To say good-bye ! " echoed Elizabeth,
turning pale.

A thousand vague conjectures pursued
each other through her brain ; visions,

indistinctly outlined, of some appointment
in far-off colonies ; fleeting possibilities
of falsely aroused, jealous angers against
herself.

He stood, looking at her, not hurrying
himself to speak.

** Tell me, Edward  tell me ! " cried she,
trembling.

'' I am ruined  that's all," said he, still
with the melodramatic touch of ostentatiously
suppressed passion, which afforded
him the more pleasure in its good effect
from being partly real.

Ruined  in money, you mean ? Oh,
is that all ? But how ? Tell me all
about it."

And now the flying phantoms took the
form of broken banks, collapsing companies,
and bankrupt debtors. She could almost
laugh.

Come, Edward, sit down and tell me
everything. But, first, you must smile.

Indeed, you must not look at me like that.
Do you think I care about money ? "

Smiling, not so much from herself as in
appeal to an answer from him, she took
his hand and made him sit down beside
her. Her eyes hung anxiously upon his
face.

'' I am sure it is not your fault," she said
gently.

'rit is. It is my fault," he retorted.

And then, while she listened, pale and
wide-eyed, was poured into her ears a
confused and angry story which she did
not very well understand; of betting, and
of horse-racing, and of his desire to make
money for her sake, and of the certainty of
his assurance concerning some particular
horse ; and then of the foul arts of some adversary
(to whom was given a single syllable
of low-toned imprecation, spoken with an
intensity of hatred that made Elizabeth's
blood stand still), and then of the failure

of the horse, and an aggregation of debts
impossible to be paid ; of disgrace in the
eyes of every man in London, of futile
applications to sunny weather friends, and,
finally, this flight, and the passionate resolve
never to go back to the place where he
would be known to have failed and fallen.
Last of all came the Impetuous outburst,
'' Of course, I can't hold you  of course
you'll leave me too. It was all for your
sake ; but that's nothing. Of course, I
can't be anything to yotc now."

Neither the passion nor the declaration
of belief were quite genuine ; yet there
was enough of reality In both to make his
voice tremble and his eyes shine.

Elizabeth, who had let loose his hand,
caught it quickly, and raising It, laid her
cheek upon It.

*' Never," said she  " never !"

She was a woman very chary of caresses,
receiving, but never orloInatinor endearment,

and the action brought to her lover
a quick throb of triumph. This was a new
sensation, a new stimulus given to the languid
flow of courtship. It was something
to have won from Elizabeth Glendinning
the tribute of such a love as this. Though
he had not quite intended to be taken at
his word, this quick denial had some of the
delight of surprise.

Oh, Lizzie, Lizzie ! " said he ; and suddenly,
hiding his eyes, dropped his face
forward to meet her embrace.

Elizabeth, as they sat, holding each
other close. In silence, was for the first
time quite sure that she loved him. She
was the first to speak.

"If you had money, now at once, could
you not put it all right ? "

Yes, If I had it now at once ; but I
cannot get It ; it's impossible." In his mind
ran the afterthought, '' If I were going to
marry a rich woman it would be easy."

*' But I think I could. There's the house
ill Portland Place, and some other money
that belonged to mamma. It is not very
much, but I dare say I might be able to
borrow it on that at once. And then I
would sell the house to pay it back. I
should come to you all the poorer, Edward,
but that's all."

Her smile was lustrous. You might
have supposed that the loss of money was
a matter for rejoicing. Captain Grove had
raised his face, and regained the calm of
his everyday demeanour.

If you were in London  yes, I daresay
it could be done," he answered, slowly.

Already a scheme began to work in his
brain for getting her away on her journey
to England before her father could come
in and stop her.

To-day is Saturday," said Elizabeth.
'ewe were to leave on Wednesday, but
I am sure we could make it Monday.

Then I should be able to see Mr. Bradley
on Tuesday ; or I could write to him at
once. That would do, would It not ?"

Captain Grove shook his head, and
wondered, In the background of his soul,
whether she was but playing with him.
He had expected her to snatch up hat
and cloak and desire to start without a
moment s pause.

By Tuesday It would be all up with
me. I stayed as long as I had any hope.
If my uncle had had a spark of natural
feeling I should never have been In this
hole. He has never forgiven me for not
selling myself to a wealthy wife."

Elizabeth coloured and trembled.

Do you mean that I should not be Intime
to do you any good ? Oh, Edward,
I have brought this on you ! "

She bent down her head on the arm of
her sofa and wept. Captain Grove, standing
before her, bit his teeth hard upon one

another, and pressed his feet heavily against
the floor. If he had yielded satisfaction
to the impulse of his soul, he would have
broken forth in sarcastic anger against the
tears that were wasting his precious interval
of time.

Don't cry, Elizabeth," said he, speaking
with an enforced softness and touching her
shoulder. "If you will do this for me,
the one hope is in haste. If you could
get to London so as to see a lawyer tomorrow
"

'' To-morrow ! " said Elizabeth, looking
up, her tears arrested by surprise.

Yes, tomorrow. Surely this is a work
of necessity, and of charity too. If you
can do that, it may be done. Else, I
think not."

" Of course I will do it. I would go
barefoot if that would help. INIust I go
now, this minute ? What will papa say ?
He is gone to Chantilly with Colonel

Leslie. Could I have time to go to him,
or to send Bannacker ? "

You can send Bannacker, if you like ;
but remember that every fresh person who
knows this story is one person more, able
to do me an injury."

Oh," said Elizabeth, and paused, standing
by the sofa, stopped in her intention
of writing to her father.

"If you could be ready in three-quarters
of an hour," said Captain Grove, looking
at his watch, "we might catch this afternoon's
boat. I will write to your father 
something that will not alarm him. And,
to-night you would be at your aunt's."
And as she still stood, irresolute, hardly
able to understand what was required of
her, " My dear Lizzie, I am sorry to ask
this of you."

No, no ! " she cried, recovering herself
and smiling brightly. " Don't say that.
If you knew how glad I am to do it ! I

was only thinking. I ought to take Mrs.
Bannacker with me. And yet, if I do, papa
will be uncomfortable, and there will be
nobody to pack up all our things. I don't
know what to do. After all, if yotc don't
mind, I do not see that I should much
care whether other people's propriety is
shocked or not."

- " She would never be ready in time ; and
your father's comfort is paramount. He
will be less alarmed if Mrs. Bannacker is
here to tell him by degrees," decided Captain
Grove, running over many possibilities
in his mind. 'rand now, dear Lizzie,
hasten and get ready, if you are not afraid
to trust yourself to me."

'' Afraid ! No, indeed. And I am an
excellent sailor. I will be quick. Here
is the key of my desk ; you will find everything
there."

She gave her keys to him, and hurried
away. He, taking them, crossed slowly

to her desk, opened it, and stood considering,
then drew a chair and sought paper,
pen, and ink. But, when all these were
ready, he was slow to write, and reopening
the cover, idly lifted Elizabeth's papers.
There lay his own letters and a little
photograph-case, which he unfolded and
looked through. Here were her aunts
and the two golden-haired cousins, here
were Gilbert and Millie and her father.
What had she done with her portrait ot
himself ? .He looked a little farther.
Here was a miniature-case. He opened
it, and found his own photograph laid here
within the cover, opposite to the beautiful
face of her dead mother. He glanced at
the photograph, and thought it looked
unpleasantly younger than the face which
his mirror showed to him every morning.
Then he looked at the miniature, and
critically admired its beauty, and wondered
how a woman so much like Elizabeth had

come to marry such a fool as Elizabeth's
father. Then, hastily, hearing a footstep
on the stairs, he closed It up, shut the
partition of the desk, and began hurriedly
to date his sheet, and to write : " My dear
Major Glendlnnlng."

Elizabeth came in quickly to fetch her
keys. She had changed her dress to a
dust-coloured travelling costume, and had
brought with her a long, dark cloak. " I
shall be ready soon. I have told them
to bring you something to eat," she said,
as she went away again.

Being left alone, Captain Grove once
more paused, and sat In deep thought. He
knew himself to be skilful In composing
letters which agreeably skirted the hard
outlines of exact truth, but to write to
Major Glendlnnlng a letter which should
explain his daughter's hurried departure,
suggest no blameworthiness on his own
part, and yet involve no untruth easy of

VOL. II. I

disposal, was a task for which he was by
no means clever enough. He could find
no better way at last than to write that
Lady Ellen was ill, and that he had come,
at her entreaty, to fetch Elizabeth at once ;
that he himself did not think so seriously
of Lady Ellen's ailments, but that, as
Major Glendinnlng doubtless knew, Lady
Ellen was a little capricious, and that she
could not bear to have her sister. Lady Mary
Oakes, or her younger nieces with her.
(This hint was, he flattered himself, particularly
diplomatic.) He ended by expressing
his disappointment in not seeing the Major,
and his hope of doing so in London, next
week. Then, in a postscript : " Elizabeth
bids me say that she hopes you will not
hurry home the sooner for her unfortunate
recall. She talked of Mrs. Bannacker's
accompanying her, but I have dissuaded
her from taking an extra person to Lady
Ellen's at such a time."

Closing his letter, he was not sorry to
turn to the cold meat and wine which
Bannacker had just brought in. The
meat he scarcely touched, but drank two
or three glasses of Bordeaux, acknowledging
to himself that Major Glendinning
did, at least, know good wine from bad.
Then he strolled to the window, and
looking out on the sunny street, began to
reflect that he was not so unlucky a wretch
after all ; and by-and-by that it was a pity
he had not a week to spend in Paris 
in May, too.

Elizabeth present came in, ready for
her journey, looking a little pale and
anxious, but, he thought, now that he was
at ease to observe her, more beautiful than
ever. After all, debts or no debts, there
were plenty of men in London who would
give a year from their lives to change
places with him.

He went forward to her, put his hands

lightly on her shoulders and kissed her,
saying, " You have saved me, Lizzie."

The kiss was for his own satisfaction,
an assertion to himself of right and power ;
the words were the explanation of it which
he would have her receive. They went
out together, and the long unlooked-for
journey began. As they were driven to
the station Elizabeth asked some further
details, which were given by Captain
Grove in many words, but without much
enlightening her.

When once they were moving away
from Paris, on the road to Calais, Captain
Grove began to breathe with freedom.
Elizabeth was really on her way now.
Yet there were many difficulties to be
surmounted before tomorrow morning.
From Dover, he must telegraph to Lady
Ellen, and perhaps, on his own behalf,
to a money-lender with whom he had had
dealings at one time and another. That,

however, was a reflection to be kept for
the moment to himself. And it would be
necessary to let Elizabeth know that he
had not given very exact explanations
to her father.

The railway carriage, when they started,
had been full, but, after three-quarters of
an hour or so, they were left with only
a middle-aged couple for companions.
Captain Grove looked at them, and
thought that they appeared unlikely to
know English. Still, it would be well to
make sure. He would ask of the husband
some commonplace traveller's question 
whether he would like the window shut.

He did so, and was answered with
head-shaking, and with apologies in
voluble French.

Seeming to recollect himself. Captain
Grove translated his question, and begged
pardon for his forgetful less. After that,
he might speak freely.

'' By-the-by, Lily," said he, touching
Elizabeth's hand.

'eyes," she answered, starting a little,
and bringing her eyes back from the landscape
outside.

I did not tell your father the exact
cause of your return. I was afraid, Lily.
He might well have feared to trust me
with his one treasure after that. If I could
have spoken, it would have been so different.
I made an excuse about your going
home to see Lady Ellen, and her being
ill."

Oh, Edward ! " said Elizabeth, in a
tone of grave disapproval.

It Is true she has been 111, and she did
want you to come home ; she said so the
last time that I saw her."

Elizabeth looked down in silence, but
her face did not at all relax.

I could not have borne that your father
should have taken you away from me,"

he pleaded, with deepening tenderness of
speech and eyes.

'' Do you suppose," she answered, with
some scorn, '' that I would let my father
or any one else take me away from you
against my wish ? "

Again she turned towards the window,
feeling sore at heart.

He for a moment let his face retain its
usual mask of calm. Was she eine to
assume the right of reproof 1 he asked himself
It was like a woman to be so quick
in snatching the supremacy which their
relative positions had put within her reach.
But he could not afford to anger her, just
now. He must conquer by submitting.

Lily," said he.

It was hardly more than a whisper, buta
whisper full of penitent appeal.

She turned instantly. Tears were in
her eyes, and her voice shook.

Forgive me, Edward. I am so hard.
How could I  now f "

Their hands sought each other under
her cloak, and he felt, with quiet self-satisfaction,
that his delicate skill had as usual
brought him success. Now was the moment
to push his advance.

'' I was going to ask you not to tell even
Lady Ellen the exact truth. You can't
think how hard it is for me to feel It
known  I, at my age, to be such a fool.
But let It be as you like. Anything is
better than such a look as you gave tome
just now."

No  did I ? I don't know how it is
that I never seem to be thoughtful for
other people. Of course it must be hard
for you. No, I should not like Aunt Ellen
to know  I mean, if you think she would
misjudge you. And perhaps she might.
I won't tell her. You may trust me never
to breathe a word to any one."

'' My own Lily, how true you are tome
!"

Who should be, if I were not ? I am
so glad that you trust me so entirely."

He answered only with a look, and sank
back again into silence. A little, not
exactly trouble of conscience, but rather
discomfort, in the idea of how she would
feel if she knew all, arose to disquiet him.
He could not but remember how, from the
beginning, he had come to her with falsehood
on his lips ; how his wooing had been
urged by jealousy ; how his constancy 
such as it was  was more than half made
up of mere triumph in the winning of a
prize ; how, even at that moment, he was
making her ignorant trust the shield to
save him from the recoil of his own folly,
and worse than folly.

And she sat there, beside him, thinking
him a hero of romance.

He felt no remorse ; no bitter shame for
the wrong he was doing her. That aspect
never presented itself. He did not exactly

deny to himself, In formula, that a woman
had a claim to just and honest dealing
from her lover, but he never would have
perceived any such claim as valid against
himself. His dread was only that he
might lose her. He absolutely trembled
in thinking how slight a chance might
betray him. A word, a line in a letter,
almost the sight of an acquaintance's face,
might lose her to him for ever. As he
reflected how imminent was the possibility,
he felt a sick terror in the fear. He would
gladly have gone out to fulfil any form of
fetish-worship that could have promised to
him the security of his love. He had got
through a good many difficult passages of
life, adroitly, and without much agitation ;
sure, always, that he could trust himself to
be cool and dexterous, not carried away,
like other men, by impulses and enthusiasms.
But, here, he felt himself afraid.
No loss would be like this loss. He had

thought, when he was certain of her, that
he valued his winning, after all, but little ;
now, when it was only too probable that
she would be lost to him, he felt that he
would rather kill her than let her go. He
dwelt upon that last look of hers  that
clinging, tender, self-reproachful accent.
After all, there must be something powerful
in him to hold fast such a love as that.
And she understood him best. She saw
him as nature meant him to be, as he
might have been, if fate and his uncle had
but been a little kinder. Then, aoain, his
thoughts went forward into the tangled
web of his own embarrassments. There
was yet another step to be taken, but that
he might surely defer till they were on
their passage. He was really weary of it
all. This travelling to and fro after three
harassed and hunted days, in which, ashe
reminded himself, he had scarcely eaten
or slept, was enough to try any man.

There was no need to seek any further
cause, in lengthening years or energies
beginning to decline, or to regard that
whisper which hinted that alcoholic stimulus,
resorted to in times of crisis, was but a
borrowing from the future, liable, like other
borrowings, to have repayment demanded,
with interest, by-and-by. He permitted
himself, therefore, to make no further exertion,
just yet, but when they were sitting
together on the deck of the steamer he
began gently to hint his next suggestion.
There wotdd be a difficulty In getting hold
of Mr. Bradley on a Sunday morning. He
lived out of town, too, did he not ? It was
improbable that they would be able to get
an interview with him before Monday
morning. And then he would most likely
require to see her father before acting.

I am of age," said Elizabeth, defying in
her tone all such censorship.

'' Yes, I know ; but an old-established

family solicitor like that will do all he canto
put hindrances in your way in such a
case as this. And very rightly too, for, in
your own interests, it is an unwise thing
that you are undertaking. Of course he
can't understand my feelings  how determined
I am never to endanger myself  and
you  again. He can't know  how should
he '.  that love led me astray this time."

A light of battle began to glow in
Elizabeth's eyes.

'* But I won't be stopped, Edward. If
Mr. Bradley won't help me at once, I'll find
somebody that will. It is my own money,
and I will do what I like with it."

Captain Grove, though relieved, was a
little amazed bv this outburst. He besfan
to perceive that it would be a serious
matter to be brought into direct collision
with Elizabeth. She, still brighter-eyed and
redder-lipped than usual, presently turned
to him again.

*' Do you know anybody else, Edward,
who would lend me this money directly ?
Not that I am afraid of not getting my
own way, only they might be able to make
it too late. When you have had the
money and there is the acknowledgment
of it, then there will be no doubt about it,
and it will have to be paid."

Captain Grove smiled to himself at the
rudimentary condition of her financial
creed. He answered, not too eagerly, that
he knew several such men, but was it
altogether wise to be so hasty } She
might try to see Mr. Bradley tomorrow.
Should he telegraph to him from Dover ?

No, don't. I know how Mr. Bradley
would be. Get me somebody else  somebody
that you know  and you go and see
him and get all the papers, and then let me
sign it, or whatever is wanted, before anybody
can interfere."

*' My darling Lizzie, it is not so simple
a matter as you suppose."

I thought nothing was so easy as to
borrow money  I mean, when you had
some of your own. Oh, I am sure you
can manage, Edward, somehow. If Gilbert
were only at home he would lend it
me at once."

Captain Grove made no contradiction,
but he was glad that Gilbert could not be
put to the test.

From Dover a telegram was sent in
Elizabeth's name to Lady Ellen :  '' I shall
be with you this evening. Am called to
London on business."

Then followed the second railway
journey through the blossoming fields of
Kent, and lastly they beheld the grey
cloud of London showing dim against the
fading skies.

At the terminus they ran against a party
of acquaintances, who were all surprise and
exclamation at seeing Elizabeth in England.
Elizabeth was by this time very

tired, and looked anxious and jaded.
Captain Grove was sure that suspicion
and curiosity were aroused by this sudden
home-coming under no escort but his.

He broke short the conversation, saying
with the smile which habit had taught to
come easily, " I am sure you will excuse
us. Miss Glendinnlng is tired with her
journey, and anxious to get to her aunt 
Lady Ellen Darling's  at once."

How good of you to stop them ! " said
Elizabeth, as he took his seat beside her
in a cab.

That drive of twenty minutes through the
rattling streets was for Captain Grove the
most oppressive interval of all. For now
the image of Lady Ellen, which he had
put away from him all day,, could be thrust
aside no longer. Lady Ellen, with her
keen eyes, sharp tongue, and terrible habit
of insisting on an answer, was a person for
whom he had never felt himself quite a

match. Her deafness was a target against
which the fine sword-play of his speech
wasted its edge in vain.

The dreaded moment came. They
entered, and were received by Lady Ellen's
own maid, who came running down the
stairs at unwonted speed.

"Oh, Miss Glendinning, I did not think
you could have got here so soon. She Is
a little better, miss, since the morning'*

'' Who ? What ? " said Elizabeth.

Didn't they put it In the telegram, then,
miss ? My lady had a fit  a kind of
stroke  this morning."

"Oh, Aunt Ellen!" cried Elizabeth,
clasping her hands together.

To her lover's mind the news brought a
sudden light of relief Elizabeth passed
quickly up the stairs, forgetful of his
presence. He paused to make appropriate
inquiries of the servants concerning Lady
Ellen ; then, leaving word that he would

VOL. ir. K

look in again, later on, walked home, telling
himself that he was the luckiest man in
London. As for Elizabeth, she dropped
her weariness like a garment, and went to
watch all night by her aunt's bedside. All
through the long, hot hours she sat wakeful,
pondering many things and seeing life grow
dark before her.

THE BEGINNING OF TROUBLES.

It is the punishment of a relation grounded in untruth
that it continually demands falsehood  falsehood, either
open, and acknowledged to ourselves, or wrapt in a veil of
self-deception : until, finally, the lie makes itself into ii
virtue, changes all the groundwork, annihilates the contradiction
which was, after all, in honest Nature, and says :
You must keep faith ; you have been friends so long ; you
have received so much from him,or given him so much :
it would be annihilation of your life ; you must obliterate
a part from it, if you left each other ; now, of all times, is
the time to hold firmly together. If we had always enough
courage and truthfulness not to be drawn in  in spite of
inner contradiction  to binding alliances and obligations,
always appeasing ourselves with the secret thought,
All will come right ; there is no need to look so closely
into things,'  much would be otherwise in the world,
much misery would have no place."  Auerbach.

Lady Ellen remained long ill, and Elizabeth,
of course, stayed with her in Portland
Place. Major Glendinning, when he returned

to England, was left lonely in
Burlington Street, with only Mr. and Mrs.
Bannacker to care for him. The absence
of his daughter produced a dulness in the
house which he was unwilling to attribute
to its true cause. He had always chosen
to believe that he was, himself, the magnet
of attraction to the many visitors who were
wont to fill his rooms, and now that their
number diminished, he told himself that it
was an empty season, and was annoyed
that the rest of his world persisted in callings
it brilliant. The climate, too, of his
native country was not pleasant to him,
and here again he was unfortunate enough
to differ from the majority, who found the
summer of 1870 abundantly dry and hot.
Many a time did he regret his beloved
villa on the slope midway between Nice
and Cities, or sigh for the narrow French
drawing-room in Paris. As the summer
went on, however, hints came to him from

Captain Grove, who prided himself on
getting knowledge earlier than the rest of
the world  rumours of war abroad, which
reconciled him to dwelling in a country
that, with all its faults, was peaceful.

As for Elizabeth, meanwhile, she spent
two months of great anxiety and strain.
The seeming important business which had
brought her home had dwindled into very
nothingness. She hardly remembered the
hurried reading and signing of papers
which had taken place on the Monday
morning, while she, impatient, and listening
with but half her mind, longed to return to
her aunt. Since then, she had seen her
father and her lover but seldom, and by
brief moments, and had had no opportunity
of entering into explanations with her
father. Captain Grove had told her that
all was arran-ed, had assured her once
more that she was his guardian angel, and
had vowed never again to be led astray.

He had also given her to understand that
no further action would be required of her
for the next six months, and then the
matter had fallen out of memory. Her
whole mind was full of Lady Ellen, who
lingered, growing, perhaps, a little better,
but unable to form an intelligible speech,
and almost unable to understand that of
others. Yet her mind was quite clear,
and by degrees Elizabeth learned to interpret
her attempts at speech. At first
Lady Mary had shared her cares, but in
the second month of her sister's illness,
Lady Mary had attained the dignity of
grandmother's, and was now at Kensington
with Millie. She came, indeed,
daily to Portland Place, and so did Gilbert, .
but the long nights hung entirely on Elizabeth.
She snatched an hour, one afternoon,
while Lady Mary replaced her, to
drive to Kensington and assure Millie of
her congratulations. Millie appeared to <

have attained a height of perfect bliss, and
was already looking forward to her boy's
christening. She tried to make Elizabeth
promise that she would be his godmother.
But Elizabeth, hearing that Orlando was
to be one of her co-sponsors, evaded the
request, and resolved within herself that
nothing should induce her to brave such
an ordeal. It was quite sufficiently painful
to be required to trace Orlando's likeness
in the inscrutable countenance of a nine-days'
-old infant.

She was driven rapidly home through
the hot aridity of an afternoon which
might surely make her father happy. It
was now July, and for weeks no drop of
rain had fallen ; the streets and roads of
London glowed with white dryness, the
grass shrivelled in every enclosure and the
flowers drooped, but the trees bore up
bravely, and the fruit-barrows in the streets
were piled beyond all precedent with
cherries and currants.

Reaching Portland Place, she heard that
her father had called, and had reported with
satisfaction that he had seen a mosquito
in Hyde Park. Lady Ellen was asleep.
Elizabeth, after a pretence at a meal, went
out into the balcony, hoping to catch, in
this corner house, some little cross current
of air. An awning shaded the balcony.
Its scalloped edge hung, still as wood. It
was Friday  a Friday of anxious suspense
throughout all London  but Elizabeth
knew nothing of the anxiety around her.
She had hardly noticed that expectant
groups were gathered at street corners and
round the doors of news-rooms. But now,
as she sat, languid, she heard the still heat
broken in upon by a sharp cry. A lad,
proved with a blackly printed placard,
came up the shady side of the street, carrying
a bundle of papers, and shouting 

'' Declaration of war ! War between
France and Prussia ! "

Elizabeth started up and leaned over the
balustrade. The street had seemed empty,
yet the boy was already surrounded, and
his papers were being eagerly bought up.
Elizabeth passed quickly indoors to send
for one of them. But, as she crossed the
drawing-room, her aunt's maid came 

"

wards her from the door of it.

Oh, miss, will you come to my lady at
once, please ? " ' .

And Elizabeth passed hurriedly up, forgetting
all outer things. The man who
should have been sent for a newspaper
was sent to Kensington, for Gilbert and
Lady Mary ; and the outer turmoil became
nothing in the anxious dread of that night's
watch. Looking back afterwards, that day
seemed to Elizabeth the last in which she
ever looked on the world with hope. For
when the morning newspapers began to
be cried about the streets, there was no
longer any need of silence and wakefulness,

no further use in all the careful
preparations of the sick-room, no change
to be hoped or feared. The breath of the
new day, hardly cool, even in its dawn,
came to Elizabeth like the atmosphere of
a new and empty world. The strange
feeling of having no further motive, nothing
to keep up for, nothing to watch, made all
the present and the future a blank. Upon
that, followed an overpowering weakness 
in the fine old word which we have learned
to abandon, a heaviness, that made rest
the one good in the world. She slipped
from Lady Mary's embrace, and let herself
glide down upon a soft, long woollen rug
at her feet, and there, before her aunt
could speak to her, lay asleep.

When, at last, she opened her eyes, she
was lying on a sofa in the drawing-room ;
it was full day, but blinds were drawn down
at every window. By her, in the shadow,
sat Gilbert.

'' Ahbut what was It ? Did I fall out
of the swing ? " she murmured, looking up
at him.

Gilbert was, perhaps, the only person
who could have understood what dream
was still lingering in her mind. " Do you
feel so ill as that, Lizzie ? No, that's over,
dear, long ago. We have grown up since
then."

"Ah, yes; I remember." She closed
her eyes again. '' When I am very tired
or ill I often dream of that  the falling,
falling, as if it would go on for ever, and
seeing the swing come back upon me, and
knowing I could not stop it. Only I
thought Edward was there too."

He came in, this morning, but we did
not wake you."

*' Yes," said Elizabeth; and then her loss
returning upon her afresh, she folded her
hands over her face, and began to cry,
weakly.

'' Don't, Lizzie, don't," said her cousin,
gently. *' You will make yourself 111, you
know."

It doesn't matter now," she answered,
and the desolate tone went to Gilbert's
heart.

*' Lizzie, I want to say a word to you."

'eyes, Gilbert."

"Whoever else you love, Lizzie, whatever
else comes to you, remember this 
you will never lose me. You and I have
been brother and sister ever since the day
you were born."

Elizabeth put a hand Into his, and lay,
silent, weeping no more.

Captain Grove, coming out of the War
Office, that afternoon. In the full blaze of
a two o'clock sun, met Lawrence O'Brien,
just home from a yachting expedition, and
sunburnt almost beyond recognition.

*' Grove," said that eager young man,

linking an arm at once through his, " I
want to speak to you. I have got a question
to ask you."

Captain Grove gave a glance at the
speaker's face and found there no hint of
suspicion. As he glanced, a quick thrill
of envy shot across him. O'Brien, with
the brightness of his eyes and teeth
heightened by the contrast of his brown
skin, seemed the very incarnation of happy
youth and hope. He was dressed, too, in
the palest tint of grey, and looked the
better for a costume which Captain Grove
felt would have been fatal to himself. He
smiled, however, with all urbanity, and
Lawrence poured forth his question.

Would it suit Captain Grove to go
abroad for a month, or perhaps it might
be more  till the end of the war, in fact 
as private secretary to Sir Anthony Kelly ?
Sir Anthony Kelly was Lawrence's cousin
by marriage, and had been desirous to take
Lawrence himself.

But, bless you, I don't want to be
advanced. Poor old chap ! he thinks it
would be better if I were such another as
himself. What would I bother myself for ?
But I thought you would be just the man.
You have heard about his going, I
take it ? "

Something of it," said Captain Grove,
with official caution, covering, as he fully
believed, a far more accurate and complete
knowledge than Lawrence's own.

"He is not to have any recognized
mission, you know  a very delicate and
discreet sort of thing. Just a retired
English officer, wandering round in
foreign battle-fields to see how fighting
has changed since his young days. You
see, I might have gone, in a very natural
way, as his relation ; but I should not have
liked the business part of it  the writing
in cipher, and what not. But, you know,
the man who did it well would Q-t a great

rise out of it. Sir Anthony is to have
the choice of who goes with him, and I
spoke of you to him. Only, as I said  I
don't know  there's your marriage. You
might not like to put it off ? "

"It will have to be put off, in any case,
for Lady Ellen Darling died this morning.
I am much obliged for the suggestion,
O'Brien. I think it is very likely It might
suit me remarkably well. But, between
ourselves, and as a private Individual, I
think Sir Anthony is more likely to find
himself detained six months than one."

What ! " said Lawrence. " Do you
think the Prussians will be so hard a nut
to crack as that."

*' Perhaps I meant the French," said
Captain Grove, with a thin smile.

That Lawrence took to be a joke, and
laughed accordingly.

Then a young man coming up and
addressing him loudly by name, he parted

from Captain Grove, who walked homeward,
cogitating. From what he knew of
Sir Anthony and his mission, he thought
that such a post would suit him very well.
He also honestly thought, though that was,
of course, a secondary consideration, that
he would suit the post. The twilight of
diplomacy was an atmosphere that he
enjoyed. It flattered his vanity to feel
that he meant more than met the eye, and
knew more than those who thought to give
him news. Then he would, doubtless, be
well paid, and, to use Lawrence's expression,
he would decidedly get a rise out of
the change. His comrades of the War
Office would envy him, and take It for
granted that exceptional qualifications had
been discerned in him. Oh, It would bethe
opening to him of a new life. Perhaps
he might even reach a condition in which
his Income should be sufficient to satisfy
his desires. A visionary drawing-room

rose before him In which Elizabeth received
his guests, and to which those whom he
rated as ' the best people in London
pressed to gain admittance. It might be,
too, that Lady Ellen had made Elizabeth
her heiress. Elizabeth had never spoken
a word on that subject, and he had too
clear a vision of what he might 7io be
allowed to do, to ask. But now that point
would be settled one way or the other, and
he would know what he had to reckon
upon.

And in a week or so, he heard that
Lady Ellen had, indeed, left most of her
property to Elizabeth, who thus became
possessed of a second house in Portland
Place, and a considerable yearly income
derived from no less stable a source than
the Funds. He heard also that Lady
Ellen had discussed her arrangements
with Gilbert and his father some months
before, and that she had acted with their

VOL. II. L

full approval ; but that appeared to him too
preposterous for belief

Elizabeth went back to her father in
Burlington Street, and, there, began to
arrange her life for the next few months.
Edward was going abroad  going, he did
not deny, into possibilities of danger,
but in a position which, he took care to
explain, was a personal honour. She
resolved that she would not speak to her
father and to Gilbert of that debt till he
should be gone. That it should be paid
before she herself left London she was
quite determined. They were to go. soon,
to Willingshurst, and thence  supposing,
that is, that the difficulties of foreign travel
were not allayed by that time  to Brighton.
Already Major Glendinning was beginning
to complain that August was at hand, and
that to be in town in August was unendurable.
To all this Elizabeth looked
forward passively, feeling the days long

until she was away. Her strongest feeling,
just now, was a nervous dread lest she
should meet Orlando Sherborne, who, she
heard, was in town, busy with plans and
schemes for some watering-place on the
east coast, and deaf to the warnings of
Gilbert, who looked on the enterprise as
very ill founded. The extension of her
nerves during the last few months seemed
to avenge itself in the exaggeration of this
dread. It was literally with terror that she
went to see Millie and Gilbert. And at
last the almost inevitable meeting took
place. She was in Bond Street, waiting
in an open carriage, for Lady Mary, who
had gone into a shop ; and as she waited
she saw Orlando coming amid the stream.
He was quite unaware of her presence.
He paused to glance at an engraving in a
shop window. Her fear took suddenly a
new form. Oh, how cruel it would be if
he should pass and not see her ! But he

turned and looked up, and his face changed.
She thought he would speak, but he
merely bowed to her, and passed on. Fora
moment their eyes met ; then the stream
of the world went on again. He had
looked well, she thought, but perhaps older,
and a little preoccupied. Then, in the
flash of recognition, he had turned paler,
and she had felt herself guilty, as she
always did when she thought of him.

'' Ah, if that might have been ! " thought
Elizabeth within herself.

Then her aunt came out from the shop,
and she was driven home to Burlington
Street, whither Captain Grove was coming
this afternoon to take his farewell.

The next day, when he was well upon
his journey, and out of reach of question,
she laid before her father and Gilbert the
amount of her debt, and explained her
desire to sell out so much of her capital
as would suffice to pay it.

They looked aghast.

But how did you get this money, and
what did you want it for ? Where is it ?
What have you done with it ? You can't
have spent this sum since May."

Oh yes," said Elizabeth ; *' it is spent.
I had it ; I had it all. It was something
that I was obliged to do. I would have
told you sooner, if I had been at home  if
I had not been in Portland Place."

*' Did Grove ask you to do this ? "

'' No," said Elizabeth.

Did he know it ? "

Yes, he knew it, and he helped me.
He knew all about it, and he approved ;
but I can't tell any one else. I have made
a promise that I would not tell any one
else."

"You had no rioht to make such a
promise," said Major Glendlnning, angrily.
A girl like you ! I don't think such a
promise is binding. I think you ought to

tell me. I have a right to know what you
wanted with a lot of money like this.
Why, it is dated the very day after you
came back to England ! You found time
to see to this when your aunt was supposed
to be dying. I can't understand it."

I can't tell you about it, papa  indeed
I can't. It was not for any wrong purpose.
It was something I tad to do. I
could not help it."

"Was it something for your aunts*"
asked her father, quickly.

The possibility that it might be some
whim or some secret of Lady Ellen's,
something which she had bidden Elizabeth
pay, knowing that, as her heiress, he would
be repaid, came to him like a ray of light
among those unpleasant doubts of Captain
Grove which tended to make the future so
inauspicious.

Don't ask me," said Elizabeth ; '' I
can't tell you anything more. Only let it

be paid, please, for it is honestly due. I
had the money, and I agreed to it all."

I suppose it must be paid," said Major
Glendinning, still annoyed. '' I suppose it
was for Grove. I should like to know
what he has done with the money. I shall
never feel any confidence in him again.
No honourable man would have taken
money from you."

'' And you have no right to assume that
he did so," said Elizabeth, feeling her heart
beat quicker, and vowing to herself that
no living soul should ever know the secret
of that home-coming.

Her father looked at her, almost shaken
in his doubts again. Gilbert, on the other
hand, was more confirmed in his assurance.
He had known, from the first words, for
whom the money had been paid.

"Well," said Major Glendinning, "it is
done. But mind, Elizabeth, let me have
no more of this kind of thing. It is not

respectable ; you don't know who may
have that bill of yours."

Gilbert, after his first exclamation of
surprise, had said nothing. Nor did he,
when, presently, he was left alone with
Elizabeth, attempt any inquiry. But in
the next day or two he sought information
cautiously from other sources, and his certainty
was strengthened. On the eve of her
departure from London he found an opportunity
of speaking a few words to her,
alone.

*' Lizzie," said he, ** will you promise me
something ? "

If I can, Gilbert."

'' The next time that you want to lend
money to Captain Grove, let me know,
instead of trying a money-lender."

'' No ; I can't promise that," said Elizabeth,
turning pale. *' You ought not to
have said that to me."

'' But you can't deny it. Oh, Lizzie,

Lizzie ! if you only knew how dark your
future looks to me ! "

'* Would it be any better that I should
know it ? " she returned.

And almost with those words upon her
lips, they parted.

Gilbert held his peace towards Millie
concerning all that little episode, but
being overburdened by it, and feeling
quite sure of Orlando's discretion, poured
forth the tale to him.

I always knew he was never worthy of
her," said Gilbert, resentfully.

But she loves him ? " Orlando said.

Yes, I suppose so. It is not to be
helped. But oh ! how is it that she can
be so blind ? "

But he is spoken highly of," said
Orlando.

Oh yes ; he will never do anything
very bad. I don't suppose that he will
forge cheques, or pick locks, or do anything

to bring himself and her to any open
disgrace. I think he will, very likely, be a
successful man, and we shall be proud to
have him to dinner. But he'll never make
Lizzie happy. And if he should, her
happiness would be worse than pain."

Orlando sat silent, but hoping in his
heart that Gilbert judged falsely. Unhappiness
for her! Surely Heaven could
not so contradict itself The man to whom
her love was given could surely not be
base. And she was at Willingshurst again,
in the place where he had seen her first.

Gilbert little knew how fruitful a seed
he had planted of self-tormenting thoughts.

CHAPTER VII.

FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.

If thou wast false, more need there was for me
Still to be true."

J. R. Lowell.

The woes of France made, that year, the
prosperity of Brighton. The town was
full of French people ; almost as much
French as English was heard spoken
about the streets, and Major Glendinning,
except when an east wind reminded him,
might almost forget that he was in his
own country. It was November now.
Captain Grove was still abroad with Sir
Anthony Kelly. Letters did not come
from him very frequently, and when they
did come, they were guarded in expression.
Elizabeth understood that in the then state

of the French post-office, letters were liable
to pass under more eyes than those of the
receivers. A hint had, however, been
given in one of them that a certain morning
paper had an inkling of Sir Anthony's
being more than a mere casual traveller,
and was likely to give careful reports of
what happened in his neighbourhood.
Elizabeth was therefore attentive in her
study of this paper, and found her lover's
progress very accurately followed.

Every now and again his name was
mentioned, and always with some complimentary
reference. She began to hear
little remarks from her friends.

So Captain Grove is still at the seat of
war ? I suppose it is really his devotion
to his profession ; but it must make you
very uneasy." Or, '' I see by the intelligencer
that Captain Grove was at A. at the
time of its bombardment. He really is
most courageous." Major Glendinning,

too, began to speak in more gracious
tones of his future son-in-law. Things
were in this state when Elizabeth came
one morning upon his name, no longer in
the Foreign Correspondence, but appearing
more than once in a leading article.
Hastily she folded back the rest of the
paper and read : 

It is rumoured that Captain E. Grove,
who left this country last August, in company
with Sir Anthony Kelly, upon an unavowed,
but pretty generally understood, mission of
observation, is likely to be recalled, somewhat
abruptly, to England. No cause is
assigned for this somewhat arbitrary procedure,
but it is whispered that the
explanation lies in a difference of opinion
between the honourable baronet and his
coadjutor. Sir Anthony, whose services to
his country have, we believe, been hitherto
chiefly confined to the compression of army
estimates, finds that the recommendations

of Captain Grove would involve the
Government in the sanctioning of changes
in many trifling points which have long
demanded change. He would, for instance,
advise a new form of head-dress which
might protect, without overburdening, the
head, and would substitute for the throttling
burden of knapsack to which the
British soldier is at present subjected, a
licht and commodious havre sack. But,
says Sir Anthony, the Government stores
are already amply supplied with bushes
and with knapsacks. To replace these by
havre sacks and pickelhauben would cost
money, and to spend money might make
the Government unpopular ; and the unpopularity
of the Government might produce
a change which would deprive Sir
Anthony Kelly of his occupation, and
transfer to other hands the compression
of future army estimates. Sir Anthony, it
is very clear, understands the first duty

of a Government Commissioner  which Is
to report nothing that his superiors do
not wish to hear. Captain Grove has
attempted to fulfil his duties In another
spirit, and he must, of course, accept the
consequences. We advise him to lay the
lesson to heart, and learn to be wiser
another time."

Elizabeth read this passage, and read It
again, and could not understand it. On
the Inner sheet was, as usual, a letter from
the place of Captain Grove's present stay.
In this she found these words : 

I hear that Captain Grove, who, as
your readers will scarcely need to be told,
was the associate of Sir Anthony Kelly's
investigation tour, Is suddenly recalled to
England. No cause is assigned, but your
readers may be edified by the opinions of
an old militaire with whom I conversed on
the subject. * Parbleu, M'sleur,' said he,
taking a pinch of snuff, ' M. le Capitaine

a la vue trop claire. II voit les choses
comme elles sent, et cela ne convent point
a Sir Kelly.' Perhaps you, in England,
know more about this matter, but the
shrewd guess of the visit militaire seemed
to me worthy of attention. "

She took the paper to her father, whose
first verdict was : " All humbug, my dear,
all humbug. These newspaper fellows will
write anything." He looked at the article
again. '' I hope Grove has not been such
a fool as to fall out with Sir Anthony. It
would be very unbecoming. Sir Anthony
was, for the time being, his commanding
officer. Don't say anything to any one,
Elizabeth. Don't, above all, say anything
to. your aunt Mary."

Lady Mary and her husband were in
Brighton, drawn thither chiefly by the
fact that Ida and Maudie were there at
school. This afternoon was a half-holiday.
Elizabeth was to go with her aunt to fetch

them home. On their way the children
were taken into Mutton's. The shop was
very full, and Lady Mary found friends.
Elizabeth, standing a little away from her
aunt, heard suddenly a name spoken
behind her that drew her attention.

'' The Intelligencer, my dear ! Of course
it does. Why, it seems this Captain Grove
has been sending reports to the Intelligencer
ever since he first went out. My
husband heard of it in London, last night.
A most discreditable thing."

Elizabeth turned quite sick. She dared
not look round, lest the speakers should be
persons who might recognize her. She
stood in terror, waiting for more.

Did you ever happen to meet this
Captain Grove '. A most gentlemanly
man, my husband says  as far as manner
went  and held a high position in the
War Ofhce. I'm told, he was eno-aoed

VOL. n. M

to be married to Lady Somebody, a
beauty."

'' Oh, that will be broken off now," said
the other.

At this, Elizabeth knew that she might
turn round. She just glanced at the
speakers. They were stout, middle-aged
women, and a thousand little signs showed
her that they did not belong quite to her
own class. Had Edward's doings come
already to be so widely discussed as this ?

She was thankful to get home, away from
Aunt Mary and the girls, but as she went
in, the fear struck her that her father might
have heard. Happily, he was out.

Mrs. Bannacker was lingering, with a
concerned face, in Elizabeth's room. Elizabeth
was sure that she had read the
Intelligencer. She allowed her no opening
to speak of it, and hastened to the drawing-room.
There she sat down, utterly miserable.
She had no doubt of the truth of the

Story. She felt, inevitably, that it must
be so. It was what Edward would have
done. And now, where was he, Avhat had
become of him, and what would happen
to him ? Oh, if she only were not so
friendless and so alone !

While she sat, came a loud knock at the
door below. She trembled. Here were
visitors, and how should she receive them ?
Most likely they would know. Then she
heard a voice asking for herself, and for
one fraction of an instant fancied the voice
Orlando's.

I will go up to her," she heard again,
and knew that, of course, the voice was
Gilbert's.

'' Oh, Gilbert ! What a comfort ! " She
sprang up and ran towards him as he
came in.

Gilbert, Gilbert ! Oh, how glad I am
that you have come ! What has happened ?
What is the truth about Edward ? "

*' I am afraid it is all true, Lizzie. How-did
you hear ? Who told you ? "

I heard some people talking at Mutton's,
and I saw the Intelligencer, this
morning. But I don't understand, Gilbert.
What is it that he has done ? "

Why, look here, Lizzie. Sir Anthony
went out as a sort of agent, to watch, as far
as he could, the different peculiarities of
the two armies  to see where they failed
and where they succeeded, and in what
points their arrangements were different
from ours. There was no distinct mission
or appointment given him, because that
would rather have hampered him, and
might have led to his being wilfully deceived.
Grove went with him, as his secretary.
Of course they were both of them
bound to keep their purpose, and still more
their information, from being brought into
public notice. Now, Sir Anthony had
been annoyed for some time by the Intelligencer

publishing observations which
bore a sort of general resemblance to his
reports ; but there was nothing that could
be laid hold of till last week, when something
was published which he was certain
no one but Grove could have got hold of
So he sent to have him recalled. Well,
within two days of that, the Intelligencer
comes out with that bit of leader that I
suppose you saw. There was a great
scandal about It In London, this morning.
The tale had leaked out somehow. These
things always do. They say Sir Anthony
will be made to bring an action for libel
against \,\\Qntelligencer, but I don't think
that, myself. They will have to recall him
too, you know, for of course such an article
as that renders him perfectly useless."

Elizabeth sat silent. What was there to
be said ? She clasped her hands together,
lifted them, and dropped them again into
her lap.

At last she asked, " Where Is he, Gilbert
? "

I don't know," said Gilbert, his face
darkening a little. 'you don't want to
see him ? "

Why, I must see him. I must hear
what he says."

I consider that he has forfeited the
right ever to see you again."

Ah, but If Millie had done such a
thing  If It could have been possible 
would you have given her up ? "

Millie ! I never could have given up
Millie ; you know that. But It Is an Impossible
supposition. And besides, he Is a
man."

'' From whom you expect honesty, which
is a less Important virtue in a woman," said
Elizabeth. Then, with a deep sigh, '' I
don't believe that he would give up me,
whatever I had done. Oh, Gilbert, don't
make it harder for me to do whatever I

feel that I have to do! There are some
things in which one must walk quite alone.
Not one's best friend can help or counsel
one, any more than when one dies. And
one's love affairs are so. I must do what I
feel I must, at the time. I should be glad
if you would try and make papa understand
that I must."

*' I am sure that he will wish you to
break it off He has never felt quite easy
since he heard of that debt. Of course, he
could not help knowing whose it was."

It seems to me," said Elizabeth, rather
angrily, '' that you are all against him, without
even waiting to hear his defence."

Gilbert remained for a moment silent,
and then said, '' Most likely he will be in
London on Monday. I wish you would
give me the right to see him for you."

'* I will not give any one the right to see
him for me," said Elizabeth. ''If he does
not come here to see me, I shall go to

London, myself, to see him. But thank
you, all the same. You must not think I
don't understand how you mean to do
everything for my sake, only any defending
of me against him makes me rather
angry."

She looked up, appealingly, and won an
absent-minded smile.

Here comes your father," said Gilbert.

Oh, yes. Do stay a little, Gilbert ; I
am afraid he will be so vexed about this."

The anxious, piteous look, which had
grown frequent during the last months,
returned.

Major Glendinning came in, having
heard the whole tale, and taking for
granted that his daughters engagement
was at an end. There followed a very
painful scene. Elizabeth sat, pale and still,
hardly saying a word, but maintaining her
position, that she would not discard her
lover till she had heard his story from

himself. Gilbert's attempts at nullification
were but of little use. At last, when her
father declared that he would not suffer
Captain Grove to come to the house, she
stood up and said, moving her hands to
and fro 

Then I must go to London to see him.
If he Is not to come here, I must go to
Portland Place. It Is only right, and I
must. Don't talk to me any more ; I can't
bear It. Oh ! don't you think It's enough
by Itself ? "

With a sudden sob, she broke Into tears,
and hurried out of the room

*' If she sees him, he will talk her Into
doing anything he likes," said her father to
Gilbert.

I wish she had never seen his face,"
said Gilbert ; '' but, all the same, I think,
she Is right to let him come."

'' I wish to Heaven she had married
O'Brien," sighed Major Glendlnnlng.

'' Indeed, I wish she had," said Gilbert.
He Is not very wise, and not, perhaps, very-steady
; but he is honest and straightforward,
and his first thought would have
been to make her happy."

'rand nearly ten thousand a year," said
Major Glendinnlng. " Well, I suppose I
shall have to let him come."

Elizabeth, herself, felt no such conviction
that to see her lover would be to ensure
the continuance of her engagement. Deep
down In her heart, lay a sore and bitter
indignation against the man who had
brought disgrace upon himself and her.
The whole affair was unendurable painful
to her. She could hardly bear to recall
the words of Gilbert, and of those women
in the shop. And If, Indeed, there should
be such an action for libel as Gilbert had
spoken of, and Edward should have to
confess that he, himself, had written that
correspondence ! And it would be in all the

newspapers, and there would be articles
upon it. Oh, now, indeed, she felt the
bitterness that lies in the modern torture
of publicity. Every voice in England
would speak of it ; every soul who knew
her would knows this ; the very servants in
her friends' houses, when they opened the
door to her, would know it. She clenched
her hands, and lifted up her face with
closed eyes, towards the sky. Ah, if it
had been Orlando, he would never have
brought this upon her. She felt, by
moments, as if she hated Captain Grove.
Then rose up before her, her father's and
Gilbert's condemnation, and she felt the
balance of her soul dip on the other side.
Should all hands be against him, and hers,
too ? Oh, they were hard upon him, for,
after all, what wrong had he done tke7n ?
She, at least, must not be fickle as the
world was. She would hear him, and
make allowance, and perhaps  if she could

  forgive. She would try not to think a
single harsh thought of him until he wrote ;
as surely he would write, to-day or tomorrow.


But neither on that day nor the next did
any letter come. The greater part of a
week went by and brought no sign. These
days were days of agony. Elizabeth felt
that, as she walked in the streets, people
looked at her, and pointed her out as the
woman who had been engaged to '' that
Captain Grove, you know." Her acquaintances
spoke to her in a careful, guarded
tone, hiding something in the background of
their minds, and always, as she told herself,
observing to see how she bore it. Another
week like this would drive her mad. And
where was Edward ? Was he not coming
to her, after all ? Had all her tenderness
and her suspense of judgment been but
useless ?

This week of pain left its mark upon

her almost like the mark of a long illness.
Her cheeks grew hollow, and her eyes
large and frightened ; her hands were
restless ; she flushed and started at a
sound ; her voice had a weakened, plaintive
note. Orlando might hardly have known
her for his vision of Shrubs's Wood.

At last, one afternoon, the meeting for
which she seemed to have been looking
all her life, came. She was lying, completely
wearied out, on a sofa. She had
told Mrs. Bannacker, truly enough, that
she had a bad headache, and must be
excused from seeing any one. When,
therefore, she heard a knock, she gave
no heed, but lay still, following her own
unhappy thoughts, as before. Mrs. Ban-necker,
however, after a minute or two,
came in, bringing a folded sheet of paper.
It's Captain Grove, miss. I told him
you were unwell, and not to be disturbed,
but he begged me to give you this."

In her tone dwelt a disapproval of
Captain Grove, as decided as Major
Glendlnnlng's own.

Even she, too," thought Elizabeth.

She held out her hand, hastily, for the
paper. A few lines only were written on
it, In pencil.

Let me see you, If It Is only for a
minute. You cannot be so cruel as to
refuse me. I leave England tomorrow."

'' Ask Captain Grove to come up," she
said, lifting her eyes quietly to Mrs. Ban-necker's
; and Mrs. Bannacker was obliged,
very reluctantly, to obey.

Elizabeth rose to her feet, and stood
holding the letter In her hand. The
momentary colour and animation of her
face hid any suggestion of Illness ; nothing
was left but an ethereallzed delicacy of line
and form. Captain Grove, as he came
into the room, thought that he had never
seen any woman look so beautiful.

Lizzie ! " said he'' Lizzie ! "

He took her hand, but, wisely, dared
not kiss her.

Her hand returned no pressure. She
stood looking at him without a word, like
a dumb creature. He, too, stood, keeping
his eager eyes upon her face, and feeling,
for the moment, as if all his desire had
been attained in having sight of her again.
As usual, it was she who was forced to
speak first.

"Why have you come ? " she asked.

She felt as if this actual meeting had
shattered all the illusions of the past, and
shown the impossibility of all union between
them, for ever.

*' Why did I come ? I was obliged to
come. I think I should have died if I
had gone away and not seen you. Look
here, Lizzie ; I have done nothing but what
hundreds of men do. It is almost an
acknowledged thing. They chose to fall

Upon me, and, of course, there's no appeal.
Upon my soul, Lizzie, I believe that it is
O'Brien's doing, to get me out of your
way."

*' No  oh no," said she.
They must have known that I should
do something. What do they offer a mana
paltry thousand a year for, in such a
post as that ? And then the longing to
raise myself  to gain a position fit for

you "

No, no ; not me. Don't tell me that
you thought of me."

'' I thought of nothing but you. And
to get on good terms with a large newspaper
like that ! Lizzie, if Sir Anthony
had not chosen, in his jealousy, to ruin me,
there's no knowing what position I might
not have reached. His whole report is
my doing. He was afraid for his own
credit, that's the truth of it. And now
every man turns his back upon me, though

there's not one of them that would not have
done the same, and thought himself lucky
in the chance. And the Intelligencer threw
me over. Nobody keeps to me  nobody.
And they will make you go too. When
I come back you will be married to
O'Brien."

I shall never be married to Mr.
O'Brien. You, of all people, have no right
to say so. But what do you mean by
when you come back ' ? Where are you
going ? " Again, as she spoke, her face lost
its colour, and the lines of fear came back'
about her lips.

*' I am going out as war correspondent
to the Oppositionist. They sent me an
offer the day I came back to England.
It shows what the feelings anion e the
newspapers about the way I have been
treated. By Jove ! the man that takes
Sir Anthony's place will have cause to
repent it."

VOL. II. 7

You are going into the war again ? "
said Elizabeth, her voice falling.

*' You are not sorry, Lizzie  you are not
sorry ? Do you mean to say you care ?
Oh, if you knew what I have undergone,
I think you would care ! "

I do care. Oh, I wish you had never
gone ! "

'' You would have been married to me
by this time, if you ever meant what you
said."

She stood, growing paler and paler, and
at last, said, as in desperation, 'rit might
have been better if I had."

'* You would have gone away from me
now, even if you had."

"It never would have come upon you,
if I had. You never would have done it."

No, Lizzie, no ; you are right. I never
should have done it. Ah, if I could only
have you by me always ! If I might only
have won you, years ago, I might have

been another man by this time. Nobody
knows the best of me but you. Nobody
cares but you. And you not very much,
Lizzie  not very much."

Elizabeth, as he spoke, felt that anything
in the world would be possible
except to abandon him. She answered
slowly, white now as marble, " I don't
know, Edward. I think you are right
when you say I am cold-natured. I won't
say a word to you more than is true ; that
would be the greatest wrong to you of
all. I have felt very angry with you  no,
more than angry, divided from you  as if
we could never be anything but strangers
any more."

No, Lizzie, no ; not that."

The cry went to her heart.

*' No, but let me finish," she said,
quickly, turning to him, still with that look
upon her face of pressure from some external
fate, of some compulsion, making her,

as It were, but the voice through which an
oracle insisted upon utterance. "But now,
when you are here, when I see how everything
seems to you, I feel as if I could
no more say ' Go ' than I could kill you.
It is a things that could not be. I don't see
any happiness before me, anywhere  not
any hope. If I might die to-night, I should
thank God. But while I am alive, there
seems to be only one way. If you have
done wrong, if every one else deserts you,
it makes it more impossible that I should ;
not because it gives me any happiness, but
because it is so, and I must. I could
never forgive myself if I did otherwise.
It would haunt me, always. And yet I
know  I know  that nothing lies before
me but pain. Only, this pain is possible,
and the other is not. I suppose that is
love."

Captain Grove stood, almost frightened.
If an actress had stood and spoken before

him thus, on the stage, he would have
understood that her art had touched a
height. That a living soul should actually
work thus was out of the sphere of his conceptions.
He seemed to have come suddenly
into a region of measureless heights
and depths. Once before, in the moment
of her first acceptance, Elizabeth had
touched the spring of this same mysterious
awe. In his heart awoke the whisper,
This is not for me  not of my nature,
nor my world." For a few quick pulsations,
the doubt lived whether it would not
be better to set her free ; for the space
of a completed thought, his own personal
hope ceased to be the centre of his soul.
What could he do with a nature so all
unlike his own but stifle it, or let it fly ? If
he tried to hold It fast, would It not shrink
and perish In his hands ? For one moment,
he understood that there was a gulf between
them deeper than that of death ; he

saw before him, as in the sudden clearness
of a Lightnings flash, that the only influence
he could ever have upon Elizabeth's life
would be the influence of a blight. And
then, as the darkness comes back, swallowing
into itself the illumined view, the former
colours of thought returned. Give her up,
in the first moment when she had ever
assured him of her love ! She did not
even ask that he should give her up ; she
would hardly understand what he meant.
And if he gave her up, what should become
of him ? She was all that remained to
bim, the one step by which he might climb
back into the world from which he had
fallen. Her faith was the one link to all
that was good ; her assurance of love, the
one bond that held him to humanity. And
he wottld not be a blight upon her. He
would change ; he would learn to be like
her. No one had loved him yet, and the
future was still lone.

He took her passive hands in his, looked
at her white, despairing face, and Hated one
of her hands to his lips, murmuring, '' I'm
not worth it ; but it's my only hope."

She let her eyes sink a Httle to meet his
as he stooped.

Lizzie, I wz/l be different  I will be
good enough. Only tell me that you love
me, and that you will be true to me. Let
me have those last words to take with me'*

Oh yes, I love you. I did not think
that love was like this ; but everything is
different from what I thought. And, yes,
I will be true to you. There's no need
to make a promise ; I can't help it, as long
as you will let me."

And when the war is over, I may come
back to you, and we may be married,
Lizzie, and go away together."

'' Don't," she said, lifting her hand with
a shudder ; '' I can't look forward. Indeed,
Edward, I can't make any promise. I

could not marry you  yet ; you have
shaken all my hopes too much. More
time must go by first. But you will, you
will try to make some hope for me in my
life ? You won't make me feel that It is
all in vain, and that I have never been
able to do anything for you, after all, will
you ? You'll think of me when you are
away, and try not to do anything that I
should be sorry for, if I knew. You ask
me if I will be true to you, but oh, will
you be true to me ? Will you never be
glad that I am not there, because the things
that you are doing are not straightforward ?
I would rather scrub rooms to earn my
living than hold a good position won  yes,
as you would have won it for me. Oh,
do remember that. I am not afraid of
anything, except of being ashamed to myself.
Oh, you have made me suffer so
much in these last days  if you could only
know how much ! But that's all past.

Look, I forgive you ; let us never speak
of it again. We will begin again. I know
you will never make me suffer like that
again, Edward."

She laid her arms softly round his neck
and kissed him.

For him, tears were standing in his eyes,
and his heart swelled with such a pain ashe
had never known. He could not speak.
He held her pressed against him, and his
lips shook. Once more he kissed her, then
hastily released her, caught up his hat, and
went

CHAPTER VIII.

LEFT ALONE.

Man's affections are but the tabernacles of Canaan 
the tents of a night ; not permanent habitations even for
this hfeJ'F. IV. Robertson.

In the story of Individual lives, as in the
history of nations, the march of events is a
very irregular one. Now the procession
hurries, one occurrence treads on the heels
of another ; a month will change every
hope and plan. Now again, it loiters, and
life stands still in the same spot, languid as
death. For four years from that day when
they saw each other in New Bond Street,
the lives of Orlando and of Elizabeth
moved thus at a slackened rate. The
slow advance of change came like the

growth of moss, not to be traced in Its
coming. Elizabeth had been away from
England ever since the spring succeeding
the French war. From Brighton she had
gone with her father to the Isle of Wight.
There, as Orlando heard, she had been ill,
and in the beginning of May, her father
and she had been taken on a yachting
cruise by an old friend of Major Blending
who had recently married a young
wife. Then, as the autumn drew on, they
had settled once more at Nice, and had
been living, ever since, at a little villa on
the slope below Cites. Major Glendln-
king's health, he heard, was breaking much,
and Millie and Gilbert were sure that his
daughter would never consent to marry
and leave him. But her engagement still
held. Captain Grove, too, was abroad,
flying, like a stormy petrel, to whatever
quarter of the world was fullest of perturbation.
He had been found to have aptitudes

for the post of foreign correspondent.
Men fell easily into companionship with
him. He understood very clearly all the
lower meanings and tendencies of events,
and he had a gift of sharp writing which
was the more valuable for being unaccompanied
by corresponding sharpness of
speech. Nor had he any inconvenient store
of scruples ; he well understood how to
make a whole lie out of a half-truth, and to
suggest, by an adjective, an ugly explanation
of a fact. He had written a book of
eastern travels too, wherein he had contrived
to pay off old scores against several
holders of high military office in England.
By these means his name had come, once
more, to have a certain currency, and he
was able still to flatter himself with the
belief that he pulled at the wires of the
world's puppet-show. But in the ears of
such men as Gilbert and Orlando, his name
had ceased to ring with any sterling tone,

and It was very clearly felt that he had
fallen, and was falling still.

Orlando's own life was working Itself
out Into wider and wider activity. At
Sherborne-by-the-Sea, his schemes were
thriving ; desolation was giving way to a
gradual wave of prosperity. A railway
was now being planned, and Orlando was
among the most energetic of Its directors.
He had, himself, with considerable foresight,
bought the line of necessary land
about a year before  land of little intrinsic
value, running in most parts nearly parallel
to the flat high-road between Ipswich and
Sherborne. In his own home, too, his
voice had come to be heard with attention.
It was uplifted generally In the cause of
reform, and It was attributed mainly to his
efforts that the country had neutralized
itself at the last election by returning a
liberal as well as a conservative member.
His liberalism, though it was very ardent

in spirit, was restrained in manifestation by
many tenderness of sentiment ; it was the
liberalism of a man to whose nature even
an abuse had a certain beauty from being
old-established, and to whom it seemed
that progress, to be stable, must be slow of
growth, like the oaks of his own home.
Thus it happened that even the most conservative
among his neighbours bore him
no abiding grudge, justly remembering that
he was but young, and that, if the opportunity
were left to him of connecting himself
by marriage with the wiser party, he
too might become wise. Of this opportunity,
however, he failed to avail himself; there
was no woman in Sherborne whose image
could efface Elizabeth's. His father sighed,
sometimes, within himself, when he saw the
figure of the young man moving solitary
among the old trees. To him it was
significant that Orlando had learned to
avoid London as much as he once sought

it. Father and son had never spoken to
each other, a second time, on the subject
of Elizabeth, but often their eyes met, and
each knew what was in the thoughts of the
other. And if not joy, tranquillity, at least,
had come back to Orlando's heart. The
world was full of interests for him, and
while his father lived, he felt no solitude
of soul.

But in the winter of the fifth year from
Millie's marriage, there came a day when
Orlando sat, alone, looking at his father's
empty chair, and knowing that his path
henceforward must be companionless. It
was the second and the greatest sorrow of
his life ; but it was not, like that earlier
loss, an influence which changed the whole
direction of his life. This was loss ; the
other was loss and disruption, too. His
course received no outward shock ; he
followed the same ends, worked at the
same works, and was in effect the same

man, rendered only by grief, a little graver,
a little stiller, a little less capable of smiles.
The solitude of single life, which may be
twenty years in overtaking a man endowed
with many relatives, had come upon Orlando
early. Millie's life belonged to a
different world from his ; Millie's children
were but infants. Even Rosa no longer
spent her Christmases at Sherborne, but
was with Millie in London. Happily for
himself, he was busy with many plans that
brought him into contact with his neighbours,
and gave him occupation for thought
and leisure. He was planning, just now,
for instance, the proper draining of certain
marshy pasture lands, which had hitherto
lain under water for two or three months
in every year. Among these labours, came
a letter to him from Millie, begging him,
for a very particular reason,' to come and
see her. Millie and Gilbert were, at this
time, living in that house in Portland Place

which had been Lady Ellen's. This, again,
had been, at first, a pain to Orlando. The
trees were at their greenest, and the first
beauty of summer made the world young.
June was for once deserving its two
epithets of breezy and leafy at the same
time. Orlando, as he drew near the house,
observed his sister watching for him from
that balcony where Elizabeth had been
startled, on the night of her aunt's death,
by the first news of war. She met him ashe
came in, led him eagerly upstairs, and
shut him into her favourite little sittings


My dear Orlando, I have a piece of
news for you. Somebody you know is
engaged."

Not Charlie yet, I should think," said
Orlando.

'' No, not Charlie, yet," said that young
gentleman's mother. '' Mr. O'Brien. Now
guess who to."

VOL. r. , o

'' Oh, that's not difficult," he answered,
turning away. '' To Miss Glendinning, I
suppose." Then, with a great effort, " You
need hardly have brought me up, I think,
for the sake of telling me that."

My dem'- Orlando ! " exclaimed Millie,
almost with indignation. " Why, that was
long ago ; before I was married. That is
all over, ages ago. Besides, you know
very well that Elizabeth will never give up
that wretched Captain Grove. No, but
Rosa."

Rosa ! " said Orlando, turning quickly
round to face his sister, and speaking in a
voice of complete amazement.

'' Well, why not ? " she asked, smiling.

*' Oh no ; why not, indeed } Only I had
never dreamed of such a thing."

'' Are you  displeased at it ? " said she.

''No, no. I think, as far as I can think
yet, that it is a very good thing for Rosa."

I did think; once' said Millie, looking

down, '' that you and Rosa might some
day have married."

*' No, MilHe, no ; that could never have
been. I am very fond of Rosa, as I might
have been of a Httle sister of my own, but
that could never have been."

Then you are not at all disappointed ? "
said she, lifting up her eyes, rather curiously,
to his.

Not one atom."

Millie, after a little interval of silence,
asked again, " Do you never mean to
marry, Orlando ? "

When I find the right woman  if she'll
have me," he answered, and turned their
conversation back to Rosa.

By-and-by Rosa herself came in, blushing
to the temples and hanging back a little ;
made shamefaced by the memory of
thoughts to which she trusted that Orlando
had no clue. And, indeed, nothing was
more remote from his thoughts than the

Idea that he could ever have been the
central idol of a young girl's dreams.

Later in the afternoon, Lawrence too
appeared. To Orlando's eye, there was
scarcely any outward change in him. The
bright, sudden smile, the flash of eyes and
teeth, the frank, confiding tone and irresistibly
persuasive accent, carried him back
to the days when they had met in this
room before, and when he had almost
hated Lawrence. He, himself, felt ten
years older than the Orlando of those
days ; the whole aspect of the world was
different, graver, deeper, more strenuous
than then. Yet this young Irishman, who
had gone through the same experience and
the same sorrow, had emerged, saddened,
able to feel a new love, and to shape his
hopes to a new course of life. And his
love was real. His eyes hung upon Rosa ;
his speech turned itself to her : not the
dullest observer could have failed to understand
that he loved her.

Orlando was sitting, the next morning,
glancing at a newspaper, and haunted, in
spite of himself, by the memories belonging
to the room. Rosa was moving to and fro,
busy among Millie's flowers. Presently
came from her lips the name in Orlando's
thoughts .

You remember Miss Glendinning,
Orlando ? "

Yes, Rosie, I remember Miss Glen-dining."


You know," said Rosa, pausing and
turning towards him, but still looking down
among the flowers, " it was through her
that this first came to be."

This ' was, of course, her engagement
  the one event of her world.

*'Ah!" said Orlando, in the lowest of
undertones.

*' I had always liked her, you know, at
Sherborne ; and when they were talking of
her, one day, here, I said how I had half

worshipped her  as one does some people,
you know  and how dear she was in all her
ways. And that was the first thing that
made Lawrence take any notice of me."

Orlando sat, looking up, attentive.

She soon continued. '' Long ago, he had
felt about her, just the same. And you
can't forget those things altogether  I
mean, the person is always different."

She coloured, and stammered a little.

Yes, always different," Orlando assented.


So, after that, he began to like me.
And I used to like him to talk about her,
and how she used to be. But I didn't
think anything, you know. I don't think
either of us had any idea. Only, so it
came. And I thought, perhaps, if you
knew him then, you might wonder, and
you might not understand. Because,
Orlando, though he did love her first, it is
not true that the first love is always best.

He says so. He says that I am more to
him now than she ever was, and that love
that is only on one side never can be quite
the same."

She had drawn nearer, and stood, facing
her cousin, defying him, as it were, to
doubt her lover's affection.

'' Is it so, Rosie ?" said Orlando, with a
sigh. " Perhaps it may be. I am not
learned in these things. But I do know
one thing, and that is that he loves you
now. "

'' Oh, I am glad to hear you say that,"
she answered, smiling and delighted.
The other is all over  quite. I quite
understand all about it."

*' I am glad that he should have told
you ; it is much better."

'' Do you suppose," she said, rather
loftily, "that there could be anything
hidden between us ? "

She shook her curls and turned back,
smiling, to her flowers.

Orlando glanced down once more at the
newspaper on his knee. A longing rose
in his heart, checked by a dread of self-betrayal.


By-the-by, where is Miss Blending
? " he asked at last, keeping his eyes
upon the column.

'\ At Nice still," said Rosa. '' They stay
there always ; Major Glendinning likes no
other place."

** She is not married, then ? "

*' No, I don't think so. Her father has
been so ill. Some friends of Lawrence's
who met her there in the winter say that
they believe she is to be married this
summer."

'' And leave her father ? "

Oh no ; I don't think that. Captain
Grove would live there too, I suppose. I
believe he is generally there, or else at
Monaco."

'* I thought he did foreign correspondence
for some paper ? "

Oh no, not now. Lawrence says he
quarrelled with the Oppositionist. I don't
think he does anything."

"And lives at Monaco ? " thought Orlando.
He sat looking down at the newspaper,
seeing not a word.

Presently Rosa passed out of the room.

He stood up and clasped his hands
before his eyes. " To be married this
summer  to that man ! Surely, surely it
would have been better if she could have
loved me ! "

Unconsciously, the ground of his sorrow
was slowly shifting ; grief and sympathy
for her were taking the place of acute
personal regret.

Rosa came, singing, along the balcony
from the window of the next room. He
went forward to meet her, calling up a
smile.

'' Millie wants to know what are your
plans for the day," said she.

'* I have to make a call in Gower Street
upon an artist friend of mine, who has just
come home from Rome with his young
wife. Except for that, my day is at your
and her disposal. Is Millie there ?"

He, too, came out upon the balcony, and
stepped into the other room.

Millie and Rosa agreed, when he had
gone out, that he was looking particularly
well, and seemed more cheerful.

The artist whom he was groin to visit

o o

was, of course, Duncannon  Duncannon,
comparatively prosperous, and the happy
husband of Julia Cash. They had been
home from Rome, about a fortnight, and
were staying for the present in Gower
Street, with Mrs. Cash. Orlando felt, ashe
walked thither, that all his friends were
marrying, and that, as years went on, he
should be left the only solitary man.

Changes had come upon this household,
too, since the days when Duncannon had

first brought him thither. Silvia had been
married, and was now a widow, Having, wide
her two Httle children, under her mother's
roof. Cecily was still Miss Cash ; and
Viola, it must be supposed, had by this
time lost her right to be called ' little
Viola.'

The door was opened to him by the
same middle-aged servant who had always
opened it to him before. From the diningroom,
into which he had generally been
ushered, came the monotonous, repeated
sounds of piano-tuning. She led him a
little farther along the passage, and admitted
him to a room that looked out on
greenness. Fresh air from a garden came
in through the open window, and In a tall
flower-pot stood a little palm tree. At a
table by the window was seated a young
girl with books and papers before her,
writing. At the moment when the door
was opened, her face was lifted up, as if she

were seeking in her memory for a word,
and the hand that held the pen had just
dipped it, with a motion like the stooping
to drink of a bird, into the inkstand.

Orlando's mind was carried back, at once,
to the melancholy day when he had seen a
little girl with a strap ful of books emerge
from this house, and he knew that this
must be Viola. Her childish face had
developed rather than changed. She had
not the pensive charm of her sister Silvia,
but she was fresh, graceful, and full of life ;
bright-haired, clear-eyed, tall, and straight
as a lance. In seeing her, you received
not so much the impression of her face as
of her look  the candid, intelligent gaze
which could have belonged neither to
falsehood nor to folly.

Mr. Sherborne, miss. Do you know
whether Mr. Duncannon is in ? " said the
servant.

*' No, he is not, but he soon will be,"

she answered, rising, with a frank, pleasant
smile. " Please sit down, Mr. Sherborne.
Anne, will you tell mamma that Mr. Sher-borne
Is here ? " Then, turning again to
Orlando, " I must Introduce myself."

Indeed, It Is quite unnecessary," said
he. ' I think, if I had met you, anywhere
else, I should have known that you must
be Mrs. Markwick's and Miss Cash's
sister."

She smiled again, and said, " I am o-\d
to meet you at last. Harry has gone to
the Flaxman gallery, but as that closes
at four, it cannot be long, at the longest,
before he comes in."

*' Is he intending to stay in London
now ? "

'* Yes ; Julia and Silvia have gone up
this afternoon to Havelock Hill, to look
at a house."

Mrs. Cash came in.

Mr. Sherborne," said she, " Harry will

be delighted to find you here when he
comes in. I don't think he knew that you
were in London."

Her kindly tone was In Itself an assurance
of welcome ; her clear eyes noted at
once the mourning of his dress, and the
friendly clasp of her hand was full of
sympathy.

'' I came up, yesterday," said Orlando,
and I am going back on Monday ; but I
hoped I might be able just to catch him
for half an hour."

"He was asking about you, the other
day, but It was so long since we had
seen you that we could not tell him
much."

My work lies mostly out of London,
you see," said Orlando.

Yes, of course. We hear every now
and then of your labours at Sherborne-by-
the-Sea. I suppose my grandchildren will
live to see your statue erected there, in

the days when it has become a second
Brighton."

"Mr. Sherborne thinks of George IV.
on the Steine,and is not quite sure whether
he desires the honour," said Viola.

Orlando laughed, and confessed that the
royal founder of Brighton had indeed been
in his thoughts.

These are the drawbacks of celebrity,"
said Mrs. Cash. " I often wonder whether
many sensitive persons are turned away
from the paths of ambition by the portraits
in the illustrated papers."

That would make a suitable question
for the mock debating club that Cecily
talks of," said Viola. " Has the influence
of portraits in illustrated papers tended,
on the whole, to stimulate, or to check, the
ambition of celebrity ? "

And when some conclusion had been
come to on that point," suggested Orlando.
you might open the further inquiry

whether the result was more advantageous
or disadvantageous to the world."

- Only I thought," said Mrs. Cash, "that
it was of the essence of debating societies
that they never did come to any conclusion."


Viola looked up and laughed, as if her
observations rather coincided.

Is that true of German discussions too,
then ? " asked her mother. For Viola had
lately come home from a two years' stay
abroad.

'' Of ours, at least. We never, I think,
convinced anybody but ourselves. And it
really is strange to see how much one's
own argument strengthens one's own
opinion."

'' Yes, I remember observing that, at
college," said Orlando.

And you may notice the same thing
in parliament," added Mrs. Cash. '' How
many votes do you suppose are the results
of any speech ? "

'' Must we think, then," said Orlando,
' that argument has no power of leverage
at all ? That would be a melancholy conclusion."


Not of immediate leverage, perhaps 
here in England, at least  but rather a
vegetable force that pushes its way up
when it has lain long enough germinating.
If argument seldom drives a man from his
already occupied position, it very often
may, and does, affect the line of his next
advance."

Let us, therefore," said Orlando, smiling,
*' continue to argue, and comfort ourselves
with believing that our unconvinced
hearers are carrying away the germs of
conviction in their minds, in spite of themselves."


"It Avould indeed be a comforting
belief," said Viola. 'only it would not
do to preach it, would it ? or your listeners
might keep watch and pull up the first

VOL. II. P

sprouts. Hark ! surely I hear Harry-coming

in.

She went quickly into the passage, and
brought back Duncannon and Cecily.

'' Talk of the sun " said Duncannon.

I have been inquiring whether anybody
could tell me anything of you. I would
have cut short my Saturday's Flaxman-worship
if I had known you were here."

I feel honoured. So you have actually
been in Rome, and have succeeded in
tearing yourself away to come home
again,"

*' It is so. ' Like him that travels, I
return again.' You don't properly appreciate
the pleasure of travelling, unless you
put in an interval of staying at home. Is
Julia back yet, Viola } "

Not yet."

*' That's a pity. We have had a fine
time, Sherborne. I have never done such
good work as this last year  never."

*' Have you any of it accessible ? I
should very much like to see it."

'' Oh yes. Where's that portfolio of
mine ? The canvases are packed away."

I'll find it," said Viola, and went
lightly away.

'rit is a sad thing," said Cecily, *'to
observe how much more helpless even
than he is by nature, a man becomes
when he marries."

The inferior nature always does, you
know, Cecy, when it is associated to a
superior one," her brother-in-law answered,
with a serious air of mock-humility.

Then Viola, dragging in a large portfolio,
rested it on a chair and opened it.

Duncannon and Orlando drew near.
Mrs. Cash and Cecily presently followed,
curious to know which drawings were most
approved. Orlando, interested as he was
in the sketches, had yet enough attention
free to remark the pleasant group formed

by the mother and the two daughters, and
to note the quick interchange of look and
smile amonof them, indicative of so full
an understanding that words were hardly
required. Cecily's arm was linked through
Viola's, and the nearness of their faces,
leaning together as they looked, emphasized
the likeness and the unlikeness of the
two. They reminded Orlando oddly of a
russet and a pale-checked apple. Cecily
had a certain abruptness of speech and
thought, a shrewd and quaint bluntness
that betrayed itself in her appearance.
The dress of the sisters differed very little,
yet Cecily's had something uncompromising,
something a little defiant and
obtrusively reasonable, which in Viola's
was absent. Her bright, hearty smile was
as frank as Viola's, but not, perhaps, quite
as sweet, and her voice, when she was
moved, could ring hard. It seemed to
Orlando that it would have been more

natural if It had been Cecily who had just
come home from Germany, and also that
there were points in which she appeared
like the younger sister of the two. As
for Viola, she was a surprise to him from
which he could not easily recover. He had
never chanced to see her again, since that
day when her unconscious, childish smile
had deepened the arrows at his heart, and
he had thought of her always as preserving
something of the child ; as being distinctly
the youngest of the sisters, with the vivacity
and the dependence of youth. Instead of
that, here was a serene and clear-eyed
young woman, intelligent and self-reliant,
very evidently able, girl as she was, to
discern her own path of life and walk in
it, firmly, without any need of support. He
could not help thinking, as he walked
homeward, that something which now, in
Millie and Rosa, was a little wanting might
perhaps have been developed by the atmosphere

In which these girls had learned
to breathe. Then he remembered his own
ignorant condemnation of a woman who
could lecture, and blushed a little for the
arrogance of his youth.

The next morning, being Sunday, he
accompanied Millie, Gilbert, and Rosa to
the fashionable place of worship which
they habitually attended. It was a chapel
painfully ugly to the eyes of a man accustomed
to look up, Sunday after Sunday,
through arches of veritable early Gothic.
The congregation, however, was of a very
different calibre from that of Sherborne.
Orlando noted, as the slow streams poured
in, face after face full of thought and intelligence
 keen eyes, deeply lined brows,
and well-set mouths. This was not exactly
the fashionable congregation for which he
had looked. The simple service was conducted
solely by one elderly and earnest-voiced
man ; and the singing was imperfect

enough to jar very much on Orlando's
ears. But the sermon seemed to bespoken
out of his own soul. This was
no longer the second-hand formalism of a
Sunday's sermon, clothed in a scriptural
diction quite apart from daily life and
speech, but the true and living utterance
of one man's deepest thought and faith ;
individual, full perhaps of idiosyncrasies,
not acceptable by all, but honest, genuine,
-and fervent, and eloquent in speech
through very lucidity of thought. To
Orlando, it was a draught of deep refreshment,
strengthening and invigorating; a
distinct epoch in the gradual growth of his
own system of thought. On the steps of
the church, in coming out, he met Mrs.
Cash, Silvia, Cecily, and Viola.

What a magnificent sermon ! " said he,
full of his own delight in It, and feeling
.sure of sympathy.

'' I saw that you were enjoying it," said

Mrs. Cash. " We were sitting almost
above you, in the gallery."

'' Does he always preach like that ? "
asked Orlando.

'' Who can answer such a question ? "
said she, smiling.

'' Oh no, not always," said Cecily.

'' But always something worth thinking
about, and never anything ignoble," said
her mother.

Then they parted, and Mrs. Cash, as
she walked with her daughters towards
Gower Street, said, '' I like that young
man, Sylvie ; I always did." And she
sighed, thinking of the little, dark-haired
son who might have been of about Orlando's
age now, if he had lived.

Orlando, too, spoke of his friends as he
walked home ; but Millie s carefully veiled
questions could not bring to light a decided
preference for any one of the sisters, and
the suspicion which had arisen in her mind
began to subside again.

The next morning took him back to his
ordinary course of life at Sherborne. The
little worlds, that had touched each other
for a day, divided again, and wandered
each on its own orbit as before.

CHAPTER IX.

new-year's day at cities.

Nothing is more deeply punished than the neglect of
those affinities by which alone society should be formed."
Pierson.

Another interval had gone by of six
months' length. It was the first day of a
new year. At Nice, the sky was bluer
than in an English June, and the oranges,
just ready for gathering, hung by hundreds
on the boughs. Elizabeth had gone out
from the little Villa Nalli, which had been
for four years her home, and had left word
that if Captain Grove should call, he might
be told she was going up to the Roman
amphitheatre. She walked that way, slowly
thinking of many things as she walked 

of many things, but of none joyful. It
was a fine day, cloudless, almost as a
matter of course, and her path up the hill
was edg-ed with greenness and with flowers.

o o

The old circus lay solitary under the blue
sky ; from the sea came up a light, cool
breeze laden with the perfume of the
violets that now were sweetening every
nook and cranny of wall. Elizabeth went
forward slowly, and leaving the road,
walked round the outer encircling wall.
All its interstices were full of green life.
A few grey olive trees, wrinkled as with
extreme old age, and showing darkened
fruit between their leaves, seemed harmonious
to the place enough  metamorphosed
ancients guarding their old haunts.
She sat down upon a broken step, where,
eighteen hundred years before, spectators
had sat to witness many a martyrdom.
The fashions of martyrdom change ; our
modern agonies are for the most part slow.

To-day it was Elizabeth's turn to look upto
the pitilessly blue sky and wonder
when her pain would be at an end, and
peace would come. Here was another
year ; her youth was passing from her ; her
beauty, she told herself, diminished day by
day ; her once healthy strength dwindled ;
even this much-vaunted, exhilarating
climate could not drive off her constant
langour of body and depression of soul.
She had no disease that could be diagnosed,
no more than the plant has when, moved
to a new soil, it dies. It was merely that
the conditions in which she could have
flourished healthily were wanting, and her
life drooped.

Her eyes wandered over the amphitheatre,
and her mind went back to those
other Roman relics at Sellingham. Again
rose before her the inscrutable face of the
Juno with its arrested smile, half mocking
and half sad, and the Juno seemed to her

like an Impersonated irony of Fate. How
near she had been to happiness, If she had
but understood, that day ! Her memory
lingered, with a strangely blending pity for
herself and him, upon Orlando. Him she
might have made happy, to the fulfilment
of her own life too. For Edward she
seemed to have been but a downward
influence. The thought of her seemed to
have acted as the impelling motive of
his every falling step. To-day, on the
threshold of a new year, she resolved to
make one last attempt to set their relation
right, or else to break apart from It forever.


Slowly, walking with a tread less firm
than It used to be. Captain Grove came up
the hilly road. Elizabeth had ascended
again to the wall of the amphitheatre, and
saw him approaching. Why should the
day of her first promise come up before
her so vividly ? The background of

English trees closed in across the blues of
sky and sea ; the dead feelings of the past
rose up like pale ghosts from a world as
remote from her to-day as that old world
was, among the ruins of which she sat.

The same man," says the Greek proverb,
" washes not twice in the same
stream." Nor do the same two human
souls meet a second time, unaltered. This
mystery of growth within identity is the
groundwork of all human hopes and fears,
for individuals as for masses ; and in the
meanwhile, is the groundwork also of a
prison-house for half the finer souls of the
world. The bondage of the soul within
the body is not harder than the bondage,
through the belief of others, to a self which
is no long-er ours. The nature outQrows
its garments, but those who remember the
lesser days expect always to see the
lengthened arm return to the limits of its
sleeve. We are bound, as Tulliver was, by

the myriad hair-lines of false belief which
once were, perhaps, true enough : the
position of Tulliver's hair was natural ; the
Lilliputians did but fix each thread where
it lay. But motion is natural too, and
when, following the law of nature, he tries
to move, then, giant as he is, the agony of
wrenching from this multiform, petty
bondage will be strong enough to hold
him down.

Elizabeth felt herself thus fettered by
the thoughts, deeds, and words of her past
things that had, indeed, bloomed once,
but were now only husks, fallen away from
the germ of a new growth. But now, she
told herself, she would break free from
bondage, even though the roots of her life
should be left behind. She sat still, and
suffered her lover to come up to her.
Years and wanderings had left their mark
upon him too. The line of his constant
smile had grown to a furrow ; his hair was

thinner than of old, and more distinctly
black ; his eyes wearier and sunken ; about
the whole man hung an indefinable air of
deterioration. It was not in the economy
of poverty that this change showed itself.
Captain Grove had no more left off wearing
the most expensive coats and gloves than
he had left off travelling first-class and
smoking the best cigars. Nor was it to
be noted in any undue signs of age. The
man's face was a little worn, his hand
thinner and wrinkled, the throat sinews
a little more distinctly marked within the
immaculate shirt - collar ; but these are
changes which come also to the prosperous
and upright. There was about him some
alteration subtler than these, something
which would have made an hotel-keeper
receive him with distrust, and would have
restrained the prudent from playing cards
with him. The change, familiar to Elizabeth
by slow process, struck her to-day as a

whole. If she was changed, surely he was
changed yet more. Her promise had been
given to a man in whom seemed no
possibility of such a development as this.

A happy new year to you," said he,
and, as he said it, kissed her negligently.
'' I brought up a bouquet with me, but
left it at the villa with Mrs. Bannacker, to
be put in water."

Thank you," said Elizabeth ; and then,
'' Do you really wish me to have a happy
year ? "

Of course I do."

His dulled eyes began to grow alert.
What, he asked himself, was her meaning ?

Then," she said, turning her eyes upon
him, '' it must not be a year at all like the
last, or the one before it, or the one before
that."

What do you mean, Lizzie ? "

I mean that I can't, I can't, go on as
we have been doing. What is the use of

VOL. IT. Q

it ? I am only a drag upon you, keeping
you from the life that you like best  or,
rather, not keeping you. I know well
enough what you do when I don't see
you

His eyes opened more intently; a look
of alarmed question came into his face.

'' You go to Monaco, and you play and
make money, and spend it in supper-parties
and wine, and mix yourself up
with all the people who make a gambling
place disreputable. Oh, I know. No,
you need not be afraid. I am not going
to urge you to be different. ' Can the
leopard change his spots ? ' I have given
up that idea long, long ago. Go, go your
way, and leave me to mine."

She had spoken vehemently, but not
with violence, in the tone rather of conviction
than of passion.

Oh, that's it, is it ? " said Captain
Grove. 'you think I am not worth

keeping on  eh ? Not so profitable an
investment as I was six years ago ? "

Not a very profitable investment forme
at any time' said she, coldly, but with
a light in her eye and a slight proud raising
of all the lines of her fissure.

Captain Grove was silent. Such success
as he had, at various times, won was mostly
due to his faculty of opportune silence.
Elizabeth found herself forced to look up.

'well?" said she.

Well ? Do you expect me to say, ' I
wish you good morning, my pretty maid,
like the man in the rhyme, and lay myself
open to the same retort ? Or do you want
to hear what is in my mind ? "

'' I want nothing," Elizabeth answered,
rising to her feet, and feeling herself chilled
by an unaccountable alarm, like that vague
terror which comes sometimes to fill the
stillness of a solitary noonday. " I suppose
I wanted to know that you understood

and accepted. Then here we part. Goodbye."


He, still sitting on the amphitheatre wall,
neither looked up, nor took her hand, nor
answered. But suddenly, as she moved
to go, he flung himself towards her, and
reaching upwards, caught the hem of her
mantle.

No, we don't. Stop."

She stood still, consenting to listen, but
Implacable.

'' Listen," said he.

She remained standing, waiting for his
words, which were slow In coming.

'' Look back to six years ago. Think of
what I was then. You were very ready
to say ' yes ' to me  almost at the first
word. What has changed me ? You 
you. Was it for my own sake that I
wanted to be richer ? No, but that I
might provide more fitly for you. What
made my uncle throw me aside ? He told

me, In so many words, because I had
committed the folly of engaging myself to
a woman who had neither wealth nor influence.
It was a folly  and it has been
punished, heavily enough. But I loved
you : you don't know what that means. I
might have freed myself and had another
chance, but I loved you. I'm not perfect.
I have not your happy coldness of heart.
I drink, you say, and play. Yes, but what
is it that drives me to anything that will
make me forget the present, if only for an
hour } Oh, you are hard upon me, Elizabeth.
You always, always were. Go  go.
I have grown to be but a poor wretch, and
you are beautiful enough still to get a
place in the world's race. I ought to have
known better than to think a woman's
promise would hold when a man was
down."

He released his hold of her dress and
dropped his face away from her, upon his
arms.

Elizabeth stood irresolute. She longed
to be away, and yet she could not harden
her heart to go.

Suddenly looking up, he said, '' I shall
fall lower  I shall sink. There will be
nothing left for me. But remember this
as long as you live : my ruin lies at your
door. If I had never seen you, or if you
had loved me as some women do, I might
have been another man. You have been a
curse to me, a temptation, from the beginning
; and now, when you were my last
support, you go."

Still Elizabeth was silent. She dreaded,
with a sick dread, to slip back into that
hopeless gulf from which she had vowed
to herself to force her way ; and yet, if she
were now pitiless, she felt that an accusing
shadow would never depart from her side.
She could not go, and yet she could not
speak. If only fate would intervene and
end their meeting without another word !

The long moments lengthened. He had
again dropped his face. Now, once more
he suddenly looked up  to the wide blue
this time, instead of to her  exclaiming
with a low, inarticulate cry 

I have played and lost. It is done."
'' No, no," cried Elizabeth. " No,
Edward."

And, breaking into violent tears, she
sank down beside him on the wall and
suffered him to catch her in his embrace,
and heard him, through her sobbing, call
her his anoel and his salvation. Presently
her tears were wept out, and she raised
herself a little from him. Her passion had
not reddened, but had blanched her face,
and had left its mark as a storm that
exhausts, not as one that refreshes. Her
momentary self-abandonment had passed
too ; she could but look on to the future
with a blank despair. It was no use to
speak, no use to complain or to entreat.

He would remain what he had been, and
the days to come would be like the days
behind.

Lizzie," said he, with the old suave
accent returning, '' it is the indecision that
makes everything so wretched. Why not
put away all hesitation, and marry me at
once ? "

How could I ?" she answered quickly,
'' with papa ? "

You were willing to leave him, four
years ago."

''He was not so ill then. No, that is
indeed impossible."

'* You never mean to marry me, Elizabeth.
You may as well say so at once."

She rose up from his side, growing tall
above him.

'' I don't know that I ever do," she
answered. '' I don't know. My life seems
too hard for me. It is so tangled. I
won't be bound. I will never promise

anything again. It is nonsense to talk of
marrying. You know perfectly well that
we cannot marry ; we should not have
enough to live upon. If you are tired of
waiting for me, you are free."

He, too, rose, and stood facing her.

But if I had money enough  if my
uncle died  what then, Elizabeth ? It is
nonsense to play fast and loose like this.
Would you marry me then ? "

*' I suppose I should  I suppose I should
have to do," she answered slowly.

He turned from her with a muttered
curse.

And you wonder that I am glad to try
and forget my life ! " he exclaimed. " I
have lost everything for you, and you say
you ' suppose you would have to do.'
What made you say ' yes ' to me at the
beginning ? "

Oh, I don't know," said Elizabeth.
If I could only have known ! And now

I am bound, and if I break from you I
shall always blame myself; and to go on
like this is no use, but only a torment tous
both. Let me go, Edward ; you would
be better without me."

Lizzie, Lizzie, I should be ruined
without you. If only you could love me a
little more. If only you could put away
that hard, cold pride that drives me wild,
I could do anything, or be anything. Look
at me as if it pleased you to see me, Lizzie.
Try and make me happy, and I will do
whatever you like."

Ah, but will you ? I have hoped so
often and so often, and it has always been
the same. I don't know that I can begin
to hope again."

'' You have no trust in me, Lizzie."

She only looked up. What was the use
of saying to him, " Is that my fault ? "

Well," she said, drawing a weary sigh,
we are to begin again, then."

In a new year," said Captain Grove.
Kiss me, Lizzie, and wish me a happy-one."


I do, most earnestly," she answered, as
she Hated up her face ; and he, for the
moment, felt that she was indeed his angel,
whom it would be easy to follow.

They went down together to the Villa
Nalli, and spent the rest of their day
together. Many acquaintances came to
make new-year's visits. Captain Grove
seemed to have called up his old self from
the past, and Elizabeth could feel some
slight echo of her remembered wonder at
his never-failing adaptability of speech and
tone. To herself came back a faint afterglow
of happiness. Perhaps, after all, her
life might come to be endurable. She
must try ; she must do more for Edward.

As they parted, she said to him, '' Come
up again, tomorrow."

He answered with a smile and nod, and

walked home, meditating how best to evade
the appointment. Lizzie must understand
that he could not be tied to the Villa Nalli.
He could foresee the sort of hold she was
desirous to take upon him. He would have
to go, tomorrow  it would not do, after this
morning's scene, to stay away altogether 
but he would escape as soon as possible,
and he would not endure to be questioned.

Elizabeth, however, awoke the next
morning to find herself paying for that
painful scene the price of an agonized
neuralgic headache, and lay, unable to lift
her head from the pillow, or to bear the
sound of a footstep in the room.

Captain Grove, when he heard that this
was so, felt like a schoolboy at an unexpected
holiday. He betook himself to his
favourite resorts, and spent an evening of
enjoyment, all the sharper in its zest for
yesterday's good resolutions.

CHAPTER X.

THE NEW YEAR AT Overborne.

For all Time's sickle hath gone over you,
You are Orlando still."

Dekker.

On that same New-year's Day, Orlando
was walking about the roads at Sherborne,
between fields of frost-hardened snow.
He had wandered up to the favourite
place of his childhood, the ruined castle,
built by vaguely traced ancestors of his
own. Turning from that, he leaned a moment
on the stile, and looked down upon
the village and his own home. The top,
only, of the tower showed over the snow-laden
trees, answering to the gilded steeple-vane
of the church. Between these two

points lay the whole story of his life. No
alteration had come to them since he had
looked at them from this place as a child.
But to him they were changed, and were
changing still, year by year, with the growth
of his own life's story. The Orlando who
stood looking at them to-day was no
longer the Orlando whom Elizabeth Glen-dining
had known. A hundred little
differences, light footsteps left by circumstance,
divided the new self from the old.
Outwardly, the change was written in the
growth from youth to manhood. There
was no trace remaining now of boyishness,
and but little of what Lady Ellen Darling
had called " Mr. Sherborne's graceful melancholy."
The whole face and figure had
strengthened ; the shoulders were broader;
more of energy and decision dwelt in eye
and mouth ; in every glance and motion
was an indefinable air of proprietorship.
A stranger, looking at him as he stood by

the Stile, might have said safely, "A man
accustomed to walk on his own land."
And watching the softened lines of the
mouth, and a quiet sorrow in the eyes, he
might perhaps have hazarded the guess,
'' A man who has lost a young wife or a
child." This saddening of face came now
as his eyes passed from the first point to
the second. The tower recalled, indeed,
a memory of Elizabeth, but it came no
longer with the sharp pain of a new renunciation,
but with the soft regret which time
sweetens. But the churchyard trees brought
back a nearer and a deeper grief. Looking
there he sighed, and felt his life left lonely.
In the same moment, came a rush, a
rustle, a quick scattering of the light, dry
snow, and a warm, soft touch nestling
under his hand. Looking down with a
quick smile, he met the inquisitively sympathetic
eyes of a great black collie, half
jealous of the thoughts that held his

master's gaze fixed upon the distance.
Orlando drew his hand caressingly over
the dog's head, and the two took their way
down the hill together.

The few foot-passengers had each a
smile and a new-year's greeting for Orlando.
His popularity here in his native
place was great, in spite of a much-deprecated
weakness for sanitary reform. His
richer neighbours liked him for the sake of
his name and birth, and found something
very pleasant in his unassuming manners.
The poorer people, having, like most poor
people, a fine appreciation of gentle breeding
exercised towards themselves, found
that they could even pardon an officious
zeal in the matter of drainage, when it
came in so simply friendly, and condescending
a shape.

Rob, the dog, did not receive the good
wishes of the Sherborne cottagers in a
kindly spirit, but when Orlando paused,

Stood by, holding his nose in the air, with
an almost human expression of contempt
for the low persons with whom it pleased
his master to converse.

They passed, presently, under a fine
old timber loch-gate, into the churchyard.
Orlando, striding on with the step of a man
accustomed to the place, came to a large,
square, marble tomb and stood still. Many
names were graven on it, his father's standing
latest. Below was the space which his
own should some day fill. The snowdrops
were beginning to peep through the surrounding
earth. Orlando looked down and
sighed. His dog watched him with a mute
perplexity. This grave was a subject
which he had pondered often, but which
passed his comprehension. He laid his
head, with a faint whine, against his master's
knee, and Orlando looked down, hardly less
startled for the moment than if the plaint
had been human. An old man, too, who

VOL. 11. R

was sweeping the snow from the paths,
supposed the action to be one of pure
sympathy, and thought that 'the 
of them dogs ' was wonderful.
Orlando, aroused by the dog's touch,
proceeded on his homeward way. Presently,
with a quick ring of hoofs on the
hardened road, came a young man and a
young woman riding towards him. These
were Mr. and Mrs. Haverdike, new-comers
in the county, who were building a great
white house about a mile from Sherborne
Lodge. Mr. Haverdike was the son of
a fabulously wealthy railway contractor.
The father, having raised himself from
utter poverty, and having, as the intelligent
untaught often have, an envious reverence
for education as a kind of necromancy,
had lavished on the son of his
prosperity every possible educational advantage.
The odd result was that young
Haverdike at twenty was a devotee

of what he called ' calt-yure ; ' perceived
mysterious beauties in ungainly art-productions
; admired poetry in which many
epithets went to a noun, and might have
lectured very efficiently upon aesthetic
house-decoration. He had married a
young lady whose tastes were very similar
to his own, and her energy in declaring
them much greater. She was an ardent,
open-eyed young creature, with theories of
universal equality, and though her own
grandfather was an earl, honestly thought
the better of her husband for being a
coal-heaver's grandson.

These two young people, halting on the
hard-frozen Sherborne high-road, greeted
Orlando with wishes for a happy new year,
and almost in the same breath announced
that they were going into their new house
next week.

'' Surely it is not finished," said Orlando.

Oh no. We are only going into a

part. We are only going to use the upper
rooms. We shall not think of really furnishing
yet."

The tone seemed to declare that furnishing
was a kind of solemn rite, not to be
entered upon rashly.

'' None of the wall-painting is done yet,"
said Mr. Haverdike. '' I want to make the
dining-room a real temple of art. We
shall have to find some one capable of executing
it in a truly artistic spirit. I want
a really good man, you know  a cultivated
artist, a man with a poetic soul. And I
would rather have some one new. Mary
and I are quite agreed. We should like
to find out somebody and bring him forward
 give him a free field, you see, for
his energies."

He smiled pleasantly, in so guileless a
manner, that Orlando could not find it in
his heart to deride the ambition of .


Do you know anybody of that kind,
Mr. Sherborne ? " Mrs. Haverdike asked.

*' I do know an artist," said Orlando,
'' who would delight In such work. Did
you ever see anything of Duncannon's ?
He paints portraits, I believe, mostly ; but
I have some outline sketches of his, illustrating
' King Lear,' which I should be
pleased to show you. If you like ; and I
know his taste lies more In an Ideal direction."


'' Oh, poor man ! and Is he obliged to
paint portraits?" said Mrs. Haverdike, Ina
tone of deep pity. Do let us see some
of his things, Albert. I should like, of all
things, to employ somebody who was like
that. And do you really think, Mr. Sher-borne,
that he has genius ? "

She turned her eyes upon Orlando withall
seriousness, as If genius were as easy of
diagnosis as measles.

'' I don't know that I am a very good

judge of genius," Orlando answered, smiling
a little. " I think he is a very clever
and original painter, and not so well known
as he ought to be."

Is he young ?" asked Mr. Haverdike.

About two or three and thirty, I should
think. He married one of the Miss Cases
a year or two ago  a daughter of Mrs.
Cash, whom you may have heard of."

What, the Mrs. Cash who is president
of the ' Women's Work Society ' ? "

Yes, no doubt. I thought you would
very likely know her name."

Oh, I have met her several times.
And I remember seeing her daughter ; I
suppose that would be Mrs. Duncannon.
She sang very well."

'' They would be pleasant people to have
living near," said Mr. Haverdike. *' Not
that, of course, one would weigh such a
thing as that in comparison with artistic
power. Unfortunately, some artists are

very unsociable  almost, if one may say
so, morose."

Duncannon is certainly not morose,"
said Orlando. "And Mrs. Duncannon
always seems to me a particularly pleasant
and genial woman."

'' Oh, and do you think," asked Mrs.
Haverdike, her brown eyes growing larger
and larger, " that she inspires him ? 
Albert, do you hear ? "

But Mr. Haverdike's attention was
drawn off by his horse, which decidedly
objected to further delay.

I must not keep you standing," said
Orlando. ''If you like to look in at anytime
 say this afternoon, if you will ride
round that way as you come home  I shall
be pleased to show you his sketches ;
and I have a little landscape of his,
too, done years ago. Good-bye for the
present."

Good-bye, and thank you," was answered

back in duetto, and the sound of
hoofs rang out on the hard road again.

Orlando, with his dog at his heels,
walked on again, thinking of the pleasure
to Duncannon if he should be asked to
paint those walls, and of the pleasure to
himself if Duncannon and Julia should
come to stay here in Sherborne during the
painting. Reaching home, the dog made
at once for the rug in front of the library
fire. Orlando found it a little less easy to
settle down in his accustomed place. The
first day of the new year is apt to bring,
even to well-balanced minds, memories of
the past and visions of the future. Orlando
wandered through the chilly rooms of his
lonely home, and mused rather sadly upon
their emptiness. Lancelot's words ran in
his mind 

But now there never will be wife of mine,'

He was the last of his name ; with him the
direct line must die. Millie's boy would

probably be here after him. He was very
fond of Millie's boy, but he could not help
sighing at the thought. How, if his wife
might have been sitting here by him today,
and a dark-eyed boy of his own might
have looked up at him from his knee ?
For a moment he smiled at the visionary
presences, felt the room lightened by the
companionship of a woman, and heard the
murmuring voice of the child. Then returned
blankness, the crackling and rustling
of the burning logs, the slowly blinking
eyes of the reposing dog, silence and solitude.
He himself was not yet, after all,
eight and twenty, but he felt, or thought
he felt, already like an old man, bereft by
time and death of natural domestic ties.
To his honour be it said, he had never
thought of marrying the first not unsuitable
young woman for the mere sake of forming
himself such ties ; his love for Elizabeth
had taught him too high an ideal of marriage

for that. He could live lonely, but
he could not marry, except for love. And
the woman he loved was abroad, married,
or all as good as married, to Captain Grove.
Looking up he sighed, and tried to turn his
thoughts Into other channels. The year
gone by had had Its more hopeful aspects
too. For If In the one thine nearest to his
heart he had failed, there were other things.
In their kind very dear to him also. In
which he had succeeded. Here in Sher-borne,
and In that other Sherborne, he had
done much  built, restored, renewed, and
regulated. The times had changed since
his grandfather's failure. The tide of
fashion, then so adverse, was now setting
towards east-coast watering-places, and
Orlando's enterprise of revival had proved
successful in the teeth of unanimous prophecies
of failure. That was something.
He had put his whole soul into the work,
affording, as Gilbert had once told him, a

fine example of hereditary energy In a
specialized direction. Many a night did he
sit studying, with more earnestness than
he ever studied his classics at college, the
relative prices and qualities of different
building materials. He smiled at himself
sometimes when he reflected upon his own
development Into a practical man, with a
keen eye for bad carpentry. He did not
often trouble himself with the question : to
what end was all this labour ? To see good
work being done by his means, and bringing
in a fair result of profit, presented itself
to him as a satisfactory end. For money in
itself he cared little, but he did care much
for the Increased scope of activity which
money gave to him. By-and-by he would
widen his range of work yet more, and
come, perhaps, to represent his county.
But of personal joy such plans brought
little. If his father might have lived to see
it, it would have been different. But now,

as he sat solitary, he could not help feeling
that his life was, after all, an empty one,
and that he did but live with the lesser
half of his soul.

*' But it is useless to think of that," he
said aloud, so that Rob opened his blinking
eyes and looked up inquiringly.

His resolution to think of other things
was assisted by the arrival, half an hour
or so later, of Mr. and Mrs. Haverdike,
anxious to inspect Duncannon's drawings.

The little Welsh landscape was sent for
from its place in the tower, and the outlines
of 'King Lear'  more germane to
the present case  were brought out and
laid before them.

These they greatly admired. Mrs. Ha-verdict
was sure that they evinced genius,
especially in the face of Cornelia, which
was, she considered, ''so exactly ones ideal
of Cornelia. The man who could imagine
such a face as that must be a real artist."

Orlando smiled a little, for the face
was merely a slightly beautified version
of Silvia's ; but he said nothing, having
observed that art admirers seldom relish
that doctrine of Sir Joshua Reynolds,
which declares idealized imitation, rather
than invention, to be the true root of art.

Husband and wife were eoinof to London
on the morrow, and hoped Mr. Sher-borne
would be so kind as to give them
an introduction to i\Ir. Duncannon. This
Orlando very willingly did, adding on his
own behalf an invitation for Duncannon to
spend a day or two at the Lodge, in case he
desired to see the walls before undertaking
the commission.

Within a few days came Duncannon's
answer.

'' My dear Sherborne,

Thanks for your kind invitation,
and for the truly glorious prospect which I

owe you. The thought of half an acre of
wall space to cover In panels of life-sized
figures is almost too good to be true.
Won't I astonish your country neighbours
when they come to dinner for the first
time ? And what jolly people the Haver-dikes
are ! They seem to have thoroughly
taken in the correct idea, that an artist is a
kind of prophet, and that his manifestation
must be received accordingly. Only I
observe that they reserve the right of
private judgment in the choice of the
prophet.

The girls, who are here to tea, are
mocking my enthusiasm, as usual. Cecily
says she pities Mr. Sherborne if I am to
stay with him in my present state of mind ;
and Viola is enumerating the difficulties
which I shall meet, and threatening to
paint a companion picture to Hogarth's
Enraged Musician.' Julia, with more
dignity, requests to be remembered to Mr.

Sherborne, and adds in my ear, ' Tell him
how very grateful I feel to him for this.'
I reply that, as usual, her sentiments are
mine, and that you will probably hear more
of them from yours,

'' H. DUNCANNON.

Pes.  I see that I have forgotten to say
that I will be with you tomorrow evening.
Let me be quick and seal this up, before
feminine eyes discover the omission."

Orlando read the letter with pleasure,
glad to think of those bright, young-women's
faces at his friend's hearth. He
prepared to make Duncannon very welcome,
and glancing up to the cherished
Vandyke on the library wall, thought with
pardonable pride of exhibiting it to so
appreciative a spectator.

With the next evening Duncannon
appeared, looking more prosperous and
less decidedly artistic than in his younger

days ; his hair, too, was a Httle thinner
about the edges of the forehead, his cheeks
a little fuller, and his shoulders rounder ;
but no change had come to the alert eye,
quick laugh, and impetuous speech.

His glance went at once to the portrait
of Orlando's grandfather, hanging over the
dining-room mantelpiece. Thence it travelled
to Rob, whose sagacious observation
was busy upon him. Rob was not openly
hostile to his master's visitors, knowing
better the duties required of a well-bred
dog in his own home, but an opinion lurked
in the recesses of his mind that their
presence might advantageously be dispensed
with. He put up his nose and
laid his head sideways against Orlando's
knee, as who should say, " This man is
private property. Trespassers will be
prosecuted."

Orlando's hand came down automatically
to answer the caress.

The dog is as jealous as a woman,"
said Duncannon ; and then remembering
that the words were out of tune to his
loyal allegiance, added  *ras a foolish woman,
I mean."

No woman ever cared for me enough
to be as jealous over me as Rob is," said
Orlando.

Duncannon, who had a good memory,
looked suddenly up from the dog's face to
the master's.

A quick answer, spoken with an accompanying
flush of colour, when they two
were discussing the poems of Clough,
years before, recurred, and now suggested
a solution to a question which Orlando's
friends were rather fond of putting.

There was a pause. Duncannon, afraid
of betraying the thought in his mind,
sought a new topic, and caught that which
lay uppermost.

VOL. II. s

"Did you hear what the subject was to
be for my wall-painting ? "

"No, I did not happen to ask. A series
of themes from Morris and Rossetti ? "

Better than that. Six panels from the
Morte arthur ; ' one for each season of
the year, and a big one extra at each
end."

Well, I am surprised ! I should as
soon have expected the ' Pilgrim's Progress.'
Was it Haverdike's choice or
yours ? "

No ; Mrs. Haverdike's. She thinks
it so English."

Orlando, perhaps remembering the constant
references of Malory and Caxton to
the French book,' smiled.

Are you to work from the old legends
or from Tennyson ? " he asked.

"A little of both, I fancy. I got a
modernized version of the old book this
morning, and read it coming down."

Oh, I could have lent it you."

Could you ? But I can fancy it would
be in your line. I had never met with it
before. But I must study up now. I
shall have to take counsel with the wise 
meaning, chiefly, Julia  and decide upon
my groups. I must get my designs, or
some of them, at least, laid in before I
come down here to set to work. I don't
suppose, in any case, we shall come till
about Easter, for I have two portraits to
finish for the Academy. I see you have
plenty of wood scenery round here, but
not much hill, and no lake. However,
I have got a heap of landscape studies that
I never thought to use for half so enjoyable
a purpose. I am longing for the morning,
that I may go over and see my 'fresh
fields and pastures new.' "

And the newness, I believe, makes
half the charm  now, doesn't it } "

"Well, partly, perhaps. I do like a

change of scene ; but, then, I Hke to keep
on the same actors, and I take it that's the
better sort of fickleness. I don't think I
could live as you do, Sherborne, always in
one place."

'' Oh, but I don't. I wander a good
deal. I think nearly half my time gets
spent on the railway between this and
London, and between London and Suffolk."

Yes ; to think of your having turned
builder, after all ! It is the last thing I
should have expected in those Welsh
days."

*' Or I," said Orlando.

' Truly,' " began Duncannon, '' ' we know
what we are

'' Do we ? " interrogated Orlando.

' But not what we may be,' " continued
Duncannon, who had caught the
trick of quotation from the Cashes, and
developed it pretty considerably, on his
own account, since.

He did not fail to note that parenthetic
doubt, nor the change of mental position
since the days when the world had seemed
complex in his eyes and simple in Orlando's.
He looked at his friend, sitting
with a hand on his dog's head, then
thought of the three laughing young
women in his own home, the evening
before, and wondered at the unlikely ways
in which life fulfilled itself

Duncannon returned, more than ever
elated, from his next morning's visit.
Everything had fulfilled his hopes. The
size of the panels was most suitable, the
lighting of the room from above was all
that could be desired. The Haverdikes
were delightful people. They had proposed
that he and Julia should occupy the
cottage which they had just vacated.

'' Such a jolly little house, Sherborne, with
a lawn at the side, and any amount of rosebushes
in front. I declare, I do think one

might bear to live permanently In such
a place as that. By-the-by, have you
seen Haverdlke's pictures ? He has a
little Perugino  oh, perfect! There's
some sense in people being wealthy, if
they use their money in that way."

''Ah, by-the-by, come and look at my
pictures while it is daylight," said Orlando.
Not that they are Perugino, or anything
like it."

They went into the so-called picture-gallery,
where Elizabeth had danced and
seen others dance, on her last evening in
this house.

Now, here I feel like a portrait-painter
again," said Duncannon, as he walked
from one work to another, scrutinizing and
commenting.

Thence they passed to the library, where
Duncannon stood for some time in silent
contemplation before the Vandyke. * Then,

glancing from the portrait to Orlando and
back again, he remarked 

'' That's a thing that tiaverdike can't
make out of all his old masters, any more
than he can make his new house what
this is."

*' No," said Orlando ; '' but he can leave
it to his descendants, when there are none
of mine. He is the beginning, and I am
the end  that's all. And, to tell the
truth, he starts from the more honourable
founder."

'' You would not like any one else to say
so, though," said Duncannon.

I don't think I should care. I have
left off feeling very filially towards the
old Norman bandit at the top of the family
tree. I don't mind owning," he added,
with an upward smile at the portrait, *'to
a certain gratification in looking like this
man, who was an honest man and a gentleman,

if he did get himself killed fighting
for unconstitutional principles."

For the first time, Duncannon heard, and
rejoiced to hear, the old, boyish tone of
voice.

I am glad to see there's something left
yet of the old leaven of Sir Charles
Grandison. I was afraid you had become
altogether modern and practical."

'' And you," retorted Orlando, '' are
growing conservative in your prosperity.
I shall live yet to hear you preaching the
dangers of advance."

You misunderstand my nature, sir.
My opinions are completely simple and
completely consistent, but I have what
Viola calls a spirit of minority. I always
see the good most clearly on that side
which nobody is sticking up for. Just now,
for instance, I am inclined to find virtues in
your Norman ancestor, and to depreciate
the gentleman in the breastplate."

Orlando could not but. smile at the
description, so exactly, if whimsically, true,
and often afterwards found himself applying
Viola s form of words to past or present
instances.

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED AT THE CAXTON TRESS, BECCI.HS.

0112 041407773

l' i lit i Vi l Tt i iTi))i | i il u iw   i  wH



WMIWIIIIIIIill'lll'[SB

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

B5fe)5o
V.5

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

L161 O-1096

BY

CLEMENTINA BLACK,

AUTHOR OF "a SUSSEX Idol," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:
SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15, WATERLOO PLACE.

1880.

fall rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER Page

I. In the Easter Vacation . . i

II. On a Saturday and Sunday . 17

III. Released . . . 43

IV. Converging Lines . . 62
V. Self-Confessed . .-87

VI. In the Time of Nightingales . 106

VII. Viola's Birthday . . .125

VIII. "All in the Golden Afternoon" 14CHAPTER I.

IN THE EASTER VACATION.

Between Merse and Averil
When spray beginner to spring."

Old English Lyric Poetry.

A BUSY man's time goes quickly, and Orlando
was quite surprised to recollect one
morning that Easter was close at hand,
and that the Duncannons would be coming
to their temporary home next week. He
walked up from the damp fields, speckled
here and there with the first daffodils, to
look at the condition of the house. Mr.
and Mrs. Haverdike were In London, but
directions had been sent down, and he

VOL. III. B

found the cottage given up to cleaners
and scourers. The rose trees, of which
Duncannon had spoken so hopefully, had
suffered from the March winds, and were
straggling, muddy and rain-beaten, across
the path. The lilacs and laburnums were
in leaf, and before many weeks, would be
in flower, and amid the dark mould peeped
the points of crocuses. He had glanced
through the rooms, anxious to see whether
he could add anything to their comfort,
and, observing that no piano was to be
seen, had gone home smiling to himself
He wrote, the same evening, to Duncannon,
begging to be made useful, and offering
to have their luggage fetched from the
station, a matter not always easy of arrangement
in Sherborne. And for the
next few days his own plans and schemes
were always being interrupted by some
fresh idea on behalf of his coming friends.
Duncannon, in his letter of answer, mentioned

that Viola was coming with them,
to stay a few days before going on, at the
end of the vacation, to Cambridge. She
had, as Orlando knew, become in the previous
autumn a student of the then newly
opened college for women. It seemed to
him almost unimaginable that such a
college could exist. The notion of a grave
and studious group of female undergraduates
seemed only appropriate to the pages
of ' The Princess ; ' and that Viola Cash
was otherwise than grave and studious,
was not to be supposed. He was rather
curious to see whether the new way of life
had made any perceptible change in her.

He left his friends alone on the first
'evening, but the next morning walked over,
with Rob, as usual, at his heels. Dun-cannon
caught sight of him, and came out
to meet him.

Here you are. Glad to see you. The
authorities are delighted with everything,

and are planning lawn-tennis already.
Julia is as pleased as a child with a new
toy."

They went in, and Rob lingered behind
them, to rub his muddy feet, according to
rule, on a door-mat. Mrs. Duncannon met
them, with just her mother's smile and tone
of voice.

'' I am so glad to see you, Mr. Sher-borne,
and so much obliged to you forgetting
the luggage up for us on Tuesday.
It made all the difference to our getting
comfortably settled. And Sarah is quite
charmed with the politeness of your man,
who insisted upon coming in and opening
all the packing-cases for her."

While she spoke the open-standing door
was pushed a little wider, and Viola and
Rob came in together, apparently on the
most friendly terms.

You have done a wonder, Miss Cash,
in winning Rob's heart at first sight," said

Orlando, looking with surprise at the dog's
head, nestled against her hand.

Most dogs like me," she answered.
*' My heart was won by the way he rubbed
the mud off his paws before he came in."

She sat down and Rob laid his head
upon her knee, while he kept an attentive
eye to follow his master's movements.

I have been pacing out the lawn," she
continued. " There would be just room
for lawn-tennis on it ; and I would mow
the grass myself with pleasure."

*' Lawn-tennis, Sherborne," observed
Duncannon, '' is the science chiefly studied
by the ladies of Newnham."

As, perhaps, Mr. Sherborne remembers
that boating is by the men," said Viola,
in a tone too demurely matter of fact to
allow an opening for denial.

I little thought," said Orlando, '' when
I was studying that science there, that I
should live to see young ladies invade us,

and discover and proclaim our Innocent
weaknesses."

'' Let us hope that mutual emulation
may cure the weaknesses of both," said
Viola, smiling. " But you speak of us as
invaders. That is rather hard. We want
to be fellow-soldiers. It Is the readiness
of people to talk like that makes women
so apt to be bitter."

She, however, was not speaking bitterly,
but very gently.

*' I used the word carelessly, not in
earnest," Orlando hastened to say.

And Julia interposed, " I won't have
Mr. Sherborne made to stand and give
his watchword. He shall have a special
absolution to be as heretic as he pleases."

I am very much obliged indeed, but,
as Miss Cash says, I thought I was a
fellow-soldier."

Viola, who had looked down at the blackhead
against her knee, looked up, at this,

with a frank smile of pleased and approving
concord.

Duncannon had leaned against the ,
watching the discussion in silence.
Now, abruptly, according to his wont, he
struck in.

'overborne, thank you for sending up
your piano."

Why, how did you know ? " asked
Orlando, quite disconcerted.

Duncannon chuckled.

Didn't I tell you so, Julia ? I thought
I remembered it as having stood in your
breakfast-room."

*'0h, why did you do that, Mr. Sher-borne
? " Julia began.

Chiefly, I think, in the selfish hope of
hearing a little music. There is another
piano left at Sherborne, and by dividing
them I hoped that I might, like the lady
in the nursery rhyme, have music wherever
I went."

"Which means, I trust, that you are
coming here pretty often," said Duncannon.

And that I hope you will come pretty
often to me. You can't imagine how glad
I have been in looking forward to having
you for neighbours. Indeed, I came up
this morning chiefly to offer a suggestion.
Will you come to dinner with me this
evening ? I am sure Mrs. Duncannon
cannot have had time to discover our
resources In the way of butchers and so
forth, yet ; I am sure you will have enough
to do in bringing out the contents of all
those packing-cases, without thinking of
dinners."

The ' suggestion ' was made with a
peculiar smile of appeal inherited from his
father, and not easily to be resisted by
persons of gentle disposition.

'' Thank you," said Julia. '' I do confess
that I was wondering how, when, and
where provisions could be got. Indeed,

I was just going to persuade Harry to
march Into the village, with a big basket
on his arm, and foresee for us."

' You was, ma'am, was you ? ' as Fanny
Squeers says. Then I think we have had
a very lucky escape. I don't knows how it
is, but when I buy meat it always grows
tough on its way home, and fish and fruit
grow stale."

Your artistic education, perhaps," said
Viola, "leads you unconsciously to think
things the better for being old."

"If so, Viola, you might be readier to
forgive us for denying to women an education
which opens up an endless vista of
bad dinners."

Orlando looked at Viola, rather expecting
that she would give a serious answer. But
though Viola had for once taken a light
word in earnest, she was not subject to
that kind of dulness, and merely laughed.

Then Orlando, mindful that his housekeeper

would feel hurt If she had not due
notice of guests to dinner, stood up to go.
Rob at once left Viola and went to his
master's side, but the look which had
watched Orlando was now transferred to
her. As he walked homeward, Orlando's
mind was haunted by Viola s little speech,
'ewe want to be fellow-soldiers." Both
the manner and the matter of the words
had pleased him particularly. He was
glad to think that he should see her and
hear her again so soon.

The evening was the most pleasant
which he had spent in his own house
since his father's death. The desire for
society had slumbered in him. His neighbours
were well-meaning, kindly people ;
he had many subjects of interest in common
with them, and it certainly would never
have entered his mind to tell himself that
they bored him ; but their conversation
never touched the deeper currents of his

own thoughts, and it was long since he had
known that best sort of talk in which

Thought leapt out to wed with thought
Ere thought could wed itself with speech.'

To-day he was once more among those
who were accustomed to a life of wider
scope. He found himself watching, with
keen interest, the quick changes of Viola s
face, on which every inflection of her
thought showed itself. She did not speak
very much, but what she said seemed to
Orlando to make a great part of the conversation.
From her, his eyes went to
Duncannon and to Julia. He noted the
little improvements in Duncannon's outer
man ; the more smoothly ordered hair, the
greater precision of collar and wristbands,
the nearer approach to a fit in the cutting
of the coat. Julia, too, had changed a
little. Her keen eye had somewhat
softened, her smile had gained benevolence
; a touch of sharpness, which might

have developed Into sourness, had left only
a mere flavour, to save serenity from becoming
Insipidity.

Presently there was music. Viola's
voice, If not as sweet as Silvia's, was fresh
and pure, and contrasted, as Silvia's used
to do, with Julia's mellower contralto.
The solitary rooms seemed to have
awakened from a long slumber Into life
again. The pleasant tone of his own
laugh rang In the entrance when his guests
were leaving. His housekeeper, looking
up, wondered In herself. Then she heard
his voice and step pass along the terrace
with the others, and presently return,
followed by the even footfall of his dog.
As he came, he sang, and passed Into the
library, singing still. His housekeeper
slowly nodded, and then as slowly shook
her head.

He had arranged to go to London next
day, to meet some of the directors of the

Suffolk Railway Company, and intended at
the same time to see some stoves of a new
pattern, to inquire into the price of cement
for cottage flooring, and several other
matters of a similar sort. He meant,
however, to despatch all this business as
quickly as possible, so that he might be
back in Sherborne by the middle of the
next day, and might visit two half-built
cottages of his, before the workmen left at
early Saturday hours. He had not a perfect
confidence in his builder, and a long
acquaintance with the ' customs of the
trade ' had taught him that where no clerk
of the works was employed, personal inspection
at frequent, but irregular, intervals
was absolutely necessary to ensure good
work. His resolve to return early was
strengthened by happening, as he walked
to the station to meet the builder coming
thence to the works.

'* Going to catch the train, sir ? " asked
the builder, cheerfully.

Orlando answered '' Yes," and fancied
that he observed a look of satisfaction on
the builder's face.

He stayed, that night, In Portland Place
with Millie and Gilbert, and heard by
chance that Captain Grove was very ill,
and that Elizabeth was nursing him. It
was Gilbert who told him, and he added,
"It makes me sick, Orlando, to think of a
woman wasting her whole life and heart
upon such a wretched creature as that.
You know what she was. Could you have
imagined her throwing herself so utterly
away :

I can Imagine," said Orlando, speaking
slowly and with pain, " that she would be
very constant to a man whom she had
loved once."

Well, women are so," said Gilbert ;
"but it Is a mystery." He had not the
slightest suspicion that his own affection
was a plant of as deep growth as he

fancied Elizabeth's, nor that the real secret
of her constancy lay in the knowledge that
she had never, with her whole heart, loved
her lover.

Orlando sighed, more than once, as he
thought of Elizabeth watching in a foreign
country by that sick bed. What could
be wished for her but the release of his
death ? And if she were released so,
what would her life be to her, having loved
him all these years ? The thought of her
haunted him as he looked at stove after
stove, inquiring prices and capabilities.
But the need of speedy decision presently
absorbed his attention. He gave his
orders, and hastened off to catch his train
for Sherborne.

Arriving there, he struck across country
to the cottages. The damp, dark brown
fields smelt of rain ; blackthorn buds were
brown, and would soon be white upon the
hedges ; the banks were strewn with primrose

patches, and gusts of perfume came
up from unnoticed violets as he passed.
Orlando strode along under the blue spring
sky, and a smile came to his lips. He
forgot his expectation of finding out his
men In misdemeanour, and thought of the
sweetness of his native air compared with
that of London. But alas ! for the Instability
of human cheerfulness. Arriving
at the works, he found the men busily
building into the Inner courses of the walls
(where, as soon as the wall was finished,
they would be invisible) some half-hundred
or so of ineffectual dusty, sandy, * soft '
bricks, which he had himself sorted out
and rejected, two days before. He did not
say many words, but the few were very
decisive. He left the men pulling down
reluctantly their morning's work, under the
angry eyes of the builder, and turning,
walked away, with his enjoyment of earth
and sky completely dashed.

CHAPTER 11.

ON A SATURDAY AND SUNDAY.

Things were as in the April-tide ;
And daffodils and cowslips grew,
And, hidden, the March violets blew."

W. Morris J ' The Earthly Paradise. '

Orlando walked homeward, wearing on
his face a frown of deep annoyance not
often to be seen there. Amiable as, on
the whole, he was, there were some things
in the world whose very thought he found
it difficult to endure with patience, and
upon this list bad workmanship and dishonesty
stood high. The bright sky and
the flowery fields had lost their power ;
even the healthy hunger induced by his
walk had departed from him. The vexed

VOL. III. C

mood was still on him as he crossed a
little copse, green now at every twig and
joint. A deep and sudden bark sounded
from among the underwood, and Rob
came bounding and breaking through to
his side. Orlando's frown relaxed Into
an expression of grave benignity, and he
stopped to welcome Rob with hand and
voice. The rustle of the bushes had
diminished, but not ceased, with the appearance
of the dog. Looking up, Orlando
saw Viola coming down the slope
of the plantation towards him. She carried
a very large truck basket, nearly full of
flowers ; her skirt was tucked up over a
bright petticoat, and her boots were very
muddy. The apparition startled away the
last remnants of his gloom.

*'0h, Miss Cash, good morning!" came
from his lips, with a smile as pleasant asher
own.

*' Good morning' she replied, as she

came down into the path, and gave him
a bare and rather cold hand. '' I wondered
what made Rob rush off in that
sudden way. We thought you were in
London ? "

'' I am on my way home from the station
by an indirect road you'll say  but I
wanted to go up to the cottages I am
building."

A momentary shade of annoyance
crossed his face again. They walked on
for a few yards in silence, Rob pushing
his nose between them.

*' Harry has begun work," said Viola.
*' He has been trying his cartoons on the
wall, and seeing where they want altering.
He wants you, if you will, to go up and
see them, and tell him what you think."

'' Will he be there this afternoon ? "
Orlando asked.

'' Yes ; but don't trouble to come up
this afternoon. You will be tired."

' Oh no. I'll go down to the Lodge
and get some luncheon, and be up at the
Haverdlkes' by half-past three."

'' Would It not be better to come at once
and have some luncheon with us ? Yes,
do."

The suggestion was very inviting.

But I don't like to come in upon your
sister in that way, without any notice," he
began.

*' My sister would be very much hurt If
she thought you doubted her welcome."

'' But it might be Inconvenient."

'' Honestly, Mr. Sherborne, I would
not have asked you if I had not known it
would not be inconvenient. ind now,
honestly on your side too, don't say ' yes '
unless it suits you best."

But, Indeed, It does suit me best, and
thank you very much."

Rob, finding their progress too regular
for his taste, had bounded off, and now

returning, pushed his head first against
one hand and then against the other.

I never knew Rob take a king to
any one before in the way he has done to
you," said Orlando.

Viola smiled, flattered, as we all are,
when an animal offers us affection.

'* He came up yesterday morning, and
fell owed me about, all day, in the most
disconsolate manner. In the evening he
went home ; but before I was up this
morning, I heard him barking at the door,
and had to go down and let him in."

I am afraid he will miss you when you
go away."

So new a fancy can hardly have gone
very deep," said Viola, drawing her hand
across Rob's head.

To Orlando it was strange to see
any other than his own moving across
that black surface. He noticed that her
hand-was finely formed, and finished in

detail, small-jointed and long in the fingers,
and that she wore no rings. He wondered
whether she wore earrings, and lifted his
eyes to the line of her hair under her hat.

No, her ears were guiltless of any such
adorning barbarism. But her dress did
not suggest that the absence of ornament
implied the absence of care. Viola quite
recognized among the rights of women
that of looking as pretty as nature and
good taste would allow. It was the era
of impossibly massive hairdressing, and of
short upper dresses, ungracefully flounced
and puffed. Violas hair and skirts followed
a wise path of compromise, avoiding
the artifices of fashion's extreme, or the
eccentricity of a too markedly opposite
style. Her walk, too, was free from the
odious bend which was the trick of the
day. She bore herself upright, and moved
with a full, free step that had just the
slightest suggestion of soldierlike.

mouth, and gasped. A dismal howl 
justified, it must be owned, by the circumstances
 would evidently be the next
stage. But before It could have time to
break forth, Viola had promptly set the
amazed victim again upon her feet, put
an arm about her, and said, In tones of
consoling sympathy, " Poor little soul ! "

The child gasped again, blinked a little,
and then shut up her mouth in silence.

Viola examined the sturdy knees, then the
brown palms and knuckles. The damage
to these prominent points appeared to be
trifling, and a happy roundness of figure,
partly natural, but greatly assisted by costume,
had kept the head and face at safe
distance from the ground. '' Well, there Is
not much harm done, after all," said Viola,
cheerfully.

Then, and not until then, one group of
knuckles sought the corresponding eye ;
the small underlip began to protrude and
to tremble.

Why, what's the matter ? " Viola asked,
fearful of unseen hurts.

'' My  y f  flow  ow  powers."

Orlando made haste to gather them up,
but some had fallen in muddy places, and
some the child had fallen upon, and a few
Viola, in her haste, had trodden. " Look,
here are most of them again, and you'll
soon be able to gather as many more
again," said Orlando, restoring them carefully
to the pinafore, whose hem she still
firmly grasped.

The consolation was appropriate, but it
failed. She left off crying, indeed, while
she received it into her mind, but, being a
logical young person, presently looked him
full in the face and said, not without scorn,
'A mist have had them and they too."

Orlando was completely crushed, and
hardly dared to offer pecuniary compensation
in the shape of a penny. This, however,
she accepted without demur ; a grin

restored her countenance to its normal
form, and Orlando and Viola proceeded on
their way.

A fine instinct for political economy'*
said he. '' Don't you think she ought to
have a chance of Newnham ?"

Viola looked back at the small, sturdy
figure  the chubby hands now, as before,
gleaning from the hedges, the round, appeared
cheeks and half-open mouth, whence
issued an inarticulate, contentedly crooned
chant. " Do you think she would thank
you for the suggestion ? " said she.

*' Well, perhaps not. But, then, consider
what her country might gain. How, if she
should be a sort of mute, inglorious Adam
Smith  an Eve Smith, as you might say ? "

Viola slackened hef pace a little, clasped
her hands, and looked to the hedges and
the sky. '' To think," she said, " that I
should live to hear a country gentleman,
an owner of property, an employer of

labour, preaching radical doctrines in his
own village ! After this, I shall begin to
have hopes of the Millennium. But are you
not afraid that your neighbours will rise en
masse and drive you into exile ? "

'' I do not alarm their minds with doctrine.
I only carry out this or that little
bit of reform as opportunity presents, and
take care to let them know, incidentally,
how well it pays. Just now I am hoping
to afford what my mind has been set upon
for some years  the building of a school."

Viola looked up, much interested.

It will be rather expensive," he went
on, " but that's of course. I would rather
do all, and have my own way, than do half
and be liable to interference ; that is not
very radical, I am afraid, but so it is. My
plan  I may confess it to you, who are nota
Sherbornian  is this. By-and-by the
School Boards will come into the country ;
then I shall resign my school Into their

hands, and Sherborne will have had a
double advantage. When there was no
Board School, it will have had a private
school ; and when the Board does come,
there will be no private school, dropping
behind the times as they nearly always do,
to draw away half its scholars. But I
should not dare to say that to most of my
neighbours. In fact, I believe many of
them will applaud my scheme on the very
ground of its being a bulwark against the
hated Board."

They looked at each other and laughed.
Orlando was very sure of his listener's
sympathy, for her mother was a member
of the London School Board.

'rand how when you come to the
transfer ? "

'' Oh, it must be put clearly before
them that they would have had to build
at their own expense if I had not done it."

And do you mean to start with the

same kind of teaching as the Government
schools ? It would simplify matters, I
should think. And besides, the teaching
is really on so good a plan."

'rit is really good, is it ? The fact is, I
know so little about the actual details of
the working. I thought you might be able
to enlighten me a little."

Certainly, what I have seen of Board
Schools gives me a very high idea of their
method. It is true it is rather a new
broom yet. But have you no school at
Sherborne '. "

'' No  absolutely none. There is one at
Shelbridge, about half-way between here
and Addlecombe, but it is a long distance
for the children to go there. There
was an attempt at a school here in the
time of my great-uncle, who was vicar, but
somehow it died away."

'' That relieves you from one trouble
which perplexes the School Boards. They

don't know how to deal with the little private
schools, which are sometimes kept by
the most worthy and well-meanings people,
and yet are so inefficient. Mamma made
a tour of all those in the district, and drew
up a report  or rather, as it happened, I
drew it up for her." She broke into a
sudden smile, and interrupting her businesslike
narration. '' Only fancy !" she said;
"there was a meeting in our neighbourhood
in favour of a denominational school,
and I was held up to commiseration as a
second Caddy Jellybyby ! How they knew
that I had anything to do with it, I can't
imagine. It was fortunate I was not therefor
I certainly should have said something
which might have been considered very
unfeminine."

Orlando's face expressed the greatest
indignation. '' Nobody, however, who
knew anything of Mrs. Cash could possibly
be influenced by such an absurdity,"
he said, warmly.

Oh, Mr. Sherborne, it is clear that you
have not seen much of the people who
speak against women's rights. Mrs. Jellybyby
comes out as regularly as a Guy Fawkes
on the Fifth of November ; Mrs. Jellybyby in
public, and an invariable formula in private :
I like women to be women, and men to
be men'"

Orlando thought he remembered meeting
the formula before, and that it had
seemed to be considered final.

I never shall forget hearing one particularly
foolish man say that, three times
in the course of one evening. At the third
time Cecily could bear it no more, and
answered, ' It is fortunate that you do, for
no amount of wishing would succeed in
making anything else of them.' "

'' Was he entirely quenched ? " asked
Orlando, hearing in his ears Cecily's clear,
high voice, and imagining the steady gaze
with which she would have fixed her victim.

I cannot tell. He never said It again
to us. But how I have wandered from
what I meant to speak of! It was quite
melancholy to see what an Immense amount
of time, money, and good Intention was
being bestowed In that district with a
lamentably disproportionate result. It
brought home to one very strongly the
need for some centralizing agency."

You don't think, then, that large
schools are bad for the children ? "

'' Not of such a size as you would get in
Sherborne," said Viola. A truly womanly
answer, practical and yet evasive, solving
the present case, but declining to commit
herself to general statements either positive
or negative.

They came up to the cottage as she
spoke, and Orlando followed her Into the
garden, where Julia was busy among her
flower-beds.

Orlando's afternoon was so pleasant that

it almost made amends for the morning's
annoyance due to Mr. Made. Viola's
knowledge of school details promised to be
very useful, and the method of its imparting
was certainly very agreeable. It was
agreeable, too, to explain his plans to a
listener so intelligent and so sympathetic.
Her frank face spoke as clearly as her
voice, and with greater quickness. Her
hints about ventilation, teachers' desks,
wall-cementing, and other points of arrangement,
excited his strongest approval.
He thought within himself that her clear
sense and quick observation would have
been invaluable in a man. Then, stopping
his thought short, he demanded of himself
why he should suppose them less valuable
in a woman.

A little later they went up to the new
house. As they stood in the long, unfinished,
airy room, looking at Duncannon's
cartoons, another side of her character

VOL. III. D

presented Itself. She had a fine taste as
well as a keen intelligence. Her technical
comprehension was less instructed than
Julia's, and her eye had, perhaps, a duller
sense of correct execution ; but It seemed
to Orlando that In the spirit of the work 
so far as spirit and execution can be dissociated
 Viola's perception was both deeper
and more delicate. He began to have a
good deal of respect for this girl of twenty,
who knew something, it appeared to him, of
almost everything that he knew, and much
of many things of which he knew nothing.
Her music, for instance, was no mere
instinct, like his own, but a cultivated
knowledge. Her criticism, too, he perceived,
was articulate and educated. She
was able to assign a ground for the
opinions of which Orlando could only feel
the justice.

The four returned together to the cottage,
and no very strong persuasion was

needed to Induce Orlando to spend the
evening there. Duncannon was full of an
exuberant glee, the result of delight In his
work, and Viola was scarcely more sober.
They Insisted upon playing games. Dun-cannon
declared that his brain required
relaxation after the work of the day ; and
Viola gravely pointed out that she would
never have another spring In which she
would not be of age, and that It was needful
to get as much play as possible while
she was still not come to years of discretion.
Therefore they started at capping
verses, and presently changed to other
quick-witted pastimes of a similar kind.
Viola was as earnest in these as she had
been In her talk of education and of art.
The heartiness of her absorption In the
employment of the moment gave her, perhaps,
her most peculiar charm, and was the
key to that variety of Interests which struck
Orlando. He watched her now, her mischievous

eyes full of some hidden plan for
the winning of the game, her open triumph
when she succeeded, her quick repartees,
half wit, half mere gaiety, but with no
disfiguring touch, either of dulness or of
roughness ; and as he watched her he
wondered that he could have thought her
wanting In girllshness. The difficulty was
In realizing that this mirthful girl could bethe
serious student, on whose behalf a
little pile of Greek books and a well-worn
Lexicon lay modestly bestowed In a corner.
It came Into his mind that he would like
to see her dance, ye was sure that her
bodily motions would be as swift and
graceful as those of her mind.

Again Orlando's evening left him with
a smile upon his lips ; he walked home
through the pleasant half-darkness, and
felt a freshness of youth and hope that
harmonized with all the awakening promise
of the world about him. His empty

home struck him \vith no chill to-night.
His mind vas full of plans for the future,
for his school and for calling to discuss
it \vith Mrs. Cash next time he should be
in town. Suddenly among these pleasant
thoughts came that of Elizabeth. How,
he wondered, were things with her ?

Sighing, he went into the library, and
took up the letters which lay there waiting
for him. Invitations, circulars, the acknowledgment
of a subscription ; a few
lines from Arthur Rendell, newly engaged
to be married, and grateful for good wishes.
He consigned them methodically to their
proper resting-places ; the invitations and
Arthur's letter to the drawer where papers
awaited reply, the receipt to a neat file,
the circulars to the waste-paper basket.
Then, lighting a cigar, he took out his
pocket-book and referred to a price-list
procured that morning in London. Calculations
followed, and entries in a business

diary, and his day ended with a recollection
of its most disagreeable part, the sins of an
unreliable builder.

The next morning brought a bright,
clear Sunday. The long, Sherborne Lodge
pew, in which Orlando had sat for so many
months alone, was shared to-day by his
new neighbours. What more natural than
that, when service was over, he should
walk with them on their homeward way ?
Rob, who always accompanied his master
to the church door, and lay in the porch
until he reappeared, was, of course, of the
party.

That's the piece of ground that I hope
to have my school upon, Miss Cash."

Viola looked with critical keenness, and
remarked, '* You won't have much room
for a playground." In the same breath
she stopped herself " How absurd ! Of
course you don't want a play-ground here.
My notions are all gathered from schools
in towns."

** Do I hear Viola talking school on
Sundays ? " interposed Duncannon ; " and
Sherborne encouraging her ? "

*' ' The better the day,' Harry, ' the better
the deed.' And it is quite as good a deed
to build English schools as to subscribe to
foreign missions."

Orlando, who had pressed forward to
point out the plot of ground to Viola, fell
back a little and said, '' I suppose I aren't,
after that, ask, as I was going to do, what
you all thought of our stained windows
and monuments."

Stained windows," Duncannon decreed,
*' are a strictly Sunday subject ; and I for
one thought that I should like to know
how they managed their colouring."

There was a general laugh at this secular
confession.

'' I thought," said Julia, '' that I should
like to go in on a week-day, when I might
walk about and stare."

I can give you the key whenever you
like," said Orlando, quickly.

"What business have you with the
church key ? Is it a manorial privilege ? "
asked Duncannon.

'' Well, I don't know. I do have it.
I think it is because I am a churchwarden.
If you were to brawl in church, it would be
my painful duty to turn you out."

This is really a fine country," Dun-cannon
meditatively remarked. '' If a man
has no fixed work of his own, he can be
provided with offices enough to employ
every hour of his day, and nobody will
hurt his feelings by offering to pay him.
Are you, by chance, a magistrate also ? "

No, I am not. I cannot undertake
to protect you if you trespass in search of
landscape backgrounds."

"Which it is perfectly certain," said
Viola, "that he will."

Don't you delude yourself, Sherborne,

with any such idea. Your flat Midlands
are not at all my affair. If I do want
scenery, I'll go to the authentic thing :
Astolat, which is Guilford,' and

Tintagel, half on sea and high on land,
A crown of towers.' "

I am sure," said Julia, " that the
authenticity would delight Mrs. Haver-dike.
But I should advise you to go in
the warm weather, and to take me with
you.

'rit would be pleasant, would it not ?
By-the-by, Sherborne, will you lend me
your face, if I want it, for one of the Round
Table ? "

Might I ask, whose ? " Orlando cautiously
inquired. " I don't wish to be
immortalized as Mark or Modred."

Oh, I don't know that I want you to
be anybody definitely named. But you
would make a very good accessory  a well-behaved
young knight, who would look on

'' I can give you the key whenever you
Hke," said Orlando, quickly.

"What business have you with the
church key ? Is it a manorial privilege ? "
asked Duncannon.

Well, I don't know. I do have it.
I think it Is because I am a churchwarden.
If you were to brawl in church, It would be
my painful duty to turn you out."

'' This is really a fine country," Dun-cannon
meditatively remarked. '' If a man
has no fixed work of his own, he can be
provided with offices enough to employ
every hour of his day, and nobody will
hurt his feelings by offering to pay him.
Are you, by chance, a magistrate also ? "

'' No, I am not. I cannot undertake
to protect you If you trespass In search of
landscape backgrounds."

'which it is perfectly certain," said
Viola, 'that he will."

Don't you delude yourself, Sherborne,

with any such idea. Your flat Midlands
are not at all my affair. If I do want
scenery, I'll go to the authentic thing :
Astolat, which is Guilford,' and

Tintagel, half on sea and high on land,
A crown of towers.' "

I am sure," said Julia, " that the
authenticity would delight Mrs. Haver-dike.
But I should advise you to go in
the warm weather, and to take me with
you.

"It would be pleasant, would it not ?
By-the-by, Sherborne, will you lend me
your face, if I want it, for one of the Round
Table ? "

Might I ask, whose ? " Orlando cautiously
inquired. " I don't wish to be
immortalized as Mark or Modred."

*' Oh, I don't know that I want you to
be anybody definitely named. But you
would make a very good accessory  a well-behaved
young knight, who would look on

with proper sympathy In whatever was
going forward."

Orlando accepted this observation
graciously, and then bidding them goodbye,
turned homeward with his clog.

CHAPTER III.

RELEASED.

The morning mists grow thin and clear,
And death brings in the day."

Lezuis Carroll.

The months had come round again to
April. Nice was empty, and the heat and
the mosquitoes had returned. Major Glen-dining
and his daughter were, however,
still here. The Villa Nalli stood in the
morning sunshine, with all its shutters
closed towards the east, and casting behind
it a honor shadow. In the shadow sat
Elizabeth, with a book upon her knee.
Her father had chosen the cooler morning
hours for his daily walk, and was out,
supported on the arm of Bannacker. She

at the English church, and had met him
once or twice, easier in the season, at the
house of some American acquaintances.

She stood up and went forward with a
smile.

'you will think it very strange of me
to come up, Miss Glendinning, and so
early too," he began.

Not at all," said she. *' There are so
few English left now that it is quite refreshing
to hear one's own language. My
father is out, or I am sure he would have
been pleased to see you. Won't you sit
down ? It is pleasant here for the
present than It is Indoors."

** I came," said the young man, " upon
a very painful errand."

Yes?" said Elizabeth, her face changing
a little. " Is It anything In which I can
help you ? "

The young curate always said afterwards
that her face and words In asking that

question touched him more than any positive
misery that he had ever witnessed.
He hardly knew how to fashion his answer.

'' No, thank you very much. It is
rather, I wish that I might be able to
help your

Elizabeth's hand groped for the woodwork
of the rough arbour.

"My father?" she said, speaking faintly,
and turning very pale.

No; but I believe  I think  you know
Captain Grove, do you not ? "

She bent her head a little, and leaned
more heavily against the support.

"He has met with an accident, or had
some sort of fit  we hardly know. They
brought him to my lodging  it was close
by that it happened ; and this morning he
seemed a little conscious, and blessed me
to let you know."

Thank you," said Elizabeth. " Is it  a
very serious matter, Mr. Turner ? "

I am almost afraid that It Is. I thought
perhaps you would come and see him."

Elizabeth uttered a low, murmured
'' Oh ! " and put her hand before her eyes.

Poor Mr. Turner stood deeply sympathetic,
but quite paralyzed by the sight of
her pain, and unable to find a word.

'' I will come," said she, " now  at once.
Is there nothing that would be of any use
to him that could be sent down ? "

No, I think not. Dr. Lemercler has
seen him, and sent In a Sister of Charity
to look after him."

I will come," said she again. " Will
you come In for a few minutes, and be so
kind as to wait for me ? "

She led the way Into the house, and left
him in a cool, shaded room. Then she
summoned Mrs. Bannacker, and explained
on what errand she was called away.
Before Mr. Turner had thought it possible
that she should be ready, she came back

to him, wearlncf a white Algerian scarf
round her shoulders, and a wide, ItaHan
straw hat. Her appearance had not for
one instant occupied her own thoughts, but
it inspired something Hke awe in the mind
of the young curate. Her white dress, her
extreme paleness, and the exquisitely refined
lines of her face and figure combined
to give something spiritual to her aspect.
He felt that he was hardly fit to walk
beside her.

They went out together, and descended
by the steep and stony, but shorter and
less frequented hill-way, to the town.
Elizabeth asked for particulars of Captain
Grove's illness. Mr. Turner could give
but few. He had been found, lying with
his head upon a doorstep, insensible. His
head seemed to have been cut in falling.
There was no appearance of his having
been attacked by any person, but it was
possible that he might have been. The

VOL, III. E

doctor could not precisely say whether he
had been overcome by sudden illness and
so fallen, or whether, falling accidentally,
the blow had sufficed to stun him ; but
he inclined to the first opinion. Of a further
suspicion that he had been drunk at the
time of his falling, Mr. Turner said nothing,
and did not even surmise that Elizabeth
had silently taken it as the base of all
the rest.

Mr. Turner's lodging was in a little
street tributary to the Rue de France,
from which it was a few doors off, and,
consequently, very near to the larger of
the two English churches. Captain Grove
himself had been staying at an hotel in the
Place Grimaldi, and had probably been
on his way thither when this accident or
seizure overcame him. He had been
away from Nice, in England, and then
in Paris, and had only returned two days
before.

The heat of the day had well set in
by the time they reached their destination.
j\Ir. Turner, leavings Elizabeth in
his little sitting-room, went to apprise the
Sister of her coming. As he paused on
the landing, Elizabeth heard the suppressed
cough, brought on by ascending
three flights of stairs. Returning, with a
carefully noiseless footstep, he led her
across, opened the door, and drew back.
Within the room stood a middle-aged
Sister of Charity, wearing the immense,
white-winged cap with which her life
abroad had made Elizabeth familiar.
Elizabeth spoke a word or two to her,
and went forward to the bed. Captain
Grove lay, with one side of his head
bandaged, the cheek and orbit of the eye
discoloured by bruises, and the upper lip
disfigured by a cut. The other profile
showed no injury, but the appearance of
age seemed to have deepened immeasur-

,,we-avonamo*

\,\6RR'

ably since she saw him, two days before.
His eyes were closed, but the fingers,
of his hand moved as it lay on the covering.


Edward," said she, just touching his
hand.

The fingers slightly curved to detain
hers, and slowly his eyes opened. She
had taken off her wide-brimmed hat, and
her face leaned towards him full of solicitude.


'' Lizzie," murmured he, and closed them
again.

A minute or two went by. She fancied
that he had fallen asleep, and attempted
gently to withdraw her hand. She felt
it clutched convulsively, saw his eyes start
open, and a look of terror come into his
face. He began to speak, hurriedly and
low.

'' Stay with me. They want to kill
me. I know they do. They are coming

after me. You'll take care of me. Don't
let her come near me. Send her away.
She has wings on each side of her head,
and when you are not looking, the flames
come out of them. Black flames. She
makes them come after me."

I will stay with you ; no one shall
touch you but me," Elizabeth said, in her
soft, low tones, bending a little nearer.

But in the same instant, he threw up
both his arms and flung her back from
him, shrieking, " You are on fire ! "

Elizabeth stood, cold with terror ; and
the high, sharp voice event on, while his
eyes and hands turned themselves this
way and that.

They are coming at me  everywhere.
I knew they would. I knew they wanted
to burn me. There's another, another !
Catch it. It is hiding, in the chimney."

The Sister ran to call Mr. Turner, who
came, hastening in, only to depart again as

hastily Inquest of Dr. Mercier. He did
not depart, however, till he had prevailed
upon Elizabeth to leave the room. " Indeed,
Miss Glendinning," said he, very earnestly,
"this is not a fit scene for you. I have
seen this kind of delirium several times.
You cannot possibly do any good, and you
may do harm. He will not know you.
By-and-by, when he is better, he will want
you. You must keep your strength till
then."

She obeyed passively, and went to wait
in the next room, but the sound of indistinct
and terrified ravings reached her even
there.

A terrible week followed. She would
not yield to her father's wish, and go home
to the Villa Nalli. She proposed, at first,
to find some lodging near at hand, but Mr.
Turner, hearing of her intention, insisted
on giving up to her the room in the house
which had been allotted him in place of his

own. Major Glendinning, thereupon, sent
a polite message by Bannacker that he
hoped Mr. Turner would make his home
for the present at the villa. This arrangement
relieved Elizabeth of much anxiety
regarding her father's comfort. The young
clergyman seemed, in the course of twenty-four
hours, to have become an old and
valued friend. The Sister was aided by
Mrs. Bannacker, who came down daily and
stayed till the night. During the first and
wildest days Bannacker also was called
into requisition, and, with the proverbial
many-sidedness of an old soldier, showed
himself the most dexterous sick nurse of
the three. By degrees, the delirium subsided,
leaving behind a weakness of utter
exhaustion and a complete lethargy  as
Dr. Mercier said, '* un aneantissement."
To the terrors and shrinking succeeded
apathy. Elizabeth sat sometimes for hours
by the bedside, waiting for some sign of

recognition that did not come. He lay
with closed eyes, most often, she thought,
asleep, and never appeared to know who
sat beside him, or that any one did so. It
was one day while this stage continued
that she found the following notice in the
second column of the Ties :  " If Captain
Edward Grove, late of  th Regiment, will
communicate with Messrs. Hill and Locker,
solicitors, 1']'%, Chancery Lane, he will
hear of something to his advantage, he
being entitled to a legacy under the will of
his late uncle, Sir Edward Grove, of Balla-broom,
Lancashire. Any person communicating
the present address of the abovementioned,
or authentic information of his
death, if dead, will be rewarded." She
sent the paper to her father, begging him
to write ; and waited thenceforth all the
more anxiously for some token on her
lover's part of returning intelligence. She
was sure that if once his mind could receive

this new hope, it would much assist his
recovery. And, perhaps, an assured income
might keep him henceforth in better paths.
She had always believed that moderate
wealth would have saved him from the
degradation of these later years. Perhaps
it might even yet be time. He showed on
the evening of that day some symptoms
of returning strength. Elizabeth, coming
in from the half-hour's walk on which
the doctor insisted, heard that he had
spoken a few words reasonably to the
Sister. He was now asleep ; and Dr. Le-mercier
had said that he was likely to
wake clear-headed, and that if so he must
be spoken to very quietly, and kept calm.
Elizabeth took her seat by the bedside and
watched all night for that awaking, breathless
every time that he moved. A net
curtain was strained across the open window
to keep out mosquitoes, and the Sister,
leaning back in her high armchair, slept.

Captain Grove slumbered on, muttering
sometimes, sometimes speaking audible but
incoherent words. As far as it was possible
to follow the disconnected thoughts, they
seemed to point to dreams of England.

Slowly, hour by hour, the night melted
away into the morning. The clock ticked
to and fro, with an even beating: that forced
her thoughts to run to its measure. From
the bed came the disturbed breathes of
the sleeper. The white cap of the Sister
threw great shadows on the wall, and
Elizabeth, sitting with her hands folded in
her lap, watched their flickering shadows
as she waited, tired out and sleepless, for
what should come next. The grey dawn
crept down the edges of the blind. The
window-square grew, by untraceable gradations,
to a pale, vague patch of light.
A bird sang suddenly outside. The
curtain of the bed quivered. There came
a murmur, from within, a murmur, surely,
of '' Lily."

Softly she drew back the edge of the
curtain, and, bending forward, looked at
the sick man with an Intense, pitying
tenderness. His eyes were fixed straight
before him ; a strange, vacant smile was on
his face, a smile that Elizabeth could not
bear to see. Yet, she thought, he looked
better, more like himself

'* Edward," said she gently, but with a
sharpness of terror in her voice, " Edward ! "

He turned, looked at her with no change
of face, and said, with a hard, thin distinctness,
'' Nelly."

Elizabeth started back and dropped the
curtain. Her first thought was an ashamed
terror lest the Sister should have heard
and understood. The Sister was just
awakening".

Ah, il se reveille," she whispered
drowsily.

Then there was a moment's pause, and
Elizabeth had time to feel that never, in

all the pains of her life, had such a stab
come to her as this.

The Sister came softly to the foot of the
bed ; looked, put her hands together,
looked again, turned to Elizabeth, saw her
sitting, white as marble, in the corner, and
thought that she too understood what was
coming.

Ah, la pauvre ma'amselle ! " she said,
under her breath, and just touching the
cold hand.

Elizabeth looked at her with wide eyes,
but with no notion of what she meant to
convey.

Suddenly she heard the uneven breath
kings again, but changed.

She grasped the Sister s hand.

'' C'est la mort ? " she asked, her face
waking again into dread.

Ah, oui, ma'amselle. Regardez pluto."

She drew Elizabeth's reluctant hand.
She looked and saw the colours of death

coming, and with them a likeness, never
seen before, to Sir Edward Grove.

Through the closed blind came the rose-red
lights of sunrise, bringing the new
day.

CHAPTER IV.

CONVERGING LINES.

The ghostly whisper rings between
The sad refrain of ' might have been.' "

Lewis Cmj'oll.

Viola had prone back to Newnham.  Oro



land was busy with his cottages. Duncan-non
was advancing with his work, and
Mr. and Mrs. Haverdike were delighted
with the painting, the painter, and the
painter's wife. But Duncannon could not
work solely at Sherborne. The cartoons
which he had brought with him were not
so many as the whole number of panels,
and neither models nor costumes were to
be had away from London. Sometimes
he and Julia would be absent for a week

or more at a time, and Orlando, during
these absences, found himself extremely
lonely. He realized, as he had never
done before, the vacancy in his own life.
He had not felt solitude painful, but,
having once tasted the delight of satisfying
company, he could not return to solitude.
He looked forward with hope to the idea
of Viola's possible return. He had found
in her a most congenial companion, and
caught himself wishing, more than once,
for her opinion upon questions of difficulty.
His feeling towards her had not a trace
of the heart-shaken devotion which Elizabeth
had inspired in him. In fact, he
thought less about Viola, as Viola, when
he was in her presence than when he was
absent from her. While she spoke, his
attention was absorbed upon the subject
and matter of her speech ; her individuality
only made itself felt in the brighter and
clearer atmosphere which seemed to radiate

from her, making the world worthier of
interest, healthier, more hopeful. She produced,
he said to himself, the same effect
that a keen-witted, healthy-souled lad
might have done ; only, being a woman,
she had a more delicate quickness than
could have belonged to a boy. These
were Orlando's thoughts ; but a young
man's thoughts on such a subject, even
when he supposes himself to have attained
the wisdom of age, are not of necessity
correct.

The early weeks of summer had gone.
June was deepening and thickening the
greenness of the woods. The thought
was beginning to stir in Orlando's memory
that the Long Vacation was at hand ; and,
having that memory In his mind, his
speech not unnaturally followed the same
line, and at Duncannon's cottage the same
evening the words ' Long Vacation ' arose
in his talk.

Julia took the subject up at once, and
said, " Yes ; Viola was going home on
Wednesday."

She is not going to take you on her
way back, then ? "

Julia said " No," and said nothing more,
having a proud fear lest it might be said
or thought that she had thrown her young
sister in a rich man's path.

She did not communicate this fear to
her husband, feeling very certain that he
would laugh at her ; and Duncannon, if he
had any private thoughts on the matter,
was equally discreet.

Towards the end of that week, however,
Orlando went to town, as he said, for a
few days. The few days drew themselves
out into many, and they heard that he had
called In Gower Street, and was putting
himself under Mrs. Cash's instruction in
regard to Board Schools. Hitherto he
had rather avoided London at that season

VOL. III. F

ORLANDO.

of the year in which he would be Table
to see the greenness of early summer on
the trees of the Park Crescent and Regent's
Park Gardens. But time was gradually
blunting the edge of remembrance. He
said to Millie, on the first day of his
coming, that his old fancy for London was
beginning to lay hold on him again.

I am glad of it," said Millie. " If you
sat for the county, you would have to be
here a good many months of the year. "

That will not be just yet, if ever,
Millie. But I do think that, if you and
Gilbert can have me, I will take a holiday
and perform the part of country cousin
for a few weeks. Does Gilbert care as
much as ever for the river ? "

Oh yes ; but he says nobody pulls as
well with him as you do, which he takes
to be the result of your Cambridge

trammg.

Orlando smiled, well pleased, for he had

considerable respect for Gilbert's judgment
on such a point, and rather believed,
himself, that he did row well. Now, for
these five years or so, it had been the
increasing desire of Millie's heart to see
her brother suitably married. She had
often felt and said that it really was almost
Orlando's dtUy to marry, and that she was
quite sure, by her own experience  and
Gilbert said the same  that marriage was
the happiest condition.

"Yes, Millie," her brother would answer,
'' I quite believe that, too ; and when anybody
cares as much for me as you do for
Gilbert, I'll consider."

But you never asked anybody," said
Millie on one occasion.

To that accusation, Orlando allowed his
silence to plead guilty.

But now Millie began to suspect that
Orlando had not been, all this time, so
heart-free as she had supposed. His

ORLANDO.

unconscious tendency to quote Miss Cash's
views and sayings did not escape her ; and
when, on the very second day of his stay,
he went to call in Gower Street, she
became convinced within herself that he
had nourished a secret admiration, all
these years, for the youngest Miss Cash,
and had, very likely, been only waiting
till she was old enough to know her own
mind. Viola was not, indeed, the wife
whom she, for her own part, would have
chosen. It would have been much more
desirable if he could have managed to fall
in love with Ida or Maudie. Still she
knew that complete satisfaction is not to
be looked for by sisters in such matters,
and she prepared herself to make Viola
welcome. She had never seen her, but
had once met Mrs. Duncannon, and had
inclined to like her, and had seen another
sister at a concert, and had been sure that
she should like her very much. She would

not say a word to Orlando of her suspicions
 certainly not ; but she would
endeavour to cultivate the friendship of
Miss Cash.

A day or two later, therefore, she said
to her brother in a natural and unpremeditated
manner, *' Orlando, Mr. Woodman
is staying in London, and Gilbert
wants me to ask him to dinner."

'* Oh, old Woodman," said Orlando with
a pleased smile. *' I am glad I happened
to be here."

Mr. Woodman had been Orlando's
tutor as well as Gilbert's, and had attained
some degree of fame, since then, in that
road of fame whose milestones are annotated
editions of Greek plays.

"I was thinking," pursued Millie, "that
I might ask Mrs. Cash and her daughters
to meet him ; you see. Miss Cash, being
at Cambridge, might very likely know
him."

Fancy old Woodman lecturing through
his spectacles to a class of pretty girls ! "
said Orlando, from which Millie inferred
that Miss Cash was pretty.

"Yes, do ask them, Millie," he added,
when his enjoyment of this fancy had subsided.
'' I am sure you would like to
know them. And Viola  what a trick
one gets of using the name one hears
used by other people ! I mean. Miss Cash
is just the sort of girl who would know
how to talk to Woodman. You might
ask Uncle Charles, if you want any one
else."

'' Yes, that is just what I thought of
doing. But now, Orlando, you will have
to take me to call on Mrs. Cash."

Certainly ; whenever you please," Orlando
rejoined, with great alacrity.

The visit was duly made, but Millie's
wish of seeing Viola was not gratified.
They saw, however, Mrs. Cash, Cecily,

Silvia, and Silvia's two children ; and Millie
having started with a desire to like the
whole family, if she possibly could, was
able to go home expressing the opinion
that they were all extremely nice. But in
her heart of hearts she hoped that Viola
might prove to resemble Silvia rather than
Cecily. She sent an invitation for Mrs.
Cash and one of her daughters, in due
form, the next day. An answer was returned
which exactly suited her views.
Mrs. Cash and Miss Viola Cash accepted
with great pleasure.

Millie had long passed that stage of
mastership in which a small dinner-party,
such as this, could cause nervousness ; yet
when the evening came, and the time approached
for the arrival of her guests, she
showed a certain agitation. Until she had
seen Viola's face and dress she could not be
easy. She had lurking doubts of the compatibility
of female learning with a good

taste in dress. It was impossible to give
her thoughts heartily to any other subject
while she was expecting every moment
the announcement of Viola's name. At
last the announcement came, and Viola
followed her mother into the room. Her
dress was of a soft, lavender-tinted grey,
fitting rather closely to her figure, cut
square in front, and with sleeves that
reached the elbow. Millie gave a little
sigh of relief. All was as it should be.
She bore no signs in her face or in her
dress of knowing more Greek than might
be derived from the advertisements in
railway stations. Orlando, too, looked at
her with pleasure. He was not, just now,
observant of his own mood, or he might
have discovered that the pleasure had an
element of difference from that which he
would have regarded an equally intelligent
youth. Her quick eye had at once discerned
Mr. Woodman, and Orlando perceived

that shc recognized him. The
recognition was mutual. Mr. Woodman,
after a moment advanced, shook hands
with her, and hoped that Miss Cash was
enjoying the leisure of the vacation.

'* Yes, thank you," she answered, smiling.
'' But I enjoy the work of the terrri very
much too, and am never at all sorry when
the vacation is over."

You do not, I trust, work much in the
vacation ? Young ladies, you know, are
fragile ; you should not overtax your
strength, Miss Cash."

The odd contrast between the old man,
dry, thin, and work-worn, and the well-knit,
young figure, clear eyes, and healthily
tinted skin of the girl, gave a touch of grotesque
to the warning. Viola made some
pretty little, gently serious answer ; then
Mr. Woodman drew back, for iNIillie was
introducing Mrs. Cash and her daughter
to the fourth lady of the party, a INIrs.

Brattle, elderly, stout, and an old friend.
Millie's own mind was a little perturbed
by the punctuality of Mr. Pelham ; the
clock had stirred Itself to strike  It really
was rather too bad of Uncle Charles not to
be here. In this anxiety she gave no heed
to her brother until Mr. Pelham had arrived
and every one was duly seated at
table. Orlando and Viola were together,
and both appeared well satisfied. The
sisterly eye of Millie discerned a happier
keenness in Orlando's face, a more frequent
smile, a greater readiness and brightness of
speech. In so small a party, the conversation
could hardly be other than general ;
but Orlando, more than once, turned to
Viola with that tone of appeal, natural,
habitual, and certain of response, which
makes the most eloquent witness of Inner
and assured alliance. Viola's own contributions
were slight, pleasant, and in a very
marked degree unassuming. She listened,

with a bright light in her face, to the

o o

college reminiscences of Mr. Woodman,
but was careful to keep herself from being
included in mere university gossip, from
which Millie, Mrs. Brattle, and her mother
must be shut out. Millie, watching, began
to think that, after all, she gave no token
of particular cleverness, and was merely
a fresh, bright girl, with a pleasant, spontaneous
manner. Nor was she. she thought,
very pretty. Wherein lay the charm that
had delighted Orlando, when so many
other women, no less clever and very
much prettier, had failed ? Mr. Woodman,
too, seemed inclined to address himself
rather especially to her. Millie could
hardly understand it, and began to ascribe
to Viola the admittedly mysterious and
inscrutable qualities which make a ' man's
beauty.'

But by-and-by, when they were in the
drawing-room, it was willie's turn to

experience the same attraction. Mrs.
Brattle and Mrs. Cash were engaged in a
discourse upon some domestic social topic,
and Millie devoted herself to entertaining
Viola. The first staoe of likings came with
the discovery that she was easy to be
entertained ; she was responsive, showed
interest in what was said to her, and spoke
simply and pleasantly of ordinary things
without herself being ordinary. When
she spoke, when she smiled, when she
listened with bright intentness, her charm
became undeniable. And, after all, was
she not pretty ? Millie, having once fallen
under the charm, found it, as her brother
had done, quite impossible not to go on
watching and becoming more and more
drawn towards her. Some months later,
when she was reading the newly published
volume of * Daniel Deronda,' from a copy
belonging to Orlando, she found this
passage marked by a pencil-mark running

down the margin : " The most powerful
beauty Is that which reveals itself after
sympathy and not before It. There Is a
charm of eye and lip which comes with
every little phrase that certifies delicate
perception and fine judgment, with every
unostentatious word or smile that shows a
heart awake to others ; and no sweep of
garment or turn of figure Is more satisfying
than that which enters as a restorative of
confidence that one person is present on
whom no intention will be lost." Millie
was quite sure, as she read those lines, of
whom her brother had been thinking when
he emphasized them thus.

Presently she discovered other virtues,
among them an interest in crewel-work for
which she had not dared to hope. They
were still upon this theme, when Orlando
came in with his uncle and Mr. Woodman.
Viola was sitting In a rather lower
chair at Millie's side, and was explaining,

by example, some process of tracing
patterns.

That is the way my brother-in-law does
his cartoons," she was saying, " or rather,
the way Julia does them for him."

Orlando came round to look. Mr.
Woodman, too, found his way to that
corner. Gilbert, who had delayed a
moment to open an important letter, drew
aside Mr. Pelham, that they might fight
out a political debate.

But that is not how you do your own
designs," said Orlando to Viola. " I have
seen you draw them with a pencil as you
go on."

*' Oh, that is my laziness. I like to
work from the real thing, and just draw a
guiding line or two. But you could not
draw with a pencil on this dark silk."

A lady whom I know at Cambridge is
always urging me to work in rebels," Mr.
Woodman remarked. " She assures me

that it is the only kind of employment
which really rests the brain, because it
requires just so much attention as prevents
you from thinking of other things. It
is said that her husband, an extremely
learned man, and an old friend of mine,
embroidered all the chairs in their drawings


His hearers laughed, and Viola said,
with a little air of meditation, " I rather
think she is right ; and I am sure that, if
you are inclined to follow her advice, any
of your pupils at Newnham would feel
honoured by being allowed to instruct
you."

Mr. Woodman, smiling rather grimly,
shook his head. '' I am afraid it would
be rather late in the day, Miss Cash. I
fear my fingers would scarcely now
acquire the needful dexterity and lissom-ness.
The offer is very tempting, but I
think I must content myself with my pipe

our poor masculine substitute for such
graceful labours."

It used to be a very melodious pipe in
my days," said Orlando ; and the old man
smiled graciously, pleased at this recollection
of his flute.

Ah, I have given that up, of late years,
Sherborne. But I was very much attached
to my flute. It is a great companion to a
lonely man. You don't play any instrument,
I think, yourself ? "

'* No," answered Orlando, unsuspicious
of the remembrance which prompted the
words.

'' Not even the key-bugle ? " suggested
Mr. Woodman.

Orlando laughed, and Millie looked up
inquiringly.

*your brother, Mrs. Oakes, was supposed
to be the undergraduate who enlivened
the tedium of college life by exact
imitations, on his voice, of the calls of a
key-bugle."

A confessing smile on Orlando's part
confirmed the supposition.

*'Ah, we hear from you a true account
of Orlando's behaviour at college. I am
sure I hope he won't teach Charlie to utter
bugle-calls."

I am happy to say that I don't think
it could be taught' said Mr. Woodman.
It remained unique, and I am sure that
imitation would have arisen, if imitation
had been possible. I think it must be
considered a lost art."

*' And it had its advantages too, Millie,"
Orlando assured his sister. "It was a
useful as well as an elegant accomplishment.
I quite regret having lost it."

'' And you always gave us to understand
that you were such an exemplary young
man at college," said Millie.

'' So I was. I am sure my memory
must be cherished still. I never hurt any
man's feelings by outshining him."

VOL. III. G

Viola looked up rather quickly and
opened her lips to speak ; then stopping
short, she looked suddenly down again,
and for the first time In Orlando's knowledge
of her seemed confused and coloured
a little. For a minute or so she was
silent, and let the others talk without her.
Then she looked up again, and took her
part as brightly as before. The acutest
observer would hardly have guessed how
sudden and surprising a knowledge had
come home to her In that brief Interval.

Very soon afterwards, the two elder
ladles showed signs of finishing their
debate ; Millie moved towards them and
amalgamated the two groups into one.
Then Mr. Pelham, having said all that he
cared to say to Gilbert, moved deliberately
across to Viola and entered into conversation.
Mr. Pelham s conversation partook
of the nature of monologue, and was
generally addressed either to a single

docile listener or to a collected audience,
whom he treated as one individual. Millie
saw that he remained by Viola's side, and
knew that he would not have done so if he
had not found her a good listener. He
was the last of her guests to leave, and she
took the opportunity of privately asking
him, before he went away, what he thought
of Miss Cash. He, with a slight smile and
observant glance, aware of all the thoughts
which she fancied so well hidden, answered


'' I think whatever you do, which, as you
know, does not happen to us very often."

Millie was too much engaged in considering
what this might mean to make
any further inquiry. The question and
answer had passed at the moment of her
uncle's departure, and she came back to
Orlando and Gilbert, looking completely
puzzled. But she was not allowed time
to reflect upon the riddle, for Gilbert,
coming to sit by her, said at once 

Millie, I have had a letter from Elizabeth."


*eyes. Why, what Is It, Gilbert? Is
anything the matter ? "

Orlando looked up, no less anxious.

'' Her father is dead," said Gilbert,
putting the letter Into Millie's hands.

*' Oh, Gilbert ! " said she, her eyes filling
with easy-coming tears.

Orlando said nothing, but turned pale
the usual token with him of emotion.

I suppose you will go out to her ?
Perhaps we had both better go," said
Millie, slowly.

'' Read what she says. She seems as If
she really would rather be alone. You see,
Bannacker and his wife are there. What
do you really think ? You see, she says
she only wants rest and quiet, and that
when she feels stronger she will come home
slowly with Mrs. Bannacker. I think, if
you will write to her, Millie, It will perhaps

be best. Tell her that of course she must
come to us, the sooner the better. And if
she feels the least wish for us, let her
telegraph at once. Poor Lizzie ! it is a
worn-out, weary-hearted sort of letter."

Millie, with a sigh, gave it back.

I wonder whether she is still thinking
about that horrid Captain Grove. I can't
help it, Gilbert ; I am glad he is dead. We
will nurse her up and make much of her,
when once we get her here. Dear Lizzie,
she has always had to look after other
people."

She went to a writing-table. Orlando
had stepped out upon the wide balcony,
with its spaces of dark sky above the
lights of London. The slender crescent
of the moon, white and thin, like worn
silver, stood high, but shed but little light.
Presently Gilbert too came out.

Poor Lizzie ! " said he, after they had
been standing a moment or so in silence.

Was Major Glendlnning's death very
sudden ? " asked Orlando.

"Death is always sudden, I think. He
had been ill, you know, these four years,
sometimes more, sometimes less. One
hardly seemed to look for any change, I
am thankful to think she is coming home."

Millie's voice from within called
"Gilbert!" and Gilbert, pushing aside the
curtain, went in.

Orlando stood still upon the balcony,
leaning on the balustrade, looking down
upon the dark tree-tops, the moving lights,
the comings and goings, the stir and motion
of the town. He heard the rattling wheels,
the shriek of trains, the deep-voiced hum
of the city coming up from below. Faraway,
Elizabeth was sitting fatherless and
a stranger. Whatever new hopes and new
faces had come into his life, there was none
strong enough as yet to turn that remembrance
pale.

SELF-CONFESSED.

Said Sir Againe, Is that knight that owneth the shield
your love ?
Yea, truly, said she, my love he is ; God would I were his
love!"

Morte (Parthia.

Viola sat with her mother and Silvia the
next morning". She was less quietly self-possessed
than usual. Her colour came
and went. A sudden word made her-start ;
more than once she showed that she had
not heard what was said. She herself
took hardly any part in their conversation.
She was working, embroidering from a
wreath of bryony lying, in a little water, on
a large plate, but it was not her work
which engaged her thoughts.

For the first time her feellncrs had stolen
a march upon her ; she had been taken by
surprise, and she could not yet become
reconciled to her changed self. The past
presented itself in new colours ; that which
had been a trifling part of the future had
become of most absorbing interest, and
many hopes. Important hitherto, dwindled
Into matters of small account. What was
she to Orlando ? Did he think of her as
she of him ? Who could decide ? Certainly
not Viola. She could only tell herself
that henceforth she must never again
utter outspoken praise, like that which had
grown silent on her lips last night, and
revealed her to herself. She felt that it
would be difficult to her ever to speak of
him again. How could she do so without
deception ? Then she heard his name
spoken between her mother and sister.

"It Is always pleasant to me to be In the
same room with Mr. Sherborne, If It Is

only for the sake of hearing his voice," said
Silvia. " I know no one with so agreeable
a voice."

'' It is quite a pity," said her mother,
smiling, 'that it should not belong to a
clergyman or a lecturer. Mr. Sherborne
really has no special need for a voice that
makes people listen to him."

But if he goes into parliament," said
Viola, quickly.

Does he think of it ? " asked her
mother, looking up with interest.

*' I believe so, by-and-by," Viola answered.


''He has altered very much since we
knew him first, has he not ? " said Silvia
again, after a minute or two.

Yes ; I never thought he would do so
much. There was a certain easy, pleasant,
almost over-refined manner about him that
was likely enough to degenerate into mere
agreeable indolence."

They passed to other topics. Viola's
mind remained upon the one. She grew
restless ; her work did not satisfy her.
She would go and meet Cecily, who would
be comines home from a lesson in the
Primrose Hill district. She started ; and,
as she went on, her thoughts cleared. To
free thought, as to a beginning friendship,
walking is propitious. She began to
understand herself, and to see her way.
She must be a little less frank and direct,
henceforth, than nature and custom had
taught her to be, hitherto. Until now, she
had been pleased to meet Mr. Sherborne,
and had shown her pleasure openly. But
now she felt herself shrink back. There
must be nothing like seeking on her part ;
nor must any living creature be suffered to
guess at what was in her heart ; not her
mother, not Silvia, not Cecily.

A slight colour rose into her face at the
recollection that Orlando was wealthy, and

of a rank that would be held higher than
her own. Such considerations as these
she regarded in the abstract as quite unworthy
to be balanced in a case of love ;
but their recollection sharpened her pride.
She felt, at the moment, as if she would be
glad to escape from the place where she
was likely to meet him. If she were away,
then, if he came after her, that would be
different. As to his beincr in London for
the sake of seeing her, it was mere vanity
which could suesfest such an idea. What
was more natural than that he should be
here with his own people  in the season,
too ? Thus she said to herself, reproving
her hopes. But they were rebellious, and
would not be entirely suppressed.

She met Cecily, and Cecily noticed
something unusual in her sisters appearance,
but could not exactly determine its
character.

'' You are not unwell, are you, Viola ? "

she said presently, in a pause of their
talk.

Oh dear, no ; what makes you ask ? "

Viola was almost defiant ; and Cecily

replied, more meekly 'than usual, " I don't

know ; I thought you did not look quite

right. It is not a sin to be ill, you know."

They reached home, and one of the

first sounds which came to Viola's ears was

that of Orlando's voice. She felt herself

turn red, and thanked the dim light of the

entrance hall for covering her blushes.

She was angry with herself for an emotion

which she mentally denoted ' imbecile,'

and walked upstairs, scolding herself. But,

once in her own room, she feared to comedown

again. How could she, in this

absurd state, answer for what her face

might betray ? She was actually trembling ;

it was too idiotic. A murmured quotation

came to her lips, concerning ' the soft and

milky rabble of womankind.' Then the

comic side of her dismay struck her, and
she laughed at herself. With the laugh
came courage, and she went down, to all
appearance, undisturbed.

Orlando had brought a note from Millie
to Silvia. Viola saw the note later, and
In her unsuspicious heart did not conceive
any notion of diplomacy on the part of Its
writer.

Dear Mrs. Markwick,

'' I am afraid I made an omission,
yesterday. In asking your little boy to spend
the day with Charlie tomorrow. I did
not say anything to Mrs. Cash about their
going to play In the Park Crescent
Gardens, of which we have the key, and
which are Charlie's favourite play-place.
I remember that you said your little boy
had had a cough. Should you be afraid
for him to spend the afternoon out of
doors ? I know I am a fidget about my

own flock, and would not for worlds expose
your dear little boy to taking cold. With
kind regards, very sincerely yours,

MiLLICENT Oases."

Silvia had already assured Orlando that
she had no fears, and that little Charlie
(for the children were namesakes) had
quite recovered from his cold. When
Viola came In, the conversation had wandered
far from that starting-point, and was
dealing with current political questions.
Viola was thankful to find that she could
speak and bear herself In much the ordinary
manner. She drew her plate of
bryony towards her, and continued her
embroidering.

'you express my view so ably," Mrs.
Cash said, resuming her conversation,
*' that I can only hope to see you expounding
It *In another place'"

"How do you know my secret ambition
? " asked Orlando, smlllno-.

'' Viola said something about it, and I
could not but feel that I should very much
like to see you in parliament. There's a
great lack of crotchets intelligence
there."

Orlando had looked across to Viola with
a bright light in his face. Her thoughts
of his future harmonized, then, with his
own. Some dim notion of Numb and
Egeria floated through his brain. Viola's
glance did not reply ; she was bending
over her flowers. Orlando felt that, unless
she looked up and spoke, his visit would
be unsatisfactory. He drew a little nearer,
and fixing his eyes upon her work, said,
You are resting your brain, I see."

She smiled, looked up, and said, " Yes."

This should surely have been enough ;
but her attention went back to her embroidery,
and the desire to draw it to
himself again returned.

I may hope that you would vote

for me, then, Miss Cash, If you had a
vote ? "

The speech was not Hke Orlando's.
Viola felt, disliked, and knew not to what
to attribute th. falsetto.

Oh yes  if you represented my views,
and my voting district."

At this point Cecily came in, and seemed
to bring fresh air with her.

''Oh, Mr. Sherborne," said she, 'have
you come to ask me about your book ?
I am ashamed to say I have not quite
finished it. Cadi you let me have it a
little longer ? "

Please keep it as long as you like. I
did not come with any thought of it at all.
But I hope you are not reading it to the
end from a feeling of obligation."

No, indeed," said Cecily, not without
indignation. " But I have very little time ;
and Browning won't bear reading when
one Is tired, and cannot give full attention.

I believe Viola has read it three or four
times already ; and Silvia, who does not
generally care very much for Browning, is
enraptured by ' Any Wife to any husbands"'


'' Does Mrs. Markwick know the transcription
of ' Alcestis ' ? " asked Orlando.

It was said to Cecily, for Silvia was
writing her note of reply to Millie ; but
she looked up to answer herself.

Oh yes ; it is beautiful ; but, then, I
thought the beauty belonged to Euripides.
Viola said so."

'surely did I, Silvia."

It was before you had read ' Exhaustion,'
" Silvia admitted.

I thought I had heard you defending
Browning against your brother-in-law,"
said Orlando to Viola.

'' In his heart, I believe, Harry admires
him as much as we do, else why do the
quotations come up so often ? Oh yes ;

VOL. ni. H

Cecily and I are hearty believers In
Browning."

*' So sincere," added Cecily, 'that we
don't feel It necessary to run down anyone
else In order to exalt him."

Mrs. Cash and Orlando laughed, and
the discussion was closed for that time.
Silvia's note was given to Orlando, who
soon after took his departure ; but not
before he had said, a little abruptly, to
Viola, '' I have been to the architect this
morning about the plans for my school.
I am to have them In about ten days.
May I bring them In for you to see ? "

Oh, do, please ; we shall be so much
interested. Mamma, do you hear what
Mr. Sherborne Is saying ? There Is a
prospect of some more school-plans for you
to study."

*what! you have come to the plans
already, Mr. Sherborne ? I thought you
did not propose to build until next year."

'' I cannot have the ground until September,
but I thought it was a good
opportunity to get the plans out while I
was making some stay up here."

You are going to stay on in London,
then ?" said Cecily. '' Harry declared you
had taken a vow against it."

I ? Oh no ; I am rather fond of
London when I have time to spare, and
I really have earned a holiday now. Don't
you think I have, ]<Irs. Cash ? "

Yes, indeed I do. Do you conscientiously
measure out your work and
your holidays-time ? " asked Mrs. Cash,
smiling, as she shook hands with him.

The afternoon went on quietly enough ;
it seemed to Viola very long, and like the
first day among strange surroundings.
Her embroidery became unendurable to
her ; she fetched her Greek books, and set
herself resolutely to work. That helped
the time until the tea hour, and the most
trying portion of the day was gone.

- While they were at tea, Duncannon
came in. He was a Httle less jubilant
than usual ; his work was progressing,
indeed, but he could not satisfy himself
in it. Suddenly, as Viola was standing
with her arm raised, to replace a book
upon a shelf, he exclaimed, " Why, there
it is ! Viola, when are you coming to
Sherborne ? "

Viola turned round, and asked, colouring
a little, " What do you mean ? "

Your figure is the very thing I want.
I have been looking for a good model all
the morning. Come down, and stand tome
for Elaine."

Surely, Harry, I am not like Elaine ? "

Not in face, my child ; but your tall,
slight figure will just suit me. I shall put
off Elaine until you come."

'' Oh, I will come now, if you like. I
don't mean this moment, but tomorrow,
if Julia can have me."

Will you ? But don't you want to stay
up here ? "

''No. I was just thinking I should like
a change. I could go to Sherborne tomorrow,
could not I, mamma ? "

Yes, dear, easily, if you are inclined. I
should like you to have some of your holiday
 I beg your pardon, your vacation  in
the country. If Harry and Julia can have
you, I shall be glad to hand you over."

Very well, Harry ; if tomorrow morning
you don't telegraph to the contrary,
I shall come down. You need not trouble
about meeting me  unless, indeed, you can
get some one to fetch my modest trunk.
As I don't expect that, I shall come like
Mrs. Elton, ' with a little basket hanging
on my arm.' "

All right," said Duncannon ; " I'll report
accordingly. I don't think you need expect
a telegram. Any other message for
Julia, beyond the general love ? "

Viola felt much relieved when this
decision had been made. A quiet week
or two at Sherborne seemed, just now, the
repose for which her soul longed. The
daily and hourly possibility of meeting
Orlando was painfully disturbing. But he,
he said, was going to stay in London, and
she would surely not meet him again
before tomorrow afternoon. In this assurance
she was, however, mistaken. They
were now in the early days of July, and it
happened that there was not in the house
a railway guide for the new month. She
went out, therefore, to the neighbouring
terminus, to make certain of her train. She
had not gone many steps when she saw
Orlando, coming from north to south,
towards her. She was walking quickly,
and putting on her gloves as she walked,
and when they met she gave him her
unloved hand with a little air of surprise.


Do you know," said he, " that it was
ahiiost on this very piece of pavement that
I saw you first?"

No, was it ? I don't remember."

"No, I did not suppose you would.
And you had no gloves on then."

Oh, you know, then, that they all laugh
at me for that old bad habit. I learned
it when I used to go only a street's length
to school. But I don't know that it is so
bad a habit. I think I shall write a
defence of putting on one's gloves in the
street."

I think you must have been going to
school when I saw you ; you had a strap-ful
of books."

I don't know ; I have forgotten. I
suppose it must have been when I was
going up for the Senior Local."

'' Before that, I think. You wore your
hair hanging down."

The brown eyes looked meditative.

*' Oh, before I went to Germany for the
first time. Why, I must have been about
fourteen."

Yes, I dare say sou were."

'' I wonder that you remember It."

'' I had reason to remember the day  on
other grounds," he answered, with a Httle
change of countenance.

She, at this point, made a motion to
continue her road.

Orlando, turning, asked, '' May I walk
a little way with you ? " and they walked
on together.

I have just come from the station
here," said he again ; " I have been down
in the City all the morning."

I should have thought Portland Road
would have been your station," said Viola.

'' Yes, but I am going to see a man in
High Holborn," he answered, rather
quickly.

Was it possible, she asked herself, that

he could imagine she had meant to hint
a suspicion of his coming that way on her
account ? But it would be unlike him to
think uncharitably of other people, or with
vanity of himself And in any case how
stupid it was to be wondering in this way
what he thought.

And now, as they reached the. end of
Gower Street, she stopped, and looking up
with her natural, frank smile, bade him
turn back.

'' Really, you must not come any farther
out of your way. You will be late for
luncheon at your sister's."

So they shook hands and parted, and
Orlando went about his business in High
Holborn with no suspicion that Viola intended
to take flight from Gower Street
that afternoon.

CHAPTER VI.

IN THE TRIE OF NIGHTINGALES.

'"''Liicile, Et depuis son retour

II nous vient visiter une ou deux fois par jour.
Laure. Purest ce que cela prouve ?
Liicile, Oh ! rien. Deux jeunes filles

Out dix-huit et vingt ans et passent pour gentilles ;
Un jeune homme Stranger vient chez elles souvent,
Ce n'est que pour parler de la phiie et du vent."

Poniard, ' L'Honneiir et V Argent

It was a still, sunny afternoon. Duncan-non
and Viola were alone in the long, light
dining-hall of the Haverdikes' new house.
The walls presented a strange, incomplete
appearance. At one end was the finished
panel, representing King Arthur's coronation
 a really fine picture, with only the
blemish of newness upon it At the opposite
end, outlined in black and white, but

not yet painted In, was the design for the
last act of the drama  the dying king,
borne on the shoulders of his last remaining
knight, and before them the black barge,
and the three queens with extended arms.
The earlier spring-time and summer-time
panels were nearly finished ; the autumnal
and winter ones stood blank. About the
room were standing strange apparatus,
platforms, screens, an easel or two, and
large stretchers, upon which the cartoons
were fixed ; mysterious draperies and bits
of armour; a pile of great books, the uppermost
lying open, and showing an engraving
of antique jewellery. Among all this
stood Viola at one end of the room, her
face turned towards the wall, and showing
little more than its right cheek. She wore
a quaint, half-classic, half-mediaeval gown.
Her brirfit, light-brown hair, unfastened
from its usual style, hung in a thick stream
across her left shoulder to her waist, and

was bound by a gilt circlet, which held
it in place below and pushed it into
rebellious waves above. Her hands, arranged
in such a fashion that the partly-bare
right arm formed a most graceful
line, rested upon what should have
been Lancelot's shield, but was  alas, for
romance !  a tea-tray. Putting aside this
anachronism, the girl's figure made as
charming a picture as could be desired,
and Duncannon, painting away at the distance
of several yards, was well satisfied
with his model.

They hardly spoke. Earlier in the afternoon
Duncannon had been telling  led, as
it seemed to both of them, by chance  of
his Welsh journeying with Orlando. Then
had followed much praise, derived from
later knowledge here in Sherborne. Dun-cannon
had the nature of a thorough-going
partisan ; the good qualities of his friends,
and the faults of his enemies, presented

themselves to him in good, clear black and
white, so that Orlando was duly exalted in
his description, and Viola could listen with
great satisfaction.

Towards the close of the sitting, however,
conversation had flaoeed. The
painter's whole attention had become absorbed
by his work. Viola, too, growing
tired of her fatiguing employment  more
exhausting in its enforced immobility than
hard work  had lapsed into silence, and
was recalling Orlando's praises with slow,
ruminating pleasure. Presently came interruption.
One of the doors of the room
was opened softly, and Viola heard Julia's
voice.

'' Mr. Sherborne wants to know whether
he may come in and see how you are
getting on."

Sherborne ! Oh yes; let him come in."

Then the door creaked again ; a fresh
step was heard, and the two men greeted
each other.

Viola still stood motionless, and asked
without turning her head, 'rare you going
on, Harry, or may I move ? "

'' Oh, five minutes more, please, Viola.
I shall never get your dress just the same
again. Will you wait a minute, you two ?
You'll find a lot of books if you'll sit down
in that corner."

They sat down obediently, but Orlando
did not devote his attention to the books.
Viola, as Elaine, vas a much more interesting
example of costume. His eyes were
fascinated by that smooth-waving, golden-brown
mass of hair, whose loose ends were
growing used to freedom and beginning to
assert their rioht to curl. It would have
afforded him the keenest pleasure to draw
it through his hands  if it might only be
done without her knowledge. Next, he
desired that she would turn round. And
this, being a wish within the bounds of
reason, was presently gratified. Duncan-non

painted his last stroke, laid down his
brush reluctantly, and set his model free.
Turning promptly, she came down the
long room, her left hand holding her mock
shield and raising her long skirt, her right
free to give Orlando. To him her appearance
was eminently satisfying; to herself
there was an uncomfortable feeling of being
untidy and but half dressed.

'' You put us all out of date," said he.

I can assure you that I feel very much
out of date myself  rather as if I had
come down to bre akfast without doing m}
hair."

'' You did not tell me you were coming
to Sherborne," said Orlando again, with a
slight inflection of reproach in his voice.

And you did not tell me yoti were
coming," she returned, smiling.

To that, Orlando had no reply, and she,
holding out Lancelot's shield (and in that
action suggesting to her practical and

artistic sister a useful modification of the
domestic caryatid, who hitherto bears only
lamps), continued, 'there, Julia; I have
taken great care of your tray, and preserved
it watchfully from Harry's paint
fingers."

Julia received the tray, and Viola slipped
away to exchange the garb of Elaine for
that of the nineteenth century.

She came back looking like herself, and
like herself in her happiest mood. To
Orlando's eyes the glamour still hung
about her.

At the moment of her reappearance,
Duncannon was exclaiming in an emphatic
manner. Turning to her, he said, '' Why,
Viola, you and Sherborne have been conspiring.
He has been saying just what
you say."

'' Not at all, Harry. It is only that the
beauties and the defects of your work are
patent to any unprejudiced eye," Viola

replied lightly. And coming to stand at
her brother-in-law's elbow, she Inquired
Into the details of Mr. Sherborne's opinion.

Orlando, on his part, preferred to think
that their agreement was a matter of Inner
sympathy, but prudently refrained from
saying so. Before leaving, he paused to
look attentively at the work In progress.
Julia made some slight remark upon the
details of execution, and appealed to him.
He almost started ; his mind had been
Intent upon no artistic criticism, but upon
the flow of Viola's hair.

The four walked down together to that
temporary home which had become dear
In these few months, not only to Dun-cannon
and Julia, but also to Viola and
Orlando. Julia, who had been rather
silent, and had looked a little grave, regained
her usual cheerfulness. She had
been weighing In her mind the relation of
Orlando to her sister, and had resolved to

VOL. HI. I

resign any further attempt at ungracious
prudence. After all, if Mr. Sherborne
chose to eo to London when Viola was
there, and come back into the country as
soon as Viola was here, it would be of
very little avail that she should take upon
herself the uncongenial part of a duenna.
When, therefore, Orlando begged to be
allowed to carry her tray, she yielded it
smilingly, and permitted herself to say, " I
have not Viola's great objection to having
my burdens carried for me."

'' Is the objection founded on principle ?"

Orlando asked, looking across to Viola.
I like to think so, but my natural

contradictoriness has something to do

with it."

I remember," observed Duncannon,

*' that the first time I saw you, you snubbed

me severely for offering to carry your

school-books for you."

Did I .' I am very sorry ; but you

must own that you have had ample retaliation
since."

I have become resigned of late years,"
said he, looking up with a keen smile and
brightening eyes at the blueness of the
sky, crossed by the light, bright leaves.

This intense under-depth of delight in
all natural beauty was perhaps the fundamental
likeness rendering explicable the
friendship between himself and Orlando in
many outward 'ways so unlike. As they
turned in at the garden gate Orlando perceived
upon the well-known lawn certain
diagrammatic markings in white chalk.

Lawn-tennis ? " said he, interrogative'.

*' Yes," replied Duncannon ; '' can you
play?"

*' In a degree."

"A superlative or only a comparative
degree ? Viola is too strong for us, and
we should hail with joy any ally who would
defeat her, or at least equalize the powers."

'' I am afraid that is hardly likely. I did
not graduate at Newnham."

We will hope, all the same," said Julia,
no longer restraining her natural Inclination
to make her guest welcome. And reclaiming
her tea-tray she went smiling Into the
kitchen, to bid Sarah hasten tea and provide
for one consumer more.

Orlando fancied that the arrangements
of this little dining-room had a gracefulness
which was wanting in the far handsomer
rooms of his own house. He looked round
and wondered wherein the difference lay.
Surely the basket of flowers hanging in the
window, and the climbing roses nodding in
across the window-frame, could not suffice
to produce so marked an effect. It appeared
to him that the very cups and
saucers had a more genial expression than
his own. Presently Viola took her seat
opposite to him at the table, and he left off
observing the room. Her presence made

an atmosphere of completion, in which he
fel himself altogether at ease. It might
have been curious to know what answer he
would have given If he had been suddenly
challenged to define his feeling towards
her. He certainly would not have declared
at once that he was In love with her, for
he had been In love with Elizabeth, and
this affection was entirely different from
what he had felt then. He might, perhaps,
have said that she inspired him with the
fullest and most satisfying friendship which
he had ever known. There was, he
thought, no question upon which he would
have been afraid to speak the truth to her,
or doubtful of receiving from her a comprehending
and truthful reply.

As for Viola, complete and unreflective
happiness had returned. Until to-day she
had been oppressed by gravity ever since
that moment of self revelation in Mrs.
Oakes's drawing-room. But now the yoke

was lifted ; she felt herself once more free
and at ease, and was content not to seek
into her heart for causes.

They went out, presently, to lawn-tennis.
The game was yet too new for the various
accessories of lawn-tennis dresses, aprons,
and pockets which have since grown up.
Duncannon, however, produced a pale-blue
flannel cap, which he handled very tenderly
and proceeded to put on.

'what an odd cap!" said Orlando.
How did you come by it ? How was it
made, and who invented it ? "

'' I came by it through the munificence
and ingenuity of my accomplished sister-in-law
here. How it was made I do not
precisely know, nor to whom the invention
is due, but as a cap for lawn-tennis it
leaves nothing to be desired." He fitted
it on as he spoke, and it formed a close
skull-cap which no stooping or sudden
motion could dislodge.

It Is a ' Capitoline bandage,' " explained
Viola. 'willie Miller, who used
to be a pupil of Julia's, and who is a
medical student, was staying with us, and
would practise bandaging upon all our
heads. Cecily suggested that they should
play football in these bandages by way of
caps, and the bright idea occurred to me to
make one in flannel for lawn-tennis. Harry
wanted to have it in Oxford blue, but that
I naturally could not allow."

Does it take much flannel ? " asked
Orlando.

Duncannon began to laugh.

I thought you would want one too ;
but I don't think you could possibly make
one for yourself. The original bandaging
is rather a long operation, but, with care,
it keeps its shape perfectly. I dare say
Viola will make one for you."

"Certainly, if you like," said Viola,
colouring just a little. '' It is a useful

knowledge to keep up, and I have not
made one now for a long time."

Oh, but not now, Viola," said Julia.
"Wait until it gets too dark to play."

Until the darkness fell they played on
with steady vigour. It became apparent
that Orlando was an adversary worthy
of Viola's utmost skill. The balance of
dexterity and practice was on her side,
but her eagerness made her sometimes
overhasty, and Orlando's aim had that
superior steadiness in which, thus far, the
male half of humanity must be acknowledged
superior. And he played honestly,
desiring to win if he could, and fully
conscious that thus he pleased her better
than by any shuffling attempt to yield hera
false triumph. In the twilight they went
indoors. The remnant of flannel was produced,
and the strips torn off were sewn
into one of sufficient length. Then Orlando,
sitting down, submitted to Viola's

bandaging, and found himself recalling, as-appropriate,
the idea of Elaine. The cap,
when put on, was pronounced quite becoming
; and Orlando, having received this
assurance, declared that he must keep it
on, in order to mould it to the shape of his
head.

Presently some one mentioned the nightingale,
and Orlando was asked whether
there were nightingales at Sherborne.

Certainly there are. I have heard
them often in the woods just below here."

'' Do you know," said Julia, " I have
never heard a nightingale  or, at least, I
have never known that I have."

Let us go out and see whether they
are to be heard now," said her husband.
It is a glorious night."

The sisters went to fetch hats and
shawls, and they passed out into the still,
sweet-scented evening, Orlando still wearing
the pale-blue flannel cap, which, taken

in conjunction with his dark hair and eyes,
gave him rather the air of a melodramatic
pirate. The moon was by this time up
but was obscured by floating clouds. Their
steps sounded dully on the path, neither
damp nor dry. They walked in silence,
watching the dark shades of the twigs
against the dim sky. Suddenly came the
mellow, tremulous, unmistakable note
floating out above them, and setting astir
all that perfume of poetry which has
spiritualized the nightingale to all nations
who hear her voice. The moon slid out
for a moment from behind a thin covering
of cloud. Orlando saw that, as they stood
listening, Julia's hand was in her husband's.
Viola was a little behind. The white
half-light, falling upon her upturned face,
gave it a softened beauty greater than
belonged to it by day. The moon slid
into darkness and into lioht again. The
nightingale sang on and on, then suddenly

Stopped short, and left emptiness in the
air. They walked on slowly, hoping to
hear it again ; but it kept silence, and
presently the lowered human voices rose.

'And well it not come again ?  and will
it not come again'" said Julia, with a long-drawn
breath.

Then Duncannon, who was in love with
the shifting moonlight, entreated them to
ofo on farther  to the end, at least, of the
trees ; and Orlando added that the nightingale
was often to be heard in the wooded
hollows round his own house, if they cared
to come so far. They walked far enough
to see the moon shining down the ripples
of the Sherril, then Julia, pausing, declared
it needful that they should go home, or
Sarah would be alarmed.

Orlando bade them good night, and
went home in the opposite direction, not
sorry to recollect that his hat had been
left behind, and would require to be fetched
from the cottage in the morning.

That blue bandage-cap he took off, when
he reached home, with excessive care, set
it down before him, and looked at it from
different points of view with a smile of
great satisfaction.

CHAPTER VII.

viola's birthday.

I have found out a gift for my fair."

It had been mentioned to Orlando that
Mr. and Mrs. Haverdike were expected
home the next day. He was not, therefore,
surprised to come upon Mr. Haverdike, a
day or two after, as he himself was riding
home. They joined company, and the
happy art-patron very soon began to talk
of his new dining-room, and to express his
gratitude to Orlando for having introduced
him to Duncannon.

'sand besides being, as he unmistakably
is, a consummate artist, he is so extremely
pleasant a neighbour. His wife and sister

are exceptionally charming women. Mary
is delighted with them. They are quite
an addition to the neighbourhood. Don't
you think so ? "

'' I do, Indeed," Orlando answered, emphatically.


Mary has a little plan," pursued the
other. '' I don't know whether you happen
to know that Miss Cash's birthday Is on
the 15th. Mary has made up her mind to
have a water-excursion in honour of It  a
sort of river-picnic ; quite a small and
friendly affair, you know. I hope you will
join us."

Of course Orlando declared that he
would be delighted. His mind was, however,
a little distracted by an Idea which
had occurred to him at the mention of
Viola's birthday, and he hardly heard the
next few words. When his attention
again became awake, he found Mr. Haver-dike
saying, "It is not very often that

Mary takes a liking of that sort. Miss

Cash has quite fascinated her."

'' I fancy most women find Miss Cash

attractive," said Orlando. '' My sister was

very much taken with her."

I should imagine she would attract all

cultivated minds," Mr. Haverdike observed.

*' There is something very Greek about

her  a little the Nautical type."

Orlando had the words almost on his

lips, " Let us hope that her story may be a

happier one than Nautical's," but for some

unexplained cause he intercepted their

utterance, and Mr. Haverdike s road here

diverging, they parted with few more

words.

It wanted about a week to that 15th of
the month, and Orlando employed much
of the interval in far-stretching walks
through the most thickly wooded neighbouring
parts. These walks were by no
means confined to the footpaths. On the

contrary, he sought out the darkest and
most secluded nooks. He never gathered
anything, but seemed to note the different
spots In his memory. On one of these
excursions he had threaded to Its utmost
limit a Httle copse that here bordered the
road. The regular fall of hoofs came to
his ear. He lifted himself from his groping
among violet-leaves, and glancing over the
green and grey stained paling, caught
through a thick screen of boughs a glimpse
of two ladies riding forward, and bending
their faces a little towards each other as
they came. The nearer was Mrs. Haver-dike,
and surely the other was Viola. He
drew back, and stood quite still among the
leaves. They came nearer. He could
distinguish them now quite plainly ; could
see that Viola wore no orthodox habit, but
merely a long riding-skirt, with the bodice
of some dark-coloured dress. As they
came closer he could hear their voices,

then their words. Mrs. Haverdike seemed
to be speaking with emphatic earnestness,
but the first words which reached him were
Violas.

'' No, I am sure I should not have been
satisfied ; I should have wanted to go out
and fight too. Britomart was always my
favourite heroine."

Oh, but, my dear, the whole spirit of
chivalry depended upon the serene, starlike
supremacy of woman. It was the
very difference, the calmness, the distance,
the ewig-weibliche, that Inspired their lovers
to such heroic deeds. And the men felt it.
You remember Mrs. Browning s * Romaunt
of the Page,' the knight who

Evermore
Would love her as my servitor,
But little as my wife.' "

'' I always thought that knight was nota
very noble person," said Viola. '' I
should not at all have liked to be his wife,

VOL. III. K

either staying at home or fighting. It
seems to me that, as far as that was the
idea of chivalry, it was false, and could
only be kept up by artificial ways of life.
When the knight came to be married to his
lady-love, he must sooner or later have
discovered that she was a human being,
with troubles, temptations, and aspirations
very much like his own. And if he had
always looked upon her as a kind of angel,
the disenchantment must have led to very
much unhappiness  yes, and injustice too,
for nothing Is more unjust than unreasonable
expectations of perfection from other
people. I do believe that it is from the
days of chivalry that the idea has comedown
to novelists, of married life being a
prosaic existence, not suitable to write
about."

Oh, but I am sure you would not wish

any lover of yours " Mrs. Haverdike

began, but the rest of her speech was lost

in the passing tread of her groom's horse,
and Orlando heard no more. Smiling to
himself, he turned back into the shadowy
wood.

On the next day, which was the 14th,
he started out at an early hour, and made
the round of many places which he had
visited in the preceding days. From this
excursion he returned no longer, as before,
empty handed, but laden with more violets
than a casual observer would have thought
possible at this season. And In the evening
there came from London a carefully
packed box, containing pansies of every
shade and mingling of hues. These,
together with his own collected violets, he
set to work to arrange in a basket. The
pansies, carefully ordered with due regard
to their varying tints, occupied the centre ;
around them was the sweet-scented border
of violets, and a little edge of fine fern-leaves
fringed the whole. The grave

solicitude with which he laid these flowers
upon a builder-like foundation of damp
wool, with an upper surface of wet sand,
the consideration which went to the placing
of each stalk, might have belonged to some
task of national importance. Surely, this
anxious interest in so trivial an employment
was a little strange in a proverbially
practical young man, who believed that he
had outgrown the illusions and the dreams
of youth. Orlando, however, was too
much engrossed in his occupation to have
any attention at liberty for self-inquiry.
At last, the flowers were arranged to his
satisfaction ; he took them out into a dark,
cool place, and went to seek a youth, sober
beyond his years, who assisted in the
garden, and to whom he proposed to
entrust their delivery. But on second
thoughts he changed his mind, and turned
back into the library without giving any
direction concerning them.

He was out, the next morning, while
the dew was yet upon the fields, and the
sun low enough to spread a sloping golden
light across the placid river. The silence
of early morning still prevailed. He and
Rob were the only moving shapes among
the trees. A pale, thin line of smoke was
rising from one chimney of the village ;
here and there the first birds were waking ;
the leaves looked fresher and brighter-coloured
than at noon. Orlando himself
walked on with a serene, satisfied face,
feeling a joy in the stillness of the cool air,
a sense of rest and fulfilment in the green
lights and faint, long shadows. He came
out, at last, by the low garden wall of the
cottage, there hushed Rob, and bade him
wait, swung himself over  for the gate
was locked  and creeping softly along the
grass, vexed at the length of his shadow,
set the basket on the door-step and fled.
Being once more safe in the road at a few

yards' distance, he looked back upon the
house. The binds were still closed in all
the windows, and the few daisies on the
lawn had not yet opened their eyes.
Orlando looked for a moment with a smile
that miofht have been a benediction, then
turnings sauntered home thrush the
wakening woods, well pleased with his
morning's work.

Viola, waking presently to the serene
consciousness of a very sunny birthday,
rose and began to dress, singing gently to
herself. To her came Julia, just dressed
and eager.

*' Oh, Viola, look here ! " she cried, holding
out the sweet-scented basket of flowers.
'' Sarah found it on the door-step when she
went down. There cannot be much doubt
for whom it is meant."

Viola, looking, smiled radiantly, and
taking the basket, blushed slowly and
deeply from chin to forehead.

It must have been Mr. Sherborne,"
proceeded Jura.

Yes," said Viola ; and after a moment,
I trust this assortment of viola tricolor
is not meant to denote that I have what
Andrew Marvell calls a 'parti-coloured
mind'"

'' I wonder whether these violets grew
about here ? " said Julia, eschewing further
reference to the symbolism of pansies.
Then, hearing her husband whistling as he
walked about in the little dining-room, she
hastened down to give him his breakfast ;
and Viola remained gazing into the flower-cups
and hearing, as a background to her
thoughts, those words of Ophelia, which
each sister had had in her mind and neither
had been willing to quote.

Orlando, having begun his day so unusually
early, had time to arrange sundry
small business matters before going to join
Mrs. Haverdike's water-party. He had

observed during his rambles several portions
of fence-work which needed to be
renewed, and had perceived that a little
gutter, running across one of the Sherborne
Lodge copses, wanted clearing out. All
these little matters being despatched, he set
out once more upon that now familiar path
towards the cottage, Rob accompanying ina
less regular progression. He reflected,
with some annoyance as he walked, that
one day this week he must go to London,
and thence to those Capton lands which
lay in Hampshire, at an awkward distance
from Sherborne. Probably he would be
obliged to be away two or three days.
The idea was very displeasing. Seriously,
it might be as well to sell those lands. If,
for instance, he were to marry, and were to
be successful in getting into parliament  a
scheme which had taken much more settled
form since he knew that Viola had made
allusion to it  it would be extremely trying

to have to go down to Capton every three
months or so. At that point he stopped
short his runaway thoughts and laughed at
himself. But thus the recognition came to
him of a new hope in his life.

As he came in sight of the strip of road
dividing Mr. Haverdike's house from the
cottage, he saw Viola, Julia, and Duncan-non
advancing from its one end, while
Mrs. Haverdike advanced from the other,
accompanied by a tall young brother whom
he had met before, and who was in the chrysalis
state between Eton and Cambridge.
Hastening his steps, he came up with them
at the moment of meetings. There was
a brief Babel of greetings and birthday
wishes. He saw with satisfaction that
Viola was wearing a tiny bunch of pansies
and violets in the front of her liorht dress.
Mrs. Haverdike explained that her husband
had gone down to the river-bank to make
sure that the boats were ready. Thither

they now followed, and Orlando, in a very
few minutes, was walking at Viola's side,
while Rob followed close at their heels.
She turned to him at once with thanks for
the flowers, and expressed wonder at seeing
so many violets so late in the year.

Oh, but there are a great many in the
woods still, in shady corners. I could
show you where to find as many again in a
few days. Will you come violet-hunting,
one day ? " ,

*' I should like it, but I am going to
London tomorrow."

Are you, indeed ? " Then, with an
instantaneous resolve to hasten his own
journey, " So am I. Might we not travel
together ? "

'' Are you really going ? " asked Viola,
rather seriously.

*' Yes, indeed ; I must go. I have to be
down in Hampshire," Orlando protested.

They came to the banks of the Sherril,

and found Mr. Haverdike and a young-lady
awaiting them there. The young-lady
was introduced as Miss Carroll, and
was, it appeared, a cousin of Mrs. Haver-dike.
She was a tall, rosy, round-eyed
girl, ready to laugh at the feeblest joke,
and evidently regarded her cousin from
Eton in the light of a professional jester.

Two boats were ready, and the party
dividing in two, took possession, while Rob
pursued a more or less parallel course upon
the bank. Orlando found himself the
companion of Mrs. Haverdike, Duncannon,
and Viola. The boat floated lightly The
fluctuating cloud-shadows came and went
with the breath of a lazily stirring wind.
From their fellow voyagers in the other
boat came continual little outbursts of
laughter and exclamation. For these four

o

the joy of the motion alone was almost
enough. Orlando, drawing his lone, slow
strokes with Viola opposite to him, and the

full-blown beauty of the summer breathing
everywhere about him, was completely
happy, and the happier that the river was
his own familiar Sherril. The Shell, like
every other river worthy of the name, had
a character of its own. It was a placid,
almost a languid stream, and made no haste
upon its journey. It had no utilitarian
desires to take the shortest line, but turned
aside from Its course into bend after bend,
going astray towards whatever flowery
nook It passed. Its banks, here at Sher-borne,
were flat ; on one side ran a towing
path, bordered high with tall wild-flowers
and seeding grasses. All about were little
nests of copse and thicket, running down
sometimes to the water's edge, where the
dwarf-willows, and the gallows, and the
white-leaved elders dipped their feet, sometimes
retreating and leaving wide patches
of reeds and bulrushes that moved slowly
in the wind, and were starred with blue

forget-me-nots, between. The lap of the
oars, the soft ripple of the water, murmuring
as it touched the boat, brought a sense of
serene and dreamy repose. From the
bank came, where the trees were thick, the
twitter of a hundred birds ; and from the
reeds the low cry of the water-fowl, as they
darted in and out, flecks of brown, breasted
with glimmering white. Viola was steering,
an occupation of some care and difficulty
in this many-winding river, and
Orlando, facing her, found occasion, more
than once, to advise and warn. His better
knowledge of the waters made him in some
sort the captain of the small embarkation,
and but for his presence the boat would
more than once have been run around
upon the reedy shallows. By-and-by they
came to a less uneven course, and advanced
in better style. Then it was that, when his
attention might relax a little, the words
came to Orlando's lips which had been

running for two days in his recollection,
and Viola was surprised to hear murmured,
in a low and pleasant monotone 

' I would forgive, and evermore
Would love her as my servitor,
But little as my wife.' "

'' Whom, overborne ? " asked Duncan-non
from behind him ; while Viola looked
up, amazed, and forgot her steering.

'' Oh, only a quotation that was in my
mind."

"Well, how strange !" cried Mrs. Haver-dike,
adding eagerly, " You agree with that
knight, don't you, Mr. Sherborne ? "

'' Why, no, not quite," said Orlando.

And Viola said, " Mr. Sherborne has
heard of our discussion. Was it Mr.
Haverdike who told you ? "

"No one told me of any discussion."

But you knew ? " And, as he laughed,
Where were you ? You must have been
in the trees ? "

'* Yes, where were you ? " chimed in
Mrs. Haverdike.

Orlando answered, between his strokes,
*' I was among the bushes in the copse 
looking for violets, in fact  and so "

*rand so you'll be in the bushes again,"
cried Duncannon. " My dear Viola, do
take care what you are doing."

Viola, much abashed, pulled vigorously
at the yoke-line, and the boat swung out
once more towards the centre of the
channel, while Mrs. Haverdike's face settled
down again from alarm to composure.

I am afraid the discussion must be put
off for the present," said Orlando.

After that there was no sustained conversation,
but only interchange of remarks,
and tranquil enjoyment of the pleasant,
passing hour. Viola desired presently to
take her turn at an oar ; and a change of
position was effected, Orlando going into
Duncannon's place, and Viola taking his.

This arrangement enabled him to observe
the earnestness with which she devoted
herself to her task. Here, again, her
experience was less than her zeal, and
Orlando could continually advise and assist.
The first result of this alteration was to
bring the two boats again Into company,
Miss Carroll and Walter Washington, who
were rowing In the other, being fully a
match for Orlando and Viola, although by
no means for Orlando and Duncannon.

Presently a shout of ' Boat, ahoy ! ' came
from a bend just before them, and Rob
began to bark at the man and horse advancing
slowly along the towing-path. A
barge hove In sight, sweeping leisurely
down the bend. Both boats struck outward
towards the farther bank, and the second
yielded place to the first that there might
be room to pass. As soon as the barge
was well behind, Orlando, stooping forward,
whispered to Viola to change places
and let him take her oar.

We will race them here ; there's a
Q-Qod free course for the next half-mile
or so, and we can get a good start."

Viola agreed. The exchange was effected
quietly enough, and the occupants of the
second boat were amazed to see them
shoot suddenly ahead. Laughter and denunciatory
shouts came after them ; they
heard Walter Washington exhorting his
cousin, " Pull, Annie, pull ! "

But Orlando, as Duncannon observed,
was in the position of Macgregor with
his foot upon his native heath. Spurred
by the feeling of Viola's presence, he pulled
With more eagerness than in any college
strife. The distance between pursued and
pursuers grew and grew, until Orlando,
relaxing his efforts, panted forth breathlessly


I don't think they will catch us now.
Here, Duncannon, come and take an oar.
This heat is awful."

VOL. III. L

'' I tell you what," said Duncannon,
generously, " I'll tow you."

So Duncannon was put ashore, to the
companionship of Rob. A pole and line
were hoisted, and Orlando, yielding to
strong persuasion, accepted the stern-seat,
and there reclining, hot and exhausted, had
a parasol offered him, and found repose
delicious. The water here was deep
almost to the very bank, and Duncannon,
walking on the path, could talk and be
talked to. For a little time there was a
lively conversation, that by-and-by sank
down into silence. Orlando leaned back,
watching the greenness on each side, and
observing the shadows slowly lengthen to
the afternoon.

CHAPTER VIII.

'' ALL IX THE GOLDEN AFTERNOON,"

D'etat cette adorable chose
La fin d'un beau jour a la fin de I't."

Francois Coppcc.

Oh, by-the-by," said Duncannon, breaking
suddenly a long pause of lazy silence, *' you
can tell me, now, what it was that you overheard,
the other day when you were among
the bushes ? No good of yourself, I trust,
eavesdropping in that way."

Orlando's answer floated back slowly.
' I heard neither good nor ill, which is less
flattering than either. Mrs. Haverdike
and Miss Cash were discussing the position
of woman in the days of chivalry, as
represented by the poets."

Were you regretting them ? " asked
Duncannon of the ladies. '' Did you both
sigh to ' rain influence and adjudge the
prize ' ? There's no need ; you do it just
as much as ever."

'viola would not agree with me in
regretting them at all, Mr. Duncannon.
She declared that she would not have
stayed in her castle, but would have gone
out to fight by her husband's side."
*' Like Britomart," added Orlando.
Only Britomart fought against him, if
you remember," said Viola.

*' If I had been the husband I should
have liked that, too," decided Duncannon.
Of course, if one happened to have a
disagreeable wife, one could insist upon
her staying at home. That was one of
the great advantages of the feudal system."
The others laughed ; but Mrs. Haver-dike,
bending over the edge of the boat
towards him, said, quite earnestly, " But,

Mr. Duncannon, look at the general Idea
the central idea. Is there not something
very typical, very universally true,
about it ? I do so like that setting up
of love as the centre of a lifetime  something
to be worked, and striven, and
fought for, and crowning the long efforts
at last."

The little woman's eyes enlarged, and
her face quite glowed with enthusiasm as
she spoke.

'* And then ? " said Orlando, gently.
"' Life did not finish there. What followed?
Surely, disillusion. The man and
the woman knew nothing of each other.
During all those years of effort they had
lived apart, in different circles, learning to
think different thoughts, and look at the
world from different points of view. What
sympathy could there be between a husband
whose whole sphere lay In the
battle-field and the tilt-yard, and a wife

whose Interests were bound up in tapestry
and domestic medicine ? "

Viola s listening face had drawn him on,
from the quiet tone of his first words, to
one of animation, and he raised himself
upon his elbow, and then to full uprightness.
As he ceased, and looked to her
for approval, she answered with a little
nod and smile of agreement.

'eyes," said Mrs. Haverdike, doubtfully;
but still, Mr. Sherborne, look at the long
constancy that was produced. Surely, you
will not deny that that must have been
very elevating to the character ? "

Did not the secret of the constancy
lie in the very little which the knight knew
of the lady ? " suggested Orlando, meekly.

Oh, what a dreadful idea ! Viola,
help me to protest," cried Mrs. Haver-dike.


But Viola only smiled a little, and
listened for Orlando's explanation.

Of course, there Is such a thing as real
constancy  the love that goes on growing
with more and more knowledge. But
faithfulness to a creature of ones own
fancy is a very different thing, and a very
sad thing; for it brings all the pains of
hope deferred, and fulfilment, when it
comes, is a blight. The constancy of
chivalry seems to have been proof against
every trial except marriage."

Duncannon laughed, and Mrs. Haver-dike
drew back, a little hurt.

Orlando went on earnestly, still turning
to Mrs. Haverdike, but still speaking to
Viola, as an actor who is also a lover may
speak to his own far-off love through the
words of Romeo.

Consider the false ideal of marriage.
Griselda seems to have been the pattern
wife of mediaeval admiration. Now, it
seems to me that Griselda was essentially
a bad wife. Her behaviour encouraged

all the lowest and meanest part of her
husband's nature. The affection that can
come back like that, uncomplaining, after
wanton cruelty, is the affection of a dog
or a slave, and the very food of tyranny.
Compare such a love as that with Portia's
appeal to Brutus."

Oh, but Griselda was an isolated
instance ; and her lower rank must betaken
into account," said Mrs. Haverdike.

'' Let us take Geraint and Enid, then.
When Enid was a girl in her fathers
house he was averse to let her lead his
horse into the stable, but when she was
his wife, his courteousness was all gone.
He would let her drive a string of horses
through the tangles of the wood without
help, while he rode behind at ease."

There are plenty of men like him still,"
said Viola.

Oh, but that was in his trouble of
mind," said Duncannon.

He ought not to have been In any
trouble of mind," said Viola.

Exactly," said Orlando, turning quickly
towards her. " He did not understand his
wife ; and instead of speaking openly to
her, frankly and sincerely, as he would have
done to any man who was his friend, he
only sulked. If there had been the love
that involves friendship between them,
there could never have been a doubt ; it
must have died in the first interchange of
words."

I see I am quite in the minority," said
Mrs. Haverdike. " I don't own myself
converted yet, but I am glad to see that
so hlorh an idea can come of the modern

o

spirit."

There was a short silence. As Mrs.
Haverdike ceased, Orlando's eyes, released
from polite attention, went instinctively to
Viola. Her clear gaze, frank and full, was
restlno- on him, and a bright smile of response

made answer to his glance, assuring
him that he had spoken her faith as well
as his own. Our own utterance may sometimes
bring us the first knowledge of our
belief. Orlando had learned, during his
part in this debate, what it was that lay
at the root of his. He sat still, following
out in his thought the deeper currents of
which he thus newly grew aware.

Upon this rather emotional silence broke
Duncannon's words, uttered slowly.

"The feudal times had one great advantage.
I am very grateful to them for
one thing."

His listeners looked up, impatient and
inquiring.

The dress was so artistic, and their
ways and manners provided so many subjects
for pictures."

Viola and Orlando laughed. Mrs.
Haverdike was a little pained by this
ebullition of masculine flippancy.

Not long after this, they reached their
destined place of landing, Riversham, a
village on the water's edoe. Their companions
were not far behind them, and
arrived, complaining loudly of their treacherous
conduct in taking flight when they
chanced to be in front.

It was un-Grandisonian on Sherborne's
part, was' it not ? " said Duncannon, disclaiming,
by implication, any share in the
deed, and Miss Carroll, with many smiles,
assured Orlando that she thought it was
horridly mean.

The boats were left in charge of a man
belonging to the village, and the party
wended its way slowly up a long slope
of wood-clothed hill, towards an inn and
a bit of ruined abbey at the top. For a
time there was but one group, and the talk
was general, but presently the group became
divided and scattered. Orlando and
Viola lingered, and Rob kept with them.

You agreed with me, did you not,
about the age of chivalry ? " said Orlando,
presently.

Oh yes, most fully ; Indeed, 1 said
much the same to Mrs. Haverdike the
other day. And I always did dislike
Griselda. It Is a story against Cecily,
that when she was quite a little girl, and
read the tale for the first time, she asked,
Mamma, was Griselda an idiot, then ? '"

Yet I am sure you must know people
still who uphold her as a model."

Oh yes ; the man who liked women
to be women admired her very much.
And I suppose he admired her husband
too, since, certainly, he was a typical man."

With what scorn you say It ! "

Do I ? I am sorry If I did. One
does wrong to make any barrier between
one and the other. One outfit to be able
to make allowance, and be like mamma,
with ' the wise Indifference of the wise.'

But when I think of some things  of the
habitual injustice with which even just
men think of women, of the inequalities
of the law, of the claim for subjection to
be yielded from one reason-gifted being
another  then I can hardly help being
bitter and feeling glad that I am one of
the wronged, not the wrongers."

She spoke vehemently, more vehemently
than Orlando had ever known her speak,
and he received her earnestness as a sign
of trust. It occurred to his mind that if
her lot had been cast in those feudal times,
she would not only have fought by her
husband's side, but would have fought
remarkably well.

*' If all women were like you, there
would be less injustice done," said he.

Honestly, I believe there would," she
answered, taking his words to refer merely
to her opinions, not to her nature. " The
doubt implanted into so many women.

whether they are not answerable for their
lives to man, as well as to God, lies at the
root of half the mischief." Then, with a
little smile, she added, "It comes to about
this, doesn't it ? we want more such mothers
in the world as mine."

' Whom to know was a liberal education,'
" quoted Orlando, in full agreement.

Viola's face looked as if her thoughts
had gone away to the consideration of
some problem  perhaps the future of some
girl whose mother was unlike her own.
Presently, recalling them with a little
sigh, she seemed to give up the solution,
and to bring her attention again to the
present. They had come to two diverging
paths, and paused.

I wonder which way they went ? " said
she.

Either will do, but this is prettier ; let
us go this way," said Orlando, rather deceitfully,
since he knew this branch to be

longer as well as prettier. They followed
that path accordingly, mounting slowly a
long, gradual slope, the path narrowing as
they went. For a minute or two they had
not spoken.

Viola, looklnof round with Infinite contentment
upon the sunny greenness, said,
presently, " It Is one comfort of getting
older that one's enjoyment of the country
Increases so much."

'' Is the care of orettlnor old beoInnlncr
to weigh upon you already ? " said Orlando.
And he seemed to find the idea diverting.

'ris It not time?" said she, quite prepared
for a mock defence of her chance
words.

Thus they walked on, not saying very
much, happy In each other's society, breathing
the delicious, wood-scented air, untroubled
by the slightest sense of uneasiness
or constraint. From the fluctuating
doubts, the trembling hopes, each involving

a corresponding fear, which make so large
a portion of most lovers' thoughts, they
were altogether free. But to each the
presence of the other made the crowning
sweetness of the world ; a word, a Dance
would have sufficed to bring the avowal
on both sides of complete trust and affection.
But neither felt any desire to require
such an avowal, here and now. The present
was enough. They came in due time
to the resting-place where their companions
were waiting for them.

'ewe thought you had got lost," said
some one.

And, '' What made you come that way ? "
asked some one else.

Oh, we did not know that you had not
come that way too ; it is much prettier,"
said Orlando, with a pleasant smile, and
his superior knowledge of the country was,
of course, unassailable.

The rest of the day passed agreeably

enough, but there was no recurrence for
Orlando and Viola of such tranquil happiness
as that walk through the shady
greenness of the woods had brought them.
On the return journey they were divided,
but they were in too contented and cheerful
a mood to be much troubled by this
separation. Besides, were they not to
have a three-quarters of an hour s journey
together tomorrow morning ? Each could

o o

hear the voice of the other floating across,
mingling among the talk from the other
boat. Now and then came a laugh, waking
on the lips of the hearer a little responsive
smile. As the boats neared their destination,
the flickering talk died into silence.
The tranquillity of beginning evening spread
itself over the river and over the drowsy
lands. The soft twilight thickened, and
the little breezes dropped. They came toland,
and Orlando parted from the rest,
taking leave of Viola with a last word

VOL. III. M

about tomorrow. He did not at once go
in when he reached home, but sauntered
up and down the terrace with Rob beside
him. Presently, he seated himself carelessly
upon the balustrade, looking over on
the grass, the deep-green trees, and well-worn
footway. The familiar scene had
been a background to all the phases of his
growth. His life passed before him. The
old dreams of that autumn day, so long
ago, rose up and gathered form again like
the genii of Eastern legend. Here, it
seemed to him, his life had joined on once
more to the past. His whole relation to
Elizabeth, that long interlude of love and
pain, had been a deviation, not the fulfilment,
as a life with Viola would be, of all
the hopes and intentions of his better
nature. He had loved Elizabeth with the
first heat of boyish passion that could
never come again, and its very memory
set her apart from all other women ; but

J

she never had been, never could have been,
to him what Viola was. Nor had the
former love come near, in fulness and
depth, to this. His thoughts left his own
feelings and went to settle upon her. He
recalled her words, her tones, her bright,
clear gaze. To all these memories it was
the inner meaning which gave peculiar
charm ; the sympathy, the comprehension,
the frank, resolute, thoroughly healthy
mind and soul. Ah, if he might but have
her by him always ! On her love, as yet,
he did not dare to reckon ; but the hope
could not be suppressed that the inner
union which made itself felt to him in
almost every thought could hardly fail of
influencing her too. He did not feel any
very eager desire to hasten a decision.
He would wait until he returned from
Capton. Then he would go to her at
her mother's. A thought of Millie crossed
his memory. He looked up to the evening

sky and laughed. Perhaps Millie
would be satisfied at last.

Rob, at his master s laugh, nestled his
head closer to Orlando's knee. " You
would be satisfied too, would not you, old
boy ? " said Orlando. And obeying an
evident suggestion on Rob's part that they
should go in and supper be provided, he
rose, and going in, glanced round upon the
empty room with a smile that seemed to
say, '' Wait till I bring you home, Viola
 my heart's-ease ! "

CHAPTER IX.

A MEETING.

'\U I should meet thee
After long years,
How should I greet thee ? "

Orlando and Viola travelled up together
the next morning, and their journey was
lightened by conversation of a pleasant
and cheerful kind. As, however, it was
in great part political, and as political
discussions are apt to lose their interest
when the points which they concern have
become matters of history, its record may
advantageously be omitted. Then Orlando
took himself to Portland Place, lunched
with his sister, and went away to see his
uncle, who was going very shortly to Paris,

and whose advice it was desirable to have,
concerning Capton. From the Temple he
sauntered slowly back, enjoying, in a calmly
benevolent spirit, the bustle and stir of the
long streets. When he had arrived for the
second time in Portland Place it wanted
about half an hour to dinner-time, and he
rather reckoned upon finding Millie free
for a little peaceful gossip. Going down,
he found the room empty, and waited,
glancing through a newspaper, until a few
minutes before the hour. Then Millie
came in rather hurriedly, and with a countenance
of concern.

Oh, Orlando," said she, " who do you
think is here ? Elizabeth  Elizabeth Glen-dining."


'' Elizabeth Glendinning," repeated Orlando,
vaguely, feeling as if the world had
suddenly swung backwards in its course.

She has been in England ever since
Monday ; but she says she felt a need to

go and rest in the country for a few days
before she came to any one who knew her.
Mrs. Bannacker tells me she has been
down to Willingshurst, wandering about
alone. I am sure, myself, that she went
down there because of that wretched Captain
Grove. There, I won't talk like that
of him  he's dead. But I know it was in
the plantation there that he proposed to
her."

Orlando had turned very pale. His
wound was old and was healed, but the
scar was painful still.

She looks so changed, so ill. Oh,
Orlando, it makes me ready to cry to see
her ; so I don't know ; as if all her life
had been worn out of her."

'' Poor thing ! " said Orlando, sighing
deeply.

I think she won't come down this
evening. She seems very tired ; but she
likes to have Charlie about her. He really

is a dear, quiet boy. Do you know, he hasa
great many ways that remind me of poor
papa."

Orlando could not think of Charlie, or
even of his father, just then. He could
only think of Elizabeth Glendinning, worn
out by the battle of her life, and lying,
desolate, upstairs. Her image haunted him
through nearly all the night. It was long
before he slept, and when he did, she
figured in his dreams.

The next morning they met at breakfast.
His attentive ear had caught her step, soft
but elastic, on the stairs, and he was
prepared to see her. The door opened
quietly, and the ghost of Elizabeth Glen-divine
came in. She was thin, colourless,
hollow-eyed ; her hands almost transparent,
the fine lines of her face worn into
a settled shape of haggard care, and on her
cheeks a pallor as of white wax, deepening
into blue shadows round the eyes. Yet

the ghost was still beautiful, as the woman
had been beautiful. The outline-t3f the
features, the colour and setting of the eyes,
the poise of the chin and throat, were
things defying change. Hers had never
been the merely skin-deep beauty ' que
donnent deux beaux yeux, des couleurs, et
vingt ans.' Its foundation lay deeper, upon
unalterable lines.

Orlando, as he saw her advance, felt his
heart shaken by something of the old
Influence, and by a recurrence of yesterday's
feeling, that the world had turned
backward Into the past. It was a strange
and disturbing feeling, one which made his
eyes fall, and the colours of sun and open
air forsake his cheeks. He could not lookup,
as he did to Viola, for the meeting
glance of her eyes, nor did her presence,
like Viola's, bring clearness to his world,
but confusion.

Millie greeted Elizabeth with sisterly

warmth, and Gilbert with the old tone
of habitual affection that took back Orlando's
memory to the days when he had
been half jealous of Gilbert. Then it was
Orlando's turn to touch her hand, and say
a word or two of pleasure in meeting her
again. She smiled gently in answer to
them all, and when Orlando spoke, just
lifted her eyes and looked down again.
Yes, it was as Millie had said  her life was
worn out of her ; this was a mere semblance,
a Lorimer wrought of snow, with
breath and motion, and a kind of life sufficient
for the needs of every day, but not
Elizabeth. She spoke a little, of things
unimportant. Her voice was changed too 
worn thinner, but not sharpened ; the sweet,
gracious manner was the same, the peculiar
atmosphere of charm surrounded her still.
Orlando, for his part, could hardly speak at
all. The sound of her voice and the knowledge
of her presence were too disturbing.

His tranquil daily life was shaken by rising
waves of deep pity ; her face went with
him through all the petty business of the
day. He thought of her more often than
of Viola, and the point of time to which
his mind again and again went forward
was the moment in which he should come
again into her presence. This next meeting
took place on the evening of the following
day. He found her sitting, leaning
back in a low, easy chair, while little
Charlie stood by her, with his fair head
against her shoulder, and his dark eyes fixed
admiringly on her face. When Orlando
came and sat down near them, Charlie's
mind seemed troubled by a doubt whether
to remain with Elizabeth or to attach himself
to his uncle, of whom he was very
fond. He carried his earnest gaze from
Elizabeth's face to Orlando's, and after a
moment stretched out to him a small hand,
saying, with gracious condescension, " I
like you, uncle."

I am not jealous, old man ; thank you
all the same," Orlando answered, smiling
slightly as he took the tiny hand.

Charlie Is very much like you," said
Elizabeth. " He has quite a Sherborne
face ; and little Millie, on the other hand,
Is quite ridiculously like Gilbert."

'' Yes, Isn't she ? Millie encourages
herself to hope that she may grow up like
her aunts."

*' To think that Ida and Maudie should
be aunts ! I am sorry to have just missed
seeing Ida'' For Ida had sailed with her
husband for India, about a month before.

There was a little pause, in which the
thoughts of both went back to that summer
noonday, with Ida and Maudie, among the
willows. Then Elizabeth, stroking the soft
hand of the child as it lay In one of hers,
spoke again.

I feel almost like Rip van Winkle ;
the children whom I knew are married,

and a new generation has arisen of whom
I know nothing. How is your cousin
Rosa?"

*' She was very well when we heard last.
O'Brien and she are yachting somewhere
in the neighbourhood of Scotland."

At this point Millie came in.

Oh, Orlando, have you had any dinner?
We dined earlier than usual, because Gilbert
had to go to some meeting,"

Orlando assured her that he had dined,
and in answer to further questions said
that he must go to Capton again in a day
or two, and that he wished the Capton
lands were sold and done with.

"Well, there's one thing," said Millie,
*' you will stay with us for the day or two,
won't you ? And, Orlando, I wanted to
ask you whether there were any lodgings
free, just now, at Sherborne-by-the-Sea ?
The children are beginning to look so pale,
and London is getting so hot and so empty,

and Elizabeth wants a little rest and quiet;
so that, If we could go down there for a
fortnight or three weeks, It would suit us
all. Gilbert could have a boat, and the
children could play on the beach, and
Lizzie and I would be company for each
other."

Orlando could not help feeling, like a
stab, while she spoke, the sharp Irony of
the chance which was to take Elizabeth to
Sherborne-by-the-Sea. Happily the length
of Millie's speech gave him time to recover
his usual tone and manner.

'' I don't know about lodgings, Millie ;
but I can run down on Monday, If you
like. I should not be sorry to have a look
at the breakwater Adamant Is building."

Oh, would you ? I should be glad.
I am sure you will like Sherborne-by-the
Sea, Lizzie. It really Is, now, the pleasantness
seaside place that I knovv. Such
a lovely air, and healthy, too."

That is your doing, is it not ? " sdd
Elizabeth, looking up at Orlando with a
brighter interest in her eyes than he had
seen yet.

Oh, I only gave the first push. It is
doing itself now."

Everybody thought at first that it was
such a bad speculation," Millie explained
to Elizabeth. '' I know even Gilbert
thought that Orlando had been rather
rash. But it seems, after all, that he knew
best, and now everybody makes such a
fuss about him ; I really feel quite proud
of him."

i don't think you used to be so energetic,"
said Elizabeth.

No," said Orlando. '' But a man must
put his interest into something, and work
keeps its interest better than amusement."

Their looks had crossed during those
two phrases. She could not restrain herself
from allusion to the past. Her desire

was SO imperative to know whether the
love that she had put away from her was
waiting for her still. It was the last
remnant of hope left to her. Surely his
words were a confession that his hope
of personal happiness had died when he
lost her. Surely the troubled, grave
glance which had but just touched hers
and then fallen again carried a thought
similar to her own. But she was too weak
and in too much dread of finding herself
mistaken to push inquiry further. She
leaned back, looking once more white asa
ghost, and took but little part in their
further talk.

This was now Saturday evening. Orlando
had thought within himself, when
he planned his week beforehand, that he
might spend his Sunday afternoon in
Gower Street. Silvia and Cecily were
energetic Sunday-school teachers ; but it
was likely that he would find either Mrs.

Cash or Viola, and he had almost resolved,
whichever of these two he saw, to speak.
But now that Elizabeth was here, he felt
this impossible. Although he was not
bound by the slightest tie of duty or love
towards her, yet delicacy to the past
forbade that, upon the morrow, as it were,
of her return, he should engage himself
to another woman. Even if he had never
loved her, it would have been cruel to
parade before her the gossip and discussion
of a new engagement, with all its painful
reminders of her own unhappy life. No,
that could not be ; he must wait a little
honore  at least, until she was ozone to
Sherborne-by-the-Sea.

It must be a familiar observation to all
who have parted and met again that it
is possible to grow into much greater
nearness, as well as into wider division,
during an interval of separation. You
parted from an acquaintance whom you

VOL. III. N

were disposed to like ; a time elapses,
during which there is no communication
between you ; you meet, and find yourselves
friends. This had happened to
Elizabeth and Orlando. When the first
strangeness of meeting was over, they
seemed to fall naturally into the position
of old friends. She spoke to him in a
tone of entreating trust. Her eyes seemed
always to say, " Forgive me. Don't fall
away from me." Yet, to Orlando, their
intercourse was always painful. The
remembrance of what she had been, put
the present continually to comparison, and
oppressed him with an aching pity.
Nothing seemed to him too much to do
for her. It was with remorse that he
recognized the change in his own feeling.
Never in the days of his first love, had
his speech had so much gentle deference,
his actions so reverent a care. But in all
this was no sense of spiritual kindred.

Viola's word of ' fellow-soldiers,' which was
so often in his mind, had here no application.
Elizabeth and he were not fellow-soldiers.
Her step fell never evenly with
his ; he had to make allowance for her  to
choose his words and thoughts, lest he
should hurt her or amaze her. If she had
come home, happy, or prosperously married,
however beautiful and fascinating, her
presence would scarcely have touched him ;
the old emotion would have flickered up
once, and then died down for ever, and the
glamour of romance would have been wiped
from the remembrances of youth. But
now all this was otherwise. Her worn and
altered face appealed to the deepest-lying
fibres of his soul. The tenderness of his
solicitude for her was unbounded, but it
was a tenderness which brought to himself
none of the keen joy belonging to love-service,
and her presence was a constant
renewal of old pain. He said to himself

that he was thankful that she turned to
him, and that his carefully chosen talk
could bring the infrequent smiles sometimes
to her lips, and a light, recalling her
old self, to her eyes ; and he sat with her
often, keeping her from the melancholy
self-communing of thought. They were
drifting, he fancied, by degrees into a
quiet, rather saddened, friendship. How
strange an end for all that passionate hope
of seven years ago !

CHAPTER X.

IN THE PARK CRESCENT GARDENS.

One string, my friend, is dumb beneath your hand

Touch it no more, for you shall not regain
The sweet, lost tone. Take what is left, or let
Life's music sleep to Death. Let us forget
The perfect melody we seek in vain.

Some old, forgotten tones may rise and wake
Our dying youth, and set our hearts aflame
With their old sweetness  to our lips the name
Of Love steal softly, for the old love's sake."

From the Cornwall Magazine of Feb. 1879.

Sunday and Monday were ' over, and it
had been arranged that on the Thursday
of the subsequent week, Elizabeth, MilHe,
and Gilbert, with the attendant train of
children and nurses, were to go to .
On the morning of

Tuesday, Millie took occasion to say to
her brother, '' Oh, by-the-by, Orlando, do
you know whether the Cashes are at
home ? "

*' I believe so. Miss Cash came up the
other morning when I did."

I must go and call upon them before
we go out of town," said Millie. She let
a minute or two pass, and then said, as
though taking up a theme quite unconnected,
*' You will stay till we go away,
won't you, Orlando ? "

'' Certainly, Millie, if you wish. I did
think of going home tomorrow, as I can't
see to those Capton affairs till next week ;
but I can just as well stay."

I think you do Elizabeth good ; she
exerts herself a little more, you see, for
somebody a little out of her own circle,
as it were ; and you are not enough of a
stranger to call forth that shrinking which
she seems to feel for almost everybody.

You have a sort of soothing way, Orlando,
that seems to put her more at her ease
than I can manage to do."

So Orlando stayed, and devoted himself
to the solace of Elizabeth. In the beginning
of the next week he despatched
his business at Capton, and returned thence
to London instead of to Sherborne. He
had not during this time seen any of the
Cashes. He was aware of an uncomfortable
feeling that Viola belonged to a totally
different life, and that there would be an
incongruity in meeting her now. He had
slipped strangely into a new order of existence,
possessing only its own present,
and extending to no natural past or future.
By-and-by he would pass out of this dim
present and take up his own life again.
The days drew slowly by. There was but
one more left now ; this was late on the
afternoon of Wednesday, and tomorrow
afternoon was fixed for the migration to
the sea.

Orlando had spent the greater part of
his day at the British Museum, searching
for some plan or description of Sherborne
church, as originally built. For the wave
of church restoration, sweeping over the
whole country, had now touched and
wakened the drowsy world of Sherborne.
The vicar and Mr. Haverdike entertained
hopes of architectural improvement  that
is, of decided changes  while Orlando, In
the spirit of a man whose ancestors had
seen it building, and been buried In its
shadow, advocated only restoration in the
strictest sense. A new school, bright and
red, would be a pleasure to his soul ; buta
new or renewed church would make
Sherborne, Sherborne no longer. Happily,
he never knew that Mr. Haverdike had
suggested the removal of a Sherborne
monument, because the effigy upon it, of
a ruffed and hooped lady, was quite out
of keeping with the church, as well as

barbarous in Itself. The vicar, however,
was quite certain that Orlando would very
much resent any such affront to his
Elizabethan great-aunt, and begged the
rash innovator never to hint at such a plan
again. Orlando, therefore, remained in
happy ignorance, and gave himself up,
unruffled, to the labours of research.

Returning from his groping through
old county histories, itineraries, and surveys,
he found a letter awaiting him, requesting
him to meet the vicar and a fellow-churchwarden
on Friday morning.

He wrote his answer, and made inquiry
for the other members of the household.
Millie and Gilbert were out. Miss Glen-dining,
it was believed, was in the Park
Crescent Gardens. He resolved to go
and bear her company, but finding the
day's Punch on the table, took it up and
became absorbed in it for the next half-hour.
Then recalling his intention, he

ORLANDO.

Started up remorsefully, and strode off to
the gardens. He had never been within
their railings since the afternoon which he
had spent there with Elizabeth and her
aunt. A little girl opened the gate for
him, and he walked slowly up the paths,
looking for Elizabeth. He found her in
the most northern part of the enclosure,
sitting on one of the seats in a broad
avenue. She had a book beside her, but
was not reading. At the approach of his
step she looked up, and the faintest trembling
of colour disturbed her paleness.

I found no one in the house," said
Orlando. '* Millie and Gilbert are both
out."

Yes. I was tired, and so I did not go
with them."

Have you finished your novel ? Should
you like me to fetch you the next volume?"
asked Orlando, after a moment.

No, thank you. I have not finished it.

The fact is, I don't care very much for
novels now. They seem such pale copies
of reality. Real life is so much stranger
than people's writings about it."

Yes, I suppose it is," said Orlando,
remembering the strangeness of his own,
and of her life.

She glanced quickly towards him, and
let her eyelids fall again. The brief interval
 hardly more than a breathing space
of silence  had a kind of terror.

Shall we walk about a lite ? " said
Elizabeth, breaking the pause, hastily.

They rose, and passed slowly along
the curved, open walks skirting the plots
of grass. Here they fell for a lite time
into mere everyday talk. But presently
the conversation, oscillating like the shaken
needle of a compass, settled at the personal
point once more.

These gardens have hardly altered at
all," said Elizabeth. ** I could almost

imagine, for a moment, that I was a little
girl here again, and that Aunt Ellen was
sitting somewhere in the shade." Then,
and in a deeper tone, she added, '' I wonder
how I should have lived, if I had known
in those days what the next twenty years
would bring ? "

Life comes in such different shapes
from what we look for," said Orlando.

'' Yes, doesn't it ? I suppose one must
learn one's mistakes from experience.
Only, unfortunately, life goes by in the
learning. It is not of much use to me
now that I can see so plainly every mistake
of my own past, and know every one
of them to be my own choice, my own
fault."

'your mistake. Will you blame yourself
for believing others to be as good and
as true as yourself ? "

She shook her head and persisted.

*'Ah, but it was my fault. No, don't

say a word against him. He might have
been happy too, if he had never seen me.
I have been Hke some one out of an old
Greek tale, with a curse upon me.
Where'er I came, I brought calamity.' "

The tone in which she spoke these words
went to Orlando's heart.

No, no, indeed. Not to me. Knowing
you made a man of me."

He said it, impelled by the aching desire
to comfort her, but knowing that what was
true in the letter was false in the spirit.
For to him, also, she had brought calamity
calamity so heavy that the brightest
years of his life had been blasted by it.

"It is good of you to say so," she
answered.

They walked on again a little, and presently
she spoke again.

'' I am really ashamed of pouring forth
useless complaints in this way. You are
all so patient with me that I am encouraged
to be selfish."

I am sure you believe that anything
which you care to speak of, is of interest
to me too."

'' Well, yes  I do. You are very kind,
Mr. Sherborne ; you can't tell how much
comfort you have given me since I came
home. I had begun to lose trust and
faith in everybody. One does, when there
is no one to whom one dares speak frankly."

But you have come back among your
own friends now, and you will never have
to go through that loneliness again."

*' Do you think so ? "

The weary tone, the hopelessness, too
deep to care much about asserting itself,
were to Orlando sadder than any declaration
of sorrow. He uttered no reply, but
the feeling of being looked at made her
lift her eyes. His gaze was full of a
troubled tenderness, anxious, sympathetic,
watching for any desire of hers which he
might fulfil.

'' So many people have to outlive their
lives, you know," she said, with a faint
sigh. " And I am better off than most.
Millie and Gilbert are very good to me.
They will never be tired of taking care of
me. I shall get tired, but they will not.
Don't look as if it were so melancholy. I
am at peace here, and oh, so glad to beat
rest ! And I am free."

"And after a Httle while, and when you
grow stronger, you will be happy too."

Elizabeth made no answer, but as she
walked, a carnation whose stalk had marked
her place slipped from her book and fell
upon the dusty path. Orlando hastened
to pick it up. It was drooping and half
withered ; the deeply cut petals hung
ragged, and the dust clung in its folds.
Orlando shook it, but it remained soiled.

You can't shake the dust off," said
Elizabeth. "It will never bloom again."

She held out her hand for the broken

flower, and bent her face over it. Her
head was turned away, but Orlando could
see her tears falling upon its leaves.

Just here the path was hidden by thick
bushes on each side. Elizabeth lingered,
anxious, perhaps, to let her tears dry before
passing again into the open. Again Orlando
could not speak, because all words
were too clumsy to express the fine shades
of feeling.

Suddenly, with a kind of low, wailing
cry, the words broke from her, satisfying
a need of utterance for herself rather than
in address to him : " It might have been,
once, but it is all gone. It has been alla
failure. I might have been a happy and
a good woman, once." She dropped her
book and her flower upon the little seat
close by, and clasped her hands over her
face.

But it is not too late," said Orlando.
Surely it is not too late."

At these words, Elizabeth stopped suddenly
short and dropped her hands. Her
eyes shone full upon him through her tears,
seeking in his face how much he might
mean by that. Orlando, when she turned
thus to him, lost memory of all else in the
world. His own hopes and plans were
gone like vanishing dreams ; the one thing
clear, in a full light, was the face of the
woman who had first moved his heart with
love, the face which for years had been the
centre of his dreams, turned upon him,
with the question shining, not to be hidden
or mistaken, from its eyes, " Do you love
me still ? "

The wonderful quickness given by strong
emotion to the processes of thought showed
him, in the same breath, his freedom to
respond to the appeal. Viola knew nothing.
There could be no sufferer but
himself; and his mood was such that any
suffering which might lighten Elizabeth's

VOL. III. O

seemed sweet. Dearer than any hope for
himself was the hope of bringing solace to
her.

May not the devotion of my whole
life bring back some happiness to yours ? "
he said, speaking low and quickly, and
finding in the reality of chivalrous respect
a style of words belonging to the age of
its pretence.

But chivalry and respect, the companions
of deep love, are not able to be its substitutes,
nor is their language that of love.
It was not thus that Orlando could have
wooed. Viola, choosing the words that
would be gentlest. His speech would
have been the outburst of his own personal,
urgent desire, too eager to have time for
pause and choice.

But to Elizabeth the words were a promise
of life and hope. The eagerly expectant,
earnest face bent towards her
betrayed to her no want.

Still looking at him, unable to find a
word, she held out her two hands to him
with a kind of low cry.

Her answer came disjointed.

What still ? still ? Ah, then, it's
true."

For a moment or two she wept, her face
hidden against Orlando's arm, her hands
held close in his. He drew her gently to
the seat, set back among the bushes. Very
soon she mastered her emotion, dried her
eyes, and lifted her face.

'' How weak I am !" she said tremulously,
summoning a faintly responding smile.

*' You have gone through so much," Orlando
began, but she stopped him.

Ah, never mind. Let the past be. I
can forgive it now. After all, the future
is long, isn't it ? I am not nine and twenty
yet."

'' And it shall be as happy as it is long,
if I can make it so," Orlando answered.

She closed her eyes a moment, still
smiling, and then, reopening them, said
softly, '' Oh, how strange to dare look forward
! And now I can forgive myself too,
partly, for all the pain I brought to you.

That has haunted me through all these

< >

days and nights. I used to watch for any
mention of you In Millie's letters, to see
whether you were a little happier."

'Dld you?" said Orlando. ''If I had
only known ! "

His heart smote him at every word.
She had been thinking of him through all

these years of pain, and he But it

was in time, and she should never know.
Now, when she was silent, he saw how
pale she was, and into what worn lines her
face sank back. Oh, she should never
know the troubles of doubt and loneliness

adam.

She looked up and found his eyes upon
her, eloquent with the inward vow. Her
old smile came slowly about her mouth.

I have been down to Willingshurst,"
said she.

'' Yes, I know."

'' And to SelHngham.'

We will go there together."

Her smile grew.

He took her hand into his, and slipped
off a loose-grown ring.

'' You must lend me this for a day or

two."

But she retained it.

No, not just yet. I want to get used
to the thought first, before any one knows.
Not even Gilbert or Millie just yet. 1
am half shy of them all yet. Not in
London. Give me a week, Orlando."

The tone was the old tone of habit used
towards Captain Grove. It hurt Orlando
like a stab.

Give you a week ! Elizabeth, my dear
Elizabeth, don't speak to me like that.
My only hope and pleasure is to do anything

you like. Not a week, dear, or anytime
to bind you down, but whenever you
Hke, and how you like."

Her thoughts flew to that former day,
when amidst his sorrow, as now amidst his
success, his first thought had been for her.

*' My lot has not been a hard one, after
all," she said, seeing a new glory lighten
over the old, sad past. " Not many women
can have been loved as I have been.
Orlando, you will have to bear with me.
I have grown hard and desponding. I
am not the Elizabeth you used to know.
My dear, you must not be too hasty. You
don't know me. It would be better to
wait  it would, indeed. I am not lovable,
Orlando, now. I am old before my time
years and years older than you. You
would not love me now, except for that old
remembrance."

*' The old remembrance is a part of my
life," said Orlando, slowly. " I can't tell

now what I might have been or felt without
it ; but this I know, if you can marre
me and be happy in the marriage, you will
give me what I wish for more than for any
other thing in the world. I am not afraid,
Elizabeth, of your becoming unlovable tome."


And as he spoke, every word was true.
He did wish more, far more, for the power
of sheltering and cherishing her than for

any personal joy which could be granted
to him.

*' You'll not deny me, Elizabeth, a second
time ? "

No, no. I can't. Heaven forgive me,
if I am selfish ! "

The Albany Street church clock, which
had warned them, on that previous day, of
parting, struck again now. They looked
at each other, each with a smile, remembering.


*ewe have waited a long time for the

second chapter," said Orlando, " but it has
come at last."

I wish Aunt Ellen could have known,"
said Elizabeth. '' This last year or more,
I have been glad she was saved from
knowing. She would have been glad of
this. I could have told her at once."

Through Orlando's mind shot, before
he could repress it, the incongruous, the
almost irreverent thought, that to tell Lady-ellen
would have required a tone of voice
which would have spared the need of
special communication to other members
of the household.

*' She always liked you," Elizabeth continued,
her mind going back to those
former days whose perspective this new
relation changed so strangely.

She made me once or twice very
happy," answered he. '' And poor Gilbert
  how jealous I was, every now and again,
of him ! "

Elizabeth laughed  the first laugh which
had crossed her lips for many weeks.
Then came a return out of the old days
of the well-remembered tone of gentle
seniority.

'' Don't you think, Mr. Sherborne, that
we shall be late for dinner, if we don't go
in ? " Then, stopping short, and with a
deep and sudden blush, "Ah, tell me 
do I look as if I had been crying ? "

I don't know. You look as if something
had happened to bring me back the
Elizabeth whom I loved first."

An Elizabeth who knows your worth a
great deal better than that Elizabeth ever
did. But come ; indeed we must go in.
What have you done with the key ? "

Slowly, sedately, the two walked across
the stretch of grass, and through the
tunnel, into the second garden, whose gate
was nearly opposite Millie's door. And
]willie, from her window, saw them coming,

and thought how good it was of Orlando
to stay talking to Elizabeth when he
might have been in Gower Street with
Viola.

CHAPTER XL

PARTED.

How could it be ? We strove not to forget ;
Rather in vain to that old time we clung,
Its hopes and wishes round our hearts we hung.
We played old parts, we used old names  in vain ;
We go our way and twain once more are twain."

IK Morris.

Orlando was alone in Portland Place.
Elizabeth was away at Sherborne-by-the-
Sea, and he had no further need to watch
over the motions of his face or the turns of
his speech. He would have been loth to
confess, even to himself, that his chief
sensation was of relief. Yet so it was.
His life of the last few years had been, if
solitary, at least free. The text which
had always gone home to his heart, and

hung with emphasis in his memory : ' We
then that are strong ought to bear the
infirmities of the weak,' had never till now
brought its burden into his own inmost
life. He had taken up the burden, of his
own will, and hardly knew till now, when
it was lightened, how heavy it really was.
Now he was alone. He resolved earnestly,
almost fervently, to use these few days of
peace and freedom in realizing to himself
his full position in regard to Elizabeth.
An unclear hope lay in his mind that he
might be able to revive the old love, now
that it had become a duty. And, indeed,
did he not love her ? No other woman
was like her in his eyes ; no other woman
could make his heart ache by her sigh, or
set his mind searching every recess of
thought for a word to evoke her smile.
He thought of Elizabeth, hour after hour,
during that day, forcing his hopes to live
in her future, and holding back by an effort

every impulse that would have turned
another way. Wilfully he put aside the
natural language of his thought, shutting
his eyes, like Coriolanus at Volsci, to that
which he dared not remember. And by
holdings thus before him the imaQfe of the
woman who, whatever had come since, had
at least stirred in his breast the stormiest
wave of emotion which he had ever known,
by recalling thus the remembrance of every
word and pang of his former passion, he
did contrive almost to believe that this
half of his life was its whole, and was able
to accept his lot with something like
equanimity, glad on Elizabeth's behalf, and
not sorry on his own.

The next day was fixed for his meeting
with the vicar and churchwarden.
Orlando was successful in carrying his
own views without much annoying his
coadjutors  a result which, indeed, he
generally managed to achieve. After

discussion came luncheon, followed by an
amicable parting.

Orlando, turning from Piccadilly northward,
proceeded slowly up Bond Street,
thence along Oxford Street, and so to
Portland Place. In the short passage
of Oxford Street, he found himself suddenly
face to face with Viola. She was
coming out of a shop, and a young lady
was with her. A frank smile sprang into
her face. She gave him a little bow of
greeting, and paused, half a second, as if she
would speak. To Orlando, the world stood
suddenly still. The one vestige of self-command
left to him was a knowledge that
he must not pause. Mechanically he lifted
his hat, mechanically he found the habitual
accompanying smile, and then he hastened
on. The sharp, bewildered emotion, the conflicting
pain and joy, surged tumultuously
for a moment, then pain rose highest.
The violent, personal outcry of a hope

denied made itself heard, and the having
love sprang up in rebellious self-assertion
against the dead. He hardly knew howe
found his way to his sisters house.
There, thank Heaven, he was alone. He
sat down alone in the sunny drawing-room.
But the drawing-room was peopled with '
memories. Viola's laugh, Elizabeth's sad
face, were present to him ; there was the
balcony where he had stood thinking of
Elizabeth's ene, while Viola's voice still
rang in his ears. Surely in that moment
he had foreknown this. And now, what
should he do  how escape from this terrible
conflict which had come so suddenly
upon him ? There were moments in which
he was tempted to tell himself that love so
strong as his made a law for itself  that a
sacrifice like this was out of the bounds of
nature, and not to be required by any
claims of duty. Then again he thought of
himself renouncing Elizabeth, and presenting

himself, with this story on his lips, to
Viola  for between them there could be
no love with half concealment At that
he shuddered. Reflected in the mirror of
Viola's judgment, he saw himself treacherous,
vacillating, culpable. No, not that *
better any pain than that. And Elizabeth
was it possible that he should add to
her sorrows ? Thinking of her, his heart
melted, and he seemed altogether base.
He turned his mind back again to his.
former bitter agony of disappointment In
losing her. Was nothing left now of all
that deep feeling ? All human affection
seemed to him fugitive and despicable ; he
loathed the wavering of his own soul.
And yet that first love had been a
mistake, an illusion, a very dream and
bubble. Viola was the true wife for
him, the accomplishment of his nature  In
the old best word, his helpmate. There
came again the tide of unreasoning, Irrepressible

desire. How was it possible to
abandon this hope ? Would it not be the
abandonment, too, of his own highest
development, and of all his hopes of use
and helpfulness to the world? He could
never, now, fulfil the plans in which she
had sympathized. He thought of his
school, and the thought was a burning
sting. He could never build it, now. Todo
so would be to renew the legend of
that architect whose young wife was built
up alive in the foundations of his work.

Then came upon him the mere, unsatisfied
agony of suffering which has no
shape in words. He dropped his face
with a low moan upon his hands. Fora
time he had no distinct thought ; his
spirit merely groaned and groped in the
dark, under an overmastering weight of
pain. His hands clasped and unclasped
themselves, and the low, repeated cry
broke from his lips, '' Oh, Viola ! Viola ! "

VOL. III. p

And yet, through all, he knew that his
soul would drive him forward on the path
of pain. In that dim knowledge lay the
peculiar, sharpest pang. For when again
he turned the other way, he knew that
the betrayal of Elizabeth was the most
frightful possibility of all. Not that  oh,
not that  at whatever cost of pain ! Thus
from side to side, from pain to pain, he
stumbled, in that conflict of duties and
desires, which is the bitter, royal prerogative
of humanity.

At last some points began to show light
through the storm. Viola was saved, and
Elizabeth would never know. For himself,
there was the consolation of being the
only sufferer. Whatever wrong was done
was to himself. Viola, if indeed she had
ever thought of him with more than mere
friendly liking, would soon think of him
no more. Alas ! to look forward to that
was a new torment. To touch upon that

future evoked a wild resolve that he would
care for nothing else, but win her, and let
all the world go. And then, in its former
sequence, came the thought of her judgment
; and the very depth of love for
Viola strengthened his fealty to Elizabeth.
Little by little, in reaction of ebb and flow,
each returning wave of doubt left its mark
a little higher than the last. The end left
him where he had known beforehand that
it would leave him. He must be true to
Elizabeth ; nothing else was possible. His
life must live in hers  that way lay the
only outlet. And he must not stay herein
London, liable to meet Viola at any
turning, as he had met her to-day, and
to be tossed again into this sea of agonized
trouble. He would go home, and grant
himself the respite of two more solitary
days. Then he would go to Overborne
and, if Elizabeth would, Millie
and Gilbert should be told. He would

feel easier when all way of retreat was
cut off.

He fulfilled his plan. He arrived at
Sherborne, next morning, remembering, ashe
could hardly fail to do, that previous
home-coming, when, as now, his heart had
borne a hidden, life-oppressing care. The
present was the deeper wound, yet it was
outwardly less intolerable. Whatever loss
of joy may come with years, there comes
at least the alleviating knowledge that it is
possible to endure. The boy's despair
is bitterer than the sorrows of the man,
even though the later loss is recognized
plainly as the greater. To-day, also, there
was the feeling to support him that
another's happiness depended on his constancy.
There was a need for combat,
and every combat brings its stimulus. No
task of action is so hard as mere passive
renunciation.

His house was solitary  ah, how much

more solitary than when he went away !
Yet Its solitude aroused vague thankfulness.
He was free, here, still. Recognizing
this thought, he was ashamed. It
was not in his nature to satisfy himself
with only an outward loyalty. He shrank
from this unpremeditated turning of his
mind as from a kind of meanness, feeling-more
guilty towards Elizabeth in the
momentary harbouring of that thought
than in the full self-avowal of his love
for Viola.

As he sat alone, and as he walked
alone and restless, under those trees which
had seen Elizabeth and which had seen
Viola, the panorama of pain and conflict,
so familiar now that it seemed as old as
his life, unrolled itself once more. The
touch of his dog's head against his hand
was enough to brine the overflow of a
whole sea of pent-up emotion. It seemed
to him for a few moments as If life could

not endure against this flood of pain.
Then the stream rolled on, and he was
left on firm footlnof aofaln, but faint and
exhausted, as with a bodily struggle.

He sat down upon the broad balustrade
of the terrace. The afternoon sun was
lighting the deep, late-summer greenness
of lawn and tree. All this was his own 
the lands of his fathers, assured by his
own labour to those who might come
after him. He would have given it all
for leave to die without bringing pain to
others. If the long struggle, the fruitless,
illusive race of life might only be at an
end ! But there was Elizabeth. And she,
no doubt, away at that other Sherborne,
was thinking of him, never guessing. At
that he raised his head, and his whole
thoughts centred in the silent prayer that
he might be true to her. He longed to
take some step which might make his
pledge irrevocable.

How if he went up to the cottage and told
the Duncannons ? The suggestion came
like an answer to his prayers. A faint
shadow of colour came back to his whiteface,
and he rose up at once to put his
thought into execution.

CHAPTER XII.

IN A COPSE AT Overborne.

There might at least be truth between us two,
If nothing else."

Aurora Leigh.

Was it not well to speak, to have spoken once ? "

Tennyson.

Orlando walked up to the cottage, and ashe
walked felt easier, upheld by his resolve.
The servant who opened the door to him
smiled as she saw him, having by this time
no doubt at all of his being Viola's lover.
She opened the door of the little drawing-room.
Orlando heard at once the sound
of many voices, and knew that Mr. and
Mrs. Haverdike were here. He walked
in and saw Viola. The room seemed full,
but her presence was the one certainty.

The first moment of his entrance seemed
an interval of endless length. Then everyone
was exclaiming in surprise. Walter
Ashington was here too, he perceived.

In the next breath the exclamations
took another form.

What have you been doing to yourself
? " asked Duncannon. " You look
most awfully ill."

Walter Ashington was heard to observe
that he never saw any one look worse,
unless it was a man he knew who had just
taken a double first.

Julia asked in a voice of concern whether
he had not indeed been ill ; and Viola said
nothing, but looked at him hard, and then
dropped her eyes to Rob, and lost all the
brightness which had lightened her face ashe
came in. Orlando himself could hardly
speak. To Viola, indeed, he said no word.
Their hands met, but he could not look
into her face.

She was troubled, puzzled. A flight of
vague and wild conjectures passed across
her brain, dim shadowing of some misapprehension,
something said by some one
else, some disturbing doubt darkening his
mind.

Animated talk had been going on before
his coming in, and was very soon renewed.
Viola had been taking part in it, and she
could not at once drop out. Orlando sat
silent, hearing the voices about him as
Christian might have heard them in the
valley of the shadow of death. Through
his own heart ran the cry, " My fate is
harder than I can bear."

But the sharpest pang was yet to come.
Viola spoke to him, appealing to his support
in some opinion of hers. Her voice
thrilled every nerve. To have looked at
her, to have answered with any tone of
heartiness, would have brought a whole
outburst. He answered, without looking

up, and almost without knowing what
words he used. " No doubt that you are
right."

Viola had never heard that tone from
him before. Was it pain ? she asked herself.
No one else seemed to be surprised
or chilled ; hers was the only voice smitten
silent.

And then he turned to Mr. Haverdike,
speaking violently and feverishly, and
declaring extreme and contradictory views.
Mr. Haverdike again appealed to herself,
and she was obliged to say a few words.

Orlando, while she was yet speaking,
moved away to a side-table and took up a
book. In truth, his agitation had reached
a point at which his utmost self-command
could only hold him from crying out to
her by name. He stood a moment by the
table, then sat down, bending over the
book. It was a book of engravings newly
bought, one in which it was possible to be

interested, and the other talkers saw nothing
amazing in his defection. They
were laughing now at some absurd tale
of Duncannon's, to be capped in the next
minute by another from Walter Ashington.

Viola, meanwhile, had drawn near to
Orlando. His evident illness, his strange
manner, distressed her ; she could not help
approaching him, waiting for some sign or
glance that might make it possible to
speak. The sign came in an unlooked-for
form. He drew a little away from her and
bent a little closer over his book. The
motion was very slight, but it was decisive.
Her speech broke from her.

Mr. Sherborne, have I done anything
to offend you ? "

To that, though still with averted eyes,
came an answer in his usual voice  an
answer which she vaguely felt, held more
than she understood.

'' No, indeed ; how could you ?"

That was exactly what I was wondering."
She paused, long enough to let him
speak if he would ; then, a little coldly,
added, '' I am glad it is not so." Her
eyes, however, were gentler than her voice,
and in them lingered the appeal which she
would not again put into words.

Orlando had kept his eyes resolutely
upon his book, trying to harden himself
against the emotion aroused by her voice.
Now he looked suddenly up. He met her
gaze, in which resentment was struggling
against that pathetic, mute inquiry, whether
the fault lay in herself or in him. Alas !
the truth* was clear enough. His precautions
came too late. His silence, his avoidance,
could only pain, not save her  could
only add to an inevitable separation the
prolonging pain of uncertainty.

Viola," said he, in a quick undertone,
will you let me speak to you ? "

At the sound of her name upon his lips

her self-possession shrank away. She
made a silent motion of the head, and
moved away towards the open window.
He followed her.

Not now  not here," she said, scarcely
above her breath.

She stooped down confusedly and
stroked Rob's head.

Orlando did the same, and his voice
murmured at her ear, " Will you come outwith
me into the copse ? "

The tone of entreaty, all the more urgent
for being so subdued, was not to be resisted.


She answered simply, '' Yes," and raised
her head again. After an instant she said,
speaking as low as he had done, ''If you
go and wait for me in the copse, I will
meet you in a few minutes."

Their words had passed quickly  the
others were engaged in their own talk.
No one had heard or heeded.

Orlando drew near once more to the
talkers.

*' I think I must be going," said he.
His natural manner had come back to him,
and only his excessive paleness gave any
unreality to his smile. " I thought I would
just come up for a few minutes. I think I
may very likely go away again on Monday,
to Sherborne-by-the-Sea. My sister and
the children are there."

I hope the sea-air will send you back
looking better," said Julia, as she shook
hands with him. '' I am sure London has
not suited you well."

London is very trying at this season
of the year," said Mrs. Haverdike. As
she spoke, an odd little, absent look came
into her face, for it had occurred to her
that Mr. Sherborne looked to-day like a
Burne Jones.

To Viola Orlando said no 'good-bye,'
feeling that It would be a hypocrisy ; but

they touched each other's hands, and
the absence of words passed unnoted.

He went out Into the fresh open air, and
turned his steps to the little copse at the
back of the house, whither they had gone
to Hasten for the nightingale. And there,
as he stood waiting, leaning against a tree,
the strongest temptation of his life came
to him. In the first moment of certainty
that Viola loved him, he had felt,
through all the new complication of pain,
a light of relief and joy. Come what
might, they were at one  they loved each
other ; he could tell her everything. This
had been the spirit In which he begged her
to give him hearing ; but now, as he waited,
came another and a lower Impulse. It
would be so easy to meet her with the
confession only of his own love, and to
conceal from her all the wild, mistaken
story of the last three wretched days. He
had come, all unawares, to the supreme

decision of his life. His aspiration, from
boyhood up, had been towards something
nobler than mere self-gratification, but
never until now had the principle of his
life been brought face to face with an
opposing passion. He did not reflect thus
upon his own position. It is not in the
stress of conflict that we have time to
inquire into our own motives ; there is
time only for action, and our action seems
to be governed by some not-to-be-resisted
current, which is indeed the weight of
habit. In Orlando this power of habit
was for a moment in abeyance, driven
out by the wilder force of passion. When
he foreshadowed his life, lying among the
trees at Willingshurst, he had not dreamed
of such a struggle as this. For a brief
space the fierce rush of personal longing
carried all before it. He no longer reasoned,
no longer thought. Nothing existed
for him but the blind impulse urging

VOL. III. Q

him to snatch his heart's desire. But the
eagerness of passion overshot itself, and
brought recoil. Among the longings for
attainment rose a thought of its impunity.
He drew back with a sudden shock. Had
it, indeed, been In his thought to hurt
Elizabeth because he could do it easily ?
Why, anything was possible but that. If
she had been powerful to pursue him, to
bring him in any way to shame and
punishment, then, perhaps, he might have
done it, but not now. He put his hand
for an instant across his eyes, and the cry
went up from his heart, " Not that, O God
-  not that ! Save me from falling into
that."

Again the world put itself back into Its
old place. He began to see distinctly,
like a man recovering from a blow. No,
there was no way but the one. Viola and
he must endure. The thought of Viola's
pain brought no such crushing compunction.

He felt no desire to shield her by
any concealment of the truth. His sense
of union lay too deep for that  so deep,
that the half-truth which was loyalty to
Elizabeth would have been treason to
Viola. In that one fact lay the deepest
evidence of fitness between them.

Then he saw her common towards him
through the trees, and went forward to
meet her. She, too, was a little paler
than usual, but walked with her customary
firm, quick tread. She could form no idea
of what he would have to say to her.
That he loved her she could hardly doubt,
but she understood that no mere declaration
of love was coming:.

They met, and stood still under the
trees.

Thank 3'ou for coming," said Orlando.

Then followed an Instant of agitated
silence on both sides.

I have no right," he began, " to ask

ORLANDO.

you to hear anything about myself. I
suppose most people would tell me I ought
just to hold my tongue, and keep out of
the way ; but I can't  to you."

Viola's colour deepened a little, but her
clear eyes were steady. She answered
quickly, yet with a kind of solemnity In
her voice, " Nothing would hurt me more
than that you should."

The words, with their tacit recognition
of a mutual love, stirred In Orlando's heart
that double thrill of delight and pain which
goes to the making of any deep emotion.
With the quickened pulses came a warmer,
but tumultuous haste of resolve, differing
ah, how Immeasurably!  from the tender;
carefully chosen words In which It had been
possible to speak to Elizabeth.

*' I must speak to you openly, this once.
I know It never must be aofaln. I cannot
go away and leave you to think, perhaps,
that, through all these months, I had been

assuming a feelings which had no existence
-  playing with you, amusing myself. It is
not so, Viola. May I call you Viola, this
once ? Believe me, it is not so."

'' I never thought it was so," she
answered, in a low, shaken voice.

He went on, his utterance falling into
deeper, hurried notes. '' These months,
since I have known you, have been a new
life to me. I have never loved any
human being as I have loved you. I
never can, or shall, again. I did not think
there could be such a love, ' such sober
certainty of waking bliss.' If you had
been a man, I should have desired to have
you for my best and dearest friend. There
is not a vvord or a thought of yours but goes
home to my soul, and makes me the better
for it. And yet I cannot say to you, ' Give
me your love, Viola.' Four clays ago, I
might have done it freely. Ah ! I wish
I had. No, no  don't let me wish that.

I am glad I did not know. Help me,,
Viola  help me. I must tell you. I must
make your knowledge a barrier. I know
you will strengthen the best side of me."

I Will try," she answered ; and the
words had in them a strange mingling
of a cry of weakness and a promise of
strength.

Yet Orlando could not command himself
sufficiently to tell his story. His eyes
clung to Viola's face, appealing vainly to
fate for some reprieve.

'' Let me tell you, then," he said at last.
*' No one knows but you. It makes the
whole story of my life, really."

Again he paused, setting his teeth
together and clenching his hands. His
heart ached to cry out the sorrows of the
present. He had to battle with himself
for force of self-repression, and the narration,
when it cameo, flowed with an unnatural
calm.

"Years ago, In the autumn before I
first knew your mother, I met Miss Glen-dining
"

A little, a very little, spasm of change
passed over Viola s face. She knew now
what was coming.

*' It was at Willingshurst," Orlando
continued, 'ein a little wood there, not
unlike this, but it was later in the year. I
had been reading some of the Odyssey, and
by-and-by I began to think about my own
life instead, and to lay plans for the future.
I was so hopeful, so full of expectation 
life seemed so easy and so clear ; the world
has never been quite the same as it was
then. And present, among the singing
of the birds, I fell asleep. And when I
awoke, she was coming along the path,
coming as you came, just now. She did
not see me. She was looking before her
with a kind of grave, sweet, wondering
look. Nothing that I could say would

give you an idea of how beautiful she was ;
she was like a creature out of a dream.
Oh, to think what she is now ! "

He paused, and the dog, seeing Violas
attention disengaged, laid his head against
her hand. For the first time she failed to
answer the caress. Her earnest eyes were
fixed upon Orlando. Her face bade him
go on.

'' My mind was full of her from that
moment. I was just one and twenty, and
I had never even fancied that I was in
love before. It was like a torrent that
carried me away. When I look back on
it now, it seems a mystery. After that, I
met her down there, three times. I can
remember every word she said to me still.
Then I went back to college. It was all
for her sake that I worked. In every
thought I had, she was the centre. Then,
in the spring, I went to London, on purpose
to see her. I saw her then, often.

Oh ! " murmured Viola, breathing into
the word a whole world of sorrowful
sympathy. Self-consideration had slipped
from her. Her whole mind was living in
his story.

Orlando, too, was back in the past.

I can't tell you how I felt. It seemed
impossible to live. It was the day after
that that I saw you first  you know, I
told you."

The flow of his words broke off, and the
gaze fixed upon Viola changed. A deep
pain of the present rose into his eyes. He
sighed, thinking of the bright young face
which had glanced up at him then, and of

the sad earnestness resting upon It for his
sake now.

*' Yes," said Viola, gently, but with a
colour slightly raised, and In a tone which
besought him not to linger upon that.

Hurriedly, he continued his tale.

I went away to Sherborne-by-the-Sea.
Oh, I can't speak of that day. It Is frightful
to think what one can suffer and no one
can do any good. But In the evening
there, everything put Itself straight to me,
and I knew that I must come home and
live my life out as well as I could, and not
let any one else be the worse for my pain."

The emotions changing upon Viola's
face, like shifting reflections In a mirror,
deepened Into a full sympathy that was
admiration and approval as well.

Orlando, forcing himself to controlled
speech, went on.

Then there was Millie's wedding. Of
course we met then. After that she went

away. You know about Captain Grove ;
you have heard them speak of him. I
kept on at Sherborne, doing what I could.
There was my father to work for. But
all those years I never left oft thinking-about
her. And yet I know, now, that I
hardly really knew her at all. Of her
thoughts, her opinions, her tastes, I
hardly knew anything. But one can
love upon so little knowledge. I never
thought that any other love could come
into my life. But then I met yoiL His
voice chant-ed again from mere narration
into the tone of direct speech. " I have
no right, Viola, I know I have no right,
to speak of that." He stopped himself,
moved a step away, turned back, and once
more pursued the tale, in a quicker, lower
key. '' Then she came home. You know
her story. She is so changed, so worn.
I found she had thought of me as true to
her all those years. She took something

I said as confirmation of it. Heaven
knows I didn't mean it so as I said it,
and yet there is nothing I would not have
been glad to do for her, for very pity and
sorrow. I could not look her in the face
and say, 'It is a mistake ; I meant
nothing; I love another woman.' And I
did not even wish to say it. I did not feel
as if it mattered about me, if only I could
make some amends to her for all that she
had gone through. I told her that, if she
could be happy in marrying me, she would
make me happier than I had ever hoped to
be. And it was true, Viola. I could not
have known any happiness if she were to
be sacrificed to it. If I had only known
that you cared ! But I thought you did
riOt know. I had never spoken to you. I
never dreamed but that you had escaped.
And for myself, I thought that I could
bear it. I did not know how much I
cared. But then I met you, you remember,

in Oxford Street. I knew then. I felt
that I must go away  keep away. I coukl
not face her till I had had the strut-orle
out, alone. I came here, thinking you were

in London. And then Oh, my dear,

that I should have brought this upon you ! "

'don't," said Viola, quickly. 'you
must not think that. I would rather have
this  from you  than any other happiness."


He looked up and stretched out his
hands to her, saying, with a kind of
despair, " I can't sacrifice her, Viola. It
is the only hope left for her. We must
bear it as we can."

She put her hands into his and pressed
them close. "Yes, yes. It is better so.
I am glad you told me."

They stood for a little space in silence,
holding each other by the hands, their eyes
fixed upon each other, full of deep, hopeless
regrets.

We must keep apart," said Viola.
There has been no doubt, no misunderstanding
; we need not be afraid to think
of one another. Happiness is not all 
happiness, I mean, for oneself. You must
never think I am sorry. I never shall be."

She spoke with pauses, slowly, forcing
back the bitterer thoughts that came
between. If it had not been for the need
of helping Orlando, she could have flung
her arms round the dog or round one of
these trees, and wept bitterly for her own
griefs, and because she must go away and
see them no more.

You forgive me, then ? " said Orlando.

There's nothing to be forgiven," she
answered. 'rit is our misfortune. It
came so. I would not have it changed."
Then, after a moment, " You will try to
be as happy as you can, won't you ?
There is so much for you to do, here in
Sherborne. And some day you will be

in parliament. One can't be so very-unhappy,
if only one has one's work."

'' And you ? " said Orlando. '' You
think only about me. It is the pain I
have brought on you that hurts me most."

"Yes  I know. But I shall bear it.
You must not be afraid because of me.
There's work for me, too. You know,"
with a little half-smile that tried to be
bright as well as courageous, " I never was
brought up to think marriage the only aim
of a woman's life."

Orlando could not answer; to him the
pain was too familiar for that first enthusiasm
of brave acceptance.

'' You won't let me feel that I have
spoiled your life, will you ? " said she, with
tender earnestness.

Quick came Orlando's response. " No,
never. I'll do what I can, Viola. I will
bear it all. Only not now. Don't ask me
not to be sorry', now. Oh, to stand here,

and to touch you, and see you look at me
like that, and to know that it is all no use ! "

It's hard  oh, it's hard ! " said Viola,
breaking out for the first time into a kind
of cry. " Through all those years all the
years ! "

Her voice wavered ; she stopped short,
and a few tears ran down her face.

There was a pause of silence, full of
more despair than any words. Then
Viola, freeing her one hand, wiped her
eyes and said, tremulously still, '' I must
go. It is no use." Her voice changed
and steadied as she went on. " 1 begin
to understand now," she said, slowly,
*' how there should be no marrying, nor
giving in marriage, in heaven. I suppose
life comes to be like that to most people 
living in tents  going on to something
better. We shall come out, by-and-by."

*' Ah, but stay a minute, Viola, now  the
last time."

She turned towards him again, and looking
up with all her soul in her eyes, gave
him her right hand and said, steadfastly,
Good-bye."

Orlando yielded to the appeal, took her
hand, and answered slowly, " Good-bye,
then  for ever  in this life."

For a moment yet they stood hand to
hand, and looking into each other's faces.
Then, slowly, he let loose her hand, and
turning from her, went.

Rob, lying lazily, and blinking on the
path, started up to follow. Viola, when
she saw the dog too moving to depart,
felt the whole rush of her grief breaking
on her in a flood. Faintly, in a trembling
voice, too low to reach Orlando, she called
the dog by his name.

He paused and turned, and then came
back. The curving path divided Orlando
from her. It was over  all over. She was
alone for ever  through all the years.

VOL. III. R

She broke forth into a low-voiced
moaning. Softly the dog's head touched
her hand, and his gaze of bewildered,
dumb sympathy sought her face. Dropping
on her knees, she threw her arms round
him, pressed his rough head to her soft
cheeks, and wept fiercely.

CHAPTER XIII.

TOO LATE.

To toil, to think, to long, to grieve,
Is such my future fate ?
The morn was dreary, must the eve
Be also desolate ? "

Charlotte Bronze.

Elizabeth was sitting with Millie by an
open window, overlooking the parade of
Sherborne-by-the-Sea. Below on the
beach were the children with their nurse ;
farther out upon the bay, dimly visible
In the sunshine, was Gilbert's boat.

It was ten o'clock, the hour at which
letters mloht beofin to be looked for.
" I hope there won't be a letter from
Orlando to say he can't come to day,"
said Millie, placidly, as she moved her

head from side to side, contemplating her
work.

'' I hope not," said Elizabeth, quietly.
The long habit of self-repression made it
easy to speak with no tone of emotion.

One can never be quite sure of him,"
pursued Millie; "he is busy in so many
ways."

Elizabeth was so certain of his coming
that she could not say anything which
might seem to express a doubt. She sat,
leaning back in silence, remembering his
words in the sweet, near past, and looking
on with assured hope to that future, which
was no longer a dream too perfect for
fulfilment, but a possession to be proclaimed
to-day or tomorrow. How would
Millie and Gilbert receive the news ?
Gilbert, perhaps, would be found to have
had his suspicions long ago. Millie had
certainly been in the dark long ago, but
lately she had once or twice seemed almost
to hint at such a thing.

All things come round to him who only
waits,' and at last, after all these years,
happiness was coming to her. Life was
once more to be no pain. And In the
meanwhile was an interim of balmy repose.
The warm, summer air breathed through
the wide-open window, lifting the light
curtain and gently stirring the hair upon
her forehead. Without, lay long, level-stretching
lines of land and sea, softened by
hazy air-tints to harmonies of grey. The
subdued tones were a refreshment to her
soul after the vivid colouring, the crisp
air, and sharp outlines of her mountain-land
of exile. Here was hope and peace, and
an after-summer, sweeter than the half-visionary
dreams of youth. As she sat.
her lips parted slowly to a smile, and a
faint colour, soft as the outer pink of
a pale rose, crept upward on her cheek.
Millie looking up. as she listened to the
approaching knocking of the postman,

thought that the sea-air was working
wonders.

And now the postman was at the door,
and the letters were brought in. Among
them was a Httle packet bearing the Sher-borne
post-mark, and redirected from
London by Orlando.

What's this ? " said Millie. " It looks
like photographs. Suppose you open it,
Lizzie. Oh, here's a letter belonging toit
; I think it must be from Mrs. Dun-cannon."


Elizabeth opened the packet, at that,
with some Interest. It did contain some
eight or nine cabinet-sized photographs,
from pictures. Among them was one
representing the single figure of a young
woman in an antique dress. Elizabeth,
looking at it among the others, supposed
it to be taken, like them, from a painting.
Millie, meanwhile, was reading her letter.

'eyes, they are from Mr. Duncannon's

pictures. Mrs. Haverdike sends them.
She says she thought Orlando would be
interested in seeing them. I dare say
he will. Oh, and there's one of Viola,
she says, in the dress she was painted in ;
but I must send that back, for there's
only that one copy, which Mrs. Haverdike
begged to have done. I shall like to see
that."

'' This is it, I suppose."

Oh yes ; that's very good. Let me
see, I don't think you have ever seen
Viola Cash, have you ? But I dare say
you have heard Orlando speak of her.
She is Mrs. Duncannon's sister, you
know."

** I think perhaps I did see her, years
ago, in the Academy one day. There
were some ladies with Mr. Duncannon,
and I noticed them, without knowing who
they were, because they looked so nice."

She bent to look at the photograph once

more. It was the portrait of Viola In the
dress of Elaine ; but It did not represent
her standing In the attitude of her picture.
Here her full face was shown, and the
tea-tay had been replaced by something
which, in the photograph, at least, looked
like a veritable shield. Some remembrance,
perhaps, of the ill-fated maiden of Astolat
had brought an unwonted pathos to the
clear and self-possessed face. The candid
eyes seemed to hold recognition of some
sad necessity, the just-closed mouth drooped
a little at the corners ; the whole expression
was an expression of farewell.

'* It is a pretty face," said Elizabeth.

'think so," said Millie, with emphasis.
Orlando will be interested in this one,
at least."

Elizabeth, always shrinking from some
possible new-coming pain, looked up,
pressing her lips together.

Millie was still smiling upon Viola's
photograph.

'' Your brother admires Miss Cash, then,
too ? " said Elizabeth at last.

Millie, looking up with a laugh in her
eyes, answered, " I am not bound to keep
his secrets when he does not confide them
to me, am I ? "

For a moment a quick rush of relief
brought back warmth to Elizabeth's heart.
Millie knew  she guessed. She was
teasing her. How foolish to be alarmed !
She, too, could smile again, and lookup,
with half-appealing, timid eyes, into
Millie's.

"And, any way, I might tell yoic,''
Millie went on. " I know you would not
let it go any further. He has not said
a word to me, you know ; but I can see it
well enough. I can hear it in the very
tone of his voice when he speaks her name.
Oh, I am very glad about it, and so is
Gilbert. It has been my greatest wish for
years that Orlando should marry. And

she is such a nice girl, Lizzie. I am sure
you will Hke her."

Elizabeth sat quite still. She gave no
sign of pain by word or motion, but she
felt herself turn sick at heart, and for a
moment sound and sight grew vague to
her. She had been tempted to think
the power of suffering dead within her ;
but here, at an unexpected opening, the
familiar face looked In.

Millie was still speaking. *' She Is a
good deal younger than he Is  six or
seven years, I should think ; but I think
that Is all the better. There Is six years'
difference between Gilbert and me. Oh,
she will suit him admirably. Such a clever
girl  so bright and fresh ! Only, I wish
he would make haste and settle It. I have
been expecting to hear something about
It for weeks now."

Perhaps you are mistaken," said Elizabeth.
" You know one does make those
mistakes  sometimes."

It was an agony to her to speak ; but
it was so essential that she should know
the truth. Perhaps the terror might be
but a phantom, after all. .

"Ah, but I am not mistaken," said
Millie, with a little nod. "You would
know, if you had seen them together.
Gilbert thinks so too ; and you know,
Lizzie, that Gilbert is not a person to
judge hastily. He used to have an idea
that Orlando had had some love-fancy,
long ago, that we never knew of. But I
was sure that could not be. My own
notion is, that it was for poor papa's sake
he kept single. You remember, don't you,
how they were all in all to each other . "

Yes," Elizabeth answered, faintly.
Then, gathering up her courage to thq,
effort, " Do you fancy he has had  this in
his mind  long ? "

No, not very long, you know. I don't
think he knew her very much until she

went to stay with the Duncannons at
Easter. Well, and this is August, isn't it ?
Oh, that is quite long enough, for I think
they saw each other almost every day in
Sherborne. But, of course, you won't say
anything about it, will you, Lizzie ? I
always think it is no good to talk about
things of that kind ; but I thought I would
just give you a hint, because, you know,
you are really one of ourselves."

Elizabeth endured in silence, but when
Millie proposed that they also should
now go down to the sea, she managed
to say that she felt rather faint, and would
go and lie down for a little time. She
ought not, perhaps, to have sat in the full
sunshine, she added, afraid, when she had
spoken, lest Millie should read in her
words the confession that seemed so evident
to herself.

Millie was full of concern. "Yes, you
do look quite pale again. I am so sorry.

I thought you were looking so much
better. You had better go up and rest,
so that you may be quite fresh when
Gilbert and Orlando come in. Let me go
up with you."

"No, no," said Elizabeth, almost pettishly.
'' No, indeed ; I don't want anyone.
I shall be better again presently.
Go out to your babes, Millie. I would
rather you did."

Millie yielded ; and, rising, set the photograph
of Viola conspicuously on the
centre of the mantelshelf. " You will
come out, if you feel inclined, won't you ? "
said she.

Oh yes," Elizabeth answered ; and
then, at last, was allowed to go away and
be alone.

Her pain was not articulate as yet ; she
only felt, as yet, that she had slipped back
into the gulf

Now, lying on her bed, with a blind

drawn down between herself and the keen
sunlight, she began to search and to consider.
That there was some truth in
Millie's opinion she did not doubt. But
how much was truth, and which part ?
Had he indeed begun to love Viola, and
then, at her coming, fallen under the old
sway again ? If that were so  and oh
that it might be so !  nothing should
divide them. She would cling to him,
whatever miofht be said or thought  if
only he loved her. Love was all. No
such claim or duty as Orlando could owe
to Viola could be strong enough to come
between them. A glow came to her heart
at the thought of bidding the world defiance
on the ground of their mutual love.
Then came the opposing fear. How if the
contrary of all this was true ? How if
his love indeed was Viola's, and he was
making, even now, for her sake that
sacrifice of love whose obligation she had

just abjured ? From that thought she
shrank most, perhaps because her belief
inclined to it the most. Then, falling
to a lower key, she asked herself whether
Orlando might not be playing with two
loves at once  entangled in a double web ;
not wholly true to either allegiance, nor
wholly false ? Men were so. Edward
would have been so. But Orlando? Was
there no such things as true love fulfilled
on earth ? Must it be always thus  a
battle, a struorle of the weaker to maintain
ground against the stronger ? For her, at
least, it seemed there must be no peace ;
for to-day he would be here, and what
must she do ? She must find the truth,
somehow. She must not fall into any
second illusion, worse than the first. If
Orlando should be like Captain Grove !
She broke down into an outburst of agony.
She shed no tear, but moved her face to
and fro upon the pillows, moaning under
her breath.

Two hours or so later, she came down
Into the room which she had left. The
Venetian blinds flapped slowly on the
window-sells, and the room was full of a
dark-green twilight. Elizabeth went to
the portrait leaning against a vase over the
fireplace. She looked at It long and
earnestly, her eyes growing accustomed to
the half-light. That was the face, then.
Yes, It was the face of a woman whom
Orlando might love ; true, earnest, and
simple.

'' But she will never love him as I do 
never."

Her eyes rose to her own face, reflected
In the glass above. Turning away, she
sat down In a great easy chair by the
window. The unconscious, habitual grace
of every motion and attitude made her no
unfitting subject for a picture as she sat.
The dim light veiled the lines worn by
pain and sorrow In her face, but left Its

Spiritualized refinement of outline to be
plainly seen. Slowly, her mind was turn-nor
towards a resolve. If it should be as
she began, against her will, to believe,
Orlando's life should not be blasted, a
second time, by her. Oh, how true had
been her own words of herself, ' Where'er
I came, I brought calamity ! ' But not to
him. She would not  indeed, she could
not, now that she knew it  bring calamity
to him. But, as yet, she did not know it 
not quite surely. For this one day she
might still live as if her hope were true.
Then, rising, she fetched her hat and
parasol, and went out to Millie on the
beach. Millie and the children were wearing
white dresses with knots of black ribbon
upon them, and white, muslin-trimmed hats.
Elizabeth, as she moved towards them,
felt herself the only blot upon the fresh,
light-coloured landscape. For a while she
sat, hearing the babble of the children ;

VOL. III. s

then it was time for their early dinner, and
MilHe and she went In with them.

They did not go out again, and when
Orlando arrived, late in the afternoon, he
found Millie and Elizabeth together, in
that front room which was no longer sunny.
Elizabeth's first glance showed her that
he was looking ill, worn, worried, and
anxious. In answer to Millie he said
that he was tired. No, he had not eaten,
but he was not hungry  It was too hot to
eat. But Elizabeth saw more in his face
than mere fatigue. As he turned from his
sister, his eyes fell upon the photograph ;
he crossed the room at once and took It
up. Millie looked at Elizabeth and smiled.
Elizabeth, watching Orlando with eager
terror, saw his face, reflected in the glass,
change and turn pale. A look came over
it of unutterable, poignant tenderness  such
a look as he had never turned upon herself.
It recalled Millie s words, " I can

hear it In the very tone of his voice when
he speaks her name." She had no doubt,
any longer.

Is it not good ?" asked Millie.

Yes, very good," he answered, laying
it down and coming to seat himself by
Elizabeth.

The look of love had gone, but the paleness
remained, and presently she saw a
cloud of pain and care coming back.

*' Have you seen anything of the Cashes
since we came away ?" asked Millie.

*' I was down at Sherborne on Saturday.
I saw the Duncannons and Miss Cash
then."

Oh, she Is with them still, then ? "

Yes. Are these Duncannon's paintings
? Have you seen these ? "

This to Elizabeth, and in the peculiar
tone of care and deference which he used
always towards her.

'' Yes, I have seen them, thank you."

Orlando, looking up to receive her
answer, saw the change in her face too.

'' You are not looking so well," said he,
quickly.

I was a little tired, that is all."

She managed to speak in her usual voice ;
to smile was more than she could do.

She could see, as through a clear water,
every fluctuation of his feeling ; could
understand all that he had intended and
tried to do. Was there any other man
who would have done this ? Oh, and all
the more must she set him free. What a
love might have been hers once ! But now
it was too late. Never, even in the year
when he knew her first, had she brought
that look into his eyes.

And now came in Gilbert from the sea,
very much sunburnt, to a tint, not of
brown, but of red, and bringing tales of
successful sea-fishing.

Where was Rob } " he asked. Surely

Orlando had not disappointed the children
by not bringing Rob.

"Rob is at Sherborne-on-Land," said
Orlando, and he looked a little embarrassed.


Left poor Rob to solitude and the
tender mercies of servants ' What a
shame ! " said Gilbert

He is not left to the servants. He is
at the Duncannons', with Miss Cash 
whom he is fonder of than anybody. I
think I shall have to give him to her,
for his own sake."

He did not look up as he spoke. To
Elizabeth every word was confirmation.
He had broken with that part of his life.
He was even putting away from him his
dog. She judged wrongly, not appreciating
 as perhaps it was hardly possible that
she should  the depth of union between
Orlando and Viola, to which the breaking
or retaining of such an outward bond could

do nothlnof. Far other had been Orlando's
thought. He had left her the dog as the
one thing which he might dare to give her,
and with some faint hope that the dumb
affection which had been so true to him
might be a presence of comfort to her.

Gilbert said a few words of surprise.
Millie preserved a complete silence, but
smiled to herself in the happy belief of her
full comprehension.

Have you seen that photograph of
Viola Cash, Gilbert ? " she asked, presently.

'' Oh,  ah. But how did she come to betaken
in this outlandish costume ? "

Oh, she stood for one of her brother-in-law's
pictures in it, and Mrs. Haverdike
persuaded her to be taken in It."

'* Have you seen the picture, Orlando ? "
asked Gilbert.

'' Yes ; I saw Duncannon painting it.
You'll see a photograph of it among the
others, but I fancy it is not quite finished."

Oh, I suppose it is Elaine. I should
never have thought of painting her for
anything so sentimental."

I wonder whether that is all her own
hair?" said Millie.

Yes, it is," said Orlando, rather sharply ;
and then, in a quieter tone, " I happened
to see it painting, as I said."

Then the talk flowed off into other
channels, and Viola's name was mentioned
no more; but Elizabeth's mind was occupied
still by the graceful figure of the
picture, the long, shining hair, and the
sweet, serious face of her unseen rival.

Orlando on his part had come to Sher-borne
desiring to proclaim his engagement
at the earliest moment that Elizabeth would
permit, and resolving to plead urgently fora
speedy marriage. While all remained
hidden, every moment held the possibility
of change of resolution. He longed to put
out of his power that perpetual renewal of

decision ; it would be better to be bound
indissolubly ; embarked definitely upon his
course, and free from the haunting under-thought
that still it was time to turn back.

And meanwhile it should be his endeavour
to make Elizabeth happy and at
peace. His manner to her to-night had
more of the tone of a lover than ever
before. She, however, rather shrank away,
anxious before all things not to arouse
suspicion in Millie ; and Orlando, when
he perceived that she shrank, obeyed her
wish by an immediate return to his former
modes of speech. She noticed that when
no longer devoting himself to her, he sank
into depressed silence, and that when someone
spoke to him, he started. Her heart
sank within her. Oh, if the long battle
were only over  if Heaven had but vouchsafed
to her the mercy of death, that she
might be lying, now, under the cypresses
at Nice with her father! Yet another

landmark of pain must be reached, and
passed, tomorrow. It would be a better
fate to drop upon her course to-night, and
never need to rise and struggle any morea
better fate, but not hers.

And to Orlando too it would have
seemed a happiness to lay down the load
of life. A constant shame pursued him ;
he bore about a sense of guilt, of falsehood,
of dishonour. He who, all his life, had
had so high an idea of simplicity and
sincerity, how did it happen that he had
become involved in a course of imperative
deceit ? How had he brought his life to
such a pass as this ? Ah, if it were his
own life only ! To him, as to Elizabeth,
the night came as a respite. To-morrow
the battle again, but for to-night solitude,
and peace from the fear of self-betrayal.

CHAPTER XIV.

SET FREE.

It is a truth (and it would be a very sad one but for
the higher hopes which it suggests) that no great mistake,
whether acted or endured in our mortal sphere, is ever
really set right. Time, the continual vicissitude of
circumstances, and the invariable inopportunity of death,
render it impossible. If, after long lapse of years, the
light seems to be in our power, we find no niche to set
it in. The better remedy is for the sufferer to pass on,
and leave what he once thought his irreparable ruin
behind him."  Nathaniel Hawthorne.

The morning rose blue over the hazy sea,
bringing back Its burden of pain. To
Orlando the misery of each returning day
became more and more insupportable.
The sole thought of comfort in his life
was the thought that Elizabeth would be
happy. For her sake he would strive to
put off the outward appearance of his

trouble. Happily, he thought, she was
less clear-sighted than Viola. Yet, when
they met at breakfast, Elizabeth could
read his face like a book, and knew afresh
that he was yielding his life for her sake.

A bove that sunny front room where
they had breakfasted was another, smaller,
which was considered to be specially
reserved for Cousin Lizzie. Thither she
went after breakfast, taking a book in her
hand. Orlando, she knew, was going to
look at some building that was being
erected at the northern part of the village.
He would not be long, he had said, incoming
back. She stationed herself by
the open window to watch for his return.
And here, presently, she saw him come,
his dark face bent down a little, full of
thought. As he neared the house he
looked up. She beckoned, and saw his
face reply. In another minute, he was
in the room.

She came towards him.

I want to speak to you, please."

"Yes," said Orlando, gently attentive
to gather her least wish.

'' I have been thinking about our future
and about myself. Will you blame me,
I wonder, if I do what seems strange ?
Will you think me very fickle if I tell you
that I want to go back from my word ? "

So far she had said her lesson bravely
and successfully, but in rehearsing it to
herself she had omitted to reckon for her
hearer's attitude, and the surprised  ay,
surely, the grieved  expression of his eyes
threw her from her calm ; her prepared
lesson broke down into a sudden low-voiced
cry. '' Oh, don't, don't look at me
like that!"

"What?" said Orlando  "what is it
that you mean ? You want to go back
from your word ? "

As he spoke, a slow red deepened upwards

from his lips, and Elizabeth saw,
through the surprise and grief, the throb
of another change, slight and repressed,
but Hke the Hating of a cloud.

Sickening certainty came upon her. For
the first time she knew that she had hoped,
against hope, for some rebellion, some
denial, some quick demand of cause.
How could she oh, how could she carry
out her task ? She must ; there was no
hope ; she must.

'' Yes," she said, finding only the one
word to cling to, and as she said it, Q-ettino-
strength to go on to the next. 'eyes, I
must indeed I must. You must forgive
me. I was dazzled for a moment. I
ought to have known. The past can't
come back again.

'There are no birds in last year's nests'"
Her words came slowly, weighted by
a terrible sense of irritability. One by
one, a few slow tears gathered and ran
down her face.

Don't, Elizabeth, don't. It breaks my
heart to hear you. Is there anything that
I have done or said to wound you ? My
dear, the only hope that is left me now
is the hope of making you happy. I have
made a failure of my life in so many ways ;
don't tell me that I have failed In this too."

He drew his arm round her gently.

What if she yielded now ? Why, why,
should she not take this, her last hope,
which, he said, was his hope too ? There
are moments in which we are tempted to
wish our highest motives away, that we
might take the desire of our hearts ruthlessly
and be at ease. Oh for the lower
conscience which could be content to marry
him, and believe that by-and-by she would
be able to make him happy ! But deeper
down lay the knowledge that, though she
should die of pain, she would be constrained
to cro on to the end. She shook
her head, faintly, desperately, as the martyr

might at the stake, putting away the dear
hope of Hfe which yet his soul cries out for.

Not your fault  no fault of yours 
nothing you have done or said. We make
our lives. The wheel can't be turned
back again ; the old memory was better."

Orlando, still holding her in his embrace,
felt every word go to his heart. All
personal hopes, all thought of Viola, melted
away before the intense, soul-oppressing
desire to atone to Elizabeth for all the
sufferings of her life. And his own inability
to bring back the old love was but
one cause for atonement the more.

You are not angry with me, are you ? "
said she, watching his face. '' I am only
doing what I know is for the best."

'angry with you ! No, indeed. Heaven
forbid that I should hold you to a promise
that is not for your happiness. But I
hoped it would have made you happy."

I think the days when I might have

been happy are gone for ever. Long ago,

when you loved me first, perhaps But

it is too late now. You must let me go,
Orlando ; it is all that you can do. I shall
always be grateful to you for all you would
have done for me."

Her voice lingered upon his name. She
could not bear to withdraw herself from
the touch of his arm. Soon the memory
of these things would be all that would
be left her. Then came Orlando's words,
soft as the touch of loving hands with
balm to a wound.

Trust me, Elizabeth ; let me try to
make you happy."

The memory came back to her of a
morning when she also had said, " I will
try to make you happy."

All the ensuing, futile sorrow and labour
of soul rolled in swift panorama before her.
Alas, '' Let me make you happy," is not
the cry of love. She knew that even

Orlando, if he were wooing Viola, would
have pleaded, '' Make me happy ! " Should
she accept from him all the long, Danaid
labour which she had undergone for
Captain Grove ? That thought gave her
back her resolution.

I do trust you  with my whole heart
I trust you  but, as your wife, I could
never be happy, now. I can't explain it ;
it is like tearing my heart out to try.
You must believe me and forgive me.
You must let me 2:0, Orlando. Indeed, it
is better so."

Sighing, he dropped his arm from around
her ; his hand touched hers. "At least, we
may be friends, Elizabeth."

The tone, with a sudden echo in it of
that day In the Botanical Gardens, so long
ago, seemed to melt her heart. She knew
that, from this day, they must hardly meet,
but of what avail would it be to say so ?

She answered apathetically, " Yes." But

VOL. III. T

inwardly she was battling against the fierce
impulse to pour forth the whole truth in a
flood of passionate words. Let her hasten
to make an end. She lifted her eyes
slowly, and said, " Good-bye."

It sounded like a farewell spoken at the
foot of a scaffold. To Orlando, all uncomprehending
as he was, came somewhat
the feeling of one who is forced to turn
back into the world, leaving his friend to
go alone through that terrible gate into
the mystery beyond.

'' Elizabeth ! " said he.

The appeal, urgent, yet infinitely tender,
forced her, in spite of herself, to look up.
The mute anguish of her eyes held its own
answer.

'* Is this for my sake?" said Orlando,
his voice falling.

For a moment there was no reply.
Then came the words, drawn from her,
and spoken quickly, in a thin, high tone.

the cry of utmost pain, " You will marry
some one happier  fitter for you than I
could ever have been."

Orlando's face crimsoned in one flush,
as it might have done at a sudden blow.

Never, Elizabeth  never ; unless you
can look me in the face and tell me that
you don't love me."

The troubled terror of her eyes rather
grew than faded.

No, no," she answered, vehemently.
Indeed, it can't be. I have known what
it is to be always trying  always labouring
to make up for a love that you cannot
give. I know it all. I can't let you do
that for me. Nothing that I have suffered
would be a suffering like that."

To Orlando it seemed that no suffering
of his had been like this moment's.

You say you trust me, Elizabeth ; then
trust me altogether. It would never belike
that past, my dear. There would

never be a whisper of reproach of you,
not only on my lips  you know that 
but in my heart."

Oh, I know  I know ! " she answered.
'' But the one thing that would make life
worth living would be gone away from
you. I should never be able to hear her
name without knowing that I had wronged
you. I did not mean to tell you  I did
not mean to pain you ; but the truth is
best, after all, and you have found me out.
It is true, Orlando ; I never could be happy
as your wife  never. If you had loved
me best  ah ! then, perhaps, it might have
been. But you won't be so cruel now as
to tell me so, when it is not true. I know
you would have done everything for me,
and never let me guess. But I should
have guessed all the same, and I should
have been more, more miserable than I
ever have been yet."

'' Time would have altered everything,"

said Orlando, with the accent of hardly
endurable pain. '* And now that you
know it all, I say still, as I said to you
that day in the gardens, that if I may
bring back some happiness to you, my life
will satisfy me better than any other way."

'' Oh, Orlando, don't ! don't ! You only
make it worse. I know all that, and that
is the very reason why it can never be.
Could you be happy to let  Viola  do this
for you ? "

Heaven forbid !" said Orlando, startled
into emphatic truth.

Elizabeth smiled, sadly enough, and let
the smile drop again.

'' You see ? Now you understand ? "

Orlando stood silent, answered out of
his own mouth.

She drew a little nearer.

"We have been unfortunate to one
another ; but it is all over now. I am
glad to have known that there was a man

in the world who would do such a thing.
You have brought me more comfort than
pain. I want you to remember that, always.
When I was away and in trouble, and
tempted very much sometimes, I used to
think of you, and of what you would have
done. We must not meet again yet ; not
for a long time, perhaps. But when you
tell her the story, tell her that, too."

I will," Orlando answered. Then, with
his eyes upon her face, ' Kiss me, Elizabeth,
once."

Slowly, and with drooping eyelids, she
lifted up her face and they kissed each
other, for the first time and the last.
Orlando, as her face sank away from him,
felt, with an aching as of tears at his heart,
that here the story of his youth was ended.

For her, she felt the earnest grasp of her
hands in his, the touch of his lips, the
separation. For a moment she stood with
her head bent and her eyes closed ; then,

slowly, she opened her eyes and was alone.
In her heart was the peace of struggles,
now, at last, over. There was nothing
left to hope or to fear, henceforth. " I
have finished with life," she murmured to
herself.

She sat down, once more, in the chair
from which she had risen to watch for
Orlando's coming. That had happened
when she lived in another world. Below
her she heard the voices of Millie and
Gilbert, and in the next room the patter of
the children's feet and their ermine
laughter. She smiled gently ; all this
happy life was well. It was good that
there should be this peace and content in
the world. For her, her life was done ;
the tranquillity of age had come to her.
She had fought her battle and Heaven had
given her strength to conquer. From this
time she mioht have rest. Never aoain
should come the heat and cold, the hope

and the defeat, of personal struggle. Only,
there were others in the world to whom
she might bring help, and that was well.
Her lips formed themselves to the familiar
words heard yesterday, in the little church
among the graves : ' Lord, now hottest thou
Thy servant depart in peace.'

Death was far off yet ; she did not
desire to call it nearer. In this world was
peace enough. The blue, still sea was a
delight ; a bird was chirping on the housetop,
and the voices of the children were at
hand. Sitting, with her hands folded upon
her book, Elizabeth Glendinning looked
back upon her life, which had opened with
every promise of hope, and which ended
thus, and told herself that there was no
moment of it which she would exchange
for this.

Orlando went out, and leaving the town
behind him, sought the heightening cliffs
that run away to the north. There, with

the blue, many-twinkling sea before him,
and above him the softer blueness of the
sky, creeping down by imperceptible degrees
to meet it, he threw himself on the
short grass and looked his life in the face.
Through all his aching sorrow of sympathy
for Elizabeth, he felt yet that this solution
was the best, the truest, the most natural.
It was as if he had come up into the light
out of a dark and airless passage. His
entreaties to Elizabeth had been full of an
agonized sincerity, yet he felt that it was
better they should not have been granted
better not for his own happiness (that
would have seemed to him, had he thought
about it, to be dislocated beyond all
possibility of setting right), but absolutely
better, more in accordance with the inner
laws of nature. He was free, but it was
the freedom of a man whose friend has
fallen in his place. The Te Dettm of
victory is a melancholy music, full of recollection

of the dead ; yet It Is a music of
triumph, as the words of a funeral service
are words of hope, suggesting the higher
harmony in which this discord melts.
Orlando looked back as we look back
when all Is over; the event has rounded
to a perfect past, we can see now what was
its form. As the lower branches fall off
from the rising tree, that past had fallen
from him, leaving the growth of his life to
burgeon, unimpeded, into its truer shape.
Yet they fed the tree, and their influence
lives on it and moulds the new year's
flowers. The past is but dead in the body,
its spirit survives and works.

Orlando, lying here to-day, thought of
that other Orlando, that younger brother, so
like and so unlike himself, who, seven years
ago, lay looking onward into his life. There
are no words in which to say that fulfilment
had not been attained. His. life had
shaped itself to the outward pattern of all

that he had dreamed ; the love for which
he had hoped had come to him in a full
clearness that put his visions to shame.
Yet how different was it all in looking
back  how much deeper, fuller, more painful,
more emotional, different with all the
difference of the smile on a boy's lips
then, and the sigh on a man's now ! He
had ' won through,' as the poetic Scotch
phrase has it ; but the winner as well as the
loser comes out of the fight soiled and
dusty, with his armour bruised and his
limbs weary, not with the smile of anticipation
and the even breathing of untried
strength. As he lay, hearing below him
the murmur of the unseen waves, Orlando
lived through his youth again, and understood
the slow sweetening of the crude
purpose into the ripe, the slow broadening
of narrow into wider fields of hope, all the
gradual growth of the soul which made the
aspirations of this second pausing place so

like, in the words that might have clothed
them, to those of the first, so far apart
from them in inner spirit. For the truths
which he had known by name then, he
knew now face to face, had lived beside
them and felt their breath upon him.
Opening his eyes to the immeasurable blue,
he lay, not trying to fasten the fetters of
speech upon his thought, letting his soul
breathe itself up through the summer
silence in a deep, reverent communion.
Slowly the stillness deepened, and the blue
deepened with it to the noon. Orlando,
rising, turned homeward to meet his new
life ; to meet, not as once before, a face
that fitted itself to his dreams, but the
woman whose full soul made answer to
his own.

