Chapter I.

THE FOUNTAIN OF THE PORTICO.

People said they were American. Other people
said they were English ; but, then, those who
said so were French, or German, or Eussian, to
whom there is no appreciable difference between
the denizens of the Old and the New
Worlds.

To Continental outsiders it seems beyond
expression strange that an Englishman should
resent being taken for an American, and
vice versa. ' You are all one family,' they
say ; ' why should the mother disclaim her
daughter because mademoiselle has other
manners, other views of life, than obtained
when madame was . . . before she had made
monsieur the happiest man in the universe ? *

VOL. L B .

2 AUT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

(Here the hand is laid gently on the diaphragm,
slightly to the left of the central waistcoat
button, and madame is supposed to utter little
soft deprecating shrieks of delight at the
elegance of the compliment, at the exquisite
grace of the complimented.) ' Or why should
the daughter show impatience of maternal
prejudices, so called, and boast of her own
superiority, since the very qualities she prizes,
and upon which she plumes herself, are due to
the facts of her birth and parentage? You
others, you English, you are eccentric even in
the life of the family ; for one family you are,
and one you remain ; and, split straws as you
may, upon outsiders you make precisely one
and the same impression.'

Yes ; and the worst of it is,' a young fellow
was saying to a brother Oxonian on whom he
had pounced, a godsend in this weary waste
of (German) waters, ' they are all so awfully
bumptious ! What ? " / dont understand the
language, so how do I know ? " Why, don't
they understand mine, 'and yours  beg pardon,
old fellow, I don't mean to say they'd know
your brogue, you know  and his, and hers,
and its, and theirs, and ours ? They're about
the polyglottiest "cusses" out; and as to "side "

THE Fountain OF THE PORTICO. 3

side isn't in it. You wait until you've taken
off the stains of travel, and unpacked your
top-hat and patent leathers, and I'll take you to
where the band plays. Come to see your aunt
and uncle f Lucky fellow ! I've been six
weeks stewing in this steam-kettle, simmering,

and Well, you have only to look at me

to see I'm literally "done to rags." The climate
and the cooking have made such inroads upon
my person and constitution ; and yet my mother,
such is the utter and brutal selfishness of the
modern parent, my mother don't see it, and
won't commit herself to saying when her
cure " will be over. Where are ice . Oh !
we are staying at the " Rose'' But don't come
there, for the cook is in league with the doctors,
and we are fed on husks, and grease, and
boiled milk adulterated in various economical
forms. Go to the " Quatre Saisons"" where
they have a French chef. And I will come
round and fetch you in half an hour.'

Fitzgerald, who had scarcely uttered a word,
and only asked one or two questions, was
slightly surprised to be addressed thus familiarly
by Hudson, a man neither of his year nor of
his college at Oxford. He had met this ingenuous
and garrulous youth at ' a wine ' or

B 2

4 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

two on the banks of the Isis, and lead heard
him once make an egregious fool of himself at
the Debating Club ; but these little episodes
dated a good way back in his natural history,
and Oxonian etiquette demanded a more respectful
and distant style of approach from a
junior to a 'don'; so Fitzgerald told himself
with a grim smile, as he tried to dip his sunburned
countenance into a pudding-basin full
of water, and only contrived in his sputtering
to slop the precious element over the white-draped
washing-stand, and waste it on the
bare boards of his uncarpeted room. Nevertheless,
a finer, cleaner, brighter specimen of
a well-bred young Englishman had seldom
stepped out of the classic portico of the
Quatre Saisons,' at Sprudelheim, than Mr.
Gerald Fitzgerald, in what Hudson irreverently
called his 'second-best Sunday-go-to-meeting-
togs, Lincoln and B., and patent agonies,' when,
on that bright July evening, destiny sent him,
innocently rejoicing, on his way.

For a few minutes, after meeting the renovated
traveller, the irrepressible Hudson, awed
by reminiscent traditions of the formulae of
university etiquette, restrained the unruly
member in accordance with the Pauline pre-the

FOUNTAIN OF THE PORTICO. 5

sept ; but after the lapse of ninety odd seconds,
his overwrought feelings proved too much for
him, and, without preface or preamble, he again
broke out with his interrupted confidences : 

They gave you a sugar-basin to wash in, I
suppose ? Fancy, my mother is so blindly partial
that she says it is preposterous to complain
of domestic washing arrangements, when there
are such splendid public baths for everyone, and
to spare. By the way, don't put anything into
the drawers if you ever expect to get your
clothes out again. There is a key which fits
every chest of drawers in Sprudelheim, and you
have to turn it round to some particular angle,
invented for the benefit of the natives, and
pull vehemently. The chest hobbles about,
and the drawers rattle, but they don't move.
There are no shutters to the windows, so there
is no night. At five o'clock the water-drinking
begins. The poor wretches drink from five
till seven, or from six till eight. They walk
up and down in appalling deshabille telling
each other their various complaints in the most
unvarnished fashion, and boasting of how many
'' beakers " they have arrived, by dint of practice,
at swallowing. All the time the band
plays  nothing can be done without the braying

6 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

of brass, in Germany. " Music hath power to
soothe the savage soul," and to soften the horrors
(at any rate to the native) of the Sprudelheimer
Kur." After coffee and rolls  no butter 
the tormented are allowed to rest. Then the
tubbing " begins. Then table cVhote, which
the natives call Mittagsessen, that is " ,"
you know ; it'll remind you of all sorts
of things  it does me : of the parable about
the Prodigal Son ; of the Zoo ; of a railway
buffet, and the express starting in a minute
and a half, and the waiter gone to get change
for a half-sovereign, and your half-pint of
claret waiting to get uncorked, and the bell
ringing, and no chance of another meal for
ten hours. I'm sick of people saying they're
frightened when the Germans begin to swallow
their knives. Why should they be frightened
at their juggling tricks ? I dare say I'm a brute,
but people have been talking about it so long
that I wish they hould swallow them once for
all, or cut their tongues out, or choke whilst
they're drinking the gravy, or spluttering over
the lumps of bread they wipe up the grease

with '

You seem very irate,' said Fitzgerald, smiling
on the splenetic youth and his confidences.

THE FOUNTAIN OF THE PORTICO. 7

Wait until you have had as much of it as
I have,' Hudson went on. ' It's not that I care
for. It's their conceit, their priggishness, the
way they look over a fellow's head, the idea
they've got that they've done what no one
else ever did before. But you'll see ; ' and the
angry but garrulous young man rushed on, displaying
an energy more in accordance with his
exasperated feelings than in harmony with the
delicious warmth and stillness of a July evening,
specially made for loitering.

All their surroundings were fresh, bright,
and radiant. The honos avenue through which
they were passing was lit up with the golden
glory of the sun's declining rays. The foliage
looked as bright and freshly green as if June
were still on the threshold. The trunks of the
trees, barred with sunset gold, bordered the
leafy aisles like gilded columns ; the carefully
tended flower-beds, on the carefully kept lawns
to the right, were fragrant with bloom ; not a
faded blossom or withered leaf to be seen.
German nurseries, with quaint, mummified
babies swathed in odd-looking cotton-mantles,
sauntered to and fro, carrying closed umbrellas
and parasols ; the awkward peasant figures, and
thick coils of plaited hair stuck through with

8 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

arrows, or spears, or huge-headed pins, or
partly covered by embroidered velvet caps,
taken with the parasols, suggested an odd sense
of incongruity. Their large feet, encased in
coarse white knitted stockings and thick roughly-made
shoes, their frilled cotton cloaks, and
the rolling uncouthness of their gait, caused one
involuntarily to look at them again and again,
wondering whether, though obviously young,
they could ever have moved lightly and swiftly,
and why they should have such fine hair and
such horrible teeth, such huge waists and enormous
feet, were so generally " dowdy," and yet
wore head-dresses so smart and picturesque.

Children were playing in the dust of the
Allen ; calling to each other in little shrill
guttural voices, softly rasping the evening air,
with a sense of gently-jarring surprise. Near
some of the seats toys, of strictly German
build, strewed the ground.

That's the Kursaal,' Hudson said, stopping
suddenly in the midst of his jeremiads to
point out a large building at the end of the
avenue. ' In old days, before Prince Bismarck
had turned puritan, " purged, left sack, and
lived cleanly," that was where the gambling
went on. They gambol still, but it's spelt

THE FOUNTAIN OF THE PORTICO. 9

differently. And I, for one, don't care to go
and look on at a set of Prussians dancing withall
the prettiest English girls in the place. I
don't go near their " Balls," on principle, and
I hope you won't either. Americans toady
the Germans in a sickening way. I think we
ought to make a stand, you know. At any
rate that's where I draw the line.'

I don't know,' Fitzgerald said, smiling ;
*I'm not so tremendously in earnest as you
are. I'm older, you see, and have grown lazy
and apathetic. I have no particular principles
about dancing, or about anything else, that I'm
aware of. Only, as a general rule, I think ita
mistake to set oneself up at Eome against
the Romans.'

Well, you will see,' Hudson answered.
 Come round this way and we can have a
look at the people I was telling you about.
They know lots of Germans, but I will show
them to you from a distance. Then you can
judge. I am certain they are English  certain.
But of course foreigners never know a Yankee
from a John Bull, and as Americans are
popular and we aren't over here, my unknown
friends are supposed to have an oil or shoddy
background.'

lo  AUT Caesar A UT NIHIL,

The two young men crossed a low colonnade.
In the centre of a large grass plot a
fountain was playing. On the opposite side
of the road a public square, formed by the
theatres and three hotels, made a pleasant
quadrangle. At the end of the grass plot,
passing beneath a Grecian portico, you entered
the Kursaal ; some classical subjects painted
in fresco above the pillars gave a pleasant
touch of colour. The sound of the water
splashing and tinkling in the marble basin fell
refreshingly on the ear. It seemed to soothe
Fitzgerald in a peculiar manner, as he mentally
contrasted it with the late snorting and
puffing of locomotives and steamboats, the
shaking and grinding of railway carriages and
omnibuses which he had endured. The
surrounding calm suggested a haven, even
though a strange one, reached at last, where
one could stretch one's legs, get up when one
chose, make a due selection of raiment, and
generally indulge in the far niente that never
seems so agreeable as after days of hurried
travel.

He paused a moment to look at the
feathery foam of the fountain falling in prismatic
colours ; to take in the long sweep of

THE FOUNTAIN OF THE PORTICO. ii

green lawn, pillared portico, marble column,
and frescoed pediment, in their classic calm
and severe silent beauty.

Like a vale in Tempe,' he said, pointing
to the distance ; ' or these might be the groves
of Academe. One might fancy a group of
dryads and satyrs coming out of the woods
yonder ; or Plato, Aristotle, and Socrates
serenely discoursing wisdom to their respective
disciples beneath the columns of the
portico.'

But Hudson was in no mood for academical
reflections. ' Don't let us talk " shop,"
or bring those old fellows up here,' he said
irreverently. ' I'm sure we've enough and to
spare of their "jaw" at our own beloved
Alma Mater ; for my part I think the whole
thing stuff.'

you Goth, you Iconoclast, you outer
barbarian ! '

The strains of Strauss's waltzes flew, lightly
intermittent, through the elastic air, in little
zephyr-like sound messages. The thin clear
quality of the stringed instruments was in
accord with the high columnar ripples of
aerial waters whispering a hasty message, as
they reached the summit, to the setting sun,

12 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

and falling in wide, wavering lines against the
encircling boundary of the marble basin, with
a low lapping sound, suggestive of plenitude
and contentment.

The sand in this retired part of the garden,
which had been carefully raked long before
dawn, still bore at sun-down the marks of the
artificial care intended to supplement the deficiency
of the unattainable gravel of English
pathways. One could see that few persons
frequented this side of the Kursaal, for the
footprints crossing the sand were few and far
between.

'Not even gravel, without which even your
cockney has no claim to call his yard a
garden,' muttered Hudson, in intense disgust,
indicating the rake-marks with a contemptuous
motion. ' Fancy raking dust, by way
of making a model garden-path ; and if you
were to say anything, they would fly at your
throat and argue your head off, to prove that
a good hard gravel path was very inferior to
diurnally dust-raked ways ! '

I'm not sure that I don't admire them for
that. There is good sound philosophy in
liking what you can get, when you can't get
what you like.'

THE FOUNTAIN OF THE PORTICO. 13

Ah ! well, wait. Perhaps you won't
admire them so much by-and-bye.'

And the two young men sauntered on.

As they turned the left hand corner of the
building, and came to the border of the little
wood that Fitzgerald mentally decided must
form a pleasant retreat and screen against the
sun's scorching rays during the mid-day, an
animated scene presented itself to their view.

A large lake stretched its shining waters in
serpentine perspective far beyond the immediate
precincts of the garden. From its centre,
a beautiful fountain repeated, on a much larger
scale, the rhythmic splash and ripple that had
charmed Fitzgerald already in the fountain of
the portico. In the immediate foreground,
showing doubly white upon the double shadow
of wood and water, floated two magnificent
swans, swerving now to this side, now to that,
arching their white necks as though in silent
disdain of the admiration noisily invading their
element.

In a rotunda sat the musicians, whose eloquent
' discourses ' kept together the two or
three hundred persons, some walking to and
fro in pairs, some sitting at tables eating ices
and drinking coffee, some silent, some in cont

 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

verse, some tlirowiiig pastry and sweetmeats to
the swans, others laughing and talking as loudly,
as much pro ho7io as if they were alone in the
safe seclusion of their own grounds. A motley
scene indeed, taken in contrast with the solitude
and silence whence the young men suddenly
emerged.

Predominant, as to numbers, colour, and
general importance were the Prussian military.
Tightly buttoned up in resplendent uniforms,
smart as buckram and belts, pipe clay and
pomade, stocks and straps, could make them,
these modern sons of Mars stepped loftily along,
squaring their shoulders, straightening their
backs, and saluting with an angular formality
that made their arms appear less like the independent
limbs of a human being than the mechanical
elbow-joints of a cleverly contrived
automaton. Their eyes appeared to Fitzgerald's
fancy to roll portentously, and their blonde
moustaches to bristle aggressively beneath the
repressive wax of the military barber. Sometimes
their sword-scabbards clanked resonantly
against the ground ; anon one hand would be
laid upon the hilt, whilst the other would be
raised in all the stiff precision of the regulation
military salute ; now and again a young dandy

THE FOUNTAIN OF THE PORTICO. 15

Avould be seen picking up his sabre with an
air of coquetry, as a belle does her flowing
skirts, preparatory to sitting down, amongst a
circle of admirers, the cynosure of neighbouring
female eyes. Some of the younger exquisite
hung for a second on the arm of the
Fidus Achates of the moment, apparently absorbed
in the communication of piquant details.
Others made fleeting confidences of an
evidently highly-entertaining character, separating
again immediately with a burst of
laughter, and the ' No really ! ' ' Ton honour ! '
of the dandiacal of every clime. An air of
almost obtrusive camaraderie appeared to be
affected by these conquering heroes ; and a
man would not need to be very sensitive or
very quarrelsome to suspect them of a preconceived
determination to look over his head,
and to treat him, should they be accidentally
brought together, absolutely in all respects as
though he were not present, his entity nonexistent,
not to be recognised, and of no possible
sort of account.

All this Fitzgerald seemed to see and take
in at a glance, and in the background of his
mind he was aware of a vague impression that
a quarrel with one of these gentlemen must

i6 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

perforce be but an empty unsatisfactory kind of
thins, and better avoided. This mem. made a
note of, he stuffed it away into the pocket-book
of his mind, trusting to chance to put him on
its traces should occasion call for it.

Look, there they are, there ! ' said Hudson,
taking hold of Fitzgerald's arm, and somehow
seeking to direct his vision by a strenuous
pressure of that member, and a warning intonation
of voice. ' Look ! to the left of the
fourth orange-tree  there  a man is bomng
to them. Did you ever see such antics ? That's

Baron , but never mind his name. What

does it matter ? He has taken himself off,
thank goodness. Now you can see them ; she
has a pale bonnet, I don't know the colour ;
the old gentleman has not dyed his moustache
to-day. I'd bet my boots that hat comes out
of Bond Street. Of course the natives think
that, if the people I'm telling you about are
Americans, there must be money and matrimonial
designs in the background. They are
so beastly cautious and mercenary these Germans.
We English are quite at a discount in
this country. For one thing, we are all poor,
nowadays. Lots of shady Britishers seeking
Continental retirement, and the natives don't

THE FOUNTAIN OF THE PORTICO. 17

like it  small blame to them. But Americans
they do like, and American girls and their
fortunes too. There ! now you can see them.
My mater says she thinks her the loveliest girl
she ever saw. What do you say ? They are
coming this way, by Jove ! Tell me if you
think they are starred or striped. I bet fifty
to one they are English. They will pass close
by us. Look at them both. Tell me if you

think '

Think  why, what nonsense ! ' Fitzgerald
said, colouring as he spoke. ' These are the
people I've come over here to see. My aunt
and cousins.'

VOL. I.

AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

CHAPTER IT.

ET TU, Brute ! '

The little party was advancing across the level
green sward. Mr. Hudson's anonymous Baron
had bowed himself into the background, with
repeated wriggling and reverences, squaring
the inevitable elbow, saluting in the high
military fashion, making little, precise regulation
hops to the right and to the left, almost
like the figure of a comic dance, clicking his
heels together every time he came into position,
bringing his moustache almost on a level nth
his waistband, condescending, angular, emphatic.
Fitzgerald noticed that there was a
great deal of grass between his well-squared
elbows and his judiciously-compressed waist,
and as the Baron ' trimmed his belt and his
buckles, and turned out his toes,' it indistinctly
occurred to him that life was not long enough
in less luxurious lands for these elaborate farewells.


ET Tow Brute



Unlike his companion he was amused,
tickled, with a pleasant sub-acute sense of the
humorous, as though the little scene were being
enacted for his entertainment.

Hudson's tongue had suddenly stopped. He
was mentally rushing backwards and forwards
through his confidences of the last hour or two,
and trying retrospectively to recall whether he
had said anything he ought not to have said
about Fitzgerald's relatives. Of course, as a
matter of taste, it was ' a nuisance ' that he should
have made these people the subject of what
might, by courtesy, be called his conversation.
But, then, ' How could a fellow know ? Only, to
be sure, everybody was related to everyone
else, nowadays.' And in his perplexity a
frantic desire to escape, and an ingenuous
impulse of shame sent the blood flying to his
face, and his tongue, suddenly paralysed, ceased
to prattle forth its ' ill-considered trifles.'

Three ladies and a gentleman were advancing
towards them, with that air of quiet unemotional
everydayishness which belongs to
the ordinary routine of life ; where one expects
nothing, avoids nothing, and accepts, as a
matter of course, the calm of the commonplace
and the event of the moment. They

c 2

20 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

were walking two and two ; they were walking
arm in arm ; and they were all strangely like
and yet unlike one another.

It was impossible to say where the family
likeness was carried over ; where softened into
doubt or strengthened into exaggeration ; by
what subtle shades of transmission the colouring
and expression of this young daughter of a
Eoman Marchese could yet bear a strong resemblance
to the frankly humorous features
of a cockney Irishman. How the high-bred
French Canadian lady had managed to transfer
something of her own essentially Gallic grace
to the typical Englishwoman whose mother she
was. The family strain, lost here like a brook
in the underwood, emerged there into daylight
again, and no one thought of examining the
water-course for traces of its unbroken continuity.
But this strange mixture of blood
fully accounted for the differing opinions of the
public as to the nationality of the family party.
Mr. Owen was an Irishman in name only. His
father, an absentee landlord, had, dans le
temps, married a plain portionless young person
from the Border-land. The lady had brought
nothing but her thriftiness and a debateable
accent as ' tocher ' into the family with her, until

'ET TU, BRUTE r 21

the birth of Garry, the only son and elder child.
There was a girl who later on married in
Ireland, and both children had been brought
up in London, where the boy was taught some
business or profession ; but losing his father
and mother whilst yet a youth, after some
years of idleness and folly, had married the
beautified Leonie de Courteville, whose acquaintance
he had made in Canada, when transacting
business for one of the many hundreds of successful
and unsuccessful companies with which
he had been connected during his chequered
career. Mr. Owen fell suddenly, madly,
irrationally in love with this quiet, refined,
not quite young, French lady. He had never
seen anything like her, and he determined to
marry her at any cost.

It cost little or nothing. Monsieur de
Courteville, 'pere was glad to ' settle ' his
proud, silent, beautiful daughter ; glad to meet
with a son-in-law who did not haggle as to
money, but promptly agreed to any and everything
proposed for the advantage of the Court-neville
family. Mdlle. de Courteville was not
much consulted in the matter. It was taken
for granted that she could have no objection.
The property would thus be kept together for

22 A UT CSAR A UT NIHIL.

the benefit of her elder and only brother.
Well-tutored French maidens understand their
personal unimportance as compared with the
general good of ' la famille ' too well to resist
parental pressure, and Leonie lifted up her
large brown eyes, listening attentively to all
that was said ; and, if she were sacrificed, went
to the altar resignedly  nay, rather with a
charming grace and diffident composure peculiarly
becoming under the circumstances.

If Mr. Owen had no misgivings before
marriage, he was not long in discovering, after
the irrevocable ceremony, the imprudence of
that rash anti-nuptial haste and hurry. He had

to make his bride's acquaintance ; and he

never made it. They were old people now ;
but, in some respects, as much strangers one
to the other, as they walk across the lawns of
Sprudelheim, parents and grandparents though
they be, as on that triumphant day when she 
Leonie  had taken him, Garry, to have and to
hold, according to the old fatal, final formula,
until death should them part.

But Mr. Owen was not a man either to
publish the history of his own discomfiture or
to weep in secret over the tragedy of mistaken
haste. Outwardly he remained an attentive



husband ; perhaps more scrupulously polite and
considerate to his wife than he was to anyone
else in the world ; never relapsing into the free-and-easy,
familiar tone common to his intercourse
with his general circle ; still less warming
into that condition of mutual confidence which,
in happy marriages, merges the dual existence
in spontaneous unity. One little daughter was
born to this reasonable couple, and there the
family came to an abrupt conclusion. Thenceforth
Leonie lived only for her child ; and if,
in the secrecy of her solitary chamber, the
lonely woman poured forth her rebellious soul
to God, there was no trace of such impassioned
pleadings, dumb agonies, and wild regrets in
her intercourse with the world. She sat hour
after hour in her silent room sewing, nursing
her baby, dressing it in delicate raiment, into
which she put much more than the marvellous
stitches so admired by her friends ; sending it
out into the sunshine, welcoming it home ;
musing it in beautiful, soft, silky, woolly garments
; superintending its washing and dressing,
admiring its lovely limbs and rosy hands and
feet  always on the alert, never forgetful of its
hen tire. Of the pathetic emptiness of such a
life, of its sense of utter failure and baffled

24 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

incompleteness, what true woman ever speaks?
And Leonie made no confidences. Her child
had need of her ; for its sake it was her duty to
live; and life for her meant solitude. By
degrees her husband got more used to, if never
entirely easy in, her presence. He kept his
loose jests, his free and somewhat vulgar manner
for times when she was not by. If people
whispered that his coarse nature found amusement
in a passing joke with women of an
altogether different type, and it was rumoured
that more than one good-looking serving-wench
had been sent away for presuming too far on
her master's favours and her mistress's forbearance,
Mrs. Owen made no sign.

A woman who utters no complaints is never
popular with her own sex. If only she would
air her grievances she would place herself on
an equality with other fair babblers, and her
humiliation would be a tacit triumph to critics
and sympathisers alike. But she can't expect
sympathy if she gives herself airs. A husband's
peccadilloes are the property of the female-gossips
of the neglected wife, and to defraud
them of any of their privileges is to insure their
indifference, if not their disHke.

Mr. Owen's obscure manner of life and

'ET TU, BRUTE r 2

manifold speculations kept the little household
permanently in that state of difficulty which
implies midnight calculations, anxious contrivances,
perennial self-denial, and perpetual
misgivings and uncertainty on the part of the
house-wife,

Mr. Owen was tolerably well off, met his
friends at clubs and taverns, and led on the
whole a jovial, roving, if not a very brilliant
existence. Mrs. Owen sat at home, wondering
how she should manage, reading and working,
praying to God, and nursing her child. Drinking
tea, and ' doing without,' so that Sunday's
dinner might have attractive features for the
lord and master, studying fresh economies and
possible retrenchments, was the life she led, and
it was supposed to be good enough for her. Was
she not a good woman (apart from her haughtiness
of disposition, and a certain high temper,
apt, if not judiciously curbed, to strain at camels),
and what did any good woman want more thana
baby, and buttons to sew on to her husband's
shirts ? Well-regulated women never
require equal companionship, interchange of
ideas, sympathy, consideration, and love, if the
husband withhold these boons. Thus, if at
times the proud strong nature of the woman.

26 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

the rich reserve of generous emotions, rose up
in conscious antagonism to the stagnation of her
existence, and fought and struggled passionately
in her pure breast for the mastery, who was any
the wiser ? She smote her fair bosom in self-accusing
penitence, ate out her heart in solitude,
and went on from day to day, from year to
year, along the straight unquestioned path of
duty.

When Hero was sixteen and Leonie forty-four,
the paper-mills, cofFee-plantations, patent
carriage-lamps, patent omnibus-checks, patent
bed-making machines, patent coal companies,
vegetable-sugar companies, Danubian loans,
Aztec-temples-restoration society, Mecca asso-
ciation-for-the-conveyance-of-pilgrims, Chinese
anti-pigtail association, patent wash-tubs company,
associated-Samaritan-loan company, and
a hundred other brilliant chimeras of Mr.
Owen's active brain, came to a definite, final,
and, as it seemed irrevocable, if also somewhat
lame and impotent, conclusion. Up to
the last, he maintained that he was bound to
make a fortune out of each and all of these
ingenious combinations of capital and intellect ;
but Fortune, proverbially blind, so persistently
turned her wheel the wrong way that, like the

ET TU, BRUTE!' 27

baseless fabric of a vision, the insubstantial
pageant of Mr. Owen's speculative fancy melted
into thin air, leaving not a vrack behind.
Then it was that the Marchese Martello, a scion
of the great Eoman house dei Martel, coming
to London about the affairs of the Pisan company
for straightening the Leaning Tower, saw,
wooed, and wedded the beautiful Hero Owen.

With that history, tragic or otherwise, we
have no immediate concern, though its effects
will hereinafter be seen, further than to state
that the Marchesa Martello, nee Hero Owen,
is now crossing the lawn at Sprudelheim, arm
in arm with her daughter, at every step approaching
her cousin, Gerald Fitzgerald, more
nearly. Mr. Owen, gallantly conducting his
wife, struts on slightly in advance, stopping
now and then that the delicate lady may rest.
She is slightly lame, and the exertions of even
what he calls her modified ' peripatetic performance
' sends the colour into her pure pale
face, flushing it painfully as she pauses in her
laboured progress. Mr. Owen speaks in a loud,
fluent, slightly dictatorial tone. He might bea
chairman addressing a board of directors, or
seeking to penetrate the thick skulls of unintelligent
shareholders.

28 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Gerald smiles as his uncle's familiar accents
are borne to him across the plashing of
the fountain, on the evening air. ' What a
Barnum the old fellow is ! ' he says to himself,
and looks past him at his womankind.

The Marchesa Martello is dressed, like her
daughter, in a plain material of creamy white,
that clings and falls in soft draperies, defining
both graceful figures, the slender girlish one, and
the more matured and womanly, in a modest
fashion that conveys an impression of ease and
comfort, together with trimness and spotless
purity. Their large sunshades are white, and so
are their hats and feathers, relieved by black
velvet bows, and bound broadly with velvet of
the same sombre hue. The mother wears black
gloves and black ornaments ; the daughter's
gloves are tucked with a pocket handkerchief
into the loose outside pocket of her dress ; a
gold thimble set with turquoise is on her dainty
finger, and some delicate frills and lace fill
the little work-basket she carries on her left
arm. On her right, with a pretty assumption
of protection and superiority, she supports her
mother.

A tall, womanly girl of sixteen, it seems
at first sight incredible that she can be the

'ET TU, BRUTE r 29

child of the woman leaning on her arm. Yet
a very few minutes' observation would convince
an acute stranger of the fact that they
are in very deed mother and child.

As for Mr. Owen, he flourishes with such
perennial youth, has such an excellent digestion,
sanguine temperament, and convenient conscience,
that for sixty-seven years he has slept
the refreshing sleep of the just ; and in constitution
and vivacity appears to be about five-ands
twenty.

How are you. Aunt ? ' says Gerald, lifting
his hat as he steps forward out of the shade, and
offers his hand to Mrs. Owen.

She takes it without comment. Life has no
surprises left for her. Welcome, rather than
astonishment, beams in her kindly eyes and
smiling mouth. ' Oh, ah, yes, of course, Fitz 
by all that's miracu  well, agreeable, propitious
; ' and Mr. Owen winks and coughs
as he amends his original greeting, and contrives
to get his elbow admonitory amongst
Fitzgerald's ribs, thus pointing the moral in the
direction of discreet silence.

The young man is not ill-natured. Two
beautiful ladies are looking at him with kind

30 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

eyes, waiting their turn ; of course he will not
betray his uncle.

Oh, ah, yes, of course ; the girls,' says ]mr.
Owen, following Gerald's eyes, ' charming surprise
for them. Not that they need cavalier e
servants quite the contrary ; but one has to be
careful of foreigners.'

How are you ? ' Gerald is saying to Hero,
taking her hand and looking naturally and
affectionately into her beautiful eyes. There
is reverence as well as affection in his gaze,
and for a moment it almost seems as though
he would kiss the hand he holds, before
making up his mind to relinquish it. But the
publicity of their surroundings forbids effusiveness,
and simpler habits prevail. After an
imperceptible pause the hand is dropped, and
Gerald looks across to Bianca, who is disputing
with her grandfather, a suspicion of latent
curiosity in his gaze.

'One has to be  careful?' she says. 'Of
what? Of whom? Of foreigners And why
of 'foreigners ? " Are we foreigners ? If so,
people ought to be "careful" (I suppose it's
something offensive) of us. I'm sure don't see
so much in English people to admire ! '

Et tu, Brute ! ' said Fitzgerald, laughing

'ET TU, Brute' 31

at the girl's tirade ; ' allow me to introduce my
friend Mr. Hudson, a patriotic Englishman, as
they say in the old plays. This is my uncle,
Mr. Owen, Hudson. My aunt, Mrs. Owen,
and these ladies, the Marchesa Martello and
her daughter, my cousins, you already know 
I dare say  by sight,' and Hudson, blushing
with joy and gratitude, bobs his head about in
acknowledgment of the introduction, looking,
after the fashion of the ingenuous British
adolescent, intensely and hopelessly youthful.

What did Fitz mean by saying I, too, was
a brute ? ' asked Bianca of the embarrassed
Hudson, as the little party, once again set in
motion, strolled through the cool colonnades.
Of course, I know about the quotation ; but
who is the other brute ? are you ? '

No, at least yes ; but not in that sense.
You don't seem to admire the English, and I
don't like the Germans, and he meant  he
meant  I can't explain what he meant,' stammered
the bashful youth. ' He had been talking,
you know, and I was a little illiberal,
perhaps  towards " foreigners," you know.'

Ah ! many Englishmen are,' Bianca
answered, with a capable air. From her
pinnacles of superior age and experience, she

32 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

affably condescended to a young man six or
eight years lier senior. ' I think it a mean trait
in the national character, myself. Not that weare
English. My grandpa is Irish, with a
Scotch or semi-Scotch mother; my grand-mamma
is French of the vieille roche if you
know what that means ; my father  well the
name Marchese Martello del Marcellus you
know, speaks for itself, and as his mother was
German, we are " pretty much mixed," as the
Americans say ; ' and she puts on a delightful
little nasal accent.

Hudson laughed, and then half apologetically
: ' You mustn't think I hate all foreigners,'
he said.

I am sure you are very kind to say so.'

Was she quizzing him? He was afraid to
look at her. Every now and then the Owens
paused, and then they all came together ina
little knot, and so stood talking until Mrs.
Owen again moved on.

'Have you known Fitz long?* Bianca
asked ; ' he's mamma's cousin, not mine. We
call him " Fitz " amongst ourselves, though
Gerald " is a prettier name.'

'We have been at college together. At
the same university I mean, though not at the

'ET TU, BRUTE!' 33

same time. That's very different, of course,
and I am not of his year said Hudson, feeling
suddenly very small.

But Fitz has done with college in a sense.
He is what they call " fellow and tutor " now :
the youngest at Oxford. Isn't that an honour ?
Only not all the fellows and tutors are allowed
to marry : and that's very hard upon them.
If they do, they have to give up their luxuries
and everything when they are quite old, and
begin life again as parsons, or if they don't like
that and are quite penniless, they must look out
for something else to do.'

Steely that is very seldom ? I know lots of
married Fellows.'

'I don't know. I've heard them talking
about it.'

Hudson suddenly remembered that several
terms had passed since he met Fitzgerald at
some party given in his honour. The young
don had then been resident at Oxford, in an
important position, the greater part of a year.
And he, Hudson, now in his ' third,' had been
guilty of the gross breach of university etiquette
implied by accosting a dignitary with as little
ceremony as if both had come w freshmen
together.

VOL. I. D

34 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

I think, if you will allow me, I will say
good-night,' lie miirmiired ; and with a confused
and mumbled farewell, the agitated youth took
his departure.

ingenuous puer ! ' cried Mr. Owen in
comment, this looks commercing with the skies.
What Hudsonss are those I wonder ? The
tobacco man, or the railway king, or the
Government contractor ? '

Don't talk Latin, G. P.,' said Bianca.

'And you are happy here  you and
Bianca?' Fitzgerald was saying to Hero. 'I
can understand that, if you think the waters
are doing my aunt good. That is everything.
Shall you stay much longer ? Only you must
not forget old England. We are not so black
as we are painted ; and  and  but what nonsense
for me to give you advice ; of course
you know best what is most suitable, and the
rest. I'm sure you will forgive me if I say
that my aunt ought not to be allowed to think
of the expense  certainly not to dwell upon it.
Anxiety and worry are incompatible with a
successful cure.'

Ah ! '

That we must all discourage even at the
risk of seeming unsympathetic. How could the



money be better spent? My uncle has been
telling us there is an immense rise in the shares
of the "Ararat Ark Company." I dare say you
know all about it. Take advantage of the
seven fat years after the seven lean, and persuade
your mother against her scruples.'

Oh ! I am so glad,' Hero answered ; ' one
never knows ; papa is so sanguine ; and mamma
feels things much more than people m health
can understand. She cannot bear to spend
anything on herself; she is so unselfish. And
I  you know, I, Bianca  that is '

My dear cousin, my dear Hero, you and
your mother '

Yes, yes ; I know. But your friend has
gone. Will you come in P '

No ; I think not  not to-night. Perhaps
my uncle will walk a little way down the hill
with me.'

'Here is the money,' Fitzgerald said half
an hour later, as the two men were about to
depart, ' don't let her lack for anything. I
told Hero that the Ararat Company was a " big "
thing, so don't betray me. But I don't like my
aunt's look,' he added, in a more serious tone.
Not that I would alarm anyone unnecessarily ;
but strangers, outsiders see what our nearest

D 2

36 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

seldom do. If there is anything to spare, buy
Bianca some britons with it. Girls like gloves,
and ribands, and that sort of thing. Only ' 
and the young man hesitated visibly  ' let my
aunt have everything first. It is not much,
but I shan't have more at present  not fora
few months. After that perhaps '

A carriage will save the fatigue of walking
to the baths ; they say the fatigue neutralise
the good she might otherwise gain. And a little
really good wine  Steinberger Cabinet say. Of
coin-se, it's drinking gold, that we know ; a vin
de roi : but when a princely heart gives '

Fitzgerald had fled. There are things flesh
and blood can't endure.

Ah ! ' said Mr. Owen, complacently, ' good
boy that according to his lights. Of course
Madame must have some of the spoils, but 
well, I shall be able to take up the shares
allotted to me in the " Desert Fisheries Association,"
and to pay the call on the " Cabbage
Candles Company," Limited, and leave enough
for an excursion or two for the girls, and the
shawl that little minx in the ballet set her
heart upon.'

The stars were twinkling in the heavens ashe
opened the garden gate, and went up towards

'ET TU, BRUTE r yj

the house with a conscience at peace with himself
and all the world.

Give us a song, Hero,' he said, in his pleasant
mood.

His wife was on the sofa ; her luminous
grey eyes turned full upon the face of her
daughter as she sang. Bianca was playing in
the balcony with some Eussian children, whose
parents shared their villa with the Owens.

Fitzgerald, glad to be alone, a little lifted
out of himself, a little excited, his heart beating
a little faster than usual, he knew not why,
paced to and fro beneath the colonnade, listening
to the murmurs of the fountain of the portico.

38 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Chapter III.

MOTHER AND Daughter.

If ever a woman might have been excused,
my poor child, you were that woman.'

If, mother ? Yes  if. But what woman
ever was excused? What woman ever will
be?'

God forgive me ! It is not for your mother
to loosen the landmarks. The world is bitterly
cruel.'

'Ah ! and there is so much behind one, so
much lived through and lived down, that one
would be thankful to forget, mother. If one
pulls out so much as one little brick, down
tumbles the whole building, and the work has
to be begun all over again. It seems as if one
could not summon up courage ; that the task is
so difficult one must fold one's hands, and let
things drift. And yet, that is impossible. I
don't know. Mamma mia how we came to

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 39

speak of such things. It is a profitless discussion.
It leads to nothing.'

But Leonie Owen was looking at her
daughter with a far-away gaze, that took no
note of Hero's words. Her pale face was disturbed
by some inner emotion, and yet she was
silent. Her expression had something of
inspiration, of that rapt and intense kind which
suffices of itself to the kindling soul, without
the aid of speech.

What is it, mother ? Is it anything-in me ?
Is it anything new ? '

It is everything in you, my child. How
can I look at you, at your past, at your future,
at even the palpable present, and not tremble ?
To think the time is not far distant when I
must leave you alone ; when I shall not be hereto
shield you, to help you, to sympathise with,
and to love you ! That, whatever your trouble,
you must bear it in silence, without me, your
other self, your older, stronger, harder self.
Ah ! the thought makes death so bitter, so cruel,
my love, that all my resignation flies, and I am
nothing but a rebel. And yet it is only our
poor vanity that makes us think we are indispensable
 necessary to the happiness of
others.'

40 A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

Mother, liusli ; pray don't ; you are so
much better ; you are nervous to-day, and so
you imagine these things. I cannot bear you
to talk like that ; I cannot bear it. You must
outlive me, for I  1 could woiYwQ without you.'

'No; there it is. This world has still
power to pain your sensitive soul, my child ;
sharp tongues can still agonise you, though
pride may hide the wounds. But for me, I
am old, I am case-hardened, I am tough. I
am good to break the shocks that only reach
you now through the mother's blunted feelings
or world-buffeted heart ; but Hero, if  if I
could only see you happy I should die happy.'

Mother, you must not talk of dying. It
means a Trappist future for me. You, who
know me, hnoiv all. I should have to tell
myself, to explain myself, my life, my past, to
anyone, to everyone else; and, as I could never
do that, I should be condemned to eat out my
heart in silence. A man's love is not like the
mother-love, large, unselfish. Though innocent
of blame my past would be an offence to a
jealous nature.'

Unless  alas ! alas Hero. I dare not speak.
Yet how can I be silent P ' and, stooping over
her daughter as she sat on a low stool at her

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 41

feet, the mother whispered, stroking the hands
and hair and face she loved, kissing the hips
and the forehead, ' to think that no lover has
once whispered to you as your old mother
does, that you are fair, that your eyes give
light, your lips happiness ; that your words are
music in his ears ; that no strong arm has ever
opposed its sheltering strength between you
and the world ; no pride in you, no joy in
your grace and sweetness, no true close
sympathy has ever made life beautiful and
joyous to you ; but that only I  only your
poor old mother  should breathe those loving
follies in your ears ; that you, so formed and
fitted to bestow and to receive happiness, to
spend joy and gladness, to love and be loved,
should have passed the best years of your life
in loneliness and sorrow ! '

If there were only thai to regret, mother.'

But it includes all the rest.'

Yet how few women are really happy ;
happy in the best and highest sense.'

Perhaps because very few women are
capable of inspiring or enjoying the best and
highest happiness.' To this Hero made no
reply, and the mother said no more.

It was not a mere material vegetating conti

AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

edition of well-being that she had desired, and
did earnestly desire, for her daughter. When
death beckoned Leonie de Courteville's young
lover away into the Silent Land, the bright
ambitious boy (he had but just won his
epaulettes) had obeyed the sign without a
murmur. His death had not been on the
battle-field, no laurels decked his coffin ; but,
with military obedience, he recognised the
orders of his Commanding Officer, and under
arrest for eternity, kept a brave front to the
foe. A lock of curly hair rested on the young
girl's heart, as she rose for the last time from
the bedside of her soldier-cousin ; but no one,
not even her mother, knew that the blossom
of love had been nipped in the bud, and that
hope lay dead on the young soldier's silent
breast. There had been no loud vehemence,
no violence of demonstration about her modest
maiden grief. There had been, necessarily,
more of tenderness than passion, more of affection
than of romance, in it ; but as one twin
will sicken and pine for want of its companion
creature, as one sister or brother will fade and
perish for the utter need it has of its sympathetic
sister or brother-soul, so Leonie's heart
was buried in the grave of him to whom, in

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 43

the eyes of all her relations, she had been as a
sister and as a sister only.

Yet she understood duty well enough to
know that it meant marriage for her when M.
de Courteville told her that an eccentric
Englishman, who required no portion, though
he was willing to make unlimited marriage-settlements
on his future wife, had requested
the honour of her hand.

In well-ordered French households, ' la
famille ' includes, as does the bare mention of
The State ' in German homes, both motive and
argument. There was the exemption of her
father from the usually inevitable ' dot ' to be
considered, and the advantages thereby accruing
to her brother to be weighed ; besides that little,
vague, irritating suspicion of stigma Which, in
French eyes, attaches to ' demoiselles ' who,
being past their ' first youth,' neither marry nor
go into a convent.

The poor dead boy should have no successor,
no rival. Women who shut themselves
up in opinionated griefs were selfish, Leonie
thought, and not unfrequently sacrificing in the
pursuit of a chimera the happiness of others
as well as their ovn. And thus Leonie gave
her hand without scruple or hesitation to Mr.

44 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Owen, knowing that she would be able todo
her duty none the worse because of the
memory of that far-away dead-antigone love
of her early girlhood  a love of which not
even to her mother had she ever breathed a
word, knowing it to be outside the realm of
sympathy as maidenhood is understood in the
French scheme of education.

But she had somewhat over-estimated her
strength. Full of fond enthusiasms and generous
beliefs in a high ideal, well-read, accomplished,
refined and cultured herself, it was
not the difference of race or tongue that .
jarred upon her in Owen ; it was the innate
vulgarity and commonplaceness of his character
that dispirited, discouraged and baffled
her. Her married life, spent in almost greater
seclusion than her maidenhood, brought with
it but the twilight of half-impressions, and
starved and narrowed in one direction concentrated
itself in the sublime unselfishness of
maternity. The one touch of passion native to
her character lay in her motherhood ; in those
mystic instincts of self-devotion which make
Christianity more especially the religion of
maternity. All that life had hitherto denied
her, all that she had once hoped for and

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 45

seemed for ever to have missed, all possibilities
of beauty, and joy, and happiness, she saw in
the little bud whose blossom it would he hers
to realise and rejoice in. When she felt her
babe's warm rosy feet trampling in satin
nakedness their initial path from her knees to
her shoulder, her heart beat beneath the
fluttering tentative footsteps as though they
were so many caresses, and came at last to live
only the life of the child. And so, as with the
baby and little toddling ghd, on into her young
maidenhood, until Hero, beautiful as a poet's
dream, ignorant and innocent still, yet full of
eager curiosity to know more nearly a world
which from a distance looked so fair, was called
upon, a not unwilling, and yet profoundly
will-less, sacrifice to pay a father's debt.

It came so suddenly, it was accomplished
so peremptorily, that, in after times, it seemed
to the frantic mother she must have been fatally
spell-bound to allow things to take their fatal
course, as she had done, in mute, hopeless
despair. Why had she let this Iphigenia be
led smiling to the altar, decked in dazzling
sacrificial garments, gazing open-eyed in innocent
anticipation and wonder at the festive
preparations that showed her the Shrine as

46 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

anything rather than the Place of Atonement ?
Why had she, the mother, not flung herself in
protestation between her child and destruction,
shaken off the petty bonds of use and custom,
of form and conventionality, and appealed to
men and fathers by their strength, to women
and mothers by their tenderness, to form
round the sacred virgin, and in the name of
humanity wrest maiden innocence and ignorance
from the profanation of a stranger's
touch ? Why had she not invoked wrath on
this unholy compact, calling men to witness to
its ruthless iniquity? Why had she not cast
herself prostrate between the porch and the
altar, and dared the glittering procession to
advance across her's, the mother's, prone body,
before she let her one ewe-lamb, her darling,
be taken from her ?

But none of these things had happened.

On the contrary. Trippingly, as though
the course of love proverbially ran smooth,
the preparations went their jaunty way. A
daily white bouquet for the girl-bride, who
took it, smiling at her new importance ; a
daily drive with the handsome Italian bridegroom
in a hired carriage ; the complacent
father playing propriety, whilst Hero prattled

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 47

and rattled like a school-girl on a half-holiday ;
nightly communing and reckonings, contriving
and speculating, and strange talk of capital
and interest, of percentages, premiums and
discounts, and stock and scrip and shares, and
companies between the two men ; a release
from all responsibility as regarded Mr. Owen's
part in straightening the 'Pisan Tower,' and
carrying out the ' Campagna Sheepfold Company,'
culminating in the clash and clang of
the wedding-bells of Hero's marriag-e-morninCT.

There had been nothing tragic about it.
Nothing palpably tragic, that is. Modern life
is intolerant of tragedy, and, to take its outside
estimate, 'cakes and ale and ginger hot i' the
mouth,' are more to the general taste than the
bowl and the dagger. And thus at times it
almost seemed to Leonie that she had been
mad in thinking to avert the climax by such
wild means as, in her extremity, she had
mentally invoked ; whilst, mixing strongly with
her love for the child, there grew a sense of
responsibility and remorse, as of injury done
and expiation to be made.

A presentiment had warned her of the
misery to come, and yet she had disregarded
the monition, and had supinely let things

48 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

take their course, consenting tacitly to the'
sacrifice which she had not the power to prevent.


Mother ! ' cried Bianca, coming into the
room where Leonie and Hero sat silent, both
occupied with thoughts of the past, ' the
Kerezofis have offered to drive me to the
Duke's hunting-lodge, and they want you to
come too. Fitz and his friend, Mr. Hudson,
and G. P. are to go in one carriage, so there is
a place vacant in their droschky for you ; the
KerezofF children and the governess started, on
donkeys, hours ago, and I am going in their
waggonette nth the Baron and Baroness, and
two or three Prussian officers.'

Did you know of the arrangement ? '
Leonie asked, looking at her daughter.

She was not like most grandmothers, doting
and weak to the younger generation. On the
contrary, she watched Bianca jealously, and
was not always pleased with what she saw.

I heard them, talking of it last night,'
Hero answered.

If the Kerezoffs did not ask her to drive
with them, she could scarcely thrust herself
into their waggonette. On the other hand,
they had asked her daughter, and it seemed

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 49

that, with the gentlemen invited, the vehicle
would be full.

You can come with me in the second
carriage,' she said, looking at Bianca instead of
at her mother.

'Oh, no, mamma. The Kerezoffs asked
me last week, and, if I went in your carriage,
we should have to turn one of our gentlemen
out. It could not be G. P., because he, simply,
would not go. As it is Fitz's carriage, I suppose
we can scarcely propose to put him on his
own box like a footman. Then that Oxford
friend of his is a stranger, so wx could not indecency
expel him for the sake of the family
party inside.'

I think it a great impertinence on the part
of Baroness Kerezoff,' said Mrs. Owen, in a
vexed tone. ' She knows perfectly well that
a girl of your age ought not to be separated
from her own family.'

Bianca's fearless assertion of equality was a
permanent astonishment to her grandmother.

'The separation by the length of a waggonette
is not exactly tragic,' Bianca said, still
smiling and willing to be amiable if they would
let her.

And your mother was the person to be

VOL. I. E

50 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

asked,' her grandmother broke in. ' You could
have followed with your grandpa, if it was
necessary you should go and there was no room
for both you and your mother in the Kerezoflfs
waggonette.'

We are not obliged to go at all,' Hero said,
experimentally. ' After all it's quite an informal
affair ; or '  trying to throw oil on the
troubled waters  ' the Baroness would have
treated me with more ceremony.'

What are you talking about ? ' cried Mr.
Owen, bustling in, very red in the face, very
important, and putting a new hat and gloves
down on the table. ' I can't have you disoblige
the Kerezoffs. KerezofF, as I have told you, was
formerly employed by the Eussian Government
as an inspector of mines. He knows all about
the green copper mines that we are going to
bring out in London as a company, if only
things go straight  the celebrated Immensikoff
and Zaratoff mines. Just as if all this woman's
stuff about precedence, chaperons, and that
sort of humbug could be allowed to stand in
the way of common sense and business. Let
me " float " my mines, and you can quarrel as
much as you please afterwards.'

Common sense certainly points to a mother

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 51

keeping watch over her own daughter,' said
Mrs. Owen, severely.

Her words, as she felt, were not well chosen,
and Mr. Owen jumped at the mistake. He
had a theory that all women were by nature
jealous, and he had no mind that grand-maternal
weaknesses should influence the fate of Zaratoff
copper.

Jealousy, eh . ' he cried, ' stuff and nonsense
! Well, it's no news that the poet made a
mistake ; poets do, occasionally. Jealousy, thy
name is woman ! '

'Indeed, I am not jealous,' Hero said
quietly, taking the accusation to herself ; ' but,'
stretching out her soft white hand and laying
it on Bianca's brovn fingers, ' I do not like my
Httle daughter to be running about without her
mother.'

But you are going too, Mamma mia ! '

To drive behind the Kerezoff waggonette
and swallow all their dust. You are very
kind, Bianca,' interposed her grandmother.
No ! I protest against that. If your mother
goes she must start first, otherwise it will be
unendurable. I wonder at yoiu- proposing
such a thing, with the thermometer at 87 in
E 2

Library \

52 A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

the shade, and the dust of accumulated ages on
these German roads.'

Mamma's cosmopolitan soul is above water-carts,'
said Bianca, defiantly.

To start before my little girl would look
like abandoning her indeed,' said Hero.

The discussion named and wearied her, she
could scarcely have said why.

Stuff. One would imagine to hear you
talk that you were going across the Atlantic
without her,' interjected Mr. Owen. ' What a
devil of a fuss women do make about nothing.'

'It is not "nothing" to us, we being women,'
his daughter answered, in a low voice, her
spiritless manner effectually hiding the epigram.


And, for the matter of that, Hero, it
seems like affectation your insisting so much
on your maternal duties ; for, to speak plainly,
you require a chaperon quite as much as  if I
were not afraid of giving offence, I should say
a great deal more than  Bianca. Bianca is a
child ' (the young lady made a grimace), ' you
are a young woman, looking even younger
than you are. It is of very little consequence
what a girl in the schoolroom does. In fact,
Bianca ought to have gone on a donkey with

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 53

the little Kerezoffs and their governess. As
she hasn't, I beg you won't offend these people
by refusing to carry out the programme. We
three men shall bore each other to death in
rit's droschky, and I hope you will get ready
and go with a good grace ; so let there be no
more about it ; ' and, taking no notice of
Bianca's pouts, Mr. Owen closed the discussion
by leaving the room.

Fitz's honest face looked a little blank, or
so Hero fancied, as, ten minutes later, Bianca
nodded to him from the balcony upon which
the Kerezoff apartments opened, and announced
that she should warn her friends not to start
for another half-hour, as she particularly
dished swallowing dust.

Bianca does not come with us ? ' he asked,
looking at Hero.

'No. It appears this is an old engagement
with the Kerezoffs, which I had not understood.
I am sorry, but papa thought it would not do
to make a fuss, and alter the original arrangements.
I did not understand them, it seems, or
I should certainly have refused for her.'

Bianca, who was on the balcony, could not
hear what they were saying in the carriage, or
she would not have nodded at them quite so

54 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

amicably. 'You look very comfortable,' she
cried ; ' I almost wish I were with you.'
Having got her own way she could afford to be
gracious.

I will go on the box ! ' (from Fitz eagerly).

'No, no! And take care, G. P., that
mamma does not flirt too much, or I shall be
jealous.'

Foolish child,' said Hero, mildly flattered.

Drive on,' cried Mr. Owen to the coachman,
in his best German ; and so the dejected
party jolted off, finally dismissed by Bianca
from her balcony, until the two hopeless screws
and the dilapidated droschky disappeared into
the dust and sunshine of the summer's afternoon.




Chapter IV.

THE duke's Hunting-SCHLOSS.

It was scarcely a congruous party ; the elements
of coherence being chiefly conspicuous
by their absence.

Hudson, awed by the beauty of the silent
lady opposite to him, perplexed, after the
manner of Britons, as to the correct style of
addressing a person afflicted with a foreign title,
impressed (as perhaps only an undergraduate
can be impressed) with the greatness and glory
and grandeur of the youthful don by his side,
and feeling, for certain reasons, on uncertain
ground with Mr. Owen, was, for him, exceptionally
taciturn.

An unmistakable cloud lay on Fitzgerald's
generally serene brow, and Hero, after saying
a word or two as civility demanded, fell back
in the carriage, and continued to gaze blankly
out into the afternoon world from beneath the
becoming shadow of a pink-lined parasol.

56 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

No, but a charming chintz and Brussels
lace,' etc. etc., quoted Fitz, with cynical ill-humour,
to himself.

Hero was, evidently, ill at ease ; whether
in mind or body, he could not tell, but not
too ill at ease, not too unhappy to ignore the
value of a pink-lined parasol. The next moment
he seemed to himself a mean, ill-natured,
and contemptible fellow ; an unmanly, vulgar-minded
affector of cheap cynicism. Fortunately
for him the sneer had not become vocal (not
that he thought any the better of himself for
that), but he hated himself for having so much
as brushed Hero's spotless raiment with his
ill-humour. His manner became, generally,
more genial, and there was something almost
apologetic in his tone to Hero. An injury
done to an unsuspicious and unsuspecting person
seems, to the doer, a double injury.

The road led by a gradual ascent through
an avenue of Spanish chestnuts which presently
became a dense forest. Here and there a
ranger wished them good-day ; now and again
a woodcutter, driving a donkey that looked
liked a perambulations faggot-stack, crossed
their path, and, with a rough and ready greeting,
disappeared down a sunlit glade. A fresh

THE DUKE'S Hunting-SCHLOSS. 57

breeze was rippling the surface of the young
wood ; the shining; leaves seemed to be babbling
and prattling in their joy that the winter
was over and past, and the song of the turtle
heard once more in the land. The driver asked
if the Herrschaften would get out and walk,
explaining that the footpath was nearer, easier,
and pleasant. Mr. Owen, scenting an attempt
to evade the bargain, and crediting their clumsy
Jehu with a desire to impose and cheat the
unwary Briton, felt indisposed to move. The
younger men were glad to stretch their long
limbs, cramped with the exiguity of a conveyance
which not even the maddest cultus for
courtesy-titles could classify as the conventional
carriage.'

Hero, folding up the frivolous sunshade,
descended with alacrity.

The earth beneath their feet appeared to
give way ; they did not really touch the ground,
but trod upon the dried leaves of immemorial
autumns, elastic and springy, with a fine woodland
odour, familiar (and dear) to all pedestrian
lovers of sylvan scenery. The chequered shade
lay in bright moving patches, fielding the
ground nth intermingled sunlight and shadow,
like little tricksy translated cloudlets chasing

58 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

each other over the ground in frolicsome pursuit.
Against the clear brie sky, the fresh
young leaves of this season fluttered joyously
in the light mountain breezes. Hero, walking
bareheaded through the upland forest, in her
simple white dress, attended by a knight and a
squire of goodly thews and sinews, suggested
Una with far more justice than the pink-lined
parasol had recalled Narcissus ; and something
of the contrition he felt for having wronged
her, though only by a passing thought, made
itself apparent in the inflection of Fitz's voice.

More than once Hudson glanced shrewdly
at his friend, looking instantly, as one always
does in a wood, straight ahead again. It was the
manner not the matter that was suggestive.
Hudson was exceptionally boyish of his age,
but he had his intuitions.

Within a quarter of a mile of the hunting-schloss
they came upon the Kerezoff children ;
governess, and donkeys, equally dead beat.

We will go with you,' they shouted to
Hero, glad, after the manner of their kind, of
any diversion that promised to enlarge their
boundaries, and carry them beyond the irksomeness
of supervision. The denizens of a
despotically governed land, they were as much

THE DUKE'S HUNTING-SCHLOSS. 59

the modern child as the smartest New York
juvenile.

Not if we know it,' answered Fitzgerald,
looking behind, as he had already done once or
twice on the upward journey. ' See ! here is
Mr. Owen, seated in state hi an empty carriage.
You might join him ; or, better still, there is
the waggonette ! '

Shouts of joy hailed the announcement.
The waggonette meant ladies and gentlemen
to take the young rebels' part against mild
Mademoiselle. Mamma would be too busy to
scold them ; obviously the waggonette was the
Car of Liberty of their desires.

Young ruffians ! ' laughed Fitz, as they
surged up a mossy bank, ready to spring out,
frighten the horses, and inaugurate endless
disaster. ' What do you say ? Shall we wait
for  the others ? '

For Bianca ? Yes ! ' said her mother, with
a little air of mixed anxiety and displeasure.

The Baroness Kerezoff, a small, slight,
sallow woman, with high cheek-bones and grey
obliquely-set eyes, by turns voluble and
gracious, impertinent or obliging, was the
first to descend. A certain veneer, or more
accurately speaking, French polish, did not, at

6o AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

an emergency, altogether suffice to hide the
natural grain of the material. Scratch the
smooth shining surface of Eussian savoir faire
and although you might not find the proverbial
Tartar, you would certainly find something lessor
other than you looked for. To speculate as
to what that ' Something,' good or evil, better
or worse, might be, were an utter loss of
time.

I, who was so good to that ungrateful
wretch, my dear,' she one day said, complaining
to Hero of an unfaithful friend ; ' there was
nothing I did not do, and would not have done
for her. I even lent her my false hair ! '

A little shudder thrilled through her
hearer. And yet the woman must be essentially
frank, and free from guile, to make such
a statement. Only, it would have been so
much pleasant had there been no necessity
either for the false hair or the free confidence.

The Baroness KerezofF was always exquisitely
and appropriately,if somewhat lavishly,
dressed. l!s'o one ever saw her in last season's
fashions ; and if, to the uninitiated, her toilettes
appeared simple, the better instructed knew
that costly simplicity is just by so much the
more extravagant as serpentine is dearer than

THE DUKES HUNTING-SCHLOSS. 6i

marbled paper, or malachite than colonised
glass.

On this occasion she wore an Indian cachemire
feuille-morte dress, richly embroidered in
silk of a darker shade, a brown hat trimmed with
leaves of every shade of autumnal tint, brown
Swedish gloves reaching to the elbow, bewitching
little brown shoes and silk stockings with
faint pink clocks, a brown parasol embroidered
like her dress, and lined with faint pink to
match the clocks discreetly revealed by her
rapid descent from the waggonette. A magnificent
silver belt in old Eussian repousse work
clasped her dainty waist, earrings and studs to
match, whilst the natural gnarled stick of her
parasol bore her monogram in silver, and a
superb brown fan, mounted to correspond,
dangled with half a hundred costly trifles from
lier waist.

In the country on her estates, or visiting
amongst her intimates, Madame de Kerezoff
was frankly sallow. In society, dressed for a
ball, she was as delicately tinted as Gibson's
Venus.

Ah ! here you are, dear madame ! ' she
cried in irreproachable French, devoid of all
accent, caressing and courteous, yet markedly

62 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

devoid of familiarity. ' You were wise to
choose the carriage ! ' (Hero smiled.) ' To go
sideways, like a crab, staring at your opposite
neighbour all the way, is, I assure you, a strain,
but a strain on the nervous system that takes
years off one's life. I feel like that French
queen who turned grey in a night, only I shall
have distanced her, doing it in one afternoon ;
not in the solitude of my cell, but on a party of
pleasure, in the open air ; ' and thus, chattering
gaily the irresponsible nonsense that came
uppermost, she put one foot on the step and
one tiny gloved hand on the shoulder of the
cavaliers servant who stood at the door of the
waggonette, and fluttering down to earth, said
almost without a pause, looking at Hero's companions
: ' Kindly present your friends to me,
dear madame.'

I do not know how it is,' she said, speaking
French very rapidly as Fitzgerald and Hudson
made each his respective and very English
bow, and then stepped modestly into the background,
'but to me it always, ridiculously
enough, seems as though English people were
related to one another. I have not that feeling
with Continentals, not even with Americans,
but with the English invariably.'

THE DUKE'S HUNTING-SCHLOSS, 63

You are not altogether wrong this time,'
Hero said.

'Ah! you are hicks to have two beaux
cousins'

Something in the tone rather than the
words made Hero bhish and then disclaim.
'Indeed, you do me too much honour,' she
said. 'Mr. Hudson is only an acquaintance,
and Mr. Fitzgerald, if a cousin, imperii a la mode
de Bretagne ! '

'You must not disown me in a strange
land ! ' cried Fitz, with an effort to be agreeably
playful.

But Hero had no repartee ready ; her eyes
were fixed on the waggonette, where Bianca,
chattering gaily with a Prussian lieutenant, was
indulgently smiled upon by Baron Kerezoff.

Come, Bianca,' said her mother ; ' we are
all waiting for you.'

Et moi Madame f '

It is true ! I had forgotten you,' laughed
Madame de Kerezoff. ' Let me introduce Baron
Merlin.'

Hero bowed gravely to the taciturn personage
thus presented to her. Bianca was still
in the waggonette. Fitzgerald and Hudson
stood a little in the background, waiting. They

64 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

felt themselves to be very unimportant and
somewhat extraneous to this polyglot party.

Shall we walk ? ' asked Madame de Kere-
off, addressing no one in particular, but suiting
the action to the word, as she moved in the
direction of the Schloss. But Hero hesitated.

One moment,' she said ; ' I have a shawl
for Bianca ; do not let me detain you,' and
raising her voice slightly she called, this time
with a note of impatience in her accent, ' Are
you coming, Bianca ? *

Directly, mamma ; I am teaching Lieutenant
von Hasten an English riddle,' and both Baron
Kerezoff and the young Prussian seemed highly
flattered and amused by Bianca's efforts at
instruction.

It was not amusing for the rest of the party.

Hero felt that for a group of English
people, invited guests, to horde together talking
to one another in their own language, whilst
they left host and hostess to the conversation
of their own compatriots, was, to say the least,
in the worst possible taste.

Yet a vague sense of uneasiness troubled
her, and determined her for once to sacrifice
good breeding to her maternal instincts. Something
in Fitzgerald's face and manner told her

THE DUKE'S HUNTING-SCHLOSS. 65

that he, too, was dissatisfied  he, to whom the
critical mood was not natural.

They are so intensely domestic, these
English,' said Madame de Kerezoff, handing
Mellin her sunshade to carry, and nodding
her head in Hero's direction ; ' to me, the
bourgeois manners of the present day are simply
detestable ; and the worst of it is they are becoming
fashionable, since royalty has elected
to act the nursemaid.' Bonne d enfant were
Madame de Kerezoff 's words.

We can scarcely complain of our Imperial
family in that respect.'

'I do not know. What can be more
bourgeois than this left-handed marriage of the
Emperor's . '

Marriage ? '

Yes, marriage. The Empress is a saint of
twenty years' standing ; as much dead as if she
had been canonised for centuries. She smiles
on the arrangement because by this means the
Emperor is kept faithful to the mother of his
young family, and she prays for him and her
and them, night and day. Where it is a
question of the choice of evils, a bigamous
marriage is better than an Eastern harem.'

Admirable woman ! '

VOL. I. F

66 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

'Is it me or the Empress that you are
apostrophising? But, jesting apart, that is as
one takes it. Then look at the Czarewitch and
his uxorious folly.'

Perhaps not so bad as it's painted.'

They tell me that in England fashionable
women cram half a dozen children into their
Victorias, in servile imitation of the citizen
manners that prevail at Court ; and this Englishwoman
makes herself utterly ridiculous with
her great, overgrown daughter. She ought to
put her into pinafores and send her to school,
or at any rate treat her like the child she is.'

A very charming child.'

A la bonne heure ; only I am very glad
she is not mine.'

Mr. Owen, tired of solitude, had seized upon
Baron KerezofF ; Fitzgerald, waiting to see if he
could be of use, suddenly found himself taken
possession of by Lieutenant von Hasten, who
being a young man of acquisitive turn, was
questioning him upon the English army, navy,
militia, and marines, laboriously and conscientiously
improving the occasion by airing his
English, and trying at the same time to profit
by the linguistic lesson which his victim was
quite aware that he was giving. Indeed,

THE DUKE'S HUNTING-SCHLOSS. 67

Fitzgerald's humour, though, for the moment,
grim, was tickled by the practical young man's
undisguised and eager attention.

Bianca,' said her mother, drawing the girl's
arm within her own, ' I wish you would show
a little kindness to Mr. Hudson. He is here a
stranger amongst strangers ; and it is dull for
him, not understanding either French or German
well.'

The anxious mother thought, in her simple
artfulness, that her girl could not have a better
watch-dog than the honest, blunt, young
Englishman, to whom (she instinctively felt)
every girl was, as yet, as sacred as his own
sisters. As a matter of fact, Hudson had no
sisters, being that risky product, an only child.

Why is he so stupid ? '

I do not think he is stupid ; only, perhaps,
a little shy. But, as he is Fitz's friend, we
ought to be kind to, and pleasant with, him.'

That is Fitz's own business. But come on,
mamma, they will think you are scolding me,
and we are ever so far behind the others.'

It was true ; and Hero felt that her child's
worldly wisdom was in excess of her own,
and the moment practically impropitious for
further parental admonition.

68 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Will you give me your arm ? ' she said
kindly to Hudson, seeking to draw him into
conversation, and to open the way for friendly
intercourse. The young fellow blushed crimson
with delight, and as he felt Hero's hand
upon his arm it seemed to him that the light
touch of this sweet and gracious woman conveyed
a sense of honour, dignity, and self-respect.
Unconsciously he drew himself up,
threw his head back, and walked proudly
forwards. He felt as though he could do battle
with all the world for her sake; and, if his
thoughts of Bianca were as sacred as his
thoughts of this sister could have been, the
divinity of womanhood conveyed by Hero's
touch, set the sign and seal of manhood upon
the boy's fresh heart ; all unwittingly Hero
had given him his accolade, and henceforth the
young knight was consecrated to ladies' service.
Her intuition had told her that upon an emergency
he would be a useful and trusty ally.
Although she did not know it he would now,
at a word or look from her, mount guard on
Bianca, nor budge an inch before the world.

With that delicacy which seems a distinctive
attribute of the finer feminine nature. Hero
felt that she could tacitly enlist the ardent

THE DUKES HUNTING-SCHLOSS. 69

youth in her service where she could not, in so
many words, invoke the aid of a grown man.

Fitzgerald was their cousin, and therefore,
in some sense, a brother to Hero ; but Fitzgerald
had already looked with critical if not
condemnatory eyes at Bianca. He had worn
an expression of dissatisfaction throughout the
afternoon, and Hero shrank from exposing her
child's thoughtlessness to unnecessarily severe
stricture. Where Hudson in his young ingenuousness
would see nothing and suspectless,
Fitzgerald, in his older, worldly wisdom,
might discover coquetry, a spirit of intrigue, a
feminine frivolity, and a lightness upon the
weights, in comparison with which even vanity
itself seemed a solid attribute. The jealousies
of mature manhood are often less personal
jealousies than the jealousy of the unsullied
fame of their womankind. Hero felt that even
the suspicion of a light word spoken of herself
or Bianca, would burn like fire into Fitzgerald's
soul, setting his cheeks aflame like the brand of
dishonour ; and this knowledge stirred her heart
uneasily beneath the assumed carelessness of
her manner.

Men who know men as they really are, not
as they seem to be to women, must inevitably

70 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

be sensitive on certain points. License of expression,
to which they have hitherto tacitly-objected
on the ground of bad taste only, assumes
a very different aspect so soon as they
divine a possibility of the same coarse criticisms
which they have heard freely applied to other
men's sisters and wives being applied to their
own personal belongings. The risk of making
himself ridiculous, by the exhibition of fastidious
taste or untimely ' prudishness,' keeps many a
man silent, whose better nature is revolted by
the idle talk of what the Apostle aptly calls
lewd fellows of the baser sort.'

The whole party had been over the Schloss,
wondered at the buckhorn furniture and green
velvet upholstery, admired the chandeliers of
huge antlers and the spreading horns of many
a noble buck decorating the walls, beneath
each Geweih a little ivory or buckhorn plaque,
telling what royal or imperial hand had brought
down the monarch of the forest herd.

They had been out into the thicket and
hidden themselves in a leafy arbour, whilst the
head-keeper, blowing a most cruelly discordant
blast on an old tin-trumpet, had assembled the
wild boars of the district for their inspection.
The grotesque instrument, the lean figure of

THE DUKE'S HUNTING-SCHLOSS. 71

the swineherd, the odd appearance of the
animals of all ages and sizes that came trooping
out of the converging forest glades, gave a
strange unfamiliar aspect to the scene.

'It is like a page of Don Quixote or
Rabelais,' whispered Hero to Fitzgerald.

Fst ! ' grumbled, in parenthesis, the Teutonic
trumpeter. ' The Herrschaft must be
quiet ; the swine are very empjindlich'

The idea of ' sensitive swine ' did not aid
Hero's efforts at gravity, but the severe tone of
the local guardian made the rebuke significant.

Father of the gospel,' Fitzgerald irreverently
replied. ' I know many people who
might be brought up here with advantage,
if only the age of miracles were not past '

If the Herrschaften really wish,' began the
guttural voice of the sour-visaged Schweine-hirt
demonstratively.

There was silence.

The solemn dictionary disappeared into a
rustic hut on the border of the large circular
open space which had been cleared in the
thicket, and, presently returning with some
compound dear to the palate of porcine
epicurism, he was immediately surrounded by
the multitude of brindled beasts that the traveled

AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

hers had come out to see. The patriarch of the
tribe was presently pointed out and easily
recognised in a huge formidable tusked monster ;
'On his bow-back a battle set Of bristly pikes,'
his small malicious red eyes, ' His brawny sides,
with hairy bristles set, His short thick neck not
easy harmed,' and with a ' snout that digs sepulchres,'
he looked as like the famous boar that
slew the fair Adonis as Will Shakspere himself
could have imagined.

What a treat for Briton Vivere ! ' whispered
Fitzgerald, pointing to a trough where
animals of all sizes were pushing, grunting,
snuffling, and tramping in their eagerness to
get their snouts well into its appetising-contents.


Yes ; I suppose it is the fashion of the day
to see humour in such things,' said Hero, a
little disgusted by the unsavoury sights and
sounds. ' I have seen enough. It is cm-ious
and  unedifying. No, do not follow me ; '
and she walked gently but swiftly away from
the leafy screen, across a piece of broken
ground, into the courtyard of the castle, glad
to be alone.

As the horses had to be found and put to,
and the drivers were somewhere in the woods.

THE DUKES HUNTING-SCHLOSS. 73

she would have half an hour's grace. Passing
beneath a small archway, Hero found herself
in a green quadrangle, with a low wall on the
southern side. Leaning upon the parapet she
gazed out into the golden evening sunset.

The distant horizon was bounded by purple
mountains. The vast plain intersected by the
winding river lay spread out in marvellous
variety at her feet. Towns and cities, towers
and spires were reflected in the transparent
flood. Great battle-fields, dyed in historic
pages with the dark red of slaughtered armies,
now lay buried beneath those blooming gardens,
teeming vineyards and broad sheets of yellow
corn. Mile rolled upon mile in undulating
forest waves ; vast herds of deer, plainly
visible, led by stately antlered chieftains
through the slanting rays to take their wonted
evening refreshment, crossed the green open
spaces and disappeared into the forest glades
again, on their way to the famed and fabled
waters that washed the base of many a ruined
rocky summit.

Hero's heart was full. Full of the bitterness
of the unforgotten past, of cruel memories,
of carling cares and dumb, baffled anxieties
that could find no outlet in the present, nor

74 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

hope for any in the future. She was glad to
have escaped for the moment, thankful to be
alone, away from the heedless chatterers,
apart and silent. Yet, as she leaned and gazed
across into the vastness of the evening, she felt
the infinite littleness of all petty personal cares
and sorrows, the nothingness of the individual
life with its hopes and fears, its faithlessness
and forgetfulness, its struggle and its protest.
So careless of the single life, so careful of the
type.' Hushed into quiescence and acquiescence
by the immensity, the solemnity, the
silence of Nature ; awed by the eternal mystery
and burthen of Humanity ; submissive before
the Sphinx-ike calm of the inscrutable, immemorially
cruel mother. Hero, in her self-forgetfulness,
had any eye been there to note
the change, must have seemed greater and
other than the conventional woman we have
seen with a pink-lined parasol.

" Oh that I had wings, had wings like a
dove ; then would I flee away and be at rest ! " '

The words, breathed rather than spoken,
seemed themselves winged ; it was as though
they carried the aspiration of the soul out into
the sunset skies, as angels are pictured bearing
the spirits of departed saints through the

THE DUKES HUNTING-SCHLOSS. 7S

midnight land towards a triumphant dawn on
heavenly shores.

As she stood there, lost in contemplation,
her soul seemed to go before her, to rise and
expand, to soar forth into the Unknown, to
float across the waving summits of the trees,
now crowned with the red gold of evening,
across the castled crags, over towns and
villages and cottage gardens, over fields and
vineyards, across the rolling flood, across
the plains and battle-fields, on and yet on, past
tower, and spire, and palace, and prison, past
human voices and tears, crimes and griefs, and
sins, and shames; beyond sickness, want and
death ; wrong, oppression, and violence ; beyond
the distant purple mountains into the
infinite Unknown  into Space.

You will take cold, the Baroness says ;
she sends you a shawl.'

Poor Hero ! In a moment, in a second of
time, she was brought back again from her
excursion into the Empyrean.

Conventionality is stronger, at its weakest,
than our wildest flights of fancy. The tyranny
of the commonplace finds few rebels, and ' convenience
' enjoys a catholic cactus.

Even a coxcomb must, under the circum

AUT C.SAR AUT NIHIL.

stances, have felt his mission to be unfortunate
and Baron, or as he preferred to be called
Monsieur de Mellin, was no coxcomb.

Something of the transcendental, some faint
glimmering, as of a reflected glory, still lingered
on Hero's brow, as, brought summarily to earth
again, she turned with a smile to thank the
courteous shawl-bearing stranger who had involuntarily,
but none the less inopportunely,
interrupted her reverie.

The very language that he spoke jarred
upon her. Eussian would have been more in
harmony with her mood, as something, to hers
mystic and unknown like the Eternal Secret.
German would have suited that land of primeval
forests, wild boars and castled crags, where
the spirit of mediasvalism still lingered long
after date. But French ! French, the firkin
dancing-master tongue of the boulevards, the
flippant medium of folly and frivolity! And
then, too, that tacit confession of a subordinate
role amongst the nations, implied in men whO'
forget their mother tongue, and speak a foreign
language habitually and of preference.

Thank you,' Hero said quietly, taking the
shawl. Then, after a pause : ' You do not
speak English ? '

THE DUKE'S HUNTING-SCHLOSS-jj

So little that I dare not say I speak. It
requires courage to speak the language of
Shakspere.'

That is faithfully . spoken, that is true,
Hero answered, feeling suddenly pleased, and
looking up at the speaker with frank shining
eyes.

(' The eyes of a goddess,' as he explained
afterwards, ' so grave, and calm, and star-like')

Like all Eussians, Monsieur de Mellin
had about him a vague touch of melancholy.
He had also a touch of shabbiness or more
than a touch. Not the shabbiness of ' genteel '
poverty as we know it, but rather the shabbiness
which comes easily to a man whose
official livery is donned all the year round, and
whose one suit of mufti, worn carefully, or
carelessly, during his month's holiday at foreign
watering-places, lasts him ten or fifteen years,
and is then, in its owner's eyes, still a presentable
combination of garments ; the shabbiness
of a man who has no one to please, no one
to tell him that his black silk neckerchief is
frayed and rusty ; that a clothes-brush is a
useful implement; that patent leather shoes
are gallant attentions to the ladies whose
drawing-room carpets he profanes by the dust

78 A UT CSAR A UT NIHIL.

lie has forgotten to shake off his clumsy boots
the pathetic shabbiness of a man who is
alone in the world.

As he stood by her side looking out across
the landscape, Hero felt it would be difficult to
make or keep up conversation with a person
who had to avail himself of a language foreign
to both in order to be intelligible ; of whose
antecedents she knew nothing, and whose
appearance and manner were necessarily and
absolutely negative.

It was therefore rather in soliloquy, as
pursuing the thoughts he had interrupted, that
as she turned to look once more at the vast
panorama spread out before them she said : ' It
is so strange to think that yonder in those cities,
villages, hamlets, homesteads, human hopes and
fears, joys and sorrows, loves and losses are
going on ; that the struggle, and the fight, and
the triumph and the loss are all realities  now
as we speak, here alone, as if we only were
in the world ; whereas, down there '

Ah ! ' said the Eussian, his large, pale
blue eyes suddenly catching and concentrating
a fiery spark from the rays of the setting
sun. ' Ah, down there ! Dear lady, we know
little of what o'oes on " down there ! " And it

THE DUKE'S HUNTING-SCHLOSS. 79

is we who are ignorant, we who are dull,
blind, stupid, cruel. From our heights we
overlook those " down there ; " they are ants,
grubs, worms, moths. Who troubles himself
with a microscope to search out the ways of
vermin, or follow the vain flight and blind fate
of the ephemera ? Can we alter the decrees
of Fate ? Can we " bind the influences of
Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion ? " Can
we " draw out Leviathan with a hook ? "
Down there I " So far off, so low down, so
small, dark, and insignificant. Such swarming
millions ; mere moths dancing in the sunbeams
; mere fluttering futilities ! " Down
there ! " '

His manner was so strangely unconventional
that Hero turned involuntarily from the
landscape to look at him. He observed her
glance of surprised inquiry. The spark of enthusiasm
suddenly died out, and his face was
ash-grey, blank, and impassive again, as he
said, holding out the shawl : ' Allow me,
Madame.'

8o AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL

CHAPTER V.

'WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK.'

Above all things don't talk politics to me,'
said the Baroness, putting her pretty feet on
the rung of a chair, and spreading herself out
comfortably in a cosy nook under the
verandah. ' You know, ma chere, we others,
we find it is best to have no politics. I don't
speak for myself I am frivolous and hate all
dry things ; but politics are dangerous as well
as dry, detrimental as well as dull, and, thank
Heaven ! I have enough influence with Dimity
to persuade him of the common sense of that.
Mellin is utterly ignorant of everything outside
Russia.'

And yet,' Hero said, ' I fancy that
Monsieur de Mellin understands more English
than he will allow. I noticed that he listened
most attentively when my cousin and Mr.
Hudson were talking of a working man's club,
to which it seems they both belong.'

WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK: 8i

Renounce that romance, ma cohere !
Mellin is as ignorant as any other Eussian.
He may remember the English he learned
as a child from his English nurse, as he remembers
the German taught by his tutor, mere
parrot poly glottis ; but believe me, the only
language he really knows is French. We, who
have nothing to hope and everything to fear
if we mix oiu-selves up in politics, love the
French language because it is the language of
the world, the language of revolution, the
language of liberty, not to say of license. We
love its audacious literature, its pictures of
social life, its outspoken exposure of everything
that other tongues use language to disguise.
Mellin  look at his face !  is a worn out viveur.
He has had his day  I don't say it was a long
day  and he knows that he would lose his
appointment, an important and lucrative one,
the instant he was suspected of being anything
more or other than the colourless negative
being he seems. To us, a man who meddles
with politics means either a Nihilist or a madman.
In either case his fate is equally hopeless.
Behave me, the silence of the mines is
full of a fine moral eloquence ; but why should
we talk of dismal things ? There I ' and the

VOL. I. G

82 AUT C.SAR AUT NIHIL.

small vivacious woman passed her tiny hand
swiftly across her eyes, as though banishing an
unwelcome vision or dashing away an unbidden
tear, ' it was you, ma chere who
invoked the Siberian spectre ; and the clanking
of his irons makes a dismal discord in this gay
and charming scene.'

Hero was silenced, but not convinced.

Since that evening on the terrace of the
hunting Schloss, Baron Melon had been continually
in their society. No allusion to his
family or circumstances, no hint as to his
views, occupations, prejudices, sympathies, regrets
or hopes, lifted the veil of reserve that
enveloped him. He had come to Sprudelheim
to drink the waters. He had drifted into their
circle, no one knew exactly how ; he frequented
their society, no one troubled himself to guess
why. Originating nothing, for the most part
silent, never pronouncing an opinion unasked,
dumb as to his own personal affairs, his conversation,
if conversation it could by courtesy
be called, was restricted to the merest frivolous
or casual comments on commonplace things
of the moment. An observation on some
startling toilette, a few words about the
cure,' a remark as to the music, an acquiesced

GREEK MEETS GREEK! 83

cent nod if asked to join any expedition to
the environs, a general appreciation of the
cooking, the company, and the Kur, formed
the staple of his daily utterances. The Eussian
Ijenj was apparent in all he said and did, or
left mislaid and undone.

He was too inoffensive for Dislike to single
him out, too courteous to rouse antipathy, too
colourless to excite antagonism. Hero had
wished more than once to ask Madame de
Kerezoff what she knew of his family and
connections ; whether they, the Kerezoffs and
Mellin, were old friends or had now met at
Sprudelheim for the first time ; but she felt
that they had no right to pry into the natural
history of one who asked nothing of them, and
she told herself that a watering-place acquaintance
was too ephemeral in its nature to justify
any indiscreet curiosity on her part.

Meanwhile, Monsieur de Mellin's continual
presence in their small daily circle was viewed
with anything but feelings of complacency by
two of the party.

What's that lean Muscovite hanging about
you for. Hero ? ' asked her father impatiently
one night, when, ignoring Mr. Owen's very
patent attempts to get rid of him, Baron Mellin



84 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

had accompanied their party home, and even
mounted the stairs common to their own and
the KerezofF household. And Fitzgerald forgave
his uncle a whole cargo of sins, hearing
him put the question, which was in his own
mind though he dared not formulate it.

He is going to tea at the KerezofTs, papa,'
Hero answered coolly ; and Bianca added
pertly : ' Don't be rude, G. P. ; everyone can't
be a John Bull.'

Our handsome Hero has theories about
you,' Madame de KerezofF whispered, in
perfect English, to Mellin, half an hour after
the conversation between the two ladies in the
Kur-Garten. ' These English are so reserved,
so cold and reticent, or I think she would have
gone on to make inquiries about you, as to
your family connections, &c. &c., but I didn't
encourage it.'

Mellin's ashen-grey face turned a dull
purple, but he said nothing. The Marquis
of Matlock's name was on his lips, but it remained
unspoken. Why volunteer any information
?

If I did not know you were fireproof,'
the lady went on glibly, ' I should suspect you
wished to sive our Hero brevet-rank as a

WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK: 85

heroine  a little bird has whimpered to me that
you and she have met before.'

A frown clouded her hearer's brow ; but
as nothing audible was interjected into Madame
de KerezoflTs pause expectant, she continued
rapidly : ' However, that is all nonsense ; fortunately,
the oaths which bind us are stronger
than those which fail to bind the irresponsible
victims of religious enthusiasm. We know that
the possible has ceased to exist when we take

our vows ' Again she paused, and her

green and shifty glance seemed to glide over
Melhn's face and figure in a serpentine note of
interrogation.

Is this a warning, or 'looking her straight
in the face  ' a threat ? ' he said slowly.

Oh, neither, mon chevy the lady answered
in a laughing tone ; and falling at once into
the language of their preference, she added,
without a pause, nodding her head in the
direction of two passers-by : ' Quelles toilettes
ecrasantes ! il n'y a que les cocottes pour porter
ces costumes tapageurs ! '

But none the less her companion knew he
had got his hint. 'She is treacherous. She
will report me,' he said to himself; but aloud
he only remarked, without any appearance of

86 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

temper or even of annoyance : ' After all, in
dress as in everything, it is individual taste that
tells. Yours is perfect.'

The Baroness looked at him shrewdly, was
about to speak, but checked herself, and said :
There is that old fool Owen ; let us take a
turn in the gardens. I promised to meet
Dimitri at five.'

Yes ! I must be on the move,' Fitzgerald
was saying to Hero. He seemed moody and ill
at ease. ' I have to see my mother before I
return to Oxford.'

The cousins were sitting on the balcony of
the Owen's lodgings. Mrs. Owen was lying
on the sofa, just inside the open windows. Mr.
Owen and Bianca, with young Hudson, had
gone for a walk.

Shall you soon return ? ' he asked, after a
moment's silence. ' I suppose my aunt's cure
is virtually over ? '

Yes ; for this year. But our plans are
still unsettled.'

Do you think it is wise to stay on here ? '

Wise ? How do you mean ? '

Well, you must not be offended, you must
not think me meddling or impertinent, but
Bianca is very young (and, for the matter of

WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK.' 87

that, SO are you), and you are both, both  well,
my uncle is so absorbed in his Utopian schemes
that he is not as much protection as he might
otherwise be ; and all these idle people hanging
about ; it seems a pity, just at Bianca's age,
that her education should come so utterly to a
standstill.'

Hero flushed. ' Every one needs a holiday
sometimes,' she said.

Of coin-se. Only if it goes on unlimitedly,
you know, it ceases to be a holiday ; and
Bianca may possibly take a j/z, a taste for
dilatoriness and dawdling, not easy to overcome.'


What an admirable father of a family you
will make some day, Fitz ! ' Hero exclaimed,
laughing not unkindly as she looked at him.

The young man coloured. He did not like
her ridicule, and she, notwithstanding her
laughter, was nettled by his interference.

Nevertheless,' he said, affectionately, ' it is
only my interest in you. Hero, my desire for
your happiness that leads me to say this.'

I am sure of it ! ' she answered cordially,
laying her hand with a gesture of cousinly confidence
on his. ' I am sure of it, Fitz. Forgive
me if I laughed. What you say is true.

8.8 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

I am not altogether easy myself. We have
been desultory too long. Idleness demoralises
in the long run.'

May I speak, Hero ? May I ask you
something ? Will you promise not to bean



gi'y

I promise.'

Well, I do not like your surroundings.
Who are these Kerezoffs ? Who is Melhn ?
The Prussian officers, after all, are numbered
and ticketed : there is a tabulated army list  it
would not be difficult to know everything
about them, civilly or officially, but, these
Eussians, who are they ? I don't think Madame
Kerezoflf is a good companion for Bianca.'

'No one can harm Bianca,' affirmed the
mother proudly, piqued by the young man's
criticism. 'No one.' The colour rushed to
her face, and she held her head a little higher
than before.

Fitzgerald blundered on. ' Hudson, who
is a fair French scholar, told me of a conversation
that he had with them one night. As
you can see, he is a hot-headed, impetuous boy,
as generous as it is possible for a fellow to be.
They got money out of him  a considerable
sum of money ? '

WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK: 89

Money ? Are you sure ? ' Hero asked,
aghast. ' Do you mean gambling ? '

Oh, not for themselves ; not to pay their
washing and hotel bills ; I did not mean that.
I don't insinuate anything necessarily base, but
it's not a satisfactory way for a fellow to drop
his coin, even though it be in aid of some
philanthropic, humanistic, socialistic society,
goodness knows what: "To teach the rising
generation of Eussians the true meaning of
patriotism," or some such high saluting'. I
don't blame Hudson. I have dabbled a little
in this sort of thing myself. But we, we
Englishmen,' Fitzgerald added, rather stiffly,
"wear our rue with a difference": for instance,
we draw the line at murder. And they have
taught Bianca to use her influence with Hudson
in that direction, don't you know ; and that
sort of thing.'

Impossible ! ' Hero said, her face scarlet ;
it would be too indelicate.'

True. Hudson is rich ; and, as I need not
tell you, he will do whatever Bianca suggests.'

Are you certain of what you 'are saying ? '

Quite sure. Of course you could not
know it. I don't imply actual harm. But one
would rather not  and '

90 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

There was silence for a few minutes. Hero
did not help him out of his difficulty by saying
in a tone of displeasure, coldly : ' Thank you,
for telling me. I had no idea anything of the
kind was going on ; I will see to it. I hope
we shall find there is some mistake.'

You are not angry with me ? '

'Oh, no!'

But he felt that he had perhaps done more
harm than good. All sunshine had gone out of
her manner. He had annoyed her, and nothing
could possibly come of his seeking to mollify
her in her present frame of mind, the recent
wound still rankling.

You will let me know how my aunt gets
on?'

Certainly.'

I fear she suffers more than she says. I am
afraid she is really ill. Hero.'

I think she is much better.'

Well, perhaps you are right ; you must be
able to judge better than I. Only, I should
never forgive myself if I thought she wanted
for anything ; and so, if I have said too
much '

'We shall not let mamma want for anything.
How can you think so ? You are not

WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK: 91

complimentary or even kind to-day,' and she
rose from her chair as she spoke.

Fitz, by whose bounty, though Hero did not
guess it, the invalid enjoyed both the necessaries
and luxuries of life, knew that again he had
made a mistake. There seemed a fatality in
his words. ' Do forgive me,' he said, humbly ;
I seem to make nothing but bad shots ; it is
so sometimes  one blunders unconsciously.'

To this Hero returned no direct answer.
We Avill have tea,' she said, and went into the
room, where Mrs. Owen awoke from her doze
to say a few pleasant farewell words to Fitz on
his departure.

I will not wait for my uncle and Blanche
said, as he rose at last to take an unwilling
leave. He kissed Mrs. Owen, and stood talking
to her for a few minutes, hungering with her
hand in his until he felt he must go. Then he
stooped and kissed the delicate fingers, wondering
at the beauty of the slender, blue-veined,
feverish little hand. It was as though a
consuming fire burned behind that soft, satiny
touch, and he felt the pressure of the small
hot fingers for hours afterwards. Hero followed
him to the door. She was serious and
pale, but her beautiful eyes were kind and

92 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

serene again as she raised them frankly to his
face.

She, too, laid her palm confidingly in his.
There was something about Fitz that made one
instinctively rest upon his loyal nature. He
was above all petty grudges, yet he felt
dispirited at what had passed, and looked so.

Can I do anything for you in England ? '

Nothing.'

No messages for friends ? '

None.'

And Graham ? When I see him ? '

Hero's face flushed crimson.

All that is kind from all of us,' she said.

Nothing more ? '

No. Our love to aunt.'

Of course. Well, then, good-bye. God
bless you. Bid Uncle and Bianca farewell forme.'


He stooped and kissed her lightly on her
fair broad brow, and the next moment he was
gone. He had done his duty. Now, at any
rate, his conscience would be clear. He had
blundered, but that could not be helped. If
Hero read a threat or warning in his mention
of Graham, he, Fitz, could look his friend
fearlessly in the face*, as one man should look

WHEN GREEK MEETS GREEK: 93

another to whom he is loyal in his secret soul,
loyal in thought, as well as in act and in deed.
It was not of himself, or of his own pain that
he was thinking  indeed, his feelings were
altogether of too mixed and vague a character
to be recognised  but of Hero's, of her
possible displeasure, and of her obvious, if silent,
annoyance.

94 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Chapter VI.

MOTHER AND SON.

Mrs. Fitzgerald, a woman of bitter prejudices
and ' orange ' politics, found it difficult to
forgive her son his cultus for the Owen family.
Of her brother she had always disapproved, as
an amateur financier's prosperous relatives will
generally be found to disapprove of the sanguine
dabbler in stocks and shares, in bubble
companies and ephemeral enterprises who
'never is, but always to be' commercially
blest.'

Dr. Fitzgerald, a popular Dublin physician
of the most successful type, a man who had
spent his life in sitting on soft sofas, clasping
soft hands, feeling feminine pulses, and uttering
sweet and sympathetic nothings, had hidden,
behind his waxen mask, a granite character.
He had no patriotic weakness for Irish investments,
whether in land or industry, but carried

MOTHER AND SON. 95

the proceeds of his perseverance and the patronage
of the Viceregal Court to the stepmother
country, philosophically declaring himself for
the ' sweet simplicity of the Three per cents.'

Thus, when the Enemy with whom he had
been battling (not without palpable remunerative
results) all his life on behalf of others,
laid a cold hand upon the Doctor's shoulder,
and beckoned him to the region where guineas
have no value, the widow, who might otherwise
have been inconsolable, found comfort in
the reflection that, thanks to the dear departed's
prevision, her sublunary course need not be
permanently overshadowed, nor, indeed, materially
altered ; and, as became an appreciative
mourner, she made broad the vidual phylacteries
accordingly.

Nothing accentuated or emphasises the appreciation
of a husband's liberality in respect
of pounds, shillings, and pence better than an
extra margin of black on the writing-paper,
and large and liberal arrangements as to crape
and weepers, bugles and bombazine. A poor
widow is a very poor object indeed, as no
doubt my readers have more than once had
occasion, in the course of their pilgrimage
through this vale of tears, to remark.

96 AUT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

A little of Mrs. Fitzgerald's money, like the
superfluous wool on the back of a fat sheep,
had been caught by the briars and thorns of
her brother's enterprises, and remained hanging
dismally on those branches which had promised
so goodly a crop of grapes and figs, but
had brought forth such a dismal harvest of
thorns and thistles.

Garry ' had always been a little afraid of
his brother-in-law, and Dr. Fitzgerald had more
than once spoken certain truths to his sanguine
connection, such as even the most pachydermatous
amongst us can scarcely hear and not
feel a remote tingling of the hide.

There were no illusions in the Fitzgerald
household as to Mr. Owen ; and Fitz, from
his youth up, had been accustomed to hear
unvarnished opinions of his uncle's life and
character.

The bitter Protestantism of Mrs Fitzgerald
received a lifelong affront in her brother's
marriage with Leonie de Courteville, of whom
she at once conceived and scrupulously entertained
the worst possible opinion, as a Frenchwoman
and a ' Papist.' She even went to the
length of speaking of her brother as ' poor
Garry,' for several months after his marriage,

MOTHER AND SON. ' 97

and when he and his bride were in town,
further accentuated her attitude by inviting
him to dinner en garqoji, in order to testify her
sympathy with his fallen condition, and proclaim
her protest as regarded the Scarlet Lady.
He took good care not to tell Leonie that she
was ignored in the note of invitation ; persuaded
her that a slight headache was a thing
to be nursed ; and set off, in high dudgeon, to
dine alone in Portland Place. "But, on the
road thither, he reflected that, by judicious
amiability, he might extract something in the
shape of a wedding present from his evident
relative, and then determined to put a good face
upon the matter.

Leonie is very sorry, but sight-seeing
has given her such a splitting headache, I
advised her to go to bed, and undertook to
make her excuses,' he said, airily ; and Mrs.
Fitzgerald frowned at the device, whilst the
Doctor, who knew nothing of his wife's rudeness,
and had a weakness for pretty women
(he had been told that Leonie was that,
and something more), expressed unfeigned disappointment
at the bride's non-appearance.
Garry went home with a Bible in one pocket
and a ten-pound note in the other. The kindly

VOL. I. H

98 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

Doctor surreptitiously slipped the note into this
hand, begging him, as he stood a moment dth
the bridegroom on his own doorstep, to buy
some present with it for his wife.

The Bible Leonie received with a look of
melancholy bewilderment, which caused her
husband to burst into shouts of laughter.
About the ten-pound note, it is superfluous to
say, she heard nothing at all.

After all, you and Susan are best apart,'
was Mr. Owen's summing-up of the situation.
She is as bitter and harsh as a March mind,
and her aggressive Protestantism is simply
disgusting.'

The episodes of Hero's birth and baptism
served to point Mrs. Fitzgerald's fierce morality,
and adorn the tale of her grievances. ' Hero ?
Why Hero ? ' she, not unnaturally, asked. ' I
thought a hero was a man  something in Greek
or Roman history ? But I suppose it's part of
the woman's paganism.'

There was a volume of Shakspere in the
house, but it may be doubted if anything in
the pages of that profane writer, or in Herrick's
story of the Hellespontine lovers, could have
reconciled Mrs. Fitzgerald to the choice of her
little niece's name. And Hero's marriage with

MOTHER AND SON.



an Italian put the finishing stroke to her aunt's
accumulated prejudices.

What can you expect ? ' she said, ' of a
pack of intriguing foreigners and papists ?
They are all Jesuits in disguise. No doubt her
mother has arranged the whole thing, and the
alternative would have been a convent ; for I
am told that is what becomes of all portionless
women in foreign countries.'

o

Martello or dei Martel, were sounds her
lips refused to form. ' Towers, I believe, is
the plain English of it ; ' she would answer
angrily if pressed home upon the uncongenial
subject, ' but really I know nothing about
them. Marchese, you say? Some beggarly
foreign title, I suppose. I believe in those
countries any chimney-sweeper, cheesemonger,
or Jew usurer may buy a title for forty pounds.
The whole thing was her mother's doing.
She would not have liked a wholesome
Englishman for a son-in-law.'

Thus justly are we judged by those whom
the world may suppose to be best informed as
to our actions and the motives from which they
spring.

And as Fitz sits in the great gloomy drawing
room of the Portland Place mansion,

H 2

loo AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

manifold past experiences recur to his mind,
and tell him he may expect a very bad quarter
of an hour.

So you've come at last ! ' is Mrs. Fitzgerald's
gracious greeting.

Did not you get my letter, mother ? '

I had a line from Brussels, if that's what
you mean.' Then, after a pause she asks : 'Are
you going to Brighton with me ? '

'I am due at Oxford on the 8th, you know.'

Of course, it is as you like.'

If you will have me until then, I shall be
delighted to go down with you.'

Brighton is the place of all others that Fitz
abhors. Mother and son have compared notes
on this point before. The discussion is one
better avoided if there be a desire for, or a
prospect of, peace.

But this armed neutrality is not destined to
last, and although ' forewarned ' is, proverbially,
' forearmed,' Fitz could not but confess
that at the game of parry and thrust Mrs.
Fitzgerald was an expert. Then, too, she was
his mother, and that effectually sealed his lips
where loyalty did not call upon him to open
them.

What sort of a creature is that wretched

MOTHER AND SON, loi

cliilcl growing up ? ' the lady asked of her son,
when reclining on the post-prandial couch, the
evening of their arrival at Brighton, she felt
that the hour for confidences had arrived.

If you mean Bianca, mother, she is neither
wretched," nor a " child." '

Precocious minx ! she takes after her
mother, who ought to be ashamed to have a
girl of that age. It's simply scandalous. However,
that Alas your aunt's doing.'

They do look more like sisters,' Fitz provokingly
replies, with a sort of veiled complacency.
' People were very curious about
them at Sprudelheim. They created quite a
sensation in a small way.'

I wouldn't give much for the taste of a
pack of foreigners, though I can believe it was
in a very small way.'

'Why a "pack" mother?' said Fitz,
smiling. ' Do you think they lived in kennels ?
But their admirers were not only foreigners.
I can assure you the English quite followed, if
they did not give, the lead, and, as a nation,
wee are spoiled in the matter of beauty, you
know.'

And gave them a wide berth, too, at the
same time, I dare say.'

I02 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Indeed, no. Mrs. Hudson  you remember
Hudson P Mrs. Hudson and her sister, Lady
Gifford, were greatly taken with Bianca, and
Hudson himself, poor fellow, was quite overhead
and ears.'

Designing little wretch ; she ought to be
in the schoolroom or the nursery.'

Mother ! ' said Fitz, laughing heartily and
determined to keep his temper, ' you can have
no idea of Bianca to think the child " designing
" in the sense you mean. And as for being
in the " nursery " or " schoolroom," one solitary
creature like that, shut up in a mu-very ora
schoolroom, would pine like a lonely bird in a
cage, missing its mate. Bianca is here, there,
and everywhere, like a butterfly in the sunshine.
She is the very light of Hero's eyes ;
she amuses her grandfather and gives my poor
aunt a taste of that happy youth which, 1
suspect, was never hers nor Hero's . '

Yet, as he spoke, certain things arose in his
memory, and he wished the conversation had
not taken this turn.

Oh ! as to that,' said Mrs. Fitzgerald viciously,
' who can say what Mrs. Owen's youth
was?'

She had never forgiven Leonie's beauty and

MOTHER AND SON. 103

distinction, her exquisite manner, her gentle
breeding, and her accomplishments. The
Doctor, perhaps, had had a sly pleasure in speaking
of his sister-in-law's attractions en connoisseur,


'If you knew how ill she is, you would
speak less harshly, mother,' Fitz said, his
honest face crimsoning with suppressed annoyance.
He was so tender towards women,
himself, had such reverence for, and faith in,
the ' eternal womanly,' that to him it was a
mystery how one of these sacred and gifted
creatures could wilfully attack and hurt another
of its own species.

Indeed, I should do nothing of the kind,
Fitz,' his mother answered angrily. ' You will
not get me to conform to your Owen-worship,
and so I tell you at once. They are a disreputable
set, from beginning to end ; one as bad
as another, and all a disgrace to their connections.
You have chosen to throw me over,
and to go and spend all your holiday in some
obscure German watering-place, the rendezvous
of the worst characters in Europe, and to
attach yourself exclusively to people you know
I detest ; and then you expect me to admire
and take an interest in them, because, forsooth !

I04 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

a hotheaded young fool like that Hudson is
taken in by them, an old imbecile like this
mother is weak enough to encourage her son
in his folly, and people like the Gifford, who
run after eccentricity of all sorts, are silly
enough to flatter them to the top of their bent.'
And Mrs. Fitzgerald, snorting indignantly, fanned
herself with an air of vehement reprobation.

Mi-s. Hudson looked on Bianca as a child ;
a charming, beautiful, innocent playfellow for
her son, and  whatever the girl's mother may
have had to say to it  you must excuse me
if I confess that I think the boy's mother was
very wise. Both Bianca and Hudson were
surrounded by their respective families and
friends ; and the mother who makes home
pleasant to her sons by gathering fresh, innocent,
well-bred girls about her, does a wise
thing ; for graceful virtue is the best antidote
to vice ; and such things keep youth more
effectually fi'om harm than all the " Wise saws
and modern instances " morality can quote.'

That's right ! Blame me ! Go on ! Blaspheme
religion ! I quite understand your insinuation
as to these model mothers. Perhaps

you will tell me that Her Mrs. Towers is

a model mother, too ! '

MOTHER AND SON. 105

Hero is a perfect mother ! ' Fitz cried,
with conviction, ' and I should not be a man if
I could sit by and hear her abused ! '

A fine perfection ! a woman who left her
husband to go upon the stage ; a woman who
has been before the public of every capital in
Europe and America ; a woman who is nameless,
homeless, husbandless. And you call her a
'' perfect " mother, and you neglect your own
for her, and insult your own, your widowed
mother, on her account! Have I not every
reason to hate her, and her mother, and her
daughter, and all her works and ways ? ' cried
Mrs. Fitzgerald, outraged by her son's enthusiasm.


You are mistaken, . mother,' Fitzgerald
said, coldly.

Mistaken ? It is you who are infatuated !
Upon my word, I believe it is the mother, not
the girl, you are in love with : a woman old
enough to be your mother.'

I know Hero's age.'

I dare say. I dare say she has no secrets
from you. How much money has she got out
of you this time? You blush, and well you
may, to waste your father's hardly-gained
earnings on such a crew ! '

io AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Stop, mother ; even you must not go too far.
Hero would not accept a farthing from me. I
should not dare to offer her money, nor can I
imagine the person who would.'

How can they afford to travel about, to
educate that hobbledehoy of a girl, to pay Mrs.
Owen's doctor's bills ? '

I have never asked them.'

As for your uncle, if you had the slightest
spark of filial affection you would not associate
with him ; he has swindled me out of hundreds.
I dare say they are living on my money at the
present moment.'

Fitz, who knew to the contrary, made no
reply to this. He thought the conversation
had gone far enough, and regretted the turn it
had taken. From his aunt he knew the truth.

With the first arrest of the final summons
already upon her, Leonie had opened her heart
to the friendly, considerate, kind, chivalrous
young fellow, who, from the first hour of their
acquaintance, had been uniformly tender and
affectionate towards her. A woman, no matter
her age, always knows instinctively where she
is loved and appreciated, and a French woman,
with her quick sympathies and sensitive insight,
sooner, perhaps, than any other. She could

MOTHER AND SON. 107

see in his honest eyes that he admired and
loved her ; she could feel his affection in the
arm that supported her feebleness, in the hand
that guided her steps, in the care that placed
her chair, settled her cushions, brought her the
book or the flowers which he thought would
suit her best. And then they had another bond
of union ; secret, known only to themselves, and
seldom alluded to in so many words by either.

Graham !

Hero would never forgive me, my dear
boy,' she said, ' but I must tell you, so that
when I am gone one may know ; one at least
I make you the depositary of truth, doubly
sacred as it will then be by the eternal silence
of the speaker, that you may testify for her
[should the need ever arise] who will then befor
ever dumb. Martello was an unspeakable
villain. My chill loved him in an innocent,
unknowing, trusting sort of way. His appearance,
his caressing lively manners, his knowledge
of the world, his irreproachable tempe, all
roused an interest in the girl's mind, attracted
her ambition, dazzled her imagination. Experience
she had, and could have, none. The
attentions of a man, nearer fifty than forty,
could not but flatter a young creature scarcely

io AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL,

out of the schoolroom. He was engaged with
her father in endless speculations : they where
thrown together ; he talked to her of Italy, of
art, of society, of the world  the world that
she longed to see ; and loving him for these fair
promises, for his flatteries, for all the qualities
wherewith a girl's fancy invests her love, she
married him in spite of all I could do and say
to the contrary. Alas ! it was little enough.
It was too little, I have told myself over andover
again. I should have prevented it at
whatever, at any cost. My child did not know
what she was doing. No sooner were they
married than Martello told her the truth ; told
her that he did not believe in love, otherwise
than as a youthful disease, which, like the
measles or the rose-rash, had to be got over,
and then need trouble one no more : told her
that she must understand her position to
him as that of a partner in a mercantile house.
They were to do their duty to one another for
the good of the firm. She was to use her
abilities in his service ; her fresh young beauty
was to attract and secure new clients ; she
was to play the agreeable, make his home
respectable by the care she bestowed upon
every detail, and to understand that the attend

AND SON. 109

tions he lead paid her, very proper before
marriage, would be altogether ridiculous, out
of place, preposterous between man and wife.
Mercifully the human heart and brain are
so constituted that they are only susceptible of
a certain amount of misery. My poor Hero
still had the illusion of a generous young mind
she did not realise the utter shipwreck she
had made at once. She thought she was
working for her father's and my good ; that if
we grew rich and prosperous by her means she
would have our blessings for all the ease of our
later life. And then she, so used to love, so
fed and nmtmed and nourished on love, believed
fondly that at the bottom of his heart
her husband did love her ; or, if he did not 
why, then, so she whispered to herself, he
should. Her youth, with which he taunted her,
should be no drawback ; she would grow sedate
and serious in pleasing him. Naturally, a man
so much older woidd be tenacious, lest this
friends might accuse him of weakness towards
a young wife. She, who had accepted the
semblance of love as a right, now set herself
to conquer love the reality, as a guerdon. Even
her father saw that Martello treated her in a
manner that nothing could excuse, that he tried

no AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

to make a stranger of her, keeping her at arm's
length, tutoring, criticising, and reproving her,
until the girl grew dumb, dull, dispirited and
weary. There were words  I cannot repeat
them  between her husband and her father,
and '  here Mrs. Owen paused, and the tears
which had been gathering in her eyes rolled
slowly down her pallid cheek, and fell upon the
hand Fitz held in his. The young man stooped
and kissed them away.

Another time, aunt,' he said, ' you are not
strong enough ; it will make you ill.'

After that  some time after  Bianca was
born. Fitz, how can I tell you ? I was with
her, and we never thought she could live
through it. The doctor said she needed hope,
the mainspring of life to most young wives
and mothers ; she did not seem to rally : as
they lay side by side in the bed, mother and
child looked like two waxen images. Martello
was in more than ordinary money difficulties,
and very angry about the arrival of this inopportune
little creature. He seldom came near
his wife. I was glad he left her alone. But
on the seventh day after Bianca's birth the
pressure from without, whatever it may have
been, became more persistent, and he applied

MOTHER AND SON. m

to me. I had no money either to give or lend
Mm. He went to Hero. As time passed and
he did not rejoin me I began to think he must
have left the house. I trembled for all this
excitement and its effect upon my poor girl.
I opened the door, and the sound of altercation
reached me. Hero's voice was so faint it was
but an indistinct murmur. Suddenly a piercing
shriek rang through the house, then all was
still. I stood rooted to the spot. Then I ran
towards Hero's room. Martello came striding
past me. I went on. As I entered the bedroom
Hero snatched her baby from the bed
where it lay beside her, and held its little face
to hers. The nurse took it from her, and as
my poor girl fell back upon the pillow I saw
that her face bore the fiery imprint of five
fingers in flaming outrage on her pale cheek.
The Italian nurse, half frantic, gesticulated,
wept, and raved, and called all the saints to
witness that she was not responsible if her
mistress died, for how could she make a good
recovery.? Hero did not speak a word. . . .
That night she told me that she had given
Martello all her jewels long since, and that he
had desired her to write to her relations for
money. Alas ! the poor child knew we had

112 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

nothing. "Then find some one who has something,"
he said, and suggested a rich sister of
Mr. Owen's, of whom he had heard. But Hero
explained that she did not know this lady, and
that to apply to her would only be to expose
him to lowering remarks, which for honour's
sake she must avoid. He said it was a beggarly
pride that would sacrifice her husband
to these considerations, and that he no longer
requested  he commanded. Hero said that
when she was better she would write to her
uncle. " No ! Dealings with men," he said,
 were better avoided on occasions of this sort."
Hero must write to her aunt ; and her selfishness
in talking of " when she would be better "
was on a par with the rest of her conduct.
She must write for the money now, at once,
to-day, and, seeing she hesitated, he added

furiously : " Now, or never I " " Then

Never ! " Hero cried, all her nerves tingling
with excitement, and no longer mistress of
herself, and the blow fell in response upon
her upturned face. The little baby pined,
wailing night and day ; and its mother sat
looking at it with large tearless eyes, and
said nothing. " Why should it live ? " she
asked wearily. My heart felt broken. I

MOTHER AND SON. 113

wrote to your uncle, and at last help, in the shape
of money, came. When Hero saw Bianca in her
peasant nurse's arras the spell was broken, the
merciful tears came, and mother and babe were
saved. Martello had gone into hiding from his
creditors. He did not write, which was fortunate,
but the time of peace seemed too good
to last, and I daily dreaded his return.

An old friend of the house, a Eoman artist,
coming on Hero and her child, fell into ecstasies
about them, and said his fortune was made if
she would pose for the Madonna he was commissioned
to paint for some country church.
The purity of the young mother was what he
had dreamed but despaired of realising. Hero
consented. The picture made a furore ; the
thing got noised abroad, and when MartoJlo
came home, he found that Hero was in a sense
the celebrity of the hour. The Italians used
to rave about her. She was so serious, solemn,
and sad ; so young, fragile, and tender, that she
really did seem fitly to represent some sacred
mystery.

Then, what she had done for love, Martello
insisted she could also do for money.
She revolted, resisted, rebelled, and  submitted.
It was a shame and a horror to her. One day

VOL. I. I

114 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Hero arrived in London. For a week she
scarcely spoke. The journey and her trouble
had almost killed her. Martello had engaged
in fresh schemes ; new victims were to be lured
into the brilliant net ; he took an apartment,
and desired Hero to send out cards for receptions.
She was to smile upon the men, please
them, inveigle them. His family, one of the
most honourable in Italy, had long ago refused
to recognise him. Jo more room for illusions ;
his wife's role was clearly defined by him. I
cannot tell you what passed between them,
but Hero borrowed a little money of the old
Italian artist, bound him down to secrecy and
came straight home. She told me she would
never go back to Martello, and she never did,
nor could I blame her resolve. She changed
her name (so as to annoy her relatives as little
as possible), and her extraordinary musical
talents shortened the time of probation by
more than half.

The first time she sang in public (it was
for charity at a concert in the English Embassy
at Eome) all Hero's old artist friends were
there ; they gave her a true Italian reception.
It was a great success. She is not so very
different perhaps now from what she was then ;

MOTHER AND SON. 115

only that a sort of ardent fire which was not
excitement nor even enthusiasm seemed burning
within her. From that time forward we
were fairly prosperous. During the season
Hero sang in London, and then she lived with
us. Her income sufficed to educate her child
and to keep them both in tolerable comfort.
Her husband never recognised her under the
name she adopted. My delicate health made
the Italian winters very Welcome to me ; it
was then that  that Graham'  she paused and
went on hurriedly  ' you* uncle talked of
getting a divorce for Hero, but there were
difficulties. A woman, on marriage, adopts her
husband's nationality. Legally Hero was an
Italian, and in Italy there was no divorce
law We were so afraid that in the event of
his discovering she was making money, he
might take the child, which was legally his,
from her, that we lived in fear and trembling.
But at last news came that Bianca was fatherless,
and my poor Hero once more free ! '

Fitz found nothing to say in answer to
these confidences, and yet Mrs. Owen felt he
understood them. 'Hero has never offered
an explanation to anybody,' her mother went
on, ' not that she was too proud to justify heroic

AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

self, but '' My life must be my explanation," is
what she has always said. And so it has been.
I suppose it is because she is without reproach
that she is so entirely without fear. " You
know, mother, and that is enough," was her
invariable reply. But, when I am gone, no
one will know, no one can know (as I did), all
the days of her life and the hours of her days.

Her father is he does not understand  and

besides he was not with her as I was. He is
very proud of her, of her beauty, and of her
success ; but he is vexed that, loathing and
hating publicity with an almost morbid hatred,
she has shrunk from recognition, and has steadily
persisted in withdrawing from professional life.
He says, perhaps not unjustly, that she might
be earning her thousands, and he ascribes her
repugnance to pride and obstinacy, whilst he
believes, now she is free, that she might easily
make what he calls "a brilliant marriage."
Hero will never sing in public again. I know
her reasons. They include more than I daresay
 even to you  and I approve them. You,
who are her only relative  sot my people are
all dead, and the income Hero enjoys she derives
from the de Courteville property which
my brother, dying in Canada, left to her  you

MOTHER AND SON. 117

must be as a brother to her  a younger brother,
it is true, but what of that ? I shall feel
happier to have told you this if you promise
me that, when I am gone, should occasion arise
you will defend her from slander as emphatically
as I myself could do. She is still young,
and Bianca seems an anxious care to be laid
on her weak shoulders. You can defend and
protect her as a younger brother might.'

It was after this conversation, prophetic of
future trouble, that Fitzgerald had ventured to
say to Hero that he thought her mother feeble,
and that the change in her was for the worse.
Something like unreasonable resentment had
stirred Hero's heart, as the sharp stab of pain,
foretelling bereavement, ran through her at his
words. Could he know how cruel he was
in speaking thus ? Was fresh trouble coming ?
Must he needs prophesy evil as though that of
the day were not sufficient unto itself And
her answer showed Fitz that she was vexed and
angry with him for what she deemed the
superfluous cruelty of his remarks.

These were the matters revolving in Fitz's
mind as he sat silently awaiting his mother's
next words.

Don't let us talk about them, since we

ii AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

can't agree,' said lie, after a long pause, stretching
out lier hand to ring the bell for tea.

With all my heart,' Fitz replied ; ' we will
agree to differ.'

His mother's harsh voice startled him out
of the reverie which had transported him to
Sprudelheim, and put to definite flight the
visions of grace and beauty that, but now, had
peopled his dreams.



CHAPTER yil.

THE GOOD cause

It is for the good Cause,' said Mellin.

The short autumnal day was drawing to a
close. Mr. Owen, Hero, and Bianca were
dauntlessly performing their ' constitutional ' in
cork soles and waterproofs.

The mist hung heavy on the dim outline of
the hills ; the drip of the trees sounded cheerless,
as by forest paths they climbed the steep
ascent to the ruined Burg.

The Kerezoffs had left Sprudelheim. The
Hudsonss had left. The diligence had ceased
to ply between the spa and the post-town.
The hotels were shut up, the lodging-houses
deserted, but the Owens were still detained by
the state of Mrs. Owen's health. After a long
fine summer the weather had completely
broken up, and the doctor would not at present
sanction any attempt to move the invalid.

Io AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

Hero, who had rather dreaded the effect on
Bianca of the departure of all her playfellows,
was agreeably surprised by the cheerful philosophy
with which the girl accepted the situation.
It was true that Lord and Lady Gifford
and their daughter had arranged to await their
arrival in Brussels, and that Mrs. Hudson had
Hero's promise to pay them a visit in their
Sussex home before the expiration of the year ;
that the Kerezofs talked of coming to London
next spring, and that all the Prussian officers
had assured Bianca sous toutes les reserves) that
they intended pilgrimages of politeness to the
country of their supreme abhorrence and
contempt. Yet these were but prospective
advantages, not calculated to meet what, Hero
feared, would be the blank and the desoeuvre-
ment of the present. Nevertheless, Bianca's
gaiety remained undimmed ; nor had even the
parting with Eeggie Hudson a more than passing
effect upon her cheerful mood. The old
people viewed with not complacent eyes the
growing intimacy of the boy and girl lovers.
Mrs. Hudson, subdued by Bianca's capable
ways and evident influence on her son, had
whispered a word to the girl's mother. Hero
had smiled, but made no direct reply. She

'THE GOOD cause: 121

would keep her child if she could ; but, remembering
her own miserable youth, and their
present unprotected condition, she would not
selfishly interfere with her girl's happiness, if
happiness for Bianca should be found to lie
in that direction. Eeggie Hudson was a
thoroughly good fellow ; as little spoiled as the
circumstances allowed, and as much in love asa
romantic young gentleman accustomed to
have his own way in all things could possibly
be. Meantime they were both but big children,
and a Midsummer holiday's dream does not
necessarily develop into domesticity of the
permanent placid order, or prolific type. The
young man must see the world, and the girl must
have the opportunity of making comparisons.
True love is scarcely compatible with such
smooth running as the immature circumstances
denoted; and the elders were all prudently
silent as to what was passing before their eyes
and in their minds.

'It is for the good Cause,' said Mellin again,
in his peculiarly inexpressive, level manner.
His voice, veiled, thin and monotonous in tone,
was, when raised above its usual diapason, like
the voice of an invalid or peevish person,
strained and harsh. It had so little ' carrying '

122 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

quality that only the person specially addressed
could catch what he said.

He was now standing with Bianca on a
small natural platform made by a landslip on
the hill-side, overlooking Sprudelheim, some
fifty feet below the ruined castle that crowned
the summit. A bench had been placed thereby
the Society farming the waters, and it was
a favourite point for the post-prandial promenades
of pedestrian Sprudelheimers. Today
the view, like Baron Mellin's voice, was
veiled ; effaced in fog and mist ; and the universe
seemed to be restricted to the small space
of terra firma visible at their feet.

Bianca had declared to her companions
that they must take leave of the scene of their
summer exploits from this spot ; and, agile and
fleet of foot, she had succeeded in outstripping
her mother and grandfather.

Mr. Oven, short and scant of breath, was
uttering Falstaflian laments, as puffing and
blowing he stopped to pull out a scarlet silk
handkerchief, and mop his illuminated countenance.
The thick close autumnal mist was oppressively
stifling amongst the trees. Once or
twice Mellin appeared to pause, as though
politeness demanded the party should remain,

'THE GOOD cause: 125

as it had started, together. But Bianca continued
her ascent with conviction, disdaining
even the semblance of waiting ; and, after a
moment's apparent irresolution, he followed
his energetic guide without proffering either
remark or remonstrance.

Now that they had fairly outstripped the
others and got a good five minutes' start of
them, it was again Bianca who took the initiative.

She stopped, and Melhn simply acquiesced
in the pause. The girl looked at him with
large, inquiring, anxious eyes, and seemed
about to ask a question, but checked herself.
Time was very precious. Twice he had said it
was for the good Cause, as though to impress
it on her mind.

I know,' she answered, almost humbly.

The swiftness of their movements had sent
the blood coursing through her veins, and
given her pale Italian skin an unwonted tinge
of colour. Her eyes were bright, and large
with a strange, ho If veiled expectancy, as they
rested anxiously, impatiently and yet timidly
on Merlin's inscrutable countenance. Then, ashe
made no sign, not even looking in her face,
she said hurriedly: 'Have you brought it?
You do not speak.'

124 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

Is it safe to speak ? '

Of course it is safe ; only we must be
quick. There will be no better time. But it
is short. Julie said I might depend on your
bringing it.'

'Madame de Kerezoff is very prudent 
for herself,' Mellin added in a lower note.
There was no bitterness in his tone. He was
merely stating a fact. It was doubtful whether
Bianca understood. She looked at him with a
puzzled air. ' This is my only chance,' she
said ; ' grandpa is determined, fine or rainy,
we shall go tomorrow, and then '  her voice
suddenly changed, and the lids were lowered
over her eager eyes, whilst her cheek lost its
vivid, delicate pink.

Well, then, I suppose what must be,
must,' her companion answered. ' You know
the conditions, you understand what they includes
You are alive to all the gravity of
their import? You are to be trusted? Remember,
it is only step by step that one arrives
at a full knowledge of the responsibilities
undertaken, but you must realise these responsibilities
step by step too. He who is admitted
to the antechamber is still distant from the
throne-room. The pilgrim must not falter

'THE GOOD cause: 125

even tliougli he learn by painful stations how
far the altar of his desires is from the porch
that first admits him to a distant view of the
shrine.'

I know.'

Does your mother guess or suspect anything?'


Nothing.'

Of that you are sure ? That, if need were,
you could swear ? '

Solemnly'

And you bind yourself by a triple oath of
Secrecy, Self-sacrifice, and Service ? '

I do.'

Then take it my child, and remember
your duty to your brothers and sisters 
brethren in the Bond.'

He opened his left hand, and showed Bianca
a small silver ornament depending from a black
chain.

Vivo clasped hands holding a heart, upon
which was graven in strangle characters : ' To
Eternity.' The obverse of the medallion showed
a death's head, grinning hideously beneath a
crown, and a curious cabalistic sign, of which
Bianca did not understand the meaning.

It was not a very ' gallant ' ornament for a

126 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

man to give a beautiful young girl ; but Bianca
seized it eagerly.

When you look at this, night and morning,
you will remember, with joy and pride, that
you are admitted one of us. The heart symbolises
devotion to the Cause ; the clasped hands,
indissoluble union with it ; the words '' To
Eternity," that you, and all you have, and all
you are, or may have, and shall be, are ours.
The death's head is typical of the " next future ; "
of that oppression and tyranny which two
thousand centuries of wrong have crowned,
throned, and anointed in the name of " God and
Eight." The figure beneath represents a reckoning,
for the amount of which the science of
numerals has accepted no sign. It shadows
forth millions, like the sands of the seashore for
multitude, whose ghastly shades people the
Hades of history, the victims of immemorial
wrong.'

Terrible words, uttered as calmly and with
as little expression as the merest conventional
commonplace.

Nevertheless, nothing daunted, Bianca
moved a step nearer. ' This is my altar,' she
said, laying one slender hand on a huge boulder
that, perilously poised, overhung the valley.

'THE GOOD cause: 127

whilst she slightly raised the other ; ' and on
this rock I swear allegiance to all I know, and
to all I do not know, that may be, and that is,
included in my vows of faith and service

She looked rather like some young inspired
priestess of an ancient faith, invoking her gods
with mystic rites upon the wild hill-side altar,
than a young English girl of the present prosaic
period, of the conventional commonplace type.
But, indeed, Bianca's Italian blood, the fusion
of nationalities, and confusion of strain, that
coursed through her veins, told seriously against
the middle class ' conveniences ' of which her
ostensible life might be supposed the natural
outcome.

Now, put the medal round my neck,' she
said ; again, as always, taking the initiative ;
and let me realise in silence all the immensity
of my privileges.' There was real enthusiasm
in her tone, and she did not attempt to conceal
it, though even to herself her language sounded
stilted and grandiloquent.

Mellin obeyed her bidding.

She shut her eyes and held her breath with
an air of intense ' recollection.'

Two words recalled her to herself.

Mellin murmured :  Your mother.'

128 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Why do you race on in such a ridiculous
way to this beastly dripping dog-hole ? ' said
Mr. Owen, angrily. ' You, Bianca, are as
ghastly pale as I am red ; and you, Baron,
would have done better not to follow the lead
of a romp in such a wild-goose chase. You
should have stopped with us old sober-sides.
Hero, shall you be afraid to sit down for a
minute ? '

Baron Melhn was no favourite of Mr.
Owen. He thought him a needy adventurer,
a dull companion, a beggarly would-be gentleman,
with nothing but a doubtful title and a
shabby suit of clothes to emphasise his pretensions.
Tom Tiddler resents even the bare suspicion
that outsiders contemplate an irruption
on his world-famous grounds for the purpose
of picking up the gold and silver that, of right,
ought to be T. T.'s alone. If the gTcat copper
mines were floated, KerezofF would insist on
giving this shabby-genteel threadbare coated
compatriot of his a portion of the pickings ;
and, the more sharers, the less pickings would
be the obviously unpleasing result.

With Bianca, Mellin had spoken rapidly influent
English, almost without an accent. To
Mr. Owen he replied in a few halting, entangled

'THE GOOD Cause 129

sentences, which that gentleman did not give
himself the trouble to comprehend.

Why did you race on at such a rate ? '
Hero asked, reprovingly.

On the contrary, motherkin, you crawled
like two caterpillars. Besides, what good could
our crawling in company have done ? '

It is sometimes better to do a thing in
company,' was Mr. Owen's sententious reply.
I suppose, having got up, we had better go
down again. But no running away this time,
Miss Bianca.'

Who wants to run away ? ' said the young
lady, not in the most respectful of tones.

Bianca ! ' said her mother, rising hastily
from the dripping stone on which she had
seated herself.

They were all cross, damp, and uncomfortable
; and the presence of a stranger made the
situation anything but pleasant. Fortunately
(two of the party thought) he did not understand
English, and the finer tones of family
discord would be lost upon him.

Might I venture to offer you my arm . '
blandly asked the Baron of Hero.

As a foreigner he deemed the familiarity
sanctioned by the slipperiness of the descent.

VOL. I. K

Iso AUT C.SAR AUT NIHIL.

The offer was decidedly apologetic in tone. Hero
thought it better to take Mellin's arm frankly,
and as a matter of course. She felt as though
some concession were due to this unobtrusive
stranger for the inexplicable ill-humour of the
family party ; and she good-naturedly wished
to convey that the national ' spleen ' was in
fault rather than individual idiosyncrasy.

The slippery stones and greasy earth made
the descent difficult ; now and again Hero slid,
but, with a little cry, recovered her equilibrium.
The Baron checked her fall by a judicious, yet
tender, pressure of the arm. This, so often as
it happened, annoyed her, and she was glad
when, at last, level ground gave her the opportunity
of withdrawing her hand.

The privilege is one I shall not forget,
though I owe it to mere casual circumstances,'
he said, in his customary inexpressive melancholy
voice. ' I, madame, speak from an
isolated position, and my words have therefore
all the more, and all the less, meaning. But
now that we are about to part I may say that
I have watched you with the eyes of respectful
enthusiasm, but I have not dared to ask for
your friendship. The world, Life, has not shown
me any other woman altogether such as you.'

'THE GOOD cause: 131

You are very kind,' Hero answered, stiffly,
as though it were a mere passing compliment
he had paid her. In truth she was indignant
and amazed beyond words at the personalty of
his tone.

The very turn of his sentence was ill-chosen ;
there is always something offensive in being
watched.' Au reste of what consequence
whether he approved her or no ? What he
said was in the worst possible taste and utterly
uncalled for. His opinion was without weight
and his compliments without consequence.
They might not be meant impertinently, but
they were impertinent all the same.

You are not offended ? I hope you are
not offended ? ' he asked, reading her countenance
aright.

Certainly not. Only we will " change the
conversation, if you please.' The annoyance her
words disclaimed her tone sufficiently conveyed.

She expected him to understand that he
was dismissed, and it was with surprise she
heard him begin de novo : 

'My experience of the world is perhaps
the only possession of value that I have. You
will think me deficient in tact, but I hope you
k2

132 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

will forgive me if I say that, though you have
no faults, you have one failing.'

And that is ? ' Hero asked, like a true

woman, her attention arrested by the fact of
his putting her under the microscope.

You do not know how to command.'

To command ? Where ? When ? Whom ?
I have no need to command. I obey my
parents and my child obeys me.'

Pardon me. You ask, as a favour, things
which you should demand as a right. Therefore
you will always be the victim of coarser,
more selfish, more unscrupulous, though not
necessarily, " stronger," natures.'

Some slight twinge of remorse, immediately
suppressed, probably inspired the ill-timed remark.
She understood some particular hint,
concealed in these vague generalities, but she
failed to apply the words ; and this attempt by
a stranger to penetrate, uninvited, into her
personal life offended her.

I suppose it is a mere compliment to ask
you to come in ? ' she said.

The doubtful hospitality was not accepted.

Then it is good-bye,' she continued, as
they reached the gate. In answer to Mellin's
elaborate bow she held out her hand, adding

'THE GOOD cause: 133

in an indifferent tone : ' Aha mode de Bretagne I
a bow is too ceremonious when it means Farewell!'


He murmured something which she did not
understand ; and with what Hero thought a
ridiculous affectation of gallantry in a man who
hitherto had barely recognised the fact of her
existence, uncovered and bareheaded, stooped
and kissed her extended hand.

You should say, like the Austrians, Baron,
I kiss the hand," and let the word stand for
the deed,' said Mr. Owen, who piqued himself
on knowing the world, and boasted that he
could tell a man's nationality by the way he
walked into a room.

Good-bye, Baron, et bon voyage ! '

Bianca came last.

Adieu, Mademoiselle ! '

'A rivederla!' she cried, looking him
steadfastly in the face for a moment, as she
followed her mother into the house.

Mellin had carefully abstained from using
words of farewell. ' We shall meet again,' he
said to himself, as he looked up at the blank
windows, ' but When, and Where ? '

134 eut Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Chapter Viii.

FROM ROME TO OXFORD.

Brussels, Nov. 27, 18

My dear Fitz,  Here we are still at Brussels,
and as our neighbours say, "-' pour cause'' Now
that your aunt is better, nothing prevents our
getting under weigh but the de quoi. My
dividends are not paid till the New Year, and I
don't like to worry Hero about money, as she
has paid all our expenses for the past six weeks,
and is fretting over the loss of what she had 
fortunately not much  in the Bastwick Bank.
If you, like a dear fellow, could oblige me with
a loan of fifty pounds, I Avill send you an
I.O.U. for the amount, and wipe off my indebtedness
at the turn of the year. My wife
and the girls don't know I am writing or they
would send their love.

'Your affectionate uncle, G. O.'

Fitz smiled as he drew a cheque for a

FROM ROME TO OXFORD. 135

hundred pounds, and enclosed it to bis uncle.
He did not hope that the extra fifty would
repay Hero, but it was some comfort to him to
give his uncle the chance of making restitution
to the widow and the orphan.

Oxford, in a dripping November, is not a
cheerful city, though, no doubt, the wisdom
within its walls goes far to redeem the damp
without, and to rescue its inhabitants from
that ennui which is said, by French novelists,
to induce the autumnal batch of British
suicides.

The Christchurch Meadows were underwater
and Magdalen walks deserted. The
waiters at the ' Clarendon,' pasting their pallid
countenances against the windows, and looking
out disconsolately at the martyr monument
over the way, were disposed to envy Cranmer,
Latimer, and Ridley the dryness and warmth
of their final exit, as they tried to " fleet
the time" by counting the Taylorian visitors.
Students in the Bodleian grumbled at the early
darkness that fell upon their labours ; Mr.
Ruskin's army of amateur labourers had abandoned
' spade and wheel ' and ' the ethics of
the dust ' in sheer despair of coping with the
morals of the mud ; all the ' Heads ' had

136 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

bronchitis; the Keble men had taken on a
deeper shade of priggishness, and the Balliol
men a livelier tinge of arrogance ; the Debating
Club had degenerated into a bear-garden, or
had at best become a mere theatre for cub-wrangling
(in the non-academical sense) ; the
plodding men wearily wending their homeward
way were met, virtuous and unsightly,
in dripping mackintoshes and impossible shoes
carrying out the ' constitutional ' of the conscientious,
despite the adverse elements. The
idlers and swaggerers, the rufflers and swashbucklers,
out of sheer desoeuvrement had taken
out a new diploma of readiness, whilst now
and again a don, with a degenerate ' gamp,'
would glide surreptitiously past a noisy group
in terror for his gingham.

It was the weather to make a misanthrope
take out a new lease of hatred against his
fellow-creatures, Fitz thought ; and for the
tame-cat species to yearn with ardent if futile
longings for feminine companionship, sweetness
and light within doors, in place of
sleepiness and fog without  for bright, cheering
domestic grace and happiness, that is as
the promised Paradise to the solitary celibate.
If his hundred pounds would bring the Owen

FROM ROME TO OXFORD. 137

to England, they would be well laid out, lie
thought ; for he was anxious (with an almost
superstitious apprehension of evil at the bottom
of his anxiety) to know that the wanderers were
settled once more in their cosy English home.

Hudson, ingenuous youth, had written to
engage Fitzgerald for the last week of the old
and the first week of the New Year. ' To
meet the Queen,' he wrote upon a huge card,
and down in the corner, with the felicitous
ingenuity of impromptu waggery, added the

cabalistic signs ' of m 'S f'O '

He is very young of his age : he must be
three or four-and-twenty,' said Fitz to himself,
smiling at the conceit as much as at the calmness
of the confidential quip.

Who is young ? ' asked Graham.

Hudson. Look here I ' and he handed
his friend the youth's letter.
' I read, but I do not understand.
\ ' That means Bianca.'

Bianca ? are you serious ? '

Never more so.'

But Bianca is a child.'

So everyone tells me.'

138 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

How well I remember old Casteroni's
picture of her as a baby ! It is like yesterday.'

All the same. Bianca is a woman, and
you deceive yourself. I don't even know
whether one would call her a girl in the sense
of being " girlish." '

How so ? '

Well, on this wise. She has lived exclusively
with old people ; people old by
comparison. My aunt thinks all young creatures
ought to be happy. I believe happiness
is generally held to be a prerogative of youth,
though I expect it's a fallacy. Hero, from
silently dwelling on the disaster of her own
early life, and the consequent drawbacks of
the position, has come to magnify these last
inordinately ; and the passion of self-sacrifice
being strong upon her, she regards life only
in so far as it can be adapted to Bianca's
happiness.'

Graham groaned in the spirit, but in the
flesh made no audible reply ; observing which,
Fitz continued his monologue.

They have all ministered to her ; my
uncle is good-natured and easy-going, proud of
Bianca's beauty and wit. The girl is fearless
and frank; speaks half a dozen languages with

FROM ROME TO OXFORD. 139

facility ; has lived, in a sense, more or less in
public, whilst, so far, she has had no intimacies
outside her own family. My aunt is the only
person who can see any fault in her. But then
she is all mother. What Hero is to Bianca she
is to Hero ; that, and a great deal more.'

Naturally. It would seem the women of
your family have maternity strongly developed
They are, typically, mothers.'

The words were slightly cynical, if intonation
might fairly count.

I don't know. I suppose the heart must
have an outlet in some direction. I don't
think Bianca is a predestined mother. I cannot
fancy her a martyr to domesticities and
dulness. I can fancy her a Joan of Arc, a
Cleopatra, a Zenobia, a Romola, even a St.
Elizabeth, a Corunna, a Hypatia. And the
curious part of it is they all think and keep
telling themselves and each other that she is a
child.'

Tell me about them,' Graham said, settling
himself down in his easy chair, as he took out
a cigar, and, speaking with it between his teeth,
struck a match briskly. It seemed ages since
he had heard anything, and he might as well
make himself comfortable whilst Fitz talked.

140 AUl CSAR AUT NIHIL.

After long abstinence the hungry heart clamours,
though it be but for a crumb of comfort. The
strong man is not always strong ; instinct teaches
him to hide his moments of weakness ; but he
himself knows the weakness is none the less
there.

Fitz also was, in a minor degree, passing
through a phase of heart-hunger. A few
more days and the vacation would empty
Oxford, and if the Owens still remained away,
he would not know what to do with himself, or
how to profit by his freedom. Graham sat and
smoked and listened. His mind travelled back
to the old Roman days, to afternoons on the
Pinch, to mornings in the Campagna, to
evenings in the Coliseum. He remembered
Hero's voice as, at his request, she sang amidst
the shadowy arches of the deserted amphitheatre
one of Neal's grand hymns of the Eastern
Church, and how it had risen, soaring and
thrilling with magic vibrations across the consecrated
scene of Christian martyrdom, until
the final message of consolation rang forth in
silver tones upon the startled midnight air :
Peace ! it is I ! '

These two women. Hero and her mother,
both of them in his eyes martyrs, had been

FROM ROME TO OXFORD. 141

sacred to him in spite of his cynicism ; and, ashe
sat now in his friend's Oxford rooms, hastening
to the story of their later lives, an intense
longing came upon him to see them both once
again.

Mrs. Owen seemed to me like a saint,'
he said ; ' like a Madame de Channel, or some
delicate French lady of other days, devoted to
good works, but gracious and graceful still in
spite of her piety.'

Or, perhaps, because of it,' Fitz interjected,
for my aunt, though deeply religious, is no
enthusiast, no bigot. There is nothing ascetic
or extreme in her view of life.'

No ; she is too calm, of too well-balanced,
too large and liberal a mind, too human and
devoted in her family affections for that. The
wives and mothers who are martyred outnumber
the virgin-martyrs, though they be
not in the calendar. I wish I had made a
drawing of her, with her exquisite profile, her
clear delicate colouring, her noble brow, and
the soft hair, prematurely grey, that gave such
distinction to her head.

She is not changed.'

And then her intelligence, her ready and
easy sympathy, her high-bred air, and 

AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

velloiisly varied conversation ! Never talking
too much or too little, but with a graceful turn
of language which proved to me conclusively
that conversation, as a fine art, is not yet
extinct.'

Thus the two men talked together familiarly
of past, present, and future, as women often
do who love their theme, but men seldom,
and then only under exceptional combinations
and influences.

I shall hear in a day or two,' Fitz said, as
Graham threw the end of his cigar into the fire,
and took down his great coat ; ' if they are in
town we will go up together to see them.'

Graham made no direct reply to this proposition,
but nodded a silent assent and farewell
as he passed out, and found himself with the
rain beating in his face once more in the blank,
cheerless street. Excitement quickening his
pulses, and thrilling his blood, drove him
along the flat country road regardless of the
cheerless autumn weather, and indifferent to
the present solitude and the gathering gloom.

The perils that were closing round the
women these two men loved were such as they
could neither divine nor remedy. The world is
intolerant of the offices of friendship when these

FROM ROME TO OXFORD. 143.

are not authentically solicited by ' the powers
that be.' Every man is supposed, by a convenient
traditional fiction, to be equal to the
headship of his own house. Women err and
stray from weakness, not through wickedness.
Whilst Mr. Owen was maturing a brilliant
scheme for cattle-breeding on the Grampians,
poor foolish little Bianca was slowly and surely
breaking through the fragile barriers of the
family fold, after the immemorial fashion of
seedy sheep.'

144 eut Caesar AUJ NIHIL.

Chapter IX.

REVELATIONS.

The party at Brussels was, like the lot of Mr.
Gilbert's policeman, ' not a happy one.'

I don't know what we could have been
thinking of, but I feel that we were wrong tolet
her see so much of the Kerezoffs,' said Mrs.
Owen to her daughter, in an anxious voice.
Oh ! my poor child, if Bianca were not all she
ought to be to you  if, after all, she were to
disappoint you, I could never forgive her, but
still less could I forgive myself! I was not
blind, and I blame myself  I blame myself ! '

Needlessly, mother, I am sure. You are
over anxious, and I, who saw a good deal of
them, saw no harm in Madame de Kerezoff
She was frivolous, but she lived happily with
her husband ; and she was kind to her children
and servants. I do so fear wearying Bianca by
keeping her too exclusively with us. Jealousy
always defeats its own aim.'

REVELATIONS.



A girl of that age " weary " of her mother ;
and of  you, Hero, of you ?  of such a mother
as you have been ? It seems out of place, like
an ill-timed humility. That is not the attitude
you ought to take up with respect to your child.
Why not assert yourself in a reasonable way,
and maintain a mother's rightful authority ? '

I need not assert my authority if it is not
disputed. Bianca never disobeys me.'

'Because she always has her own way.'

But if there is no wrong, no harm, in her
way? '

Still I am not sure she ought always to
have it. As a mere matter of discipline.'

Surely, mother, that would be making life
too senile. Have you not often said yourself
that life brings its own discipline There are
already difficulties enough without our seeking
or creating them. I hope and believe that the
more indulgent and the less exacting I am, the
more Bianca will love me.'

But she ought to respect you, too ; to
respect your mil, your opinions, you: influence
; to submit her judgment to yours ; to
remember we are three and that she is only
one.'

You were not this Spartan parent to me,

VOL. I. L

146 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

Mamma mia and Hero laid a cool caressing
palm upon her mother's feverish hand, using
the soft southern speech which long sojourn
in the land of song had made familiar on her
lips.

Ah ! my child, things were very different
with you. Bianca has had indulgences and
luxuries that, in my wildest dreams, I never
dared to hope for you. You have worked to
give her an education, pleasures, toilettes ; she
has had change, travel, society, amusement. I
never worked for you. Your change was from
the bedroom to our sitting-room, and vice versa.
You have given all your youth, as you will
give all your middle life, to your child, whilst
I had no youth left to give to mine. You came
a little angel of consolation, a priceless gift tome,
who could do nothing for you, nothing but
love you ; who saw you sacrificed, and knew
it, and made no sign. Ah! my Hero, you
were " the child of your mother only ; " but
Bianca is Martello's child, and in Italian blood
in the Italian nature, with all its apparent
simplicity and frankness, with all its naivete and
caressing surface, there always lurks a strain of
of  help me to a word less harsh than
intrigue, less cold than concealment.'

RE VELA TIONS. 1 47

Mother ! '

Do not be wilfully blind, Hero.'

I am not blind. It is you who see too
much. You are over anxious, over sensitive.'

'You say so, and you think I am unjust.
Have you seen Madame de KerezofTs last
letter ? '

No ; but I could have seen it. Now that
you mention it, I don't know why I did not.
Bianca always offers me her letters ; and if by
chance she omits to do so, I do not like to ask
o see them, lest I should appear to be, what I
am not, and never could be where she is concerned
 suspicious . '

That sort of delicacy might be very well
between equals and friends, between husband
and wife, but it is overstrained between mother
and child. It is more than that, for it is a
neglect of duty, a manque de surveillance which
some day you will regret.'

A generous mind is far more likely to feel
itself bound not to betray implicit confidence.
Many a nature that would evade or resent suspicion
would feel it impossible to be false to a
trust.'

You credit youth with a strength of will

148 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

beyond its powers, and you judge other natures
by your own. But where outside adverse
influences creep in, parents ought not to be
surprised to find their trust betrayed. Why
do they not lend the aid of their authority,
the strength of their influence, claim the full
weight of their position as parents, and thus
help their children out of the beginning of
difficulty?'

Hero, for a moment, did not reply. She
was thinking how clearly and strongly her
mother spoke, and how different had been
her practice from her theory.

'Young people are so differently brought
up nowadays, mother,' she said at length,
They resent all attempt at control. Even
when most willing to obey, it must be of their
own freewill, of their own initiative, not of
compulsion.'

May I ask you something. Hero ? '

Certainly. Anything.'

Did you know that Bianca called Madame
de Kerezoff' " Julie " ? '

Impossible ! '

But true ! I saw a letter open on the
table. It was only the commencement. As
Bianca's grandmother, and, in some sense, her

REVELATIONS. 149

guardian, I did not scruple to read it. I did
not like what I read.'

Bianca could not say anything wrong.'

Perhaps not. I do not know. It depends
upon what you call wrong. Words  or their
meanings  are elastic'

mother, you misjudge her ; you do, indeed
! '

And, if Bianca disappoints you, what will
your position be ? ' Mrs. Owen went on, as it
seemed to Hero, ruthlessly. ' You have set
your life and happiness on the cast of the die,
you have sacrificed everything to it, and you
must remember that you have nothing to fall
back upon if things turn out differently from
what you anticipate.'

Do you know anything, mother, or are
you speaking generally ? ' Hero cried with a
sharp tone of suffering in her voice. ' I cannot
understand you.'

Respect forbade her saying what she felt,
that her mother was needlessly torturing her.

Perhaps a little of both. If you are wise
you will be guided by me ; you will trust in my
love.'

It was true that Bianca's temper had
seemed, day by day, to grow more uncertain.

I50 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

She was impatient and moody, almost disrespectful
to lier grandparents, and disregardful
of lier mother ; the very character of her
beauty had undergone a change. Her moments
of gaiety were loud and forced ; she was restless
and snappish ; now unwilling to move out of
the house, at another time complaining of the
monotony of their Brussels life. The only
moment of the day that seemed to interest her
was when, at the sound of the postman's foot
uJDon the stairs, she would rush to fetch her
grandfather's newspaper.

Why does Bianca always go to meet the
postman? ' asked Mrs. Owen one day.

I do not know. Out of idleness, by chance,
for no reason,' Hero replied, inwardly hurt at
the implied suspicion. To suspect her child
seemed to her an outrage, a degradation
of her own maternity. A coolness was growing
up between her mother and herself where
Bianca was concerned. Now and again fits of
gaiety and parchment brought back the frank
merry girl of the early summer. The denouement
was at hand.

Ah, Mamma mia ! do you know what the
people say? I give it you in 99 ? I will not
tell you ; it will make the motherkin too vain.

REVELATIONS. 151

And yet I love them for it.' Then, suddenly,
with almost the impassioned tone of a grown
woman : ' Ah, mother ! why have you not given
me, your own and only child, some of your
good gifts ? Why do you take all the love and
keep it all ? Why do you gain people's hearts,
and not care to have them? Why have you not
given me some of these gracious gifts, that I

might win hearts ? And ' She stopped,

confused, her face crimson.

And throw them away, as you used to
throw your broken toys, goosey goosey gander !
Why, that is what you accuse me of doing ! '

I should not throw them away,' the girl
said almost suddenly, ' I should use them ! '

The light of enthusiasm and passion had died
out of her face, her voice was harsh, cold, and
resentful.

You have enough love, my child, and to
spare ; you need not wish for more,' Hero said
tenderly, pained she knew not why by the
childlike outburst. ' The measure of mine is
pressed down and running over. Strangers
need not intermeddle with our joy.'

Have I yours mother, truly  all yours .
All ? all ? ' she repeated jealously, insistingly.

All mine.'

152 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

So that you could forgive me anything 1 '

I cannot fancy that I shall ever have to
forgive you anything, Bianca mia!

But if you had ? If put to the test ? '

I cannot say what I should do under
impossible circumstances,' her mother answered
gravely ; ' and we need not torment ourselves
with vain imaginings. It is foolish, even if
not wrong.'

Then you do not love me as I mean.'
The girl had felt some subtle hidden reproof
in the mother's tone, and in her excitement
was ready to resent it.

'But this is profitless, idle folly,' Hero
said cheerfully; 'you must not give way to
morbid fancies, my child. Brush away these
cobwebs, and be my dear Bianca again. You
are not amiable of late, not as I like to see you.
And, since we are on disagreeable subjects, I
must beg you to take heed how you answer
your grandparents. They are too good to
you for you to treat them roughly.'

Mr. Owen had permitted himself some
freedom in speaking of the KerezofFs and
Baron Mellin, and he had expiated his fault
at his granddaughter's hands without knowing
the cause of Bianca's ill-temper.

REVELATIONS. 153

Give her a couple of anti bilious pills,' he
said with vulgar common sense, declining to
take offence seriously. ' The girl is out of
sorts and wants a dose. Bianca, who chose on
the contrary to take everything just then from
the tragic side, overlooked her grandpa's
existence for several days, and was indignant
with him for not perceiving her displeasure.

What is this P ' said Mrs. Owen one
afternoon, holding out her hand carefully as
she asked the question.

The three ladies were in her little sitting-room.
Mr. Owen was taking his constitutional.


With a cry Bianca darted forwards, springing
like a young panther at the fragile hand.
She almost tore it open. Glittering between
the slender fingers she recognised her silver
medal, from which the black chain broken in
one of its links still depended. In her excitement
she snatched it roughly from her
grandmother, Hero looking on in silent
amazement.

It is mine ! ' she cried.

'Yours? What is it? What does it
mean ? Where did you get it ? Why this
excitement? Why have you never shown it

154 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

to US ? Bianca, how can you be so rough to
grand mamma ? ' were the questions that fell
from mother and grandmother in a perfect
hailstorm of dismayed interrogatory.

Hero was pale to her very lips.

Bianca answered not a word. Her hand
closed over the medallion ; she stood before
the anxious questioners with compressed lips,
sullenly defiant.

Will you answer nothing, Bianca ? ' her
mother said at last, in indignant despair.

No.'

At least, tell me who gave it you ? Don't
you see, my poor child, that it is you who by
your misconduct are giving importance to a
thing which perhaps is quite indifferent ; by
your foolish obstinacy you are placing yourself
needlessly in the wrong. There can, at worst,
be only some error of judgment on your part.'

No answer.

Bianca,' cried her mother, roused at
length to indignation, ' I command you to
tell me who gave you that thing ? After all,
if the only fault you have committed is in
having kept the matter a secret, you need not
be afraid to own it.'

Then, as suddenly a happy thought occurred

REVELATIONS. 155

to lier, Hero's face lightened and brightened.
A girl's modesty is apt to be almost /a7owcA
when her maidenliness is touched. Smiling
and softening, her mother bent over, and in a
coaxing voice that almost pleaded for forgiveness
with her child, said : ' Did Eeggie

Hudson give it you, Bianca ? If so ' and

a world of happy anticipation beamed in the
sunshine of Hero's hiatus.

Eeggie Hudson ? He ? I should think
not, indeed ! ' the girl cried. 'Why should I
hide anything about Eeggie Hudson ? ' An
expression of almost cruel contempt was in
her voice as she repeated scornfully : ' Why
should I keep it a secret if he had given it
me?'

Why, indeed ? ' her mother answered
sorrowfully, and again there was a pause.
Mrs. Owen had not yet spoken, but her
daughter felt that in her own mother's presence
she could not thus suffer defeat.

Taking Bianca by the arm she said firmly :
Bianca, I insist upon knowing once for all
who gave you that extraordinary ornament 
whatever be its meaning. Tell me who gave it
you, and when, and where ? '

The worst had come. But it had been

156 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

foreseen and provided against. Withdrawing
her arm from her mother, and looking at her
defiantly as she threw her head back : 

'Madame de KerezofF gave it to me,'
Bianca said in a hard voice. She was deadly-pale.


A moment's doubt glanced across Hero's
mind but she dismissed it. Her child would
not lie to her.

And you write to her as " Julie ? '"

Who told you so ? '

I did,' and her grandmother's reply met
no response.

Again there was silence.

All this maybe very unimportant, very silly,
trifling, and of no consequence,' Hero said,
but that you should have secrets from us,
from your mother and grandmother ; that you
have secrets with strangers, with whom you
appear to be on terms of surprising familiarity,
can never be unimportant.'

They are not strangers to me.'

They are to us, and I blame myself for
my weakness in allowing you to spend all your
time with them as you did at Sprudelheim,
but I thought your heart was with us, if you
found more amusement with them. It would

REVELATIONS. 157

seem that the affection which without any
cause or reason you have withdrawn from your
family, to lavish on these strangers, has not
spoken one word of warning to your heart

They are not strangers to me,' the girl
again cried, passionately reiterating and reasserting
the fact \\dth hard pertinacity.
And, if you are a stranger to them, you need
not have been so. They showed you every
kindness ; they lavished every attention on you.
Why, everyone noticed it. Madame de
Kerezoff  Julie  told me all Sprudelheim
coupled your name with  with  Baron Mellin's,
and '

Bianca ! ' cried her grandmother, in a voice
that rang through the room ; and even the
infuriated girl was quieted into momentary
respect by the indignation that spoke in the
one word of protest. ' You forget yourself
You forget that you are speaking to your
mother. You forget yourself as a child, as a
modest girl. Go to your room, and when you
are able to consider your words, when you are
calmer, I, not your mother, will speak to you.'

With pale face, but head erect, Bianca left
them.

Hero, as pallid as death, dropped into u

158 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

chair. ' After all, perhaps it is mere childishness,'
she said, bravely, attempting to smile in
answer to the look of inquiry in her mother's
face. But the next moment she broke down
utterly, her courage deserted her, and she sank
sobbing on Mrs. Owen's shoulder. 'They have
robbed me of my child's heart,' she cried ; ' if
that is turned away from me, what am I todo?'


Sto, Hero,' her mother answered, quietly ;
her heart is not turned against you ; you have
not devoted your whole life to this child for
nothing. Only you must be firm, and not let
her see the extent of her own power, or. she will
abuse it.'



Chapter X.

THE GOOSE WITH THE GOLDEN EGGS.'

Ix a wretched room, situated in one of the
most miserable shins of St. Petersburg, a pale
woman in a shabby serge gown, trimmed with
Astrachan sheepskin, was engaged in rapidly
setting up type. A table, three chairs, and
the inevitable Ikon, or holy picture, were,
except a small printing-press, all that the place
contained. The grey winter afternoon was sinking
into night ; a smell of hot tallow rendered
the atmosphere of the little room sickening ; the
closed stove gave out a metallic vapour which
made the air stifling beyond endurance. Yet
a man, who was seated at a desk Writings,
uttered a murmur of unmistakable protest as
the woman rose, and opening a little pane
of glass in the double window, thrust her
head into the aperture.

The draught caused the candle placed

i6o AUT CJLSAR AUT NIHIL.

before the Ikon near the broken cornice, to
flicker so as to endanger the existence of the
greasy saint thereon depicted.

Pest ! it was only wanting that the draught
should blow out our last candle,' he exclaimed,
as the long snuffed wick at his elbow sent
the flame across the paper and accelerated the
gutter of the tallow.

I cannot bear this atmosphere any longer.
It is stifling me,' the woman answered shortly.

I told you that you were too fanciful, and
delicate of fibre for the work.'

Nothing of the kind ; fancy is not in it ;
but one must breathe.'

I don't see the necessity. As a matter of
fact, Katinka Petrowna, we have not breathing
time, much less leisure to squabble. This sheet
must be struck off to-night, and I have not yet
finished my address to our brethren at Moscow.'

What time do you meet the delegates . '
she asked, turning her head for a moment, but
not looking at her companion as she spoke.

At nine.'

A pause ensued, during which the woman
silently closed the square of glass, and returning
to the ' case,' continued her work with skilful
rapidity. After a pause the man spoke, but

THE GOOSE WITH THE GOLDEN EGGS: ici

he also refrained from looking up, keeping his
eyes fixed on his manuscript.

At what hour have you to go to the ball?'

I must be ready by half-past seven.'

'At the Winter Palace?'

Yes.'

I am ill. My servant will go at the last
moment and report to Colonel Krackowsky
that I am in bed. If necessary he will make
my excuses, semi-officially.'

And if they send to see ? Surely it would
be wiser to go ? '

They Avill not. Du reste, the figure that
will be lying in my bed must not be disturbed.
Ivan will take care the patient sleeps his
feverish cold " away.'

If we lighted another candle ? '

No. We cannot afford it ; the neighbours
might talk.'

'We are so fortunate in having no Dvornik,

 The functions of the Dvornik, or yard-keeper, somewhat
resemble those of the French Concierge. He acts as a sentinel,
standing all day at the gate or door of the house to which he
is attached, closely observing all incomers and outdoes. He
is popularly supposed to be a paid parasite of the police, and
any reluctance on the part of the occupant to permit the
Dvornik to enter his apartments would rouse his suspicion, and
subject the tenant to police surveillance. The Dvornik is

VOL. I. M

1 62 AUl CSAR AUT NIHIL.

that I should have thought we might have
allowed ourselves the luxury of forgetting the
neighbours,' Katinka said, as, with a sigh and a
shrug of impatience, she continued her work.

How about the correspondence ? ' asked
her companion, after the silence had lasted sometime.


It is safe ; Dimitri will bring it.'

A step was heard upon the wooden stair as
she spoke. Katinka held up her hand in token
of attention, and listened, looking across at the
scribe, who also paused for a moment, but
without looking up. A hand shook the rough
wooden door in the lintel, and a voice outside
said, impatiently: 'It is I! Dimitri Serges
Be quick.'

The sallow woman gave a sigh of relief,
then, as though awaiting orders from the man
at the desk before drawing the bolt, kept her
gaze fixed upon him, until he called boldly ina
loud voice : 

Hast thou brought the potatoes, my friend ?
and if so, what sort are they ? '

English. The German seedlings, as well as
the Swiss kidneys, are rotten.'

literally a 'hewer of vood and drawer of water and it* a
familiar feature in Russian domestic life.

THE GOOSE WITH THE GOLDEN EGGS: 163

'Tis all right,' said the scribe, nodding at
the woman, and the bolt was suddenly drawn
on the inside.

Dimitri Serguevitch, otherwise Baron Kere-
off, in the dress of the ordinary Eussian
moujik, entered the room. Across his shoulder
hung a coarse canvas bag, of which the inequality
of outline was sufficiently suggestive of
the vegetable produce alluded to.

You might have opened quicker,' he said,
throwing the sack upon the ground as he looked
at Katinka.

I might, but I did not. Goodness knows
I am Weary enough of all these tiresome precautions,'
answered the woman, dispiritedly,
it seems such a farce ; it adds gall and wormwood
to the daily cup.'

No farce where so much is at stake,' remarked
the scribe, still writing. 'How could
you be sure that some spy in disguise had not
appropriated Dimitri's sack ? And if your
husband where to get into trouble through

neglect of such simple precautions '

'I know my husband's voice.'
It is more than I do, in that Novgorod
patois. But it is like a woman to weary of
small things ; yet by trifles empires have been
M 2

1 64 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

overturned. The cackling of geese saved the
Capitol.'

If I don't carry it far enough, you carry
it too far, with these eternal precautions, mon
ami. Sergius and Julie are '' Dimitri " and
Katinka," even behind bolts and barricades
for you. But if you have finished your address
to the delegates, you can rest awhile, whilst I
read the evening's correspondence.'

The potatoes and turnips were rolled out
upon the bare floor, the false bottom to the
sack unripped, and a packet of letters extracted.

The English last,' said Mellin, trimming
the tallow candle.

In accordance with his command, French,
German, and Swiss letters received the earlier
attention.

The Gallic cock crows loud,' Mellin said
contemptuously, but he lays no eggs.'

Julie read on.

Our German brethren play the hen to
the Gallic cock,' he continued in running
commentary ; ' if they do not crow, they sit ;
sit fast and firm, but their eggs are addled with
over much incubation. Go on.'

The Swiss correspondence seemed also to
afford but little satisfaction.

THE GOOSE WITH THE GOLDEN EGGS: 165

The Swiss are the most selfish people
under the sun,' grumbled the commentator.
Eemember the Route du Chine, where the
Eussian delegates were grossly insulted. They
are, like all hybrids, respectably deficient in all
the qualities, and all the defects that mark
race." As calculating as the German, as
wordy as the French, they have no comprehension
of self-devotion in a great cause.
Go on. Hope lies at the bottom of Pandora's
box.'

The goose with the golden eggs,' laughed
Julie. ' Let us see how far the generous folly
of these (so-called phlegmatic) British will
take them ; though, to do them justice, it is
only the English who are capable of enthusiasm.
I cannot imagine a conspiring Scot ; the Irish
are all froth and sentiment.'

At the words 'folly' and 'froth,' Mellin
frowned.

'Your terms are not well chosen,' he said,
sternly, ' but no matter, time flies ; ' and, signing
to her to proceed, he fell back in his chair,
his gaze fixed upon the ceiling, as though
seeking patience amongst the rafters.

 My faith ! but it is long ! ' said Julie,
glancing at the closely written sheets. ' If I

1 66 AUT C.-ESAR AUT NIHIL.

am not to skip, there is no time to lose ! ' and
she began : 

.' Fail-holt, near Midhurst, Sussex,
December, 18  .

'Dear Brother,  Although your calendar
differs from ours, you cannot be angry if I
begin by wishing you a " Merry Christmas and
a Happy New Year." You will see by my date
that I am no longer in London. Indeed, I
only stayed there a few days, for grandmamma
was so ill on our arrival from Brussels, and
continued to suffer so much that mamma wrote
to explain to Mrs. Hudson we could not possibly
carry out our promise of spending the last
week of the Old, and the first of the New
Year vith them. By the next train Mrs.
Hudson and Eeggie came to town, and by dint
of telling mamma they would never foi-give her
if she refused, and declaring I was looking pale
and thin, they got their own way, and brought
me off to Fairholt with. them. I came because
you had given me instructions as to what I was
to do if occasion offered ; and, if I had refused,
I should have had no opportunity of speaking
to Eeggie in private ; and I Alas the more
willing to come because I was utterly wretched
at home. Of course no one knows I write to,

THE GOOSE WITH THE GOLDEN EGGS: 167

or receive letters from, you, for I could only do
so by making pretence to write to Julie. This
mamma supposed to be merely the idle gossiping
correspondence affected by young ladies,
and she never would have suspected the truth
but that grand mamma happened to see one of
my letters beginning '' Dear Julie," instead of
Dear Baroness Kerezoff," and that brought
about a fearful scene, which, however, would
have died out and been forgotten, but for
something that happened almost immediately
afterwards, and of which I nuit now tell you.
I know that you will blame me, say I am
undeserving of your trust and confidence,
perhaps think me a careless, idle, ungrateful girl.
I blame myself so much that you cannot he
more severe to me than I am to myself ; but
that will not remedy the disaster. Here it is.
One day, before I had missed it or knew of my
loss, grand mamma picked up my medallion.
The little iron chain had snapped and fallen
through a loose jacket I was wearing. Owing
to the softness of the carpet I did not hear it
fall. I thought I should have fainted when
grand mamma opened her hand, and asked
whose it was ? I snatched it from her. She and
mamma were furious. They talked of " deceit,"

i68 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

and "betrayal of trust," yet they only thought
it a grotesque ornament, given me by Julie.
I let them think so. It was arranged Julie
should senile although you gave it to me. And
now, the moment I thought impossible, but
which you, in your wisdom and prevision had
foreseen, had arrived! It was not the thing
itself, they said, but the keeping it a secret,
that hurt them.

Faithful to my promise, I gave no explanation
; for, seeing them so put out by a trifle I
could not help being glad that I was bound
in honour not to tell them the truth. How
I repented that I had not passed a ribbon
through the ring, for then the vexatious thing
need not have happened. The feeling that I
was suffering silently for a great cause could
not buoy me up, for the suffering grew out of
my own carelessness, and was totally unconnected
with the thing itself; and though all the
petty considerations of personal affection and
jealousies, as you have so often told me, shrink
into utter insignificance when compared with
that which must make or mar the happiness of
millions of fellow-creatures, yet I am uneasy at
having wounded my mother without benefiting
a single human being. The only thing that I

THE GOOSE WITH THE GOLDEN EGGS: 169

feel satisfied with myself about is that I have
offered no explanations. I have strictly obeyed
your injunctions on other matters, as you will
presently see.

Opportunity soon offered (as Reggio Hudson
and I walk and ride together every day,
sometimes alone, sometimes with neighbours) forme
to tell him the contents of your last. Of
course I did not say that I had heard from
you, since you forbade it ; but I spoke as
though the information, the argument, the
reasoning were my own (you must not think
me very conceited). He seemed a good deal
cooled down since Sprudelheim, and said he
did not like having unnecessary secrets from
his mother, who is very good to him. He also
told me, what I did not know before, that he
only comes fully of age at five-and-twenty, and
that although he has a very liberal allowance,
he can't dispose of large sums of money. It seems
that he has promised never to go to strangers
or money-lenders, and that he had to borrow
largely of Mrs. Hudson to make up the sum he
lost to the KerezofFs at ecarte. Mrs. Hudson
said very harsh things about people winning,
privately, large sums of money from young
men who are minors. This obliged Eeggie to

I70 AUT C.-ESAR AUT NIHIL.

tell her that all they so won they devoted to
good works, printing, and so on, for the enlightenment
of their poorer fellow-countrymen ;
but she persisted that no good could come of
ill-gains, and Eeggie said she was too old to seethe
" Cause " in its true light, or to understand
that in elevating humanity one forwards the
ultimate happiness and liberty of the whole
world. Eeggie and I almost came to words,
but as you forbade me to quarrel with him I
managed to keep my temper. He proposed
our laying the whole thing before Mr. Fitzgerald,
who, he says, is an advanced Liberal,
and quite without bias ; but I protested against
this, and even made him promise me, upon his
word of honour, not to consult my cousin, for
I think he was already suspicious before we
left Sprudelheim. You had better not write
to me here. If I had left, Mrs. Hudson,
suspecting nothing, might forward the letter
through mamma. Englishmen have very odd
ideas ; they are strait-laced in some things to
an incredible degree [although the freedom
allowed to young English ladies always astonishes
foreigners], and even Eeggie, though
he seems to be ready to do almost anything
in order to stand well with me, would certainly

THE GOOSE WITH THE GOLDEN EGGS.' 171

oho against me if he thought I was cleceivmo-
niy mother. My cousin Fitz worships grand-mamma
and mamma equally, and I fancy has
no great liking for me, so that I am rather
uncomfortable all round ; but I am afraid you
will be disgusted with me for talking so much
about myself. As Eeggie could only spare
five-and-twenty pounds, which he begs me to
say he hopes will go to the " Siberian exile
fund," I add the Christmas-boxes grandpa
and grand mamma sent me. Mamma did not
give me money, but a locket : and Fitz sent
me, through her, the bracelet I forward by
post, Which you must give to the fund for
the widows and orphans of those who have
died for their opinions. If there is anything
I can do, let me know ; but if you are too
busy to write, let me have only one line,
saying, " / forgive soil' My love to Julie.
This goes, as usual, under cover to her. Ever
faithfully, Bianca.'

The foolish, school-girlish, garrulous letter
seemed strangely out of place amongst such
grim surroundings, but the crisp Bank of England
notes crackled agreeably between Julie's
slim lingers as she smoothed them out and held

172 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

them to the candle with a half contemptuous
smile.

Has she sent the bracelet ? ' asked Mel-lin,
disdaining sentiment, and not ashamed to
seem grasping since his greed was for the
Cause.'

'Doubtless. But you know parcels are
always delayed in the post. What a feeble
little goose it is ! But beggars can't be
choosers, and we cannot afford to despise the
golden eggs.'

The propaganda is at a standstill for want
of funds,' said Mellin, gravely

We must see what can be done am Ort
und Stella. To-night I shall see Prince
Karishkin ! ' and Katinka made a sweeping
court curtsey in grotesque contrast with her
frayed and faded gown.

If it be true that " absence makes the
heart grow fonder," the charming Julie de
KerezoiF will only have to ask and to have,'

 It is erroneously, but very generally, believed, that the
Nihilists have enormous means at their disposal. So opposed
is this to the true state of the case that, as a modern Nihilist
author observes, ' they are avails hunting about for a feiv
roubles. The expenses of the struggle are immense, and they are
compelled to do everything in the most economical mariner, often
at the risk of their lives''

'THE GOOSE WITH THE GOLDEN EGGS: 173

Mellin replied, answering her curtsey by an
expressive gesture.

Katinka curtsied again in acknowledgment,
but sighed the next moment, as she said to
her husband, who was listening moodily to the
dialogue : ' I have barely time to dress for the
Court ball.'

And a propos,' Mellin exclaimed, ' your
diamonds ? '

I have the whole parure!

I am not sure that I shall allow you to go
to-night,' said her husband suddenly, awaking
out of his sullen moodiness, and speaking with
some violence. ' I am sick and surfeited with
mortifications and annoyances. There is a
term to human endurance. What, if your
hundred odd bosom-enemies should discover,
Julie, that you are wearing paste ? '

'No fear, non ami. If paste were so
easily recognised as that, the Palais Royal
jewellers would starve.'

And you do not regret your jewels . '
asked Mellin, with an inflection of respectful
sympathy in hiss voice, as, passing by the
husband's remarks in silence, he looked
curiously at the wife.
' Not a bit.'

174 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

It is for the Good Cause.'

It is to avenge a sister's wrongs. Revenge
is sweet, especially, someone has said,
to women,' JiiHe answered.

Call it by what name jou like, cela revient
a la meme chose. I speak of the thing, you
of the person ; but we are at one, for all that.'

'Eemember, Julie,' Kerezoff interrupted,
you have to make a wide detour. You have
forgotten that your toilette che ville is where
you left it, and that you said half an hour
since you must be going.'

Yes ! and my servants and sledge still
waiting before the princess's portico, whilst I
am supposed to be drinking endless tea. Till
this day fortnight then,'  and, nodding to Mellin
as she blew out the candle, Julie and the two
men passed out of the wretched room on to the
squalid landing of the miserable house, locking
the door of the garret carefully behind them.

'See,' said a neighbouring cobbler to his
wife, ' Dimitri Serguevitch and his sister have
put out their light. I wager they will be up
and off betimes, for they have been hard at
work to get their gift-books and Irons ready
:against Christmas.'

I don't envy these poor book, medal, and

THE GOOSE WITH THE GOLDEN EGGS: 17

Ikon hawkers at this time of year,' said his
comely kind-hearted spouse ; ' but what wilt
thou ? One must eat to live, and they are
fortunate in having no little mouths to clamour
to them for food.'

That's as it may be,' said the friendly
cobbler, patting his little cobblers on the
curly pate, whilst the mother bent and kissed
the child's blonde head.

Mellin had been endeavoring ever since
the year 1860 to establish a secret printing-press
in St. Petersburg. He and his associates
fully recognised the fact that Herzen's free
press in London, and that in Switzerland, no
longer sufficed for the needs of the Propaganda,
since local questions were daily becoming more
urgent.

Other ' circles ' had made the same attempt ;
but, after printing a proclamation or two. had
invariably been discovered. One society, whose
type and machines had lain hidden away in
holes and corners for more than fYQ years, had
been betrayed by the treachery of a Dvornik
and their property confiscated, whilst the conspirators
were subjected to perpetual police
surveillance. Domiciliary visits were the
order of the day ; and, after so many failures,

176 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

the project was finally abandoned as impossible
realisation.

Only Mellin, with that tenacity of purpose
which was one of his distinguishing characteristics,
still clung resolutely to his original
design.

Julie Kerezoff, emulating the example of
many young ladies of aristocratic birth  who,
in order to spread the principles of the Propaganda,
laboured as many as fifteen hours a day
in factories, workshops, and fields  had spent
the whole of a summer holiday in Switzerland
acquiring the compositor's art ; and, knowing
her energy and trustworthiness, Mellin had
confided to her the secret of his address. Not
even his contributors knew where the press was
established, and all communications reached
him through a third person, who neither
knew their import nor suspected Mellin's connection
with this branch of Propagandist
activity.

The mechanism was, necessarily, of the
simplest, and in case of need everything could
be hidden in a quarter of an hour in a large
clothes-press, constructed in the wainscotting of
the room. A small cylinder, some brushes and
sponges in a pan ; a large, heavy cylinder

THE GOOSE WITH THE GOLDEN EGGS: 177

covered with cloth, which served as the press,
and a couple of jars of ink, together with the
necessary type and cases, formed the whole
apparatus.

As the Emperor Alexander, surrounded by
a brilliant staff of generals, chamberlains and
court officials, made the tour of the ball-room
at the Winter Palace a few hours later, finding
a gracious word for this officer, a flattering
sentence for that lady, a friendly smile for the
other devoted adherent, he stopped a minute
before Baron Kerezoff.

You have returned then ; your work completed
? '

Sire, as your Majesty says.'

Ah ! we must reward your labours. Mere
money payment does not at all express what a
sovereign feels for those who faithfully serve
him.'

Baron Kerezoff inclined his head still
lower.

And, arrived at the spot where, in an exquisite
toilette, the Baroness Kerezoff was attracting
glances respectively of admiration and
jealousy, the Czar again paused.

Evidently the Kerezoff couple where to enjoy

VOL. I. X

178 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

a social success if Imperial favour had any
meaning.

I need not ask after your health, madam e.
The air of Asia Minor evidently agreed with
you.' The aides-de-camp fell discreetly back,
and on Julie's rising gracefully from the depths
of the profound curtsey into which on the
approach of the Czar she had sunk, His Imperial
Majesty added in a lower tone : 

And your parure madame ? Did that, too,
come from Asia Minor . '

A sudden colour suffused Julie's face, even
through her rouge. Could some spy have
betrayed the secret of her diamonds, and the
end to which their proceeds had been devoted,
or was this a delicate hint that contractors and
engineers had bribed and plundered too
greedily ? Could the air of Asia Minor be an
euphemism for the stilling atmosphere of
Siberian mines, or were jewels too costly for
the wife of KerezofF? But without betraying
herself or her perplexity, Julie looked the Czar
gravely in the face as she said composedly : 

A railway, sire, boldly planned and faithfully
executed, carried from the sea of Azoff
safely beyond the Persian frontier, naturally
means diamonds for the engineer's wife, be he

'THE GOOSE WITH THE GOLDEN EGGS: 179

civil or military ; and these mean, in a minor
degree, respect for our nationality, and recognition
of your Imperial Majesty's power.'

Quite so ; only, Madame la Baronne, you
must allow me to take the liberty of recognising
your and your husband's loyalty, self-devotion
and voluntary exile by increasing the
contents of your jewel-case.'

Again a sweeping reverence, and the Emperor
had passed on his glittering way.

Could he have meant anything ? ' Julie
KerezofF murmured anxiously in the ear of her
partner, Prince Karishkin, as later that evening
they swam round the room to one of
Strauss's waltzes.

'- Chi lo sa 1 Only, the promised bracelets
must never go the same road as their predecessors.
By the Away, your last letter was
eloquent.'

It was written on the anniversary of my
sister's '

Chut ! Yes ! Algeria produces wonderful
vegetables. I am told that the asparagus is
gigantic'

It required nothing more. Julie understood
that they were to separate. She made a profound
curtsey. The Prince put out his hand

iso AUT C.SAR AUT NIHIL.

to lead her ceremoniously to a seat. When he
left her, he left ten thousand roubles in her
glove.

 It is for the Good Cause ! ' said Julie.

Chapter XI.

'EEGAED OF HONOUR AND MILD MODESTY.'

Graham, the painter par excellence of the
Thames, the Spenser of the brush,  as well
known in Oxford as in London, and vice verses
had not always been the prosperous individual
so popular in University quadrangles at the
time our story commences.

On the contrary, his had been, as our
friends across the Channel say, ' a stormy
youth.' He had had his chances, and in the
madness of his folly he flung them recklessly
away. He had not, perhaps, been exceptionally
wild, but it is to be hoped he had been exceptionally
obstinate. Anything like control he
especially resisted. Parents he had not, and the
tyranny of guardians he resented on purely
sentimental grounds. He could understand that
for a mother's sake, for a sister's happiness, fora
father's honour, sacrifices might be not only

1 82 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

possible but pleasant. But the dim and distant
fetish of his own problematical future self
he refused to set up, and absolutely and finally
declined to fall down and worship. 'I can
but enjoy myself as long as I am able,' he
would say in reply to his guardians' remonstrances.
' Who knows ? Perhaps I may be
killed in a railway accident before I am \q,-
and-twenty ! A young fellow I know got a
tap on the skull last Christmas that will certainly
save him from the ignominy of being
plucked in his " small." Or by fi five-and-twenty
T may have used up all my capacity for enjoyment,
or for utilising the advantages you are
laboriously laying in store for my future delectation.'
The guardians shook their wiser heads
in dumb dismay, and where not surprised when
an intimation reached them that Mr. Eustace
Graham's name had been taken off the books
of his college, and that that young gentleman
had disappeared into space.

Space is convenient. It saves postage-stamps,
pens, ink, and paper, and the wasted
effort of worthy persons in a demon strath ve
direction. For several years Mr. Eustace
Graham had only a local habitation for his
bankers. And this WcHS only in so far indicated

'HONOUR AND MILD MODESTY: 183

by their client directing that his letters and
dividends should be sent to thej!906' restante
of a given Continental city.

One effort, the last and the least productive
of good, it may be the most conducive to evil
results, the guardians, being men of honour,
made. Had they but known it they might
have saved him by silence. But on occasions
of the kind silence seems to give consent, and
to the conscientious looker-on assumes the
aspect of cowardice. Thus, in their honest
endeavour to save him from final destruction,
they sent him posting on the road to ruin.

Vast sums of money, deep groans, bewailing,
and lifting up of hands and eyes followed,
and at length the day came when guardianship,
even in its nominal form, was over, and the
last clue to young Graham's whereabouts was
lost.

In old Caster oni's Eoman studio his was a
familiar figure. Everyone loved this simple
frugal Englishman. If they smiled at his manifold
enthusiasms, his devotion to art, his reverence
for Italy, they loved him for his impulsive
frankness and his direct address, so unlike
(so they told themselves and each other) the
customary ceremonious coldness of his come

84 AUT C.SAR AUT NIHIL.

patriots. He theY himself into the heart of
Eome as unhesitatingly  to use his own jesting
simile  as Marcus Cur tins, and delighted in
the society of the ateliers where to a sympathetic
audience he would rave by the hour,
in his queer Italy-Britannic lingo, on the
glories of the Eternal City. Not content with
 doing ' the correct round of sight-seeing,
according to Murray or Baedeker, he would
seek out obscure traditions of obscurer corners,
teaching even the Romans themselves things
new to them, following up fresh tracks and
pursuing old traces in all sorts of forgotten
historic nooks, with an energy and an enthusiasm
that alike enchanted and amazed his
amiable but apathetically contented hearers.

The world, he declared, owed Italy a debt
the world could never pay ; and he would
pour out a flood of facts and fancies of Pagan
and of Christian Eome, of the Renaissance, of the
Decadence, so full of names and dates, of association
and quotation that from Cicero to Shelley,
from Messalina (and the little garden of the
house, now a pension, where the Eoman empress
tried on one occasion to commit suicide) to
Mrs. Browning, from Caesar to Keats, from the
Gracchus to Garibaldi, from St. Peter and St.

'HONOUR AND MILD MODESTY: 185

John, the tenth Leo and the seventh Gregory ;
and so od, through the splendid roll-call of the
painters and poets, whose names re-echo in
the hearts of all lovers of art and song, he
would carry his hearers from Eome to Padua,
from Ravenna to Florence, from Venice to
Naples, from Pisa to Bologna, from Mantua
back again to Eome. to break out in a
fresh place with fresh enthusiasm. No wonder
the simple, loving Italian nature felt at once
flattered and entertained, soothed and glorified,
by the enthusiasm and eloquence of this fiery
young Briton's whirl and rush of admiration.
But if he talked, being ravenous for information,
eager to learn, anxious lo know, he listened as
well as talked. With an almost childlike absorption
in the speaker's narrative he would hang
on old Casteroni's words, patiently enduring
the slow and quaint communications of a lifelong
familiar devotion to the history of Eome's
great, mysterious, all-embracing, all-including
heart. To recall the eager and ardent Graham
of this period, of his awakening to a new life,
would be to recall a queer unassorted jumble
of strange useless lore, the ' lumber ' of history ;
of quotations from obscure poets, of local
legends, side by side with the grand names

1 86 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

that must for ever make Eome great and
glorious ' in secular seculorum' as lie would
finish up his fit of enthusiasm, reverently doing
his bonnet in memory of those departed glories
which can never die.

But no one who saw the young fellow thus
would have recognised him as he went away
through the solitude of the splendid Eoman
night, when the moonbeams lay like liquid
silver, flooding the pavement, and the skies,
powdered with stars, were suffused with a pale
radiance, and luscious perfumes ascended like
the fragrant incense of Nature to heaven, and
the musical Silences, broken by the fall of
plashing waters in marble fountains, fell not
less upon the spirit than on the ear ; and the
vastness of the ruin wrought by Fate and the
littleness of man, and ,the nothingness of our
petty human passions, and the immensity of
God and Nature, smote his soul into a silent
adoration, and a dumb humility foreign to the
garrulous spirit of the day.

No one saw him or would have recognised
him as he sat in his little room, his face full of
blank bitterness ; and none of his friends would
have understood the dismay and disgust of his
mind, as the babblings of his meridian hours

'HONOUR AND MILD MODESTY: 187

came back to him ; and he not seldom cursed
himself for the crudest, earnest, shallowest of
impertinent chatterers, ignoramuses, and fools.
It was at this time, at once so rich and so
poor, so full and so empty, that Graham first
saw Hero and loved her.

It was fate, he said.

Casteroni, with his slow didactic utterances,
his innocent cunning and extraordinary simplicity
of vanity, was nevertheless a faithful
soul. By degrees he had told the young man
all Hero's story, and Graham, affecting a levity
for which he hated himself at the time, said,
lightly laughing : ' And so your wonderful Hero
turns out to be a very commonplace heroine,
after all ! '

 ' Say an angel rather, young man,' answered
the maestro in a tone of grave rebuke ;
and Graham mentally thanked him for his
severity.

It was the old story. Neither thought the
other cared, until an accident revealed that
both cared too much.

The knowledge was at once bliss and
anguish to Graham. To Hero  women are
different from men in these things  it was, at
first, only unalloyed bliss. The certainty of

i88 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

love seems, at first sight, so all-sufficing.
Doubt, torment, jealousy, fear, misgivings all
at an end. To love and be loved, what
vvoman could want more, and what true woman
does not desire as much ? Why look back ?
Why look forward ? The past had been a
blank, and who could foretell the future ? But
the present, the bright, happy, secure, peaceful
present,  that was theirs. They needed no
speech of one another, no caresses ; they had
but to look in one another's eyes, and read the
truth there ; to clasp one another's hands in
momentary greeting and farewell, to know that
faith and loyalty met palm to palm, beat pulse
to pulse. The vulgar considerations of the commonplaces
of life, by which the body-politic is-governed
and preserved from all excesses
(excess of sentiment amongst others), seemed
outside the conditions of their being. To the
woman, at any rate for a time, the contemplation,
the unquestioned absorption and rapture of
contentment would have seemed enough. Established
and strengthened by this immense fact,
upheld, sustained, and comforted by the support
of a wholly loving, wholly faithful human soul,
to Hero it seemed after the black and bitter past
that a woman for love's sake could be and do

'HONOUR AND MILD MODESTY: 189

ujSer and endure, all things without complaint.
Life itself changed at once from a sacrifice to
an offering. Duty became worship. It was as
though some buoyant principle had entered
into her, The ground grew elastic beneath
her tread. She herself seemed inspired, etherealised,
as one who, no longer condemned to
tread the dull earth in dreary routine, is lifted
by winged feet into another region, untrodden
save of the elect. Her beauty lost its only
drawback, a certain pallid shadow as of melancholy
or resignation, and became suddenly
resplendent, roseate, lit up with a strange inner
light, shining steadily in lambent fearlessness
and frankness out of her large trustful eyes.
She was, as it were, irradiated with unwavering
contentment. The kiss of love had
awakened the spell-bound woman in her, and
for the first time she realised the possibilities
of Life and Love. Love is wonder. Love is
praise. And with the revelation, to some
natures, there comes a sense of awe, a need
almost of solitude, where the votary may draw
apart from the world, and commune unquestioned
with the sacred secrets of his own spirit
and his own heart, and be still.

The ' recollection ' of piety has its parallel

Iso AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

ill the secret contemplation of an emotion not
less sacred, and equally of Divine inception.
But this attitude is not susceptible of indefinite
prolongation. Graham spoke ; the man, life,
reality, stirred within him, and with speech the
spell was spoken, the charm at an end. Explanation
and its attendant miseries, unavoidable
on either side, showed them both with
convincing finality that the position was not
tenable. In her anguish Hero turned to her
mother ; and Leonie silently laid her child in the
young mother's arms. In his misery Graham
found all society unbearable, and he disappeared
from Eome, leaving no access behind.
When, after three months' wandering on
foot, he returned, it was to find Mrs. Owen and
her daughter on the eve of starting for England.
He was shocked to see the change three months'
uncertainty and grief had wrought in Hero ;
and his own selfishness was revealed by the
havoc sorrow had made in the sad-eyed woman
he met. She did not pretend to have been
otherwise than wretched ; not because of their
separation, but because of his misery, rebellion,
possible resentment, and positive silence. Uncertainty
had told heavily, and there was little
need of words.

'HONOUR AND MILD MODESTY: 191

A line to my mother would have set my
mind at rest,' she said.

I thought of that. But it seemed such a
sham ; such a shabby, paltry, subterfuge. It
was you I wanted, and to you I ought to have
written.'

But if it had set my mind at rest ? '

He saw it novv% too late. He had almost
tried to persuade himself, when she sent him
away, that she did not care for his anger and
disappointment. He had called up in aid of
his mortification all the vulgar platitudes of
cheap commonplace as to the shallowness,
frivolity, poorness, and feebleness of women ;
but they had not consoled him. And now,
without a word of complaint on her part the
story of her love and of her sorrow was written,
all too plainly to be gainsaid, in her face.

It shall not happen again,' he said, ' come
what come may.' Then, catching her hands in
his : ' But don't expect more from me than I
promise I will not keep up a dilettante correspondence
with you, full of " elegant extracts,"
and pretend it is "friendship." I have no
understanding for the intellectual coquetries of
what people are pleased to call " literary friendships."
I love you. Hero, and I let you go



AUT C.-ESAR AUT NIHIL.

because my love shall never harm or injure
you  that I swear. But I love you as a man
loves the one woman in all the world to him.
I shall count my life as nought, as blank and
void, as dark and empty, and of no effect, so
honors it is passed away from you, and I will
never give up the hope that we may yet be one.
I will work and hope. When I can see you
without injuring you, I will see you. But I
could not, now I know you love me, spend hour
after hour and day after day in your society,
content with that. No man who really loved
a woman could. And I, at least, will not try
it. Fate takes you from me, but cannot separate
us. I ask, I can ask, no promise of you 
I dare not insult you with words of hope ; you
know my love, but you will not listen toit.
We can both work and wait. Silence
means effort and a goal  it may be distant  to
be attained. For your sake I love your mother
and reverence her for the saint she is. And
after you and your mother I love Eome. I
will not set idle tongues gossiping about you
here. I am gong to England. I shall not
see you often if I remain there, but I shall
see you sometimes  I shall write to you sometimes
 and I shall love you always. I know

'HONOUR AND MILD MODESTY: 193

you too well to ask you not to offend me
by any missis offers of sisterly regard  not to
outrage my love by any shallow compromise
unworthy of us both, impossible for either.'

They kissed and parted, and both were
loyal to the programme laid down. Hero
acknowledged the dual impossibility of loving
or forgetting ; her mother, who knew all the
disaster included in this fresh mistake, which
seemed to fill her daughter's cup of anguish to
the brim, could only deplore the evil chance
and admire Hero's courage, looking on with
silent pity. To her Graham told the truth ashe
dared not tell it to Hero.

How in his hot-headed, rash, insubordinate
youth he had given himself and his name to a
woman who had had the cunning to appeal to
the generous weakness of his character. He
believed her tale, and found, too late, that he
had committed an act of irreparable folly.
Instead of an innocent victim heartlessly jilted
by a f deathless lover, he had married a woman
whose calculations had for once been at fault 
a person of damaged reputation. Recrimination,
scenes of violence, debt, disgrace, and all
the disgust of disillusionment and a disorganised
domesticity, determined him upon leaving her.

VOL. I.

194 eut Cu-ear AUT NIHIL.

When, after months of humiliation, his lawyer
intimated that all debts were ]said, the amount
of capital left proved hardly sufficient to afford
a life of decent comfort for both. Two-thirds
of the sum were, under certain conditions,
settled on the woman ; and the man, once more
taking his life in his hands, went forth to
seek his fortune ostensibly unfettered, and yet
secretly manacled for life.

If I could have dreamed of winning Hero's
heart,' he said to her mother, ' believe me I
would never have taken one voluntary step in
that direction. Honour would have forbidden
it, common justice forbade it. I know her
pure, proud, stainless soul too well not to
shudder at the feelings with which she would
hear my story. Hers I know ; that is, as the
world knows it, but one needs only to look in
her face to speak her blameless.'

Poor Hero ! Poor child ! ' said her mother,
who saw only misfortune in all this, yet had
not one harsh word for the man, so winning in
his frank regret and love, beside her.

 The more I think of it, the more wonderful
it seems, and the more unworthy I feel.
That I should love her was inevitable, but that
she should love me ! But talking will do no

'HONOUR AND MILD Modesty 195

good. I promise you not to trouble her peace,
not to worry her with complaints. If you are
merciful  I only ask it in the name of mercy,
not in that of justice  as you are merciful you
will write to me now and then, and tell me how
she is, and what she is doing. . Tell me what
dress she wears ; how her hair is arranged;
whether she is singing much ; whether she is
well and cheerful. Alas ! that I cannot make
her happy.'

And so it had been. Mrs. Owen had a gift
amounting to clairvoyance in matters of character.


'No man with a voice like that could be a
villain,' she said ; ' it rings true. He is real
down to the last fault, folly, or failing in his
character.'

Then came the day when Martello's death
set Hero free. Hero herself remained silent.

To her mother Graham wrote in reply :
Your news makes the position of things almost
worse. She is free, and I am bond ! And how
bond? If I shrank, years ago, from the disgrace
of dragging my name through the dreary
details of the Divorce Court, judge with what
horror I should contemplate such degradation
in her pure eyes at the present time ! I confess


196 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

that I am behind my age. I do not understand
that spirit which, in the result achieved,
overlooks all other considerations. I am thin-skinned,
and the very lapse of time would tell
against me. I should be asked why I had
remained passive all these years, to open up the
case thus late in the day ? Motives would besought
and imputed ; her spotless name perhaps
dragged in. And then  supposing it possible
I could take such a step  with what countenance
could I offer her a name, wrested from
one unworthy to bear it, and already befouled
and disgraced and dragged through the mire ?
Do not hate me, if you can help it ; and yet, if
you knew all, you would pity me.'

It was thus no surprise to Graham when
the morning's post brought a letter to his
Oxford lodgings from Hero, to the effect that
her mother, who was feeling a little better since
her late attack, had expressed a wish to see
him the first time he was in town.

Within half an hour he was en route for
London.



CHAPTER XII.

THREE GENERATIONS.'

Mrs. Fitzgerald had taunted her son with his
Owen ' cultus, flinging in his face her opinion
that it was Hero (' old enough,' as with feminine
exaggeration, finely tempered with spite, she
observed, ' to be his mother ') he loved.

In truth she did not believe him to be ' in
love ' with either of the ladies, though it
pleased her to say so, ' what time indignation '
at his defection yet vexed her, ' as a thing that
is raw.' Maternal jealousy is not the least attractive
variety of the paled passion, and if Mrs.
Fitzgerald's form of the disease was rather of
the active than the passive variety, her son did
not suffer the less from the violent periodical
attacks to which lie was subject, and he
subjected.

Unconsciously, mother and son were tending
in the same direction, each, in fact, being

198 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

unaware of this modification of opinion, and,
as yet, but vaguely affected by the incipient
change. Combined with jealousy of Mrs.
Owen and Hero, Mrs. Fitzgerald suffered from
acute curiosity on their account. Too proud to
ask her son any direct questions, which might be
construed either as prying inquisitiveness or betaken
to betray a kindly interest, she contented
herself as a rule with flinging down assertions
to their discredit, so unlike the truth that Fitz
let the gauntlet of abuse lie where it fell, thinking
it not worth while to contradict such
extravagant absurdities as his mother wilfully
set forth.

But this masterly inactivity left the poor
lady very much in the dark, and gave her a
sense of baffled ignorance very unpleasant to a
person on the look out for any small item of
information germane to the subject in which a
lively interest is felt.

Casting about in her mind for means of
studying from the life these ' models of virtue,'
as she contemptuously characterised them to
her son, she decided that Bianca must be the
connecting ink, the means of rapprochement
between the two families. She could condescend
to the child, where her pride would not

'THREE generations: 199

permit lier to make advances to the mother and
grandmother ; and, whilst she was yet deliberating
on a means, the manner of which
should not be too palpably reconciliation, her
ends were served, by fate, after an altogether
unforeseen fashion. Fitz, after spending the
festive season ' tete-astute with his exacting
parent, betook himself, according to long
promise, to the Hudsonss for the first fortnight
of the New Year.

Bianca, in a few commonplace phrases, had
thanked Mm by letter for the bracelet he had
sent her. ' Just such an one as she had seen
and coveted in the arcades at Sprudelheim,
and with all good wishes for the coming year,
she was his affectionate cousin.'

Between the lines and in the handwriting of
the regulation epistle, Fitz seemed to see more
than the mere expressionless acknowledgments
of a well brought up young lady. The
writing was original, firm, and almost masculine
in its freedom from twirls, flourishes, and scoring.
The phraseology, if simple, was compact,
and the note itself was as carefully dated and
signed and the address as correctly given, as if
Fitzgerald had never heard of Hudson, or
Fairholt, or his correspondent before.

200 A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

Since Bianca was a little toddling thing
Fitz had loved and believed in her, at the same
time telling himself that she was unlike what
he should have chosen, had choice been possible,
for a sister or fiancee. Watching her narrowly,
he saw the germs of remarkable qualities in her
frank, girlish outspokenness. He could fancy
her, in one mood, going to the stake, sublime
in all the strength of virgin martyrdom; in,
another, defying opinion, convenience, prejudice,
and proclaiming a propaganda of personal
freedom, subversive of all that social ethics have
consecrated by custom. ' The daily round,
the common task,' he thought, would never be
enough for her. And, whereas her mother and
grandmother shrank from all publicity, and
thought notoriety the grave of the ' eternal
womanly,' this girl, with warm Italian blood
coursing through her veins, would, like another
Corunna, have gloried in coronation at the
Capitol. From her earliest childhood she had,
in a sense, shown a spirit of independence that
required very tender handling. She would
give her clothes, new as well as old, to little
beggar-girls in the street, and suffer punishment
a philosophic impenitent ; saying beneath her
breath : ' I know I was right. The poor girl

'THREE generations: 201

was nearly naked. The beggar child was in
rags.'

'But your mother could have given you
older clothes for her ; clothes more fitted to
her needs.'

Then / should not have given them. I
loved ray Sunday frock ; ' seeing the merit of the
gift in the sacrifice, not in the value of the gift
itself, with an insight or an intuition far beyond
her years. Hero's instinct taught her truly that
such a nature should be hampered with as few
commands and as few prohibitions as possible ;
that the child should feel its power to wound
and grieve as a mean and base privilege, the
exercise of which meant shame to all generous
and loins natures Thus she lived with her
mother and grandparents on a curious basis of
equality, taking her place at the family table,
sitting in a corner of the family room, wrapped
round and enveloped with feminine love and
care.

I have to love her for two,' Hero would
say to her own mother. ' Lie must never feel
the want of a father's love.'

And mine ? Ours ? Does that count for
nothing. Hero ? ' asked her mother jealously.

For everything, mother. But a heavy

202 A UT C.SAR A UT NIHIL.

weight of responsibility lies on my shoulders. I
took her from her father, and she must never be
able to say I robbed her of her birthright of love

You 51 re super-sensitive, you caricature
conscience. Did he love her? Would you
have had your child ruined by the sight of your
own degradation ? How could she have respected
you, hearing language of the sort we
both remember, addressed to you ? What
would she have grown up ? ' Mrs. Owen would
ask, with the indignation of common sense as
opposed to sentiment.

Yes, mother. You are right, and were it
all to do again, I should do as I have done. For
myself, I could have borne it, as I had borne it.
Use is second nature. But I had no right to
sacrifice the child. I was forced to rescue it.'

That is sensible. If Bianca were to disappoint
you, I could never forgive her.'

'You love Bianca, mother, and yet you
speak as though it were possible not to do so.'

'I am not blind. Martello's blood flows in
her veins. We cannot lose sight of that ; and
we must guard against the consequences.'

'And in mine there is also a mixture.
Yet you do not blame me for beg my father's
child. You are less than just to Bianca.'

'THREE generations: 203.

Ah ! in yours, my sweet Hero, I think it
is only a second better self that lives.'

And the pale, fragile lady kissed the eager
face of her daughter and drew it close to her
own, so like and yet so unlike.

If there was one point on which Hero was
more keenly sensitive than on another, it was with
regard to those years of enforced publicity, when,
in order that her child might be tenderly cared
for, warmly housed, softly bedded, anxiously
guarded, and carefully taught, the husbandless
wife had to conquer her shrinking pride and
timidity, and take that final, fatal step by which
a woman makes herself public property, defenceless
against public comment, and the target
of public criticism. Those few years of unceasing,
work, under a feigned name, had given
her the modest competence she now enjoyed,
and it was her warmest hope that Bianca might
never know that her mother had emerged from
the sacred shelter of hearth and home, a voluntary,
if fainthearted victim.

To her parents Hero had spoken once
for all, urgently, imperatively, on this point,
and they were not likely to betray her. Fitz
knew that it was not to be referred to in
Bianca's presence, and Graham sympathised

204 AUT C.SAR AUT NIHIL.

with her so entirely, that to him she had even
appeared to make light of her own susceptibilities,
fearing to give weight to his jealous
sensibility on all details touching her honour
and fair fame, and the guarded and shielded life
he thought right for women.

She still gave lessons at her own house, but
absolutely refused to go to the homes of her
pupils ; and thus, nearly every day of the
week, fair young girls attended by governesses,
or accompanied by their mothers, would emerge
from luxuriously appointed carriages, and trip
eagerly up the stairs to Hero's pleasant .


She called herself professionally Madame
Martello, and several songs of her composition,
which had become popular in London drawing-rooms,
bore the name Hero Martello on the title-page.


Bianca had continually passing before her
eyes the fairest models of well-bred grace and
refinement in these budding blossoms of English
wealth and aristocracy, just on the verge of
early womanhood, bearing the stamp of delicate
nurture in the unaffected grace and simple
manners. Not a few of these young girls worshipped
Hero with that kind of heroine worship

THREE Genera TIONS: 205

wliicli is common to the enthusiasm of feminine
youth : and the mothers were happy to find in
Madame Martello, instead of the clever, florid
foreigner many expected, a sweet and gracious
Englishwoman, whose manners and bearing had
that cachet of distinction which popular voice
declares cannot be produced under three generations
of culture.

The beautiful elderly French lady  seated
by the fire, knitting or reading, her soft white
hair covered by the rare lace that told its own
history, her pale, finely cut face, and thin
delicate hands proclaiming her gentle birth 
was an object of interest in the family picture ;
and, as time went on, and Bianca, from an
espiegle, lively child, shot up into a slender
gazelle-like girl, full of fearless animation, the
group gained in character, charm, and interest.


Bianca pursued her studies, drew, wrote
themes, and translated modern languages in
the room where the sinoino'-lessons were even ;
and many were the invitations proffered and
declined, many the efforts at nearer acquaintance
pleasantly urged and as steadily resisted
by Hero. Of late Bianca had appeared to
resent her mother's persistent refusal of the

2o6 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

attentions offered ; and the day came when, with
her accustomed outspokenness, she expressed
herself on the subject : 

'Why did you refuse Lady Fortescue's
invitation, mother ? '

I did not wish to accept it,' Hero answered
simply.

But this was not the answer Bianca wanted.

But I wish you had accepted it,' she
said ; and then, her mother not noticing her
emphasis, she added, interrogatively : ' Why not ?
Is there any reason ? '

Do you question your mother's judgment ? '
Mrs. Owen asked, severely. It had not escaped
Iter that Bianca was no longer inclined to take
her mother's decisions on trust.

No. I only question her motive. Without
knowing that I could not, I should have no
right, to question her judgment.'

What an answer for a girl to make! Hero
thought, with dismay.

Your mother owes you no explanation of
her conduct, or her motives either. Sufficient
that your grandfather and I, who know them,
know and approve both.'

These insubordinate symptoms troubled the
grandmother, whose heart was all her child's.

THREE GENERA TIONS: 207

She loved Bianca dearly, but she did not love
her blindly, and she loved Hero better, and
would have saved her from disappointment with
her heart's blood, had such vicarious salvation
been possible.

You could sue him in the Divorce Court,'
Mr. Owen had said in the old days of his son-in-law,
with bustling eagerness of assertion,
and fussy vindictiveness. ' Alimony would be
granted, and a sum for the child's education,
d him ! '

Xo father. Why should I disgrace my
child ? '

Disgrace ! Fiddlestick ! Let disgrace fall
where it sticks. Who would think of Martello
when Bianca was marriageable 1 '

'Bianca might. People might fling her
father in her face. As it is our wrongs remain
private, and no one has the right to insult us
with them.'

Insult ye ? ' shouted Mr. Owen, his
Hibernian blood coming out in his accents of
scorn ; ' it would be once, and not again, I can
tell you, for Garry Owen's not the man to stand
by and see a lady insulted ! '

Having taken the child, and gone without
leave, I have no right to ask him for anything,'

2o8 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Hero said. ' Besides, you know as well as I do
that he has holding to give, and that an in junction
such as you speak of would be mere wastepaper.'


Seeing how much more Hero coukl make
by her superb voice than the impecunious
Martello would be likely to allow her, Mr.
Owen let the subject drop, saying that women
must always have the last word ; but when
Bianca's ]precocious intelligence warned her
mother that it was time for her to remodel the
course of her existence, if she would have the
girl remain a stranger for ever to the publicity
she herself hated, Mr. Owen's indignation knew
no bounds.

'Throwing away splendid emoluments, and
the chances of a brilliant marriage for some
sentimental absurdity about this brat of a child,
that ought to be lapping porridge in an attic ! '
he cried angrily, and perhaps not altogether
unreasonably.

Marriage had ceased to be a possibility in
Hero's life. Martello was dead. She was free.
But her heart was as irrevocably ]pledged as if a
bishop]) and unlimited incumbents and assistant-curates
had combined, at the height of a
London season, to tie the holy bands in (he

'THREE Generations 209

most fiisliioiiable of matrimonial knots with the
aid of several dozen bridesmaids.

'We shall be no burthen to you, papa,'
Hero answered, following the train of her own
thoughts rather than reflecting on the parental
liberality. Her little independent capital,
derived from her unknown uncle, de Courte-ville,
she thought, would one day be Bianca's
marriage portion, and she determined on working
as liard as health and home duties would
permit, so that her child might never feel she
had achieved happiness at her mother's expense.

Hero received pressing invitations to sing,
during the season, at private parties. But to
mount grand staircases, find her way across
gilded saloons, feel herself an object of half-contemptuous
curiosity to the well-dressed but not
necessarily well-bred crowd, and then fight her
unattended way back to her modest brougham, a
paid servant, where her birth and breeding no
less than her beauty, education and manners
entitled her to an undoubted equality, was an
ordeal that Hero's philosophy could not' calmly
contemplate.

In former times her mother had accompanied
her wherever she went ; but Mrs. Owen's
age and the state of her health forbade this
VOL. I. r

dio AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

now: and it was years since Hero had been
seen, except by the ladies who knew her in her
own house. Fitz was, as his aunt had said, as a
younger brother to her. He watched these
two good women with a reverent admiration
and pity that lent an affection to his tone, of
which he himself was unaware. Was Bianca,
too, to be sacrificed, he asked himself, as these
had been? two out of the thousands of social
(women) martyrs of whom the world knows
nothing ? When the time came for Bianca to
make her choice, was it to be left to these two
weak, unworldly women to judge whether the
man she elected to honour was worthy of her
young unsullied soul? What do women, at
best, know of men, their manner of life, their
pursuits and private occupations ? Women,
happily married, need know nothing ; their
husbands, the fathers of their girls, know, yet
scarcely care to regale their Vives with backstairs
histories of other men's lives.

Fitz could not trust Mr. Owen with such a
momentous matter as Bianca's future. An
inquiry as to the man's income, and the assurance
that he was not a bigamist, would suffice this
gay optimist ; and Bianca, allowed to follow the
first impulses of an ignorant predilection, might

'THREE generations: 211

fall a worse victim than either her mother or
grandmother had done.

Fitz told himself that he would not stand in
the girl's way, nor seek to establish anj understanding
with her before others were in the
field ; but he would watch over her, and, God
willing, eventually win her for his own.

At Sprudelheim he had been much exercised
on the score of Bianca's independent
friendships, but had not seen his way to any
sort of interference. Hero, occupied with Mrs.
Owen, seemed to dread confining the girl to an
invalid atmosphere ; and life at a watering-place
is always a more or less free-and-easy
state of existence, abandoned perforce when
people return to the routine duties of home.

Hudson's undisguised admiration opened up
new possibilities in Fitz's eyes, and he set a guard
upon himself lest he should be tempted by his
secret feelings to betray how deeply he was
interested in the issue of the young man's suit.

Above all things he dreaded lest Mrs. Owen
or Hero should quote him as a mentor or censor,
thus placing him in a ridiculous and unpleasant
light in the young gull's eyes, and he grew
doubly careful lest unwary criticism should
betray him to his ruin.

p 2

212 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

Still, he was too clear-sighted, too fond of
Bianca, too jealous of and for her, too much a
man, and a lover, not to be keenly alive to the
fact that she had made an immense stride in
independence of character; whilst, he noted
with regret, that of preference she sought the
society of ' foreigners,' declaring English people
to be as stiff' and wooden-jointed as Dutch dolls,
incapable of enthusiasm, and intensely and 
selfish.

Now, that he was going down to Fairholt,
his heart a little misgave him. What if,
favoured by tete-astute drives and walks, and
smiled upon by kind Mrs. Hudson, the young
people should have fancied they were indispensable
to one another's happiness, and be even now
on the brink of an engagement and consequent
matrimony ?

Hudson met him at the station,

You will be awfully dull old fellow,' he
said, ' the frost shuts up everything.'

It will not shut me uj). Don't you
skate ? '

'Father. I am teaching Bi Miss

Martello.'

Bianca greeted her cousin with the same easy
unconscious friendliness that she had shown

'THREE generations: 213

him since her babyhood. 'How are they at
home ? ' she asked. ' I wish the motherkin had
come with you. She almost said she would.'

No ; she cannot leave my aunt.' Then,
after a pause, 'I fear my aunt is very ill,
Bian(;a.'

But the young are never apprehensive.
Life to them is one vast, bright, shining
possibility. Besides, there were reasons, undreamt
of in Fitz's philosophy, why Bianca did
not wish to talk of her grandmother.

Fitz, as was but natural in a lover, watched
the young people, without discovering anything.
Bianca assumed a rather dictatorial tone to her
youthful adorer, and there was too much
bandying of jests for any serious love-making,
so that Fitz never felt himself to be the ' third
wheel on the waggon.'

He also watched for the appearance of his
bracelet, as a signal of his lady's favour, but
though one or two evening festivities afforded
the opportunity for adornment, Bianca neither
wore nor alluded to his gift.

Two slight matters set Fitz thinking.

The day before lie was to leave Fairholt,
Bianca came down late to breakfast.

'Pass this letter to Miss Martello,' said

214 AUT CAESAR Au NIHIL.

Hudson, laying a thin, long, billy-scented
envelope on an empty plate.

Fitz could not help seeing that it was a
foreign letter. The peculiar niggling, characterless
handwriting, the enormous monogram, and
the variegated stamps, told as much as that.

From mamma ? ' asked Bianca, at the end
of the table.

'No. A foreign letter. A Eussian letter.'

And Bianca's pale, clear face became
suddenly crimson.

By Jove ! those Eussians know everything.
How the deuce could they know you
were here? ' Hudson exclaimed, in his boyish
way, not looking at Bianca's face. She put the
letter down, unopened, beside her plate.

'You correspond with Madame de Kere-
off?'

Yes.'

Her face was now as pale as it had before
been red.

Fitz looked at her as he spoke.

Why,' Hudson exclaimed, ' what a fool I
am ; of course, I had forgotten, or I should have
remembered.'

What ? ' asked Fitz. For the ingenious
youth, suddenly catching Bianca's gaze fixed

'THREE generations: 215

angrily upon him, ni his confusion fell into a
fresh error, then suddenly stopped short.

Why, Sprudelheim  and  and  the Kere-
zoffs, of course.'

But Fitz knew there was something more
in the matter than met the eye, though he
abstained from pursuit of a disagreeable topic.

Bianca left her letter beside her plate as
though it were of no importance ; but she was
short and snappish to Hudson all day, so that
her cheerful swain became at length crushed
and dispirited, and took himself off for a
solitary ride on pretext of some neglected
social duties in the neighbourhood.

With his disappearance Bianca's spirits rose.
She laughed and chatted with Fitz, and gaily
challenged him to a game at billiards.

She exerted herself to please him ; was
playful and sweet and saucy by turns; and
that, in such a gracious, maidenly manner that
the young man began to think he had been
mistaken all along, and that the cause of her
listlessness and pre-occupation lead been purely
physical.

Happy and hopeful, and encouraged by the
girl's gay, good humour, he ventured on a few
words more nearly approaching tenderness

2i6 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL,

than any he had ever yet addressed to her. It
is never a very graceful thing for the donor to
alice to a gift which the recipient has ignored.

Fitz felt this, but at the same time he
felt something else yet more strongly ; and
thus, after confessing himself beaten at chess
and draughts, which had followed the billiards,
he said : ' If my conqueror will stoop to a
gracious act, defeat will lose all its bitterness.'


A conqueror can always afford to be
gracious.'

Then, Bianca, oblige me ; show me by
wearing my bracelet at the party this evening
that you really liked it, and have some regard
for the giver.'

In his eagerness and anxiety he laid a
hand on her wrist, as though in fancy he saw
the bracelet already there.

But she shook his touch off' angrily.

I cannot oblige you,' she said, offence and
embarrassment unmistakable in every tone.

Have I offended you, Bianca ? If so, I
am sure I beg your pardon.'

It is granted.'

But he noticed the offence implied was not
denied.

'THREE generations: 217

But have I ojQTended you ? '

'No.'

Then why will you not wear my bracelet ?
I bought it for you the day you admired it so
much at Sprudellieim.'

There was an awkward pause. He expected
her to relent. She did not look at
him.

I think you ought to tell me if I have
offended you,' he said, not without dignity.

I am not offended  only '

Only ? '

Well, if there is to be all this fuss about it,
I had rather you had not given it to me.'

Is it I who have made a fuss ? I think
you are unjust Bianca, and ungenerous. Perhaps
I was wrong to allude to it at all. But I
meant no harm. Between cousins there should
be no false pride. If I have offended you I
heartily beg your pardon.'

He hoped that in reply she would say she
had not meant to hurt him, and that she would
wear his bracelet that evening in token of her
unaltered friendly feeling. But nothing was
further from Bianca's thoughts.

'You do not answer, Bianca  you say
nothing ?

2i8 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Well  of course it was very kind of you,
and I dare say it seems capricious, but  to tell
the truths I hate jewellery ! '

Then your note meant nothing ? '
It meant that you were very kind. How
could you know I had altered my mind ? I
mean to be like mamma. She never wears
jewellery.'



Chapter XIII.

THE STREET OF SAIiS'TED JOSEPH.'

It has been said that every man, however prosaic,
has his ideal. Great men have been
found after their death to have formulated
touchingly modest personal aspirations. ' Mine,'
says the poet, ' be the cot beside the hill,'
and the companionship of ' Lucy, in her russet
gown and apron blue.' These conditions fulfil
all he desires from the point of view of female
society, or accomplished destiny. Eoyal personages
long, or think they long, for the
equality of friendship. ' Such a new thing for
her to dare to be unguarded in conversing
with anybody,' wrote a lady of her Court,
referring to the ncAvly-found married happiness
of the fair young Maiden Queen, whose girlhood
had already felt the ' lonely splendour ' of
the Crown. And whether we take the respectable
figure of Farmer George and his little

220 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

frugal German spouse, partaking of a boiled
leg of mutton and turnips, and studying the
profound problem of the apple-pie ; or the
graceful form of Marie Antoinette acting the
milkmaid, or the shepherdess at the Little
Trianon ; or her lethargic spouse doing
locksmith's work at Versailles, we may be sure
we have stumbled upon a very common phase
of the ' undress ' aspirations of the great ones
of the earth.

To that conspirator whose obvious day is
passed in official uniform ; to the Nihihst, disguised
as the colonel of a regiment, the aide-de-camp
of the parade-ground, the chamberlain
of the palace, or the admiral of the fleet,
whose spurs and sabre, galloon and golden
key, are the insignia of present safety, midnight
meetings, mysterious watch words, dangerous
signals and deathly risks may afford
sufficient contrast to the pipe-clay and trappings,
the red-tape and buckram of the regulation
routine life. To many a man whose existence
is bounded by the narrow confines of the
barrack or the bureau, the alternative of
desperate enterprises and possible ruin may
afford overwhelmingly attractive features, from

'THE STREET OF SAINTED JOSEPH? 221

the mere force of contrast. Thiip, at any rate
for many years, it had been with Melon.

Born of many generations of bureaucracy
and mihtarism, educated in the most strenuous
traditions of Imperial, the descendant of a
long-suffering, loyal and Conservative family,
his outward tenue had all the inexpressive
passivity of scrupulous officialism. His spare
figure, colourless face, pale eyes and negative
countenance succeeded to admiration in conveying
the vaguest of impressions. Long
habits of reticence, caution and silence had
given him an unobtrusive, retiring manner,
not devoid of dignity ; and although he conversed
not unwillingly on all except political
subjects, after several hours spent in his society
it was but a shadowy and uncertain picture of
his mind that acquaintances carried away from
the rencontre.

Baron Mellin has the power of extracting
all colour from conversation,' Madame de
KerezofF declared to Hero, in one of her, not
infrequent, moods of expansiveness.

Perhaps we weary him with our frivolities
and platitudes ; perhaps it is our English chatter
which appears to him characterless,' Hero
replied. ' I often blame myself for falling

222 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

back so selfishly upon our mother-tongue ; but
I forget, when with you  you speak it so well 
that it is not yours. Still, it must be very dull
for Baron Mellin, though perhaps fortunate for
us, that he possesses this power of abstraction.'


Perhaps,' answered Julie, looking at Hero
absently as she echoed her words. And after
a minute she added : ' I adore ignorance. My
parrot's tongue can patter any language in the
vernacular of lady's-maids and nurses. I confess
it is a comfort to me to know I can rattle
on in English and not disturb Monsieur de
Mellin's philosophic reflections. My indiscretions
 conversational indiscretions, of course, I
ijiean  would be too much for him.'

Strange as it may appear, Mellin's ideal,
hereditary hatreds notwithstanding, had always
been the safe, sheltered and dignified life of an
English gentleman. A few paternal acres,
flocks and herds, milk and wool, pastoral pleasures,
' study and ease together mixed,' Virgin
joys, Horatian culture, and a sympathetic
friend or two at his modest board, seemed to
him the summum bonum of earthly bliss. No
bad ideal. Lovely indeed, and peaceful when
compared with the obscure anxieties of his

THE STREET OF SAINTED JOSEPH.' 223

dual existence, and sufficiently impossible of
realisation to give added beauty to the pictured
joys of his romance.

Hereditary hatreds, equally notwithstanding,
his ideal woman was the Englishwoman. The
grande dame of St. Petersburg society, educated
in all the traditions of Muscovite veneer,
the thin French polish of exotic manners and
the superficial accomplishments which scarcely
disguised the vacuity and poverty of the
uncultured nature beneath, was scarcely so
repellant, in her negative fine lady's and
intellectual idleness, to him, as the emancipated
female, the modern product of Nihilism and
advanced ideas.' The one at least retained
something of her womanhood, and appealed to
you through her very weakness and insufficiency
; whereas the other, with her ' billy-cock '
hat, her ulster, her pince-nez her close-cropped
hair, stiff* shirt collar, manly cravat, whip or
walking-stick, bold stare, and independent
carriage  like that of an impudent boy whose
swagger needs a severe lesson  caused Mellin a
shudder of revulsion which it needed all his
practised powers of dissimulation successfully to
disguise.

Yet the ideal Englishwoman whose image he

224 eut CSAR AUT NIHIL.

fondly, if silently and hopelessly, cherished,
was not the insipid beauty of 'Keepsake'
memory, nor the preposterous blue-veiled and
be-regretted ' Miladi ' of French comedy and
romance; still less the angular ' Meet' who
screeches 'shocJciiigV in season and out of
season, through unrelenting decades of French
plays and novels ; but the English woman,
companion and friend of the English man;
such as our Chaucer, Surrey, Wyatt, Shakspeare,
Jonson, Milton ; and, in later days, our
Wordsworth, Coleridge, Keats, Shelley and
Tennyson have painted her. Sweet, spirited
women, gentle, generous ladies, modest
maidens, fresh and fair, and fragrant as the
country of their birth.

The hard actualities of life had left Mellin
but little time for thoughts of love ; yet even
during a six weeks' stay in England, towards
the end of the London season, two weeks in
town and four in the shires, had offered him a
fair procession of what England has best to
show in the way of worth and beauty. That
had, in sooth, been ' a dream of fair women,'
with an all too sudden awakening. The
bright vision of homes of peace and wealth,
of refinement and comfort ; of mothers, scarcely

'THE STREET OF SAINTED JOSEPH: 225

less beautiful than their daughters  fathers and
sons equally frank, kind, honest and true. The
memory of such an experience did not pass
away. It abode with him, and the tender
tones of colour and sound remained unaffected
by the chill touch of Time  a cherished recollection.
A proof of the man's strength of character
of that character which the superficial might
have labelled ' negative '  lay in the fact that
he had positive resolution sufficient never to
refer, in Hero's or Bianca's presence, to that
paradisaical past, the one romance of his life 
impossible, beautiful. When at Sprudelheim,
he was introduced to Hero by Madame de
KerezofT, though years had elapsed since he
last saw her, and then under a different name,
his long habits of observation enabled him to
recognise her at once. For reasons of his own
he determined not to refer to that episode,
much as it would have enlarged their subject
of conversation, but to let things take their
course.

Life, in Russia, is bounded by large horizons
Once outside St. Petersburg or Moscow, 01
any other town which the traveller may
choose to recall or imagine, vast, limitless

VOL. I. Q

226 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

plains stretch away in level uniformity, monotonous,
melancholy, immense.

The solitary peasant, the lonely shepherd,
gazes up at you from his sheepskins or his
toulouse, and, in an accent pitched to a minor
key, wishes you in soft, pathetic inflections
a wondering ' Good-day.' Why should you
put yourself to the expense and inconvenience
of travel, expose yourself to the extortion of
innkeepers, the heat of frowsy hostelries,
cheating moulins, and exorbitant charges ? And
vaguely commiserating you,  whom he reckons
one of the great ones of the earth, in your
pictured difficulties,  the herdsman gazes in
your face, prince or potentate though he dreams
you to be, with the sympathy and pity of a
gentle brotherly soul. In the villages you
pass through, it may be that now and again
some Eussian Volkslied falls upon the ear.
Weeks afterwards you will find yourself
haunted by its pathetic rhythm, by its yearning
refrain, and you will wonder why this half-barbaric
song has the power to absorb you,
and touch you by its appealing, plaintive
melody. It is as though some unknown spirit
of fraternity stretched its arms forth across the
dreary miles of waste and wild, murmuring :

THE STREET OF SAINTED JOSEPH: 227

I, too, despite our widely-differing experiences,
am thy brother. From the deep forests and
silent plains, from Siberian mines and Tartar
steppes, from the dim Caucasian peaks, from
Aryan myths and empires of utmost Iii,
shrouded in the mists of immemorial ages, I
call to thee, across Time and Space, out of the
depths of my unheeded century-old solitude ! '
In this vast, mysterious country, where all
the Russia, and each, has its qualifying adjective,
where the styles and titles of Caesar read
like the projected geographical course of a
college term on an extended scale, the very
impossibility of things suggests the possible.
Vigorous ice-bound nature broods above
more ardent aspirations than warm Italian
skies ever ripened into an easy enthusiasm,
and, beneath a winding-sheet of snow, men's
blood burns in fierce revolt, frozen though for
the nonce it be into seeming silence. Under
gigantic conditions, to count the pigmy items
is impossible. Temperate or torrid zones may
reckon with fate, but the frigid must overleap
half a world, and trust to chance or fate for
the result. There is a point at which cold becomes
heat ; and the frost-bitten sufferer seems
to endure the torments of the fiery furnace.

Q 2

228 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

In such a condition was Eiissia at the time
of our story.

The snow-clad volcano might burst forth in
destructive eruption at any moment, and those
who knew how thin was the crust of the crater,
were prepared to see the signal flames, like
those of some giant watch-fire on a mountain
peak, shoot up into the midnight skies, the
token amidst surrounding silence, obscurity,
and gloom, of a far-spreading conflagration.
In old times, it took a hundred horses and
seven days to travel from St. Petersburg to
Moscow. To-day the journey is performed by
train in fifteen hours, and your fellow travellers
will probably be as ' mixed ' as the company
to be met in an American ' car.'

The very manner in which the railroad
connecting the two capitals came to be made,
is typical of the country and its rulers.
Nicholas, the enemy of all progress, looked
with an unfavourable eye upon the innovation
of steam. His councillors were anxious so to
make the iron way that it shoukl prove a
financial success, and to that end endeavoured
to construct the line so that it should include
several important towns in the system. The
plans were laid before the Emperor. He listened

THE STREET OF SAINTED JOSEPH: 229

silently to the explanations of the experts, and
then taking a ruler he drew a line in pen and
ink between St. Petersburg and Moscow,
remarking : 'The railroad will either be made
on that line, or not at all.' His officials,
knowing the nature of the man, knew also
that remonstrance would be worse than useless.
The line was eventually made as the Emperor
had ruled it should be, and remains a monument
of his unbending will to the present hour.

And yet, on the eve of the railway epoch,
the Eussian peasant would have thought the
results of steam, could they have been ]hade
clear to his limited intelligence, far more impossible
than the impossibilities of to-day  be
they what they may  appear to eyes bent on
a horizon still wider than that of the bonded
serf, watching and waiting.

The eyes of a goddess,' Monsieur de
Mellin had said to himself, as Hero turned
her level gaze upon him on the terrace of the
hunting Schloss. He had said the same Avoids
years ago in a London drawing-room.

There had been a concert that night at the
Marquis of Matlock's, and, together with his
ambassador, Mellin had gone to the palace
of that patron of the fine arts, in order that

230 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

he might see something of London society in
all its various and varied shades and grades.
The Marquis, in his character of host and connoisseur
of beauty, had spoken a few gracious
words to Hero after each of her songs, and
the Sovereign had deigned to commission him
with Her approval, as the singer withdrew
after her last aria. Mellin thought Hero more
beautiful than the most beautiful of the titled
ladies present ; and when at his request the
Eussian Ambassador presented him to her, the
large, serious gaze of her earnest eyes seemed to
the young Eussian's imagination to be illumined
with the wisdom of the typical Pallas Athens.

'" We know that, for us, the possible has
ceased to exist,' Julie had said to him in the
Kur Garden at Sprudelheim ; and, tacitly, he
had recognised the truth of her epigram, and
knew that he could only ' find his reckoning '
in the impossible.

He acknowledged no other merest or
claim than the interests and claims of ' the
Cause.' For these he had not scrupled to work
on Bianca's undisciplined nature, to take advantage
of her ductile enthusiasm, to profit,
under high-sounding maxims, by the spirit of
intrigue that ran in the southern blood which

THE STREET OF SAINTED JOSEPH: 231

was her inheritance. Base, ignoble ends could
never have swayed the girl to the course she
now blindly took. For the good of Humanity
at large ! What a programme ! What purity
of principle, what impersonal aspirations !
What lofty aims and ends ! How free from
any claim of merit, or expectation of applause !

The Association wanted money. For money,
Mellin would have sacrificed Bianca as ruthlessly
as ever Spartan socialist, malting proverbial history
for later civilisation, would have devoted
the single life to the perpetuation of the type.
Hudson's money was as good as another's.
Hudson was young and enthusiastic ; a good
fellow ; bon enfant. Why should not two young
people be happy together, as well as, better
than, apart ? Besides, the old people desired it ;
it was plain to see that if  with the reserve
peculiar to their race  they would not make,
yet, neither would they mar, this match. Bianca
once implicated, the mother would follow, and
thus three times d'elite to say nothing of good
English money, gained for ' the Cause.'

Yet something in Bianca's ardent gaze,
something in her girlish enthusiasm, disturbed
Mellin's equanimity. ' Her eyes are like her
mother's  yet how unlike ! ' he said to himself,

232 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

and became colder and colder to his young
disciple. ' No matter, she was but a tool,' he
told himself, with that latent savagery of
nature which Napoleon declared that he who
scratched the Euss, might count on finding in
the Tartar beneath.

It pleased Mellin  there seemed a sort of
compromise with conscience, or what stood
for that inconvenient monitor in his moral
vocabulary  it pleased him to be harsh and
short and dogmatic in his utterances, and as
little sympathetic as possible in his acknowledgments
to the girl. He had declared Bianca
was Julie de KerezofF's convert. He would
none of her. Julie must send her the ghastly
charm,' the sign and token of her affiliation
to their ' Society.' ' It was a farce,' as he said
to himself with a sneer, but ' a convenient one,'
especially where women were concerned ; and
it was not his fault if, on the wild hill side
the Sprudelheim novice l:iad made her profession,
taking her vows in the very teeth, as it
were, of warning, harshness, and discouragement.


In all things, not consciously paltering with
honour, but finding some strange, insincere
satisfaction in the line he had adopted, Mellin

THE STREET OF SAINTED JOSEPH: 233

almost forced the girl to take the initiative,
throwing obstacles in her way and increasing
her ardour, in proportion to the difficulties he
raised. If they walked fast, it Alas that she
walked fast. If they outstripped their companions,
it was by her desire. She should ask
him for the ' token.' He would not give her
the accolade ; he would not instruct her in the
shibboleth. She should beg him to put the
grim badge about her neck. He would originate
nothing. She should take the oath as a
volunteer, not as a conscript. It was with
something almost like contemptuous tenderness
that he had on that occasion turned to Hero,
offering her his arm down the hill. She must
indeed be weak and blind not to suspect what
was going on beneath her very eyes. The
thought of her maternal weakness did not,
however, dispose him more kindly towards his
younger dupe. Imagination painted circumstances
in which this spoiled child might become
his rival and his enemy.

He divined instinctively something of the
unwillingness with which Hero had accepted
his arm. He had ventured on a sufficiently
handle allusion, and had not felt sorry that the
power to wound was granted him, since the

234 eut Caesar AUT NIHIL.

privilege to woo was denied. Then he had
taunted her (he who had suborned her child)
with her inability to rule. ' You ask as a
favour that which you should demand as a
right,' he had said ; " you weill always be the
victim of coarser, of more selfish natures.'

Later on, if she should reproach him (and
women, he told himself, were unreasonable
enough, as a rule, to attribute their blindness
and folly to the fault of others rather than to
their own want of prudence and foresight), he
could appeal against her wrath to facts, and
show her that he had warned her, and prove
her conclusively to be the victim of her own
confiding folly.

As the pale, hard light of the reflected snow
fell upon Mellin's ashen countenance, the cold
mockery of the Spring sun was scarcely less
cruel than the expression of his pallid face.

A man who has no ties to bind hun to his
fellow-men, who declares that impersonal objects
fill out his personal life, must, for all his tall-talk
of universal brotherhood, of general good and
public ends, grow narrow and one-sided. The
emotional part of his nature starved to death,
and the remembrance of personal sympathies a
reproach and a shame to him in his own eyes.

THE STREET OF SAINTED JOSEPH: 235

he is at best but an imperfect specimen of a
human being, incapable of the noblest passions
and sublimest enthusiasms of humanity.

It was part of his misery that he could trust
no man. As for women, if they were less selfish
than men, they were more impulsive and
less discreet ; if more enduring and more devoted,
less logical and less to be depended on.
Things in the outer world had baffled all his
combinations ; things m the inner world, of
plotting and conspiracy, had been far from
satisfactory. Trade was, all over the world,
bad. Money was scarce, and without the base
medium the ineffectual fires of enthusiasm must
pale inevitably, and 'the Cause' languish and
lapse. Men, in the outer world of commerce
and enterprise, were congratulating themselves
on the lull that seemed to have come over the
more turbulent spirits ; and in the inner world
of politics and diplomacy, of state-craft and
governments, there seemed a blind security ;
whilst the divisions, heart-burnings, and disunion
amongst the sworn fraternity portended
a weakening of forces and threatened discomfiture
to the Brotherhood.

It was but seldom that Mellin ventured, by
daylight, into the Street of Sainted Joseph, but

236 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

the approach of Easter gave a pretext for some
stir in the interests of his supposed trade as a
huckster travelling with charms, illuminated
cards, Easter eggs, and chap-books into distant
outlying districts, where the peasantry were
eager customers for the pedlar's wares.

The residuum of the population of all great
cities is pervaded by a strong family likeness,
whether, in ' scum,' it rises to the surface of
detected crime, or sinks, like lees, to the bottom,
after the custom of unrecognised ' dregs.'
It shifts according to the wash of circumstance ;
and thus, in its ebb and flow, affords a safe
refuge for such members of society as, for
cogent reasons, do not prize the advantages of
a  local habitation and a name.'

In a neighbourhood where the social grade
of the inhabitants had been only a degree
higher or a shade less humble, Melhn and
his friends could not have found so safe an
asylum as the garret in the Street of Sainted
Joseph afforded them.

Even the smallest of shopkeepers are conservative
in instinct, and it is the pride of
a petty tradesman to point to his little shop
as having been his father's and grandfather's
before him, and (the Haussiiann of the future

THE STREET OF SAINTED JOSEPH: 27

permitting) the heritage of the Ghilclren's children
who shall come after.

Alius the neighbours, if by a stretch of
courtesy the' may so be called, who inhabited
the garrets and cellars of Sainted Joseph's Street,
when last Mellin and his friends where seen
there, had now all disappeared. The cobbler,
his spouse, and the little cobblers had migrated
to the great leather factory near the
quays, Adhere work, less precarious than patching
the foot gear of moKJiks, was to be found ;
the young seamstress overhead had gone to her
last resting-place ; the German fiddler had
found permanent employment at one of the
minor theatres ; and if a few porters, wharfingers,
and carters still remained, why, they
were men whose daily labour was done at a
distance from the kennels where they slept,
and who, coming home after a day's hardwork,
were little disposed to watch their neighbour's
doings or to busy themselves with their
neighbour's concerns.

The ' International,' that word of terror,
after years of secret existence startled Europe
from its lethargy of false security, when it
came to resound, as it presently did, upon the
public ear.

238 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

By the irony of Fate the epoch of the
Peace Palace,' with all its ' fruitful rivalries,'
was the era of the introduction of the 'International
' into England. The bronze-workers
and gravers of Paris made the ' Exhibition ' a
reason and excuse for their trip to ' perfidious
Albion.' They wanted to see how far they
were entitled to measure and mate themselves
with the skilled artisans and decorative workmen
of other countries ; but they also wanted to
hear something of the English system of strikes
and locks-out, of work and wages, of factory-schools
and ten-hours' labour bills, of co-operative
stores, of demand and supply, of trades-unions,
and the relation of capital and labour.

At that epoch Mellin had also been in
London, and though his time had been chiefly
spent in scenes far distant from workshops and
artisans' clubs, he had, in virtue of his affiliation
with certain secret societies, been admitted
to the debates of the International Socialists,
where Lodger, Potter, and Craft had made it
plain to the foreign delegates that the English
workmen were, practically, far in advance of
their Continental brethren  fiery oratory and
frothy periods notwithstanding.

On this occasion Mellin had not spoken,

THE STREET OF SAINTED JOSEPH: 239

looking on rather as an amused than as an
interested visitor. The discomfited vanity of
the Frenchmen, who had fancied themselves
masters of politics, and had formed but a contemptuous
estimate of the insular barbarians'
social science, struck his sense of humour as
infinitely comical. It was whispered that
Herzen, or Bakounine, or both, were present,
and there were some who persisted in recognising
the Tartar communist in Mellin ; but, in
truth, no man of special mark had put in an
appearance, the glory of celebrity being reserved
for future occasions. Ledru Eollin, who
was in England at the time, smiled superior on
the shortsighted aspirations of the few hotheaded
inconsequent neophytes who went in
deputations to invoke his aid and request his
presence, seeking to draw him from his retirement
in St. John's Wood to their debates in
obscure taverns and convenient hothouses.

Karl Marx, by birth a French Jew of
German strain, was likewise in London ; but he
also found no special sympathy amongst English
working-men. His cool, crafty character, his
cold-blooded unscrupulousness, had no attraction
for, but rather held the elements of a character
repulsive to the instincts of the average

240 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Englishman. As a scholar, a linguist, and a
doctor of philosophy, his subtle insight, practical
intellect, and logical reasoning would have
been thrown away upon a group so much in
the rough as the politicians of Belleville and the
Barricades. He belonged rather to the circle
which included men like Blind, Freiligrath,
Herzen, Kink el, Mazzini, Arrivabene, and
others, who, living in poverty and obscurity,
spent their time in writing for the foreign
democratic press, or in studying beneath the
hospitable dome of the British Museum Library.

But Marx, if he held himself aloof from the
brethren generally, was closely associated with
Herzen, the editor of the Eussian Kolokol, and
the author of the ' Development of Revolutionary
Ideas in Russia,' which book Marx saw
through the press for his friend.

We have already heard Melhn's contemptuous
summing-up of the socialistic merits of
the Swiss, German, and French Brotherhood.
There had been splits and divisions innumerable ;
the English and French association had been
dissolved ; there had been quarrelling at
Geneva, and defiance in Paris. The babel of
tongues had waxed furious at Lausanne, and
all shouted together  Euss raging against

THE STREET OF Sainted JOSEPH: 241

Teuton, Gaul against Saxon, the Latin races
against the Slav, in horrible polyglot, jaw-breaking
gutturals, and spluttering sibilants,
until fusion, harmony and mutual aid passed
into the sphere of impossibilities.

In all this Mellin had remained rather a
spectator than an agitator. He had, now and
again, been in the thick of it. He got a
doctor's certificate to say that certain German
baths were indispensable to his condition ; and,
a faithful servant of the Crown, he had been
let go With only the necessary formula of indispensable
passports and red-tapers. Once
over the frontier, although it behoved him still
to be cautious, he was comparatively free, and
if he turned up under the name of Treib, and
said he was a watchmaker, at Geneva, it could
be a matter of no possible import to anyone.

Congresses at Geneva and at Lausanne
showed clearly that propagandism must come
to a standstill if the propagandists could not
pay their printer's bills ; for as yet the society
had no secret presses of its own. It would
have been unsafe to attempt anything on a
large scale in St. Petersburg, Paris, Vienna,
or Berlin. At Geneva they enjoyed the liberty
of a free press ; but, if their sheets were to be

VOL. I. R

242 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

sown broadcast over Europe, they, the sowers,
must be prepared to pay skilled workmen for
setting up the polyglot type.

The squabbles of detail, the personal and
local disputes, had left Mellin and those working
with him, cold, disgusted and hopeful.
But here was an opening, here was an opportunity
for an immense and ever-spreading
activity. Wherever money was wanted,
women could easily be found who, by social
influence, by personal gifts, and personal
pressure, by smiles and softness, or by scorn
and reproach, would draw the necessary coin
from its hiding-places, and set the vital principle
rolling in gold according to the behests
of their instructors.

Mellin had always felt that to utilise the
enthusiasm and power of women would be to
turn to account a glut of undeveloped capital
lying dormant for want of a motive power
sufficiently strong to set it going. But now he
could 'take occasion by the hand,' and, through
the women secretly, though hitherto passively,
bound to the Cause, he should be able to raise
a vast amount of capital that would help the
matter in hand effectually along its precarious
path.

THE STREET OF SAINTED JOSEPH: 243

He was now brought into more familiar
contact with Bakounine, a Muscovite by birth,
a Tartar by name and blood, belonging \o the
inner cuxle of Eussian communism as represented
by Herzen, Ogareff, and others at Geneva,
and presently joined by Decker, whose prison
Bakounine had shared on more than one
occasion ; together they let the storm go by
whilst they plotted and planned extensively in
the interests of Eussian Nihilism.

Bakounine, strong on the equality of the
sexes, seized on the idea of the development of
female co-operation with avidity. Women had
always been mixed up in Eussian intrigues, but
there had been no organisation : it had been
due to chance, to special circumstances, or
individual influence. But now, it was incalculable
what an unscrupulous propaganda might
not effect, if female delegates could be made
the instruments of a wide working system of
pressure.

Thus it was that Julie Kerezoff had become
afhhated to the society, and, with her, thousands
of women who longed for an outlet to all the
aspirations and sympathies created by the
condition of their own country, and by the
disastrous social status of civilised women
R 2

244 eut C.SAR AUT NIHIL.

generally. Whilst men of all countries and of
all shades of opinion squabbled over local
questions, and fell out on matters of detail, the
Eussian group held steadily together. Their
annals were full of daring deeds and devoted
self-sacrifice. To them it seemed that the
Discontents of other nations vere as social
sybarites grumbling over the one crumpled
rose-leaf. They did not disguise from themselves
that the ' public,' as understood in
England, France, Belgium, Germany, or even
in Italy and Austria, had, as yet, no existence
in Russia. Subtract the twenty-two millions
of peasants, take away the vast population of
barrack and bureau, and what remained that
could be accredited as ' public opinion,' or that
could numerically claim sufficient importance
to justify a plea for hearing ? The university
students had always been in the van of progress
; and the way in which women had rushed
into the schools when the profession of medicine
was thrown open to them, proved that the
pent-up spirit of a class susceptible of higher
education and training would not be slow to
avail itself of increased opportunities of independence
and training. Such as these must
preach the propaganda ; yet the classes that

THE STREET OF SAINTED JOSEPH: 245

could be raised and inspired were not exclusively
to have their attention. Public opinion
must be educated. The bourgeoisie timid and
apathetic, must be fostered and encouraged.
The ' middle class,' so far conspicuous by its
absence from all political movements, must be
gradually inspired to recognise the fact that its
interests lay in the direction of Eeform. The
official classes must be corrupted and undermined.
The means to the end mattered little.
To seduce some great official and hopelessly
compromise his future, was well worth the
sums which the propaganda had more than
once unhesitatingly offered to some siren a la
mode, to some diva of the Opera, sworn to the
service of ' the Cause.' Why were great ladies
great, if not to show the power of wealth and
grace and charms ? And what harm if in
intimate circles romantic stories of handsome,
ardent Nihihst students, and court dames, or
resplendent, unattainable princesses, lent a
whispered flavour to the chronique scandaleuse
of Nihilism, the piquancy of which lost nothing
by the apparent incongruity of the exciting
details ?

And Melhn, as he sits revolving these and
other matters in the cold spring sunshine,

246 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

awaits two, it may be three, visitors, in his
humble garret, such as the Street of Sainted
Joseph rarely sees ; each, in her way, destined
to play no unimportant part in the annals of
the Cause.'



CHAPTER XIV.

BIAInTCA.

In London the same cold spring sunshine and
bleak east wind sent wayfarers hurriedly
through the streets. It had been a long,
hard winter, and it was a long, hard spring ;
but the lengthening April days told Londoners
that the busy season was near, and that in a
few weeks the crowded streets Avould testify to
the fulness of town.

In the large, light drawing-room everything
looked cold and hard and inhospitable. No
dexterous hand had draped the hangings,
drawn the blinds, or stirred the fire into a
cheerful blaze. " A woman's hand and a
woman's instinct would have placed a few
flowers, pale and scentless though the early
blossoms of the year might be, in the empty
vases ; have pushed the furniture into some
semblance of grace and comfort; whilst needles

AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

work, magazines, and music would have
betrayed a woman's presence.

Fitzgerald felt the sadly-altered aspect of
the familiar room, and understood and sympathised
with all that its changed aspect expressed
; yet he told himself, at the same time,
that he would combat, even at the risk of
seeming hard and unfeeling, the condition of
mind it betrayed ; and that, not of indifference,
but of conviction ; not from want of sympathy,
but out of the deepest sympathy and the tenderest
affection.

The door opened and Hero came in.

I am afraid I have kept you waiting. I
was at the top of the house. You know what
these tall London houses are.'

As to my waiting, that is of no consequence.
But wdiy where you at the top of
the house ? '

The tears rushed to her eyes.

I cannot sit here all alone,' she said.

Fo, perhaps not. But my uncle is sometimes
at home, and Bianca will soon be coming.'

To this she made no reply. Her face
expressing as plainly as silent language could :
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof

I know what you would say,' Fitz went

BIANCA. 249

on, speaking rapidly ; ' you have removed all
Her belongings as too sacred for common use,
too precious to risk their profanation by the
common touch. I know that to you " all the
place is dark, and all The chambers emptied of
delight ; " but sooner or later, the effort lias to
be made ; sooner or later we have to come
back to the old order of things, and, believe
me, the sooner the better  in a sense the
easier.'

What does that matter, where all is so
hard, so utterly hard and cruel ? And what
can you know  I don't mean to be unkind 
but you have your mother still ! I knoAv your
father was kind, and of course you mourned
him ; but what son  what young man  who in
the Avorld, could feel as I do? Oh, Fitz ! you
knew her, and you know what need I had of
her love, and what that love was to me. And
yet, even to you, I feel almost harsh and resentful,
hard and impatient, when you seem as
though you would bid me be consoled ; would
tell me " loss is common," and I dread lest you,
too, should repeat all the thousand well-meant
complacent things by which our friends think
to check the course of grief. Don't you see
that the fear is not of our grieving too much.

250 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

but of our never being able to grieve enough ?
I, at least, feel like that. Her great untiring
love, Which never forsook me during all the
long years of ray life  and some were bitterly
long  cannot be forgotten in a few short weeks.
Thirty years hence  doesn't it seem awful to
think of living so long ?  thirty years hence, if
I am still alive. I shall feel there is a great
debt of love and gratitude yet unpaid ; a debt
I never can pay even if I live to be an old,
old woman.'

I do not want to hurt you. Hero. I wish
I knew how to comfort you.'

People mean well, I know ; but to me
there seems something cruel aud cowardly in
these attempts at consolation. Why should one
not grieve . We have lost our most precious
earthly possession and yet we are to feel no
sorrow. Or we are to hustle our grief out of
sight, and pretend to be the same as we were
before sorrow overwhelmed us. It is cruel 
cruel ! '

You have a child, Hero ! '

I know. I have her. It is for that which
we have not '

And God forbid that I should preach 
but you ought to consider what She who is

BIANCA. 251

sone would, under the circumstances, have
thought the best.'

I know. But She always let me grieve
when I had real cause for grief. She would
not begrudge me my tears now. She would
know  as no one else does, or can.'

Do not be vexed that we wish to-comfort
you, Hero.'

She shook her head sadly.

Have you seen Graham ? ' he asked, after
a pause.

He would try every point of interest
despite her impatience to return and brood
over her grief.

'Not since  since Then.'

Poor fellow. I am so glad I brought him
up the last time I came.'

There was a pause. Evidently conversation
would not flow in that direction.

May I send you comic flowers ? I have
been ordering some for my mother,' and again,
as the last word inadvertently escaped his lips,
he felt he had blundered, and the colour rose
to his vexed face.

But Hero, seeing his discomfiture and pain,
laid her hand on his.

Never mind, Fitz ; it was kindly meant.

252 AUT C.-ESAR AUT NIHIL.

But not now. This room I always looked on
as hers ; there she sat, that was her chair ;
she loved to have flowers and children, and
birds, and all beautiful, bright, innocent things
about her. I have no one to make the room
pretty for now ; no one to please.'

You forget Bianca.'

10, I don't. But the young, in the very
fact of their youth, have everything. They
feel so secure of the happiness their elders have
missed ; they deem they are so much wiser
that the trouble we take in trying to please
them seems superfluous. Ah, Fitz ! it is the old
folks nowadays who are humble, and simple,
and easily pleased. Some little commonplace
act of conventional grace from the young ; a
pot of flowers, a birthday card, and they are
delighted, and endow the child or grandchild
that remembers them with a thousand virtues
and graces. If I must trim up the desolate
room for Bianca, it shall be for Bianca, though
the child will never guess the cost of the sacrifice.
For my own part, I could never, willingly,
inhabit it again.'

As the pitiless sun shone upon Hero, sparing
no single line set by sorrow and sickness in her
face, Fitz became painfully aware of the change

BIANCA. 253

that grief and loss had wrought in this fair
woman. Her black dress, made of some heavy-thick
material resembling a dense sort of crape,
fell in large straight folds to her feet. Her
beautiful white hands, so like her mother's,
whose clasp, strong and firm, seemed ordinarily
expressive of help and comfort, now lay limp
and unoccupied on her lap. She wore no
beads, bracelets, or trimmings ; no earrings,
crosses, or lockets ; not because she thought
it wrong to do so, but because to put on this
terrible black gown seemed at present as much
as she could endure, as much as it was necessary
she should accomplish. A narrow white
line at the throat and wrists relieved the universal
gloom of her attire, which was, Fitz
thought, with the true masculine abhorrence of
mourning,' almost conventual in its uncompromising
simplicity.

For the first time in his life Fitz realised
that Hero  still beautiful as she was  had
passed beyond her youth, and it was with
almost a passion of pity that he understood all
the barrenness of her past, and all the solitude
of her future.

He knew that a thousand reminiscences,
the experiences of daily life, lived together.

254 eut Caesar AUT NIHIL.

would never be referred to by her again ; that
in all the dreary outlook there must be subjects
on which Hero's lips would be for ever
sealed ; facts as to which she must henceforth
be entirely dumb. He, a young man, strong
in the hopes of an ardent youth, and unsullied
Manhood, for whom the fair possibilities of life
yet lay in the untried future, was by a generous
intuition able to understand the long
loneliness of this mourning woman. Still in
her prime, yet standing on the brink of an
eternal silence, through which, at best, only
vague, sad voices of the past could now and
again re-echo, in melancholy cadence, startling
the caves of memory.

Since you would not come to luncheon
with us,' Fitz said, breaking, as it were, with an
effort through his chain of thought, 'I wrote
saying I would come to you. And,' he added,
after a pause, 'it was about Bianca that I
wanted to speak to you.'

If he expected Hero to be roused by his
abrupt address he was evidently mistaken. It
was so natural that he should speak to the
mother of the child, so entirely what she expected.

'Yes?'

BIANCA. 255

There are things, Hero, that one cannot
speak of, and for that reason I don't speak of
them, but I think you vill understand me all
the same ? '

He paused a moment, wondering whether
she would understand the drift of his vague
allusions ; and again Hero moved her head in
acquiescence.

So that you know I am speaking

1 gainst my own interests if I ask when Bianca
IS to come home ? '

The colour flushed up into her pale cheeks
as Hero answered by another question.

You come from your mother ? '

Not at all. Neither my mother nor Bianca
enow of my coming.'

The brief flash of emotion, the quick sensitiveness
of a mother who sees her child an un-valued,
slighted, perhaps unwelcome guest, died
ut, and, almost as listlessly as before, Hero
repeated her monosyllabic query.

'Yes?'

And so you must take what I say to you
X no more than it is worth. It means exactly
fiat, and nothing more.'

I understand.'

When is Bianca to come home ? '

2 56 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Neither your mother nor Bianca have sent
you, you say ? Allow, Fitz, that your question
is a little odd ; a little startling. Do you want
to get rid of Bianca ? '

'As one wants to get rid of the sunshine
and the flowers ! '

Use some other simile,' Hero answered,
looking round the hm bare room. Ah ! how
willingly would she have banished the sunshine !
How long it would be before she could again
bear the sight of flowers !

No ; the simile is good enough. Forgive
me, Hero ; it is you who are out of harmony,
out of tune with nature.'

Nature is cruel ! '

Granted. But you are not answering m}
question. When is Bianca to come home ? '

This is no place for her.'

Not by her mother's side ? Are you just,
Hero ? / want to be so ; but, frankly, to me
you seem neither just nor kind.'

'Men judge in that way. You only see
what you see.'

When is Bianca to come home ? '

If my aunt still likes to have her, it is
better she should stay away. You say I am
not just ; but to my thinking it would be

BIAXCA 257

utterly unjust to bring a bright young nature
into this gloom, this blank, this solitude, and
expect sympathy of it.'

Make the gloom and solitude less.'
You ask too much of me ! ' Hero cried,
with a passionate outburst of resentful weeping.
You ask a sacrifice for which there is no need !
I am weary of this eternal strangling of self,
the good as well as the bad, the true as well as
false ! I am weary of this incessant sacrifice
to youth ! Let us sacrifice to the old at last,
at length, by way of a change ! Now that it
can no longer do them any good, when they
have passed beyond the assurance, and our
love can comfort them no more, and our devotion
comes, like everything else in this world 
too late ! The young have all their lives before
them. Why should we implant and foster
in them the ruthless selfishness which is the
shame and the sin and the crime of this generation?
We give them no chance of beings
reverent, and generous. When eve 
when I and my generation  were young, we
were taught to consider our elders, to respect
their wishes, to await their pleasure ; whilst
now, if trouble comes to parents, it must be
hidden from the sons and daughters ; if money

VOL. I. S

258 AUT C.-ESAR AUT NIHIL.

cares, whomsoever may want, the young people
must not go without ; if illness  keep the sickroom
door tightly closed ; if death  tears and
grief are depressing ! Unclose the shutters,
take a trip to the sea-side, and be sure your
mourning is becomingly made ! No, Fitz ! I
am of my generation, you of yours. Do you
think if my mother had lost me She would
have displayed all the admirable philosophy
you advocate ? I hate myself for my hardness
as I speak (how differently she would have
spoken, dear mother !), but it is the impatient
selfishness of this generation that makes me
bitter. Do you think my mother's Hfe was
such a happy one, so well filled with what a
woman holds dearest, that I can dismiss it
with that decent and complacent grief that is
but a mockery of real woe, as a thing fitly
fulfilled, appropriately concluded ? Ah ! how
different it would have been had the case been
reversed ! ' And Hero's sobs, coming thick and
threefold, checked the grievous flow of words.

Bianca wants to come to you. She suffers
from being kept away. She writes to you, and
doubtless she says more than I can ; but I
thought it might comfort you to know that she
is longing to be with you.'

BIANCA. 259

'I believe it.'

Tien why not let her come ? Why punish
yourself and her ? '

But Hero was on her guard. Nothing
should wing from her the confession that she
felt herself unable longer to suffice to her
child ; that the girl's heart had gone after
*- strange gods,' and that the impatience she
had already shown of the day of small things,
would run the risk of being dangerously developed
by the enforced dulness of this house
of sorrow. To abate the gloom in order to
suit the caprices of a spoiled child seemed to
Hero, in the first bitterness of her bereavement,
little short of sacrilege, and in her present
mood, every word of her own and Bianca's
that had not been syllabled by love, rose up
and reproached her as an act of cruel ingratitude
and lovelessness, towards her dear, dead
mother.

It was unfortunate that the latest intercourse
between her mother and her child had
left a painful impression on Hero's mind. She
had, secretly, resented what she thought the
suspicions of age in Mrs. Owen's reference
to Bianca's correspondence and understanding
with the KerezofFs ; at the same tie that shes
2

26o AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

had felt more bitterly than she would confess,
the pain of being supplanted by strangers in
her child's heart.

Juster and more far-sighted, Mrs. Owen had
striven to show her that, if she had erred in
giving Bianca too much liberty, she would err
yet more in resenting the foreign influence that
had crept in, owing to her own want of vigilance.
But Hero had taken the thing from
another side. Not resentment, but utter depression
and a dispirited resignation, marked
the attitude of her mind. Bianca's secret
correspondence had superinduced in her mother
a sense of profound discouragement, against
which, for the present, she vainly struggled.

What ! am I to watch and suspect my own
child ? ' she had cried in a paroxysm of despair.
Why, it is the way to make her deceitful !
What should I have been, mother, if you had
watched and suspected me ? '

Italian, and Irish, and French blood does
not flow in Bianca's veins for nothing ; she was
bound by the accidents of birth to be something
of a conspirator.'

No ! I could not do it ! I would not, if I
could ! Would that secure my child's love tome?
mother! you cannot mean it.'

BIANCA. 261

I do mean it. You will have to do it,
Hero. You must do it. It is a duty like
another. You are her guardian. Is it not
expecting too much, to expect a child of her
age to guide herself ? You must help her ;
anticipate her difficulties ; point out the danger
of these follies ; help her against herself, in
spite of herself.'

And lose her love by letting her see that
I suspect her P '

You think too much about her love. A
child has to love its mother. It will certainly
not love her the less because she exacts what
is just and right. It will respect her ; and
respect is the basis of all right kind of love.
Leave the love to take care of itself. Command
yom child as seldom as possible, but the
command once issued, insist upon its being
obeyed.'

Long before Mrs. Owen's death all personal
annoyance at the discovery she had involuntarily
made at Brussels had faded from her
own gentle forgiving mind.  Our little sunshine,'
she continually called Bianca ; ' our little
white lady ; ' ' our Blanchejieiu\ and a dozen
such endearing names ; but she, too, thought
change would do the girl good, and was glad to

262 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

know her in the fresh country au surrounded
b} safe friends and simple social pleasures.
When Fitz brought the bracelet for Hero to
see, Leonie looked at it for a long time,
thoughtfully turning the motto round and
round, with a smile in her wise, kind eyes.

Our winter-rose will like this ; ' and, after
a pause: ' Out petite reine hlaiiche has already
a sovereignty of her own, with knights, and
squires, and vassals at her feet. They are but
boy and girl, but I am much mistaken if Bianca
has not the choice of reigning at Fairholt ;
but  old matchmaker that I am  I should be
happier to see her put her little hand into
Fitz's big honest one. She needs a guiding-influence,
and such a brave and upright soul
commands respect, and, with women, respect,
in the long run, almost certainly insures love.'

Hero, who at Sprudelheim had been nervously
anxious lest Fitz's kindly yet keen eyes
should be scanning her child too judicially, and
who, more than once, had detected grave disapproval
in his glance, could not complacently
follow her mother along this prospective oath.
To her mind, Vater and fire could as soon
commingle as two such opposite natures as
Bianca's and her cousin's. Maternal vanity

BIANCA. 263

may have lurked in secret corners, unsuspected
by herself, and have unconsciously influenced
her ; for whatever Fitz might take upon himself
to blame in Bianca, was an indirect condemnation
of Hero herself. And again, she
shrank from the Idea of any man morally dissecting
her child, as she would have resented
his appraising her young, fresh beauty. It
seemed an intrusion. Let her mother have
care of her, body and soul, whilst both were
yet tender. A man's rougher estimate, and
coarser judgment, should not profane the
secrets of the girl's inner nature, by prying
scrutiny.

When that dread blow, so long expected,
and yet so unexpected at last, fell upon the
Owen household, it was Fitz who at Hero's
request went to fetch the child home. He had
to break the terrible news to her, and to telegraph
to the poor distracted mother that her
child's panic terror of the Dread Presence made
it impossible to bring her to the house where
Death reigned supreme.

Mrs. Fitzgerald jumped at the opportunity
thus offered her of semi-reconciliation with the
Owen family, and Hero, fearful lest Bianca's
impressionable nature should suffer by any

264 eut Caesar AUT NIHIL.

violence done to its instinctive horror and fear
of death, acquiesced in the plan.

She did not wish to compel the child to
return home. She asked for time to give herself
up to her own absorbing grief. Effort, she
knew, would be demanded of her later on, but
for the present she gave way utterly, and sorrow
held its undivided sway.

As Fitz and the terror stricken girl
journeyed up to town, she shrank against her
cousin, cowering at his side for the mere comfort
of human contact. She would have done
the same to anyone. To Fitz, however, that
journey had seemed like a dream, half pain,
half-pleasure. To feel his manhood sheltering
and protecting the frail young creature ; to put
his arm round her trembling form and draw
her to him, and pillow her pale face upon his
breast, stirred all that was tender and manly in
his honest heart. The shadow of a great grief
was upon them both, chastening all his thoughts
(for Fitz had loved and reverenced his aunt) ;
and, thinking nothing of himself and everything
of Bianca, it sufficed him that he was helpful
and needful to her in this hour of helplessness
and need.

BIAXCA. 265

A few words Mrs. Hudson had said to him
in private.

Bianca is a dear girl, but I think she is
changed, Mr. Fitzgerald. She has something
on her mind.'

Hudson, too, had his word.

I'm glad you've come, old fellow. You
know I was awful " spoons " upon her, and all
that ; but when a girl looks persistently over
the top of a fellow's head, pot-hat and all, you
may be sure he had better get himself out of
the way. It may come all right, but I don't
like those letters."

Honest Fitz said nothing against his junior's
philosophy, but secretly he found the letters a
stumbling-block of offence. Hudson spoke as
though there were no secret in the matter, yet
it seemed impossible to ask any questions about
Bianca's private correspondence, or to discuss
her doings with strangers. He shook hands
warmly with mother and son, and jumped into
the carriage after his weeping charge.

I think,' Fitz said, returning to his proposition,
for Hero had not spoken again, ' that
if you do not need Bianca, Bianca needs you.'

To-day, perhaps. But tomorrow she
would feel all the crushing sadness of our lives.

266 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL

her heart would rebel against the monotony,
and she would weary of her home and her
own people.'

Surely you are unjust. But if so  still she
is better, safer, with you than elsewhere.'

Safer ? ' repeated Hero, her attention
arrested at last. ' Is she not safe with your
mother  with you . '

In one sense, yes  in another, no.'

The little maid from Fairholt, pleasure
beaming all over her fresh country face, was
coming across the room with a letter on a silver
tray. The paper and the metal made a bright
spot against her black gown. ' A letter from
Mrs. Hudson, ma'am. It has the Midhurst
post-mark,' said the little maid's country voice,
ignorant of London codes and conduct, and
proud of her own discernment.

Hero took the letter from the tray. ' That
will do, Hannah. If there is any message from
your people, or anything about your home, I
will tell you afterwards.' Then looking atFitz,
You will excuse me ? ' she said, and Fitz drew
a little aside, taking a book from the table,
wdnlst Hero opened Mrs. Hudson's letter.

26/

Chapter XV.

'I FORGIVE YOU.'

There was silence in the room,

Fitz, his back almost turned to Hero, was
deep in thought. The interruption came opportunely.
It behoved him to be careful. In
these delicate matters it is so much easier to
mar than to make.

He left Hero to the undisturbed consideration
of her correspondence.

Mrs. Hudson's kind, commonplace (and
yet not altogether simple) letter was quickly
scanned. The enclosure, which, being of some
size and bulk, with a large and very armorial
seal, had stuck in the envelope, gave Hero a
little trouble to extract from its envelope.
She held it a minute in her hand  whilst the
painful colour flushed her cheeks and neck
glanced at Fitz, and saw him apparently 

AUT C.-ESAR AUT NIHIL.

sorrel in his book ; hesitated again a second,
and then with more energy than so slight a
matter would have seemed to suggest, tore the
letter quickly open.

My dear Child  I forgive you. All the
rest beyond heartfelt thanks is, as your own
Hamlet says, " Silence'" '

That was all. A matter of a dozen words
or so. Xo signature. Ah ! too hasty suspicion ;
it was a mistake. The letter, addressed to
someone else, had been shuffled by the good,
fussy old lady into the wrong envelope. But
no ! There was the direction, painfully plain,
in the little laboured, niggling, foreign handwriting
: ' A la Signorina Bianca Marvellous
aux soins de Monsieur Hudson, a Fairholt., pres
de Midhurst, Sussex., Angleterre''

'My dear Child: Whose dear child?
Not hers, not Hero's, surely not? Surely yes!
The Signorina Bianca Martello: The letters
which, erewhile, looked black, now seemed
written in fire. They burned into Hero's sight,
they seemed printed in scorching character's
upon her brain.

What gulf was this that had suddenly
opened beneath her feet*- Who dared to
share her right in Bianca, and address her as

'/ FORGIVE YOU: 269

My dear Child ? ' Why, but now, a moment
since, Fitz was here, talking of the child ; of
la petite reine blanche,' of lier grandmother's
loving vocabulary, or  was it years ago ? A
time that had no name, no boundaries, and no
limit? No to-day or j' yesterday ? A dreamland
of phantasmagoric slumbers ?

I forgive you.'

'Forgive her  What?' asked the agonised,
ignorant, exasperated, outraged mother. Alio
now that the only one whose rights she had
recognised as equal to her own, had ceased
to exercise them-who dared, and by what
authority, thus to assume the sacred power of
parental absolution, and, with comprehensive
brevity, to declare that her sins  hers, Bianca's
were remitted to her? A mist clouded
Hero's brain as she sat in silent anguish, her
pulses beating thick in her throat and at her
temples.

She glanced at Fitz, who appeared to be
absorbed in a book.

And all the rest,' so the mysterious correspondent
declared, was ' silence ! '

Was it possible? Could such things be?
And with a moan of piteous anguish, an
inarticulate cry of pain, like a dumb, stricken

270 AUT C.-ESAR AUT NIHIL.

creature in distress, Hero  reserve, pride, reticence
broken down  fell forward against the
arm of the sofa, conscious only of a vast despair.


Startled by the strangeness of her cry, Fitz
sprang towards her. She had not fainted.
Only, in her dumb anguish, in her sense of
baffled misery, the need of human sympathy
and human contact overcame all lesser needs,
and, with groping hands, she instinctively felt
for support from the very person whose counsels
she had but now rejected.

Then, the first speechless suffering having
found outlet in a flood of tears, much to Fitz's
relief, she unreservedly appealed to him for
sympathy and counsel in her sorrow. All
pride and reticence were forgotten ; all petty
considerations cast to the winds, and in her
frantic desire for aid and advice she told him
all she knew

But, after all, what did it amount to ? To
nothing. So she declared, not willing to deceive
herself, or be yet further deceived.

Fitz, himself as pale as trouble could make
a man, felt that before all things, before any
consideration of his own pain, it behoved him
to give her all the comfort his manhood could

'/ FORGIVE you: 271

convey to her appealing womanhood in that
hour of distress.

Did you  after what took place about the
letter' and the charm  did you forbid Bianca to
write to these people any more ? ' he asked.

No. I thought the lesson would have
been enough for her.'

Ah ! '

And I was afraid to command lest lie
should disobey. I did not want to make it
more difficult for her.'

Perhaps you would have made it easier
for her. To plead a mother's commands as
reason and excuse, explains everything where
a young girl is concerned. Don't you see that
she had no need to apologise for you ? Indeed,
such apologies would be unbecoming
and out of place in a child on behalf of her
mother.'

She had had such a lesson ! I preferred
leaving it to her owen sense of right. It would
have been ungracious to extort what she might
offer willingly. I did not want to rob her act
of its generosity  its grace.'

And the ornament  the charm ? '

She refused point blank to give it up.
What could I do? I thought it seemed like

272 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

breaking a butterfly on the wheel to oppose
a childish fancy of the sort with any severity.
Girls have a thousand fancies and passing
manias which it is best not to notice.'

This has not proved to be of the trifling
order.'

Ah ! I know how much I must seem to
blame. But consider, Fitz, what little difference
there is in our ages. We were more like
two sisters than mother and daughter ; and I
thought the law of love the best.'

It is possible to think too much of love,'
Pits said, steeling himself, in his young severity,
against her pleadings ad misericordiam.

To Hero, even in her hour of need and
utter failure, this seemed ' rank blasphemy.'

Oh, surely not ! ' she said in protest. ' That
I have been wrong, utterly wrong and mistaken,
seeing the result, how can I deny? But the
law of love is best, however badly I may have
succeeded in my attempt to prove its power.'

Her humility touched Fitz to the quick.
I am sure you meant only the best, always,'
he said, encouragingly ; ' but, you see, you put
a sore burthen on such young shoulders.'

Fitz ! how good of you ! ' Hero exclaimed
with a sort of divination. Intuition

'/ FORGIVE vol: 273

told her that lie was excusing Bianca at some
cost to himself. In sooth he was bitterly ' disillusioned.'
Here was another Richmond in the
field, and in a likeness so little anticipated by
him that the shock was all the greater.

Dark sayings of Eeggie's, and dim hints of
kind, simple Mrs. Hudson's, rose up in Fitz's
mind. But he felt the need of time to sift
the whole matter. He was only struggling
through night to light. ' / doit like those
letters,' Eeggie Hudson had said in his boyish
way. And Ficz had not pursued the subject,
feeling as though to do so would be indelicate,
ungenerous ; not wise, nor kind.

She has something on her mind,' the good,
motherly, simple soul had declared, as she delivered
her young guest into Fitz's keeping.

And now this trouble had broken like a
storm over their heads, and found both Hero
and her cousin utterly unprepared to deal
with it.

Fitz, arguing against his own interests, had
come that very afternoon to urge upon Hero
the wisdom of recalling her child ; his fine instinct
hinting at some undefined estrangement,
since the great grief which had overwhelmed
them both, instead of throwing these two into

VOL. 1. T

274- Caesar AUT nihil.

one another's arms, had swept them silently
asunder. To hin it seemed alike sad and
cruel, that Hero should sit alone evening after
evening, beside her desolate hearth, whilst,
within a circumscribed radius, hier child was
unconsciously growing accustomed to the separation,
and sinking into a kind of life that Fitz
felt was not good for a girl of her peculiar disposition.


He had come there to effect a purpose, and'
if, in furtherance of his amiable project, he
somewhat exaggerated Bianca's desire to be
once more with her mother, he did so in the
hope that all the secret fibres of maternity
would be stirred, and that Hero, in recalling
her child, would alike find the proper outlet
for her pent-up misery, and save the girl from
what, in the long run, not even filial piety
could call a wholesome influence.

But now? He felt that he could not be
too thankful some blind prophetic instinct of
caution had sealed his lips, at home, as to
to-day's intended visit ; that he could meet his
mother and Bianca at dinner and make no sign.

To sago-est that Bianca should return was
now out of the question. They must wait and
see what best could be done.

'/ FORGIVE you: 275

Shall you send Bianca that letter ? ' lie
asked.

No.'

 Shall you write to lier on the subject ? '

No. Fitz, how cau I ? '

Well, perhaps not.'

Tell me what I am to do.'

AVe must wait and see. I must think.'

You will come to me again tomorrow
morning early, or I shall go mad. remember,
I am all alone ! '

I do remember it,' he answered, taking
her hand.

And  Fitz  you will not say anything toto
anybody ? '

Certainly not.'

Not to your mother ? '

'No.'

Nor to her  to Bianca. It midst do
endless mischief Nor  if you should see him
nor to Graham ? '

Nor to Graham. Though.  mind  he is
so wise and kind, so just and generous, you
could have no better counsellor at such a
juncture.'

Oh, no, no ! ' Hero exclaimed.

This man, who ought to have been her

T 2

276 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

child's next friend, was the last being in the
world to whom she could reveal any flaw ina
character which she fondly wished him to
believe perfect.

Graham, who knew that no such thing as
perfection existed, would probably have liked
Bianca none the less for her ' touch of earth ; '
but Fitz understood and appreciated the
mother's jealousy on this point.

I may speak to Bianca herself, should occasion
offer, openly on the subject? '

Yes.'

Of your's and of her grandmother s remonstrances,
and of this letter enclosed by
Mrs. Hudson ? '

Yes.'

Meanwhile, how will you account to her
for not writing ? For I apprehend you will
not be able to do so, as though nothing had
occurred, and that you will, under the circumstances,
prefer silence to what you may think
insincerity.'

I will take my father to Brighton or
Richmond for a few days' change, and my
notes will be mere routine notes of excuse.
That will be the best.'

Bad's the best.'

/ FORGIVE YOU? 277

Fitz ! if you only knew

But you must not give in. All will come

right. Believe me. I promise you. Goodbye.'



Good-bye. God bless you, Fitz ! '

God bless you ! And be of good cheer.'

And Fitz stooped and kissed his cousin's cold

hand.

278 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Chapter XVI.

A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS, DIVINELY TALL
AND MOST DIVINELY FAIR.'

There is a certain type of beauty which cannot
be disguised. It is so striking, so exquisite, so
accomplished, that neither rags nor poverty,
neither climate nor costume, can modify its
intrinsic perfection, neither can age wither nor
custom stale its infinite variety.

Perhaps this was the reason that the
Countess Helena Perowska attempted no sort
of disguise in her visits to the garret of the
Street of Sainted Joseph.

What peasant costume could have hidden
the harmonious symmetry of her stately presence
? How could the clear outline of her
delicately tinted face have been accepted as
that of a daughter of toil? Those slender
hands, with their rosy palms and tapering
fingers, would have alone betrayed her ; and

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 279

therefore she judged wisely in making no attempt
to obscure her radiant loveliness.

She presented the rare anomaly of a religious
bigot and a Nihilist combined ; and, as
an uncommon variety of the species, claims a
few special words as to her past, and as to the
reason of her presence in the reputed chapman's
garret.

Brought up in the rigid forms of the
strictest Greek orthodoxy, the daughter of a
House that claimed for itself the prestige of
having reigned imperially in legendary times,
and of having, historically, distinguished itself
by an unswerving fidelity ' to the reigning
dynasty,' one of a large household of daughters,
the beautiful Helena had made a stir, even ina
family where beauty was a prerogative of
birthright. Her education had been something
other, and better, than the usual French polish,
the thin lacquer and veneer of superficial accomplishments
and shallow smatterings taught
in the fashionable institutions of St. Petersburg.
She had travelled, as a young girl,
with her parents in Europe ; she had had an
excellent and sensible English governess ; and
her greatest friend was a young Englishwoman
married to a German official at the Eussian

iso AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

Court. She was romantic, proud, impulsive,
and yet cold. She was so dazzling fair, so
beautiful and graceful, so soft and serene, that
to have the privilege of gazing upon her, in the
bloom of her young loveliness, as at some work
of art standing in its dedicated shrine, seemed,
to the modest spectator, no despicable advantage.


From travel and from intercourse, from
reading and conversation, she had unconsciously
imbibed large and liberal ideas. Naturally inclined
to enthusiasm, she flung herself with
ardour into the only enthusiasm at that time
possible to her. Eeligion with her was ecstasy ;
loyalty a passion ; and she worshipped the
Sovereign with a romantic devotion such as
caused the faithful followers and adherents of
our own royal and reckless Stuart to eventually
ruin themselves in a thankless cause.

Not that there was in her case any prospect
of contingent ruin implied by the fact of her
devotion to Imperial Caesar. To her it almost
seemed as if the divinity ' that doth hedge
about a king ' sat visibly upon his lofty brow,
and shone out in the soul-piercing yet melancholy
eyes.

The lustrous liquid gaze that rested so flat

DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 281

daringly, so complacently, and yet so mournfully
upon her own fair young face, could not
but touch her profoundly. She would, in the
innocent enthusiasm of her girlish devotion,
have gladly laid her head upon the block at
His command, nor thought His approval dearly
won by the sacrifice.

His isolation upon an unapproachable pinnacle,
as it were, of solitary glory, seemed to
her the most pathetic of likenesses. Who
could dare to be his friend ? Who might not
venture to be his enemy ? And what was life
worth, lived for the World, for the Public, for
his subjects ; lived for the army, the church,
the family, the throne, but not lived for Himself?


Her exquisite and extraordinary beauty
caused a flutter in Court circles when, at
eighteen years of age, she was presented to the
Empress Dowager, to the reigning Empress,
and all the Imperial family. Regulation coiut-
mourning was just at the time of her presentation
the order of the day, and a murmur of
admiration went round as the lovely debutante
made her curtsey. Her golden-brown hair
was wreathed with Eussian violets, her white
crape dress caught up with bunches of the

282 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

same flower, and tiny white plumelets ; her
exquisite arms and neck rivalling in uniformity
and purity of tint the priceless pearls she wore.
Modest, gentle, and dignified, there was at
once a softness and vividness, a freshness and
fragrance about her that words cannot describe.


At the end of three years the lovely
Helena, then more lovely than ever, was told
that her betrothal and marriage to Count
Perowsky must now be celebrated. She knew
but little of Perowsky, and what she knew she
did not like. A fast young nobleman of the
Kalmuck-Tartar type, insincere countenance,
and oblique, shifty eyes ; a yoinig man of tandems,
bull dogs, betting and boxing ; of monster
cigars, deep potations, questionable tastes
and doubtful manners ; dress and address alike
supposed to be English  Anglomania representing
the latest fashionable craze in the
circles he chiefly frequented.

She asked her mother if some other arrangement
could not be made ? She scarcely
expected a favourable answer. The question
was hardly worth asking. She did not dream
of choosing for herself; she did not ask for
love. That, she supposed, like so many other

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 283

bright and beautiful thugs  legends and lives
of the saints, miracles and marvels  existed
only in books, as a thing of the imagination ;
but she thought perhaps someone more suitable
could be found  someone who swore less,
reeked less of wine, betted and wagered less,
was less disposed to imitate the swagger of
loud Americans or underbred Englishmen, and
spent less money in a less questionable manner.
But she was told it ' suited.'
She was told that a certain august Personage
desired it ; that young Perowsky, the
chosen companion of one of the younger archdukes,
was a protege of the Emperor's, who
looked upon his escapades as mere ebullitions
of youthful folly, and would gladly see the
volatile young nobleman settled, ranged, 'pose
by a suitable marriage, in order that He might,
thereafter, testify His good-will to the young
man in a substantial form.

Traditions of obedience led Helena, both asa
daughter and as a subject, to obey. The
Imperial family, to its remotest archducal
branches, each after its kind, sent her magnificent
presents. Society feted her, and the Czar
signified His intention of honouring the occasion
of her marriage by His presence.

284 AUT C.SAR AUT NIHIL.

Anyone who has lived at even the smallest
of Courts, Avill readily understand that the
young couple were regarded with envious eyes,
and that for the bride-elect there was no possibility
of escape.

The atmosphere of Courts is fatal to individual
independence. The tone which prevails
is necessarily one of extreme devotion ; plain-speaking
is impossible, unless by special invitation
; and even then it is a perilous experiment.
The frankest and least servile soul, breathing
the general atmosphere of scrupulous submission,
inhales something of the polite poison,
and insensibly the character becomes more or
less invertebrate. He who, in such an atmosphere,
seeks to save something of his individuality
and independence, is looked upon as
an uncivilised ruffian ; averted eyes, cold
shoulders, curt replies, tell him of his mistake,,
and mark the disapproval which politeness refrains
from pronouncing.

It is true that a feeling of pain, not unmingled
with surprise, was for a time Helena's
predominant sentiment. The Sovereign had
looked on her with such kindly eyes, had said
so many gracious and flattering things to her,
that there seemed a contradiction in his impose

DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 285

ing so uncongenial a spouse upon her. But
the habit of unquestioning obedience prevailed,
and she made no sign. The ceremony took
place in her father's palace, and was followed
by a ball. The following day the Czar left
St. Petersburg for a week's hunting, and the
bride was taken by her bridegroom to. one ot
his numerous country estates.

At the wedding everyone had remarked
the extraordinary emotion with which the Czar
had followed the marriage ceremonial. By
some it was attributed to personal reminiscences
; others declared that young Count
Perowsky, being the ringleader of a band of
boon companions of one of the Imperial Grand
Dukes, the Czar had promoted this alliance in
order to cut short His own son's scandalous
existence ; and it was asserted that He lived in
fear lest Perowsky, in the folly and exultation
consequent on having secured the loveliest lady
at Court for his bride, might not betray the
history of past bachelor rioting and escapades,
or at the last moment implicate the Grand
Duke, his quondam boon companion, so as
to outrage even the very elastic proprieties of
the Imperial Court.

Helena looked grave, pale, and composed.

286 AUT C.-ESAR AUT NIHIL.

As innocent as, but less frolicsome than, the
typical ingenue she saw in the marriage a social
arrangement by which two families were enabled
to represent and consolidate wealth and
power, community of interest, and unity of
aim, combined with undying fidelity to the
Sovereign.

She had no regrets on the score of love :
she did not like leaving her mother, and the
nursery and school-room, full of little sister's.
Still, she did not doubt but that she could
pursue her ideals as uninterruptedly as ever ;
that she would be permitted in a dilettante way
to look after the peasants on her husband's
estates, a little a I Anglaise ; that she might
continue her studies in English history and
poetry, on the plan recommended by her late
governess. ' Are we far from Katchaloff ? ' she
asked her bridegroom, as they drove up to the
door of their country-house.

They had not been alone together until 
after the wedding ball and an early dejeuner 
she entered the travelling-carriage which was
to take them to their destination.

Before she had settled herself comfortably
in her furs, and coaxed her little pet dog to
sleep upon her knees, a loud snore told her

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 287

that her lord and master lead dispensed with
further ceremony. With a look of disgust in
his direction, she applied herself to the scenery.
Some vague idea that rough and boisterous
caresses might have been the unwelcome alternative,
glanced across her mind, and made her
temporarily grateful for the unceremonious
somnolence of her life-companion. But, to do
him justice, Paul Perowsky had no such familiar
intentions.

Hitherto his attentions to the female sex
had been exclusively confined to the venal and
the vulgar. He did not know how to address
a lady, nor could he imagine how any man,
worthy the name, could be mean-spirited
enough to succumb to the airs of affected
fastidiousness, the assumptions and exactions of
fanciful women.

The stopping of the carriage, the barking
of dogs, the question, 'Are we far from Katcha-
loss ? ' roused the bridegroom from his four
hours' uninterrupted slumber.

Katchaloff ? What do you know, why
do you want to know, about Katchaloff.' he
asked gruffly. 'We are at Semonow, now.'

I know what everyone knows ; that His
Imperial Majesty has a hunting lodge at

288 , AUT Caesar AUT Nihil.

Katchaloff, and that He went there from the
ball, for a week's shooting.'

Then you know more than I do.'

The vast, dreary, uninhabited building to
which, as-representing a home, the young
reprobate had brought his bride, was melancholy
enough of aspect to depress anyone, even
though of the most cheerful temperament.
But there had been little choice in the matter.
Great possessions, titles, wealth and estates do
not in Russia presuppose a ' castle,' or ' court,'
or ' lodge,' or ' manor house,' as they do m
England, and in a minor degree, in other European
countries.

Count Perowsky was that young Eussian
nobleman whose words have often been quoted,
when  in reply to some remark as to the extent
of his possessions  he replied that he knew
nothing about it, as they were managed by an
agent, adding : ' Pourtant on dit que fai de
superb tenses du cote de Tomsk''

As it was, Helena's high courage and proud
self-command were nearly failing her under a
sickening sense of terror and loneliness.

The crowd of rough unkempt retainers in
the courtyard, the baying and barking of the
dogs  which not even the whip of the overseer

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 289

could quell  the monotonous melancholy of
the blank frontage, unbroken by one friendly
or familiar face, the unpainted window frames,
with here and there a broken pane of glass, the
shattered fragments still lying on the unwept
flagstones, between the crevices of which the
seeding grasses grew high and rank, the grey
decline of a cloudy day, and the remoteness
and loneliness of the place, rendered it a matter
of effort for Helena to smile graciously and try
to look pleased, when the wild horde pressed
about her, kissing her hands, her shoes, the
hem of her dress and of her travelling-cloak,
calling her ' Farina' ' princess,' ' little mother,'
saint,' ' little mistress.'

It is true that since the emancipation (at
which epoch a certain number of serfs were
chosen by the landed proprietors to fulfil household
functions), the Dvorovie, or domestic servants,
who received their liberty but were not
allotted portions of land, were not expected todo
more than salute the Farina respectfully, as
house-servants engaged by the year ; but this
was a special occasion, and the labourers on
the estates had joined the Dvorovie in welcoming
the bride and bridegroom. Helena
bore up bravely, smiling in response to the

VOL. I. u

290 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

uncouth reception, until, with a sudden movement,
her husband snatched a long-thonged
whip from the kennel-master's hands, lashing
the group immediately within thong's range
unmercifully. A dull howl of mingled rage
and pain, a menacing animal protest, as of
dumb brute indignation, struck a terrible note
of warning in Helena's breast. At that moment
she would have given all she possessed, to seethe
wanton tyrant beside her receive retributive
castigation at the hands of one of his infuriated
victims. Her contempt for this uncalled-for act
of cruelty brought a frown to her fair brow ;
and, where passive resignation had hitherto
prevailed, an intense and active sense of repulsion
rose rebellious in her bosom.

Why do you do that ? ' she asked ; ' the
poor people mean no harm. Why beat them
like dogs ? '

Dogs ? They haven't half the manner of
dogs. Curse them ! Dogs, if they are permitted
to live, are licked into form ! '

Then she had walked away, not hiding, nor
attempting to hide all the scorn she felt for
this boorish lout of a nobleman.

A kind of major-domo, in black, with
elaborate manners and an unpleasant, impassive

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 291

face, led the way. The labyrinthine passages
gave Helena a prison-like feeling as they passed
many closed doors in their silent progress.
Presently the German intendant threw open
a suite of rooms, luxuriously furnished.

These are the Countess's own apartments,'
he said, obsequiously. 'I hope the gracious
lady is satisfied ? '

'Perfectly. Be so good as to tell the
people to send my maid to me when she
arrives. And stay ! Tell the Count I shall
rest until dinner-time.'

At dinner it appeared that the advent of
the maid might be indefinitely delayed. The
carriage containing her had broken down, and
there was a difficulty as to repairs. The
nearest smithy was a shed six miles away from
the scene of the accident.

Helena was now greatly discomposed. The
maid who, in childhood, had been her nurse,
was selected by her mother as a staid, trustworthy
person, to form the last responsible link
with home ; to mitigate the young bride's sense
of loneliness, which the presence of a stranger
would painfully have completed.

What am I to do ? ' the Countess asked.

Katharine can attend on you. Katharine's
u 2

292 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

a jolly little girl, better than nine-tenths of
your fine-lady /??img5 de chambre!

To this Helena made no reply. But when
she withdrew, and the major-domo's daughter,
practised in the pert familiar airs, as it seemed,
of the souhrette of the comic opera, came up to
offer assistance, her mistress instinctively shrank
from the too free touch, and chartered impertinence
of her bold black-eyed attendant.

You can go,' she said. Then, a sudden
terror of loneliness overcoming her pride, she
added, quickly, ' that is, when you have shown
me the Count's apartments;' and, walking to
the window, she drew aside the heavy curtains.

The bachelor suite, madame, is in an
eastern wing, which you cannot see from here.
The new suite of rooms have been furnished,
and are on the other side of the ante-room
which leads into this suite ; but I heard our
lord the Count say the keys of both were to be
given to him, so '  with a hateful grimace 
the gracious lady may have some difficulty in
knowing where to find him.'

As Helena felt, she scarcely knew whether,
in case of need, she would call her husband to
her aid, or apply to others for protection as
against him. She determined, at any rate, not

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 293

to go to bed ; and, turning up the lamp, she
drew an easy chair to the table, and sat down
to read. It might be that her own maid would
arrive before daylight, and, if so, her mistress
would be the first to welcome her.

By degrees the familiar signs and sounds oi
daily life abated. Doors ceased to slam ; lights
were extinguished ; profound stillness settled
down upon the house and its belongings. Once
it seemed to her that distant wheels were approaching;
but the soil was sandy, the turf,
over whch everyone recklessly drove, would
deaden sound, and imagination might be only
counterfeiting the arrival of the belated traveller.


Her highly strung nerves were startled in
the midst of the most intense silence, by the
sound of a distant door slamming. She laid
her book down upon her knees and waited.

The room, which had been lit with many
candles on her entrance, was now nearly dark.
A lamp burned on the table at her side ; she
had caused the candles to be extinguished in
her boudoir. Those in the bedroom beyond
were still alight ; and through the open door
she could see the pale blue satin bed-hangings,
and large cheval glass. On the wall opposite

294 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

was an unframed mirror let into the panelling,
but the room, being in shadow, except under
the immediate circle of light caused by the
lamp-shade, the eye was not attracted to, nor
were objects clearly reflected in, its brilliant
surface.

Suddenly, as she sat looking and listening,
her hearing morbidly alive to every sound, it
seemed as if she heard her own name . pronounced.
Unwilling to be the fool of Fancy
she braced her nerves, by yet another effort, to
disbelief; she told herself it was mere imagination.
But  just as she had succeeded in
persuading herself  she heard a voice whispering
her name.

Helena ! '

Deprecatingly, appealingly, demonstratively
so it seemed to her  the familiar syllables
formed themselves into a melancholy ghostlike
echo. ' Helena ! '

Who knew her name here ? In this vast,
lonely building, who could so call her ?
Was it some spirit token ? or was it some
practical joke ? If so, the jesters should not
be gratified at her expense. She would betray
no fear. Yet, as she formed the resolution,
and was about to resume her interrupted

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 295

studies, again the voice, softly calling ' Helena ! '
arrested her purpose.

She had been looking towards the door of
her bedroom, forgetting that, masked by a
tapestry 'portiere there was also a door behind
her. But now some confused movement
attracted her gaze to the looking-glass panel,
and she was startled out of her well-preserved
composure by finding herself face to face with
the Emperor.

Rising instinctively to her feet she advanced
to meet the apparition, but her progress was
checked by the looking-glass. Then she
understood that the person intruding was, in
reality, behind her, reflected only in the unframed
mirror.

As she turned, pale with terror, to confront
her midnight visitor, the apparition dropped
the tapestry over the door, and the Sovereign,
in person, stood before her.

Helena ! ' he said again, this time in no
whisper, in accents which she knew only too
well ; ' Helena ! It is I, the Emperor ; have
no fear.'

Your Imperial Majesty here, at this hour,
unattended, unexpected ! What does it mean ?
What am I to think, Sire ? '

296 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Think the truth.'

The truth, Sire, must mean danger, sudden
and secret. So much I can guess, if I cannot
guess the details. Our loyalty and fidelity
cause your Imperial Majesty to place gracious
confidence in us and to entrust your personal
safety to our keeping. So much I understand
as a matter of course. But '

She spoke in the conventional tones of deep
and devoted respect. ' We,' ' our,' hard as the
words were to form, she forced her rebellious
tongue to utter them glibly.

" We," " our " ; is it really then come to
that ? Have you been able to identify yourself
with your husband so soon, so terribly soon ? '
asked the Emperor in a tone of tender reproach.


I thought, Sire, I meant  that is, the well-known
devotion of my father's house, the
loyalty and love in which we have been
trained '

And she stammered, confused, uneasy, and
dismayed at the novelty of the situation. Personal
fear she had none. She stood, as a subject,
awaiting the Sovereign's commands.

Loyalty and love,' repeated the Emperor,
in melancholy tones. ' Ah ! Helena, the last

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 297

word includes the first, with bliss added to-duty.'
Then, seeing her startled and astonished
aspect, he went on : ' And that is all ? You
have guessed nothing of my anguish ? Is it
possible you have never divined the agony of
love and despair with which I saw your young
beauty sacrificed, where I, the high-priest of
that sacrifice, assisted at it, and yet made no
sigh ? '

Helena, deadly pale  suppressed emotion
almost suffocating her  moved a step aside.

Why, then, was the sacrifice made ? What
does it all mean ? ' she asked, her face scared
and anxious, her eyes dilated, her lips pale and
trembling.

It means that black and bitter tongues
were sullying your fair fame. It means that
miscreants, who do not dream, who have not
capacity, themselves, for suffering the slow torture
of long-suppressed tenderness, and the
anguish of a solitary life, had discovered my
secret, and had ventured to sully with the
breath of scandal your maiden purity and
honour.'

The pale loveliness  which, despite his preoccupation,
he could not help thinking, made
her in her white robes ready for the sacrifice 

298 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

like an Iphigenia, turned into a ghastly pallor,
but still she held up bravely.

'No one,' she said, proudly, ' could traduce
me so vilely. What have I ever done to
make an enemy ? It is a mistake, Sire ; it cannot
be.'

Alas ! my child, Avhat have you done ?
Are you not lovely? And is not the very
tribute paid to worth and beauty, more than
envious souls can bear . A glass breathed upon
is sullied. A rough touch destroys the peach's
bloom ; the purple of the grape will bear no
handling. No explanations, no denials, avail incertain
cases. The less said the better. There
is nothing for it but to act, and to act promptly.
Your parents saw it as I did  hence your hasty
marriage.'

My hateful, unnecessary, cruel, hopeless
marriage ! ' she cried, bitterly.

It was the first word of self she had spoken.

Yes ; but marriage gives you freedom ;
marriage will silence the slanderers.'

I could have gone into a convent.'

And have you, then, no pity for me ? ' cried
the Emperor. ' Do you know what it is, can
you understand what it means, to be lonely and
loveless, without a friend, without a single

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS? 299

aspiration of 3oiir soul gratified or fulfilled ?
The sickening round of so-called pleasure, the
deadening round of endless duty, the eternal
self-same monotony of splendour and weariness !
Why, since that first hour I saw you, Helena,
my whole soul has been wholly, solely, and
absolutely yours. I guarded my lips and eyes,
to speak and look no praise that spies might
turn to your disadvantage. I endured the sight
of you, surrounded by admirers and flatterers,
and I kept at a distance, and never breathed a
word of the torments of love and jealousy that
were distracting my soul and embittering my
existence. At the risk of your despising me,
Helena, I confess that there have been moments
when I have even thought of laying aside the
sceptre and taking off the crown, and thus
escaping all the intolerable burthens which
Government binds upon the soul, of entreating
you to fly with me to some vestige, where we
might live a simple life of love and rational
occupation  a life of calm domestic bliss, a life
of sheltered privacy, untroubled with the cares
of State, untrammelled by the trappings of
office. But I dared not approach you ; your
spotless purity awed my unhappy passion into
silence, so that the very words of my wilder

300 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

moments died unframed and unspoken upon
my lips.'

Your Imperial Majesty might have spared
me this marriage.'

I could not.'

Or at least have given me a husband I
could respect.'

Respect and  love. No, Helena ! that, too,
I could not. That was beyond me. No man,
loving a woman as I love you, could do that.
But, in truth, I have given you liberty, and the
trammels are merely nominal. You are henceforth
absolutely your own mistress.'

And Count Perowsky ? '

Count Perowsky, after misleading One who
as the son of his sovereign should have been
sacred to him, after ruining himself with
gambling and sycophants, with rioting and
wastefulness, has put himself beyond the pale, by
appropriating Government funds to a very large
amount. I intervened between him and ruin.
I hold his life in the palm of my hand. I have
but to put down my finger to crush him. But
I abstain for your sake, and for yours only.
He is reduced to the nonentity of absolute
slavery. He lives, but he only exists ; and he
knows on what tenure  as the tool that shall

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 301

be needful to the skilled workman. He dare
not move a hand or foot, he dare not say his
soul is his own. He is a mere Thing. Xor
will he dare to deviate, by so much as a hair's-breadth,
fi'om the contract that binds him.
The world thinks him only a foolish young
fellow who has sown this wild oats, but who
now will ' range " himself on virtue's side, and
turn over a new leaf. You and he will remain
strangers. If he ever approaches you with
familiarity or insolence, if he dares to make
your will subservient to his own, you have but
to lift up your finger and he shall be removed
from your path. Nay, do not shrink. I do
not mean murder. There are a thousand ways.
Power has its privileges. The Governorship
of a distant province ; leave to travel ; the
honourable exile of a foreign Embassy, an
Appointment outre mer. Meanwhile, yesterday's
ceremony has silenced scandal. You are
established. You are absolute mistress of yourself
and your own actions. I witnessed the
ceremony without blanching. Helena I
what have I not endured for your sake ?
At least, say that the news I bring you is
welcome ! Say that you are glad to be
free ! '

302 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Aud M. de Perowsky ? ' Helena asked

again.

He knows that I am here, to see if he has
carried out his compact. He was informed of
the hour of my coming ; when I leave he will
know that you know all.'

And do you think, Sire, you dio are so
anxious for my reputation, that it will conduce
to my honour if the story of to-night  the
history of my marriage  should creep into
certain circles and be circulated in society ? '

It will not. It cannot. Precautions were
taken that your owen personal maid should be
detained e7i route. It was necessary that I
should see you, alone, untrammelled; that I
should explain the situation to you, and prove
to you, conclusively, that you had nothing to
fear. The people hereabouts are, for the most
part, little other than barbarians ; the few who
could tattle or gossip  dare not.'

I had no cause. Sire, to be afraid.'

But reassurance is better than doubt. You
might have been doubtful. The situation is at
least exceptional. I needed reassurance myself.
A man, with a heart in his body, would risk
ruin, disgrace, even death itself, for a womanlike
you. But this craven hound has kept his

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 303

word,  and will ! The suite of rooms through
which I entered are supposed to be his ; but
they are really mine. And yet voluntarily,
Helena,  without a word, without a petition, a
hinted reproach, or an expression of vexation
from you,  I promise never, after to-night, to
intrude upon your privacy without an express
permission. This once, it was necessary. I had
to convince myself that the compact was conscientiously
fulfilled ; I had to lighten your
heart of half its heavy bmxlen.'

Your Imperial Majesty has taken my fate,
my life, my destiny into your keeping.'

'Is it worse that they should be in my
keeping than in his ? Reflect. I have given
you Liberty, and established your reputation.'

But at what a cost ! '

And that is all you have to say to me ? 
Helena, have a little pity on my loneliness and
despair ; have a word of kindness for One who
throws himself on your generosity. Look at
me. The dead are not more cold, than the
woman I wedded in my youth is to me. My
uncles and cousins squander and intrigue, and
bring obloquy on me, and in the eyes of the
world I have to endorse their base actions, and
appear to approve their scandalous lives. My

304 AUl Caesar AUT NIHIL

children are rebellious, extravagant, headstrong,
and ungrateful. They have no sense of duty ;
yet them, too, I must seem to justify, and
approve. I, whose heart is overflowing with
tenderness towards the whole human race, with
whom the Enthusiasm of Humanity is a passion
rather than a principle, who hate war and look
on all official slaughter as an anachronism ; I,
who would gladly die in the service of my
country, who,  born in a private station, might
have figured as a philanthropic fanatic  I ama
mere puppet, forced by circumstances too
strong for me, to acquiesce in the wrong-doing
of others ; driven by causes overwhelmingly
powerful in their effects, to act in direct contradiction
to my distinct convictions ! I long
in my loneliness for the voice of a friend, for
the sympathy of an equal, for the encouragement
of a fellow-mind. And what have I?
What am I ? An Emperor, yet a lonely
wretch ; beggared of love and affection, world-weary,
heart-hungry and soul-sick, who begs
for a cup of water and a crust of bread in love's
name, and gets, in reply, a serpent and a stone.
Helena, say at least that you pity, if you
cannot love me ! '

Sire, I respect you, and your sorrows.

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 305

I am your loyal and obedient servant and
subject.'

And she knelt at his feet and kissed his
hand.

Be my friend, my guide, my counsellor,
my Egeria, whose gentle wisdom shall effect
her country's good ? ' cried the Emperor, raising
her in a transport of enthusiasm.

'Sire, my ambitions do not he in that
direction. I would suggest that it were a
gracious act now to leave me alone.'

'Farewell, Helena, since you will it so.
Your noble confidence in me shall never be
betrayed. A woman less single-minded, less
absolutely and stainlessly pure, might have
counterfeited the calm confidence which you
have really felt, yet not have had the cruel
courage to drive me away. And now, Goodnight
! '

According to wont and use, she again
bent low, but the Emperor raised her, and
lightly touching her forehead with his lips, asa
father might have done, he passed through
the door by which he came, without another
word.

At the dejeuner served to Count Perowsky
and his bride the following day, when the-vol.

I. X

3o6 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

servants had withdrawn a short dialogue took
place between the young couple.

I hope you passed an agreeable night,
madame.'

A most sad and terrible night ; for, as you
probably know, the peril in which you live
was totally unsuspected by me.'

Be easy, madame. Spare your pity. As
I shall not be led into temptation, the peril to
which you allude is purely imaginary.'

This with supercilious insolence.

There is peril even in insolence,' Helena
replied. ' Though I may not complain of it,
there is the chance of its being reported ; for,
in our unhappy country, everything is known.'

Yes. Damn the spies ! However, we
understand one another, madame, at last.'

I think you scarcely understand me,' she
said quietly. ' But that is an ignorance which
will be remedied by degrees.'

The ideal relationship which in his enthusiasm
the Countess Perowsky's Imperial lover
lead sketched with a flattering pencil was not
destined to last.

From loyalty to love, the way is not long.

By pleading and tenderness, by submission
and patience, the woman's heart was won at

A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS. 307

last. The Egeria of the fountain and the
grove became the companion and close friend,
the counsellor and fellow student, of the modern
Numb.

How is it, then, that still in the zenith of her
resplendent beauty Countess Helena Perowska
is climbing the stairs of the Nihilist conspirator's
obscure lodging ; in company with two women
not less resolute than herself?

It is difficult for the world at large to
understand the life of courts, the intrigues of
officials, the deadly ennui that eats into the very
heart of all the gorgeous shams and empty
shows, and renders null and void the hollows
splendour of this glittering routine.

Helena had grown to passionately adore
her Imperial protector.

Then had come a period of weakness and
suffering, and the physicians who prescribed
German baths declared that these must be
supplemented by a winter in the South. She
was longing for the early summer ; that would
bring her back to all her heart held dear.

But in Helena's rooms in the Winter Palace
a rival was installed  that rival a sister who, ten
years before, had been her favourite pet and
plaything in the nursery  full of rosebud

3o8 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

brothers and sisters  and who, now, at seventeen,
was the having, breathing counterpart of
what Helena herself had formerly been.

St. Petersburg gossips merely remarked, in
comment, that ' That family had ever been
devoted to the pleasures of their Imperial
masters.' The men were all brave and the
women all frail. Honours and emolument,
dignities and powers, rewarded the valour and
devotion, and perhaps the silence, of the men ;
whilst the traditions of the past pledged the
women to an acquiescence in all demands made
upon them in the name of any member of that
Imperial House, to which for generations they
had been so profoundly attached.

Count Perowsky enjoyed at length full
liberty to love his Countess, had he been so
inclined, the tattlers declared.

But the thoughts of both took another
direction, and the day for love's young dream
was past.

1! union fait la force  was their new motto ;
but the union alluded to was not that of
wedlock.

The man hated his Master, and was ready
to denounce him as a Tyrant.

The remembrance of his own misconduct,

'A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS: 309

and the clemency which had reduced his functions
to those of a tool, rankled within him.

The betrayed and outraged Woman in
Helena thirsted for vengeance.

It was her turn to make use of Perowsky
now; and he, for his part, was quite willing
to be made use of.

Chapter PAGE

XVII. Les Absents ont Toujours Tort . . . 1

XVIII. The Veiled Prophetess . . . .20

XIX. ' Let the Stricken Deer Go Weep . . 33

XX. Strolling Plates 42

XXI. Rebellion 69

XXII. Lord George Peril . . . .79

XXIII. A Clerical Error 101

XXIV. Solitude 137

XXV. A JcIYEDERLA ' 168

XXVI. < The Old Order Passeth Away' . .177

XXVII. Ivan and Chelsea . 224

XXVIII. Hidden Enmity 238

XXIX. Hero's Last Song 269

XXX. The Tchorni-Narod 294

AUT OESAB AUT NIHIL.

Chapter XVII.

LES ABSENTS ONT TOUJOURS TORT.

4 You are right, ma belle Helena Paulovna, but
I then you are one of the favoured of the earth.
Why, indeed, should you attempt to disguise
your loveliness ? '

It is not that, Julie. But as I am often in
this street on charitable quests, and as one of
my orphanages and the hospital I visit are in
the district, there is no earthly reason why I
should not be here one day as much as another ;
in one house as well as in another. It would
be preposterous in me to dress for the part 
the very way to attract the attention I wish to
avoid

Ah ! how often I have wearied of and rebelled
against all these precautionary measures,
and to no effect ! '

VOL. II. B

2 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

The Countess Perowsky is guided by
common sense ; what she says is perfectly
true,' puts in Mellin's inexpressive monotone.

I, for my part, never pretended to common
sense Madame de Kerezoff remarked
with some asperity.

'Because yours is uncommon, ma chere*
Helena answered with a smile and a suave
inflection of voice that seemed like the softest
of caresses. 'But we are not here to bandy
compliments. We are here in the interests of
the Cause.'

Is Kerezoff coming ? ' asked Mellin, looking
across at Julie.

Somehow the good understanding was not
so perfect amongst them as it might have been ;
as, in fact, it had been at an earlier period.
Kerezoff had shown himself to be refractory on
more than one occasion. ' I wish we could
get out of all this,' he had said to his wife,
and go and live quietly in France and Germany
for a few years. Where is the use of having
money, or of earning money, if it all goes like
this, and gives one no comfort? '

He was jealous, and ashamed, as an old
married man, the father of a family, to show
his jealousy. And it all led to nothing. One

LES ABSENTS ONT TO UJ OURS TORT. 3

expatriated oneself, and one subjected oneself to
vicissitudes of climate, and one endangered one's
career and one's health, and all to no purpose.
His wife's diamonds had gone ; and as often ashe
saw the paste that replaced them, he inwardly
fumed and fretted at the exaction and
sacrifices which he ought to have taken as a
matter of course. Why should it be suggested
that Prince Karishkin's millions of roubles would
only become a circulating medium at some
watchword known to no one but his, KerezofFs,
wife ? He had had his grievances, like the rest of
the world, but of late the Government had given
him no cause of complaint, and he would have
liked at length, after so many concessions, to
be quiet. He would lay down no more lines
of railway if all his emoluments were to go the
way of his wife's diamonds. It was very well
for Julie ; of course she had a grievance, but,
after all, her vengeance must, at best, be but
feeble and ineffectual, and would not, and
could not, repair the past.

Mellin, suspicious of Kerezoff, let fall to
Julie, now and again, a word pointed only too
clearly at the lily-livered lukewarmness of her
husband. Such words were secretly taken in
ill-part. ' It is all this preposterous exaggerate

2

4 AUT C&SAR AUT NIHIL.

tion of secrecy that wearies him, as it does me,'
she retorted. 'I should throw up the whole
thing myself, but '

That 'but' represented her sister, who,
cheated out of her bridegroom by a dissolute
Grand Duke, very much after the fashion that
Jacob was cheated of Leah, found herself,
the morning after her marriage, a widowed 4
wife, and worse still, an outraged and ruined
woman.

It was difficult to find any safe official form
for such a complaint as hers. To the lover,
who had been sent off ' on urgent political
affairs ' on his very wedding-day, she was
ashamed to write. They two, so she felt, could
never meet again. And, when at last she did
find a method of appealing to the world, and
public opinion pronounced against the Tarquin
lover, an action for treasonable slander was the
result. Overcome by her mingled despair and
the sense of baffled vengeance, the wretched
woman had shrieked out her curses, accusations
and threats against the Imperial family in the
open courts, after a fashion which soon put a gag
in her mouth, and manacles about her fragile
wrists, and sent her clanking at the tail of a
female gang, along the route of expiation to

LES ABSENTS ONT TOUJOURS TORT. 5

Siberia. Julie, her twin-sister, swore to avenge
the injured girl's cause ; and, from a frivolous
butterfly of fashion she became a woman,
worldly still, it is true, to outward appearance,
but inwardly the embodied spirit of implacable
revenge. She would hear of no lukewarmness,
she would suffer no treason ; she would sacrifice
husband and children if needs be ; but, having
put her hand to the plough which was to break
new ground for oppressed humanity, she would
not turn back, nor permit anyone belonging to
her so to turn.

For convents and the religious life, unlike
the lovely Countess Perowsky, she had no
vocation. ' No ! I must go into the world,'
she said, ' because in the world I have an
opportunity of spreading an ever-widening
circle of rebellion. I must use my opportunities
and work out, on comedy-lines, my grim drama
of vengeance.'

But she hated Mellin for divining her
husband's laggard spirit, and feared the consequences
to an innocent man of his suspected
lukewarmness, whilst she resented anything like
a jeer at Kerezoff's uxorious weakness.

The man who ought to have been her
brother-in-law, but was so in name only, never

6 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

came back to avenge his Lucretia's injured
honour. The dissolute Grand Duke was at the
head of the office in which the young man
worked, and therefore he had no choice but to
obey his superior's orders and go on the
appointed journey. A merciful fever shortened
his troubles ; and on hearing of his death  ' I
have inherited a double legacy of vengeance '
Julie said, and braced herself up to fresh
exertion. Of her sister she had now been long
without tidings. Bakounine had seen her
during the time of his Siberian exile, and had
even communicated with her by one of those
mysterious means known to prisoners only.
But Bakounine, long since dead, had been an
old man compared with the child-wife, whose
very youthfulness had made her remarkable
even amongst the many remarkable victims of
Official suspicion. Probably she would be no
longer recognisable even to her twin sister ;.
for, as Madame KerezofF was wont playfully
to observe, without her ' war-paint ' she was
already deep in the sere, the yellow of autumnal
life.

She may be dead,' KerezofF said to his
wife.

Dead or alive, vengeance is mine, and I

LES ABSENTS ONT TOUJOURS TORT. 7

will pay my just debts she answered, doggedly.
4 If Marie be really dead, all the more reason
that she and her sufferings should not be
forgotten.'

As to Paul Perowsky, there were no lengths
to which he was not prepared to go.

4 You want to punish your faithless lover ? '
he, with coarse directness, asked his wife,
when the public secret, which only her return
revealed to her, came to be spoken of between
them.

'I do.'

4 And your false sister ? '

4 Her, through him.'

4 There will be no whining and half-measures
when it comes to the point ? '

4 None.'

4 But how am I to know ? '

4 It is not for you to know, though you
may know it. I have taken the oaths of
the Society.'

4 But there are oaths of three grades.'

4 1 have taken them all. I am pledged.'

Then I will help you.'

And Perowsky, who harboured an undying
resentment against his Imperial master for his
unforgiving forgiveness in that matter of the

8 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

appropriated millions, with whom it still rankled
that his wife had been set over him, the mistress
of his fate, the possessor of his degrading secret ;
who raged at the thought of being called a nonentity,
a tool, a slave, a ' thing,' by the boon
companions whose jests were not always
flavoured with delicacy, was prepared to carry
out retribution to the bitter end.

As for her  gracious, lovely, smiling, and
inscrutable  she opened her doors to the world,
and, her life being all her own, devoted herself
to society as a means to an end.

Society said it was ill-health, delicacy,
inability to bear late hours, that had kept
Helena Perowska so long secluded at Semonow.
No allusion was made to Katchaloff; and if her
return to St. Petersburg celebrated her downfall
on the one hand, on the other, her life was
one long procession of social triumphs. She
became the fashion, and, for once, courtiers
forgot to be sycophants, and forsook the
throne-room for Countess Helena Perowska's
at homes.'

She never went to Court.

Gracious messages reached her from various
female members of the Imperial family, but she
begged, on the score of delicate health, to be

LES ABSENTS ONT TO UJ OURS TORT. 9

received during the forenoon hours, privately,
and her plea was unquestioningly accepted.

Of course it was known and understood
that every night her drawing-rooms were
thronged with a representative crowd, which
revolved round her as its centre, and of which
she walked the queen.

Her days were devoted to good works.
She had a past to expiate, and her piety, deeply
tinged with mysticism, became a strange compound
of bigotry and rebellion.

Had things gone well with her, as once she
had believed they would, she would have felt
no pang or scruple as to her Egeria relationship
to this modern Numb. Her heart  pure,
virgin-gold  had, in the first instance, been
won to tenderness through loyalty to family
traditions and sympathy with her lover's
pathetic plea of crowned loneliness. If she
could comfort that aching heart, soothe that
troubled spirit, bring peace and companionship,
home joys, gentle interests and simple pleasures
into that barren, solitary, loveless life, surely it
was well that petty scruples should not prevent
the accomplishment of the miracle. If she
could make the desert of an arid heart to
rejoice and blossom like the rose, it was not

io AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

for selfish calculations, would-be virtue, or
worldly prudence to count the cost. For how
much was He not already blamed of which he
was utterly blameless ?

She would injure no one, nor usurp any
other woman's rights. The long entombed
were not more dead to him than the wife to
whom the Law and the Church had bound him
years ago.

There was a saint the more, and a woman
the less, since the Empress had declared that
she would live, as nearly as possible, the
life of a cloistered nun, and had renounced
definitively the fiction and the fetters of wifehood.
And Helena had, in very truth, been
to him as the Egeria he had pictured in his
pleadings. She had softened him ; she .had
urged the cause of mercy and longsufFering
against the extreme measures of the harsh,
official persecutors by whom he was surrounded,
and whose cruelties were, by a false
semblance, made to appear his own.

Apart from the irregularity of the tie, her
relationship had been, so she thought, as
blameless and harmless as it had been happy.
It had been for the people's good, and it had
saved from despair, and from the haunted

LES ABSENTS ONT TO UJ OURS TORT, n

hypochondria of lovelessness and suspicion, the
Father of his people.

In the very earliest days of his romantic
passion, she had shown the tenderness of her
nature and the largeness of her sympathies
by throwing herself heart and soul into the
people's cause ; and, despite the opposition of
his nobles, despite his native timidity of
character, the Sovereign carried out the
beneficent day-dream of his youth, and gave
freedom to twenty two millions of his faithful
subjects.

The dying Nicholas had, by implication,
given his consent to the emancipation of the
serfs. ' The present system will last my time,'
he said to the hot and angry disputants ; * those
who come after me can do as they choose.'

Despite the story of shameless peculations,
reckless extravagance, and barefaced robbery in
his own peculiar department, General Miloutine
was liberal-minded enough, after the bitter experience
of the Crimean war and the consequent
humiliation felt throughout the Empire,
to press upon his Imperial master the necessity
of stringent army reform. Helena joined
her prayers to his, and urged that respect for
his august sire's memory would not be best

12 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

shown by perpetuating blunders, but rather by
causing the remembrance of them to perish.

Military service was made compulsory, but
the private soldier was taught to read and
write, and was obliged to serve only six years,
after which he was put upon the reserved list,
and served yet another five years in the
militia ; at the end of that time he was discharged
; and carried the fruits of education,
experience, habits of order, cleanliness, and
punctuality into civil life with him, thus
increasing the general stock of material comfort
and education. Other concessions spared the
career of professional men the terrible loss of
time, and the consequent laborious study, by
which they had to make up for periods spent
in military duty, whilst the term of their
service was reduced to a minimum.

All these reforms made in the noblest spirit
of enlightenment and toleration, slowly and by
imperceptible degrees, yet none the less surely,
formed the basis of that more widely-spread
civilisation which has been the acknowledged
need of Russia since Peter the Great first awoke
to a sense of the barbarism which made his
country the by word of Europe.

In these, as in all educational and social

LES ABSENTS ONT TO UJ OURS TORT. 13

reforms, Helena Perowska lent her enthusiastic
aid on the side of progress. It was her day-dream
that her Sovereign Master's name should
be the watchword of beneficence, reform, and
humanity. No ignoble ambition. And if even
these concessions failed to satisfy the disaffected,
it was, she told him, because they expected
impossibilities of one man, and because in their
blind cavillings they failed to recognise the
immense legacy of ignorance, abuse, and corruption
which he had inherited with sceptre
and crown.

Ardent, romantic, and worshipping a dual
divinity in the man whose nature seemed to
her godlike, and whose power was illimitable,
whose mercy, ' mightiest in the mightiest ever
tempered justice, who was an Autocrat, knowing
neither ' self ' nor ' will less the Emperor
than the Father of his people  the woman
poured out the whole treasure of her devotion
at his feet, and knew neither scruple nor
fear.

And yet all this had proved null and void,
vain and of no effect  through no fault of
hers, through no loss of his admiration, no
forfeiture of his esteem, but simply through the
mischance of her prolonged absence.

14 AUT L\SAR AUT NIHIL.

Faithful in absence that .weak, vacillating,
insufficient nature could not be.

At once sentimental and material, it required
the perpetual presence, the sympathy,
the charm of touch, the force of contact, the
influence of the person beloved, to realise all
the value of that guiding, saving power which
is to some natures as the breath of life in the
nostrils.

Helena Perowska absent, her liege was
listless ; then, on a fatal day, when his heart-emptiness
and his brain-apathy were more than
ordinarily apparent and oppressive to him, he
saw Zoe Gourokowsky, and Helena was forgotten
!

To him, in his self-deception, it seemed that
he had only found Helena herself again, yet
found her with a difference. It was a softer,
sillier, more childish (though not more innocent)
Helena.

She, the absent one, had always, even in
the heyday of her brilliant youth, been serious,
sweet and serene, but serious with an air of
gentle dignity and wisdom  a grave earnestness
about her that was only not severe because so soft
and soothing in its womanly grace. And she,
this young goddess, this Pallas Athens, this

LES ABSENTS Ont TOUJOURS TORT. 15

willing sacrifice, this latter day Iphigenia, this
wise, modest, enthusiastic devotee, the Egeria
of his solitary dreams, had perhaps been a little
too consistently perfect, too uniformly flawless
in her conduct and conclusions. A dash of
espieglerie, a trifle of coquetry, a touch of
daring, a pout to-day, a shrewish word tomorrow,
a caprice the next day, might have
relieved the dull monotony of perfection.

One grievance, indeed, Helena herself
imagined her Imperial lover might have
against her. She was childless, and now 
now that her eyes were opened  she told herself
that the Divine wrath had manifested itself
after this fashion, and that what, in the exaltation
of her feelings, she had mistaken for a
mission, was in truth a Satan-inspired sin, to
be expiated by lifelong propitiatory sacrifices.
But to make expiation by good deeds, by
helping the sick and poor, by orthodox
penitential observances, could only express one
half of Helena Perowska's mind ; of what she
herself would have called the religious, and
her enemies have designated the bigoted side
of her character.

In her there was another and a stronger
woman, and that other woman, in the name of

16 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

outraged love and desecrated worship, indignantly
invoked exemplary vengeance.

There were plenty of people about her
ready to make such vengeance both possible
and plausible. It was to be wreaked in the
name of suffering humanity, and if private
wrongs were avenged at the same time with
public grievances, there could be no reason
to object to the comprehensiveness of the
final retribution that would overtake the
offender.

6 My impulse was to hurl his gifts in his
face,' she said, when she told her husband how
her late liege had sent emissaries, with lands,
and gold, and jewels, and conciliatory message s
to appease her indignation.

8 But you did not ? '

'No. I had to lay it before the Executive*

4 1 should have been for the hurling.'

4 And so was I  but '

< Well ? '

4 It was ordered otherwise. There is a refinement
of vengeance in using Government
money to compass the downfall of Government.
To print and publish a man's misdeeds, at that
man's own expense, but without his knowledge,
is an exquisite satire on "such shabby gene-les

ABSENTS ONT TOUJOURS TORT. 17

Tosity as can think gold will salve the wound
that honour feels." '

Still, I would rather have flung such
largesse back at the emissaries who were his
instruments.'

1 So would I, only that there could be no
such flinging. This will be slower, but it
will also be surer. His money, his gifts and
his treachery, as birds come home to roost,
will all come back to him, only in another
form.'

On the present occasion both ladies had
brought large sums of money to Mellin's garret.
There was much activity amongst the brethren
just now, and an important meeting was to
come off shortly, but as yet the day had not
been fixed.

I must take some of your Irons and
medals for my orphans,' Countess Perowsky
said, leaning over the pedlar's open pack that
lay upon the table beneath the dirt-begrimed
window.

Julie, as she had come with the Countess,
and therefore, might, on this occasion, be
supposed to merely accompany her friend in
her good works, wore a simple brown costume,
not intended in any sense as a disguise. They

vol. 11. c

1 8 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

had arrived together, and together they would
depart.

Then we shall hear when the lots are to
be drawn ? '

Of course. You must be present. It
might fall to you, if fate were kind, to draw
the highest number.'

And your Englishwoman ? What of
her ? ' Julie asked shrewishly.

What Englishwoman ? I love Englishwomen,'
said the lovely Eussian, in her full
plaintive voice ; ' they are so independent, so
happy, so unsuspicious, so free ! '

s I do not think the Martello, or her
Martellina either, are particularly happy, independent,
or free,' Julie went on. ' Unsuspicious,
I suppose, I must concede, as far as
Madame Hero is concerned,' and she laughed
not very pleasantly, her eyes fixed on Mellin's
pale, expressionless face.

Later, as she went along with the Perowsky
on her charitable way, she told her the whole
history of the Sprudelheim combination. ' But
the mother, so far as politics are concerned, is
not in it,' she said, as she came to an end.
4 1 half suspect Mellin of a romantic passion
for her. We shall see. As for the girl, she is a

LES Absent ONT TOUJOURS TORT. 19

little fool ; but she is useful with regard to the
money question, and might be made still more
so, if one could trust to her discretion.'

I am glad you have told me about them.
I feel I ought to know all the women who are
affiliated to our branch. One can do so much
more when one knows the materials one has to
work with.'

Yes ! By the way, we quite wore out the
patience of the veiled prophetess. Did you
notice that Mellin was almost obsequious in his
manner to her? There must be something
new on the horizon.'

'Mellin knows what he is about, my dear
little Kerezoffska ; but, forgive me, the service
has already begun,' and the Countess signing
to her coachman to stop, alighted nimbly,
waving her hand to Julie as she slid beneath
the heavy curtained door of the church of St.
Nicholas.

Julie de KerezofF, with a contemptuous
smile upon her thin, straight lips, threw herself
back in the carriage, which bore her swiftly on
her solitary and unorthodox way.

c 2

20 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL

Chapter XVIII.

THE VEILED PROPHETESS.

Past the Erbsen Street and the Wosnesenk
Street, past the Isaac Church with its great
gilded dome, past the Isaac Bridge, and the
statute of Peter the Great, with its inscription
of sublime and arrogant simplicity : ' Catherine
III. to Peter I.,' Julie Kerezoff went on her
way, not exactly rejoicing.

Her way led her past the four Admiralty
quarters to what is called the ' English Quay,'
whence she crossed to the opposite bank, and
thus gained the Quay of Wassily-Ostrow, on
which island her home was situated.

The colossal sphinxes, brought from Egypt,
and placed in front of the Academy of Arts on
this superb promenade, suggested a train of
thought to the energetic little lady which it
may not be uninteresting to follow.

THE VEILED PROPHETESS. 21

So long as she had been in an obscure
quarter of the town  where Eussian and
Kalmuck, Tartar, Cossack, Finnish and Jewish
physiognomies, in endless different shades and
varieties, tell of the mixed working population
 it had been necessary that she should
avail herself of her friend's carriage ; for no
Eussian lady walks in St. Petersburg, unless it
be upon the Quays ; least of all a person who
desires to escape observation. But, as she
turned into the magnificent southern Perspective,
she called to the coachman to stop, and
hastily alighted. She stood for a moment
looking about her like one who is at home in
his own quarter of the town. Not that she
wished to meet friends or neighbours ; on the
contrary, she desired if possible to avoid such,
their probable questionings and possibly embarrassing
comments.

St. Petersburg was enjoying one of those
ninety-seven days of sunshine which chary
Nature has assigned as her portion of annual
solar brightness. The Neva had broken up
late that year, and it was now the middle of
May ; but the few days of Eussian spring could
scarcely be said to have yet commenced.

The islands, with gardens, groves, avenues

22 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

and country-houses, afforded an almost fairylike
prospect in the low afternoon sunlight.
The trees were thickening in branch and bud ;
a greyish-green line showed that vegetation
would spring to light as by magic should the
sun's rays be consistently warm and penetrating
for a few consecutive days. The vast expanse
of the shining Neva, the transparent beauty
of its calm waters, the feathery, neutral-tinted
vegetation of Petroffski, Christoffski, Wassily-
Strow, Kammeni-Ostrow, Pelagian, and their
distant brethren, hanging as it were 'twixt
heaven and earth ; the grand Perspective, the
noble Admiralty buildings, the quays, the
bridges, the gilded cupolas and copper domes
of churches and palaces, the vastness and
space, and, above all, the majestic calm which
seemed to overlie the Imperial glories of the
Neva city, inspired even the superficial Julie
with a feeling of awe and reverential enthusiasm.


A proverb says that St. Petersburg is the
pride of the Eussian, but that Moscow lies next
his heart. However that may be, St. Petersburg
is typical of the autocratic will which conjured
a mighty city out of a desolate swamp,
untrodden of the foot of man, save by stray

THE VEILED PROPHETESS. 23

Finland hunters haunting its gloomy morasses,
or by solitary Tschoude fishers  sweeping the
shallows with their nets, or patiently punting
their primitive canoes through the channels of
primeval watercourses  dark solitary figures
on the brown plain ; the distant horizon as yet
unbroken by dome or tower ; nature savage
and silent, but for the cry of the bittern or the
chattering of the crane ; save for the whirr of
wings, the flight of wild-fowl, or the flutter of
feathers high in mid air, as the stork steers
southwards, clapping his beak with a weird
and hollow rattle, in his pilgrimage through the
dark and melancholy skies. A Campagna without
its glories ; a prairie without its fauna or
its flora ; a dismal swamp, mysterious, inscrutable,
hereafter to be illumined by the
sign-manual of one man's semi civilised, semi-barbaric
genius, and to bear his name thenceforth
for ever, throughout long ages to come.

There are benches for pedestrians on the
quays, but it would never have occurred to
Madame de KerezofF to rest on one of the great
circular stone seats. To linger or loiter was to
run the risk of question and remark. How
came she to be on foot, and alone? And if
the Countess Perowsky had the manie of

24 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

church-going, why had she not sent her friend
home in the carriage that was probably waiting
outside the church doors for the thoughtless
devotee ?

The vast, beautiful city, with its shining
waters and gilded temples, so silent in its-expanse,
was in harmony with the inscrutable
sphinxes which had seen, unmoved, the glories
of ancient dynasties pass away, and the procession
of immemorial races disappear, and
made no sign of sympathy with the sorrowful
succession of humanity. The secrets of St.
Petersburg or the enigmas of Egypt, it was
all the same to their far-sighted, unseeing stone
gaze  mystic, wonderful, which no man may
divine.

Who can she be ? What is the truth
about her ? ' Julie asked herself, as she recognised
a curious affinity between the silence
of the city, the individual of her thoughts,
and the Egyptian guardians of the Academy
of Arts.

It had been part of her business to call,
on her way to the rendezvous with Mellin, at
a great English mercantile house on the English
quay, and now, on her road homeward, she had
to deliver a sealed note from Mellin, probably

THE VEILED PROPHETESS. 25.

a receipt for the large sum of money entrusted
to her care.

It need scarcely be said that Messrs. Hill,.
Hardcastle, and Simcox knew nothing of the
nature of the business of which they were the
unconscious agents. Far more difficult and
delicate matters than these were arranged by
the subtle-minded leaders of the party, and
their unsuspicious tools never divined the
improbabilities, which were skilfully made to
assume an air of vraisemblance.

They called the lady of Julie Kerezoff's
thoughts 'the veiled prophetess' in jest. Her
very nationality was an enigma, though she
herself made no mystery of it. Some declared
that her nickname arose from the fact of her
occasionally affecting the Spanish style in the
shape of a mantilla of costly black lace, from
the filmy folds of which a deep red or yellow
rose peeped forth with bewitching coquetry.

Her name was Esther Eodostamos. She
was an orphan. She was favourably viewed at
Court, though no one knew exactly why. It
was reported that her father, a Greek banker,
had been the useful and faithful financial agent
of past and present Sovereigns. Imperial
difficulties and donations, largesses and loans, it

26 AUT C.-ESAR AUT NIHIL.

was said, had been Rodostamo's special care.
But he had now been dead many years, and
Esther never alluded gratuitously to his connection
with the Imperial family. That her means
were ample, her manner of life showed. She
travelled much, but she spoke of St. Petersburg
as ' home,' and declared herself to be ' a Russian
of the Russians.' What this might mean was
not quite clear. Her loyalty to the reigning
dynasty could scarcely be suspected, much less
impugned. She had received distinguished
marks of personal favour from more than one
Imperial personage.

A Sclav of the Sclavs ' she could not mean
to designate herself. Her birth and parentage
rendered that impossible, for reasons hereinafter
to be seen.

Scandal had never touched her, and gossip,
even in the country of cards and potius, had
only meddled harmlessly with her name. Her
life was spent in public privacy. She never
denied herself to visitors. Her well-ordered,
cheerful, and yet subdued domesticity, was
distinctly edifying to those admitted to her
intimacy. Her friends were wont to declare
that they went away strengthened and refreshed
after an hour passed in her modest,

THE VEILED PROPHETESS. 27

homelike apartments, where books and flowers
and pet animals showed something of the
gentle mind of their mistress, and offered an
ensemble, at once more intimate, more soothing,
and more endearing than upholstery alone, how
superb or correct soever, can compass.

So far, Julie had not sought the personal
friendship of Esther Eodostamos, though she
had met her in St. Petersburg society, and
knew her to be affiliated to the circle of
which she herself was a member. At Mellin's
they met, and spoke, and parted, all without
disguise ; but on the more important occasions
of an official gathering the men and women of
the Association were alike so thickly masked,
that it was impossible to recognise the identity
of the different members. Their very voices,
if not artificially disguised, were so changed by
the mask and veil that it was next to impossible
to detect the individuality of the speaker.
On one or two of these occasions, a woman
had risen, and, with a vehement enthusiasm,
had combated certain views of the Society,
speaking as one inspired, under the irresistible
influence of impassioned conviction. She had
passed from reprehension to scorn, from scorn
to the tenderest pleadings, and, finally, had

28 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

paused, after a last appeal, which supplied the
oue touch of nature ' that, if only it be manifest,
unfailingly seals the kinship of humanity.
Opposition had, for the time, been silenced.

Not even the President of the section to
which Julie Kerezoff and the Countess
Perowsky belonged was known to them. He,
too, was completely masked and disguised. It
would be quite possible for their president to bo
changed continually, and no one be any the
wiser. Since all subordinates were sworn to
absolute obedience and secrecy, it mattered little
at whose hands the commands were dealt forth.
The verdict once pronounced, each member
being a mere instrument in the hands of the
Society, neither appeal nor protest was possible.

Madame de Kerezoff suspected the eloquence
the masked lady to be fairly attributable to
the mysterious Esther Eodostamos, and, her
feminine curiosity being piqued, she resolved
to watch her attentively on all future occasions,
and by the inflection of her voice, the turn of
her sentences, some familiar trick of speech,
such as all unconsciously use, to identify her,
and ascertain beyond doubt whether she were,
indeed, the masked heroine of the oration.

Such an occasion had presented itself to-day.

THE VEILED PROPHETESS. 29

Tht the ' veiled prophetess ' (as yet the weather
<hd not permit of the fanciful mantilla) in a
prosaic English tailor-made costume, with hat
to match, looking an everyday young woman
enough, except that such beauty as hers is
scarcely vouchsafed to everyday humanity, had
not given her the opportunity she sought.
With an air of reserved, yet graceful courtesy,
she had bowed to the Countess Perowsky and
her companion, drawing back to let them pass ;
then, with a friendly smile and familiar wave of
the hand to Mellin, as much as to say ' Place
aux dames I My business can wait ; attend
first, my friend, to these great ladies,' had seated
herself somewhat apart in the shadow, taking
a book from her pocket, and apparently giving
herself up to its intent perusal.

The Countess Perowsky had, after her usual
graceful, winning fashion, endeavoured to include
the stranger in their conversation ; but,
the amenities of the great lady responded to,
Esther Eodostamos had again applied herself
to her volume of poems.

Then, when they were leaving, Helena
Perowska had approached her with a few
cordial words.

I hear wonderful things of you,' she said,

30 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

smiling ; k my poor people tell me of generous
sympathy, of gifts, and of aid and counsel such
as would put me to the blush could I feel anything
but admiration for my coadjutor and
rival.'

6 I might return the compliment,' said
Esther ; 4 but then, Countess, you would indeed
blush ; for the charm of charity such as yours
lies in its modesty, in the fact that the
right hand knows not what the left does, although
I know full well how helpful are both
those little hands to all in need.'

4 Come and see me,' the Countess cried impulsively,
evidently pleased, flattered, charmed,
your approval delights me. I dare not offer
myself to your acquaintance, for I am told in
your house one meets only Ames d? elite > but we
ought to see more of one another, we have
so much in common. It would be a graceful
act, a real kindness on your part, to come and
see me, for although I live in a crowd I am
much alone.' And her beautiful eyes looked
deep into Esther's mysterious orbs.

4 You" almost encourage me to take you at
your word,' she replied, simply.

Do, do ! ' insisted the Countess, ; you will
confer on me the greatest favour and she and

THE VEILED PROPHETESS. 31

Julie, nodding farewell to Mellin at his desk,
passed down the stairs.

Why did you hang back ? Why did you
not respond ? ' Mellin asked. His tone expressed
none of the reproach his words conveyed.
She was very pressing, very cordial, and she
meant it.'

6 1 should expect her to be doubly cordial,
doubly considerate to ???,' Esther replied,
1 She is a Countess and I am not. Therefore
she is bound to be all the more polite and
considerate

I thought you were above that sort of
thing ; in anyone else I should call it snobbishness,'
Mellin answered, still in the same cold,
expressionless manner, writing as he spoke.

I am never above respect or self-respect,
and there is nothing snobbish in that,' Esther
answered. ' She must feel it to be, as she
says, an advantage to know me, otherwise these
are mere phrases. If it be no advantage, then
it is clearly a disadvantage. It is not for me
to appraise my own value; but it is for me
to provide that everyone who knows me shall
set a distinct value on my acquaintance. If she
means anything more than passing politeness
we shall have opportunities of meeting. If

32 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

nothing, she will thank me later on for my
discretion, and like me all the better for
sparing her embarrassment ; and even you
must confess that that is better than a mental
reproach on her part, or that I should take the
shibboleth of society for a solemn profession of
esteem and faith.'

As you like,' Mellin answered wearily ;
affaire de femme ! it seems to me your sex
enjoys making life difficult. I know nothing
of their caprices and refinements.'

But Esther did not take up the gauntlet.
The business she had come upon, had yet to be
transacted, and when that was done she rose to
take her leave.

You will hear from me before the month
is out,' Mellin said. ' We live in anxious times,
and I am warned to be specially careful, so that
it will probably be at some new address ; but
you know the sign, and you will not leave St.
Petersburg without hearing from me.'

 I am always at your service,' she answered ;
and added, putting out her hand, ' a Anglaise !
It always seems to me that one is pledged to
loyalty by the pressure of palm to palm.'

Good-bye,' Mellin said gloomily.

4 Or rather  au revoir I ' and she was gone.



Chapter XIX.

'LET THE STRICKEN DEER GO WEEP.'

We seem to have wandered far from our
poor little passionate Bianca and her desolate
mother, sitting heart-stricken amongst the shattered
gods of her household. Far from prosaic
every-day life in middle-class London, where the
monotony of parallel porticoes, and the multiplication
of uniform scrapers, suggests a dead
level of fate, daily contradicted in the most conclusive
manner by social revelations.

The poor we have always with us. Welcome
or unwelcome, the perennial incubus abides.
But often as the thoughtful pedestrian walks
through streets and squares where wealth is
the first consideration of being, he marvels at
the inevitable and heart-rending histories which
experience teaches him are being played out
within those inexpressive portals. Those screens
of stone and brick  whose glassy eyes, multi-vol.

II. D

34 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

plied like the orbs of Argus, look out with
peacock-pride devoid of ' speculation ' on the
passer by  may hide horrors even the most
hideous.

A bank of flowers, a stained-glass allegory,
screen the sacred interior from the
merest passing curiosity, and, perhaps, conceal
heart-breaking family trouble ; but silently,
surely, slowly, in mansion after mansion the
resting Fates are weaving the web of Destiny ;
and what we, in our haste, condemn as frivolity
in the butterflies of fashion, may be but heroism
in another form, nobly doing duty for the
nonce in place of sackcloth and ashes ; silent
endurance donning the garb of idle folly ; sublime
self-sacrifice making believe that ' motley
is the only wear.'

We have come in these later days to doubt,
disbelieve, and discredit much that our forefathers
and forefathers accepted with a simple
and appreciative faith. A couple of generations
ago the belted earl and the scornful lady, the
glitter of courts, and the pageantry of jousts
and tournaments were considered necessary
adjuncts of poetry and chivalrous sentiment.
Nowadays there is a run on humble heroines
and self-made heroes, and a wide-spread inlet

THE STRICKEN DEER GO WEEP: 35

credulity as to the prevalence of the softer
passions. The heart is not supposed to beat
beneath a Worth-made gown or a Poole-inspired
suit ; and en the stage the emotion of young
lovers not infrequently raises a horse-laugh.

Some of our latter-day prophets even go sofar
as to preach a pessimistic programme of
gloomy tidings for the rich and cultured, who
because rich and cultured are incapable of the
most rudimentary of human virtues ; whilst as
optimistic apostles they proclaim the propaganda
of a proximate good time coming for
corduroy and fustian, wherein the monopoly
of virtue dwelleth for evermore. The woes of
the poor are great, but hopeful ; for them
there is a remedy ; for them sympathy beats
in noble breasts ; for them there is balm in
Gilead, for them a physician is there. Education,
philanthropy, a higher standard, more
books and less beer, emigration, the force
of ' banded unions ' in the cause that is just,
the proud realisation of an independence that
once seemed a dim and distant dream, or
was not so much as dreamed  these, and such
as these, are the heartening possibilities that
make of every poor man's life a potential
romance, depending upon himself, on his
d 2

36 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

earnestness of purpose and singleness of mind
for realisation. And what but class-prejudice
can deny that the more generous outlook has
extended, and must increase the aggregate of
human happiness ?

With the rich  so called  things have a
different outlook. They have, or had, in a
modified degree, their riches. But they have
not (or only partially and individually have)
the old unconditional, picturesque sympathy
and respect of their social inferiors.

They themselves are conscious of a sliding
scale of measurement, of a ' slipping away ' of
things that once seemed firm as the rock, stable
as the structure of the earth itself. For them
there is less scope and less outlook ; they are
hampered by a thousand social prejudices, perplexities,
parables, and pledges, and must needs
remain passive, since activity, of the winning,
dominant order, seems to have become the
prerogative of men of another stamp and
another class, men of tougher fibre, rougher
build, less delicate susceptibilities. The old
order change th and giveth place to the new ;
and there is an almost passionate demand for
truth and reality, for honest prose in place of
ornamental poetry.

'LET THE STRICKEN DEER GO WEEP.' 37

Even in Art, it is the homely, the every-day,
the so-called ' prosaic ' that triumphs. Peasant
women walking in the twilight of the poppy-fields
after the labours of the day. Fisher-women
making and mending nets on the
sea-shore. The Sabbath evening of toil, as seen
in workhouse wards and almshouse porches ;
the rough faces, lined and seamed, of old naval
and military pensioners. Ploughed fields, grey
skies, low horizons, pollard trees bordering the
familiar common of the tramp or gipsy, riverside
scenes and a low-lying country, rural
lanes ; the every-day story of labour and rest, of
toil and struggle, of seed-time and harvest, the
life that is lived around us, humble, modest,
even obscure, but such as we know it.

These, with their sentiment and inspiration
drawn from the every-day history of countless
thousands, are the scenes which our young
artists, of preference, depict. Tragedy and
blank verse, high art and heroics have gone
out, and if Shakespeare no longer ' spells ruin '
in London, country managers might tell us that
in the provinces it is still synonymous with
insolvency.

If to the rich be denied all picturesqueness,
unless it be the qualified picturesqueness of

38 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

the fashion-book, or the follies of ,
how much less picturesque, suggestive y
or inviting is the life just below that of the
ostensibly opulent  the life of the great middle-class
masses  above want, beyond care, and
yet bound by all the petty traditions of a long
inheritance of would-be ' gentility ' ! The mean
ambitions, the vulgar aspirations, the coarse
contempt and uncultured ridicule of those a
step, or it may be several steps, lower in the
social scale, hardening their hearts, snubbing
their noses, and widening their mouths from
generation to generation of prosperous shopkeeping,
gig-driving, face-grinding, and money-grubbing
progenitors, present an aggregate of
complacent and unlovely ignorance, appalling
to contemplate.

As we walk past houses such as those inhabited
by Hero, by Mrs. Fitzgerald, and by the
Hudsonss, we are apt to give our imagination therein,
and their harmless inhabitants the go-by.
Higher or lower, Fancy seeks its sphere ; but
not in the homes of the dull, decent unsympathetic,
more or less moneyed, eminently
respectable British middle class, with its dull
selfishness and petty outlook.

And yet Hero, as we left her in her bare,

 ET THE STRICKEN DEER GO WEEP: 39

regulation drawing-room, might have posed
for a Niobe lamenting the loss of her jealousy-slain
offspring; or a Eachel refusing to be
comforted, because her children were not.
For the first time in her life she recognised
the fact that it is in the nature of things the
young should show ingratitude. ' She had not
been ungrateful,' she told herself, in this hour
of desolation ; recognising, for the hundredth
time, how much had gone out of her life with
the sympathy of that now silent soul, to which,
during long, troublous years, she had instinctively
turned in every sorrow, and never
turned in vain.

She was to leave things to Fitz.

But meanwhile a horrible uncertainty possessed
her as to how far Bianca had, in truth,
come under alien influences ; how far she was
pledged to the writer of that strange letter,
the very brevity of which argued a certain
familiarity, dispensing with all formalities ;
almost, it might be said, arguing an easy disregard
of the recipient's feelings, and a calm
indifference to them on the writer's part. She
only recognised how grateful was the surrounding
silence to her sorely exercised spirit,
when she imagined the torrent of voluble abuse

40 A UT CAESAR A UT NIHIL.

that would rush from Mr. Owen's lips were he
informed of the extraordinary raid upon the
sacred privacy of domestic life, made by persons
whose meddling he would regard as an
outrage that only counter-insult could avenge.

So Hero sat behind her blank walls, the
stone screen between herself and the street,
the blank window-eyes blindly vacant, telling
nothing to the thousands of passers-by, nor, for
the matter of that, even to friends, though
never so friendly, had such come her way.
For the moment, at least, her vole was a passive
one. She must possess her soul in patience,
and await the event.

With the instinct of some wounded animal
she shrank thankfully into her solitude. ' The
stricken deer ' must ' go weep ; ' only ' The
hart uncalled ' has the privilege of play, ' For
4 some must watch and some must weep, Thus
runs the world away.' Once, for a moment,
her thoughts turned to Graham, but for a
moment only.

A woman, unless she be entirely at one
with her lover, is more reticent with him
on certain nice points regarding family honour
than with all the world besides. Graham must
think absolutely well of Bianca. Graham,

'LET THE STRICKEN DEER GO WEEP. 41

whose standard was so high that he had
whispered to her, with an apology for his
fastidiousness, an avowal that of all womankind
he had met in his wanderings to and fro
son the face of the earth, her own perfect
mother, with her large heart, far-seeing judgment,
and gentle nature, had come nearest to
his conception of what the ideal woman ought
to be. Graham would have no understanding
for the escapades of a young girl. Graham
she would probably see now less than ever,
her mother's abiding presence in the house
no longer sanctioning his occasional appearance
there.

But friends drift apart, and men are fickle,
and fate unkind, Hero told herself in the
depression of her first despair, declaring bitterly
that henceforth her portion must be loneliness
and unavailing regret, veiled by effort and
industry, though it might, nay even eventually
must and should be. Fortunately, Fitz was
strong and self-assertive enough, she thought, to
take matters, without much injury to himself,
into his own hands ; and on his loyalty, as on
his merciful judgment and kindly tact, she could
implicitly rely.

42 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

CHAPTER XX.

STROLLING Players.

Mrs. Fitzgerald who, for some time previously.,
had been putting forth tentative efforts at a
measure of conciliation which should not involve
too great sacrifice of pride on her part,
thought herself well served by the catastrophe
that cast Bianca on her hospitality.

Life was somewhat dull with her. She did
not see much of her son, and with even the scant
intercourse circumstances afforded, she realised
more fully each time he left her that her power
and influence were on the wane. She had no
authority either to restrain him or to oppose
his will ; she scarcely had the power, so imperturbable
was his good temper, to annoy him.
She could not make up her mind as to whether
the ' Owen-worship ' were an accomplished factor
whether it might be but the vain chimera of
her own jealous imagination. As with many

STROLLING PLAYERS. 43

women of her age and character, her animosity
was chiefly directed against the person whose
individuality stood on the same level with her
own. She had hated Mrs. Owen as a pretty
woman, of whom the doctor always spoke with
that latent smile of pleasurable appreciation
which betrays a silent satisfaction in the agreeable
object of the passing, it may be momentary,
contemplation. She despised her as a ' papist
benighted in worse than heathen idolatry ; and
it exasperated her to think a person ' of that
sort ' should have claims to the respect and
admiration of her acquaintance. Beauty, grace,
intelligence and worth she comprehensively
denied poor Leonie, who, on her part, had
never understood, and perhaps not greatly
concerned herself, as to the reasons of her
sister-in-law's dislike. Of Hero, Mrs. Fitzgerald
knew very little, and that little she perverted to
suit her own purposes ; but even Hero she was
prepared to tolerate (rivalry not obtaining in
that direction), and Bianca, if Bianca would
forego all claims on her son's attention, Mrs.
Fitzgerald told herself, she was almost capable
of loving.

Fitz stood just halfway between Bianca and
her mother : eight years younger than the one

44 AUT Caesar Au NIHIL.

and eight years older than the other, and had he
chosen to woo and wed the elder lady, no one
could have wondered at his taste ; whereas, if
he were content to wait for the daughter, his
patience and prevision could not be blamed.

Bianca was already wearying of the
Hudsonss when her waning visit came to a
hurried close. Timid old Mrs. Hudson was
relieved to know that the young lady's face was
turned homewards. With her old-fashioned
notions she thought Bianca a vast deal too
independent ; she disapproved of her foreign
correspondence and flighty ways ; she was
offended with the girl for snubbing her son,
who was to her a Prince Charming, a Lord
Paramount, endowed with every virtue a woman
could admire or desire. The old lady's instincts
guided her, as old ladies' instincts not infrequently
do, to the altogether unreasonable
surprise of their juniors, to general conclusions
of a sufficiently accurate character, and she
determined to keep her eyes open and to act in
accordance with the observations coming within
her orbit of mental vision.

As for young Hopeful, hs only laughed gooch
at his mother's prudent previsions,
and bore no malice to Bianca ; but his moon-strolling

PLAYERS. 45,

calf love was evidently in the fourth quarter,
and he was peering over the hurdles in anticipation
of ' fresh woods and pastures new.'

A fellow ought not to pass life kicking his
heels together amongst a lot of old women,' he
had significantly said, as he and Fitz came
upon Mrs. Hudson's afternoon tea-table, where
the rector, the curate, and an active parish
spinster were imbibing the cheering cup, and
enjoying the mild excitement of plum cake r
and the ' cackle of the bourg ' combined. ' I
am too old for the army, unless I get in through
the militia ; or I might join an exploring party
to South Africa ; or '

To this Fitz had assented, sympathy being
all that was, momentarily, required of him.

As for Bianca, despite her natural grief and
panic-terror, she was secretly glad that the
order of release had sounded ; and something
of excitement and anticipation mixed with
her more creditable feelings, when she found
her next destination to be Portland Place, and
Mrs. Fitzgerald's hospitality her immediate
fate.

Mrs. Owen's death had so far lifted them
all out of the everyday commonplace that
there was a touch of tenderness even in her

46 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

great-aunt's voice as she folded Bianca in lier
arms, and murmured a few words of condolence
and welcome to the sobbing girl. The exaggeration
and helplessness of her undisciplined
grief and terror appealed to Mrs. Fitzgerald's
better feelings ; and when, regardless of her
best cap, her aunt stood awaiting the travellers
in the hall, the wind blowing her streamers
wildly about her head, and the rain darting
arrows on to the oil-cloth and ruining the
rug, Fitz augured well for Bianca's reception.


6 Nothing could have been better,' he
thought, when, two hours later, he found the
ladies in the smaller drawing-room, Bianca
nestled close up against his mother's side,
the warm firelight playing across her pale
face and white hands, and Mrs. Fitzgerald pretending
to follow her usual routine by holding
knitting-pins and wool, but in reality absorbed
in Bianca's answers to the questions her aunt
thought it no harm to put to her.

A momentary impatience with her son for
so stupidly interrupting the conversation, gave
a tinge of acrimony to Mrs. Fitzgerald's recognition
of his entrance, whilst her brow involuntarily
lowered as Bianca, raising her head from

STROLLING PLAYERS. 47

the black silk shoulder whereon, in her subdued
mood, she had confidingly inclined it, exclaimed
with all her wonted animation (by
comparison with her mourning mood it erred
on the side of excess) : ' Fitz ! what a time
you have been ! I thought you were never
coming ! '

'I knew my mother would like to have
you all to herself, to pet and caress for a bit ;
and you know the proverbial " two's company,"
&c. &c.'

'You and I were company all the way upto
town, all through the time,' Bianca
answered, with no thought of flirtation, but
only gratefully remembering the young man's
brotherly kindliness, and mentally appreciating
the fact that, whomsoever the 4 third ' unwelcome
entity the social proverb might point at,
it must not be the faithful Fitz.

8 Perhaps I am de trop, Mrs. Fitzgerald, ina
stilted voice of awful portent, here interjected
; ' but if so, you will have to put up with
me for the present.'

1 Nonsense, mother ! you will frighten
Bianca ; how can you be " de trop " in your
own house ? Why, you know it's your duty
to be here. I cannot chaperone a young

48 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

lady, and should only blunder if I attempted
it.'

Yes, aunt,' Bianca said, caressingly laying
her own soft, white hand on her aunt's grim
claw ; 6 of course you have to take care of me.
Fitz is quite right for once in a way, for he's
always making blunders. Only she added,
after a pause, softening, c one must be just, you
know  he did not make any blunder in the
train, or  or  afterwards.'

Didn't he ? He had nevertheless kissed
her in the train ; held her little tear-swollen
face tenderly to his breast ; smoothed her
pretty, aching head with fond, protective palm.
And under cover of the dusk Fitz smiled.

Perhaps it's the mother after all,' Mrs.
Fitzgerald was saying to herself. ' Very young
men always do prefer older women. He talks
quite paternally of the duty of looking after the
child. To-morrow I shall tell her not to be so
pert, and that it is unbecoming for her to speak
of his blunders.'

Poor old Fitz ! ' thought Bianca. ' I ought
to take his part though he is rather a bore,
and I dare say a born tyrant, but I am sure
he meant to be kind to-day.'

Thus our idlest words strike different notes,

STROLLING PLAYERS. 49

suggesting divergent trains of thought to the
hearers ; each one going his own way, which,
did he but know it, leads him far enough from
the speaker's mark.

But familiarity, if it do not necessarily
'breed contempt,' does breed an easiness,
a sans-gene amongst housemates, where, if self-restraint
and observant consideration of others
be not the abiding rules, the fret and jar that
mars the harmony of so many families soon
endangers a comprehensive peace.

Bianca had little of the conventional respect
for her elders that ladies of Mrs. Fitzgerald's
type exact in their severer moments. Her
mother she habitually treated as an equal, asa
sister ; an elder sister perhaps, whose greater
experience she was obliged to recognise and
willing to admit, but whose will, tamed by the
world, by life, by years, by affectionate aspirations
after Bianca's happiness, must for the
greater part be secondary, and subordinate to
that of her child. To her grandfather she
was, on the whole, an indulgent companion,
jesting with him on terms of easy equality
in her amiable moments, and pouting and
sulking openly with him when the familiar
'G. P.' gave place to ' my grandfather,' or

VOL. II. E

50 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

non grand-pere. 9 Of Mrs. Owen she had
indeed stood in some awe. And a thrill that
was half exultation, half remorse, ran through
the girl's undisciplined heart as she remembered
the calm, clear, searching eyes, for ever
closed, the keen, temperate, far-sighted previsions
of wisdom darkened and silenced forevermore.
Thus, when to the decency of a
becoming grief due sacrifice had been made,
the new order of things developed itself with
amazing rapidity.

No sooner had Bianca felt herself free and
unobserved than she had written, dashing off
letters by the dozen, sending her new address
to her friends in Russia and elsewhere.

The first text for a sermon that Mrs.
Fitzgerald's lips tingled to preach lay in
Bianca's foreign correspondents. And it is
only fair to say that good feeling had multiplied
these missives almost beyond reason, and
to letters concerning ' the Cause ' were added
letters of condolence, letters recommending
Bianca to take care of herself, of ' notre petite
BlanchetteJ of ' sa belle, son adorable mere, 9
of ' ma petite biche Blanche,' as Julie caressingly
called her ; for Julie, in whom, to her
credit be it spoken, family affection was strong,

STROLLING PLAYERS. 5 r

pictured Bianca staining her fair young beauty,
and suffering sorrow to prey on her ardent
young soul until, by sheer fretting over the
irrevocable, she made herself seriously ill.

Bianca rode on high seas of contentment
not to say excitement, and even forgot that she
had to feign a sorrow, as Hamlet says, even
if she felt it not.

In my young days,' Mrs. Fitzgerald began
at the breakfast-table one morning, no longer
able to control herself, 'young ladies were
not allowed to receive letters and answer
them in the way that seems to be the fashion
of the present day. Young women had no
time for scribbling.'

The penny post wasn't invented then, aunt.'

Penny post, indeed ! I don't pretend to
understand such things, but letters with Swiss
and Eussian and German postmark on them
can't have much to do with the penny post.
But, apart from the shameful waste of money
and w r aste of time, the principle of the thing
is indefensible. When I was a young
woman '

1 But that's ages ago ; everything's changed
since then, aunt.'

Don't be impertinent, Miss.'

E 2





52 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

1 Why did you say it was " shameful " of
me to waste money ? It's my own money, and
I might " waste " it much worse, as, indeed, I
see people doing every day.'

4 Do you mean me ? You are an impertinent,
badly brought up, insolent, ungrateful
girl ; you ridicule my age.'

I never did. I said it was a long time
ago ; but I never said that was your fault.
That is only " a matter of fact," as Fitz says.'

8 So Fitz has been talking against his mother
to you ? Very well. I shall know what to
expect next ! '

He never did. Fitz, can't you say you
never did, and say that I never said so ? '

My poor Bianca, it seems to me you have
said too much already. I wish you would
speak more respectfully to my mother.'

'Why did she say I was impertinent? I
had not been impertinent then ; and it's not my
fault if I'm impertinent now. What right has
aunt to say I'm badly brought up ? Isn't that
talking against mamma  and  and against
grandpa  m  m  a P ' beginning in her passion
to sob violently.

I do not think, Bianca, that your mother
would approve of your tone.'

STROLLING PLAYERS. 53

1 There ! ' Mrs. Fitzgerald cried, triumphantly;
'you see! Pampered and spoiled
though you are, even Fitz believes your mother
would not approve of your insolence to me ;
even he, ridiculous as he is, flattering your
vanity until you don't know yourself  even he
can see how you treat me.'

You called me insolent and ungrateful ! '
and Bianca continued to sob, more with anger
than with grief.

6 So I did ; and so you are ; most insolent,
and most ungrateful.'

Mother ! she doesn't mean it, she is only a
child ; show a little indulgence.'

4 Oh, very well ; go against your mother,
Fitz ! ' and tearing out a handkerchief, the size
of a small table-cloth, Mrs. Fitzgerald kept
dabbing it against her dry and fiery little eyes,
whilst her shrill voice came intermittently forth
from behind its voluminous folds in accents of
stifled lament and exasperation.

'You called me insolent and impertinent,'
Bianca went on, returning to the charge.
She, too, was sobbing and shrilling, until Fitz
fairly shuddered at the feminine discord.
I was not impertinent or insolent until you
made me so, by speaking against mamma ; but

54 AVT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

if I am impertinent it's my own fault, not hers ;
and you said I was ungrateful.'

So you are. Most ungrateful, Miss ! '

6 How can I be ungrateful ? I am not
ungrateful.'

You mistook my mother, Bianca. This is
really all very bad.'

That's right, take her part ; go on,' and
sobs burst forth from behind the folds of linen.

You stupid old woman ! ' shouted Bianca,
utterly forgetting herself, and losing all control
over her words as she jumped up. ' Can't you
see he's been taking your part all the time ? '

For a moment both mother and son were
absolutely scared into silence, but Bianca, far
beyond noticing them or their looks, rushed
forward on her fate like one possessed. ' You
call me ungrateful,' she shouted; 'I say I'm
not. Not because I'm good ; but simply because
no one can be ungrateful where there's
nothing to be grateful for.'

1 Hear her ! Listen to her ! ' shrieked the
outraged lady from behind her sheet.

Bianca, you forget yourself ! ' Fitz said, ina
stern quiet voice, inexpressibly shocked at the
sight of the beautiful fury in whom a demon
was dominant that no present power could lay.

STROLLING PLAYERS. 55

You will be sorry for this ; you had better
go to your room, I will speak to you presently.'

4 Yes ! ' the girl cried, ' I will go to my
room, winch I am sorry I ever entered or so
much as saw, and where I will not stay a
second after I have packed my box. What I
forget, or leave behind, you can burn or throw
out of window ; and when you have got rid of
me and purged the place of my presence,
although you will have all the honour and
glory of having hospitably turned me out, I
shall be at this advantage, that I shall have no
special cause for gratitude ! ' And with a
flaming spot on either cheek she confronted
her enemies like a stag at bay ; then, tossing
her head and snuffing the air, she stalked
defiantly out of the room, trembling in every
limb, but pleased to think that she had maintained
her ground.

Poor, misguided, foolish, passionate young
thing ! Had she asked to be born into the
world with this wild spirit, ready, like tinder,
to take fire at a spark ? Was it her fault that
the hot Italian blood in her veins coursed
through them so rapidly that it outstripped all
thought, all reason, all fear of consequences ?
That her words, like torrents of burning lava,

56 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

rushed over every obstacle, leaving ruin and
devastation behind ?

Fitz, shocked, grieved, disillusioned, disenchanted,
felt an immense pity rising up in his
heart for this poor passionate child, whose very
nature pledged her to suffering.

Well,' Mrs. Fitzgerald began, throwing
down the towel of eclipse as Bianca, having
reached the door, flew out of the room and up
the stairs, ' I wish you joy of the bargain I
Did you see how she shouted at me, how
she glared defiance at me, as she left the
room ? '

It was in Fitz's mind that his mother must
be possessed of second sight, thus miraculously
to have pierced the screen of household linen
concealing her countenance ; but this was no
moment for discussing natural phenomena, so
he contented himself with saying : 

No one could excuse such conduct, mother ;
I, least of all. But I trust to your generosity,,
later on, to forgive it.'

Then you trust, let me tell you, to a
broken reed,' Mrs. Fitzgerald replied, with
spirit and dignity. ' She has gone too far this
time.'

Well might Fitz take upon himself, after

STROLLING PLAYERS. 57

repeated scenes of which this was but a sample,
the first instalment as it were of a series, to
call privately on Hero, and ask her ' When
Bianca was to go home ? ' The girl and his
mother lived in a state of high wrangle, which
seemed to have peculiar attractions of its own
to both these combative natures. Bianca's character,
he felt, must deteriorate in such an
atmosphere ; and if a certain grotesque affection
(as of two pugilists who ' don't want to
fight,' but to whom fighting is fate-appointed
destiny), seemed able to subsist, the shock of
mortal combat notwithstanding, side by side
with pugnacity, it could only be at the cost
to both of mutual esteem, regard, and self-respect.


Both Mrs. Fitzgerald and Bianca, by some sort
of grim intuition, understanding or sympathy,
felt that the fascinating fights which lent such
piquancy to their intercourse must be carried
on in Fitz's absence. They were, therefore,
polite to one another under protest in his
presence ; a sort of armed neutrality obtained ;
and it not seldom fell out that, in acting the
amiable, Bianca forgot her sulks and Mrs. Fitzgerald
her offended dignity ; and thus, in spite
of themselves, they grew temporarily into the

5 8 A UT CSAR A UT NIHIL.

best of friends and most congenial of companions
again. Not that the rose-coloured
phase prevailed for long. A look amiss in
Bianca, a harsh word from the aunt, and hey !
presto ! pass ! they were at it, ' hammer and
tongs,' once more.

On the occasion of Bianca's first skirmish
and subsequent retreat, she had flown upstairs,
torn open her drawers, and dashed her belongings
into her little trunk. Its dimensions
required skilful and patient packing, and everything
had to be pulled out, to be rammed in
again, stamped upon, pummelled, trampled
down. Too proud to ring for help, or expose
her discomfiture, Bianca jumped on her box,
and performed a frantic war dance on the lid,
which broke the harps, and put locking out of
the question. A man was fetched to look at
the mischief; he said the trunk must be carried
away for effectual repairs, and thus there was
no choice for Bianca but to remain in her room,
invoking the locksmith with impatient adjurations
and objurgations. The luncheon-bell
rang ; she would not go down. A housemaid
was sent to call her ; she had a headache and
wanted no lunch. A tray was brought up.
What ! eat of this inimical bread and inhospi-

STROLLING PLAYERS. 59

table salt ? Never ! Avaunt ! base hireling
raid, false loaf and faithless butter, rather
starvation ! But when, after hours of sobbing
and sulking, Bianca finally fell asleep on her bed,
beaten by fatigue and want of food, it was
evident the broken lock, insignificant agent
of the adverse gods, controlled her fate,
and she would not leave Portland Place that
day.

Already, with the one idea in her mind that
it was her duty, pending initiation to higher
mysteries and deeper responsibilities, to gain
adherents, or at least contributors to ' the
Cause,' Bianca had determined that certain
social advantages should be turned by her to
the best account.

None but ladies of gentle birth and refined
breeding came to Hero's house ; and of these
the greater part had, again and again, pressed
both mother and daughter to come to them, as
they themselves chose  only to come. But
Hero had as steadily refused. In her own
house she felt herself the equal, and, if they
would have it so, the friend of anybody
deserving her friendship ; but the position w T as
other so soon as she crossed her own threshold.
As a ' professional ' she would not go ; as a

60 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

friend ' the inequalities of fortune made her
friendship a thing to be sought rather than tone
offered, and she felt that Bianca's was not a
spirit to accept or brook rebuff or slight, how
small soever might be the solecism, thoughtlessly
it might be, or carelessly committed. Then
again, with Bianca's ardent nature, she might
yearn for the glitter and gaiety, the tinsel and
frippery of ' society,' so called. Seen near, and
accepted as a matter of course, it might soon
become necessary to her gaiety, good humour,,
and contentment ; whereas the unknown could
be stoically avoided, with a good-natured
laugh at fashionable follies, a tolerant contempt
for the vacant superfluities of idleness and
wealth.

Wealth ! This was the one certain thing
about their visitors. Whatever else they might
be or were not, wealthy they certainly were.
Bianca did not realise how few young girls of
position have money in their purses, or at their
own disposal. A few shillings for pocket-money
is all they know of the great medium ;
everything is bought for them, provided, and
arranged by their mothers, out of whose hands,
for the most part, they pass as ignorant of the-value
of money, of the relative meaning of

STROLLING PLAYERS. 61

s. d., as if the whole machinery of life did
not turn upon a metal pivot, and household
happiness depend greatly upon the administrative
faculty.

In her ignorance Biauca imagined herself
making friends with girls of her own age in a
mild and guarded way, proselytising in their
ranks, interesting them in wonderful things, to
which she would give no name, creating enthusiasms
that should be palpably productive of
more than mere froth and excitement, as Mellin
had once severely said to her regarding her own
attitude. And with these ambitions working
in her mind she let fall something of her
aspirations during one of those friendlier
moods, when an armistice gave the combatants
breathing-time to recruit before recommencing
hostilities.

Mrs. Fitzgerald would have been shocked
had you told her so (as would many good and
excellent persons in like case, were their condition
of mind to be put into plain words), but
to scent out disunion, to guess at disharmony, to
promote friction where smoothness should prevail,
was to her pleasure beyond words. Thus,
when Bianca complained of the dulness of her
life, her aunt advised her to take advantage of

62 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

the situation, and urge her mother to accept the
invitations so freely given. She had learned
that Bianca would suffer no direct attack upon
her mother, and that whilst the thing might be
condemned, the person must be spared. Just
now it suited her to respect this weakness, and
thus Hero's name had been left, so far, pretty
well out of the discussion.

I don't see that girls should be mewed up
in their own families,' said her aunt ; 'and
when you are in second mourning I should, if
I were you, insist upon going out. How are
you ever to get married if you don't go out ? '

I don't know about that,' Bianca answered,
not liking the allusion to her marriage, but
still placable.

6 As to the reasons you give about " home-keeping
hearts being happiest," ' Mrs. Fitzgerald
continued, ' they are simply ridiculous, although
they are your mother's. A woman who, when
you were little more than a baby, and she herself
scarcely more than a raw girl, could go
play-acting ail alone, up and down the world,
with no husband, father, or brother to protect
her, for such a woman to talk of the sanctity
of family life, and the sacredness of home ties,
is too much of a farce ! '

STROLLING PLAYERS. 63

8 Of course,' Bianca assented, innocently,
believing these to be general propositions.

Why, of course ! for what's an old woman
in her dotage, dragged at the chariot-wheels of
a wilful, headstrong person, who believes herself
to be a beauty, and who, of course, would
do as she liked in spite of fifty mothers ? '

As Bianca did not recognise this fancy
portrait of her mother and grandmother, she
remained silent, waiting for her aunt to return
to the text of her own prospective revolt.

And so I should say, if I were you,' Mrs.
Fitzgerald continued, thinking, with malicious
satisfaction, of Hero's ears tingling at the bad,
bitter words coming to her at second hand by
her daughter's mouth.

6 It would be no good saying that ; mamma
would not understand it. Besides, it's stupid,
and does not bear on the point at issue between
us,' Bianca replied sententiously, as being on
her best behaviour.

Won't understand it ? Stupid ? She will
understand it fast enough ; and let me tell you,
Bianca, that if any one is " stupid " it is not, as
you politely insinuate, I : nor, in the sense you
imagine, your mother ; but you, yourself. You
would only expose your ignorance of your own

64 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

affairs, and make a fool of yourself if you were
to say such things as you have said to me
amongst your fine friends who know your
history. And I blame your mother for giving
you the independence of a woman whilst she
tries to tie you to her apron-strings and to
keep you as ignorant as a child. Look here !
Your mother could not agree with the husband
she, and that silly old woman, her mother, had
persisted in taking, and she ran away from him
and lived the life of a strolling player up and
down Europe. Your grandfather was much
too busy with his own affairs to interfere with
the freaks of two silly women, and it was only
when your father died that she retired into
private life  when it ceased to be a scandal.
If you didn't know all this you ought to have
known it ; and as it had to come out, sooner or
later, sooner is better '

6 It's false ! ' cried Bianca, white with fury.

She really believed the whole story to be a
fabrication invented to wound and humiliate
her.

6 How dare you, Miss ! It's true. What
interest have I in befouling my own nest ? '

Nest ? Yours ? ' repeated the girl fiercely,
staring at her aunt.

STROLLING PLAYERS. 65

'Don't you belong to me? Though I
always denied it, and said my niece's name was
Towers, for I wouldn't own a pack of strolling
mountebanks; and do you think it a very
pleasant thing for me to know my son had
joined the party and showed himself in public
with them ? '

I don't believe a word of it,' Bianca cried,
furious but still incredulous. * Buffoons ?
Mountebanks? Why the people we knew
abroad were a hundred times better than you
are ! I shall ask Fitz.'

This was not what Mrs. Fitzgerald wanted.

I would advise you not to,' she said.

8 But I shall ! I shall ask him directly he
comes. Fitz always speaks the truth.'

Ask me what, Bianca ? ' for Fitz, coming
up the stairs, and pausing on the rug, had
heard his cousin's voice raised in altercation,
and had judged it wiser to look in en passant,
lest haply his calmer judgment might soothe the
discordant spirits within. ' Rely on my telling
you anything I can.'

She says that we are shameful people :
vagabonds, strolling-players, vagrants, buffoons,
and that mamma's life was a scandal, and that
she never owned us, but said she only had a

vol. ir. F

66 AUT CMSAR AUT NIHIL.

niece called Towers ; and that we left debt and
disgrace behind us in every capital in Europe ;
and that I ought to be grateful she has recognised
me ; and that you knew it, and were
disgraced by us, and your position nearly
ruined ; and that I was the laughing-stock of
people who knew what we really were ; and
that that was the reason I ought to have been
grateful when she took me up ! ' and tearless,
crimson-checked, declamatory Bianca stood up
before her cousin with flaming eyes.

Mother, is this true ? '

6 She knows it is true ; how could I have
invented it? I did not believe her at first
cried Bianca in reply.

Or is Bianca mistaken ? ' Fitz asked, disregarding
the interruption, though struck by
the cogency of the argument.

It's impossible to talk to a person in that
condition. The girl is simply beside herself

But, mother, say a word to soothe her ; if
it is not true, if she has mistaken you, she will
be sorry presently.'

Soothe me ! She has killed me ; she has
stabbed me to the heart; she has made me
wretched for life ; she has made me miserable
for ever. How can you talk of " soothing " me,

STROLLING PLAYERS. 67

Fitz ? ' and the poor misguided child burst into
a passion of tears. 'Why didn't mamma tell
me herself? Oh, why was I kept in the dark ? '
she wailed.

 Poor Hero ! '

It was Fitz who spoke.

Yes ! you pity everyone but me ! '

I pity you, too, my poor child ; but you
go too far. I cannot do you the wrong of
pitying you for the fancies of an over-excited
imagination. That would be no kindness.'

And all the time you have been despising
me, and looking down upon us,' she sobbed.

I have never despised you, never looked
down upon you. Your mother and your grandmother
I reverence with all my heart. Do not
let their names be dragged into this unholy
strife ! '

6 Always them ! always others ! '

To this cry of jealousy Fitz made no answer.
A month ago it would have thrilled his being
with joy ; but his dreams were dissolving clay
by day with mournful rapidity.

 "My poor child ! " ' Mrs. Fitzgerald repeated
to herself. ' Then it's the mother after all.
"My poor Hero!" or didn't he say "my?"

68 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

He " reverences " her mother and her grandmother.
Of course ! his own mother counts
for nothing ! ' and without an audible word to
either culprit, Mrs. Fitzgerald rose and left
the room.

6 9

CHAPTER XXI.

Rebellion.

Bianca's mind was in a tumult. All was darkness
and confusion. She would never go home.
She would go into a convent. She would runaway.
She would write to Julie. She would
join the propaganda, and, as the humblest slave,
the last menial, the nameless, homeless, necessary
tool, she would work out for herself some
kind of destiny, some kind of salvation. Her
mother she would not forgive. All the gentler
feelings that had bloomed on the newly-made
grave were withered, torn down, rooted up, so
that their place knew them no more. Her
better angel was exorcised to make room for
the evil spirit of her choice and preference
raging within. So they had had their secrets,
though she might have none ! They had their
story and their mystery, though they forbade
all reticence to her. Her mother, who shrank

70 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

from publicity as though it were a crime, a
shame, a sin, had stood nightly upon the public
stage, ruthlessly eyed and boldly criticised of
thousands, and the years of her liberty had
been accomplished. For herself, too, Bianca
thought, in her unreasoning, irrational, rebellious
rage, that for her, too, privacy and the
narrowness of a petty life might be no hardship
after years of freedom, action, fame ! But she
was to be kept in ignorance and leading-strings ;
she was to be tamed, and chained, and driven ;
and not to say, not even to think, that her soul
was her own, the unwilling instrument of a
rebellious obedience.

If it had been hard to stand the cribbing,
gaining, and confinement when it arose, as
she thought, from a want of sympathy, from
timidity, from what  had she known the word
Bianca would have stigmatised as Philistinism
and respectability-worship, how much harder
now when she discovered that her own mother
had passed through the ordeal, had enjoyed
(alas ! poor Hero !) years of independent action,
and now selfishly wished to deny her child, nota
like liberty (for, until now, Bianca had never
dreamed of a public career, of the freedom of
a life outside the family), but a wider social

REBELLION. 71

sphere, an extended field of experience and
action? Now, for the first time, she remembered
that, although not possessed of her
mother's remarkable gifts of voice and ear,
she had a fair musical talent. She recalled all
that she had heard, when her mother, labouring
conscientiously, had put her whole intelligence
into the instruction she was giving her pupils ;
and she now saw that in the comparative indifference
which Hero had shown in the matter
of Bianca's own musical education, there had
been something more and other than the mere
weariness of one who, toiling all day in her
special vocation, was glad when the hour of
rest came to wrap her talent, and see those
around wrap all and any similar gifts, in the
napkin of oblivion, seeking refreshment in other
and different pursuits.

Bianca never doubted, in her first stormy
excitement, but that a little practice was all
that was required to turn her out a finished
singer. Her heart beat as she thought of the
immense sums earned easily by professional
favourites, and her dazzled and delighted
imagination pictured a future wherein, no longer
an obscure tool, a humble nonentity, a dull
little girl, snubbed by her relations, but a

72 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

brilliant success, a social star of the first
magnitude, she would pour the wages of her
toil at Mellin's feet, glad so to be spent if only
she might serve ' the Cause ' with lavish expense
of purse and spirit-when,
later on the day of her memorable
outbreak, Fitz asked her to come to him in the
library, although her excitement had partly
subsided, she was still utterly impracticable. It
was in vain that he even went so far as to say
he was sure his mother had had no idea of the
mischief her idle words were calculated to
work ; in vain that he tried to explain to
Bianca that the whole had been a gross
exaggeration, founded on hearsay, on prejudice,
on jealousy. That her mother had never been
on the stage ; that what she had done had been
done for Bianca's own sake alone, in order that
she might be brought up as a modest, gentle,
beloved girl, in the sweet and safe atmosphere
of a peaceful and plentiful home.

Bianca would not listen. ' I do not care for
the details,' she said. ' Theatre, or concert
room, opera house, or music hall, it's all the
same to me. To be seen of hundreds, hooted
by thousands, or applauded by tens, it does not
really alter all that I care about, all that I dwell

REBELLION. 73

upon, or want to know. Why was it kept a
secret from me ? '

For your own sake, Bianca.'

So that I might hear it from strangers, be
taunted with it by enemies! Not that I
harbour any ill-will against your mother ; you
can tell her so. Perhaps she is right, perhaps
we have disgraced you all, injured your position
and reputation ; I don't know. Oxford dons
and opera singers don't seem to have much in
common '

Bianca, how can you, how dare you, how
have you the heart to speak in such a way ? I
saw your mother but now, and  I  my '

My heart aches for her,' Fitz was going to
say ; but the utter hopelessness of trying to find
in Bianca the little home-bird, the fledgling of
the family nest, the one ewe lamb of the household,
was too apparent for any appeal. When
the angry girl had proclaimed her rebellion,
and thrown over all authority, of what use 
but to expose the cause he advocated to
ignominious defeat  to call her to account for
her secrecy of action, or to demand an explanation
of the strangely familiar brevity of the
letter he even now felt crackling in his breast
pocket ?

74 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL

With his mother Fitz was seriously displeased,
and consequently on a footing of
extreme coldness. He felt persuaded that her
intention had been mischievous, and  the
mischief done  no great good could result from
dwelling on motives, even had he been able to
believe her motives blameless.

Thus, he, who had hoped to go a joyous
gospeller, with glad tidings of Bianca's affectionate
confession and submission, to the
unhappy Hero, had to play the part of a
hypocrite, and deliberately predict peace where
there was neither present peace nor any prospect
of it.

Mistakes enough had already been made, or
so it seemed to him ; further blundering, either
through want of tact or too precipitate attempts
at explanation or reconciliation, would be little
less than crime. If blunders must be, they
should not, he thought, be of his initiative.

Much as he might think of and feel for
Hero, pity was not unnaturally mixed in his
mind with a certain amount of blame.

Looking upon his cousin as endowed with
the promise of all that is most excellent in
woman, he had in secret nursed the fond hope
that the coming years contained a possible

REBELLION. 75

harvest of happiness, all the more attractive
from the unhomelike life offered to him by his
mother's house.

Bianca's extreme youth was no bar to the
romantic worship he was prepared to offer at
her shrine ; and when he pictured her to
himself as his divinity, it was not the half child,
half-romp, and wholly thoughtless girl she had
hitherto been, but as a nymph slender and
stately  as a smiling self-possessed blossom of
womanhood, gracious of mien, virgin of soul,
whose shining zone, clasped above a heart as
pure as the white raiment falling in spotless
folds to her feet  any modern lover might
deem it a glory to bind, like Greek poets and
lovers of old, as a fillet round the brow.

To Fitz, familiar as he was with his mother's
foolish and jealous allusions, it seemed impossible
that anyone could suspect him of ever having
looked on Hero with other eyes than those of
brotherly affection. There had been no confusion
of sentiment or unhealthiness of feeling
in his mind. Such a mother as Hero, with a
mother like Mrs. Owen had been, must needs
possess the daughter of his imagination. To
him Hero was wife, matron, widow, but whilst
he honoured her for her courage and income

AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

planning industry, his theories of life were all at
variance with the possibilities his mother's
jealous imagination had from time to time
conjured up. He wanted not only a virgin
love, he wanted a child-Love, into whose heart
no transient fancy should have so much as-glanced
in passing; he wanted to be father,
brother, lover, husband, to his girl-wife, whose
memories should all be shared by him, and to
whose childish troubles and girlish grief it had
in some sort been his to play the part of a
humble providence.

And this was the result !

As he looked back over the few weeks last
past, he wondered at the rapidity with which
his illusions had been dispelled. Hope, as he
had understood it, when he had seen Bianca a
welcome guest under his mother's roof, had
taken affrighted wings to itself and fled. What
had he to hope for now? No man in his
senses could wish to marry a beautiful fury, or
believe that that may lay happiness.

And Fitz was nothing if not sensible. It
seemed to him that Bianca was no longer the
creature of his dreams, but a turbulent stranger.
A person of disposition so antagonistic to his
own, and to the being of his desire, that

REBELLION. 77

repulsion rather than attraction must, he
believed, be the inevitable result of further
intercourse. He could see, in his disillusionment,
that which not even the most anxious
maternal previsions had inspired Hero to
perceive, namely, that the girl was what she
was rather by accident of birth, rather by
inheritance of idiosyncrasies, rather by endowment
of race, than of any innate perversity of
will, any inherent fault of personal predilection.

How differently we should often judge the
actions of others, in all their inexplicability, in
all their disappointing eccentricity and perverseness,
if fuller information enabled us to touch
the matter with the point of the needle ; if the
story of some inherited tendency, some alien
strain, some legacy of moral warp, could show
us the real root of the irresponsible action
which we in our ignorance only blame or
deplore.

But Fitz saw that the passionate rebellion
of the southern nature, which sent the hot
Italian blood coursing through Bianca's veins
in irrational revolt, was not a thing likely to be
corrected by mere words. Something also of
the Celtic inconsequence of Mr. Owen's volatile
and irrespective character the malevolent fairy

78 A UT CAESAR A UT NIHIL.

godmother had bestowed ; and it was a
question with him how far the girl was to be
blamed for a combination which she certainly
could not help, and had not chosen.

One thing was certain, his idol was shattered.
Bianca could not possibly develop into the
picture of his imagination. Either she would
go forward on her own wilful way, and evolution
would produce a beautiful undisciplined
virago, unfit to be the head of any good man's
household or the mother of his children ; or
she must be morally uprooted, plucked up by
some stronger hand than his, and transplanted
into other soil.

What Bianca was, she had been all along,
despite the treacherous surface of calm.
Shelter, rest, privacy had been abhorrent to
her ; she longed to use her wings in short trial
flights to soar away, to breathe a fresher air, to
shake off the jesses, and to gain strength of
flight and clearness of vision from her independent
bird's-eye view.



Chapter XXII.

LORD George PEVEEIL.

St. Petersburg lay, smiling up in brilliant
beauty to a cloudless sky.

Like the fabled sleeping princess, the city of
the Neva had dreamed away long months in
silence beneath the snow-shroud of the
northern winter. The ice-bound blood,
chilled into a semblance of death, the greatheart
pulsing feebly beneath the merciless
iron grip, told of life failing and faltering.
In the great centres, on the quays and Perspectives,
evidences of vitality might yet be
seen; the arteries, the smaller canals and
populous suburbs, traversed by long streets,
showed the circulation of the human stream,
faint, slow, and languid so long as the snowy
winding-sheet still shrouded, and the icy fetters
still bound the great city, prostrate beneath
the monotonous silence of a grey sky,

80 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

But, at the magic touch of Nature, long
delayed, the sleeping beauty threw off* her
mantle of white fur, opened her closed eyes,
unloosened her locked lips, and drawing a deep
inspiration of new life, new hope, new youth,
new loveliness, offered her smiling face frankly
to the warm kisses of the radiant sun-god.

Spring, a lovely, tender, hopeful season
everywhere, means at St. Petersburg enchantment,
rapture, intoxication. There is no
delaying, ; as The tender ash delays to clothe
herself in green.' There comes a night when
the children of the soil feel a throb, in the air,
a tingling in the blood, a rustle of wings as
they raise their heads from their pillows, and
the early dawn brings the consciousness that
the great change is accomplished, that the
birds are once more with them in thousands,
that the sap driven upwards through the trees
is bursting the buds into rich promise of
beauty, that the air is vocal with a thousand
familiar sounds, fragrant with a thousand
familiar scents, teeming with life in every form,
multiplying the seen and unseen myriads.

During these days of early summer (for
there is nothing in the Eussian spring of the
caprice and deceitfulness that we associate

LORD GEORGE REVERIE 8r

with that season) the population of St. Petersburg
is as though possessed. The Italian loves
the large horizons and the liberal suns of the
sunny south ; the Spaniard revels in the
sensuous animal delight that recalls to the
northerner an image of the contentment of the
lizard basking and winking in the blazing heat
of a sun-baked wall or a cat reposing on a
sunny window-sill ; but the Eussian, whose
calendar shows an annual average of only
ninety fair days as St. Petersburg's portion
of atmospheric delights, the Eussian welcomes
the capering Earn with rapture, and would
willingly bring firstlings of the flock, in
tributary sacrifice to the zodiacal deity.

The city of Perspectives presents, during
those brief days of enchantment, a picture
which seems to realise the ideal ' islands of the
blest.'

On the far shining waters of the noble
Neva the islands lie dotted, like so many fairy
bowers burst into feathering green m one
single night. The distant horizon with ships
sailing, in appearance, between heaven and
earth, blue above and blue beneath, seems
peopled with fairy craft, the sails of which
glisten like the wings of fabled messengers

VOL. II. G

82 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

fraught with refreshment and wonderment
from distant climes. Here and there a brown
sail, a gay flag or a floating pennon reflected
in the shining mirror, like jewels set in the
clear opalescent atmosphere, almost dazzle by
their brilliant hues ; nearer home gay craft filled
with happy parties of pleasure seekers cross
to and fro ; greetings are exchanged in joyous
tones, and the sweet sounds of laughter and of
love come rippling across the waters in delicious
harmony with the heavenly scene. All ranks
are seized with the same ardent longing to
drink deep draughts of the glorious sunshine,
to inhale the aromatic breezes, the earthy
fragrance of the newly-turned ground, and the
delightful coolness of the growing greenery.
Merry groups, family parties, children, betrothed
lovers, grand-parents and friends
seated on the green ground ; the bruised herbs,
the broken branches and twigs carried by the
younger ones, in triumphant testimony to those
less happy, kept by adverse fate at home, of
their extended trips and travels ; the bright
apparel that replaces the monotonous disguise
of furs and toulouse, caftans and pelisses,
tippets, hoods, and veils  the very glitter of
the gilded domes, the colour of the coppery

LORD GEORGE PEVERIL. 83

cupolas  all combine to present an ensemble
such as must be seen to be realised ; and, once
seen, can never be forgotten.

It would scarcely be too much to say that
in these early elysian days of renewed life and
hope, St. Petersburg refuses to go to bed.
Not a moment must be lost. After the long
gloom and bitter cruelty of the grim and
merciless winter every minute is precious, incomparable,
inestimable. Princes and peasants,
peers and people, the droschky-driver and the
porter, the shopkeeper and the soldier, the
police-spy and the merchant, and so on
through all the infinite grades of the mixed
population of a vast cosmopolitan city, the
subjects of the Czar make holiday. In its
heartfelt simplicity and sympathy, in the
thankfulness, the gratitude, the hope and the
courage, as in the combined emotion or action
of any large multitude, there is always something
inspiring.

Adverse as the elements composing this
particular public undoubtedly are, it is yet
united by one great feeling of joyous brotherhood.
There is nothing taught, nothing sought,
nothing made about it. It is the common
G 2

84 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

heart of humanity going up in gratitude to
God for past preservation and present delights.


It is as though each man said to his
neighbour, in the joy of his heart, those old
yet ever new words : ' Lo ! the winter is past,
the rain is over and gone ; the flowers appear
on the earth ; the time of the singing of birds
is come, and the voice of the turtle is heard in
our land ! '

Seated at a writing table, the full sunlight
streaming in upon her shapely head through
the open window, Esther Eodostamos paused,
pen in hand.

That she was busily engaged the sheets
strewed over her writing-table might be
supposed to testify ; and yet it was easy to see
her heart was not in her work, at any rate, not
in it at that moment.

Her tiny hotel on the Wassily-Ostrow, the
envy and admiration of her friends, is built,
after the French fashion, entre cour et jardin.
But the name of hotel seems almost too pretentious
for the modest dimensions, and simple,
if solid, architecture of Esther's dwelling-house.
The forecourt surrounded on three sides, on
the right and left by stables, coach-house, and

LORD GEORGE PEVERIL. 85

offices for the valetaille aufond of the corps du
logis, or principal building, is separated from
the road by tall iron railings on a stone coping
or low wall, the gilt arrow-heads of which
sparkle in the sun like the spears of a detachment
of lancers at halt. All the principal
rooms are at the back of the house, and face
the ' sunny-side,' that great desideratum to the
householder in northern climes, where a month
more summer and a month less winter (to say
nothing of economy in fuel) amply repay the
extra ten or twenty pounds rent which the
wily proprietor infallibly extracts from the
unwilling pocket of his victim, in consideration
of the priceless advantages included in the
sunny aspect of the coveted dwelling.

But Esther has no landlord. Her house is
her own, and she dwells in it without fear of
that notice to quit, or that nightmare of exorbitant
additions to rent, such as are wont to vex
the souls of ordinary mortals.

This ' bijou residence ' had been one of the
many ' gallantries ' offered by her father to
his young and beautiful wife, and had been
secured in turn to his daughter by the loving
prevision which seemed to have guided every
clause of the will constituting her sole heiress

86 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

of Styro Bodostamos's great wealth and vast
estate, real and personal.

In a wicker chair at the back of the
room sits a placid old lady knitting. The
monotonous click of her needles, as she mechanically
pursues her employment, is the only
sound that breaks the silence which reigns
supreme.

I think the spring must be in my blood ! '
Esther exclaims impatiently, as she rises suddenly
from her uncongenial task, scattering
several of the loose manuscript leaves on the
floor by the unwonted impetuosity of her
movement. ' I won't be conquered ; but no
wretch at the treadmill ever found his task
more disheartening and uncongenial than I
find mine to-day ! '

As she speaks, she draws the lace curtain
aside, and looks across the flat green enclosure
(dignified absurdly enough as a ' park ' by her
friends and acquaintances) towards the shining
Neva. She has only to call for a wrap and a
parasol, and in a few minutes' time she may be
seated in the dainty pleasure-boat which is
always moored up ready for use under the
rustic boat-house at the end of her garden.

8 Nature is too strong for you, my dear,*

LORD GEORGE PEVERIL. 87

says her kindly duenna. c You will have to
give in, and join the other pleasure-seekers.
Such innocent pastime can, surely, include no
self-reproach.'

'No, Tantchen, but neglected duties would.
If I had not idled so much time away during
the bad weather, I might be free to amuse
myself now.'

The sound of a carriage driving swiftly
across the courtyard arrested her speech. She
held up her hand in token of attention. The
rooms giving upon the garden front afforded
no view of the entrance, though the sound of
the horse's hoofs on the pebble-paved enclosure
was plainly audible through the open windows.


Hush ! ' said Esther ; ' it is too early for
visitors ; besides, I gave Michael orders that I
was not at home to anyone.'

Some one or another of your friends
trying to tempt you into joining a spring-frolic,
as befits young spirits,' says her companion,
smiling up at the girl with fond approval and
encouragement in every line of her genial
countenance.

Michael's appearance on the threshold, carrying
a card on a waiter of old Eussian repossess

AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

work seemed to confirm this view of the
matter, but before he could approach her
Esther cried impatiently: 'Take it away,
Michael ! What is the good of my giving an
order if you suffer people to send you to me to
have it enforced ? I told you I was busy. I
can see no one.'

1 Would it not be better, dearest, to hear
the message ? ' asks the old lady.

6 No ; yes ; that is, I suppose since Michael
has consented to bring one, my visitors will
already know that I am at home, and that it
will be incurring the charge of churlishness to
refuse myself.'

Please, most gracious mistress, His Excellency
would take no denial ; he said if I would
explain that he has no desire to intrude, but
that your gracious orders were he should call
upon his return, and he only arrived in the city
at eight o'clock this morning.'

c His Excellency ? Let me see. Oh ! '
and Esther threw down the card with an
expression of impatience, irritation, and amusement
combined. ' I thought it was an ambassador,
at least ! When will you learn, my good
Michael, to give people their right titles ? However,
after this long parley I can scarcely

LORD GEORGE PEVERIL. 89

send you down with a refusal. Tell the
gentleman that I am busy, but that I will
make it convenient to see him '  and as the
faithful old servant left the room, ' It is only
Lord George Several,' she said, looking across at
Fraulein Fest, and fro wing slightly as she spoke.

4 Already?'

You may well say so. I thought he was
good for another three months.'

Take care. He will hear you, and,
since you desired him to call on his return
'

Under the impression that he was to be
absent the greater part of the year. Though
even to say so is a perversion of the truth.
When he pressed me to name a time for
receiving him, as I was determined not to do
so again before he left, I only said, as in civility
bound, that I would see him on his return.'

Do not be ungracious to him, my love.'

Before Esther could reply, and whilst the
look of vexation was still darkening her face,
the sound of a manly footfall in the corridor
caused her to raise a warning finger to her
lips, and to shake her head at the kind-hearted
sentimental old lady, whose sympathies seemed
to fall naturally to the share of the sufferers of

90 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL

humanity. And Lord George Several, she
considered, had been a great sufferer.

George John William Several was the
second son of the Marquis of Matlock, and his*
god parents being old-fashioned persons had
conferred those commonplace names upon him
in his baptism, with a calm conviction of the
propriety of so doing unknown to our more
searching times, when calendars are ransacked,
poets worried, and circumstances distorted or
invoked, as the case may be, in order to afflict
the helpless modern infant with an appellation
that shall excite the future scorn, wonder, or
envy of his fellows, according to various circumstances
of time and place, and accidents of
inheritance and development. Enthusiastic
and spasmodic sponsors are probably laying up
a store of jeers and sneers, of sarcasm and
insult in the public school of the future, for
their darling godson, which will scarcely cause
the young man to bless their memories very
fervently ; whilst the gawky Guineveres, the
black Blanches, the sallow Roses, the red-handed
Insults, the limp Victorias, the dowdy
Alexandra, and the dumpy Ends of the
coming by-and-bye, will reap a plenteous
harvest of mortification should the damsels

LORD GEORGE PEVERIL. 91

prove sensitive. George John William, though
he laughed at the threefold prose of his
baptismal register, was in effect rather proud
of it. No one could laugh at him ; nothing
could be expected of him, for Georges, Johns,
and Williams, he argued, abound, and nothing
ideal attaches to any or either of these names ;
you can choose which you like, they were all
equally commonplace, and all warranted to
wash ' equally well. Milton was c John,' and
Shakspeare ' William ' by accident, and as to
1 George ' what could possibly be more prosaic
than the Hanoverian variety with which
Britons are apt to associate it ?

The Marquis of Matlock, George John
William's father, had entered into the bonds of
regular matrimony at a very advanced time of
life, at a time, indeed, when all his contemporaries
were thinking of the closing scene rather
than of the opening one. But the Marquis,
whose ideal was, and still remained, the Fourth
Gorgeous Sovereign of that dynasty, had gone
strictly on the poetic principle of gathering
his rosebuds whilst he might, since old
Time was still a-flying ; and thus it came about
that, a long procession of rosebuds having
withered into the unknown, he only began

92 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

late in life to think of matrimony and sober
household joys such as might adorn the family
tree.

He hated his brother and heir apparent,
and he loved liberty. Thus he pushed liberty
to the extremest licence, and only sacrificed it
at last to something he loved still better, the
pleasure of witnessing his brother's discomfiture.
He married the youngest daughter of
a designing woman of good birth and small
means. The bride was a girl, almost a child
out of the schoolroom, equally ignorant and
innocent. She did as she was told, and was
glad to get away from her hard worldly
mother. The result of this union of decrepit,
or almost decrepit, vice with green immaturity
was that after a year the youthful Lady Matlock
presented her lord with a lean, weak-eyed,
sandy-haired son, hereinafter to be designated
John William George, Earl of Coverdale.
Then, after a space of three years, during
which time Lady Matlock developed into a
fine, robust young woman, a second son was
born, the George John William, whose duties
as attache to the British Legation may be
supposed to have recalled him unexpectedly to
St. Petersburg. His mother was dead, but,

LORD GEORGE PEVERIL. 9 j

strange to relate, his father lingered on, a
terrible nonagenarian whose irascible temper
and antiquated oaths were the terror of all
who came within ten miles radius of his
malignant tongue.

George John William does not belie his
names. He is a robust, good-tempered, tall
young man, square of shoulder, fresh of colour,
resolute of aspect, and bright of eye. Popular
amongst men on account of his frank humour,
unassuming manners and readiness to oblige, he
is one of those of whom women are apt to speak,
if called upon to speak at all, with unflattering
acquiescence as negatively admirable. His
good qualities they could not deny ; but, ina
word, the young man was not 6 interesting.'

For his part he had loved his mother, and
had adored a little girl, his master's daughter
at Harrow, until time having transplanted him
to the University of Oxford that rapturous
passion had died out, starved to death faute de
nourriture, and brought his studies of ' the sex,'
as his old father would have said, to an untimely
conclusion.

Fate, and family interest, and a diplomatic
career  though a less diplomatic being never
aimed at Excellence  had brought him a

94 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

year ago to St. Petersburg ; ' to Esther,' he
would have said, in his frank, prosaic, matter-of-fact
way, if by chance the conversation had
turned in that direction. And now, as he
comes with eagerly outstretched hands into
the bright morning-room, his frank cheerfulness,
the anticipation of pleasure beaming in
his well-opened round blue eyes and lighting
up his pleasant face, the cloud passes from
Esther's brow, and she gives him a friendly
hand, saying laughingly as she does so : ' A la
mode de Grande Bretagne ! But what, in
the name of all that's miraculous, brings you
back so soon ? '

The young man does not see the duenna in
her dark corner, he only sees Esther upon a
background of golden glory, and at her words
his ingenuous countenance falls immediately.

So soon, did you say ? That is not complimentary
; but I suppose I may take it that
you have been having, as the Americans say,
a good time," and so it has passed quickly to
you ; it has not done so to me ; it has seemed
very longs

You may " take it " as you like it ; and I
am never complimentary  nor for the matter
of that are you. What has Fraulein Fest done

LORD GEORGE PEVERIL. 95

that she is not to enjoy the light of your
countenance? You might recognise her by
her knitting, I should think, if by nothing else.'

1 A thousand pardons,' said the young man
blushingly apologising ; ' but, coining in out
of the light into the darkness, you know, one
gets dazzled, and that sort of thing.'

8 Dazzled with the darkness, Lord George ?
Never mind, Tantclien forgives you and so do
I, for on such a glorious day as this one is
utterly demoralised and ready to forgive even
one's worst enemies.'

The infatuated young man gazes on her
with rapture. The words, never very fluent
with him, die away upon his lips. There is an
awkward pause. Esther blushes with vexation
at the undisguised admiration of his gaze. Then,
in order to hide her annoyance, she assumes
a lightness of manner which the simple
fellow mistakes for gaiety and good-humour, and
goes on : 

You are the traveller, the stranger, the
sight seer ; it is you who have had the " good
time " of which you spoke, and the least you
can do is to tell us about it ; so begin at the
beginning.'

1 1 have had no good time,' Lord George

96 A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

says gravely ; and with a shade of embarrassment
in his tone, he adds : ' On the contrary, I
have had a very bad time. I thought you
might have heard, have seen  something 
different in me.' He winds up in confusion.

Different in you ? ' Esther repeats wonderingly,
' what does the young man mean ? '
She does not see that his hat, which he has
deposited under the table, is swathed in what
undertakers would have us believe depicts the
ante-penultimate of woe. For the rest, black
is, all over the Continent, the appropriate garb
for a complimentary visit. The deeper the
hue and the more consistently carried out, the
more complimentary. And Esther, called upon
to look at him, attributes the magpie alternations
in his costume to the fact that the first visit
after absence may be considered one of eminent
ceremony for the official ' Frank.'

'I see no difference in you,' she says
presently, having sufficiently considered his
habiliments. ' It must be my dulness or forgetfulness.
What is it ? '

My stupidity,' the poor fellow stammers.
I ought to have expressed it differently.
Things happen, and one takes it for granted
that other people know. How could you?

LORD GEORGE PEVERIL. 97

What I meant was that, that I  that we 
well we have lost  that is, poor Dovedale is
dead.'

Do you mean that your brother, the Earl
of Dovedale, has died since you have been
away ? '

'Yes.'

'And does that make any difference? I
never understand these things in English
families. Why you should have three names 
your father one, your brother another, and you
a third ; it is so strange  and why you should
not be called Lord Several.'

4 1 can understand that it seems strange.'

'Will this make any difference in that
way? '

'Oh, yes ! But that is the least difference.'

He was thinking that had Esther been a
young English lady of his own rank of life, she
would have known to a nicety all that was
included in the loss of an only elder brother,
the heir to a Marquisate. Whereas Esther had
never troubled herself to inquire if he had any
brothers at all, elder or younger.

Still it is a difference ; what are we to call
you now you are no longer Lord George
Several?' %

VOL. II. II

98 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

You need not call me anything. My bills
will be made out to Lord Dovedale, that's
all.'

Esther blushed a deeper shade of crimson as,
in a somewhat constrained voice, she said : ' Oh,
that is it Milord ? '

Pray  not that ; for you that could
never bec

And why not for me ? There can be no
exception in a thing of this kind, I should say,'
Esther answered stiffly, as though there were
latent offence in the subject.

Of course not. I only meant no lady, no
friend, none of my friends' wives would so
address me.'

Very well ; that I understand. I have no
ambition to graduate in lacquey-language, but
these things are, you will allow, somewhat
difficult for foreigners to understand. Now I
shall know. But what other differences may
we look for ? '

Vexed as she was, and inconsistently pleased
as she would have been to say some cutting
thing, Esther could not but acknowledge that
Lord Dovedale's simplicity of nature would
make any suggestion that he thought, or expected
others to think differently of him as

LORD GEORGE REVERIE. 99

Lord Dovedale, coarse and tactless in the
extreme.

Still, she had her own reasons for being
vexed.

4 Well,' said Lord Dovedale, blushing as he
looked on the ground, ' the worst of it is, after
poor John's death I mean, that my father being
an old, a very old man, thinks it my duty to
take up my position, and '

He is right,' said Esther, promptly.

I dare say. But it will be hard on me. I
shall lose many valued friends ; all the liberty

and irresponsibility of life ; I ' and his face

darkened painfully, ' I shall have to leave
my profession, abandon my career, quit St.
Petersburg.'

His voice faltered; there was an awkward
pause. If he had expected sympathy, sympathy
was not forthcoming. Esther was too
sincere to feign a sorrow she did not feel.

8 Change may always mean for the good,'
she answered. ' It is better to be Lord Dove-dale
in England than Lord George Several in
St. Petersburg. With duties will come ambitions,
and you know what your own poet has
said on that point.'

No, I don't. I don't read poetry. Prose

H 2

hoo AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

is hard enough for me,' Lord Dovedale answered
ruefully, with the simplicity of a school-boy.

The talk limped lamely along for a few
uncomfortable minutes ; then looking across at
Fraulein Fest, and seeing that lady sat as firmly
as her name, and that Esther was inexorable,
the young man searched the carpet for his
cloth swathed cylinder, and rose to take leave.

'You are going out, or ought to be,' he
said. ' St. Petersburg is en fete, a paradise of
beauty on these spring days. I will, if you
will allow me, take an early opportunity of
calling again.'

If I will allow him ? ' Esther repeated to
herself. ' He will do as he chooses, whether I
allow him or not. These vastly humble persons
are always masterful in proportion to their
humility. However, Matlock and Dovedale
fight on my side.'

Seeing the cloud on her young friend's
brow, Fraulein Fest was wisely silent.

We must take a drive after that said
Esther, drawing a deep sigh of relief as the
door closed upon Lord Dovedale's exit, and she
struck a small silver bell.

Chapter XXIII.

A CLERICAL ERROR.

As the ladies drove through the throng of
holiday-makers towards Peterhof, Esther was
silent. The outlines of the low-lying mountains
on the Gulf of Finland showed dark in
softly undulating purple masses on the distant
horizon, and the road was swarming with
pedestrians who, like their typical hero, felt a
pride and satisfaction in getting out of St.
Petersburg, in order to see 4 how the city
looked ' from a distance. This was, in fact, the
raison d'etre of Peterhof, which, since its
founder's time, has grown to limits undreamed
of in his philosophy. In the park, to-day,
hundreds of villas, imperial and otherwise, in
every style of architecture, with every refinement
of luxury and comfort, of splendour and
eccentricity, call forth the ready admiration of
sightseers. English, French, and Italian 

AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

dining, the latest combinations in kaleidoscopic
beds and riband parterres, never cease to delight
the native, whose national pride, flattered
by finding himself between two glories, only
adds to his normal good-nature and contentment.
Again and again salutations from the crowd, a
smile of recognition here, a wave of the hand
there, greetings everywhere, testified to Esther's
popularity with all classes ; but at length their
swift charioteer brought them beyond the distance
possible for pedestrians, when even this
trivial interruption to her thoughts was spared
Esther's impatience.

She and her companion were such good
friends, so thoroughly understood and respected
one another's peculiarities and individuality,
that there was no occasion for ceremony between
them.

8 You will forgive me if I am silent,.
Tantchen ' said Esther, laying her hand lightly
on that of her companion, and addressing her
in the German language, which was as music
in the old lady's ears.

'Be as you like, my love,' answered her
friend, her gentle nature flattered by the endearing
diminutive which Esther had bestowed
upon her as more homelike and affectionate

A CLERICAL ERROR. 103

than the ' Fraulein ' of conventionality. She
was used to it, if custom could make her so,
and yet she never heard it without pleasure,
as, I think, a mother can never hear from
loving lips that most sacred of all names
without a sense of sweetness and mercy. The
very letters lend themselves to softness, and
the syllables enfold and include the word like
an embrace. To the child (it may be a brawny
sunburned man divided by thousands of miles
of sea and land from the home of his youth),
to the child the word ' mother ' brings a vision
of tenderness and protection ; it is a talisman of
love and safety (for a mother may save her son
unconsciously from a thousand perils of which,
in her pure and sheltered womanhood, she does
not dream). To the mother it appeals by all
that is holiest and most sacred in nature ; and
the clause in our great intercession reads always
(to me) 'for all motherless children.' The
father, who is supposed to supply their material
wants, is a loss indeed ; but who may define
the unspeakable loneliness of a ' motherless
bairn ' ? a creature twice orphaned ; whose
body, bone of her bone and flesh of her flesh,
is the mother's special solicitude ; whose soul,
4 poor little, timid, fluttering thing,' deprived of

104 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

her care, is tossed hither and thither on trembling
wing, and dreads and hopes it knows not
what.

Esther, who was motherless (and who
cherished her mother's memory with an almost
passionate worship), whose father had died too
lately for her to have ceased either to expect
or to miss him in her daily routine, had a
special longing for some semblance of family
life, a special cultus for the domestic virtues,
an ardent appreciation of the modest graces,
and tenderness of ' home.' If ever she allowed
her attention to wander from practical
matters, if ever she suffered imagination to
stray in the direction of a possible future, it
was less castle-building than home-life, home
interests, home-love, home-influence, that
formed the architecture of her dreams ; not
the successes of society, not the pursuit of
pleasures (so-called), neither the (to her)
charmless charm of the world, with the pomps
and vanities attendant thereon, that she coveted.
When she had learned to love Fraulein Fest as
much as she esteemed her, and not before, she
proposed and adopted the playful German
diminutive which was so pleasing in the old
lady's ears.

A CLERICAL ERROR. 105

As Esther drew her mantle about her and
settled herself comfortably in the corner of the
carriage, we may partly follow her thoughts,
and partly say a few words about this solitary
girl, whose position had caused so much speculation
in St. Petersburg circles.

As has already been said, her father, Styro
Eodostamos, was a Greek banker, a man claiming
descent from an ancient and honourable
house, of which the younger scions had first
sought success in mercantile ventures and
financial speculations during the latter half of
the last century. He had married to please
himself (for he had no kith, and kin only so
remote as not to influence his resolve) a beautiful
lady of Hebrew descent, who, in due
course, had made him the proud and happy
father of a little daughter, the Esther whom we
know.

Esther's mother had lost her parents at an
early age, and she had then passed into the
care of an uncle and aunt residing in Paris.
She had little or no fortune of her own, but by
that law of brotherhood, and that unwritten
rule of liberality which prevails amongst the
Hebrew race for those of their own kin, she
was made welcome in the house of Costa.

106 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Here she shared her cousin's education and
amusements, was dressed by her aunt with taste
and costliness, and might have been fairly happy
but for two circumstances  her loneliness,
and the absence of anything like serious
thought or religious observances on the part of
those with whom her lot was cast.

Originally descended from a distinguished
family of the Jewish race settled in Spain, the
head of which had been ennobled and had
enjoyed signal honours at the Court of Madrid,
the Costs of later times had ceased to be
exclusively Spanish ; and court emoluments,
decorations, titles, and showy honours having
somewhat palled, the younger generations had
sought independence and gained fresh vitality
abroad, establishing themselves as bankers and
merchants in France, Germany, and England,
and were known everywhere as people of
brilliant talents and solid wealth. Their name
was dear to them, less on account of historical
decoration and traditional power, than for its
unstained probity, its soundness on 'Change,
and the universal respect in which it was held
wheresoever men of business mostly congregated
together, all over the world. But  as
was not to be wondered at  they had, in some

A CLERICAL ERROR. 107

of their branches at least, fallen away from the
old faith ; and although they had not become
professedly apostate or registered themselves as
renegades, by pretended conversion to Christianity,
they had in so far grown indifferent to
the faith of their forefathers as to be regarded
with pious horror by the orthodox amongst
the Israelites.

This separation sat lightly enough upon
them. They could not take the repudiation
very deeply to heart when Society opened its
doors to them, and their dinners and dances
were thronged with the wealthy and the idle of
all nations.

The men of the family found amongst men
that these matters were of no consequence.
Outwardly Catholic, conforming ' par respect
humain ' as the Church says, to the rules that
govern the so-called Christian communities
in which they dwelt, the French, Italians,
Germans, and Spaniards with whom the Costs
came in contact were, man for man, almost
without exception, ' free-thinkers,' which, in
modern parlance, stands, as often as not, for a
freedom that never exercises the right divine
of thought.

The ladies of the Costa family were not

io AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

imaginative. They were healthy, young, and
rich. They bestowed such powers of ideality
as they possessed on their dress, their amusements,
their flirtations, their enemies, their
successes, and their annoyances. Grief had
never touched them, nor sorrow beckoned them,
though but for a moment, aside. In a crowd
of flatterers of all ranks and all complexions, it
was scarcely likely that even the chilly glances
of negative criticism, which, now and again,
fell upon them from the more serious of their
own people, should disturb their equanimity.
Had they lived in a small community it would,
and must have been, different. As it was,
certain trains of thought, certain grave problems,
pressing heavily upon the men of to-day,
as such questions have ever pressed upon the
serious in times of transition, as in the unknown
future they will continue to press on responsible
leaders of opinion when affairs indicate the eve
of any great epoch in the history of humanity,
such thoughts were altogether outside their
everyday trivial, narrow, and materialistic
range.

But with Esther's mother it had been different.
The remembrance of old words and
old observances, of old forms of faith and

A CLERICAL ERROR. 109

scrupulous compliance, with a thousand punctilious
claims and obsolete exactions, still hung
about and disquieted her soul, leaving the girl
grave and thoughtful in the intervals of gaiety,
and often more deeply perturbed in mind than
anyone whose conscience was either easy or
unawakened would have imagined.

But, when Styro Eodostamos, in Paris on
business, was brought home by Michael
d'Acosta, and introduced to his wife and
daughters, Noemi's hour, although she did not
know it, had struck. The offer was soon made ;
with the impulsive Greek it was love at first
sight. The uncle and aunt accepted his proposal
unconditionally, delightedly ; and to show his
approval, Michael d'Acosta presented his beautiful
niece on her wedding-day with a string of
pearls, each individual one of which was worth
a king's ransom (as kings are taxed in the
modern monarch market). Her aunt's taste in
the selection of the trousseau was extolled by
every matron in Paris who had pretensions to
fashion, birth, riches or beauty ; and when the
girl asked, timidly blushing, beneath her breath,
1 Where are we to be married, uncle ?  in what
church, I mean ? ' her uncle answered with a
Homeric laugh, his large hand descending in

no AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

boisterous amity on her shrinking shoulder :
Why, where should you be married, my girl,
but in the church to which your husband
belongs ? Styro Eodostamos is a good Greek,
and the Greek Church is as good as any other,
I take it, for the purpose in question. You take
him for better for worse ; all he has and is
henceforth will be yours ; and if you would bea
happy wife take my advice and conform in
all things to his way of thinking. Don't split
straws ; all religions are good if you will only
see it ; what is not good is bigotry and bitterness,
and the strife that grows of dogma and
opinion. Be faithful and loving, honest and
true ; and I don't suppose that what you call
yourself will make much difference. Eodosta-
mos is a generous fellow. He wants nothing
with you, and settles a handsome sum upon
you. Had it not been so I would myself have
doubled your little store ; but it is better you
should go to him, owing him everything ; it
pledges you to good conduct  not that I doubt
you for that matter ; so, no crying, or we shall
have an ugly bride, and I am proud of my
pretty niece.'

So the girl had gone to her husband. His
nat not been a severe rule. Born and bapt

CLERICAL ERROR. m

tired into the Greek Church, Bodostarnos conformed
because convenience required it ; but he
had drunk deep of the liberal ideas of his age,
and was nothing of a bigot.

His wife was his constant companion, his
trusted friend. Where he went she went ; and
he was a great traveller, making hurried
journeys, swift and secret, according to how
loans had to be negotiated, or the money markets
of the world manipulated. He wondered
how he had ever lived without the gentle,
affectionate creature from whom he was no
longer, so he said, separable even for a single
day. Amiable, gentle, and fairly cheerful,
always ready to obey his behests, to greet him
with a smile, to enjoy any passing amusement
as she was, there was yet a subtle something
about her for which melancholy would be too
strong a term, and apathy an unjust one.

Sometimes, when quite alone with Esther,
Noemi would sing with extraordinary power
and pathos some of those wonderful chants
which thessalonians required of their captives
in their heaviness, acknowledging their pathetic
songs to be an extraordinary musical treat.
Much older than the Psalms of David, these
heart-stirring melodies are traditionally said to

ii AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

have come from Mount Sinai, and, transmitted
from mouth to mouth, have been fitted with
words according to the requirements of time
and place by succeeding generations.

If not her personal isolation (a thought
which she herself would eagerly have repudiated
as implying want of loyalty to her
husband), perhaps the national misfortunes of
her race, still in these remote generations
wanderers on the face of the earth, motionless
and homeless, an orphaned and an outcast
people, may have tinged her voice with melancholy
as she sang, almost secretly, in a strange
land these ancient songs of Zion. The harp, it
was true, they had hanged upon the trees that
were therein before following their conquerors
into captivity ; but the words they had brought
with them, hidden deep in the recesses of their
hearts, to be murmured in dreams, breathed
softly at dead of night, when no hostile ear
could hear, and when the sleepless captives
gazed hopelessly at the inscrutable heavens
reflected in those Babylonian waters.

The echo of these songs of her mother's
youthful days lived and lingered in Esther's
memory long after the voice that had given
them life had ceased and was silent. At the

A CLERICAL ERROR. 113

time, they seemed to float far above the child's
head, and to lose themselves in some mysterious
distance, into which, after her own childish
fashion, Esther fancied her mother's great
wistful eyes could penetrate.

Yet one other thing of childish years and
fond mother-love had remained with her. Her
mother's nightly benediction, learned from her
mother, and used, not as a matter of dogma or
faith, not as pertaining to the Jewish religion,
but as a fond familiar formula ; the only one,
in fact, that came involuntarily to her lips as
she bent over her darling's bed and whispered
a blessing on her sleep, c In the name of Jehovah
the God of Israel, with Michael on the right
and Gabriel on the left, before thee Uriel,
behind thee Raphael, and at thy head the
Holy Ghost ' (Schechinath-El).

Otherwise the little creature learned but
the vaguest lessons of theology from either
father or mother ; and brought, later on, a
mind absolutely unprejudiced to bear upon
the questions that have occupied and exercised
humanity for countless ages.

Inheriting from both father and mother
extraordinary facility for languages (for Styro
had all the versatility of the modern Greek, and

vol. II. 1

ii 4 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Noemi that aptitude for languages which seems
a birthright of the Jewish race), Esther had yet
further advantages in the Eussian system of
education, which provides the children of
wealthy parents with a German tutor, a
French bonne and an English governess, as
soon as the little creatures begin to form
syllables in their native tongue. Languages
learned thus may not be very correctly learned ;
much will depend on individual idiosyncrasies
later on ; but they are learned without difficulty,
without grammars and tears, without rebellion
and punishment ; and they give a wonderful
aplomb and sense of independence and power to
those who have the happy 6 gift of tongues
rendering them easily approachable, courteous,
and apparently amiable ; capable of complying
with that politic Pauline precept which lays it
down, as a rule, that we should be ' all things
to all men.'

As with his wife, so with his daughter.

Styro Eodostamos, robbed of his companion,
struck down to the very depths of despair by
the loss of his one love, had yet too strong, too
robust, too healthy a nature to succumb entirely
to grief. He took, in the place of her who was
gone, Sorrow  ' No casual mistress, but a wife *

A CLERICAL ERROR. 115

to his heart, and shared it between Regret
and his little daughter. Time the Healer found
Noemi not less regretted, but mourned after
another and gentler fashion. Esther sat by
her fathers side, as his fair young wife had
sat ; but in the girl there was another and less
obedient spirit ; there was a more restless and
less acquiescent soul ; and though she said little
she thought much, listening carefully, weighing
such words as struck her intelligence, questioning
her own mind, and seeking enlightenment
eagerly on all sides.

Styro Kodostamos was not a savant ; he
was a cosmopolite ; the essentially modern
product of contemporary circumstance, and
as such admirably suited to the world in which
he lived, and to the work he had to do in it.
He was intelligent, versatile, and many-sided
in his way, and without ostentation an enthusiastic
patron of the arts ; his door was open
to all men of more than average .merit, no
matter what their faith or nation ; his table
daily honoured by the presence of many a
distinguished foreign guest ; and, as time
passed, and the claims of business relaxed
their hold upon him, his house became popular
as the rendezvous of what was best amongst
1 2

n6 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

the unclasped and impassable intelligences
which the life and friction of a great city
brings to the surface of society. Thus, before
Esther was old enough to take any ostensible
part in it, a circle was already forming around
her ; and for two hours every evening, in a
simple stuff or cotton frock, the child, by her
father's wish, sat apart at a little table in the
great gilded salon, by the side of her staid
English governess, and listened wonderingly,
with her head bent over her work ; for her
father, who desired that she should be in all
respects brought up practically, insisted on
her proficiency in woman's handicraft. 'No
expensive and useless " fancy-work, but
plain sewing and stitching, darning, and
mending. Who knows ? she may marry a
great traveller, some Livingstone or Baker,
some Humboldt or Schweinfurth of the future,'
he said in his plain practical way. ' Will they
have a retinue of lady's-maids to sew on their
buttons in the desert ? Besides, it is proverbial
that such minxes want far more waiting on
than their mistresses, and begin to call for
brandy and smelling-salts before the ship has
got fairly out of port.'

He thought there was something endearing,

A CLERICAL ERROR. 117

soothing, and domestic in the presence of a
gentle woman busy with her needle ; silent if
her husband were at work ; sympathetic if he
looked up in ' a pause of the day's occupation
and asked her opinion or advice. In his wife's
lifetime he preferred to come to her for any
trifling repairs that his costume might require,
rather than leave it to the care of a servant ;
and looking fondly at her deft and pretty
fingers he was pleased to see the rings he had
given her sparkling upon them, flattered that
she always used a thimble, one of his first gifts
during the early days of courtship. Then, the
word of thanks, the little praiseful compliment,
and the kiss given and received, all these had
had an abiding charm and sweetness for him
and had made him insist on little Esther's persevering
in the homely accomplishments of
sewing on buttons and knitting socks, let her
future be what it might.

As the girl and her governess thus sat,
sedately employed, many amongst the older
men would come up and pat the child approvingly
on the head, and say a word or two of
compliment to Miss Jackson, praising the homelike
industry and sensible occupation of her
pupil. But Esther liked it best when they did

n8 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

not notice her ; when, deep in the discussion of
art or politics, of modern ethics, the amelioration
of the human race, the future of conflicting
interests, she saw her father ready and able to
hold his own, speaking with an animation and
power and a practical common sense that
insured him the respectful attention of his
assembled guests. These arguments, of which
she often only heard the commencement, were
her delight and pride, and she would often
surprise her father by asking the next morning
how the matter had ended, and whether 
had prevailed or been worsted in the
fray.

At eighteen, her education requiring now
less constant study, Eodostamos had introduced
his daughter to 'Society.' They spent one
winter season at St. Petersburg. The following
winter was passed in Eome ; the next in
London ; the third in America, where they
visited the principal cities of the United States.
The intervening months they travelled in Germany,
France, and Switzerland. In Paris they
had repeatedly found themselves, and Esther
had there made the acquaintance of countless
cousins amongst Michael cl'Acosta's children
and grandchildren. Everywhere she saw every

CLERICAL ERROR. 119

thing, always accompanied by her father, who
seemed to taste fresh youth in acting as cicerone
to his daughter. There was nothing forced,
nothing affected, nothing of the vapid attitudinising
and jargon of a certain school of modern
would-be connoisseurship in Esther's spontaneous
enthusiasms.

In the presence of strangers reticence
instinctively teaches us to hide all more intimate
and sacred feelings, but even with her
father, dearly as she loved him, there were
long intervals of silence, when Esther would
commune with her own heart  respecting all
she saw, and thought, heard and imagined  and
be still. Some things there were that she
could not speak of, and these she pondered
silently, feeling that her father was not the
person who could help her out of such special
difficulties, which must be laid aside now, to
be met later on. His frank, harmless enjoyment
of all present pleasures, his wholesome,
heartfelt appreciation of all the blessings of
life, seemed effectually to remove him from
the debateable ground of doubt and inquiry,
speculation and misgiving.

Then came his sudden and unexpected
death, and a period, to Esther, of stunned and

120 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

stupefied grief, of numb and dumb endurance,
followed by a season of wild rebellion, such as
threatened for a time to permanently poison
and warp the sweetness and uprightness of her
gentle nature.

No special religious teaching had prepared
her for this blow. It may be that no teaching
of any sort could have prepared her for it,
though it might have imposed submission and
silence, and the formulas of humility and
acceptance upon her. But in her desolation
and misery she rose rebellious, and hardened
her heart, and set her face in bitterness to
endure loss and loneliness as best she might,
refusing impatiently all comfort.

Such a state could not last. She was
young, tender, and a woman. Something
she must have to love ; and not finding the
necessary food for heart and mind within her
own four walls, all the tenderness and enthusiasm
of her nature, all its passionate yearning-for
action and self-sacrifice, flowed into the
broad channels of public charity, and found an
outlet in devotion to the cause of suffering
humanity in the world at large. Her private
affections took the form of an intense and
zealous worship of the dead. Suddenly it

A CLERICAL ERROR. 121

seemed to her that the oppressed race of
which her mother came, in its centuries of
sublime martyrdom, of sorrowful exile, and
silent endurance called for some special recognition,
some personal atonement at her hands.
It became a point of honour and loyalty with
her to identify herself, by word at least, with
such of her long-suffering brethren as would
endure the identification, and by deed silently,
using her agents as she could find them, withall
who were in sorrow, need, sickness, or any
other infirmity, ministering to their necessities
through others, who were content not to
require any formal profession of faith or declaration
of dogma on her part, the afterward
of those wonderful melodies, the songs of
Zion, which her own mother, a stranger in
strange lands, had sung over her cradle, became,
now that even the last faint echo of
them had died away in the far distance, inexpressibly
dear and sacred to her. She remembered
how those Babylonian exiles, when
called upon to sing for the idle gratification
of their captors, had replied by a refusal. ' As
for our harps,' they said, ' we hung them upon
the trees that are therein ; ' and as to songs, the
Lord's song they would not be persuaded to

122 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

sing in a strange land ; for how could they
forget the country of their birth, how forget
that Jerusalem to which the tribes went up,
even the tribes of Israel, the type of the everlasting
city not made with hands, whither the
chosen of God should also eventually journey?
In their exile they yet boldly declared to their
masters that they ' preferred Jerusalem in their
mirth,' that Jerusalem of which they could only
sing under protest in a strange land ; and that
they would rather their tongues should cleave
in silence to the roof of their mouth, and their
right hand, skilled in all manner of arts and
industries, lose its cunning, than that they
should forget the undying claims of the sacred
city.

Esther had travelled too much, was too
gently nurtured, too sensitive to forms and
harmonies, to make herself ridiculous by any
extravagance of demeanour or loud profession
of faith. To orthodox and pious Jews
she knew that she would be as a reproach
and a scandal inodorous in their very nostrils.
The ties that had bound her orphaned mother
to that race had been too loose to prevail
over the later and stricter bond of marriage
with a professing orthodox Greek ; and Michael

A CLERICAL ERROR. 123

d'Acosta and his family, though proud of their
descent, were absolutely indifferent on all
matters of doctrine. They had made no
pretence of being ' converted ' ; the painful and
pedantic scruples of the Hebrew law, the
puerilities and intricacies of Israelitish ritual,
the vexatious and superstitious exactions of the
Jewish faith, they would have frankly ridiculed,
had it come in their way to do so, with as little
hesitation as would the ' pagans ' of any other
nation ; and thus Esther felt it behoved her to
make her advances very cautiously, lest at the
outset she should prove a stumbling-block or a
cause of offence to brethren of the stricter
sort.

The years she had been absent, travelling
with her father, had wiped out all remembrance
of her, in so far as her one short season at St.
Petersburg was concerned. At that time Julie
de Kerezoff had been with her husband in Asia
Minor, and the beautiful Countess Perowsky
was still in seclusion at Katchaloff. Thus it
was that the gossip which nicknamed Esther
the ' veiled prophetess,' the ' fair Grecian,' the
'beautiful unknown,' and half a dozen other
such vapid titles, had scarcely compared notes
enough to discover that the lady under 

AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

cession was identical with a lovely girl who
had appeared in their midst five seasons ago, at
Court balls ; had been asked to all the best
houses, and had disappeared not to return
again. Of those who had known her slightly,
some were absent, some were dead, a few
vaguely remembered, and a few claimed acquaintance
with her. But she was stil] too
much of a novelty for ' Society ' to have ceased
talking of her, her antecedents, whims, wealth,
and way of living, or to have ceased discussing
possibilities and probabilities in connection with
her name.

Lord George Several saw her and fell in
love with her. ' Madly,' his friends said,
c wisely,' as he averred. He knew nothing of
the fabulous fortune ascribed to her by report.
He impatiently refused to hear anything about
or to believe in it. For his own sake he would
have preferred that she should have been poor ;
not abjectly, hungrily, miserably poor, but
decently and comfortably indigent, say on a
few poor hundreds a year. But he indignantly
refused to have the tale of her wealth forced
upon him. He knew that if she were a female
Croesus he would still strain every nerve to win
her ; but he would prefer not having to battle

A CLERICAL ERROR. 125

with his pride, or to exasperate his love by
conflict with that demon. No pride, he determined,
should rob him of possible bliss ; of
happiness, the proudest and most perfect a man
could know : and thus he turned a deaf ear to
all those gilded reports which as inevitably
surround an heiress as the aureole surrounds
the pictured saint. He knew he was not worthy
of her, but no man, so he told himself, was ;
and no maudlin refinements of scruple should
thrust morbid humility into the foreground, to
the detriment of an honest, manly, and altogether
upright love.

Esther, accustomed by her prerogative of
beauty and wealth to no inconsiderable amount
of homage, was utterly astounded when Lord
George declared his passion. She was even
more than astonished ; she was vexed, not to
say angry. She refused him with very little of
that amenity which is supposed to gild the
bitter pill of rejection. But he, on his side,
refused to accept the refusal.

This exasperated Esther and roused her
pride.

1 You do not know me,' she said.

I know my own mind.'

And I do not know you.'

126 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

You can learn to know me. 1

But I desire no such knowledge, Lord
Several.'

6 You may know me well enough, at any
rate, to call me by my right name ; ' and then, ina
pleasant, cheerful, brotherly sort of way, he
strove to initiate her into the bewildering intricacies
of that publication which has been
called by the profane, 'The Book of Life
Wicked people say the peerage is the Englishman's
Bible, you know,' said Lord George, in
explanation.

1 1 am afraid I am not great at the Bible,
to my shame be it spoken,' Esther replied.

'Well, that's a point in common between
us. I always got bad marks for my Bible
lessons at school, but I don't know that I was
ashamed of it; all the other fellows were as
bad, or nearly so.'

'It might be no shame to you ; it is
different with me.'

'Because girls are different, you mean;
pious, conscientious, dutiful, and all that sort of
thing?'

Not at all. Because I am a Jewess. That
was what I meant. I am not pious, nor conscientious,
nor dutiful.'

A CLERICAL ERROR. 127

If she intended him to be surprised she
was gratified. The colour rose to his face.

6 You are laughing at me,' he said ; 'joking
at my expense.'

I don't know why you should think so. I
see no joke in it,' she replied, 'nothing in
the least funny or amusing. It may be want of
humour on my part ; but to me there is not
the faintest gleam of the comic in such a fact.'

Something of offence in her tone made him
feel that she was speaking the truth, and that
he had blundered.

I thought you were mystifying me,' he
said simply, after a few minutes. ' I see now
that you were not.'

8 Not at all. I told you you did not know
me ; and you see how little you know me, or
even of me.'

'I could not know what I had not been
told

No, certainly ; unless you had guessed it.'

Such a thought never crossed my mind.'

6 You need not disclaim ; it has crossed it
now. And that being so, we may as well have
done with it. I have talked quite enough
about myself.'

You could never do that to me,' said the

128 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

lover, gallantly. ' But, may I ask you something?'


6 If it is anything your conscience commends
to your tongue.'

c Is it a secret ? '

Is what a secret ? '

Why  that  you are  your birth, you
know '

6 That I am a Jewess? Certainly not.'

Because I never heard it.'

8 Probably because a girl bears her father's
name, and a wife's identity is merged in her
husband's; also because no one has troubled
him or herself to examine my pedigree, and I
have not thought it my duty to go about offering
gratuitous information on a matter of no
importance. Now you proposed to graft me
on to your family tree, and as, root and branch,
that institution is with you regarded as public
property, and as something sacred, I thought it
right to warn you of the fact.'

It can make no difference.'

6 It makes a difference to me,' Esther replied,
proudly ; and shortly after this the young man
withdrew.

He soon presented himself again in Esther's
drawing-room, but she contrived never to be

A CLERICAL ERROR. 129

alone with him ; and Fraulein Fest  who saw
and secretly favoured his suit, had grown
gradually to esteem and like this fresh, well-favoured,
young English nobleman  had strict
orders to mount guard as duenna. She
thought it would be a good thing that Esther
should marry. She had all the middle-class
German's cultus for rank ; and rank, combined
with money on his part, and crowned by
wealth on Esther's, presented, she thought, such
an ideal combination of the palpable and
impalpable, of the real and ideal, as her young
lady was not likely to meet with twice in a
lifetime. Though she did not dare to hint,
much less to say so, she was afraid of Esther's
enthusiasms, vagaries, projects. A good husband,
the sobering cares of a growing family
these would be at once a safeguard and
legitimate groove into which Esther's ardent
feelings might run or tumble without danger of
discomfiture.

Think well what you are about before you
refuse him a second time, my dear,' she said, byway
of warning.

6 I don't need to think, well or ill, Tantchen ;
my mind's made up. There will be no second
time.'

VOL. II. K

i 3 o AUT C&SAR AUT NIHIL.

Your mind may alter. You may alter it.
That is the lady's prerogative. And I am much
mistaken if there be not a " second time." :

In this assertion Esther was, perhaps, not
quite sincere, and therefore she refrained from
further protestation. She knew there must
inevitably be a ' second time,' possibly even a
third ; but the third she declared to herself, if it
must come to that, should positively be the
last.

She could not refuse Lord George admittance
to her house ; he had done nothing
worthy of banishment. She was obliged to
meet him in Society, unless she wished him to
feel that his presence was sufficiently important
to call on her part for efFacement ; but she
avoided, by all means in her power, being
alone, even to the extent of drinking a cup of
tea or eating an ice in a crowd with him.

When people joked him about ' looking
after the heiress,' he simply denied it, saying : ' I
look after no heiress ; ' but when they said he
was in love with Esther Eodostamos, he never
attempted to controvert the assertion, though
he condemned the taste that could couple a
lady's name with any man's, however eligible ;
and that he was eligible  or would be  from

A CLERICAL ERROR. 131

the Belgravian motherly stand-point, even Lord
George's limited experience had taught him.

After ' the second time,' Esther got out of
all patience.

8 It is not fair, my lord,' she said, angrily ;
c you ought to take " No " for an answer.'

It is an answer I do not like ; but why do
you call me " my lord ? " I know that you are
angry with me, unjustly angry, as I think ; but
you need not use such extreme severity.'

When you leave off persecuting me, I will
leave off calling you " my lord." '

I do not think you should say " persecute "
you, because I am faithful. I love you too
much to be proud, and, though you scorn me,
you will come by degrees not to scorn my
fidelity.'

'No woman likes to think her words are as
empty wind. What is the good of my speaking
if you disregard what I say ? '

The third time Lord George had, rather
against his own convictions, spoken on the eve
of his journey to England. 'He either fears
his fate too much Or his deserts too small, Who
fails to put it to the touch, To win or lose it
all.' ' There's luck in odd numbers,' he said,
trying to encourage himself with quotations.

k2

1 32 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

The result we know.

And now he had returned, several months
before Esther had expected him, and (so she
told herself) the worry would begin all over
again. True, he was under orders to return
with what expedition he might to the halls of
his ancestors, but Esther had little faith in the
magnetic power of that massive masonry as
opposed to her own less substantial attraction.

Perseverance on the part of a lover had,
she knew, been fatal to many a girl's liberty.
What can a woman do when a man won't take
No ' for his answer ? c Gutta caveat lapide
non vi sed scene cadence ; ' and though she
should in very truth harden her heart until it
became as the nether mill-stone, ' time fights on
the side of the drop,' especially a drop of ' the
first water,' such as a scion of the 
order.

If she is engaged to him, why doesn't she
say so ; and if she isn't, why keep him dangling
after her ? ' is a question often asked and seldom
answered in similar cases ; and Esther knew it
had been asked about her. She had even been
gently reproached on the subject by a certain
august personage.

Though the Radical prints would fain have

A CLERICAL ERROR. 133

us believe that a lord never works, and that the
fiction of despatches, precis, identic notes, and
so on are mere sand thrown in the eyes of the
bovine British taxpayer, yet, as Lord George
had certain duties connected with the Embassy
to perform, he punctually performed them.
The first time he wrote ' Esther,' for some other
word beginning with an ' E,' it probably passed
unnoticed ; but, when a gossiping letter
marked ' private,' and written to a royal personage
at home, came back to Lord Adamant,
Her Majesty's representative at the Court of
St. Petersburg, with huge marginal notes of
interrogation scored all over it, His Excellency
thought it high time to remonstrate.

What does this blanked blank nonsense
mean, sir ? ' he roared at Lord George, who had
been summoned to a private audience.

Lord Adamant and the Marquis of Matlock
were contemporaries in so far that the heir of
the Adamant was sowing his wild oats whilst
the representative of the Mattocks was gathering
in a vast and unprofitable harvest of youthful
indiscretions. A more or less highly-coloured
oath or two in those quarters was taken pretty
much as a matter of course by the younger
men.

i 3 4 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

'I am sure I don't know,' Lord George
replied, rather red in the face.

8 Then you ought to know, sir. You wrote
it, and you ought to know what it means. I'll
be blank blanked if I put up with such blanked
impertinence and carelessness ; it would disgrace
the greenest attache. Head it ; read it aloud,
sir,' as poor Lord George, in his embarrassment,
made as if to leave the room, slinking
towards the door in order that he might peruse
the offensive document in the privacy of his
own apartments. It ran as follows : 

'At the ball the other Esther, it was
observed that the Emperor conversed for sometime
with the Egyptian Esther, who wore black
evening suit and fez. The absence of the
Empress made the attendance of ladies comparatively
small ; on the other hand, the Esther
touched more freely on European subjects than
would otherwise have been possible.'

There was more of it, but we need not
trouble ourselves beyond this specimen.

1 A nice idea His Eoyal Highness must have
of my secretaries,' cried Lord Adamant; 'a
more ribald, insolent, immoral and profligate
letter I never read. One comfort, it will injure
your career for life. I shan't stand between

A CLERICAL ERROR. 135

you and the consequences of your own blanked
blank folly.'

Lord George could only apologise profoundly.
Explanations were not forthcoming.
4 1 shall look into it,' said his chief. He did
look, and he found  Esther Eodostamos.
You had better take care what you're about
in that quarter,' was all he said to Lord George,
and Lord George knew exactly what he had to
expect.

The story somehow leaked out, and pared
and polished was passed round at a souper
intime by one of the court wits.

Thus at last it came to Esther's ears, in the
form of a gentle reproach from an august
personage interested in her fate.

You have nearly cost that young man his
situation ; he is so bewildered and dazzled that
he writes sonnets in place of despatches, and
last week nearly involved us in a European
quarrel. He is a good parti. You should put
him out of his misery.'

And now that, as Earl of Dovedale, he had
come back once more to renew his offer, Esther
felt that, should she refuse him, everyone would
write her down a witless weakling or a heartless
flirt.

i 3 6 AUT C&SAR AUT NIHIL.

All her own friends were against her,,
thinking her foolish for not knowing her own
mind ; whereas she knew it only too well.

Fraulein Fest was against her ; the few
words of graceful badinage that had fallen from
Imperial lips, pointed to the consummation of
a wedding as one to be ' devoutly wished ' by
all well-disposed to the young people ; and
there was besides the fatal fact of the proverbial
power of persistent water droppings.

It was scarcely surprising that Esther, withall
this in her mind, should wrap herself round
in a mantle of silence as, leaning back in her
corner of the carriage, she pondered gloomily
on the inconvenience of the situation.

The long shadows and level rays of the
setting sun warned the ladies that it was time
to return home. Esther had just given the
order and closed her parasol, when two gentlemen,
riding rapidly from the direction of
Peterhof, overtook the carriage, and turning,
lifted their hats in passing salute.

Esther blushed crimson.

8 That was Lord George  Lord Dovedale, I
mean,' she said, correcting herself. 'And
with him was Mr. Graham.'



CHAPTER XXIV.

SOLITUDE.

The year was drawing to its close.

Hero sat by the drawing-room fire with an
open letter in her hand.

The letter was from Bianca ; and a close
inspection would have told the curious that
tears had fallen upon it. They were the
mother's tears, not the daughter's.

On that occasion when we last saw Hero
she had also 'held a letter in her hand. A
letter enclosed to her by Mrs. Hudson, addressed
to Bianca in unknown writing.

In truth, it was a mere note.

My dear child,' it said ; ' I forgive you.
All the rest is, as your own poet says, "Silence." '

In her loneliness (for the great loss of her
life had left her utterly lonely), in the feeling
that her child, her one ewe-lamb, her fleeting,
the fostered pet of the nest, sheltered anxiously

138 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

from the outer world, dependent on those immediately
about her for love and happiness,
should have established intimacies and inaugurated
a clandestine correspondence  a
correspondence which the mother, in her simple
philosophy of implicit confidence, dreamed not
of  Hero felt herself betrayed. In the first
revolt of her wounded feelings  feelings in
which the anguish of what seemed to her like
disloyalty, betrayal, lovelessness on her child's
part, gnawed at her very heartstrings  she was
paralysed. All that life had hitherto meant to
her had crumbled into ruin. To Fitz she had,
in the first overwhelming surprise of her sorrow,
confided something of these feelings, and
had declared she must have time to recover
from the blow, and also to make up her mind
as to what course of action it would be wisest
to take in the future with regard to Bianca.
Fitz, who had gone to her a self-constituted
ambassador, to negotiate Bianca's return home,
felt that he could no longer press the reunion
of mother and daughter. He had wished it
originally for Bianca's sake, thinking the moral
atmosphere of Portland Place not good for her ;
but, having seen Hero in her thrice lonely
misery, he had only desired that some warmth

SOLITUDE. 139

of love and tenderness might unloose the iron
bands that grief had bound round her heart.

Although no such word was spoken between
them, it was tacitly understood that when Hero
met her daughter once more, it would be with
words of reproof and inquiry, with expressions
of displeasure and condemnation. Indeed it
could scarcely be otherwise. Even Fitz himself
had mentally condemned her too easy-going
acquiescent attitude. And, much as he loved
the girl, he deplored her wilfulness. But now,
weakness on Hero's part would be worse than
her foregone blunders ; it would be a crime.
She must guide the girl who could not guide
herself ; who had, in fact, taken the bit between
her teeth, and gone  who knew how far?  in a
headlong gallop on her wild career.
c My dear child. I forgive you.'
Jealousy, the jealousy of family affection, that
resents outside influence ; the manly jealousy
that looks with searching eye at the honour of
its womankind ; the jealousy of the lover who
has not dared to approach the lady of his love
with other than measured words ; jealousy of
the unknown, the undefined, the vague, the
dangerous, which knows how fatal, in her
ignorance of the world, all independent action

140 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

must be to a young girl, how hopelessly it may-compromise
her best happiness and involve her
reputation for life  all these feelings sent Fitz
on his homeward way, anything but rejoicing.

He left Hero, to come upon Mrs. Fitzgerald
and Bianca at high words. And for a time he
felt all the unwisdom of attempting to approach
the exasperated girl with threats or remonstrances
on the score of her deceit and secrecy,
of her clandestine correspondence (for, man or
woman, the letter he had in his pocket was the
evidence of intrigue), of her want of straightforwardness
and openness towards one to
whom it was doubly due, towards whom deception
was doubly false. The openness was.
due as from a child to a parent, but doubly
due in virtue of her mother's implicit and
generous confidence. Of her dispute with Bianca
Mrs. Fitzgerald thought it better to take no
further notice. There was, so far, an armistice
that they met at meals ; but each felt and all
knew that at any moment the false semblance of
peace might be shattered by the shock of some
fresh encounter, and that, at best, they were but
passing through a period of armed neutrality.

Besides, in the natural order of tidings
Bianca would be returning home.

SOLITUDE. 141

No letter came from Hero. ' I wonder
why mamma doesn't write,' said Bianca.
This gave Fitz the opportunity he was looking
for.

Truth to tell, the young lady would have
been glad, in face of her aunt's grim austerity
of demeanour, to have pleaded filial duties as
the motive of a return home. Although, in
her first outburst of rage she had declared she
would never voluntarily go back to the roof
that had hitherto sheltered her, yet reflection
told her that necessity would compel a temporary
endurance of the old outer conditions,
until such time as independence of action
should proclaim her definite emancipation from
bondage.

Home she would go. As she crossed the
threshold her demeanour should plainly show
offence. She would, at a convenient moment,
explain her grievances and announce her projects.
Her mother would be overwhelmed
with consternation, confusion, dismay, wounded
affection. Then Bianca would loftily explain
to her parent how she had forfeited her
(Bianca's) esteem, and, in spite of tears and
entreaties, she would unflinchingly take the
course which by that time she should have

142 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

fully matured. But things were destined to
fall out after a fashion somewhat different to
the programme planned by Bianca.

Mrs. Fitzgerald was bound for Dulwich,
whither she went once a fortnight to visit an
invalid friend. On these occasions Bianca was
always left behind.

6 You were wondering,' Fitz said, as he
came up into the drawing-room, after putting
his mother into the carriage, ' you were
wondering, Bianca, that you had not heard from
your mother.'

She had fancied that he, too, had left the
house for the afternoon. She jumped up r
thrust a book under the sofa cushion, and with
looks both cross and guilty : 

6 Have you heard from her ? ' she asked.

No. Nor do I expect to hear. But I
am forced to speak to you, since when I last
saw her I told her I would do so ; and she
may be waiting to hear from me.'

< Well ? '

'Does your conscience smite you on any
point ? Is there any conceivable reason arising
out of your own conduct, why your mother
should not write to you ? '

'No.'

SOLITUDE. 143

Think again, Bianca.'

'No.'

Do you know whose writing this is ? Do
you know from whom this letter comes? ' and
he took the thin envelope out of his pocket,
and held it up for Bianca to inspect from a
distance.

Like a young panther, before her cousin
had realised such a possibility, the girl had
made her spring. The letter was in her hands,
the colour flashed crimson into her cheeks, but
she read it before answering his question.
Then, looking at the seal : ' Who opened it ? '
she said.

Do you know from whom it is ? ' he asked
again.

What's that to you ? '

It is something to me. But I don't ask it
for my own sake, nor even on my own
account. Do you know from whom it
comes ? '

< I do.'

 Will you tell me ? '

'No.'

Will you tell me what it means ? '

< No.'

i 4 4 A UT CSAR A UT NIHIL.

'What right has anyone to write " My
dear Child " to you, except your mother ? '

8 And she never says it.'

Repartee is no answer ; nor is pertness in
place here, for this is a very serious matter,
though you may not think it.

6 You are not my keeper.'

4 No, I am only your cousin. But it might
be my duty to go to your grandfather, and to
consult with him as to the best course to
pursue.'

No answer.

'Bianca, you will please understand that
you have to answer me. What I say I say
for myself and on my own responsibility, but
understand that short of prejudicing the cause
I represent, I do so in your mother's name and
by her authority. Perhaps, if you will lay
aside all pride and defiance, I may be able to
help you. I desire to do so: with all my
heart I desire it.'

But Bianca was invulnerable. ' You had
better go on with your lecture, and get it
over,' she said, assuming an air of passive
endurance.

There is no lecture ; no sermon ; only you
will have to explain. You cannot stay here ;

SOLITUDE. 145

you must return home. Only, before you return,
you must explain the meaning of this
clandestine correspondence, and try to win
your mother's forgiveness of an injury which it
is not in the nature of things she can soon
forget.'

Indeed ? '

Yes, indeed and in truth. Perhaps you
have behaved less badly than, on the face of
things, might seem. At any rate, there is only
one way out of the trouble now. If there bea
way, it lies through a full, free, and ample confession
of everything connected with the whole
affair.'

Although he spoke so boldly, Fitz's heart
was soft within him, thinking of all the misery
the girl would have to go through, and yet
knowing she must go through it  nay, that it
was necessary to her salvation  if she were to
be rescued in very truth from the snares of the
fowler. All this, and much more, passed
through his mind as he waited for an answer.
But no answer was forthcoming.

Well ? ' he said at length.

'Well, I have nothing to say  unless 
may I ask you a question or two ? ' and Fitz,

VOL. II. L

146 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL

who saw that anything was better than obstinate
silence, replied that she might.

Did you open that letter ? '

4 No.'

< Who did ? '

4 Who could have done so ? '

Did mamma ? '

6 Of course.'

Have you read it ? '

'I have.'

Well,' said Bianca, getting up from the
sofa and standing straight in front of him, the
letter in her hand so close to his that he could
easily have snatched it from her had the position
been such as to recommend snatching to his
intelligence ; ' well, I have only this to say. I
told you I would never forgive those who have
deceived me, lied to me, kept me in ignorance
of facts I had a right to know, treated me like
a baby, kept me in leading-strings.'

Let us forget all that, Bianca ; you spoke
hastily.'

Thank you, I will not forget, and what I
said in haste I repeat at leisure. What ! my
letters are opened when my back is turned, my
correspondence is intercepted, seals are broken,
confidences betrayed, and you expect me to

SOLITUDE. 1 47

apologise ? If I am deceitful, I have been
taught a lesson of deceit ; if I am rebellious, it
is because a slavish, ignorant submission was
expected of me. For myself,' the angry girl
went on, inflaming herself with the sound of
her own words, ' I do not care, or I might not
have cared ; but I will not jeopardise or betray
the secrets of others. I know nothing about
my father but that he is dead. Were he alive,
though he had worked in the galleys, though
he were branded by disgrace, though the world
despised and rejected him, though he were in
poverty and exile, I would go to him now '
she thought how her friends would applaud
this defiance of the tyranny of the law). ' That
I cannot do. There is not a soul in the world
I can turn to. Your mother has outraged
me ; my mother has sacrificed me to her own
selfish whims and caprices ; told me nothing,
treated me like a puppet, kept me in the dark,
tyrannised over me under the pretence of love,
mewed me up, though she has enjoyed not only
the liberty every decent woman may, but the
wider independence of public and professional
life, whilst I, forsooth, must know no one,
go nowhere, make no acquaintances, learn
nothing of the world, but turn like a squirrel in

L 2

i 4 8 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

its cage in one long dull, daily round of monotonous
routine, that might break the spirit
of a convict ! And you come to me with
counsel to ask pardon, to cringe and crouch
and cry, like a naughty child, to be whipped
and to be forgiven. Thank you ! All that is
over. What my mother has done I can do.
I suppose I can find money by hook or by
crook. Amongst all of my father's name in
Italy I shall surely find one who will put mein
the way that I intend to follow. If not, I
have other things  I have other friends, other
projects in view. You have said I cannot stay
here. I reply, I will not. I will not go home.
If my mother had had any fault to find she
could have found it herself. She did not need
to confide her wrongs to you, and make you
the ambassador of her griefs and woes, the
arbiter and the umpire between herself and
me. You have been vastly ready among you
to cast me off, thinking I should come crawling
to your feet, begging forgiveness and protection.
You are mistaken ! It is I who cast you off! '
And in her passion JBianca snapped her fingers,
and then waved her hand in protest, as though
sweeping her foes out of the orbit of her
offended vision.

Shameless, outrageous, heartless, as her

SOLITUDE. 149

words were, Fitz would not let disgust get the
better of pity, nor anger kill the kindness which
this wilful girl so sorely needed. He told himself
that love-follies and day-dreams had already
died away, but that, in the absence of father or
brother, it still behoved him to have mercy on
this girl who had no mercy on herself  who, in
her blind fury, would hurl herself headlong to
destruction, unless something, as yet untried,
might haply check her mad career.

4 Bianca ! ' he said, and tried to take her
hand. She snatched it from his grasp, thinking
it was the letter he wanted.

'Not that he said, discouraged by her persistent
wrong-headedness ; ' what can it matter
who has the letter ? '

6 It matters to me.'

You refused to tell me from whom it came.
Shall I tell you?'

4 As you please.'

It is from Mellin  Baron Mellin, as he
calls himself.'

4 Whatever he calls himself he is But

that is a part of the narrow-minded illiberality
that you, all of you, make your guiding rule,
your text.

4 And by what right does he address you as

ISO AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

88 My dear Child ? " A man old enough, it is true,
to be your father, and to show you your duty
to your mother, if you don't know it ; but a
stranger to your mother, misleading you '

8 A man who is above, who has no time for,
all this petty personal rubbish.'

8 1 understand the reproach, but it cannot
influence me. 1 cannot be above the duties
and affections that lie nearest me. Nothing is
petty where you are concerned.'

8 You take a mistaken view of your duties

6 And what of my affections ? I have known
and loved your mother for years.'

In her bitter wrath and jealousy a new
thought struck Bianca, and its novelty and
its suddenness caused her, even in her rage, to
pause and look at Fitz with new eyes, wondering
if she had been so blind as it now appeared
to her distorted vision.

8 For years he repeated, emphasising the
words ; 8 and I have never seen her say or doa
thing I would have wished said or done otherwise.
She has been brave in misfortune,
enduring in trial, industrious, modest, dignified,
and uncomplaining in adversity. She has been
a good daughter and a good mother. As a
wife I did not know her, but those who did

SOLITUDE. 151

have never been heard to blame her. Can I
remain unmoved when I go to her, as I went a
few days ago, and find her sitting by her desolate
hearth, grieving for the loss of her mother,
longing for the presence of her child, the child
to whom her whole life has been one long
devotion ? '

'She should have found some object more
worthy of her devotion.'

She should, Bianca, though it ill becomes
you to say so. I should not be a man if I
could see all this, and not be moved to pity.
In the name of love and every dutiful feeling, I
implore you to bethink yourself ; to let better
counsels prevail ; to go to your mother, frankly
and freely, whatever it may cost you, acknowledge
your faults, and try, by tenderness, to
heal the wound that is rankling in that tender
breast. She is your mother ; think of that.
It implies every claim and every duty. I am
sure you will not reject my appeal.'

But she did reject it. To her mind, perverted
by passion, every word in recognition
of her mother was condemnation of herself.
No one cared how she might suffer, no one
offered her sympathy and aid ; well, she would
do without them all. They should see.

152 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

And thus, buoyed up by her jealous wrath,
animated by a wild longing for liberty, with
resentment beating loudly at her heart that an
attempt should have been made to restrict her
life to the safe limits of home, Bianca made
no compromise as she felt no qualms. She
told Fitz what she meant to do, and he saw
that no argument would prevent her doing
it. He did not even recommend that she
should be thwarted. She put her name down
at a governesses' agency, and she wrote to
Mellin and to Julie de Kerezoff to look out fora
situation, either as reader and amanuensis to
a great lady, or as governess to young children
in some noble family. She was now seventeen,
and, as she said, looked considerably older.

It was better she should do this, Fitz told
himself, than that she should go to Italy, either
to be adopted by one or other of the Martello
family, or, on pretext of studying for the stage,
to sink into the easy manners and frivolous
existence of so-called ' professional life.'

All these arrangements must take time, and
that time had better be spent under Mrs. Fitzgerald's
roof, for Fitz at length succeeded in
frightening his mother into self-control by
telling her that if Bianca committed any

SOLITUDE. 153

public act of folly the disaster would be laid at
their door. He went to and fro between
mother and daughter, and won Hero to his
own views, and even persuaded her to forego
seeing the girl before she left England, promising
her that he would go a stage of Bianca's
journey with her, when the time for departure
came.

The mother's pride and wounded affection
were ready for any compromise. But the
daughter was obdurate. Indignation still vexed
her 'as a thing that is raw.' She had no
desire to go to her mother's house, and though
her sense of obligation to Fitz would have
perhaps induced her to make the concession
had he pleaded very hard, she was  by his
urgent advice to Hero  not called upon to
make it. He wished to spare Hero the fresh
disappointment which must inevitably be her
portion if mother and daughter met.

Julie de Kerezoff and the lady at the
governesses' agency both recommended her for
the same situation as governess to Prince Paul
Karishkin's sons, the grandsons of that Prince
Karishkin of whom we have had a dissolving
view at the ball in the Winter Palace.

It was Fitz who lent her the money for her

154 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

travelling expenses, and for the additions necessary
to her modest toilette. She was in black,,
and said she should wear nothing else so long
as she was in Russia. It was Fitz who saw the
last of her on foreign shores as she set out on
her solitary journey.

Again and again he had implored Hero to
write to Graham, and tell him of her troubles
and let him come to her. His secret thought,
scarcely formulated to himself, was that Hero's
heart, unless some near human sympathy touched
it, would not bear the strain of events. But
she persistently refused. To her it seemed
impossible that she should complain of, lessen,
or lower her child in the estimation of the one
man in all the world to whom she would fain
have shown Bianca, a flawless gem. But Fate,
in this one particular, was stronger than her will.

One day, just after he had left Hero and
was walking gloomily homewards, Fitz stumbled
on Graham arm in arm with Lord George
Several. Fitz and Lord George had been
undergraduates together, and had both known
Graham when his art had brought him once
more to the town of the Thames and the Isis.
The youths  finding their acquaintance of the
palette and white umbrella was an old Oxonian

SOLITUDE. 155

felt a double interest in his work, and were
proud of Graham's notice when he, now and
again, accepted their frank and free academical
hospitality. It pleased him to find himself once
more within the kindly embraces of Alma Mater,
and the youths, to whom he seemed a traveller,
a man of the world, an artist, and a gentleman,
looked upon his kindly patronage as an honour.
Thus there were exclamations of pleasure when
the three men met in Holies Street, and Fitz
heard with secret satisfaction of a Government
commission, which included an inspection of
Russian art-treasures and antiquities, that was
to make Graham the guest of Lord Dovedale
at St. Petersburg, for which capital they were
to start almost immediately.

Hero refused to see Graham, wishing before
all things not to be betrayed into explanations
regarding Bianca's sudden emancipation ; she
would leave the delicate matter in Fitz's hands,
begging him to tell Graham that she was too
much shaken by late sad events to see anyone,
and might leave town any day, as the state of
her health urgently demanded change of air
and scene. Graham called twice, but was not
admitted. He was secretly hurt at being
relegated to the ranks of mere acquaintance,

-T56 A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

but made no sign. Meanwhile it was settled,
to Hero's intense relief, that Graham should,
in that distant land, keep, if possible without
being seen, an eye on Bianca, her doings and
surroundings. He need never come across her
path unless he chose; on the other hand, he
would have every facility for keeping them au
courant of her proceedings.

It certainly seemed like leading Bianca to
the stake, or to the altar of sacrifice, or putting
the bowl and dagger within convenient reach,
thus precipitating her into the arms of her secret
correspondents ; but Fitz had been accidentally
cheered by a few .words Lord Dovedale had
let fall with regard to Mellin.

Asked if he knew him, he had answered
as much as anyone (except a chosen few)
could know him ; ' that he was a busy man, full
of scientific manias and hobbies ; a dreamer and
a visionary, and so indifferent to the charms of
the fair sex that the wags had invented a witty
proverb at his expense, together with more to
the same effect, which made Fitz hope and
believe Mellin alike too prudent, and too indifferent,
to compromise himself by conspicuous
friendliness towards Prince Karishkin's governess.


SOLITUDE.



Thus it was that Graham found himself at
St. Petersburg during the first days of early-opening
summer, whilst Bianca had accompanied
the Karishkin family to their estates in
the Crimea.

There had been an unwritten compact,
arranged by Fitz, that none of the burning
questions at issue between mother and daughter
should be entered into by letter. Bianca seemed
quite unable to do her mother's purity of motive
and blamelessness of life, justice ; and Hero
could not forgive a long system of treachery
and deceit, culminating in open rebellion on
Bianca's part, Had the rebellion been explicable,
had the girl revealed anything of the
attitude of her mind beyond revolt, it might
have been easier to deal with, and certainly
easier to excuse, her. Much might have been
allowed for something tangible that could be
argued or explained away. But of the hidden
motives and influences at work, Bianca would
say nothing ; entrenching herself behind a
bristling phalanx of her own grievances, that
made it impossible to convince her others had
causes of complaint far graver than her own.

For Hero there was nothing but incessant occupation
unless she meant to succumb to the yet

158 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

worse misery of brooding over her griefs in
inaction. She had more pupils than she could
well find time for, and her solitude gave the opportunity
for a resumption of old pursuits. Two
songs, of which the words and music were hers,
had become popular during the summer, and
she already began to repent their publication.
Several music publishers, and one or two
managers, had called upon her ; a larger life
was once again open to her recognition ; popularity,
and the possibility of an ever increasing
social circle, easily within her grasp. But she
turned from all offers and persuasions with a
disgust and bitterness of soul that, in a less
sweet nature, would have speedily become resentment.
Even now, as she sat alone with
Bianca's last letter in her hand, there seemed to
her a horrible mockery in the brass band at the
end of the street, and the barrel organ round
the corner, both braying and grinding out
the melodies she had grown to shudder at.
Presently street boys would take up the refrain,
the milkman would whistle it behind his cans,
the costermonger over his barrow, joining in
chorus where the tune struck his sympathies.
Thousands of tongues and lips and voices daily
repeated these words without a thought of the

SOLITUDE. 159

writer, who sat craving for a crumb of comfort,
for a word of love in her 'blank solitude ; coveting
a token of sympathy in vain.

From her present superfluity she could
extract none of those pleasures which she had
promised herself to enjoy through Bianca's
eyes, after a fashion that had not been possible
to her own youth. She had sent the girl a
handsome sum of money, the result of the
melodies of which she was already repenting.
The money was returned. 4 1 am paid so
generously,' Bianca said, ' that I cannot spend
my wages. It would be absurd for me to
wear jewels or expensive stuffs ; we are living
here in a vast green solitude, the nearest shop
thirty miles off; all our wants, which are
necessarily few, supplied from the estate.
Prince Karishkin's agent goes now and again to
town, and executes our commissions. Silks for
the Princess's embroidery, writing paper forme,
twine, tops, paints for my pupils. But we
live in too princely a style for anyone to be
troubled about trifles. The list is made, the
items are paid for, we get what we want, and
there is no more about it.'

But the Karishkins would soon return from

160 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

the Crimea, and then Bianca's life in St. Petersburg
would begin in real earnest.

Hitherto the existence she had led had been

negative. Her pupils took their lessons in the

open air ; she was free to wander with them

at will in the vast solitudes surrounding the

chateau. She had much time to herself. The

long days spent in the park and plantations ;

the monotony of the routine, attendant on the

vie de chateau, in a remote district, had given

her ample time both for reading and reflection.

The Princess, a delicate, amiable woman, who

liked to have pleasant things and people about

her, was interested in the girl's youth and

beauty ; puzzled to see a well-bred young lady,

who was entirely at her ease, whose manners

were charming and whose tact was perfect,

in a subordinate position. Too weak, with too

little power of volition to specially attract

Bianca, she had, so far, gained her affection

that the girl desired to please and obey the

gentle lady. When they were alone she

would sing to the Princess, whose enthusiastic

love of music made her own weak chest and

enfeebled condition painfully irksome to her.

You must have lessons all through the
winter when we get back to town,' she said ;

SOLITUDE. 161

aud you must sing at my receptions some of
those strange characteristic Scotch and Irish
melodies which all foreigners love so much
better than you English do ; ' and Bianca smiled
and thanked her. But it was not of her songs
she was thinking.

St. Petersburg was her Mecca and Medina,
her Canaan, her Promised Land, her Jerusalem ;
the shrine that held her prophet. A winter at St.
Petersburg included a thousand nameless possibilities,
in the anticipation of which not even
the level monotony of Khotineff life seemed
irksome. It only gave her greater leisure to
picture in imagination the days that were
coming, when, once more, all that was worth
living for, all that she longed to be, to do, and
to suffer, would give full employment to her
faculties, renew her energies, and prove to her
sometimes faint and faltering spirit that no
grain of sand is too insignificant for incorporation
in the brick, no brick so unworthy
but that it may help to the final edification of
the temple.

It was scarcely possible that the long months
of intimate intercourse at Khotineff should pass
without an occasional allusion to the events of
the day.

VOL. II. M

1 62 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Prudent as the Karishkins were, they had
no cause to fear Bianca's indiscretion, for she
had come to them at Madame de KerezofF's
recommendation, who had urged her protegee's
claims on Prince Karishkin with her usual
energy.

Will your father visit us this summer ? '
the Princess Paul asked of her husband one day
at luncheon.

4 No, I think not. He did not tell me his
plans, but I fancy he expects to have business
at a distance which will call him away from
Russia.'

6 Ah ! ' said the Princess, smiling, ' he still
thinks us shabby, half-hearted, poor-souled
creatures  a sort of mean-spirited " Ukrivateli ; "
and turning to Bianca, she added, 'from his
lips that amounts to a term of reproach, you
know.'

Indeed ? I do not understand the meaning
of the term in any sense,' she replied.

6 " Ukrivateli" are persons,' the Princess said,
4 who, although of recognised position  as, for
instance, members of the aristocracy, of the
upper middle classes, officials, military and
civil, from the highest to the lowest grades,
including every branch of the service, even the

SOLITUDE. 163

police  share the revolutionary ideas of the
Propaganda, and yet take no active part in the
struggle. Persons who, for reasons of their
own. remain passive, yet are ready and willing
to make use of their social influence, and to
lend powerful aid to the disaffected, by concealing,
when necessary, both the leaders and their
subordinates ; both the persons and things
which would compromise them if found in
their possession. Thus, when my father-in-law,
who is an ardent supporter of advanced ideas,
calls us " Ukrivateli" it assumes, in his mouth,
a sense of reproach.'

This cannot be interesting to Mdlle. Martello,'
said the Prince, rising to leave the room.

Indeed it is,' Bianca replied earnestly.
We in England know so little of these things,
that I am most anxious to learn all I can.'

Ah ! ' said the Princess, looking affectionately
after her husband, ' you cannot guess
how difficult our position is, nor how I tremble
for the future. Prince Paul has the most liberal
ideas ; he belongs to what is called the second
party in the State. Numerically it is very
large, and socially it is very strong. At its
head we reckon our future Emperor, Prince
Tcherkassi, the two Akasoffs, Katkoff, the editor

M 2

164 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

of the Moscow Gazette, and many other distinguished
men, whose names you would not
know. They call themselves the " National
Party," in contradistinction to the old Tory or
Court party ; and they perhaps chiefly differ
from more advanced Liberals on the question
of the means to be employed to attain the end
in view.' Mercantile people, rich traders,
bankers, a great proportion of the clergy, the
army, and civil servants belong to us, and place
all their hopes for the future of Kussia, in the
temperance and wisdom of our counsellors.'
And why should Prince Karishkin object ? '
It is we who object. Violence, crime,
outrage, and intimidation can only delay the
fulfilment of our hopes for our unhappy
country. These upright gentlemen, whose
characters and honour are stainless, and who
have large interests at stake, see nothing but
destruction and ruin in the outbreaks and lawlessness
of rash, hot-headed, obscure persons,
without weight or authority, without conscience
or religion. And every fresh outbreak delays
the reforms which a liberal enlightenment
acknowledges to be the most pressing necessity
of the political situation.'

Bianca looked at her silently. After a

SOLITUDE. 165

pause  ' How wisely you speak ! ' she said. ' I
thought, Princess, that you knew nothing of
politics.'

It is my husband's wisdom, not mine,' the
Princess answered, blushing as she spoke.
Her love for him gave her in such matters ashe
had at heart a larger intelligence.

Bianca wondered whether any information
she might thus pick up would be useful to
Mellin.

And Prince Karishkin ? ' she asked, as if
recalling the speaker to the text.

'Oh, my father-in-law goes to extreme
lengths, as you would probably infer from
the fact of his close friendship with Madame
de KerezofF, who makes no secret of her
opinions.'

She never spoke to me of him, or only
incidentally.'

Of course this is one of his estates, only
he allows us to live here whenever we choose.
He is so very kind that I cannot bear to say a
word which might seem disrespectful to him ;
but he is a living contradiction. As a boy he
was educated in the corps of Court Pages, and
his brilliant abilities caused him to pass every
examination with eclat. His love of science led

166 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

him to prefer travel to Court service, and he
applied for permission to visit Siberia, on a
journey of geological research. He extended
his travels to China, and on his return to St.
Petersburg he became president and associate
of various scientific societies. He received
several decorations, and was made Chamberlain
to the Empress. He published a work on the
glaciers of Finland that attracted much attention
at the time ; and no one suspected him of
any active interest in politics until, after a long
absence in Belgium, Germany, France, and
Switzerland, he confessed his advanced views.
Disguised as a working man, he gave (under
the name of Borodin) lectures to the workingmen
of the Alexander Newski district, and told
them the history of the " Internationale? The
police bribed the men to betray him, and he
was arrested on the Newski Prospect The
trial caused the greatest consternation in St.
Petersburg " society," and his sentence to three
years' imprisonment excited much indignation
in certain classes. Fortunately for him, he was
allowed during confinement to continue his
scientific writings, and on his health breaking
down he was sent to the hospital, and passed
the rest of his term under tolerably favourable

SOLITUDE. 167

conditions. But his opinions, far from having
undergone modification during confinement,
are more extreme than ever ; and his son, who
is deeply attached to him, lives in constant
dread of some catastrophe. He sees in his
father the tool and dupe of interested persons ;
for the National Liberal party abhorrently
disclaims all participation in crimes of violence
and blood. The  Nihilists,' said the Princess,
sinking her voice and hesitating at the word,
1 have, undeniably, shown enthusiasm, courage,
and determination ; but wrong-headedness,
defiance, and excitement cannot accomplish
the mighty task which lies before the regenerators
of Russia. So far they have put
forth no plausible, or even possible programme ;
they form no ostensible, no steady, respectable,
representative party, with a consolidated
interest in the State, with functions regularly
filled and fulfilled. They are a body without
a Head, a following without a Leader ! '

The announcement that M. Aivasovsky  a
celebrated artist whose estate adjoined that of
Khotineff  desired to pay his respects to the
Princess, dispensed Bianca from all reply.

168 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

Chapter XXV.
a rivederla!

Events were, however, not destined to fall out
in accordance with Bianca's programme.

All was ready for the return of the Parish
family to St. Petersburg, when the Princess
took a severe cold. The doctor attached to the
household, who acted as travelling physician
whenever the family moved, declared the
journey not to be thought of. Then, as the
violence of the attack passed away, he confided
to Prince Karishkin that his wife's only chance
lay in wintering in the south  Egypt or Italy.

Bianca heard his fiat with dismay. She
hoped the wilfulness which, had she been less
amiable, might have made a despot of the
Princess, would cause her to rebel ; but for
once the lady was convinced that all who knew
her desired to fulfil her least caprice, and

A RIVEDERLAi 169

she submitted without a word of opposition.
Probably some inner monitor told her that a
speedy escape from the rigours of a Eussian
winter would afford the only chance of seeing
another spring, for she urged forward the
preparations for departure with an almost
feverish anxiety, as though dreading lest any
untoward accident should make the journey
impossible.

She took it for granted that Bianca would
accompany her little charges, from whom the
mother would not consent to be separated.

6 1 should have gone to Egypt, but for you
and them,' she said sweetly. c I fancy they
would suffer from the necessary shifts and
inconveniences of Nile-travelling, which, let
one do what one may, is always rather of
the picnic order of existence ; and for you,
all our fine projects of an Italian master can
now be realised with a freedom of choice
that even our beloved St. Petersburg could not
have afforded.'

Only that I cannot go with you, Madame.'

You are jesting. How can I replace you ?
And my poor boys ! they will lose all their
English just when they were getting on so
nicely.'

170 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

1 At their age a few months can make but
little difference.'

You must go with us.'

'Excuse me. I meant to have spoken to
the Prince, so as not to trouble you ; but I
have had no opportunity, he has always been
busy. But, since you are so much better,
Madame, it is only right that I should tell
you I cannot accompany you.'

'But why not?'

I came to Russia as you go to Italy.'

'For your health?' asked the Princess,
smiling ; ' that can scarcely be.' *

No ; but because I meant to come here.
Had I meant to go to Italy, I should have gone
there.'

The Princess looked at her in amazement.

Do you know, you English are wonderful,'
she said  ' wonderful, almost horrible, almost
unamiable in your unvarnished bluntness and
independence. / meant  I should  / should
not  and at your age, when most girls are timid
shadows, hiding behind their mother's '

It was precisely because I was not timid,
and not a shadow, that I determined not to
hide behind, or be hid by my mother, Madame ;
but I must not intrude myself or my family

A RIVEDERLA! 171

affairs upon you, since they can be of no
possible interest. Excuse me.'

4 Not at all ; I am interested,' said the
Princess, eyeing her with curiosity and wonder.
4 But you are Dot altogether English : so much
your name tells ; and perhaps that may account
for many things which puzzle me. I don't
know how well-born young Italian girls maybe
brought up ; Nature is sooner ripe in the
south, and seventeen means a woman, I am
told, in warmer climates.'

4 Will you let me know when it will be
convenient that I should leave you ? ' asked
Bianca, passing by the Princess's reflections.

But, my child  forgive me for calling you
so ' (and the delicate lady stretched out a thin
blue-veined hand and laid it on Bianca's, who
sat looking at the glittering gems, but made
no effort at response)  'but we, we are not
barbarians ; we cannot leave you. We must
at least find a home for you, look after your
interests and your comforts. That responsibility
is laid upon us.'

'You forget, Princess. I can write to
Madame de Kerezoff, who recommended me
to you ; and I have other friends in St. Petersburg.
The families of the English agents,

172 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Messrs. Hill, Hardcastle, and Simcox, have
shown me kindness and hospitality ; and, thanks
to your liberality, I am dependent on no one.
If, unfortunately, I cannot go with you, I need
not be a trouble to you.'

'Well  if you will have it so. But write
at once, so that at least I may know you are
safe before I set out on my journey southwards.
You see, in spite of your southern blood and
my northern chilliness, I care more for you
than you do for us, and I could not have you
under my roof these many months and feel no
responsibility, no anxiety on your account. I
know you have no such tenderness for me ; but
you would have, were our positions reversed.'

The gentleness and generosity of the noble
lady touched Bianca more than she would show.
She recoiled from anything like intimacy directly
the subject turned on herself and her own belongings.
She knew that the Princess was too
indolent, too easy-going, too much accustomed
to take existence en grand, to interfere with her
in any way. A lady who has been nurtured
like an exotic, fed and dressed, and carried
hither and thither by a kind of oiled machinery
which makes life a variegated pageant, takes
a great deal for granted, and is not likely to

A RIVEDERLA! 173

trouble herself actively about the private difficulties
of her dependants. A posse of peasants
appeared to welcome a kind master and mistress
when the Prince and Princess visited their
estates ; through the agent or the ' Pope '
certain charities were liberally subscribed to ;
during the winter months noble philanthropic
ladies in St. Petersburg called on Princess Paul
for contributions to orphanages, hospitals, penitentiaries
; she bought costly rubbish by the
cart-loads at bazaars for inundations or famine-stricken
districts ; but these things came and
passed, smote the ear for the moment, moved
the heart to a tender emotion of pity, inspired
a pleasing sense of benevolence, and an amiable
satisfaction in being able to give of the very
superfluity that made ' necessity ' a practical
fable, and then, like other transient things,
evaporated into the trackless space of a by-gone
past.

Perhaps an energetic English lady, howsoever
' great,' in the world's estimation, might
be her position, would have gone a step beyond
formulating the amiable theory of hospitality
advanced by Princess Karishkin, which repudiated
indifference to Bianca's fate as a barbarism.
Such an one would probably have

174 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

found time, when Society's claims were satisfied,
if not before, to look more narrowly into the
antecedents and character of her children's
chosen c guide, philosopher, and friend.' But
Princess Karishkin's education had not tended
in the direction of personal duties and assumptions.
She seemed scarcely less an exotic
than the choice and costly stove plants whose
sickly scent made, all through the winter, the
atmosphere of her hermetically sealed salons so
oppressive to healthier natures. Her own old
peasant-nurse was at the head of the nursery ;
the French bonne was a responsible, capable
woman, and the boys so young, that the romps of
the under-nurses and the fondling of her own old
foster-mother seemed more appropriate to their
years than the instructions of a governess ; and
thus, during her husband's frequent absences,
the Princess made Bianca more and more her
own personal companion, and appropriated her
services with far greater pleasure than would
have been the case, had the girl been less personally
attractive, or her little charges of an
age to make graver demands upon her time.

But this very companionship, Bianca dreaded,
might pledge her to more devotion than she
felt; might bring about questionings that she

A RIVEDERLA! 175

would fain avoid ; and inspire the Princess with
the idea of an attempt at control which Bianca,
in anticipation, already declared to herself was
not within the Bond. Thus she prevailed sofar
that Prince Karishkin, who, like his wife, held
elastic views of life, and was accustomed to
deal with men in groups or masses, not individually,
declared they had no right to control
Bianca against her will, and that, beyond
taking care she escaped any equivocal position,
they must renounce all further direction of her
movements. His yacht was to meet them at
Odessa so soon as the Princess was able to
travel southwards ; and under the charge of
their German agent, Bianca should then set
off for St. Petersburg.

6 Do not pledge yourself for more than six
months,' said the Princess, in farewell, ' for you
must return to us when  if  we come back
with the swallows.'

And feeling all danger of too great familiarity
to be at an end, Bianca impulsively kissed the
delicate and kindly hand held out to her in
farewell.

4 No, no ; not that,' cried the Princess, and
pressed her lips to the girl's cheek ; ' it is your
will that prevails : it ordains that we shall part.

176 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

But let there be no farewells. A rivederla,
Martellina mia ! ' and with something strangely
like tears in her gentle eyes, Princess Paul drew
the portiere hastily across the door of her
boudoir, leaving Bianca cloaked and booted on
the threshold of her journey into the Unknown.



Chapter XXVI.

'THE OLD Order PASSETH AWAY.'

It was Horace Walpole who once exclaimed,
speaking of Russia, ' What a terrible country,
where Siberia is next door to the drawing-room
! '

In other countries revolution rises from
below ; in Russia, as often as not it descends
from above.

Old wrongs, smouldering grievances, class
prejudices, party persecution, taxes, insufficient
and mean-spirited legislation, indifference to
the poor man's woes, vexed questions of capital
and labour, resentments engendered by abuse
of privilege, and a thousand kindred causes,
may in other countries at any moment kindle
into a flame the smouldering spark of discontent.
But in Russia things are differently ordered.

The revolutions, which from time to time
have brought the then existing state of things
to a conclusion, have been called ' Palace Eevo-

VOL. II. X

178 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

lotions,' and by common consent the conspiracies
contemptuously classed as ' Drawing-room
Cabals.' In old days the definition was in
so far correct that the assassination of a sovereign,
the overturn of a favourite, or the change
of a dynasty was effected by some favoured and
powerful few, who, fc behind the scenes,' made
their calculations, took due precautions, and
trusted to Surprise paralysing resistance ; the
prestige of success finally carrying the day, as it
always does, and always must do, with semi-civilised
nations.

But Russia, which seemed slow, in comparison
with other European nations, in imbibing
popular ideas of liberty, having once
tasted of the ' perilous stuff,' assimilated it, all
things considered, with amazing rapidity.

To-day the ' drawing-room ' is no nearer
Siberia than the kitchen, the barrack yard, the
dissecting room, the lecture hall, the theatre, or
the hospital. If the salons send their contingent
of hundreds of distinguished victims to swell
the long train of those martyrs to 'ideas,'
who for so many successive generations have
pilgrims Siberia-wards in grim procession, to
the resounding clank of chains  the echoes of
which seem to rouse the Eussian populace to

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 179

exasperation,  the lower ranks of modern
society have contributed their thousands to
those mines, the bare mention of which sends
a thrill of horror and revolt through the
Eussian breast.

Looking at other nations, Eussians eye their
rare professions of sympathy with profound
distrust. How, they ask, can you understand
that we care for liberties which have so long
been yours that you, thankfully, take them
as a matter of course ? How can you realise
that for the trifles forming a part of the
privileged daily routine which you hold to be
yours of right, every patriot-russian would
gladly lay down his life? How can you appreciate
the anguish of humiliation and misery
we feel, the heart-sickness and despair we
endure at the robbery and jobbery, the wrong
and oppression, the unredeemed cruelty and
neglect, which go year after year, decade after
decade, unrepresented and unpunished, because
the whole people of this vast empire are
in the hands of a privileged few? The system
that should redress such wrongs (were such
a hope granted us) must needs be so comprehensive,
would require so severe a scrutiny,
so conscientious a trial, would exact such

180 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

implicit good faith, singleness of mind, and
steadfastness of purpose, that, even suppose it
could be elaborated and applied, where could
the statesmen and politicians, the judges and
administrators, incorruptible, brave, experienced
and hardworking enough, be found to put the
vast machinery in motion, and keep it going?
We must have men specially educated to such
ends. But to such ends, our first and most
urgent need is, education for the masses ; not of
the conventional colourless pattern, such as
results in a glib facility for using or abusing
modern languages, as the case may be ; nor
the jargon of art and science, nor the mere
pedantry of the schools. We must have
liberal instruction in the social systems of other
countries, their laws and institutions. We must
have license to examine into the causes and
effects of class warfare, class privilege, and class
prejudice ; and, above all things, we must bring
patience, integrity, and love to bear on the
result, and learn how we can best serve the
ends of public justice !

It was this peremptory cry for education
that opened schools and universities in Russia,
offered liberal facilities to the youth of towns,
and introduced an emancipation from the

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 181

trammels of precedent, that broke down old
barriers in its new intensity and ardour, and
demanded that clinical lecture-rooms should
be opened to women at a time when the
medical classes were still shut to them in all
other European countries. Long before the
clamours of the would-be wise virgins of Edinburgh
were causing the male students to rise
en masse and leave the ladies to the undisputed
possession of their invaded benches, girl students
were an accomplished fact in the Eussian
universities. That Herod should out-Herod
himself is no new feature in the phenomena of
philosophic freedom ; and Russia may claim
the honour of having led the van of advanced
opinion as regards the privileges, liberties, and
license of female medical students and medical
practitioners.

Anyone who has travelled, as it is possible
to do in Russia, day after day over vast expanses
of plain, whose level ever-receding
horizons seem to promise inexhaustible stores
of monotony to come, must have asked himself
again and again, ' Where is the population ? '
Catherine the Second, inspired with profound
enthusiasm for the Occidental idea in the legacy
she had indirectly inherited from Peter the

1 82 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

Great, endeavoured to create a bourgeoisie as
she had created a noblesse, on the French model.
To this end she built in twenty-three years no
less than two hundred and sixteen so-called
towns.' Merchants of the first class were to
belong to the rank of nobles, and the sons of
certain officials to become ipso facto c of the
nobility,' as everyone who attained to the fifth
official class, should obtain hereditary rank.

The bureaucracy increased largely by this
attempt at hothouse commerce, where artificial
means were used to keep the forcing system
at a certain temperature. But an Imperial
ukase will not and cannot alone create and
develop industrial enterprise ; and although,
in the first instance, the taxation of classes
seemed to afford a prospect for active officialism,
and a new crop of State servants were nourished
by the labour of artisans and peasants, and by
the taxation of an artificially created population,
yet the system was too false to live ;
and before long, topsy-turvydom worse confounded,
merged all things in a general ' abomination
of desolation.' The ' towns' rotted away
and dropped into oblivion ; the vast army of
greedy officials (Tchinovik) dwindled and disappeared,
leaving in the majority of cases a

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 183

heap of ruins to tell the story of an inchoate
folly.

Thus, as has already been said, the modern
traveller, looking out over verses upon verses of
unbroken solitude, asks himself, ' Who tills the
ground, sows the corn, reaps the harvest, fells
the trees, folds the flocks, drives the herds ? '
It seems impossible that the scattered groups
of log huts, more suggestive of cattle-shelters
than of villages, the sparse settlements of cabins
on the border of some great nobleman's estates,
can provide a population adequate to the agricultural
requirements of such a vast extent of land.

Even the miserable towns, few and far
between, are more suggestive of decay than of
progress. The dilapidated houses grow fewer
and fewer, till they finally give place to dwellings
sparsely scattered amidst market gardens,
beyond which he immense melancholy plains.
In summer, grass grows so high in the deserted
streets that goats and sheep might browse
there ; the roads, in the rainy season, are full
of huge puddles, in which ducks and geese
contentedly disport themselves ; and the appearance
of a stranger, a person not belonging
to the district, is an event. The boys and men
stare at him apathetically as he goes his way ;

1 84 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

whilst if by chance the sound of carriage-wheels
is heard, the painted shutters, red, green, blue,
and yellow, are flung back, and from behind the
gaudy screens, girls and women peer forth,
anxious not to lose the exceptional sight of a
6 bond fide traveller.'

Thus, in treating of Russia those persons
speak ignorantly who include in their discourses
on the c people ' a large middle class, an
industrial population composed of artisans,
mechanics, mill hands, skilled labour, and small
shopkeepers ; whilst the Eussian peasant is,
for the most part, the veriest Gallic as regards
what may be called the ' burning questions '
of the Eussian citizen's day. It is in the
widely scattered towns, in the universities, that
we must seek the unquiet element ; for, as yet,
the distant peasant dreams not, in his remoteness,
of the lengths to which his urban brother's
philosophy goes, nor dimly divines the ends at
which he aims.

So true is this, so impossible is it felt to
compass the vast distances and penetrate the
slumberous calm which form the somnolent
kingdom of the serf, that the ardent politician
acknowledges a double responsibility to manifest
untiring energy and ardour, declaring it toe

THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 185

be incumbent on those who inhabit the great
centres of civilisation to do the same.

The simple, patriarchal inhabitants of these
tranquil districts all know one another. Modern
civilisation, the ' modern idea,' does not trouble
their profound calm and security. Here they,
and their fathers before them, have lived their
quiet lives, moved as the spirit dictated, and
had their somnolent being. Here, too, will
they be buried. They live exactly as their
forefathers lived three or four centuries ago ; and
if now and again, some faint rumour of changes
or innovation re-echoing from the distant
world, comes to shock their prejudices, they
shake their bearded chins incredulously, and
murmur that where such things can be, the
good old times are fast dying out !

In Northern Russia, the rural Communes,
and in Southern Russia, the traditional Cossack
Communal Autonomy, with the representative
Zemstov (provincial assembly), secures the land
to the people ; and, in a purely agricultural
population, the appearance of a stranger, the
artisan, or the industrial, the product of towns
and workshops, creates an excitement anything
but flattering to the new-comer. He is viewed
with mistrust, he is felt to be an intruder, and

1 86 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

his professions of friendliness are regarded with
the utmost suspicion. He can have no abiding,
legitimate interest in the soil.

It is for this reason that the Propagandists
imagined in 1875 the system of colonisation,
which, instead of sending out its emissaries
single-handed, deputed them in groups to
sow the seeds of agitation and disaffection
in certain districts. It was argued that the
jtoselenia, by reason of united forces, might
succeed where the unit Propagandists failed
utterly. These men sought to point out
to the slow and sleepy peasant that, although
in his ' Obscene ' (rural commune) the collective
property of the land, in his 'Mir' or
Granada' (communal assembly) the Eussian
peasant already possesses the fundamental
principles of Socialism, yet  that the present
system is pre condemned, as utterly defective in
its working results.

They lay stress on the fact that industry,
far from meeting with its own reward, is
punished for its labours, so long as the hardworking
and frugal peasant is bound by village
communal laws to pay the taxes and dues of
his fellow communist.

Tourguneff, in one of his ablest Pugilistic

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 187

novels, candidly tells how enthusiastic landed-proprietors,
preaching Socialism to the peasants
on their own estates, are at first regarded with
patient pity by their dependants. The Lord
(Savin) is ' afflicted ' (i.e. mad) of the Almighty,
they say. But when the ardent propagandist
takes unto himself companion maniacs, the
labourers fall on the whole party, cudgel them
into submission, and hale them before the local
authorities. ' A man must needs be mad,' they
say, pointing at their Master, ' to speak such
folly, but we would not have harmed him ; only
these pestilent fellows, seven times worse than
he, we felt bound to belabour and hand over
to Justice ! '

Alexander II., who, in his beneficent and
merciful measure for the enfranchisement of
the serf, gave liberty to twenty-two millions
of men, could yet only give that measure of
liberty which the peasant himself could be
prevailed upon to take.

No Kaiser, however clement, could emancipate
a spirit that had lain dormant under
the drudgery of centuries, or confer a new
character upon the patient, long suffering beings
to whom he granted new liberties.

The Eussian must have a master. If he

1 88 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

have none he will seek one, and will himself
place the foot of his lord upon his neck in
token of submission and fidelity. The most
touching examples of personal devotion are to
be met with from the peasant to the lord of
the soil ; and the serf who follows his master
or mistress into domestic life gives his whole
heart up to loyal service. His 'not to reason
why,' his ' but to do and die,' unquestioning,
uncomplaining, devoted, faithful. It is this
submission, this faculty for worship and obedience,
that makes the Eussian soldier manifest
unexampled patience under difficult circumstances.


During the floods at St. Petersburg many
Eussian soldiers have lost their lives through
refusing to leave their posts ; and it is on
record that, when the Winter Palace was
burned down, a priest who had rescued the
holy vessels from the sanctuary observing a
sentinel at post in the burning passage called
to the man to flee, urging him to a hasty
flight or it would be too late. Unmoved by
his exhortation the man remained behind,
uttering the one word ' Prikass ! ' Duty I
which to the faithful fellow included the whole
situation.

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY.' 189

A European soldier who saw his officer
intoxicated would never feel the same respect
for him again. The Eussian, on the contrary,
adjusts his superior's disordered uniform, dusts
him, brushes him, and conveys him home ;
undresses him and lays him in his bed, as a
mother might her nursling ; and on the morrow
is the same respectful, obedient automaton he
was before, but an automaton with a heart
beating beneath his uniform.

Thus, the serf, also, remains, under slightly
changed conditions, much what he was.
The long pedigree of toil, the century-old habit
of submission, the unquestioning acceptance of
the day and the hour, are his by inheritance ;
nor could he, even if he desired it, shake off,
at the Imperial command, all the traditions
and beliefs of the rude forefathers of the soil.
To-day, as formerly, his sheep, his family, his
saints, the fair to which he journeys, the quality
of his vodki or his kvass, the passing pedlar,
the question of his big boots and skin-lined
caftan, the price of cattle, tallow, hemp, grain,
the cloth of his toulouse  these, and such as
these, be the subjects of his thoughts and talk.
He is, for the most part, a mild, melancholy,
passive, pathetic creature, passionately if dumbly

i 9 o Ali Caesar AUT NIHIL.

attached to the soil, loyal to his lord, superstitious,
and deeply pious, according to his lights ;
calling on the name of the Czar with more of
intrinsic, as more of extrinsic, awe than he
manifests at that of his Creator, ' Batyushka !
Gouda!' The Giver of all good things, the
Father, the dear Lord and Sovereign Euler,
the One orthodox and only Emperor. A
Being very different from that bugbear of
European imagination, t the icy-hearted Muscovite,
the overgrown Barbarian of the East
whom the British Radicals fervently believe to
be ' as full of lies, as Jack on his alehouse
bench,' and scarcely more sober !

In 1864 two Russian women inscribed their
names, at the University of Zurich, as medical
students. Switzerland is a free country under
a republican form of government.

Seven years later the female students at St.
Petersburg (the hereditary home of despotism)
were counted by hundreds, and at Zurich by
dozens. Thus we may assume that the enthusiasm
which hailed the possibility of an
honourable career, and the outlet which severe
studies gave to the female energies, numbered
hundreds of aspirants, crowding to avail themselves
of the privilege in Russia, as against

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 191

dozens at Zurich, recruited from the rest of
Europe, and possibly also from America.

The same spectacle of women flocking to
the medical schools might have been witnessed
at the Universities of Moscow, Kiev, Chariot,
and Odessa. Nor were they discouraged by
the fact that a doctor's degree, and liberty
to practise in the medical profession, were still
refused them, even though they had fairly
gained their diploma. One department, perhaps
the most important of all, was still open
to them in virtue of the certificate thus gained :
and though not all who were entitled to do so
practised as accoucheur, yet the professional
knowledge, skilful touch, and womanly sympathies
of these women doctors made their
presence, in a spirit of neighbourly kindness
at many a bedside, a source of comfort, strength,
and cheerfulness, in her dark hour, to many a
poor woman who must have otherwise passed
unaided through the throes of maternity.

On the other hand, hundreds of young
women who availed themselves of the first
opportunity thus offered of a liberal education,
never intended to practise medicine as a
profession.

They imbibed much more than was 

AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

eluded in the mere routine course of professional
study, and they saw something of the
outer world. They heard new opinions, got
rid of old prejudices, formed valuable friendships,
mixed in different grades of society,
and, for the most part, became enthusiastic
patriots' after their own peculiar fashion.
Largely recruited from the ranks represented
by the magistracy, the superior and inferior
clergy, petty government officials, schoolmasters
and schoolmistress, small merchants and
shopkeepers, these young women had tasted all
the bitterness of spirit which dashes itself
futilely against the immovable rock of narrow
prejudice in small communities. Parish politics,
paltry pettinesses, and the cares that
arise from deficient incomes, had entered ' like
iron ' into their aspiring souls, and they were
thus able not only to appreciate to the full,
but perhaps to overestimate the advantages
included in a more liberal and less ' cribbed,
cabined, and confined ' manner of existence.

As in all communities, amongst them the
good and the bad were to be found. Some
gentle women, inspired with sublime self-devotion
and untiring perseverance in the
noble path of unselfish duty, recall the figures

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY! 193

that imagination is wont to depict as circumscribed
within the narrow limits of the Eoman
calendar of canonised saints. Others, losing
sight of the lofty peaks of virtue in the excitement
of the hour, and in the pursuit of
the vain god of Self, sank deplorably to the
depths of the annexed woman.

A singular development  no doubt inspired
in the first instance by the popular Pugilistic
novels of Tchernichevski  also arose out of
this new school of female progressions, without
which the realisation of his ideal would have
remained an unaccomplished fact.

The woman was no longer to be the painted
puppet, the vapid doll, dressed for a court
ball in gewgaws and spangles, treated as
an irresponsible being by her husband, as a
spoiled child, or beautiful fury, by her family
and dependants ; or  in a lower rank  presenting
the depressing spectacle of a tawdry
attempt at imitation of this deplorable model.

The thin veneer of French polish, so long
strained at by Eussian women of all classes,
was no longer to suffice. The coming woman
was to be the companion, the equal, the friend
of the man. She must live on the proceeds of
her own work ; no longer the chattel of her

vol. 11.

i 9 4 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

parents, kept in the ridiculous subjection of an
irresponsible being, until she is an old woman ;
not able to marry because she has no fortune.
She was to make her own fortune, to choose
her own line of life, and to labour in it as conscientiously
as though she were a man, with a
family dependent on his exertions. She could
give lessons, do clerkly duties, suffice to herself.
She should no longer subject herself to the
reproach of being an expense and a burthen to
the man whom she loved. The like-minded
young man and girl were to live under the
same roof, on terms of equality. He to have
no claims, no rights, other than she also shall
enjoy. Their sitting-room was to be a neutral
ground where they could both meet their
friends, exchange opinions, read and talk together.


Thus the girl is supposed to ' emancipate '
herself, but to no selfish ends.

To marry on inadequate means and have a
large family ; to see her husband a broken-down
slave of the ring, her boys and girls uneducated
or dependent on the unwilling bounty doled
out by disgusted and impatient relatives, is no
longer her ideal of happiness, nor her notion
of the duty a rational human being owes to the

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 195

human family at large, as represented by
Society.' She becomes a teacher and a
preacher ; she shows women that the time
has come when a woman has other duties and
other careers open to her besides that one mission,
already over-fulfilled, of over-populating
the world. She proves that there is no merit
in a premature and unlovely old age, a soured
temper, and an unlimited family. Strange,
almost incredible as it may seem, it is yet a
fact beyond dispute that many of these unions
are absolutely Platonic, and of almost ideal
purity. Names have again and again been
cited, amongst others that of the well-known
Solovief, the shopkeeper or small merchant
from Saratoga, who was told off to assassinate
the late Emperor, and who contracted a Platonic
marriage in order that the girl he loved might
be at liberty to take up his work.

That done, he  with a steadiness of courage
and loftiness of aim which many who give fine-sounding
names to their creeds and practices
might do well to emulate,  crushing all selfishness
on the ' threshold of the mind,' separated
himself from his wife on the very day of their
wedding, and went forward on his solitary way
to preach the propaganda which he firmly


i 9 6 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

believed to contain a true gospel of glad tidings
to his oppressed fellow-countrymen.

And the case of Solovief is by no means an
isolated one. Many of the young women to
whom the university movement came as a
revelation, strongly imbued with the belief that
the aurora of better things was dawning upon
Russia, volunteered to become pilgrims of the
propaganda throughout the provinces, journeying
on foot, or by such chance conveyances as
might offer, from town to town, from village
to village, in peasant costume, living amongst
the serfs, and teaching them by conversation
and by means of the printed sheets which the
Nihilist press turned out in thousands, the story
of their country, and the history of its people
and their wrongs.

Dress and ' fashion ' were at a discount ;
embroidery, ' fancy-work,' and all feminine
idleness and extravagances were abolished,
as unworthy of rational human beings whose
time could be better employed than in the
pursuit of frivolous and puerile, if harmless or
only negatively reprehensible, pursuits. With
the masculinely minded, costume assumed a
manly character. Short hair, worn in a curly
crop, spectacles, cloth jackets and linen collars,

 THE OLD ORDER PASSETH A WA K' 197

gave the girls somewhat the air of male students,
more especially as with their feminine
garments too many of them laid aside a large
portion of their maidenly reserve. But these
examples would not be such as a propagandist
with any tact would be likely to bring before
the notice of the sensitive and refined ; and it
was by tales of exalted female heroism, of sublime
self-devotion, of extraordinary courage
and perseverance, that Julie de Kerezoff had
captivated Bianca Martello's ardent imagination.
The opportunity originally arose out of a
desultory conversation at Sprudelheim, in which
Vera Zasulitch was severely condemned by
all taking part in it, with the exception of
Bianca, who, more out of opposition than from
any real interest in, or knowledge of, the
circumstances, defended the Nihilist heroine.
Julie, always ready to seize and profit by the
occasion, made a mental note of Bianca's tone
of rebellion, and cautiously, by degrees, she
ventured so far, in her eagerness for proselytes,
as to say a few words of flattering confidence,
which, from a lady of her age and position,
seemed like the condescension of a personal
confidence to the eager girl, anxious to know,
to see, to hear, to live a larger life, to realise

198 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

a wider existence than seemed ever likely to
be her own lot.

Tales of lovers torn asunder, and of husbands
and wives separated for life ; of the
faithful courage of tender women setting out
secretly, and on foot, to traverse hundreds of
verses in the hope of being allowed to share
their dear ones' labours or to soften the hardships
of exile ; stories of nobly born, delicately
nurtured women suffering the indignity, the
degradation, of the whip and the chain ; their
property confiscated, their children torn from
them, on the mere suspicion of some political
offence, as represented by a paid spy, or base
informer, whose secret malignity might count
at once on immunity, and on the reward of
blood-money, knowing that his victim was betrayed
to exile or to death.

To the Nihilist, as to the Jesuit, no one is
insignificant, nothing is paltry. The meanest
man may be made the instrument of the
mightiest tragedy ; the weak hands of women,
from Biblical days downwards, have in the
history of all times, and of all peoples, executed
the work of the Avenger.

England, as a free country, is the ultimate
refuge of political malcontents of every

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 199

nationality; and it was well, Madame de
Kerezoff argued, to strengthen the English
connection.

As a visitor in quiet, respectable English
houses, either in town amongst the wealthy
middle classes, or amidst the landed gentry,
clergy, and small proprietors, a foreign lady, if
her own particular, or the general interests of
the Cause ' suggested temporary expatriation,
might pass many months untrammeled and
unsuspected.

Then, too, there was the question of English
money ! Although no public appeal could
be made, as in the case of plague, pestilence,
and famine, for funds to meet the needs and
necessities of the party of progress in Russia,
yet much might be done in a quiet way ;
and Julie's feminine intuitions catalogued the
Hudsonss and the Gifford as wealthy, simple
folk ; whilst Fitz and the Owens were at any
rate comfortably off, and probably had many
wealthy friends.

So scanty were the means at the disposal
of the Nihilist party, that the very house in
which the mine was being bored on occasion of
the ' Moscow attempt ' had to be mortgaged.
According to custom, a survey was made by

200 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

an expert, in presence of the Stanovie (town-police),
and this at a time when the mine was
nearly finished ! ' The three " Railway attempts"
all organised f 0?* the same month of November,
cost, in allS says a Nihilist writer, ' but the pitiful
sum of from 3,000/. to 4,000/!'

Vera Zasulitch, as Julie explained, had no
personal end to compass, no private spite to
gratify. She risked the death she deemed it
her duty to deal ; and, when she levelled her
pistol at General TrepofF, she knew that in
aiming at the Governor of St. Petersburg, she
put the possible halter about her own neck,
whilst she recorded an act of typical vengeance.


In the same way, in the ' Hermann attempts
six or seven men, influential and capable
members of the * Circle,' were set aside in favour
of a woman, to whom the delicate duty of
waiting for the arrival of the Imperial train
was assigned. She was to give the signal for
the explosion at the exact moment ; and to
her, also, was entrusted the duty of firing the
deposit of nitro-glycerine, concealed on the
premises, in the event of the police coming to
arrest the conspirators. Everything and everybody
would be blown into the air, and Ruin

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 201

and Death baffle investigation. Yet no one
suggested that she would falter in her purpose !

In a few rapid words Julie sketched the
history of men like Herzen and Bakounine,
tracked by the police from country to country,
hunted and hounded for no crime  unless it bea
crime to hold independent opinion, she said 
from land to land ; 10,000 silver roubles the
price of Bakounine's head ; his arrival in Paris,
his escape to Germany, his hiding at Leipzig,
his lectures at Dresden, his capture at Chemnitz,
and his condemnation by Saxon court-martial ;
the death-sentence finally commuted to perpetual
imprisonment.

She told how he was handed over by the
Saxon Government to the Czar Nicholas and
sent to St. Petersburg, and there imprisoned in
the impregnable fortress of SS. Peter and Paul ;
thence transferred to Schlusselberg, on account
of the war, and finally exiled to Siberia. Here
he met Julie de KerezofFs sister [whose story was
only discreetly alluded to en passant] ; obtained
leave to join a convict colonist settlement on
the river Moor, and succeeded in getting onboard
an American ship bound for Japan and
North America. In 1861 he was in London.
Ten years later, in the summer of 1872, he

202 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

died suddenly, two years after Herzen, whose
Bell had sounded the tocsin of liberty throughout
Russia, and like him was canonised by his
followers and disciples as one of the ' fathers '
of ' Nihilistic idea,'

It was a girl of nineteen, said Madame de
Kerezoff, who, with a pistol, killed a Nihilist
suspected of treachery to his order. When the
students rose en masse at Kiev, it was again a
young girl who led the demonstration. The
emeute at St. Petersburg, in the open space
before the Kasan church, was headed by two
female students, and everywhere the women of
Russia had shown that they were swift to avail
themselves of the confidence, opportunities,
and possibilities of action, conceded to them
by their male associates.

In what other country,' she asked, ' do we
find educated women leading the vanguard
of freedom and liberty ? '

It would almost seem as though that intoxication
of delight with which the Eussians
welcome the return of summer, found a parallel
in the practical side of their paradoxical
character. The warm blood of the Italians
never moved Italian women to join in the
work of reorganising political and social life.

i THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 203

or in re-conquering the liberties of a united
Italy. It was true that with more than Spartan
heroism, mothers had devoted their sons to the
4 good Cause,' and that many an Italian matron
could count her brave boys dead on the field,
or shot down in horrible carnage and massacre
behind walls, in streets and alleys, by the half-dozen.
But there the daughters of the south
stopped ; here they drew the line. Men must
fight and women must weep. The rest must
take care of itself. There was no use to worry
6 ideas.'

In Russia, as we have already seen, the
latter-day propaganda is not alone confined to
the Vera Zasulitchs, the Perovskaias, or the
Jessie Helfmanns of the social system.

Nihilism has its recruits amongst the very
highest in the land.

It is equally at home in the ball-room
and the boudoir ; in the courtiers of the
Emperor's anteroom, and amongst the ladies
of the Empress's bedchamber. The Imperial
Guard is tainted with it, the personal suites of
the members of the reigning family, the pages,
ushers, and chamberlains of the palaces, are its
instruments and its tools.

Even Herzen himself, the founder of the

204 A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

Bell (Kolokol), was noble on the father's side,
being the illegitimate son of a Eussian aristocrat
and a German mother, Louise Hang ; of
his uncles, one was a lieutenant-general and a
senator, the other ambassador during the Napoleonic
era at the court of King Jerome. Ogareff,
his chosen ally and companion, a dandy and a
fop, was also of noble birth and of ancient family,
two things not always synonymous in Russia.
Prince Peter Dolorous, his associate, in common
with the rest of his family, boasts, as is
well known, descent from Eurik the Varangian,
the favourite hero of Eussian history. The
house of which Ivan Glowing was a cadet was
of ancient nobility, inscribed five hundred
years ago in the red book of Eussian nobles as
of long descent. Prince Alexander Woronzoff,
the defender of Nelschageff and other Nihilists,
was a cousin of the Chancellor of the Empire ;
and belonging to the same group, was the son
of the late adjutant-general Eostozoff, who, as a
correspondent of Herzen's Kolokol, was imprisoned
in 1862, and condemned to a long
period of seclusion. Bakounine, extreme and
even extravagant as his opinions were, made
his debut in life as a cavalry dandy, the descent

THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 205

cant of wealthy landed proprietors of ancient
Boyar family.

Documents of a compromising character
were found amongst the belongings of the
Countess Paine, a lady of the bedchamber,
whose pedigree stands high in the Eussian
peerage, when the plot to blow up the Winter
Palace was discovered. Eumour has more than
once connected a cadet of the great house of
Galitzin with Nihilistic intrigue ; whilst the
naval service and the Admiralty have been fully
equalled, if not outstripped, in treachery by
members of the War Office. The Krapotkines
come of a proud stock, and a curious contrast
is afforded in the family annals as exemplified
in the persons of the Nihilist Prince Krapot-
kine, now in a French prison, who it was
said was at one time driving a cab in St.
Petersburg, and his kinsman, the ill-starred
Prince Krapotkine, Governor of Charkoff, who
died at his post, shot by a Nihilist in 1879.

The traditions of revolt connect too many
great Eussian names with revolution, if not
with Nihilism, for the impartial chronicler to
ignore the fact. The conspiracy of 1825, which
resulted in the death of the poet Eylieff and
his friend Bestucheff, numbered members of

206 A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

many historic houses in its ranks. The ,
who had opposed Michael BomanofFs
accession to the throne when the old line
of the Czars came to an end, knew that the
army was wholly with Prince Dimitri, their
candidate for Imperial honours ; but the Church
was against him, and he was lucky enough to
be defeated in his ambitious projects. His
fellow-conspirators, Prince Odoievski, a cornet of
cavalry, and Prince Repine Eostofski, a captain
in the Moscow regiment, came of the ancient
stock of Eurik, and frankly looked down on
the BomanofFs, as a sort of parvenus. Prince
Obolenski, who was with them, was also of an
old and distinguished Russian family, as were
many others implicated in the plot. Prince
Sergius Troubetskoi, who, in virtue of a great
name, rather than for his own personal qualities,
had been nominated the insurgent Dictator,
crawled abjectly, on discovery of the conspiracy,
from his hiding-place to Nicholas's knees, and
there, cringing, craved for the pardon which he
confessed his act of lese-majeste did not entitle
him to expect. The Emperor, it is said, looking
down from the height and pride of Cassardom
at the worm writhing on the floor at his feet,
replied with dignity : ' It is granted. If you

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 207

Lave the courage to support a dishonoured life,
it is yours.' Death would, as it turned out, have
been more merciful. He was carried hurriedly
and secretly to Siberia, and the treatment which
not only he, but his faithful and devoted wife,
underwent, in that grim land of exile and dumb
torture, are amongst the annals that cast a dark
shade on Czar Nicholas's fame, and serve to
keep alive, alike the touching traditions of
woman's devotion, and the terrible tale of
cruelties whose very name is a byword and a
reproach amongst the nations.

No wonder if, to a young and ardent imagination,
the picture of a great city, outwardly
silent and as though profoundly at peace with
itself, on the surface monotonous to expression,
beneath the seemingly dead level undermined
to its uttermost limits, presents a strange and
overpowering attraction. Fast bound in ' chains
of misery and iron,' as aspiration might seem
to be, dormant or dead as the spirit of liberty
might appear, a nearer scrutiny could not but
convince the candid inquirer that rebellion
was neither dead nor even sleeping. As the
ice-bound river, rapidly flowing beneath its
mirrored calm, will, at the appointed season,
break loose from the restraints which for the

2 o8 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

time hush into silence, and seem to stem the
force of the flood, so the restless spirit, quelled
for the moment, or stilled for a season, wih%
when the hour has struck, break the bonds
that hemmed it in, and, rushing through self-sought
channels, force its way to the level
which Destiny has assigned, overpowering every
obstacle in its resistless and headlong course.

In all the world, as her instructors showed
to Bianca, there is no such spirit of Progress 
paradoxical as the assertion may seem  as in
retrograde Russia. In what other country
has the passion for liberty levelled all distinctions
of class and creed, and inspired delicately-nurtured
women to forget the softness and
ease of life in order to preach a propaganda
fraught with daily and hourly peril to its
instruments ? Where else in Europe can you
find noble ladies willing to risk honour, reputation,
love, life itself to the vast End in view ?

In France, the elite of revolutionary women
may be counted on the fingers of one's right
hand; in Italy, the women, as befits the descendants
of the matrons of ancient Eome,
have bound the shield and buckler on their
men, clasped the helmet, polished the spear,
and bade their sons go forth, and worthily win

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 209

the spurs their fathers already wear in their
country's cause. But they have not clamoured
for social reforms, given themselves over to the
study of anxious problems, learned ' To scorn
delights and live laborious days,' in college,
lecture room, or dissecting theatre ; nor painfully
applied themselves to the hand-to-hand
struggle of the few against the many. The
noble hope of ultimately seeing the misery and
degradation that crush millions of their fellow-countrymen,
resolved into a fair measure of
enlightened liberty, has animated the women of
Russia to agitate for such measures of reform
as shall entitle their country to claim her place
amongst the civilised nations of the Western
World.

The programme of such a propaganda, so
proclaimed as to bring all its more elevated
aspirations to the front, so as to hide all blots
or deformities of detail, seems little less than
sublime in its self-abnegation, its generous spirit,
its tender sympathies. Elastic enough to stretch
in every direction, this latter-day gospel maybe
so taught as to include within its ranks the
orthodox believer and the philosophic propagandist
; him to whom all creeds are equally
good and equally bad, and him to whom there

vol. 11. p

210 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

is no salvation beyond the pale of his own
creed. The bigoted Countess Perowsky, with
her orphanages and asylums, her convents
and penitentiaries, her strict religious observances
and unquestioning obediences to clerical
rule" ; the generous, enlightened, and gentle
Esther Eoclostamos, daughter of an oppressed
and despised race, with which she had identified
herself by choice, not of necessity ; Julie de
Kerezoff, the unimaginative, positive, practical
woman of the world, despising sentiment, and
yet sacrificing her whole life to the pursuit of
one absorbing chimera, fearless, steadfast, and
undaunted ; and Bianca, with her warm Italian
blood, her thirst for excitement, in contrast to
the necessarily-restricted routine which she, in
her contempt for the mere personal aspect of
life, abhorred  all these, and endless other
women of varying types, from the vestal to the
Magdalen, from the enthusiast, who seeks the
amelioration of ' Humanity,' to the she-tigress
crouching in ambush ready to spring out when
fate shall bring her victim that way, and grant
the longed-for moment of supreme revenge 
all these find place, occupation, and satisfaction
in the Nihilist cause

Means, profession, family, occupation, life,

THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 21 r

all must be laid on the altar of devotion. No
man dare hold a wife so dear, but that he
deliberately, and without hesitation, obeys the
order which will make her a widow tomorrow.
If it be demanded of him, he must kiss her on
the lips, smile in her eyes, go out and die ' and
make no sign.' No woman may let the strong
and tender love that binds her to her husband
weigh so much as a feather-weight in the
balance, if it be deemed that in leaving him she
can (be it but never so faintly) help forward
the common Cause to which she is sworn. An
aged father must not plead with his young
daughter (her hand being already laid to the
plough) to turn back ; the tears and prayers of
a sick or dying mother may not avail, if, by
prevailing, they retard the performance of a
duty which must count w T with her son, before
every personal consideration. Brother and sister
must be as strangers, unless the natural relationship
be endorsed by a fraternity of which they
perhaps alone shall know. And the 'familiar
friend,' of whom sweet counsel may often have
been taken, shall count no more than the
merest stranger, should loyalty to the oaths that
bind, exact a renunciation of the old afFectionate
bond.

r 2

212 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Since the days of the early Christians no
such all-embracing, voluntary self-sacrifice (or
so the skilful propagandists teach the timid
and doubting soul) has ever united a ,
heterogeneous band of
men and women, in the common bonds of
heroism and martyrdom. If it be objected
that many members, or some at least, fall far
below the standard implied in these exalted
doctrines, the answer, mildly reproachful, recalls
a passage in The Book, pointing out that
not every part of the body is equally honourable
; that some members are made to honour,
and some to dishonour. They, in whom supervision
and direction are vested, will use their
instruments, it is believed, according to their
lights.

The services which a noble lady, gifted withall
graces of body and mind, may fitly perform,
cannot be entrusted to the poor moujik, ignorant,
ill-clothed, ill-fed. But  it is pointed out
amongst his fellows, the sordid facts of his
obscure existence specially qualify him for the
work that is set him to do. You are reminded
of the Magdalen, afterwards favoured amongst
saints, the companion of publicans and sinners,
of idlers and spendthrifts ; and from the narra-the

OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 213

time you delight to honour, the most familiar
formulas are made to do duty, for the propaganda
your preacher propounds.

Communities of men, and communities of
women, have in divers times and after divers
manners, suffered all things for conscience' sake ;
but such communities are of their very nature
essentially narrow in scope, and exceptional in
practice. Here, on the contrary, you have no
chosen few self-elected ; you have a vast multitude
of human beings of different races, creeds,
and complexions, princes and peasants, peers
and paupers (each one useful after his kind and
degree), bound together in one universal brotherhood
of unspoken aspirations and silent vows.

Even at their secret meetings the individuality
of the brethren remains unrevealed.
Men and women with their forms shrouded in
shapeless domino-like cloaks, their faces hidden
behind misleading masks, nothing but the voice
or the ' speech ' can possibly \ bewray ' them.
Like the Eoman Scone, your neighbour is possibly
the son of some princely house, probably
himself the Head of. that House ; and, all unknown
to him, his heir sits cheek by jowl beside
him. The brilliant eyes that flash through the
narrow slits in the mask of the lady opposite,

214 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

remind him of eyes he has seen elsewhere,
although he cannot recall the locality or occasion.
It is his married daughter, who believes
that it would break her father's heart, could he
guess to what lengths her emancipated opinions
have brought her. Of those seated round that
mysterious table, there are many whose relationships
are close and intimate ; many who
believe that their nearest and dearest have no
thought apart from them. Yet, by a strange
irony of fate, the drama where each has his
exits and his entrances, now being silently
played out before their eyes, will result in a
tragedy that shall include a terrible surprise.

To Bakounine, whose gigantic figure, lit by
the lurid light of storm-clouds, conflagrations,
the fire and flame that his eloquence was
wont to kindle in its destructive energy,
Nihilism meant c negation ; ' the denial of religion,
virtue, God. He denied the rights of
inheritance, the rights of property, the social
contract in its more extended sense. He
confessed himself Atheist ; he proclaimed the
abolition of creeds, of marriage, and of the
priesthood ; he asserted the equality of the
sexes, the liberty of the individual ; he preached
the death, not only of despots, but also of

'THE OLD ORDER PASSE TH AWAY: 215

popular sovereigns and constitutional monarchs.
A Muscovite of Tartar name, he had served in
the Imperial army, but, involved in some mysterious
plot, in which Herzen was his companion,
he was captured, and carried in a tarantass across
the Rural chain to his prison in the Siberian
mines. It was said that the dungeon had closed
on him for life, and that rescue was impossible.
He was next seen in Paris. In Germany he
obtained such power that the mere mention of
his name in Saxony, was received in certain
classes with ' tumult of acclaim.' In a spirit of
derision he accepted the title of Roi de Saxe.
At Bale, at Zurich, at Lausanne, at Berne, where
was played out the last scene of the ' strange
eventful history ' of his erratic life, his was a
familiar figure, and a voice ever ' potent in
parliament.' He escaped, via Japan to America,
where he resided for a time, and thus acquired
the rights of an American citizen ; the extreme
men of France and Italy had declared him their
delegate at the International Congress : he represented
Russia by birth ; Imperialism by his
early career ; the weavers of Lyons and the
lazzaroni of Naples were his constituents ; he
shared the sovereignty of Saxony with the
legitimate ruler, and was, in fine, ' A man so

2 i6 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

various, that he seemed to be, Not one, but all
mankind's epitome.'

Bakounine was the pontifex maximus of
the extreme Radical party, of the Intransigents,
the Terrorists, the Jacobins. He it was, who
first proclaimed himself a Slav of Slavs ; his cry
was ' Russia for the Eussians and the Eussians
for Russia.' He even went so far as to invite
Alexander II. to place himself at the head of
the Slav nations, of which, he said, Russia alone
had been able to preserve her nationality, and
whose mission he declared it to be to keep off
the Tartars to the East and the Germans to the
West. But it was reserved for M. Akasoff to
give colour, form, and consistency ; to popularise
Bakounine's dream of a federative Slav
empire, with Russia at its head, and the Slaves
cry of ' All for Russia and by Russia ! '

But Alexander Herzen, whose Bell ()
became a power in the State that none
could venture to ignore or deny, so far in the
course of years modified his primal programme
that he declined to go the whole length of
Bakounine's later extravagances. Although he
endorsed the doctrines of negation and annihilation
 ' we do not build, we demolish ; we do
not announce new revelations, we sweep away

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY? 217

old systems of lies ; we do not construct, we
destroy '  yet he included, amongst the readers
of the Kolokol (a copy of which was laid every
morning on the Czar's breakfast table, though
no one could say how it got there), too many
humane, enlightened, and liberal men to insist
on the bloodthirsty doctrines of his associate
Bakounine. With both of them Mellin had,
through a long course of years, been on terms
of close personal intimacy. He had seen
Bakounine, after his escape from Siberia, at
Lausanne, and no one recognised in the German
journeyman Treib, the Baron Mellin, who by
Imperial permission received a passport for
Homburg, whither he went for his health's sake
to drink the waters. In London he had seen
Herzen, though less frequently. Here he bore
his own name, and it was his own ambassador
who introduced him into ' Society,' and with
whom he judged it prudent to be chiefly seen.
Nevertheless, under ' the great Catholic dome
of Bloomsbury,' many pregnant words passed
between the men whose life was spent in the
pursuit of one object, and who here met on
neutral ground. And no one could be surprised
that Baron Mellin should choose to visit, and
revisit, our great national library, designated

.2i8 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

by the guide-book as one of the sights of
London.

Deutsch and Blind, Mazzini and Bakounine,
Kirkland Freiligrath, Louis Blanc, Arrivabene,
Gavazzi, Galled, and many an European
student whose name is foreign to these pages,
but familiar to the late Antonio Panizzi, Italian
patriot and British librarian, looked up in silent
recognition as one or other of the leaders of
8 the Cause,' passed by the desk where Herzen
sat at work, endeavouring to beguile adverse
fortune and the hours of exile in study.

It was on the occasion of this visit to London
that Mellin had seen and conceived a romantic,
semi Platonic, semi-sentimental attachment to
Hero Martello, years afterwards to be recognised
not without emotion by him at
Sprudelheim.

But the maimer of his life had made love
as understood by other men, a thing of mere
hearsay and report. Larger interests, more
impersonal aspirations had filled out his strange,
varied, yet monotonous existence. The excitement,
for him, lay in the consciousness of
the. mighty power which, silently gathering
fresh forces to itself, was hourly extending its
field of action, widening its sympathies, and

'THE OLD ORDER PASSETH AWAY: 219

welding the more diverse elements into concrete
shape.

Dreamy, cold, self-contained, abstracted, a,
political visionary, a silent seer and impassive
prophet, Mellin had the patience, the faith,
and the courage of his convictions. So
reasonable a man would be safe to prove
utterly unreasonable, should his star desert
him. Love, banished sternly, as an effeminate
frivolity, unworthy of the high spirit of devotion
which he proudly felt beating in his every
heart-throb, would be sure, if ever it found him
out, to make reprisals excessive alike in kind
and in degree.

To him it had seemed enough, that now
and again, some beautiful vision, the remembrance
of high and pure loveliness, should
illumine his solitude, and remind him that
worth and beauty were a possible combination.
Then he would turn to his work again, patient,
faithful, loyal, content to spend and be spent
in the service, as he believed, of his country
and his kind.

All these circumstances, and many others
not here recorded, inspired Bianca with a
feeling of intense, if suppressed excitement asunder
charge of the Karishkins' agent, she

220 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

stepped into the kibitka which was to take
her on the first stage of her journey towards
St. Petersburg. Her romantic attachment for
Mellin  to whom, could she but have known
it, she was as a grain of sand on the sea-shore,
(unless some faint sense of irritation at her
likeness and unlikeness to her mother might
count for something less than indifference) 
buoyed her up with a strange hopefulness. As
yet, she was so far blind to her own feelings
that she did not stay to account for them ; or
if, now and again, the excitement and anticipation
beating at her heart were a little more
than she could bear patiently, and make no
sign, she told herself that triumph at her escape
from the trammels that had once held her
in subjection, devotion to ' the Cause,' gratitude
towards the friends who had reposed such,
generous confidence in her, and the pride born
of her own conscious integrity and courage,
were sufficient to account for the stir and
tumult of her breast. On the occasion of her
first arrival in St. Petersburg, Mellin had been
absent. No one knew, or if they knew, no one
said, where he was ; and she had felt that it
would be indiscreet to ask. Julie, who was
probably thinking of everybody and everything

'THE OLD ORDER PASSE TH AWAY: 221

in the world rather than Mellin, never so
much as mentioned his name. Indeed, when
Bianca, after making her farewell preparation
to accompany the Karishkins to the Crimea,
ventured timidly to say, ' Eemember me, when
you see him, to Baron Mellin,' Julie had stared
at her absently, as though Mellin were at the
antipodes, and answered mechanically : c Oh,
yes ! I will when I see him, of course.'

But now, with the whole winter before her,
months of friendly perhaps even of familiar
and unrestricted intercourse, a deeper initiation
into the secrets of that vast organisation which
was to shake the old order of things to its
very centre, might, not unreasonably, be supposed
to await her.

To a very young girl of Bianca's temperament,
the thing, almost inevitably serves as a plea for
the person. It was Mellin, an idealised impossible
and utterly untrue-tom nature Mellin,
that she worshipped in her adherence to ' the
Cause,' of which he was the representative.
And yet it would be unjust to imagine that
she could dissever the two, or consciously be
loyal to the one at the expense of the other.

Her priest was her religion, and her religion
was her priest, To youth all things are

222 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

possible. For Bianca, it would have seemed
enough, were she allowed to sit at the feet of
her elected Gamaliel, be honoured with his
commands and fulfil his behests.

It is, nine times out of ten, the name of a
thing rather than the thing itself which alarms
our prejudices or shakes our resolutions. It is
possible that if the girl had been originally
requested, in so many words, to listen to
the doctrines of Nihilism, of annihilation,
negation, aud nothingness, she would have
started aside, like a broken bow. But the
enthusiasm of Humanity,' the sophistries of a
softer Socialism, the vagaries of a modified
Communism  which teaches, plausibly enough,
that all we are, and all we have, should be
spent for the good of others, rather than in the
gratification of deified Self  the high and lofty
ideal which loses sight of the individual, in
generous ardour for the general good, and,
despite disaster and death, clings to a belief
in the ultimate ' serene result of all ; ' thes e
were the tenets her instructors emphasised.
The very words of the Testament learned
at her mother's knee were skilfully applied,
while philosophic freedom and dogmatic
doctrine, mixed together with aptitude and

'THE OLD ORDER

discrimination, served to keep her ardent
nature at the unquestioning high level of implicit
confidence and unwavering faith.

As the green copper domes and gilded
crosses of St. Petersburg met her eager gaze,
she felt that now, at last, the proverbial
bivalve was opening before her.

224 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Chapter XXVII.

IVAN AND CHELANSKA.

4 Put down the book, child, and rest awhile ;
you must be tired.'

It was the Countess Helena Perowska who
spoke.

Bianca obeyed.

The story was one of absorbing interest, full
of historical characters, disguised so thinly that
to anyone acquainted with the annals of St.
Petersburg there could be little, if any, difficulty
in raising the veil.

One wants breathing space,' continued the
Countess ; ' such a picture of the condition of
Society chokes me. Better the wild Tartar
hordes, which a parvenu upstart declared man
could reveal at will, by scratching the Euss,
than this miserable veneer of doubtful French
polish, this insupportable travesty of western
morals and manners ; ' and, as she spoke, the

IVAN AND CHELANSKA. 225

Countess rose from the low lounge upon which
she had been reposing, and began to walk to
and fro with restless energy, after the fashion
of some caged animal, made uneasy by the
presage of the coming storm.

Bianca's gaze followed her new protectress.

Although no longer in her first youth,
Helena Perowska was still beautiful as a poet's
ideal. Her small, well-shaped head, round
rather than oval, was so delicate in contour
that no one could regret its lines did not follow
the classic rule. An impression of youthfulness,
not to say childishness, was conveyed by
this very roundness of outline, as far removed
from ' fat ' as is the face of a perfectly beautiful
child. Her neck was long and slender, suggestive
of ' race,' delicacy, and pride. Her hair, of
the colour of ripened wheat, parted on the
forehead, and brushed away behind her tiny,
shell-like ears in rippling yellow waves,
terminated in a knot, at the nape of her neck,
which shone like burnished gold. Her beautiful
forehead, smooth as marble, serene as that
of a sculptured goddess, was innocent of puffs
and frizzing, profaned by the abomination of
the 'fringe.' Her eyebrows, level, well marked,
and of a chestnut brown, surmounted eyes that,

VOL. II. Q

226 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

by the peculiarity of their shape and colour,
betrayed her nationality. Long, well cut, and
slightly oblique as to setting, they were of the
clearest and yet interest blue, fringed 'by lashes
as black as night. Swift, subtle, shy, shifting,
a ' sudden side-glance and look-clown ' might 
but for a nobility of demeanour which gave the
lie direct to the mere suspicion  have seemed
to denote a treacherous nature ; one had only
to look at the lips, full, rich, and breaking
into curved smiles of radiant beauty and tenderness,
to recognise the base injustice of the
surmise. ' More than common tall.' with a
nobly-modelled bust, and hands and arms which
many a sculptor had endeavoured to immortalise,
Helena's complexion was as brilliantly
fair, smooth, and even as that of an infant.
She despised all so-called ' arts of the toilette
for her glass told her that Nature had achieved
a masterpiece, and that to attempt to improve
it would be to profane the Creator's handiwork.
Her dress was black, slightly opened
at the throat, and a large bunch of pale violets
nestled in the lace about her neck, whilst a
second bouquet of the same was held in place
at the waist by a silver girdle of antique Russian
repousse work. On her right hand she wore

/VAX And CHELAXSKA.



three hoop rings, diamonds, emeralds, and
rubies ; on her left, a marquise enamel, of the
Empress Helena, her patron saint, supposed to
contain a piece of the true cross, set in brilliant
of rare water. Magnificent single stones
sparkled in the lobes of her small ears like
prismatic stars.

Is it not sad, ' she continues, as she
pursues her walk, ' that we cannot put the
history of our country into the hands of our
youth, or, at any rate, into those of young
Eussian girls? The women of every other
country in Europe may read the history of
their own land with pride and satisfaction, or at
least without blushes of shame, and offended
modesty rising to their faces. But who could
wish to reveal to an innocent being the records
of tyranny and treachery, of coarse orgies and
shameless sin, that pollute every page of
Eussian history ? Even Peter, whom we call
the Great,' was so only by comparison : in his
private hours a drunken savage, with the
ruffianly manners of a boor, and no more idea of
conduct than an istvochik in his cups. What can
we say of our civilisation ? And how ridiculous
it is on our part to pretend to stand on one
platform with other nations, when we are

228 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

obliged to confess these facts ! Peter the Great,
who went to bed with his boots on, drank
and boxed with English ruffians, made every
European palace uninhabitable for years after
his occupation ; who murdered his son, flogged
the women he pretended to love, cheated
them of their money, and whose pleasure
it was, when illness kept him within doors,
to make wretched peasants, men and women,
drunk, then shoot them in sledges down
"montagne Busses" made for the purpose,
and had them beaten to death if they fell out
of the sledges in their descent ; who ordered
sledge races with the traineaux packed so close
together that they got entangled in the swiftness
of their career, and clapped his hands with
shouts of laughter at the sight of the poor
wretches with broken legs and arms being
carried away shrieking in agony to prison-hospitals.
And this, at a time when the pompadour,
the Ninon de l'Enclos, the Monte-spans,
and the Maintenon of the world, were
curious as to rare editions, collected pictures
and engravings, china and cabinets, and whose
very lackeys had more manners than this royal
ruffian ! '

And yet,' Bianca said, ' not only Peter, but

IVAN AND CHELANSKA. 229

Catherine, was called " Great. "  the " Semiramis
of the North," I have read somewhere.'

'Catherine, whom, as you say, we also
designate the " Great," was a modern Messalina.
Have you ever read the letters and memoirs of
the Margravine of Bayreuth, sister to little
Frederick the Grandiose, who reigned over the
province of Prussia, and set all Europe by the
ears? If so, you will know how she was
regarded, even by contemporaries, of her own
rank ; for the Empress Maria Theresa, who, we
must concede, was a truly great woman,
employs the same epithets as does the Margravine
in writing her opinion of Catherine to
Marie Antoinette. But no! Your mother would
take care that you should only learn as much
of these things as education demands, and
Society expects. Turn which page we will, my
dear, of Eussian life, at Court, in Society, it is
always the same unvarying story, repeated with
a thousand variations. If you want virtue you
must leave the Court, avoid Society, and seek it
in the hut of the peasant, on the lonely steppes,
in the lives of the sons and daughters of toil, in
the traditions and songs of the people ! '

Did you know the author of this book ? '
asked Bianca, holding up the volume of

2 3 o AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Tcheruichevski's from which she had been
reading aloud in a German edition, and which
formed the text for the Countess Perowsky's
remarks.

No ; but I know of him. His novels
made an epoch," as the Germans express it,
in the social history of Kussia. Girls saved
their pocket-money to buy them, and carried
them about secretly in their pockets ; young
men met daily to peruse and discuss their merits
and meaning. His heroines formed a new
standard of morality, and young women strove
to model themselves after his pattern.

'You speak, Madame, in the past tense, as
though he were dead ; what was the end of his
fame ? '

Ah ! you ask me a question to which there
is no answer. Who knows whether he is dead
or alive ? No one. At least, no one I have
ever asked has been able to give me any
positive answer. The end, so far as it is
known, was this : Persecuted for his opinions,
he was ordered to abstain from publishing for
the future ; his works were burned by the public
executioner in the open market-place ; he was
condemned to two years' fortress ; and, incredible
though it seems, at the end of those two years

IVAN AND CHELANSKA. 231

he was brought out of his prison and pilloried
in one of our chief public squares. The public
hangman read his sentence aloud as a warning
to the spectators ; he was taken thence to
Siberia, where he was to pass fourteen years
in hard labour at the mines, and undergo perpetual
exile should he outlive the term of his
penal servitude. A sword was then broken
over his head ; and from that hour to this
Tchernichevski has been dead to the world.
That is how Russia treats her men of genius ! '

It is incredible ! '

4 Yes, it is incredible, but it is true. Imagine
a French man of letters pilloried on the Place
de la Concorde, or an Englishman at Charing
Cross ! '

'That was done to Daniel Defoe, and for
his political opinions, too,' said Bianca, furbishing
up her little bit of schoolgirl history to show
that she was equal to the occasion.

k Yes, but when ? Not yesterday, last week,
last year,' replied the Countess, to whom the
name of Defoe was perfectly familiar, his
immortal ' Robinson ' being as popular in
every Continental country as it is in our own.
All the Youth of Russia rose to obtain
Tchernichevski's pardon ; but they only 

AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

posed themselves to danger, and obtained no
mitigation of his sentence. Last year I heard
that he was alive ; but who shall say ? Such
wonderful whispers are wafted to us across the
plains that spread distance between St. Petersburg
and the mines, that the air is literally
charged with a thousand mysterious echoes.
Doubtless, if only we had eyes to see  the eyes
of faith  we, like the shepherds of Bethlehem,
should discern hosts of heavenly visitants who,
speeding over land and sea at their Master's
bidding, are yet invisible, " because of the
hardness of our hearts," to our gross material
senses.'

She stood a moment rapt, visionary, and
lifted above the surroundings of the moment.
Were her thoughts at KatchalofF, with the pastor
projected like long evening shadows into
that far future which was to avenge the Egeria
of Semonow?

Bianca sat silent, afraid to disturb the
course of the lady's thoughts.

But suddenly she appeared to shake them
off, passing her hand swiftly across her dreamy
eyes, as though to dispel the vision visible
only to herself. 'What can one say?' she
cried bitterly ; ' it is always the same story.

IVAN AND CHELANSKA. 233

Tchernichevski yesterday, Tourguenieff tomorrow
! Pouschkin was only saved by
counterfeiting the renegade ; EyliefF expiated
his poetry and patriotism by death. It is a
long procession of political martyrs. A rising ;
a rebellion ; an example made of the more
signal offenders ; parties of twelve, sixteen,
twenty executed ; a dozen or two exiled ; more
condemned to perpetual penal servitude, and
the grim farce begins de novo, according to time
and circumstance. If you only stay with us
long enough you will see your own English
newspapers arrive with pictures and letterpress
torn out by order of the authorities. I
can show you numbers of your magazines
mutilated ; and some of my friends keep these
as curiosities, that later generations may realise
how far our so-called liberty of the Press really
went ! '

1 And the Czar  does he say nothing ? ' asked
Bianca, little dreaming of the dangerous ground
on which she is treading.

Ah ! the Czar  is the Czar ! You ask too
much, my good little girl. That very word
sounds ill in Imperial ears. Do you know 
but how should you ?  yet it is a fact that
foreign journals (I say nothing of our own)

234 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

have used the word with such ironical inflections,
with so much obloquy and opprobrium,
that it is an offence to pronounce it. Since
Peter the Great, who sought to Europeans us,
we have owned to no more Czars ; it wounds
our Emperor to hear himself so designated,
since it implies covertly the barbarism of the
Tartar, which the modern Eussian strenuously
denies. But you asked me what the Emperor
says to these things ? What he says does not
much matter, for the orthodox Eussian would
as soon question the decrees of Providence as
criticise his Emperor.'

6 An excellent and loyal formula ! May I
come in ? ' asked a voice at the door, upon the
threshold of which stood a groom of the chambers,
whose advent, in her eloquent preoccupation,
the Countess had not remarked.

For a moment the lady glanced uneasily at
the servant, then her face cleared. ' My good
Ivan, I did not hear you,' and looking past him
for the speaker in the anteroom, she advanced
with her hand outstretched in welcome.
'Enter, and all good spirits greet those who
cross my threshold in friendship,' she cried, in
her silvery, flute-like tones.

The words might have been a mere formula

IVAN AND CHELANSKA. 235

or a gracious inspiration of hospitality ; they
might mean more and other things than was
obvious, or they might be a customary mode
of address, for aught Bianca could tell. She
too had risen, and come a step or two nearer
the door.

Old Ivan, faithful as a dog is faithful, faithful
by instinct and by inheritance, had not
stolen a march upon them. Whatever he
might have overheard, it was as safe with
him as it would have been with a four-footed
friend. No police-spy would have risked his
reputation by an attempt to tap old Ivan.
Vodki never loosened his tongue, nor caused it
to wag idly on his employers' affairs. He
came from Semonow, whither the Countess
Helena had been taken for her honeymoon,
and whence she had disappeared to be
heard of again at Katchaloff. He had marshalled
all the serfs on the estate in procession
to receive the bridal pair ; he had had the
arrangement of the apartments, the superintendence
of the household, and he probably fully
understood the position of affairs when he saw
his young master leading a rough lonely life
in spite of his marriage. Only one thing the old

236 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

man could not understand. He, who had been
the faithful body-servant of the old Count, had
left holy Russia to follow him in his travels
over the godless continent of Europe, had
dandled the young Count in his arms, had no
conception of criticising his lord or his lady.
When Helena returned, and resumed her
position as mistress because she was his master's
wife, Ivan's mouth was closed, his mind satisfied,
his obedience to his lady, as implicit and
unquestioning as to his lord. She was there.
The past was nothing, the present everything.
It was no one's business to question or argue ;
it was the business of everyone to obey ; and
criticism amongst his fellows, was a thing not
for a moment to be tolerated. He silenced
it at once, and set an eloquent example of
duty by his dumb persistence in faithful service.
The Countess, used as she was to
obedience, had a spirit too finely touched to-delicate
issues, not to be fully aware of the
difference between eye-service and heart-service ;
and thus, aware that she had, on the present
occasion, been guilty of imprudence, and that
her tone had been too loud, as she looked at
Ivan a sense of security sent a sudden ray as of

IVAN AND CHELANSKA. 237

sunshine across her face, and the smile that
accompanied her few words seemed to the old
man like a benediction. He went out, and
along the corridor, crossing himself and invoking
blessings on the house, the family, and
their friends.

238  AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

Chapter XXVIII.

HIDDEN ENMITY.

It was Esther Eodostamos who thus gaily
asked permission to enter, and as she advanced
into the room, still talking, she did not at once
see Bianca. The early twilight, which had
long since fallen, had caused Bianca to lay her
book aside, and the modicum of day that still
struggled through the tall double windows
only served to show the more conspicuous
objects in the apartment. It was a question of
navigating the sofas and tables, steering clear of
couches and cabinets, to a cosy little settlement
near the stove. Tall spiral plants, immense
india-rubber trees, ferns and feathery vegetation,
stood out against the dim grey background,
in superb Oriental pots ; a small table
covered with work and gay-coloured silks occupied
the foreground ; a dwarf, revolving book-stand,
well filled with standard works, as
well as with the more ephemeral literature of

HIDDEN ENMITY.

39

the day, was within reach, whilst the scent of
flowers which filled the china bowls on the
tables seemed all the more powerful because
in the twilight the blossoms were invisible.
On the shelf of the white porcelain Berliner -
Often stood four rare antique silver candlesticks,
a silver incense burner, and an enamelled
bonbonniere, said to have been sent by Marie
Antoinette as an offering to the Empress
Catherine, and containing an exquisite likeness
of the ill-fated heroine of le petit Trianon, in
the costume of a Versailles milkmaid, by
Madame Vigee le Brun, whose long sojourn in
Russia had made her name familiar in St.
Petersburg ; whilst high above the architrave
of the door leading into the Countess's bedroom
hung the lamp illuminating the inevitable Ikon.
4 1 call this delightful,' Esther exclaimed
gaily, as she sat down and threw aside the
enormous pelisse, which she apologised for not
having left in the ante-room. ' The fact
is my impatience outstripped my discretion,
and I followed so fast on Ivan's heels that
there was no time to make antichambre.
There are days  I wonder whether it is so
with everybody  when I feel as though the
pied piper of Hamelin were scraping away at

240 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

his mad jig, and making my feet almost dance
out of their shoes. It is as though " the
tarantula had bitten me," and I am so afraid
of playing the part of an involuntary Herodias,
that I dare take no delight in my mirth. My
good, superstitious Fest, when I complain to
her of my inconvenient exuberance, shakes her
head, just as my old nurse used to do when I
was a child, when I was too merry betimes.
You will laugh on the wrong side of your
face before night," the old woman would say,
and I am bound to confess that I generally did.
I hope, Countess, you can imagine, even if you
have no experience of it in your own person,
something of the insensate spirit of folly I
describe, for unless sympathy pleads my
cause I can scarcely expect to be excused ; '
and as she spoke Esther lightly touched Helena
Perowska's hand, as though to deprecate her
judgment, and to bespeak indulgence for her
exuberant cheerfulness.

4 Indeed, you committed no indiscretion, and
so there is nothing to forgive ; if there were,
you are one of those, I fancy, who can know
nothing of forgiveness, for you never offend.
For the rest, it does one good to hear anyone
in these melancholy days of morbid retrospect

ENMITY. 241

tion, self-torture, self-analysis, freely, frankly,
unfeignedly gay. Personally, I have no experience
of that mercurial temper which you
describe. I fancy it is chiefly attributable to
constitutional temperament, like the rest of our
idiosyncrasies ; but even had it been mine, by
the inalienable right of inheritance, the circumstances
of my life have not been such as to develop
or preserve the jocund faculty. Indeed,
we were getting far too serious, and you came
most opportunely by the brightness of your
mood to dispel my owl-like gloom. Ah ! the
room is so dark ; you did not see that Mdlle.
Martello is with me. We have been reading
aloud ; and  somehow  the book depressed us,
and my harangue grew out of the suggested
circumstances. Martellina mia ! be so good as
to light those candles. I like to see friendly
faces ; and let us have some tea.'

The Countess, with easy tact, brought Bianca
into the conversation, knowing that her protegee
and Esther had met frequently before this
evening, and suspecting nothing of Bianca's
mood. Esther, in the friendliness of her feelings,
at once rose, and as Bianca crossed the
rug at her feet to light the candles, would have
shaken hands with the young English girl 

VOL. II. K

242 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

indeed, had half advanced her own, in concession
to British custom. But Bianca drew
back, made a slight yet ceremonious curtsey,
and passed on, returning in a moment with the
candlesticks in her hands. She placed them on
the work-table, and seemed about to withdraw,
when Ivan, followed by a younger servant,
brought in the cheerful samovar. A little
pause ensued in the conversation, during which
the servants arranged the tea equipage. Bordeaux,
and lemon in slices, instead of cream,
was served with the tea.

To Bianca, when they were alone, the
rare china and fine old silver, the samovar
hissing on its bed of glowing coals, the
bright, polished tray, the aromatic scent of the
4 Caravan tea,' the perfume of the freshly-cut
lemons, the cheering influence of the social
cup, made a delicate little festival that almost
supplied the place of a good blazing English
fire. The cheerless inhospitality of the cold
and apparently fireless porcelain stove, like a
huge monument transplanted from the nearest
cemetery, looming ghostlike and comfortless
through the darkness, was pleasantly modified
by this independent arrangement of the hissing
urn on its polished brazen basket ; and it

HIDDEN ENMITY. 243

had come to be her duty to dispense the tea, the
Countess enjoying the immunity from espionage
implied by the absence of the valetaille as
she chatted with her intimates. Esther, on the
young girl's haughty rejection of her proffered
hand, withdrew, and, blushing crimson, relapsed
once more into her corner of the couch.
She had, through circumstances, come to
be on terms of close friendship with the
beautiful Countess Perowsky ; they were both
indefatigable in their works of charity, and
a mutual attraction had ripened into esteem
something of a-warmer character than mere
personal admiration. When Julie de Kerezoff,
with some impatience, announced to her friend
that the eccentric young English girl whom
she had placed so advantageously with the
Princess Paul Karishkin was returned upon her
hands again, for no reason that she could
understand, other than an obstinate whim and
caprice of the young lady's own inception,
Esther Eodostamos had relieved the irritable,
anxious little woman by proposing that Bianca
should become a member of her own household.
' If you only knew how I hate writing,' she
said, holding up a pretty little ink-stained digit,
4 how I weary of, and rebel against, the enforced

R 2

244 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

hours of mechanical labour, you would understand
that I should value the services of your
young friend.'

Take a secretary trained to the business
replied the practical Julie, drily. 'You can
afford it.'

What ! and exercise dear old Fest's timid
soul with doubts and fears too intricate and too
acute to be borne ? No ; the " proprieties "
must be observed.'

She cannot write Eussian.'

'What matter? French and German
would, nine times out of ten, answer the
purpose. The work is just of a nature I could
not well employ a man to do  orphanages,
penitentiaries, foundling hospitals, refuges, reformatories,
and all for girls and women. Ah !
and so many other matters of business, where
it would be an advantage to have a person
ignorant of certain shibboleths.'

Stop,' said Julie, 'there you are mistaken.
One shibboleth  the one you mean  she
knows.'

Impossible ! '

True ! '

But how ? '

Ah, my dear ! the how, when, and where

HIDDEN ENMITY. 245

are not for now. Enough that she knows.
Otherwise I would not have sent her to
Princess Paul, nor should I trouble myself
about her now.'

But finally the Countess Perowsky persuaded
Esther to forego her prior claim, and
on reflection it seemed to her wiser not to
introduce an element of discord into her peaceful
household. Dear old Fraulein Fest's
feeling would be hurt if a younger than herself,
a more useful and companionable inmate,
should share all Esther's pursuits, and act as her
amanuensis and confidante. Thus the younger
lady ceded Bianca to her friend, and it struck
her forcibly to-night that she had done well in
arriving at that conclusion.

What possible reason could Mdlle. Martello
have for her act of rudeness ? In their
relative positions, the ill-breeding of a paid
dependant might have seemed a very insignificant
matter to many of Esther's station ;
but her sweet spontaneous nature was hurt by
the rebuff. She questioned herself severely as
to whether she had pained or offended Bianca
in any way, and the brightness of her spirit
was quenched in the annoyance she felt at
being obliged to suffer ignorantly for a fault of

246 A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

which, in intention at least, she was guiltless.


She turned to the Countess.

8 1 said this was delightful, and I think it
really is the best hour of the twenty-four.
After I have been busy all day, sitting in our
hot rooms, I feel such a sense of schoolgirl
liberty and freedom when I call for my fur,
get into the sledge, and am whirled over the
snow through the dusk to the bright houses of
my friends.'

What does Fraulein Fest say to the
proprieties ? '

8 Well, rheumatism, or the holy horror of
it, keeps her timely wise and most agreeably
silent. For one thing, my sledge is so small
and so peculiar that I fancy everybody knows
it ; for another, my shadow, my double, my
body-guard, never leaves me. Where I go
Eachel Hanska follows. If I send her away
she stands on the bar of the sledge at the
back, or crouches down so that I may not see
her, or crawls on to the transverse beam.
Fancy what a fashionable appearance my
equipage would make on the Perspectives !
Fortunately it is too dark for her vagaries to
be observed, or, if I discover them, I send for

HIDDEN ENMI7 Y. 247

a larger sleigh. It is good to be loved, though
but by a Polish peasant woman, and I have
not the heart to wound her by ordering her
away. In the daytime dear old Fest is always
with me ; and then " Chelanska" as I used to
call her when a child, is pacified.'

To-day had been one of those days when
Esther had especially felt the need of movement
and the refreshment of younger society
than she found in her own house. She had
with pleasure recognised Graham as an old
Eoman acquaintance, in whose studio she and
her father had spent many pleasant hours during
their last Italian winter. Graham had persuaded
the lovely young Greek to let him take her
portrait, and he had chosen for her the costume
and attitude of Iphigenia when, in compliance
with her father, she dedicates her life a willing
victim to propitiate the wrathful gods.

Styro Eodostamos, already ill, had left
Eome somewhat suddenly at last, fearing the
too great heat of an early summer, and Graham
had lost all sight, all knowledge of Esther,
until he met her again on that memorable day,
driving homewards at sunset through the
balmy spring evening from Peterhof.

Lord Dovedale had questioned Graham

248 AUJ CSAR AUT NIHIL.

eagerly as to his previous knowledge of Esther,
and hearing the history of the unaccomplished
portrait, had pressed him to look it out, and
beg the favour of renewed sittings.

At first Graham refused. He was too busy
presenting his credentials, and was too anxiously
awaiting the ' Open Sesame ' of men in authority
that should reveal the hidden art-treasures
of Moscow and St. Petersburg, to be willing to
attend to any private matters. But presently,
opportunity offering, the old friendship was
renewed, the old portrait discovered, and a
new study commenced. Lord Dovedale was
enchanted. He went from Esther's side to
Graham's canvas, from Graham to Fraulein
Fest ; he suggested, criticised, exclaimed, objected,
until Graham almost lost his temper,
and Esther got heartily sick of the whole affair,
and fervently repented ever having acquiesced
in the arrangement.

Deep down, a double-dyed plot, in the
innermost depths of Lord Dovedale's simple
soul, lay the daring design of securing, by hook
or by crook (though not even the most rudimentary
of these instruments of infallible
repute had as yet made itself familiar to his
exercised imagination), by threats, promises,

HIDDEN ENMITY. 249

entreaties, if not possession, at least the loan of
this enchanting canvas. With it he would fly
to England, and at the sight of so much, such
rare and radiant loveliness, the soul of his old
reprobate father would be softened, and he
would let the future Marquis of Matlock go to
fetch home the bride of his choice.

Two tidings were necessary to the realisation
of this bold design  the consent of the lady
herself, and Graham's willingness to part with
his chef d'ceuvre. As an artist  professionally,
as a man willing to take so much coin, in
exchange for so much painted canvas, Lord
Dovedale did not know Graham ; and friendship
having hitherto been the only bond
between them, he found it difficult to approach
him in the new character of the modern
Maecenas. But, as the enthusiastic lover told
himself, difficulty he had always known to be
there ; difficulty should only sharpen his wits
and his determination ; difficulty overcome
would sweeten the combat, and flavour the
result when the end should crown the work.

Of this design Esther had naturally no
suspicion. The serious illness of the Marquis
of Matlock had called his son to England.
Graham had been away, in the interior of the

2 go AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

country ; thus the picture had made but slow
progress, and sittings had still to be conceded.

Esther flattered herself that her positive
refusal to entertain Lord Dovedale's suit would
be effectual where her rejection of Lord George
Several had proved futile. There was no
pretty provoking proffer of sisterly regard or
sympathetic friendship on her part. He asked
her to be his wife and she declined. When he
asked Why, she refused to listen.

There is no " why," my lord, other than
because " ' she said, ' there can be no reason
why I, who rejected Lord George Several,
should love Lord Dovedale. Let us forget this
folly. My answer will always be the same ; or
rather I should say, " would be," for I trust
you will never mention the matter again.'

I will mention it when I think I am justified
in doing so, and I will not allow you to
call my love "folly." No one could know,
better than I, the difference between us.'

That I am a Jewess, you mean ? '

6 That was not what I meant, and you know
it was not. Neither is it strictly true. You
bear your father's name.'

'Yes, but my mother's blood is in my
veins.'

HIDDEN ENMITY. 251

4 Granted ; but you have not been educated
in that faith.'

4 Excuse me, my lord, it is not a question
of creed, but of race ; and the question of race
I hold to be, nine times out of ten, more serious
than that of creed.'

Then you would not have a Frenchman
marry an English woman, or vice versa ? '

That is different. Though I will go so far
as to say that I hope Frenchmen are not like
what their own novelists make them. Still,
Europeans have a certain family likeness.
When you come to Asia, Africa, and aboriginal
America, the question is a more serious one.'

You choose to make it so, for the perverse
pleasure of proving your postulate, which in
itself I do not admit.'

I am wrong to argue,  that I allow,'
Esther answered, dropping her tone of banter,
6 because argument presupposes a possibility of
conviction. Now I know that I do not love
you, and that I cannot love you, as the honest
woman should love the honest man who honours
her by choosing her out of all the world to be
his wife, and No, means No, with me.'

You shall not rob me of my hope.'

I am sorry to hear you say so, my lord.

252 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

When a woman tells a man honestly such a
painful truth as I have felt myself obliged to
tell you, she does not like to hear that her
candour and her sufferings have been in vain.
I may go further, and say that, attentions or
love forced upon an unwilling recipient, are
destructive of friendship, and tend to rouse
opposition and angry feelings, rather than to
encourage tender ones.'

I will never " force my attentions " upon
you, Esther.'

'And please not to call me Esther, Lord
Dovedale.'

8 1 call you Esther in my mind, always ; but
I will try not to offend verbally in that direction
again.'

And, invincibly good-natured, Lord Dove-dale,
withdrew. He told the story of his love
to Graham, who laughed at him.

Do you know that Esther Eodos tames is a
Jewess ? ' he asked.

4 And you, too, you brute,' said Lord
Dovedale, half angry, half laughing. ' I
thought travel, and modern culture, had dispelled
all these mouldy superstitions, and old-world
cobwebs from your unprejudiced brain.'

Granted. But there is the family tree of

HIDDEN ENMITY.



the Peverils to be considered. A Marchioness
of Matlock ought to display as proud a maiden-pedigree
as that of her future lord.'

1 1 won't answer that here, because I know
it to be banter. All I ask you is to look
round and tell me where in Europe the
prejudice, if it still exist, has not been broken
through again and again ? Look at Thistledown
' (a youthful peer who had been Lord
George Several's chum at Eton). ' Has he not
just married a Jewess ? Not only, as in Esther's
case, a woman with a Jewish mother, but a
Hebrew of the Hebrews, following the religion
of her fathers, and exacting that the knot should
be initially tied in the Synagogue, and secondarily
in the Established Church. And do
you suppose he will lose a single friend, or
forfeit a single honour, by reason of his
marriage ? Will not English " Society " flatter,
criticise, fawn, abuse, cringe, and consort with
the young pair, as convenience, self-interest,
mammon worship, rank-worship, selfishness,
curiosity, or kindliness may suggest ? '

What a cynic ! '

I am no cynic, unless common sense be
cynicism. The Rothschild are public property,
and one may speak of them without hesitation,

254 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

without the necessity of disguising their names
under a thin alias. Look at them, in all their
branches ; married to French Catholics, English
Protestants, Irish Ultramontanes, Italian Papists,
Greek Iconoclasts. There is scarcely a religion
or a sect into which this typical Jewish family
has not married.'

Because they are the Rothschild ! '

You mean because they are phenomenally,
abnormally, repulsively rich  because who says
Rothschild means millions ? '

I suppose that.'

6 Where is your argument if that be so ?
What a parvenu estimate ! what a snobbish,
contemptible standard ! You object to certain
people on account of their race and their
religion ; or of the one, or of the other : and
then, because certain individuals are wealthy,
not only is the pill of race and creed gilded, it
ceases to be a pill ; it becomes a sugar-plum ;
it is swallowed with complacency, rolled round
the palate with peptic pride, and all shuddering
and grimacing over the bolus disappear so soon
as poverty ceases to be an ingredient ! Give me
your good plain bigot, rather than such barefaced,
mercenary Mammon-worship as that ! '

The way of the world ! I acknowledge

HIDDEN ENMITY.



every word you say to be truth. We pretend
to hate and despise Jews, yet we are not too
proud to take Jewish money. We show a
cupidity far in excess of theirs, and sin in the
very particular which we score to them as a
crime. But, if you cannot get the lady's
consent, why trouble yourself as to what
possible cavillers might say ? No one, and I as
an artist speak confidently on this point, could
possibly connect Esther Eodostamos' personality
with the Hebrew race. She is of
the purest Greek type, and I believe on the
father's side of untainted Hellenic descent, not of
a mixed Levantine race. Her Quixotism alone
has betrayed the history of her birth (on the
mother's side), and I regard that, like so many
other youthful exaggerations, as a mere amiable
extravagance which time will cure.'

And yet I love her for it ; I even go sofar
as to say I would not have it otherwise.
She associates herself with a poor and despised
race, not because her name, face, or speech
bewray her, but of generous impulse ; because
there would be, she thinks, a tacit cowardice,
meanness, disloyalty in ignoring the fact of her
mother's people. This is the key-note to her
character. It is not only the obvious good

256 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

deeds that come in her way which she does ;
that would suffice to one of ordinary disposition,
but not to hers. And yet there is
nothing gloomy, or melancholy, or morbid in
her cultus for the sorrowful, sick, and needy.
A brighter, happier, if I may say so, wholesome,
soul never existed.'

4 And from that point of view none more
suited to you ; but there are other considerations,
as we have already agreed.'

None that could weigh with me but want
of love. And yet, her very frankness has
endeared her to me beyond expression. I
asked her to be my wife. The commonplace
young lady, if she had felt unable to comply,
would have proposed to be my sister. Esther
did nothing of the kind. She even told me
that my persistence would endanger our friendship
; that it exasperated and annoyed her.'

And you ?

It goes without saying, shall persevere*
If, when I was a poor younger son, an obscure
stupid fellow, pushed by influence into a
nominal position, and endured by Lord
Adamant for the sake of old " Mohawk " days
spent in my father's company, the dread that I
might be accused of trying to patch my poor

HIDDEN ENMITY. 257

fortunes with the heiress's money, could not
frighten me away from her, nothing shall do so
now. She is bright, beautiful, accomplished,
and exquisitely womanly ; her hand is stretched
out in help and sympathy to all who are in
need ; and, without professing any special dogma,
she has a pure and reverent soul, and thinks 
as I wish more of us thought  much of the
obligation and duties of the practical side of
Christianity. If I hope to marry her in the
end, it is because I have faith in sympathy,
begotten of honesty, truthfulness, love of one's
neighbour, and a not too elaborate self worship.'

Graham's society was specially pleasing to
Esther. Endless talks of the old Eoman days
beguiled the weariness of the c sittings.' It was
an understood thing that the lady of the house
should be ' at home ' to her intimates, and
that Graham must put up with many interruptions
if he persistently held to his original
plan. Only one point he reserved. He
stipulated that no one should see his canvas
until he voluntarily accorded permission.

Thus, when he had accomplished his daily
routine task in the matter of the Government
catalogues, it became a sort of accepted thing
that he should look in and inquire whether the

vol. 11. s

258 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

gracious lady ' were disposed to pose ? A
message would beg him to enter ; he would find
a coterie of friends and be drawn into the
vortex of social chat, to the utter oblivion of both
portrait and painting. Or he would get a quiet
sitting, such as he loved, with Fraulein Fest,
and her friendly knitting needles and nods in
the background, and Esther, in a quiet mood,
book in hand, ready to talk or be silent;
even sometimes, when the exigencies of the
portrait permitted it, to read aloud passages
that specially interested her. She was in herself,
apart from her rare and exquisite beauty,
a most fascinating study to Graham, and he
supplied the flint against which the steel of her
bright wit struck forth sparks of bewildering
brilliancy.

With her, all was spontaneous, joyous,
natural. The artificial grace, the gift of refined
repartee which many a beautiful woman learns
to cultivate, in a world where it behoves
those who would play a part unscathed, to
be armed de cap en pied, suffered by comparison
with the bright but harmless spirit, that
tipped Esther's conversational darts. No one felt
this more than the Countess Perowsky. ' I am
laboured, dull, and artificial,' she would say with

t HIDDEN ENMITY. 259

a sigh. ' If I please it is by an effort ; but you
seem to care no more than a fawn in the woods,
or an eaglet on the mountains, whether men
and women admire you or not.'

6 And yet  for their love  I care a great
deal ; and often wish I could be sure that the
interest I feel in them, others return. There
are special reasons in my case, you know, why
I should doubt.'

The Countess made no answer. Her mind
had wandered away from mere personal talk to
graver problems.

She had been distinctly ordered by the
recognised Head of their organisation to put
forth all her fascinations, if by that means she
might win a doubtful spirit to firm profession.
Her irregular beauty, noble figure, and brilliant
colouring were harmonised by singular softness
and womanliness of bearing. The feminine
essence formed an atmosphere round her which
none could enter unawares, or remain long unconscious
of having entered. Princess Paul
Karishkin might serve to represent the type of
the ' great lady '  kind, indolent, ignorant, and
well meaning. Esther's enthusiasm might repel
some and annoy others. She was so unconscious,
so absolutely and utterly and entirely

8 2

260 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

unoccupied with herself, that it was difficult
for her admirers to pay her a compliment
without feeling that they had wasted their
choice flowers of speech,

A person who talks of things, and of preference
avoids all personalities, whether flattering
or otherwise, is not always the easiest ' to
get on with.' But one like Helena Perowska,
at once a great lady and a woman of exceptional
gifts, endowed with tact and insight, what could
she not do ?

To her who has been the chosen Egeria
of a Caesar, all things are possible,' said her
Director. The tone of the world they both
lived in robbed the allusion of all offence.
There could be nothing but glory and fame,
certainly nothing resembling infamy, in the
suggested relationship.

And significant of that world was also the
fact that none of these women knew how far
her fellows were initiated into the mysteries
which formed the bond of their secret sisterhood.
A recognised divisional head they had, but he
was only one of a council of three, to whom
everything was finally referred ; so that, in the
last resort, a decree arrived at by the unanimous
consent of all members, and apparently ac-hidden

ENMITY. 261

accepted by the three, two of whom remained
unknown, might be reversed at the eleventh
hour, or put back upon the list for further
consideration if the triumvirate so willed.

Esther's enormous wealth and unfettered
condition made her a big prize. Her father
had stood well at Court, for financial reasons
already explained, and she had her right
of ingress and egress by special desire and
permission of certain members of the Imperial
family. She had been caught on the side
of philanthropy and humanity. All benevolent
measures, liberal reforms, enlightened
institutions, the amelioration of the condition
of the poor, universal education, sanitary measures,
and so on, found in her an enthusiastic
and substantial supporter. Of the cry for
destruction, of the text of negation, of the
darker and more terrible designs attributed to
a section of her brethren she knew nothing ;
and, truth to tell, she secretly rebelled against
the vexatious exactions of the Society, as, for
other reasons, did poor Sergius KerezofF, sick
at heart of the hard service exacted by his wife
in the name of the secret Brotherhood.

Graham and Lord Matlock were outside of
all this, and probably would, like true Englishman

AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

men, have treated any account of it with
ridicule.

Bianca, whose occupation as a possible
money-agent seemed for the moment gone,
began to feel the depressing effects of starved enthusiasm.
She was contented with her position
in many ways, and felt that the Countess was a
woman with whom it was impossible to associate
intimately and to remain unpledged. Of the
story of Helena's life, of the desertion of the
Czar, and the crumbling of that worthless
fabric whose base had been weakness, self,
feebleness of purpose, and instability of character,
she knew absolutely nothing. And it
may be doubted if Esther knew more. ' Nine
days,' in spite of variation of sunset and sunrise,
are as long, or as short, in Russia as elsewhere.
Helena had arisen from the dust and ashes of destruction
like some fair fabric, statelier, grander,
more perfect than before ; she ruled, the mistress
of a devoted household, the wife of a
respectful husband, the centre of an admiring
social circle ; and if beneath her suave and
gracious manner, her gentle calm, her winning
voice and ways, a sterner purpose lurked, who
could trouble himself to rake up old stories,
resuscitate old memories in order to give a

HIDDEN ENMITY. 263.

semblance of purpose to the transient tone,
the kindling glance which now and again
transformed the beautiful face into a momentary
likeness of the Medusa?

To Esther Eodostamos, it was for once a
positive relief when Lord Matlock and Mr.
Graham were announced. Bianca's hostile
attitude had fairly baffled and annoyed her ;
yet it w x as only when, a little later, Count
Perowsky entered, bringing Mellin with him,
that she fairly recovered her flow of spirits,
and entered fully into the pleasant rattle of the
moment.

Graham and Bianca had met frequently,
but seemed to prefer that the bond of compatriotism
should be ignored. An angry doubt,
dismissed almost as soon as recognised, had
flashed across the girl's mind. Had he been
sent to spy? But the theory would not hold
water. Graham was ostensibly the merest
acquaintance, and she knew her mother well
enough to be certain that reserve woidd render
all discussion of delicate personal matters with
a stranger impossible. Nevertheless, she determined
that he should know as little as
might be of herself, her thoughts and feelings,

264 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

so that, if he were tempted to report upon her,
the means should be wanting.

The Countess finding that they were acquaintances
as well as compatriots, invited
Graham to dinner, and placed him next Bianca.
Unfortunately, Bianca's determination to give
him no information made her as rude as a
fanciful suspicious girl of her age can be.

Lord Dovedale sat next the hostess, and
Count Perowsky had appropriated Esther, on
the other side of whom sat Mellin and Fraulein
Test.

A silence on her companion's part caused
Bianca to turn and look at him. His eyes were
fixed on Esther.

She is very beautiful said Bianca, following
his glance.

Graham coloured slightly; then answered
quietly : 

She is ; and as amiable and good as she is
lovely.'

The quid pro quo sent the colour flaming
into Bianca's pale cheeks.

So Baron Mellin seems to think,' she
replied, a fierce pang shooting through her sore
and rebellious heart. What torture can be
worse than jealousy ?

HIDDEN ENMITY. 265

Tn truth, Mellin was as indifferent to Esther
tis Graham was. But Bianca's distorted vision
saw everything by the light of foregone conclusions.
The jealousy that lay at the root of
the matter, and sharpened her pain, made even
the sound of her own words a relief to her
ruffled feelings.

Again and again she had heard Esther's
praises sung by Graham, by Lord Dovedale, by
the Countess, by all the idlers and triflers to
whom anyone and everyone is fair game. The
Countess declared that the heiress's admirers
name was Legion, and that they came to her for
consolation by the score. She was c not the
rose, but she lived near it.' Not a week ago
she alleged she had laughingly dismissed one
of the more seriously wounded of these ' melancholy
Jacques' ' with the admonition to talk less
and to try more, if forgetfulness of the hardhearted
beauty were his aim.

En pensant quail faut qu 'on oublie, on seen
souvient ! ' were her last words to the love-lorn
gentleman.

But to Bianca she had enlarged, after his
departure, on the text.

Even Mellin, who is fire-proof,' she said,
'is amongst the smitten, if not the slain; and

266 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

the beauty of it is, Esther suspects the truth no
more than she dreams of leading my Japanese
pug captive.'

As Mellin, attracted by that animal magnetism
which draws our eyes in the direction of
those fixed upon us, caught, across the fruit
and flowers, a glimpse of Bianca's troubled
young face, a vague instinct of repulsion and
annoyance passed over him, prophetic of trouble
and irritation to come ; of vexation, and worry,
and failure, in which Bianca was concerned,
and for which her mother might hold him
responsible.

Alas for poor Bianca ! Her mother sat
praying for her by the desolate hearth at home ;
desolate not so much by reason of her child's
absence as by the absence of love, the thankless
rebellion which had wilfully severed all ties,
and had presumed, in unfilial-wise, to question
and condemn the action of a devoted and
blameless mother. The separation, Hero told
herself, she could have borne, had love bridged
over cruel necessity. But Bianca's conduct
had been loveless and thankless, arbitrary, cold,
and cruel. She had made her exit without one
sign of softening ; and Hero's tender nature felt
at least as much wonder and horror at the

HIDDEN ENMITY. 267

perversity of her child's act, as indignation, and
wounded affection, and outraged maternity.
Could she have believed that the love was still
there, under eclipse, obscured, in abeyance, she
would have taken heart of grace and waited in
patience for light to shine. But the ruthless
impatience of the girl's desire for freedom had
stabbed Hero to the heart, had killed all faith
in her child in the mother's bosom.

It was well that she could not see ; little as
she believed Bianca cared, yet it was, still good
that she could not guess how little share the
absent mother had in this fondly loved child's
thoughts. Whatever else the girl thought of,
it was not of home.

Expectation, rebellion, and excitement had
buoyed her up on her outward journey ;
novelty, the hope of good things to come.
The winter in St. Petersburg she was determined
to have, and she had compassed her
ends ; and since she had been domiciled with
the Countess she had met Mellin continually,
if with but slight recognition on his part. The
confidences of Sprudelheim were not renewed
between them. Once or twice she had referred
to indifferent matters connected with that time.
He had barely answered, and she, imagining she

268 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

had displeased him, or that he had reasons at
the moment for reticence, let the subject drop.
As yet no one suspected her secret ; he least
of all. Yet a feeling of intense irritation came
over him as he met her eyes fixed with piercing
scrutiny on his face.

Far from divining flattery in the girl's persistent
gaze, or appreciating her devotion to
himself, he turned from her with profound
annoyance, mentally wondering at her unlikeness
to her mother, and determined to avoid,
as much as possible, coming in contact with a
person so little sympathetic to him.



CHAPTER XXIX.
hero's last song.

Perhaps no man, and very few women, can
understand the nature of an enthusiastic young
girl's first love, especially where that love is
given in secret and unsolicited. Many of us
may be able to call to mind the grotesque infatuations
of our youth ; our insane prepossession
for a particular form of nose, limp, cast
of the eye, grizzled occiput, carroty beard,
manner of pronunciation, stammer, lisp, laugh,
accent, or what not, that caused the object of
our youthful predilection to differ from his or
her fellows. For it is one of the characteristics
of this form of youthful folly, that it generally
selects some slight defect (not considerable
enough to amount to deformity, but sufficiently
departing from the general rule to be piquant)
in the object of its adoration. Nor is the sex
of the idolised, as a rule, of any importance.

270 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

A young relative once confessed to me a frantic
admiration for a small scar or bran-like blemish
on a fair cheek ; and the Sabbath devotions of
her pupil were considerably interfered with by
the little curls at the nape of her French
governess's neck (which rose in stately unconsciousness
above the back of the pew), as the
maiden, amidst much laughter, in later years
avowed. A niece loved one of her aunts with
a rapt and delighted adoration, simply because
that lady could not pronounce the letter E ;
and a gallant admiral, with a cast in his eye,
appeared during several months to be the most
fascinating of beings to a girl who afterwards
preferred twin orbs of vision.

Given two ordinary eyes, and the spell is
broken. Replace the ' W's ' with good rolling
E's,' and the enchantment vanishes. If weare
to believe the result of inquiry, these follies
of fascination are by no means uncommon
phenomena, nor is the eccentric experience
confined to a deluded few.

It is quite certain that it enters largely into
that condition which we call being ' in love.'
Even the defects of the adored object then
become graces in the eyes of the adorer, or we
should not see and hear the funny things we

HERO'S LAST SONG. 271

continually do from infatuated lovers. With
Bianca the infatuation was not grounded on
any childish folly of the kind referred to ; but
it was none the less the product of her own
imagination, and as such scarcely susceptible of
reason, and certainly not to be argued or
demonstrated away.

In the vast mosaic daily growing under
Mellin's hand, every infinitesimal chip of stone,
no matter what its shape, size, or colour, had,
or would eventually have, its use and place.
Poor little Bianca Martello, with her stupid
rebellious little heart and impatient ignorance,
had been a very small fragment indeed for such
a great artificer to pick up ; it had no merit but
that of having lain in his route, and, rather than
kick it aside, he stooped to its level and added
it to the specimens already in his bag.

When a man of a certain age, a man of the
world (who knows ' Society ' and ' Life ' in all
their phases), condescends to notice a girl whom
very few have in any way noticed so far  boys
of her own age because they despise every
created thing wearing a petticoat, and older
men because the maiden is still in the schoolroom,
and therefore, as yet, to be ignored for a
time  the girl is very likely to form exaggerated

272 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

ideas of her own importance and of the discrimination
of her hero. She invests him with
a thousand exalted virtues, which would make
him the deadliest of prigs did he really possess
the accredited attributes ; she endows him with
graces which not even the fondest mother in her
weakest moment would be capable of discerning
in him ; she believes that for qualities and
capacities the world has never known his
equal, and she associates everything grand and
good, beautiful and sublime, with his name.
Then comes the attitude of the man to her, his
humble handmaiden. Marriage and the tame
commonplaces of material existence never enter
into a girl's mind so long as this is the condition
of her being. No sordid cares as to ways and
means need degrade the demi god, or bring
him off his pedestal, or cause him to show his
feet and hands of clay in the ignoble search after
bread and cheese. It is the old story of Jupiter
and Semele. The god condescends to her
lower estate. She worships him behind the
cloud, and waits till he shall reveal himself.
He speaks and she obeys ; she anticipates his
wishes, flies to carry out his commands. His
approval sets, she believes, a sign and stamp
upon her. He, who has known lovely women

HERO'S LAST SONG. 273

of all ranks and ages, unbends to approve her.
His notice is the Hall-mark that confers rank.
He may not signify approval in words, the fact
of his holding speech with her is enough to
convey his estimate ; the girl's vanity is flattered
and gratified, excited and soothed, in the
most delicate, the most delicious manner, by her
own imagination. Probably the man would
indignantly deny ever having spoken an appreciative
word to her in his life, or cast so much
as a passing thought in her direction. He has
been kind because it is his nature to be so, and
because there was no reason why he should be
unkind ; because she is young and pleasant,
fresh and frank, a gently-nurtured maiden, and
as such entitled to consideration. Perhaps he
has unconsciously encouraged her by a word of
cheery approval. If he has done so it is
probably the remembrance of his own loveless,
cheerless youth that lends an unwonted tenderness
to his tone of recognition. She may even
remind him of a playmate-sister, or a little first
Love long since departed to the land of spirits.
Something after this vague, impersonal, unseeing
fashion, Mellin had been kind to Bianca.
Then he had recognised in her mother the
heroine of that one brief infatuation, the sole

VOL. II. T

274 A UT CAESAR A UT NIHIL.

romance of a life that had had nothing 'for
itself in all the waste of past years  the
impossible she ' of a hopeless fancy. Some
vague idea that fate might take him to England;
some romantic, improbable, beautiful
vision of an English ' home,' with its large
and liberal surroundings, had softened him at
Sprudelheim into a more personal and less
frigid frame than was his wont. Then Julie de
KerezofF had recalled him to duty and ' the
Cause ' by one or two winged words, and withall
a woman's practical sense had seen how to
make Bianca useful.

These English are so generous, so inflammable,
and, despite their phlegm, such enthusiasts
! ' she said. ' Anyone may have their money
for the asking, and we are fools if we do not
take what others may and will, if we don't ;
for we need funds sorely.'

But after a time, as we have seen, the contributions
ceased to flow in, and then Bianca,
being of no more use, she had passed insensibly
away from Mellin's consideration and every-day
memory. A special place in it she had never
held ; there was no disloyalty in this 'desertion ';
he had other and weightier matters to attend
to, and the little Anglo-Italian, if she ever

HERO'S LAST SONG. 275

crossed his mind, served only to make him sigh
over the folly of a dream that had lasted even
less time than our sleeping visions are said
to do.

With that peculiarly tenacious patience
which is a characteristic of the Eussian character
from the moujik to the minister, from the
peasant to the prince, he had pursued his course
unwaveringly, ungrudgingly, from year to year.
Orme Hast ohm Bast had been his motto. He
who labours for Humanity must needs learn to
wait. There was none of the ardent hopefulness
which we are wont to associate with
enthusiasm. There was rather an abiding
touch of melancholy endurance that was but a
hair's-breadth removed from despair. He had
learned to labour and to wait.

The very articles of his political creed condemned
him to renounce all personal ends and
ambitions. Solovieff, it was true, had married
a wife and left her, pursuing his pilgrimages
across Russia, from north to south, from east to
west, preaching the secret propaganda, received
everywhere, so soon as he judged it wise to
reveal himself, with a wild rapture of enthusiasm.
He arrogated nothing to himself for
obeying the old apostolic rule. Scrip and shoon,

T 2

276 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

bread and shelter, the necessaries of life, were
always forthcoming for him ; had he needed
luxuries and so much as held up his finger,
plenty would have poured in upon him. But
Solovieff was a man whose life might terminate
violently any moment of any day ; and thus he
needed to take no thought for the indefinite
morrow,' which would surely ' take thought
for itself.'

And there were many Solovieffs in the land.

But to Mellin this test of devotion to ' the
Cause ' had been mercifully spared.

He had seen in Hero the one woman who
had ever stirred his imagination or quickened
his pulses. He could picture to himself how
blest would be the lot of a man who could
associate such a woman with his pursuits and
duties, but he had never for one brief moment
believed that he could be that man.

Some vague expressions let fall by Hero as
she leant over the parapet of that far Rhineland
castle, and looked down upon the fertile
valleys and frugal homesteads, on the cities,
towns, and villages, had shown that she, too,
understood that vast dumb cry of Humanity,
crushed down by a Fate too universal to be
defied, too hopeless to be rebelled against, yet

HERO'S LAST SONG. 277

rising, it might be not unnoted, to Heaven.
The words she had spoken revealed capabilities
which, as Mellin told himself, might have
rendered invaluable assistance, and yet, most
probably, would ne' 7 er be utilised. She, like
many another noble-hearted woman, would go
down to her grave not dreaming of the amount
of energy lying dormant within her, which,
under other circumstances, might have been
taught to work incalculable good to thousands
outside the narrow sphere of home and family,
but not, therefore, necessarily, outside the
sympathy of good men and women.

The sight of Bianca, whose very existence
was in so far forgotten that, unless recalled to
his mind by extraneous circumstances, he had
ceased to be aware of it, produced in him an
involuntary sense of irritation that plainly betrayed
itself. He was cold and unwilling in
manner to the girl, whose eagerness, in spite of
herself, beamed in every feature of her countenance,
in every change of her anxious inquiring
glance.

Because she reminded him of the one
woman he had any trouble in forgetting, he
resented her presence ; because a sense of
excitement, restlessness, personal wilfulness,

278 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

indiscretion, a something not to be defined,
yet still less to be ignored, gave him a sense of
danger and disquietude in Bianca's presence, he
avoided her. Mellin loved repose. His was,
in all things, the negative method. He preferred
obtaining his ends by fair means. Foul
were only to be used in the last resort, when
everything else should have been unavailingly
tried. As certain springs run underground,
their course unsuspected until some accident
of the terrain brings them to light, so the
channels of his mind and will lay deep hidden
from the general eye, his agents unsuspected,
his associates unrecognised, his actions compromised.
Bianca, with her restlessness and
imprudence, introduced an element of insecurity
into things of which he was nervously
aware. He blamed himself for having allowed
Julie de Kerezoff so far to initiate the girl that
he had found himself pledged to allow her the
privilege of that grim Order which bound her to
their Cause. Intuitive dislike, or perhaps, more
justly speaking, dread of the possible consequences
of her undisciplined nature, gave his
manner, always cold and reserved, a tinge of
animosity. When circumstances forced him to
recognise Bianca, he did no more than bare

HERO'S LAST SONG. 279

politeness demanded ; and more than once,
finding her eyes fixed upon him with an expression
which he could not define, he had
impatiently left the drawing-room where they
were, resolved so to speak that when next
chance brought them together she should take
offence, and thenceforth and for ever ignore his
existence.

But when the time came, and opportunity
offered, he felt that he had no ostensible reason
for insulting a young lady, a stranger, by
undue harshness of speech or roughness of
manner. She was under the protection of the
Countess Perowsky, the most powerful woman,
in certain senses, in St. Petersburg, and one on
no account to be offended. He would simply
ignore Miss Martello. She could not force him
to speak to her if he did not choose ; and he
would give a hint to Julie de Kerezoff to look
after her protegee.

How have you offended Mellin ? ' the little
lady asked of Bianca. ' He says you are not to
be trusted ; you are imprudent, impulsive, and
that you will get us into trouble.'

This Bianca felt to be hard. In what
sore trouble had she not been, and then to be
accused of imprudence ! Had she betrayed

iso AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

one word. Had she not resisted all entreaties
and threats, and remained loyal in spite of
everything ? ' The tears welled up into her
eyes. She dashed them indignantly away.

Did he tell you to say that ? '

8 Well, not exactly. Something of the
kind. You must not irritate Mellin .'

I irritate him ? '

Well, don't take the initiative in anything ;
don't make a show of intimacy with him. Just
send a message to him to say that you will be
careful.'

I shall send no such message.'

Why not ? '

I shall speak to him myself.'

Then you will simply make matters worse.
Mellin hates a scene. He despises women, and
he certainly will not enter into explanations.'

You seem to know a great deal about
him.'

< I do.'

Then Bianca turned silent and moody ; and
jealousy and suspicion worked still further
mischief in her mind. She was silly enough
not to see that her hostile attitude to Madame
de KerezofF could scarcely engage that lady's
suffrages in her favour ; and though Julie was

HERO'S LAST SONG. 281

too much in earnest, too much worried by-anxiety
in her own family and affairs to attribute
much importance to the waywardness of a
spoiled child, yet the annoyance she felt did
not fail to colour the report of the scene which
she gave to Mellin.

8 She is utterly impracticable

As I feared.'

No, not in that way. I believe she is to
be trusted ; but these young people are
fatiguing with their exactions and fancies and
airs and graces. Everything is a matter of
personal vanity and offence with them

And so the matter dropped.

Bianca, when she came to think things
over, saw that she had been foolish. She
rushed to the other extreme, and decided to
feel herself honoured by Mellin's thinking her
of sufficient importance to send messages to her
through a third person. She avoided him so
ostentatiously, and gave him bows of such
extraordinary stiffness, that the Countess
Perowsky rallied her on her dignified attitude.

8 1 thought Mellin was an old friend of your
family, my dear,' she said ; ' you treat him
with as much hauteur as if he were a young
spark whose attentions you wished to 

AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

courage. Baron Mellin is a " personage." We
all show him respect, and as he is old enough
to be your father, and not so much as vulnerable
in the heel, you can afford to be at your
ease with him.'

Put upon her guard, Bianca strove to
modify her manner, and partially succeeded.
Then she had met Esther Eodostamos, and
unable to deny her extraordinary beauty,
witness of the adulation offered her on all
sides, and wearied with the stories told of her
fabulous wealth and entire independence,
jealousy took a concrete form, and settled
down with a steady hatred of the heiress, that
was all the more profound because necessarily
silent.

Thus she had maliciously tried to vex Graham
by calling his attention to Esther's ' flirtation
' with Mellin, whereas it was only her own
sore angry heart that she was agonising. She
felt herself to be badly used all round. Why
had the Countess not placed her next to Mellin,
and seated Graham and Esther together ? All
St. Petersburg knew about the portrait  about
the mad infatuation of Orestes and Places, as
the two Englishmen had been nicknamed  and
now Mellin, too, who was reported to enjoy the

HERO'S LAST SONG. 283

heiress's confidence and to direct her wealth
into channels of his own selection, he, also,
must be made to fall before her chariot wheels !

Nursing her wrath, the poor angry child
was eating her proud heart out, and beginning
to recognise that in a crowd she was yet
utterly alone. And alone, by her desolate
hearthstone, sat Hero, and reviewed the past.

Fortunately for her, before Bianca's departure
Mr. Owen had sailed for San
Francisco, entrusted by a company which was
in process of formation with the task of fully
reporting upon a huge mining property then in
the market, and which certain speculative financiers
intended bringing out in London (should
all go well). Affairs had not been arranged so
smoothly as the sanguine Irishman had anticipated,
and matters were still being negotiated.
Hero, in reply to his reasons and excuses for
remaining absent, urged him to stay as long as
was convenient, for, she added, the winter in
England threatened to be unusually severe,
and he would do well to avoid it.

This fortunate absence of her father, though
it left her in bitter solitude, yet saved her
from all embarrassing explanations. It also
gave her time to brood incessantly, to examine,

284 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

question, and reproach herself, first on one
count, then on another. It was no wonder if,,
in her isolation, her mind dwelt much on the
past, and especially on that portion of it, brief
and delusive as the happiness had proved, when
her heart rose up and spoke for itself, asserting
the rights and claims so long denied. She
remembered her mother's affection for, and
confidence in, Graham ; she recalled his tender
consideration for her, his loveless, ruined life,
and she accused herself of coldness. She had
been rich in parents and child ; her daily life
was full of the companionship and sympathy of
a sweet and noble woman ; she had her art ;
she had her baby girl to work for, to think of,
to prank out in delicate attire, to play with, to
pray for. Nay more, deep down, somewhere
in those mysterious depths (that only rare
soundings reach) of the mother's nature, she
was aware there had been a time when she
was almost thankful for the barrier existing
between herself and Graham. Should not her
child always be first with her ? Was she not
bound to be father and mother both to this
little blossom, whose fragile life had lent fresh
beauty at its darkest hour to her own? Could
it be right that this ' child of her mother only '

HERO'S LAST SONG. 285

should ever be supplanted  nay, that could
never be !  but should ever share the mother's
affections with little brothers and sisters born
under happier auspices, richer by a good father
than this forlorn little one?

Hero had felt, in those earlier days, that to
tell the man she loved he must not claim the
first place in her affections was scarcely a
prudent or a kindly answer to the love which,
on his part, he offered unconditionally. And
she had secretly acknowledged to herself the
mercifulness of fate in sparing her the ungracious
and unwelcome task. She told herself
that, in the unreasoning, unquestioning happiness
of her newly found love she had been
forgetful of her trust, and that her sin of
oblivion had soon found her out and overtaken
her. For a few short days she had thought
only of Graham ; she had looked neither backwards
nor forwards. Love had come as a
revelation, and her spirit had soared into the
ether of an Italian heaven, and, poised like a
lark, between the sky and the earth, had sung
its song of rejoicing at Heaven's gate.

One of the darts in Truth's quiver, pointed
with just aim, stopped that song and brought
the singer to earth, never again so to soar,

286 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

long as breath might last. The ruin and the
failure of one life meant now, the ruin and
failure of two lives  or would have done so
but that she promised Graham hers should
prove he had not brought fresh misfortunes to
her existence, nor completed the ruin which
another had commenced.

Graham went his lonely way. Not heartbroken,
for he believed in Hero's love, and
told himself she was a woman to be waited
for ; a companion to be sought, though years
might elapse in the seeking, and the quest be
full of pain.

The World is very apt to say of a woman
who leads a loveless life that she is 'coldhearted.'
If, by an act of imprudence, the
woman forgets her apparent coldness of heart,
the World stones her to death ; or, should life
prove tenacious, it turns its back upon her
prostrate form, and, with a shrug of the worldly-wise
shoulders, forgets her very existence. More
than one of Hero's friends had reproached
her with being cold-hearted ; many of her acquaintances
had repeated the glib criticism
amongst themselves in hours of easy gossip.
What would they have ? Wives with adoring
(or reputed adoring) husbands ; matrons ex-hero's

LAST SONG. 287

experienced, twice or thrice wedded, and rich in
social knowledge of all kinds ; brides of a
month, whose honeyed moon is scarcely yet
mooned out ; frances who believe that they
have a monopoly of love and admiration, health
and happiness  these and many more prosperous
persons of their kind are apt to call
less fortunate women, starved of the love the
fair cavillers prank themselves withal, ' coldhearted
; ' and yet, were any warmth of heart
visible, these female Cato would combine unhesitatingly
in the virtuous works of ' cold
shouldering ' and censure, until their victim,
done to death by slanderous tongues,' should
seek mercy in place of the judgment that has
dealt so hardly by her !

Fortunately for Hero, her mother and child
gave the strength necessary to bid her lover
farewell, and to stifle unavailing regrets in
work that should make others happy, and remove
the sense of uselessness from her life.
Fortunately, too, Mrs. Owen's presence, and
Graham's consideration for and tenderness of
Hero's fair fame, helped to make her difficulty
less ; and as, year by year her child grew
more and more of a companion to her, as the
pet and plaything ripened into a tall, slim

288 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

young maiden  so that at thirty-four Hero
looked like the seventeen-years-old Bianca's
sister,  the mother had come to shrink timidly
from all thoughts of love and marriage, to
renounce all the prerogatives of Youth, and to
resign every claim which might seem in anyway
to imply an unseemly rivalry between
mother and daughter.

I am older than my years,' she would say
to her own mother ; 4 if I look younger I am
all the greater sham, for I am conscious of a
gravity and a greyness of spirit that make me
wonder my hair is not white.' To herself she
said that had the Fates permitted her and
Graham to marry whilst Bianca was yet a
baby, the girl need never have known, and
would probably never have realised, that the
husband was not also the father; but in the
solitude of her own room, Hero's fair cheek
blushed a deeper hue, now that it was too late.
With a grown-up daughter, the thought of
being wooed and wedded seemed to Hero
something less than delicate, out of season, and
forbidden by the inner canons of the spirit.

And yet, as she now sits and reviews the
past, she sees that the man her maternal instinct
had persuaded her to sacrifice to her child,

HERO'S LAST SONG. 289

might have brought security to her troubled
existence.

She had been ready to offer up the one love
of her life, the love of a grown woman for a
grown man ; a man estimable and worthy,
with all the manly attributes of honour, truth,
tenderness, and courage likely to endear him to
the woman of his choice ; for the sake of a child
to whom the magnitude of the sacrifice must, in
the nature of things, remain for ever unknown

Before the task of uprooting Graham's
memory could be accomplished, Bianca had,
herself, rushed blindly at a pretext for that
separation which to the deserted mother seemed
little less than complete severance.

One or two friendly little notes she had
received from Graham, assuring her that Bianca
was well and in good spirits. At present that
was all he could tell her ; doubtless she often
heard from the girl herself; he would write
again.

So that Fate had given Bianca a protector
in Graham, though she did not guess it, and
Hero a comforter in the man whom she had
mentally rejected. She could not guess that
her child's angry and rebellious heart was
beginning to turn homeward in its trouble, nor
vol. 11. u

290 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

did she recognise the first note of softened
feeling in the Nunc Dimittis of disappointment.


6 Dear mother,' wrote Bianca, disdaining
superlatives as milk for babes, or sugar plums
for spoiled children, ' I am now settled with
the Countess Helena Perowska for the winter.
She is a celebrated beauty, very religious, and
very much sought after by everybody of note
here. She receives twice a week after the
theatre, and every evening from dusk onwards
people drop in unofficially. I see very little of
the KerezofFs. She seems always busy, and
theirs is a different circle. Still she comes.
Baron Mellin is a stranger, not to the Prows
but in his manner to me. I don't think
he would have noticed or recognised me, but
the Countess called him and said I was staying
with her for the winter. Now I shall give you
a piece of news which will astonish you even
more than it did me, for nothing astonishes
one here very much. Mr. Graham is in St.
Petersburg! He has been sent over by the
English Government, and is doing something
about art for the South Kensington people.
His great friend is Lord Dovedale. They
go everywhere together, and they are both

HERO'S LAST SONG.



in love with the same lady. Mr. Graham
knew her in Eome, years ago (she is twenty-three
now, then she was fifteen or sixteen ; I
wonder if you knew her ?), and he began a
portrait of her then. He is doing another now,
and one hears of nothing else. No one has
seen it. But he goes there every day, and
people are most inquisitive to know how it will
end. Some say when the portrait is finished
she will marry the painter. Lord Dovedale has
offered to her again and again. She is enormously
wealthy. Some people say she is a
Jewess. Her name would not lead one to
think so, but as Jews are so fond of titles, she is
sure in the end to marry the lord, and become
Marchioness of Matlock. That is what people
say : I don't know, and only repeat it as gossip.
For gossip there is nothing like Eussian society.
They sit in circles and scandalise ; yet they
are very good-natured, and don't believe half
they hear or tell. Their gossiping propensities
are only equalled by their indolence, Ijenj
they call it. I have heard you say the Irish
are unapproachable in that way, but they are
out-distanced by the Eussians. Esther Eodosta-
mos is an orphan. As she is romantic (as well
as wealthy), she can marry to please herself,
u 2

2Q2 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

I have heard twice from Princess Paul
Karishkin. Everyone likes her. You cannot
imagine how kind and simple these great ladies
are, and amused with things that we should
think childish. It makes them very engaging
and easy to get on with. And so generous!
They give as a matter of course, in that sort of
way that you hardly know you are receiving a
costly present. Do you ever see Fitz and the
Hudsonss? Give my love to F., and to my
aunt, if he thinks fit. I hope by this time
grand-P. is with you. You always liked solitude,
but I should think even you had had
enough of it by this time.  Ever, dear mamma,
your affectionate daughter,

'Blanc MARTELLO.

'Pes.  Your last song is sung in all the
drawing-rooms here. Everything English is
the rage, from literature down to pins.'

6 You always liked solitude ! '

If so, as Hero bitterly told herself, here was
a fine prospect ! She would be alone for the
rest of her life. And, as pain laid an icy grip
upon her heart, and strangled her cry of sorrow
in a cruel spasm of the throat, the world and
its troubles and deceptions faded away into

HERO'S LAST SONG. 293

dim insubstantiality, and left her lying, white,
silent, and motionless beside her solitary hearthstone.


'her" last song' was to be a lifelong
solo !

294 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

CHAPTER XXX.

THE TCHOENI-NAEOD.

As Graham was returning from a ' constitutional'
in the direction of Peterhof one afternoon,
' chewing the cud of sweet and bitter
memories ' as he trudged, wondering how it
fared with Hero, and cursing the fate which
kept him far from the only woman he had ever
loved, he suddenly awakened to the fact of
finding himself in a distant and unknown part
of the town, and in the midst of a population
entirely new to him. Preoccupied with his
own thoughts, he had not noticed whither his
footsteps tended, and it was only the unwontedness
of his surroundings that at last broke in
upon his meditations and roused him to a
perception of the novelty of the situation. He
was in the ' Seven Dials ' of St. Petersburg, in
the midst of the Tchomi-?iarod, the ' black
people,' the great unwashed, the mob, the

THE TCHORNI-NAROD. 295

plebs, the hoi jiolloi, that profoundly ignorant
and strangely mixed floating population
familiarly known in the city of the Neva, and
self-baptised the ' black people,' which, white
though it be, accepts a modified slavery,
digs to-day and begs tomorrow, delves monday,
and gets drunk on quass or vodki
o'-Tuesday ; flies like leaves driven before the
wind, prostrating itself by the thousand, with
faces biting the dust, and frantic shouts of
Gossudar, Batyushka ! ' on Wednesday ; and on
Thursday wrecks the train, or fires the palace,
of the holy Czar, going to death and judgment
with face as calm as fate, unmoved, indifferent.
Living patient lives, on black bread, vodki,
pickled cucumber, Stehi, and, when they can
afford it, tea, with a squeeze of lemon, the 4 black
people ' are for the most part silent. Wrapped
in their sheepskin toulouse, the ischvostchiks,
the dvorniks, or garden, and the moulins, will
take such lodging as heaven affords them, and
during the greater part of the year sleep where
and how they can  111 summer, a la belle etoile ;
in winter, behind the stove or in the hay-loft.
Now and again this patient, silent, long-suffering
folk will be seized with active, unreasoning
instincts of rebellion : some superstition 

AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

raged, some prejudice ignored, the temporary-influence
of a mob orator, helped forward by
strong drink, and their wonted smiling apathy
and gentle good-nature is merged in insensate
fury. Nothing but overpowering force can
master the tumult : reason is the last thing to
be appealed to, for the very obvious fact that
they have no reason. Brute force must subdue
and bring them into bounds ; superior power
must dominate them. No one argues with
children, and yet children find out (or used in
earlier, happier times to find out) that they must
obey. "They accept the fact ; they do not argue
about the Why, and the Wherefore, of it.

Graham was conscious of a certain movement,
a certain suppressed tension and excitement,
an unwonted animation in the faces
about him ; and presently, as the crowd grew
denser, and the compact masses began to sway
to and fro, the pressure in the narrow street
forcing him against a brick wall, carried him
perforce to a corner where four converging
roads met.

His very slight acquaintance with the
Eussian language, to say nothing of the patois
spoken all around him, rendered it impossible
for him to gain a clue to the cause of the uproar ;

THE TCHORNI-NAROD. 297

but an instinct of prudence told him that his
wisest course was to follow the stream, and to
keep as much as possible in the background.
Not only was his intrusion as a stranger and
foreigner into this obscure quarter likely to be
resented by the Tchomi-narod, but his mere
presence, as a man of higher rank, an aristocrat,
would be likely to attract hostile attention.

Suddenly he became aware of the cause of
the riot.

Coining towards him, down the centre of
the crowded street, accompanied by a rabble
of boys and girls, a group of men evidently in
joyful possession of their prey, were haling
some offender to justice. At the doors women,
mothers of families, the wives and sweethearts
of the men, stood loudly applauding, and as the
shouts and jeers of the multitude came nearer,
it was plain that not a pleading voice or pitying
hand was raised in favour of the unfortunate
delinquent.

Suddenly, the shrill cry of a terrified
woman rent the air, rising high above the
growling menaces of the mob, and the next
moment he saw to his horror that the object
of all this popular obloquy was one of the
weaker sex ; for, terrified and blinded with

298 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

fear, the woman stumbled and fell heavily to
the ground, thus momentarily checking the
onward movement of the procession, arrested
by her prostrate form.

Renewed yells and cries encouraged her
tormentors to fresh outrage : the men kicked
her where she lay prone, urging her to getup
that they might drag her to her destination ;
the women, like furies, applauded each fresh
attack upon the helpless creature. Shocked,
and yet fully aware of the utter futility of interference
in such a case, where one man, alone,
could do nothing effectual on behalf of the
popular victim, and might only increase the
tumult by untimely and unauthorised opposition,
Graham looked round in hopes of seeing
some friendly face, some guardian of the law
to whom appeal might not unreasonably be
made. Whilst he was thus engaged, a piercing
shriek recalled his  attention to the prostrate
woman, who, goaded by her persecutors, had
risen to her feet, and escaping from them at a
sudden bound, had staggered blindly forward,
and now flung herself at Graham's knees,
clasping them with both her arms, as she
appealed wildly to him in some unknown
tongue for mercy and protection.

THE TCHORNI-NAROD, 299

It was Clielanska !

He recognised her in a moment ; he had
seen her hundreds of times, curled up and
waiting patiently in different antechambers for
her mistress ; holding Esther's pelisse until she
came out, after paying visits. He had seen her
knitting and sewing in a corner of one of the
many rooms of Esther's house, within call of
her young mistress, faithful, humble, patient asa
dog. More than once she had surprised him
by rising out of the floor of the sledge, where
she had lain concealed waiting for her lady,
who was shopping, or inspecting some hospital
or orphanage.

How could he abandon the woman to her
fate ? Or rather, what could he possibly do to
avert it ? He could not tell. Only he laid his
hand kindly on her shoulder, and bade her
rise.

The Jewess ! kill the Jewess ! give her
carcase to poison the starving town curs, or to
feast masterless mongrels ! Show her how to
murder Christian babes for her witches' Sabbath,
and drink their blessed baptised Christian
blood ! Death to the crucified of the Lord !
Break her bones, and cast her as offal to the
void, that the wolves and foxes and obscene

soo AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

night-birds may prey upon her ! Death to the
Jewess ! death to the vampire, the unclean
beast branded with the eternal mark of the
Almighty ! '

The woman, her pale face bedaubed with
blood, and convulsed with terror, her long
black hair loosened and hanging in strands
over her shoulders, her cloak in tatters, one
shoe lost, held up her clenched hands in an
agony of pleading to her merciless tormentors.


Good people, hear me ! I am no Jewess !
I am the housekeeper of Esther Eodostamos,
whom you all know is liberal to you, and loves
the poor, the sick, and the suffering. Take me to
her ; she is rich ; she is your friend ; she will
reward you. Spare me, good people ! you are
mistaken ; I never harmed any of you ! I am
no Jewess. I am one of the Dvorovie of your
benefactress. I am a Pole. I come from the
good town of Warsaw. I was foster-nurse to
my lady, and lived with her lady-mother.
Ask the gentleman if what I say is not true ! '
And cringing and trembling the poor wretch
fell again upon her trembling knees.

'Witch, sorceress, heretic, false tongue,
liar ! She says she is no Jewess ! Did we

THE TCH0RN1-NAR0D. 301

not see her coming out of the synagogue ?
Did she not look at Michael Chariot's boy,
and did he not wither, perish, and die ? Hold
your foul tongue, hag of hell, and hope for no
more mercy from us than you and yours
showed the dear Lord, for which take the
curses of Christendom ! '

Stones began to rain and hail from all
quarters. The blood was streaming down
Chelanska's pallid face ; a flint cut Graham's
lip, and he clearly realised that it was a mere
question of time ere they were torn limb from
limb, since no word he could say had any
meaning for the infuriate mob. He stooped to
Chelanska, and made her understand that there
was a door behind him, and that if he could
open it backwards unperceived, there was for
her yet a chance of escape.

He bade her crawl from his feet, and if she
could only succeed in getting in, to bolt the
door on the inner side, and leave him to chance.

This whispered colloquy enraged the mob
to the point of exasperation. Who was this
foreigner (for foreigner they perceived him to
be) that he should rob them of their lawful
prey ? ' Away with them, away with them ! *
was now the cry.

302 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

It was no longer a question of the woman
alone. A fresh shower of missiles, rattling on
the walls and the wooden door behind them,
proved to Graham that not a moment was to
be lost.

Suddenly, a carriage drawn by two black
horses, whose driver whipped them up to
unwonted speed, dashed through the swaying,
shouting crowd, dividing the clamorous multitude
in its headlong course. Everyone instinctively
moved to get out of the way. In the
carriage were seated two ladies, and Graham
could not but fear that the pace at which they
were going would prevent them from realising
the truth, or perceiving the dangerous situation
in which Chelanska and he found themselves.
But just as he lost all hope of attracting their
attention, at a word which reached the ears of
one of the two ladies, the carriage stopped.

So sudden was the check to their swift
career that the horses fell back upon their
haunches, foaming at the mouth, quivering and
trembling in every limb.

The Countess Helena Perowska and Esther
Eodostamos sat side by side, both deadly pale,
both perfectly self-possessed ; only in Esther's
eyes shone a light that told of courage and

THE TCHORNI-NAROD. 303

indignation, and a sense of outrage far stronger
than fear.

Her quick eye took in the whole situation
at a glance, and, as Chelanska's hoarse voice
came wailing up from the pavement, where she
lay crouched at Graham's feet, a thin thread of
blood trickling down her livid face, her hands
cut and bleeding, ' I am no Jewess, I am a
Pole, good people ; I am a Pole of Warsaw,'
Esther sprang indignantly to her feet.

1 What ! ' she cried in an impassioned voice,
standing upright in the carriage, and tearing off
her veil as she spoke, ' what ! you good
Christians, you followers of Christ ; you, who
profess mercy and whose gospel is one of peace
and goodwill, you men, shame upon you !
You women : worse than wolves ! You turn
upon a poor, lonely, weak creature, and in
fifties and hundreds band together to stone her
to death, to hound her to destruction ! Out
upon you for cowards ! Out upon you for
ingrates ! What Chelanska? You deny that
you are a Jewess to please these brutal Christians,
these Pagans, whom every good Christian
would scorn to call his brethren? Look at
me ! I am a Jewess ! I am of the race that
gave you your Lord ! I am of the race of His

3 o4 A Ul Caesar A UT NIHIL.

mother, of Her who lived and died a Jewess,
subject in all things to the Jewish laws ! lam
of the race of the apostles ; they were all Jews,
Jewish fishermen, humble, hard-working men,
day labourers toiling for daily wage like yourselves
; not Princes of the House of Israel, not
prophets, priests, or kings, but labouring men,
workers, toilers, men and women of the people.
Who, in all your crowd, does not know me ?
Has Jewish money not built your hospitals,
nursed your orphans, fed your sick, and aged,
and poor ? What man or woman ever came
to me that I cast him or her out, because he or
she might profess and practise Christianity ?
Jewish gold you have never been too proud to
take, and you were right, because it was offered
freely, as a sister offers to her brothers who are
one with her, and knows no difference of faith
or race. Styro Eodostamos was a Greek, he
was of your faith, he worshipped in your
churches ; he baptised me, his daughter, according
to the rites of your religion, and if I declare
myself to be a Jewess, it is that I may show
you I am of the same race as the poor, faithful,
timid creature you, in your ignorant bigotry, in
your darkened fanaticism, in your shameful
savage cruelty, have well-nigh hounded to

THE TCHORNI-NAROD. 305

death. If you must needs stone Recesses,
stone me, Esther Eodostamos ! Then you will
murder someone worth murdering; you will
sacrifice the offending mistress, not the inoffensive
maid. I am at least bigger game ; and, if
our race be all our fault, I am equally guilty
with Chelanska ! '

There was a pause and deep sullen silence
in the crowd.

1 Come here, Chelanska ! ' said her mistress,
too indignant as yet for tenderness to modify
her clear, loud, ringing tones. ' Be so good as
to help her, Mr. Graham,' she added, in her
every-day voice, turning with her every-day
manner to Chelanska's silent champion.

Her face was aglow with emotion. Her
honest indignation and scorn had paralysed the
dull thick-skinned mob, whilst excitement lifted
her, as regarded the populace, far above all
every-day considerations. Her heart was full;
she had not yet done with the crowd.

As she stood looking into the sea of upturned
faces below, Graham said to himself
that she was perfectly noble, touched with
some finer essence, tuned to a higher courage
and to a nobler tone than belongs to. the woman
of every day.

vol. 11. x

AUT CMSAR AUT NIHIL.

4 If I claim kinship with the poor and the
despised, if I declare myself to be of a hated
and persecuted race, why is it? ? she went on.
You at least, my men, who are labouring men 7
should feel more friendly towards me since I
espouse the cause of them who toil and struggle,
bearing burthens grievous to be borne." And
you women, you who are mothers, or who have
been mothers of men whose lives were one
long labour, you ought not to hate me, since it
is for my mother's sake, and in memory of her
whose face was like that of the humble and
yet honoured Jewish Maiden, whom you all
adore, that I join myself to her people, and
declare myself one of them.'

The crowd, shaken in its convictions, still
hung back, ashamed, part resentful, part convinced,
half-unwilling, half-ungrateful, wholly
quelled. Graham w T as helping Chelanska into
a place by the side of the coachman.

One word more, my friends, and I have
done. Beside me is the Countess Helena
Perowska. Not one amongst you that has
ever known sorrow, need, or sickness, but he
also knows her name. In her good works she
has allowed me to .associate myself with her ;
we know of no difference of race or creed ; we

THE TCH0RN1-NAR0D. 307

acknowledge only one gospel, that of universal
brotherhood, the strong succouring the weak,
the rich helping the poor, the healthy saving
the sick. If she accepts me, and you do not
reject our united efforts in your sorrows and
troubles, why should you reject me, who ask
nothing of you but friendship in return for
my own goodwill, and pity for my poor unoffending
nurse and foster-mother ? '

That which she had not been able to
accomplish for herself, her allusion to Helena
Perowska effected. They knew (the more
intelligent amongst the mob) that they owed
her other and greater things than the
ostensible largesse of later years. They knew
what Esther did not  that she had pleaded for,
and procured, many a privilege for their
despised and neglected class ; had softened a
heart less hard than hopeless, less harsh than
despairing, to consider their complaints through
many a by-gone year of disenchantment and
failure. What in England would have been a
cheer arose, as Esther pointed to the beautiful
pale lady who had remained seated throughout
the appeal of her friend. Helena bowed her
gracious head like a queen, and calmly smiled
her lovely, civilising, soul-subduing smile into

308 AUT Caesar AVJ NIHIL

the grimy faces of the ' black people.' She
did not rise, as Esther had unconsciously done,
springing to her feet the better to dominate
her hearers.

My friends, I am ashamed of you,' Helena
said, in her clear, bell-like tones. ' We are
accused of being barbarians. I see we deserve
the reproach. This gentleman,' pointing to
Graham, ' comes from that England of which
you would not so much as know the name, save
for the good Eussian blood spilt in a hopeless
fight against the brave enemy we had unjustly
provoked. He can claim compensation, by the
laws of the land, for this outrage ; the magistrates
can fine and imprison you ; his is a great
and powerful nation with which we are now
at peace, and therefore you must expect to be
all the more severely punished for your unprovoked
onslaught on him.'

By this time all spirit had died out of the
concourse ; trembling and anxious, the foremost
amongst the ringleaders hung their heads
and shuffled nearer to the carriage, as they
watched the very syllables falling from Helena
Perowska's lips.

Shall I plead with him on your behalf? ' she
continued, her voice soft and clear as a silver

THE TCHORNI-NAROD. 309

flute. ' I do not promise he will forgive ; you
know best how severe would be the penalty-imposed
by law upon you. But the English
are a generous nation, and if you promise to
amend I will do my best '

We promise ! ' cried a hundred voices.

6 Well, I will accept your promise. But
that does not end the matter. This poor
woman whom you have mangled, trodden
under foot, maltreated, outraged, is the nurse
and foster-mother of your benefactress, my
friend, Esther Eodostamos. Without her your
platters would have been empty, your cupboards
bare, your hearths cold, your children
crying many and many a winter's day. You
all know that ; and you all know that the law
does not allow you to persecute an inoffensive
person, because he or she is of another race
than your own. Shall I beg the mistress to
forgive you, and intercede with the maid that
she lodge no information against you ? '

Yes, yes ; beg for us, gracious Countess !
If we go to prison our wives and little ones
starve ; we beg of " your nobility " to plead
our cause ! '

i Then remember,  if they consent to forego
the justice they have a right to demand,  that

310 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

two outraged Recesses are more generous,
merciful, arid Christian in their conduct than,
to our shame be it spoken, a whole city full
of pious Muscovites ! '

We swear, gracious lady, by all the
saints ; by our patron St. Peter, by St Alexander,
St. Nicholas, St. Andrew and St. Alexis,
we swear to " your nobility " that we will
offend no more ; ' and of those nearest to the
carriage, one seized the Countess's veil, another
bent to her hand, a third caught at the skirt
of her dress, a fourth saluted a fold of her
mantle, and all kissed the object grasped, with
a servile adoration, Oriental in its fervour,
humility, and abasement.

Drive home ! ' cried Esther, to the coachman
; and, leaning down to Graham, she
whispered : ' Come to me later on that I may
thank you. You are safe now, but the fury
of the mob is spent ; the first lilac we meet
I will send back for you.'

She was pale with emotion.

Strangely enough, although intensely conscious
of all that was going on around him,
nay, acutely alive to every fluctuating phase of
feeling in the crowd, Graham's mind had
slipped from his control ; and, by a process of

THE TCHORNI-NAROD. 311

unconscious dual cerebration, a far-away day
of his youth in England, the tones of a voice
long unheard, the very essence and atmosphere
of another time and of another place possessed
and absorbed him, side by side with the drama
that was being played out before his eyes.

'How strange,' he said to himself, 'that
such a fancy should come to me at such a
moment ! '

A pair of bold black eyes, a hard mouth,
a rasping unsympathetic voice seemed to be
defying him with a brazen impudence that
made his very soul sick. It was a relief to
get into the carriage and be driven to his
lodging. ' Why just then, and there ? ' he
asked himself, perplexed by the feat of imagination.


As the last sound of the wheels died
away, a woman in the crowd, who had been
a spectator of the whole scene from beginning
to end, though she had taken no active
part in it, shrugged her shoulders impatiently,
saying, in French, to the man on whose arm
she leant : ' Est-ce bete ? Via que les princesses
se relent a la canaille! Pourtant c'est
dommage que Dom Quichotte ait echappe aux
ammonites que void.'

312 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL

8 Le connais-tu f ' asked the man.

8 Si je le connais, par exemple ! La bete
de question! Mais cela riy fait rien. Ce sera
pour une autre fois'

Chapter PACK

XXXI. Alone 1

XXXII. Biding Hek Time ]l>

XXXIII. The Masked Ball 35

XXXIV. ' A Dreamer of Dreams " . .61
XXXV. In Kings' Palaces 7G

XXXVI. The Lull Before the Storm .  v  5>I

Xxxvi 'A Good Aunt' 100

Xxxvii 'That Man' 116

XXXIX. ' Eccles' Vein ' 132

XL. 'The Still Small Voice' . . 148

XLI. The Crack of Doom 167

XLII. 'After Many Days' .  . 173

Xlii 'A Doubting Heart "  . . . 188

XLIV. Discomfiture and Triumph . . 200

CONTENTS OF THE THIRD VOLUME.

(chapter

PAGE

XLV.

Love's Young Dream



Xlvi.

A Female Something ' . . . .



XLVII.

A Charmed Lope '



XLVIII.

 Op the Each of Eueik . . . .



XLIX.

TO-morrow '



L.

Nemesis



LI.

A Little Before the Break of Day

:320

LII.

Large Desires, and most Uncertain

Issues' . .

j2'"

Lii

News from Afar . . . . .



LIT.

A Hurried Journey



L'Extoi



AUT CSAR AUT Phil

Chapter XXXI.

ALONE.

The story of Esther's address to the people
could not fail to get wind. A mob is a rare
Q thing in Russia. Some strong superstition,
some long smouldering resentment, or, more
likely still, excessive potations of the blood
poisoning vodJci, must be at the back of any
popular tumult not directly inspired. The comments
Society made were varied and curious.

Esther was heartily ashamed of the fuss
caused by a very simple matter. In cool blood
the thing, or at least the part she had taken in
it, appeared to her melodramatic, not to say
vulgar. ' Please say no more about it,' she
cried ; ' I feel as little of a heroine as possible.
Had the audience been different, what I

VOL. in. B

2 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

did would have been in the worst possible
taste. My blood was up at the thought of my
poor, inoffensive Chelanska, a creature who
would not hurt a fly, falling the victim of
blind prejudice, and I did not stop to think of
the criticism of cool blood. They were afraid
of me, that was all. They were silent and
sulky until Helena Per ow ska spoke. Then
one saw the real Eussian humility and devotedness
to its recognised and lawful masters.
They were conquered and subdued, and one
could see that they loved their conqueror.'

It always seems to me so strange,' said
Lord Dovedale  who in his solicitude had
flown at the first rumour of the peril she had
passed through to Esther's side  ' that Kussia
and England should be supposititious enemies.
Both nations are chiefly distinguished by their
colonising powers, and by their absorption of
other nationalities ; both have been the apostles
of civilisation, though it may have been at the
point of the sword. There is enthusiasm and
fervour in Russia, enough and to spare ; and
the spirit of conquest, which is supposed to bea
legacy left to the Eomanoffs by the problematical
testament of Peter the Great, has
its parallels in the history of our own past

ALONE. 3

ambitions. Then that beautiful and impressive
custom which permits the lowest in the land
to speak to his social superior without prefix or
title ; which makes " Alexander, the son of
Nicholas," a more solemn mode of address than
any amount of ornamental titles could possibly
be. Feudalism has died out in France ; in
Germany it is to a great extent undermined,
or artificially maintained ; in England it only
exists in a modified form, and more as a matter
of social precedent, than as a popular sentiment
or a lawful prerogative ; and yet the jealous
and protective feeling of great landowners, with
us, for their dependents, brings them, in a sense,
on to the same platform as the childlike sentiment
which the Eussian peasant bears to the
lord of the soil, fusing, as it does, two extremes,
which the French proverb, not altogether
falsely declares, " se touchent The lower
orders in both countries are tea and spirit -
drinkers, whilst dissent from the State religion
finds the same sectarian spectre stalking the
land here as there ; for, if I am rightly informed,
there are no less than eleven thousand
Dissenters from the Orthodox Greek Church, in
Russia ! '

'Doubtless, my daughter, it was well to

B 2

4 AUT C.-ESAR A UT NIHIL.

save the shedding of innocent blood,' said the
Countess Helena's confessor, ' and the gracious
gifts that Providence has bestowed on you are
well employed in soothing angry feelings. But
if the woman really be a Jewess, our people do
well to see in her one of those who stood by
consenting, if they did not actually help, to
crucify our Lord.'

Fraulein Fest, in the depths of her simple
soul, hoped fervently that the increase of
anxiety and the delighted pride and enthusiasm
Lord Dovedale showed on Esther's
behalf might soften the hardness of the young
lady's heart, and cause her to incline a favourable
ear to his wooing. Such adventures as
this last would then be impossible. The fair
Esther would have a dominant, sensible person
at her side ; besides, matrimony tames even the
wildest spirits.

To Graham the vision of Esther, as she
stood up in the carriage fired with generous
indignation  fearless, undaunted, eloquent 
seemed like that of an inspired priestess
denouncing the base impulse of a faithless folk.
Beautiful as he had always known her, opportunity
had not hitherto afforded him the chance
of realising how noble, how almost sublime,

ALONE, 5

that beauty might become under transcendent
emotion. Had the people turned on her and
rent her, had they flung stones and filth at her
in their brute rage, as he would not have been
surprised to see them do, he felt that her
action would have still been the same. Beauty
such as hers could scarcely in itself touch the
multitude. But what her rare and radiant
loveliness might have failed to effect, the noble
rage, the impulsive courage, the generous scorn
and indignation of her words had, as though by
magic, accomplished. The colour had risen to
her pale cheeks, the veil that she had unconsciously
torn from her face showed her eyes
glowing and flashing with eager emotion ; her
attitude, the movement of her arms, the hand
she had held up in warning, the very changeful
tones and varying accents of her voice, all
were inspired by intense feeling, and marked
that measured grace, and perfect harmony and
balance, which when caught and eternalised,
enchants the world.' She was as one transfigured.
She might decry herself, make little
of the occasion ; blush and disclaim any merit
other than that of presence of mind ; ridicule
the notion of courage ; but the picture impressed
on Graham's memory was one of great

6 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

nobility, harmony, and beauty ; and had she
failed, he told himself it would have been the
same. And yet, so often as he mentally recalled
the scene. Something came between him
and his remembrance of it ; a Something vague,
impossible, disquieting, touched with the influence
of other times and associations, which
refused to be reduced to a concrete shape, but
floated dimly and mistily on the confines of
memory, like the sentiment of pre-existence,
tormenting us by its elusive intimations.

Bianca, who was glad of any subject that
dispensed her from writing about herself, sent
a whole history of the scene in the faubourg to
her mother. ' Mr. Graham shares, as hero,
with the heiress, as heroine, in the notoriety of
the moment. It is said that the people, who
recognised in her and Countess Helena
Perowska their greatest benefactors, attempted
to take the horses out of the carriage next
time they drove through that quarter of the
town. Indeed, their acclamations were so loud
that the ladies were afraid the horses would
take fright. As for Mr. Graham, though he
does not know a word of Euss, he too is quite
a god with the populace. They now say he
did a generous thing in endeavouring to save a

ALONE. 7

poor woman. If she had been rich, there would
have been in their eyes no merit in saving her.
They even forget that the woman is a Jewess
in their admiration of the Englishman's bravery.
People say that the heiress must now take Mr.
Graham, or decide in favour of Lord Dovedale,
whose aunt is here on a visit at the embassy.
Lord Dovedale is living at an hotel, his
diplomatic duties having ceased long ago, and
it is said that the young lady must soon makeup
her mind, as old Lady Eockminster has
declared she will not leave St. Petersburg
without her nephew ! But you know how
idle people turn everything into ridicule. And
wee are very idle here, for of gossip and making
reports, with Eussians there is no end.'

Poor Hero, sitting by her desolate hearth,
never doubted but that her reign was at an
end, and she was frank enough to own that she
was rightly served. She would have sacrificed
the man she loved, to her child. Her child
had sacrificed her. Graham was right. He was
certainly unconscious of her faithlessness, and
now he would never know it ; but, not so much
as in thought, had she a right to reproach him.

During this dreary winter Fitz was the only
person who seemed to think lie needed cheers

AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

ing. Then, when his duties recalled him to
Oxford, he, in departing, asked a favour of her.

My mother is altered of late,' he said ;
and I am anxious about her. Would you look
her up sometimes and tell me, truly, what you
think of her ? She lives too much alone. You
know she never cared to make friends. If you
could only persuade her to drive out for an
hour or so every day, it woidd do her good,
and break the monotony of her life.'

And Hero, to whom Fitz had become a sort
of providence, readily promised. She was
thankful for anything in the guise of duty to
others, that should severer from her self. Her
existence was evidently doomed to be henceforth
in the shade. But she could strive to
encourage others to crawl into the sunshine, if
for them sunshine should be feasible.

She expected no thanks ; she did not even
expect civility, much less kindness. But if Fitz
desired it she would go to see Mrs. Fitzgerald.

She sent her name up, and was admitted.

What have you come for ? ' asked . the
terrible old woman.

She was sitting nth a shawl wrapped round
her head, and reminded Hero of the wolf in
little ' Need Ending Hood.' Her face was very

ALONE. , 9-

long, her nose pointed, and lier eyes looked
alarmingly suspicious and fierce.

'To see you.'

I am not much to look at.'

Fitz would like to know how you are.'

So you are to act the spy ? '

He does not like leaving you.'

Then why does he ? '.

His duties, I suppose, force him to go.'

He need have no duties.'

'A man without occupation is a wretched
creature.'

My son is much obliged to you.'

It is very good of you to let me in,' said
Hero, determined to be amiable.

'It is. But I may as well tell you at
once that I have made my will, and shall not
alter it.'

That is a good thing. One should always
make one's will, they tell me, with all one's
faculties about one.'

You seem to know a great deal about it,'
said the old woman suspiciously. 'Legacy-hunters
needn't come after me.'

That is well.'

Of course it is well. Other old women
keep toadies. Or they dole out a pittance to

lo AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

some poor relation that they may have a victim
to tyrannise over.'

Or, perhaps, a grateful heart to regret
them.'

Stuff, they want flattery. I could have
dozens of people toadying me if I cared for
it ; but I don't.

I can well believe that,' said Hero, whose
heart was softened towards this desolate woman,
boasting of the attention she could buy ; ' with
a son like Fitz you need care for nothing.'

That is exactly what I say. Not but that
Fitz is quite wrong if he imagines I cannot
change my mind. Lots of people would be
glad to step into his shoes and jump at the
money he despises.'

By which Hero could see that Fitz had
resented the threats employed as an argument.

For Heaven's sake do what you like with
your money, mother,' he had said to her more
than once. ' I cannot love you more because
you have so many hundreds or thousands a
year. Love cannot be bought, though flattery
may. I love you and value you, because I am
your son. I have as much to eat and drink,
and as good clothes to wear, as a man needs ;
more I do not desire. Leave your money to

ALONE. II

whomsoever you like ; I shall not dispute your
will ; only do believe that if I try to please you,
it is because I desire to make you happy, not
for anything I may get out of you. That may
do for strangers, for the people you call toadies ;
but not for your son, not for your own flesh
and blood. If I offend you I am very sorry, but
I should have to offend you all the same,
though all the gold of Ophir lay heaped on one
side and destitution on the other.'

To him it seemed most pitiful that the
simplest act of kindly feeling should be attributed
by his mother to mercenary motives, and
that she could not even absolve her own son
from having interested views. He would fain
have seen her surrounded by friends, the
generous patron of young people, who might
be made happy by such trifling pleasures, and
whose cheerful chatter would bring a sense of
life and happiness to her declining years ; but
her bitter tongue drove all but the interested
away from her. If, as seemed likely, he should
never marry, the house would grow yearly
more desolate ; for Mrs. Fitzgerald had never
cared to win friends by acts of simple kindness
and good-fellowship, such as are needful to
many natures ; and had estranged most of her

12 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

acquaintances by the ruthlessness with which
she rode rouse-shod over their little weaknesses,
and inoffensive beliefs and affections.

Do you want anything of me ? ' she asked,
as Hero rose to go.

Her visitor might have answered : * A little
affection ; ' but she shrank from the cynical
retort that would inevitably follow.

Nothing,' she answered, smiling.

Nor that girl of yours ? If she had
played her cards better she   '

Bianca has even returned me a sum of
money which I had set apart for her use.'

You must be very rich.'

'I am.' Poor woman ! and she was starving
for a word of love.

Then why don't you live in a better
house ? My coachman pretended not to know
the way when I told him to drive past your
door one day.'

I am only rich in the sense of wanting no
more than I have,' Hero answered. ' I have no
means of spending the money I have.'

Then why do you go on as if you were a
pauper ? Though I suppose Owen can spend any
amount for you, unless he's very much changed.'

'I should not care to have the smartest

ALONE. 13

house in town, in the best neighbourhood.
That is what I call being rich  or very poor
when one is utterly indifferent.'

'And yet you let that girl go out as a
-governess ? '

'Nay,' said Hero. 'I neither let  nor
hindered. There was no reason, except that
she wished it, for Bianca's leaving home ; and
there is less reason even than there was for her
staying away, except that she wishes it. We are
rather lonely women, aunt, both you and I.'

Stuff ! ' said Mrs. Fitzgerald.

Her conscience was not altogether easy.
She remembered, with a twinge, all the nasty
things she had said to estrange the daughter
from her mother ; how she had tried to lower
and be-little Hero in Bianca's eyes, by making
her out a hypocrite and a tyrant. It had
amused her to fight and quarrel with the girl :
she knew that it annoyed Fitz.

See what a little spitfire she is 1 ' she said
to him over and over again ; ' and how
shamefully badly brought up ! To think
how blind and stupid men are ; and you,
who vaunted them to me as a model mother and
daughter ! '

Bianca's indifference to Fitz was her one

14 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

redeeming point in his mother's eyes. She was
furious that he wished the girl to go home to
her mother, and she resented the proposition
as a personal injury. Bianca had never written
to her since leaving. Curiosity, Mrs. Fitzgerald's
second ruling passion, prompted her to make
inquiries, but even of Fitz she would ask
nothing, and pride kept her silent.

Good-bye, again,' said Hero.

But her aunt found it more convenient to
turn her back on the proffered hand, and on
pretext of ringing the bell ignored Hero's adieu.

I shouldn't worry myself about the young
hussy, if I were you,' she shouted to her visitor,
now half-way downstairs ; thus firing a Parthian
shot after her, for the servant's edification.

But Hero's life had shrunk within such
narrow boundaries, that she returned to Portland
Place within a week, glad to have even the
semblance of a duty to fulfil. A feeling of
intense pity filled her, as she sat patiently
listening to Mrs. Fitzgerald's monologues, for
such the attempts at conversation usually
became, after a faint struggle on Hero's side to
keep the dialogue going.

With a son of whom any mother might
have been proud, the hard old woman was yet

ALONE. 15

utterly miserable. None the less miserable
because she denied the fact even to herself.
Jealousy of everyone and everything he liked
made her rude to his friends, just as it had
caused her to insult Dr. Fitzgerald's patients,
and had lost him many a good pratique during
his lifetime. If Hero, thinking to please her,
spoke kindly of Fitz, his views, opinions, or
recorded experiences  ' Oh, I know all about
that,' closed the conversation with a steel snap.
She considered it an impertinence on Hero's
part to know, or pretend to know, anything
about her son of which she, his mother, was not
aware. She would talk of her own grievances,
the peculations of her servants, the dishonesty
of her tradespeople, the expense of her establishment,
the indecent demands made upon her
purse by the clergy, the untruthfulness of her
gas meter, the exorbitant poor's rates, the
iniquity of turnpikes, the abomination of
Christmas-boxes, the encroachments of work-people,
the inebriety of her laundress, and a
hundred other topics of the kind ; but let Hero
try to change the conversation to some anecdote,
or allusion to less personal matters, the formula,
Oh, I know all about that,' cut short her
interpolations.

i6 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

She suspected Hero of corresponding with
her son, and watched her narrowly, laying
conversational pitfalls to betray the confession.
But Hero scrupulously avoided saying a word
that might compromise Fitz. If he had not
told his mother that they corresponded, he had
certainly some good reason for his reticence.
In spite of herself, Mrs. Fitzgerald's hard and
bitter method of existence was modified by
Hero's visits. Something certainly ailed the
elder woman, though she suffered no inquiries
to be made, and concealed her sufferings. The
most affectionate solicitude would have met
with the rudest and roughest of rebuffs. 'I wish
people would leave me to live in peace, and to
die in peace. They won't get rid of me any
the sooner for making a fuss.' So Hero had to
submit to being told that the coachman complained
his horses were worked to death, that
she cost Mrs. Fitzgerald a stable-boy, that she
wore out the tires and axles, and injured the
springs of the carriage, all because her vanity
led her to prefer driving in another person's
carriage, at that other person's expense, to the
far healthier alternative of walking at her own.
There was, to her, something intensely pathetic
in the sight of the ailing woman getting no

ALONE. 17

pleasure, no profit, no refreshment, out of her
wealth. But if these might be purchased at
the cost of her own personal annoyance, Hero
was ready to make the trifling sacrifice with
cheerfulness. Many an afternoon she sat
beside the bitter tongued, solitary old woman,
her heart overflowing with a pitiful patience she
dared not show, and of which silence was the
only outward expression. She was doing her
best, little as it was, for Fitz, in bearing gently
with the one human being whose condition
seemed to ask any service at her hands.

Life, to Hero, had become phantasmagoric.
She saw ' men as trees walking.' She worked
to no definite point ; she awaited no special
issue. People married, and had children
born to them, and died ; time rolled on, the
seasons changed, but a sameness that nothing
could alter had settled down upon her
monotonous existence. Even her beloved
piano lost its former charm, and spoke no
longer the thoughts it had been wont to utter.
Still young, according to the Psalmist's standard
of existence, she lived the life of an old woman :
grey, negative, void, null. A strange mood
of settled acceptance settled down upon her.
There was no rebellion, scarcely regret. She

VOL. III. c

1 8 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

simply went forward on a self-ordained daily
routine, punctual, accurate, like a well-made
machine ; mechanical, unswerving. These were
her daylight hours. But, when her modest
maidens had extinguished the last light, and
the little household was dismissed for the night,
in face of the hours of wakefulness yet to be
confronted Hero's fortitude sometimes forsook
her. Then, with passionate sobs and tears,
she Avould call upon her dear, dead mother ;
then she would realise the blessed shade of love
wherewith she had formerly been overshadowed,
the gracious fruits, the fragrant flowers, the rest
and refreshment awaiting her after the labour
and heat of the day, but now, alas ! for ever
lost. With what agonised yearning and hopeless
regret she lamented the past, with what
passionate pleadings she stretched out her
longing arms across the gulf of separation,
across the yawning emptiness and darkness of
the night !

Rebellion had ceased ; the Irrevocable cannot
be argued ; and, as the word, ever recurring
with clock-like precision, struck a knell
upon her heart, she mechanically re-echoed its
merciless monotone as she murmured the refrain,
Alone ! Alone ! '

Chapter XXXII.

BIDING HER TIME.

The heroes of the World, the men who have
changed the whole frame and state of things,
who have affected times and peoples, and, in
their own persons, have caused revolutions,
rendering null and void all that has gone before,
may be counted upon the fingers of one's right
hand.

Great captains, men of war, leaders of
armies, and gainers or losers of battles, whether
of the ancient or modern world, can claim no
such distinction. Of the very greatest victory,
after a lapse of years, but little remains, and
that little is local. Oftentimes the triumph
proves, in the long run, to have been but
temporary, the disaster permanent, the cost
out of all proportion to the result, the thing
clearly better left alone than accomplished. In
effect, all wars are but follies of the first


20 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

magnitude. The clash of arms, the gutter of
accoutrements, the clangour of trumpets, the
floating plumes, the tramp of armed men, the
pricking of horsemen on the plain, the waving
of banners, the shouts and hurrahs, the cheers
and enthusiasm, only cover the ghastly pageant
of Death, made more horrible to all thoughtful
men by the contrast with all this empty glare
and senseless glitter. It is ' the red-coat bully
in his boots, that hides the march of men from
us ; ' and the world is growing daily more and
more to ' hate him and his trade,' despite the
periodical intoxication which his plumes and
spurs seem still able to produce.

These truisms, from which men turn impatiently,
cannot be too often insisted on.
Certain convictions are day by day, ignore them
as we will, silently gathering strength. And,
though thinking minds may acknowledge that
there is no present hope of seeing standing
armies abolished, nor war declared to be, as it is,
an anachronism, yet civilisation, the advancement
of learning, the spread of education, the
growth of liberal ideas, are slowly and silently,
steadily and surely, tending in that direction
and to that end. The dreamers and dilettantists
who are now passed by, with a smile of indulging

HER TIME. 21

gent pity, or acknowledged from the seat of
the scornful with a silent sneer as impracticable,
futile, and of no account, will some day be
recognised as the pioneers of that later, and
more beneficent, dispensation, when we shall
have ceased to regard ' men with muskets,'
and ' caps of hair,' as the only tangible relics
of heroism, left to an unheroic age. If we
dispense with heroes, in the narrow, professional,
and military sense of the word, we
shall find but few who truly merit to be so
called, or can justly claim a place in the first
rank, as influencing not only their own time
and people, but humanity at large in all
.ages.

First, and with all due reverence let it bespoken,
men must acknowledge Him who,
born a poor Jewish carpenter, the associate of
humble fishermen, without so much as whereto
lay His head, preached the new doctrine of
mercy, of peace and good-will ; of gentleness and
brotherhood, in place of the old hard Mosaic
law of an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth,
or the Pagan doctrine of just reprisals. Beside
the warmth and sweet humanity of this teaching
all the wisdom of all the ancients sounds
hard, and cold, and lifeless. That gentle

22 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

message, proclaimed on the shores of GaHlee
to the waiting nations, and expiated on Calvary
(the humble heroic life closed by the humiliating
heroic death) was destined to conquer conquerors,
to crush kings, to lighten the darkness
of the Pagan world, and to ameliorate the
sufferings of humanity for ever.

Mahomet, too, was a hero, with a message
that brought life and nationality to the people
he addressed, and taught them truths which
must endure, because they are essential and
eternal. No Christian martyr ever stood more
sublimely by his faith than the Moslem by his ;
from Delhi to Granada a devout belief in God
inspires the dusky millions who recognise a
Theocracy which many have dreamed, but
which it was given to Mahomet alone to establish.
The Mussulman of to-day is as fervent in
faith as were the primitive Christians, the pious
Puritans, the Pilgrim Fathers. He goes into
battle with the old war-cry on his lips, ' Allah
il Allah ! ' and, as Mr. Carlyle says, ' This night
at Cairo, the watchman, when he cries " Who
goes ? " will hear, along with the reply of the
wayfarer, " There is no god but God." '

He too  who out of an obscure, persecuted,
nomadic people, made a nation  was poor

BIDING HER TIME. 23

humble, and of no consideration. His life 
like that other and greater Life  passed in
the roughest frugality, open to all men in its
poverty and labour. Not invested with any of
the prestige of privacy, not pretending to
mystery, not flattered by powerful adherents
nor followed by the frivolous for the sake of
notoriety ; and yet when the day and the hour
came, speaking* freely to the astonished Persian
king, Choses, and to the perplexed Greek
Emperor Heraclitus, in cloak of his own patching,
and ' shoes of his own clouding,' a fearless,
God-imbued man, with a message for the waiting
millions.

Such, too, was Luther, the obscure monk
hidden away in the cloistered cell of a silent
monastery. The time was ripe, the bolt fell,
and at his feet the corpse of his friend Alexis,
struck to death by the electric flash, revealed
to him in one moment the Nothingness of things.
God, Truth, Eternity spoke to him from those
blackened ashes, from that shrivelled sinuila-
cum, a second since a man made in his Maker's
image, his friend, Alexis. The poor old mining
labourer his father, the patient humble housewife
his mother, could not dream that their boy,
glad to sing carols for charity from door to

24 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL,

door, to beg his commons of well-to-do neighbours,
to turn his hand to any chance job that
offered, was destined to break the power of
Eome, to humble the pride of the Papal see, to
make princes, potentates, and powers tremble
on their thrones. Not for Germany alone had
the iconoclastic Erfurt monk a message. The
Augustine friar became the high-priest of a
protesting Christendom, ripe for rebellion
against the scandal of Papal venality. Leo
the Tenth, a sort of elegant sixteenth-century
Gallic, was as tolerant in his answers  when
the fussy churchmen by whom he was surrounded
came buzzing about his ears with the
tale of Luther's delinquencies  as was Pilate to
the clamorous Jews. But after a time the Pagan-popedom
took alarm, and that crisis ensued
which showed the world that Truth, the eternal,
could defy temporalities, and take up the
gauntlet of the Papal bull  flung in defiance in
Luther's face  whereof the cracking parchment,
burning before the gates of Wittenberg,
went up with a merry sound, threatening to set
all Europe ablaze !

Out of that bonfire arose many things not
destined altogether to die out in smoke. The
English Puritanism that planted new colonies ;

BIDING HER TIME. 25

English Oliver and his Ironsides ; English freedom,
with its Parliaments and right of protestation
; the Americas, the Edict of Nantes,
the French Revolution, and the germ of more
things than can be here enumerated, whose
genesis we, at this present, unless we are
wilfully blind, must both witness and acknowledge.


Gutenberg, Must, and Scoffer (whether we
regard them as three, or take the trio as a
whole, each necessary to the completion of the
other), and our own English Caxton, may certainly
claim to be of the select company of
men with a message to the World at large, not
to their own, or kindred nations only. The
prophets of religion, perforce, proselytised as
they went, calling on men to hear the truths
they proclaimed. But with the new birth of
modern learning, men from afar exhorted their
prophets to speech, and cried to their teachers for
more ; and the books, as they fell from the press
of the Westminster ' Almonry ' were caught
up by eager hands, snatching greedily at every
fresh tome as a boon and a blessing. The
incalculable, unending, ever-growing results of
type-printing, who shall foretell them? who
predict their ultimate effects? who prophecy

26 A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

their final triumphs and perfections ? Are not
the most brilliant victories that were ever won
(even from the general's point of view), mere
nothings in comparison with the conquests of
learning: and letters? And is not the local
heroism of the soldier (good in its way, as the
expression of loyalty, obedience, and truth), buta
small and poor thing, limited in effect, and
unfruitful in result, as compared with the
glorious acquisitions secured to us by the peaceful
arts, by the work of these Teachers of men ?
It is in the nature of things that the limitation
which time and place set upon men and
their works should circumscribe the circle of
Heroes, in the sense here aimed at, as men with
messages to Humanity. So much necessarily
remains local; so much is necessarily adapted
only to the man's own country and clime.
Shakspeare, in this sense, is no Hero. Nor is
Dante ; for Shakspeare would mean nothing to
the Turk, nor Dante to the Cossack. The
Warwickshire peasant had his message, and,
spoke it, though no man was ever less of a
conscious preacher than he. So had Dante, the
melancholy apologist of Mediaeval religion ; so
had Homer, the ' blind old man of Scio's rocky
isle.' But though Greece is dead, and Homer

BIDING HER TIME. 27

yet speaks to us ; thoiigli Dante has rejoined
the shade of Virgil, and his written words still
alternately glow and whirl in fiery circles, or
appal by their depths of gloom and profound
despair ; though Stratford sees many pilgrims,
and Shakspeare is jealously claimed by every
man and woman of Saxon speech, yet we
cannot pretend that even to these men it was
given to change the face of Humanity as did
the message of the carpenter's Son ; as did the
Prophet's worship ; as did the obscure Augustine
monk's protest when he burnt the papal
parchment ; as did Caxton's printing-press, or
the Mainz men's chap-books, without the shedding
of a drop of blood ! And thus it happens
that, if we run through a string of names recalling
the great ones of the earth, those who
may claim to have changed the pre-existing
order of things becomes infinitesimally small.
Talent, and even Genius, we are forced to
confess, have for the most part but a local
influence and limited power, and dwarfed and
diminished by the towering forms which Imagination
exorcises, they pass in pigmy procession
across the Ages.

In these latter days when, as the nations
have sunk into an apathy of luxury  classed by

28 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

a misnomer as ' civilisation '  enthusiasm seems
to have died out, a new sort of unrecognised, not
to be defined religion has sprung up, affording an
outlet for the more ardent spirits still capable
of aspiration.

In the ' enthusiasm of Humanity,' all sorts
and conditions of men, who find it impossible
to pledge themselves to the faith of special
dogma, to subscribe defined doctrine, to swear
to any hard and fast articles of orthodoxy,
recognise and welcome the common scope
offered to the spirit burning within them, in the
grand ideal of the universal Brotherhood of
Mankind. In no former Age, was humanity
ever so much, or so universally busied, with the
concerns of humanity ; never were so many
hospitals, orphanages, refuges, asylums, built
and dedicated to the service of the poor ; never
were such vast sums collected or dispensed, independently
of race, faith, or centre, for sufferers
from plague, pestilence, and famine. Some
give of their activity, some of their sloth, some
to be praised of men, some because everyone
else does the same, some as an expiation, some
as an offering, some as a sacrifice, some of their
poverty, some of their abundance, so many

BIDING HER TIME. 29.

men so many minds, only that all are agreed
on the obligation of Gifts.

Christian Socialism, drawn from New Testament
maxims, is twisted into the wildest of
theories ; the precepts with which every page of
the Gospels is thickly strewn are in the mouth
of the extremest levellers and propagandists ;
and every fanatical regicide believes himself to
be the possible Deliverer of the oppressed, the
potential Saviour of the expectant Peoples.

A stone laid upon a piece of steel, may
cause an Empire to crumble to ruin ; a morsel
of dynamite, demolish a dynasty ; a pistol-shot
proclaim a republic.

What wonder if the annals of Nihilism are
charged with a romantic charm for its votaries,
replete as their pages are with stories of stern
resolve, unflinching devotion, and a high
courage which nothing can intimidate, and a
secrecy of which no torment can break the inflexible
silence? To each member of the
secret Society the thought is possible, ' I may
change the destinies of my nation ; I may
win the benediction of my contemporaries ; I
may confer happiness on multitudes, and as a
figure in history, for all time, tower high above
the " state of kings ; " a giant of Truth whose

30 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

shadow, projected far into the future, hides in
befitting obscurity the pigmy Caesar at its
base.'

The Countess Perowsky, after her adventure
with Esther Eodostamos, pursued her usual
course of Hfe, and received her friends with
unvarying courtesy, though she was fully aware
of great and anxious undertakings being swiftly
and secretly organised, in which she might
be called upon to take an active, prominent,
and responsible part. The strange compound
of fanaticism and revenge working within her
never permitted her to falter or hesitate in the
execution of her project. When the time came
as come it must  for action, she told herself
that if weighed in the exacting balance that would
test her faith she must not be found wanting.
Sweet, soft, and altogether enchanting as
by universal consent she was allowed to be, an
implacable purpose fired her outraged soul to
signal vengeance. The thought of that treble
treachery, the treachery of a lover and a sister
with a sister, the treachery of broken vows,
of vows broken in absence, nerved her spirit to
unflinching resolve, and condemned all possible
hesitation, even in thought, as a base and contemptible
weakness.

BIDING HER TIME. 31

That popular frenzy whose inception dates,
in its later development, from Germany, fostered
by the superstitious, illiterate, and low-born
secular clergy of Russia, and whose outrages
will seem to later historians an incredible anachronism
 the Judenhetze  had not as yet
made itself felt in Russia, otherwise than by
such isolated instances as that of poor 
s misadventure ; and yet Helena's heart
misgave her.

Popular tumults where the last sort of demonstration
that ' the Society ' desired ; nothing
must attract the attention of the authorities in
that direction. The people must, at all costs,
for the present be kept quiet ; soothed into submission,
or threatened into silence. She would
certainly warn Esther to be careful and to bid
Chelanska also take heed unto her ways ; for,
although there might be nominal justice for
every citizen in St. Petersburg, yet she knew
that in Russia the Jew was still accursed, forbidden
to live or trade in the cities unless
'protected,' treated like an unclean beast,
driven back to the filthy Ghetto which is his
lair, tolerated only on sufferance, and liable to
a thousand petty insults and injuries, against
which no appeal would serve him with his

32 A UT Caesar a UT NIHIL.

oppressors, since they were all offered in the
easy name of religion.

On the other hand, her affiliation to that
Society  which was pleading at the cost of life
itself, for Eeform as against the tyranny of
Custom  had opened her eyes to the fact that
it included, in all its ranks, a vast number of
Jewish members, and not a few Jewish women.
Born with an immemorial inheritance of hatred
in their hearts, endowed with a birthright of
misery and shame, hounded to earth by the
persecutions of petty officials and by the ignorance
of a superstitious populace (the tools of a
priesthood scarcely less ignorant), it was to be
foreseen that the fund of prejudice and hate,
gathering and accumulating secretly, would,
sooner or later, find expression in some exemplary
act of resentment on the part of the
persecuted. Amongst the more educated of
the Jewish women, a spirit of cold, yet implacable,
vengeance might, by those who cared to
note the signs of the times, be observed ; and
so often as, in the exercise of her religious
duties, the Countess Perowsky was called upon
to listen to, or read, the histories of those
Biblical heroines to whom no deed of vengeance
seems to have come amiss, she was forced to

BIDING HER TIME. 2>'i

recognise that the type was not extinct, but, on
the contrary, capable of terrible reprisals when
the day of reckoning should dawn, and centuries
of contumely and degradation be expiated
by the careless and comparatively innocent
legatees of brutal ignorance, vain superstition,
and misused power.

In every emeute in every list of political
prisoners, in every class of female students, a
number of Jewish names might be recognised ;
and many names, adopted for convenience by
Hebrew men and women, concealed the extent
of the contingent supplied by members of the
Jewish nationality or, more correctly, race.

They  at any rate the poorer amongst them
had everything to gain, and nothing to lose,
by a general upheaval. In the present state of
things, where everything was still a matter of
privilege ' or ' concession ' to the Jewish individual,
there could be no hope of any liberal
construction being placed on laws hampering
their community ; and although any outspoken
apprehension to the effect that the inexhaustible
stock of patience and submission which (to the
unprejudiced and gentle-hearted) is so pathetic
a characteristic of this remarkable race, might
come to an end, was safe to be met with a

VOL. III. D

34 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

shrug of contempt, as who should say ' These
slaves have not the spirit of curs yet they who
had looked behind the scenes, and were open to
conviction, were forced to recognise a danger
which their opponents would not allow.

Chelanska obeyed her mistress, and lodged
no complaint with the authorities as to her
maltreatment. She kept away from the synagogue,
and, as she never referred to the outrage,
it might have been believed the harsh
treatment she had unreservedly received, was
forgotten. She was faithful, humble, and secret.
Eut none the less she was only biding her time.



Chapter XXXIII.

THE MASKED BALL.

Masked balls have always been popular where
Court intrigue gives a large margin for heart-burnings
and jealousies, injuries to be avenged,
spites to be gratified, ambitions to be furthered,
love-affairs to be disguised. But of late years,
in St. Petersburg, what virtually amounted to
a prohibition had been laid upon this class of
entertainment. It was said, in Society, that
the danger of the Ispravnik circulating, either
ostensibly or secretly, on festive occasions,
was greatly augmented where the mask and
domino afforded a safe and plausible disguise
for these much-dreaded agents of an uneasy
Government.

Since, at a bat masque perfect liberty, not
to say license, of speech is accorded to all, and
no one may resent being accosted, or refuse an

D 2

36 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

answer to any question within the ordinary
bounds of conversation, the danger of intrusion
by political spies was felt to be greater than
elsewhere. One remedy, indeed, existed, and
had been adopted at Court. At the grand
masked ball given on S. Sylvester's Eve, or
rather (for the Eussian kalendar shifts our
festivals) on New Year's Eve, 0. S., every guest
in the Winter Palace was expected, as the last
stroke of twelve chimed from the clocks of the
capital, to remove his or her mask, and in a
general ' tumult of acclaim ' to welcome aloud
the entrance of the New Year, but a moment
since yet upon the threshold, but now a real
Presence, for good or for evil, amongst the
myriad throng of guests.

Yet, since to unmask at command and, nolens
volens, reveal one's identity at a given moment,
is evidently to neutralise the chief, if not the
only, charm of the masked ball, it was not surprising
that the alternative found no popularity.
How threaten, intimidate, cajole, flatter, abuse,
scarify, lampoon, mock or jest at one's ease if
the indiscretion be forthwith revealed ? Such
a consummation, necessarily, silences the tongue,
deadens the wit, lames the sarcasm, and places
restrictions on the malice of the maskers, since

THE MASKED BALL. yj

they know beforehand that, at the stroke of
midnight, the mask falls and the disguise is at
an end. Why assume either the one or the
other ?

The comparatively innocent excitement of
intrigue-king one's friends by costumes, kept
strictly secret, falls flat in comparison with the
pasquinades which, under other circumstances,
might fearlessly be circulated amongst the
crowd ; and if, on the one hand, the Ispravnik
had found that the masked ball afforded dangerous
immunities to those most to be dreaded.
Society, on the other, had ceased to care for an
amusement which either included too many
dangers, or lost its chiefs charm by a concession
to the uncongenial circumstances.

The New Year's masked ball at Court had
been declared a very tame affair, and people
openly and angrily affirmed that the raison d'etre
of a hal masque was at an end, since, after an
hour or two, all disguise was, at command, to
be thrown off, and the responsibility of words,
spoken in jest or otherwise, thrown upon the
speaker. Nevertheless, so great had been the
gloom of the season hitherto, that St. Petersburg
society enthusiastically welcomed the report
that the Countess Helena Perowska was

38 AUT CSAR AUl NIHIL.

about to send out invitations for a masked ballon
a grand scale.

Eemember,' Mellin said to her, ' we must
have got everything over before midnight, lest
the unmasking be demanded. Then it will
be of no consequence. By these means we
can hold a conference of much larger magnitude
than would be prudent or practicable
elsewhere. Out of your four or five hundred
guests it would be impossible for any spy to
observe the temporary absence of some thirty
or forty during part of the evening. The
crowd circulating through the different saloons
would make it a matter of impossibility for
any amount of police agents to number them
or miss them, and after midnight, even if there
be some suspicious physiognomies in the crowd,
no one could say that they had not been in the
rooms all night. Given the mask and domino,
and not even the presence of the Emperor
himself could be suspected.'

Ah ! therein lies the very danger that
weighs upon me. If any enemy should introduce
himself to our secret conference unawares ? '

How is that possible . The secret room
is only approachable through your bedroom on
the one hand, through Count Perowsky's study

THE MASKED Ballon



the other. Your faithful Ivan has the
sign and countersign : to your own two personal
maids you have given strict orders not to
leave the ladies' temporary dressing-room on
the opposite side of the building. Chelanska,
whose attachment to her mistress is proverbial,
and on whom we can rely implicitly, will be in
your boudoir with her mistress's pelisse, on the
pretext that if her lady, not being well, should
call for her to go home, she will not have the
trouble of seeking in the general cloak-room
for her wraps. No one can reach your bedroom
without passing through the boudoir.
Chelanska has the sign and countersign.
Addressed to the initiated, it means nothing ;
but answered correctly, as it can only be by
the initiated, it gives the entree to our conference.
Believe me, nothing can be safer.'

Bianca, to whom, as was natural, a masked
ball was a novelty of the most exciting order,
and whose becoming costume, provided by the
Countess's liberality, might have made even a
girl otherwise innocent of vanity, count the
hours until the signal for unmasking should
allow her to score her honours, was far less
preoccupied with the possible success of her
toilette than with a project, wildly imagined

40 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

and ardently nursed by her since the ball had
been first discussed. In French or Italian she
would have an opportunity of speaking, undiscovered,
to Mellin. Her voice she could
disguise, for her rare musical talents gave her
facilities in this matter unsuspected by her
friends, and undreamed of by Mellin. Even
German she might attempt ; for out of the
four or five hundred guests assembled there
would certainly be some whose accent might
be as imperfect as her own. Her slender
figure, being disguised by a voluminous domino,
she could add three or four inches to her
height without anyone suspecting what she
owed to her chaussure, and thus her very
stature would be misleading

But how to recognise Mellin ? He, too
would wear a domino ; and, silent by habit, he
would, on an occasion like the present, be
scarcely likely to indulge, of choice, in voluntary
loquacity.

She was made aware, and that as a matter
of right, with the secret meeting to be held by
the Brotherhood, and her heart beat high at
the thought of participating in what was
acknowledged by all concerned, to be a most
momentous seance at a most critical juncture.

THE MASKED BALL. 41

Delegates who could not have ventured to
brave the Stanovie by entering Count Michael
Perowsky's hotel in their ordinary costume in
broad daylight could, in mask and domino,
safely run the risk. Men whose countenances
were circulating by means of photography in
all the capitals of Europe, and who were as
well known to the Eussian police as the members
of his own family to each individual spy,
could fearlessly confront the most practised
mouchard safe to elude the vigilance of the
secret force. Disguise, generally felt to be, in
itself, a dangerous and compromising expedient,
is undlhngly resorted to by the graver and
more cautious members of secret societies.
But a disguise, openly assumed, and frankly
claiming to be a disguise, loses half its ridicule
and all its risk under authorised conditions.

What costumes are you and Mile. Martello
going to wear ? ' Count Perowsky asked of his
wife, as they sat sipping tea in the late afternoon
preceding the ball.

You must not ask indiscreet questions.*

'Surely, Helena Paulovna, a man may
know his wife's dress ? '

There is no " surely," Michael Nicolai
when it is a question of a hal costume.

42 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

And, besides, Mile. Martello would not thank
me for betraying lier secrets.'

Bianca, who was present, looked up
suddenly, as though about to say something ;
but, upon second thoughts, she remained silent.

Count Michael glanced at his wife, and a
cloud came over his face. He was remarked
to be oftener at her tea-table than formerly ;
indeed, St. Petersburg society had begun to
jest and gossip upon his attentions to his
lawful spouse, as entertaining and at the
same time rather hopeless. The Perowskys
were spoken of as a model couple ; it was said
that their romance was yet to begin, and the
situation was novel and exciting.

For my part I shall be heartily glad when
all is well over,' said the Countess, with meaning,
as she rose and moved towards the door.

And yet you are not wont to be nervous.
Your courage surely does not fail ? '

'My courage? No, Michael Mcolaievitch.
But this is no ordinary occasion. Personally,
I live prepared ; but it would add a bitterness
to death to know I had left the mission of my
life unfulfilled. Not that I am thinking of
myself. I think of others. I should not like
disaster to befall any guests to whom our roof

THE MASKED BALL. 43

is supposed to offer the guarantee and shelter
of honest hospitality.'

A man can only give what he has,' replied
her husband ; ' no responsibility in this instance,
or in the sense you mean, Helena
Paulovna, attaches to my reception of certain
persons. But this lugubrious tone is not very
appropriate to a festive occasion. Mile. Martello
will gather anything but cheerful ideas of
our social institutions ; ' and again he looked at
Bianca.

If she observed it she made no sign, and
in a minute or two she quitted the room.

Left alone with her husband, Helena
Perowska glanced at him for a moment in
silence, and, returning to her place, sat down
again as though to say something special. All
unconscious of her gaze, he continued in self-absorbed
silence whilst the cloud grew and
gathered upon his brow.

'amon amir she said at length, in her most
conciliatory tones.

He started like a person caught unawares,
but beyond a change of attitude and expression,
sufficiently indicative of attention, made no
reply.

My friend, do not mistake me ; forgive me

44 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

if I am mistaken, but it seems to me that
you are drifting unawares into a blunder.'

What bender ? '

That young girl who has just left the
room is a child ; she is a stranger in a strange
land ; she is my guest, in a sense my child  our
guest, OUT child, Michael Mcolaievitch.'

Well ? '

Well, hospitality, duty, womanly feeling
demand that I should protect her.'

It seems to me that she is very well able
to protect herself.'

 Ah, have you tried ? '

I thought you were only suspecting me of
a blunder ; it seems Helena Paulovna, that you
were accusing me of a crime.'

Ah ! now I am relieved. That is nobly
spoken though disguised in jest, Michael
Mcolaievitch. It is you that have said it.'

But,' her husband went on, ' if it were so,
you would be the last person who had a right
to complain.'

'For myself, you mean? You are right.
But it was not of myself I was thinking. If
you are generous, you will not speak of me, and
you have been too generous all along to be
unjust now. What I meant was, that if, as

THE MASKED BALL. 45

might well be, you are becoming unduly attached
to this girl, our guest, our child, a stranger
within our gates, you would be wasting honest
emotion in a direction that forbids the thought
of return ; and then I should pity you. If, on
the contrary, any less honourable thoughts
prompted you, why then you would be in danger
of that crime of which you imagined, thank God
falsely, a moment ago that I accused you.'

'And if so, Helena Paulovna, you would
have yourself to thank for it.'

He answered her brutally, rising suddenly
from his seat, his face flushing a sullen dusky red.

No, no, Michael Nicolaievitch, not that. I
have enough to answer for, and I am ready to
accept the accusation, and to expiate my fault ;
but the worst wife in the world need not make
a man guilty of an unmanly act, an gentlemanlike,
cowardly, cruel attack upon a defenceless
girl ; that girl his wife's guest.'

It need be nothing of the kind.'

Your answers show me that you are not
in earnest. When I spoke it was for your
sake, not for hers. She is a girl full of
character, proud, highlander, ignorant of evil,
innocent as a child. If you were so fortunate
as to be free, she is a girl whom you might

46 AUJ CSAR AUT NIHIL.

think of making your wife. That not being so,
there can be no alternative. But let us drop
this disagreeable theme.'

She disdained to think of herself in the
matter ; it was only on Bianca's account that
she was interested. She began now to doubt
the wisdom of having spoken at all.

The ball-room was crowded, the dancing
animated, and the buzz of conversation between
.the pauses of the band showed that there was
no dearth of spirit in the dancers. At the
upper end of the room, on a sort of dais, the
Countess had seated several of the elderly
ladies, douairieres who, not caring much to
preserve the secret of their disguise, chatted
easily with a few corresponding beaux of their
own age, impatiently waiting the hour to strike
when they might get rid of their masks and
apply themselves to cards.

Bianca, leaning against one of a group of
large orange trees, began to realise with despair
the difficulty of carrying out her project.
Two masks seated on a low divan on the
other side of the orange-tubs attracted her
attention. In the lady she had recognised,
by a ring which Esther never laid aside, her
special antipathy. The costly lace with which

THE MASKED BALL. 47

the heiress's dress was covered had caught
in an iron hoop encircling the orange tub, and
only deft and delicate unloved fingers could
extricate it from danger.

Whilst her companion held the glove
which Esther had drawn off, Bianca watched
anxiously.

Here was a chance for a lover ! He might
pretend to have dropped the glove, and secrete
it rapidly, whilst the lady was still busy with
her dress. As a matter of fact the cavalier
held it patiently and openly.

 Shall we sit here ? ' he asked, when she
had disengaged her dress ; ' it is cool and we
can talk at our ease.'

Yes, and I can put on my glove.' He
held it towards her as he spoke, and by the
small white scar just above his wrist Bianca
recognised MeUin. Her face flushed beneath
her mask, perhaps with jealousy.

'We must not remain together,' he said,
it might attract attention, the thing of all
others we wish to avoid.' (We !) ' And, thank
Heaven, you are of those my attachment does
not compromise. I can come to you at anytime,
can stay as long as you will let me, and
say at my leisure all I have at heart to say.

48 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

A ball-room ought only to be a place of
rendezvous for strangers ; convenient in its own
way for mere acquaintances, but not good
enough for those whose needs are less narrow.'
Some few words were lost. The speaker
lowered his tone.

Then Esther's voice, clear, round, and
ringing, and utterly free from disguise, answered
gaily : ' You command, I obey. I
submit to your better judgment. I forego my
own opinion, and sacrifice my own plan to
you, because I feel you are right. But I am
right too. Time presses, and there are others
to be considered, otherwise I would not resign,'
the dancers came between them, and the
listening girl supplied the words from her own
beating heart ; ' a moment of your society,'
Esther had been about to say.

What a flirt she was, how hungry after
admiration, how greedy of flattery and attention
! She had a dozen men at her feet, and
yet, because he was cold and silent and held
back, she must conquer Mellin too ! He must
swell her triumph, though but at the wheels of
her chariot ! Their very openness exasperated
Bianca; they were so secure, they were so
independent that they disdained to disguise so

THE MASKED BALL.



much as their voices. They had probably
agreed to meet ; he knew her costume, she had
a chie to his identity, and they could spend
the whole evening together, unsuspected ;
beneath the friendly disguise of the mask and
domino they were safe alike from friend and
foe.

But she was mistaken. A mask who had
been hovering within earshot came up and
engaged Esther in a sparring conflict of
badinage and repartee. Her light laughter
had all the ring of triumph in it, Bianca said
to herself, and she was glad to follow Mellin,
if only to escape from the jarring sound of
Esther's mirthful ease and contentment.

Mellin threw himself upon a divan at the
lower end of the room. He was evidently
waiting. A voice spoke to him over his
shoulder.

Do not look round. Sir Mask. The music
covers all sound of our voices. We can converse
without the appearance of exchanging a
syllable.'

I am all attention.'

You are betrayed.'

How, and by whom ? '

By a woman.'

VOL. III. E

go AUT C.SAR AUT NIHIL.

Naturally : her name ? '

Everyone knows it. Think of the domino
you last spoke with.'

All persons are alike in this disguise.'

 Perhaps. But you know the lady I mean.
I come, as a messenger from one who bids
me say that when the person in question disappoints
or places you false, when there is any
delicate or dangerous service that needs loyal
devotion, a matter in which you cannot appear,
and your agent must remain unknown, then
she is ready unquestioningly to undertake it,
even at the cost of life, without the reward
of thanks or recognition.'

Her name ? '

'I may not reveal.'

But if I need her services ? If this large
offer be no hoax ? '

There was a pause, for, to give a reference
to the Countess, or to Julie Kerezoff, would
have been to betray herself. Then Bianca
said in German, ' Advertise in the Ruskin Mir in
French or German for Hjrpatia, and give an
address where you can be found, or where an
answer can be addressed.'

Good. Is she here to-night? '

The person is  one of us.'

THE MASKED BALL. 51

Good again. But you do not answer me.
Is she here ? '

I am desired to ask you a question.'

Ask it;

Do you know any English in St. Petersburg
? '

No. That is, I have a bowing acquaintance
with the two Englishmen nicknamed in Society
Damon and Pythias.'

No one else . '

No one.'

'No one  absolutely? I was desired to
ask you this.'

Stay, I slightly know another  a lady.'

Is she trustworthy ? '

I cannot tell.'

Have you no means of ascertaining ? '

None ; and since I do not intend to trust
her  anyone rather  if I may judge of probabilities
'

Are you prejudiced ? '

No ; utterly impartial, if indifference be a
pledge of impartiality.'

England is a generous country ; a convenient
asylum. Have you no friends there, to
whom, in case of need, you could go ? '
E 2

UBKR

umvERS\rr of \luw

52 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

No English friends. Perhaps some of
other nationalities.'

Bianca half hoped, half expected, that out
of his enigmatical replies some chance allusion
to her mother or herself would show that he
had thought of them as likely to receive and
conceal him, should the necessity arise. He
evidently had forgotten so much as their existence.
He was absorbed in the pursuit of other
ideas.

You will not forget. I will tell the person
whose messenger I am that you will remember
Hypatia.'

And she left him, her heart swelling with
indignant pain.

At a quarter before twelve o'clock Count
Michael Perowsky reminded his friends in
council assembled that he and certain members
of the Society must return to the ball-room.
At midnight the signal to unmask would be
given, and no one must be missing whose
absence might cause suspicion.

One by one the Brotherhood, guided by
Ivan, had been ushered into the secret chamber.
One by one the ladies who had the password
were introduced by Chelanska, who,
when the list was full, and the accurate number

THE MASKED BALL. 53

pricked off, herself entered the apartment and
double-locked the door behind her mistress,
who passed in just before her.

The door of the boudoir was already locked.
Valuables belonging to the Countess made this
a plausible, and even necessary, precaution,
with the house full of strangers, and an army
of servants and hangers-on, congregated in
ante-rooms and passages, waiting ostensibly for
their masters and mistresses.

Into a lady's private apartment no one can
venture to penetrate quite unceremoniously.
The door which Chelanska locked behind her
was labelled ' Wardrobe,' and was supposed to
be devoted to the Countess's sables, lace, brocades.
Court costumes, and jewellery.

No one unmasked.

It was customary, as has already been said,
at these meetings to retain the mask and long
black cloak ; the present occasion made no exception
to the rule.

Bakounine had given in this programme
such prominence to women, and the devotion,
unselfishness, and tried integrity of the sisterhood
had been proved to demonstration so
often, that it was felt, if they chose to
speak, their utterances should command respect

AUT C.SAR AUT NIHIL.

ful attention. But tlie} were reminded on
this occasion that time was short, and the brief
moments necessarily precious. That which
would not admit of delay they were requested
to convey in the fewest possible words at their
command. Thus, to the bitter disappointment of
Chelanska, Esther Eodostamos could only advert
in a few concise words to the outrage of which
her nurse had been the victim in the faubourg.
The Countess said a few words of impassioned
remonstrance with regard to certain
crying abuses long promised amelioration, and
the total disregard and neglect on the part of
the authorities. Certain statements were made,
reports read, money voted to certain objects,
but there was a feeling that these were merely
the preliminaries, and that the raison d'etre of
the masked ball was something more, and other,
than the mere routine of a large organisation.
But when Count Perowsky rose just before midnight,
and reminded his guests that no accustomed
face must be missing from amongst the
maskers when the clock struck twelve, a sign,
imperceptible save to the initiated, went round,
and as the maskers passed out one by one
the doors finally closed on ten masked men
who had not as yet spoken, and who were by

THE MASKED BALE 55

common consent left sitting round the table in
the centre of the windowless apartment ; a mere
dark passage or vestibule, secured by fire-proof
doors, between the Countess's bedroom and her
husband's study. It would not be difficult for
those whom it concerned, to rejoin these mysterious
visitors when the guests in the saloon
beyond, relieved of their masks, should begin
to enjoy the pleasures of gratified vanity, the
sight of feminine loveliness, and dispensation
from the boredom of an affected address, which
the denouement tended to render as spiritless as
it was tiresome.

There had been one or two strange rumours
afloat dicing the earlier part of the evening,
and, as on pretence of looking at an old piece
of enamelled silver work, Mellin followed the
Countess to her boudoir, he said a word to her
that sent the indignant blood in vivid waves to
the very roots of her hair.

Impossible ! ' she cried.

But true. I know it as a fact. X

gave me every detail and every proof. It was
rumoured that there was danger ; some conspiracy
on foot. He was ever foolhardy.'

There is something more than foolhardiness
in such an act ! '

56 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Yes,' Mellin answered, purposely misunderstanding
her. ' Something of Quixotism ;
something of the whimsical curiosity of a
Haroun Al Easchid, which He affected in earlier
years, if report does not err.'

She was silent, not choosing to say. ' Something
indelicate ; something of an insult ; something
of an outrage ; something wanting in
self-respect ; something cruel to me as a
woman ; something cowardly.' But she only
asked : 

'Was He alone?'

No. When She found that a fancy which
originated in a jest of hers, had become a
resolution, and that he persisted in coming,
She insisted on accompanying him.'

'She? She? here?' It was just what
Helena herself, under conceivable circumstances,
might have done. Only  not to a sister 
never to a sister  under such circumstances.

All the wounded woman in her, all the
bitter sense of outraged delicacy, made the act
an unforgettable, unforgiveable affront. Excess
of anger kept her silent.

Then hurriedly, almost breathlessly : ' When
did they leave ? ' she asked.

As the last stroke of twelve lifted every

THE MASKED BALL. 57

mask they disappeared behind the 'portiere of
the blue saloon.'

The Countess had instinctively sought the
disguise of her mask. Her wounded spirit felt
sorely the need of privacy, yet dignity and
self-respect demanded that she should show a
brave front ; she must not betray herself, even
to Melhn.

Will you kindly look for Mile. Martello,
and tell her that I want her,' she said in a cold
voice.

And Mellin left her.

A few minutes later Bianca found the
Countess, pale as a marble statue, but smiling
and gracious as usual.

If I am asked for, Martellina mia say
that I am indisposed, and have withdrawn for
the night. Fraulein Fest will chaperon you.
Good night. Dance and amuse yourself. You
will only be young once, my dear ; ' and with
unwonted tenderness she kissed the young girl's
brow.

Bianca, whose hurried spirits had scarcely
recovered from the mortification of Mellin's
unconsciously contemptuous estimate of her
worth, felt soothed and gratified by Helena
Perowska's gentle affection. This woman, so

58 AUT C.SAR AUT NIHIL.

popular, beautiful, and distinguished, had by
her gracious action, healed the cruel wound the-young
girl's amour propre had suffered. Mellin
might despise her, Helena Perowska did not.

She leaned against the marble console and
removed her mask. Her face was pale, her
eyes brilliant ; she saw her reflection in the
glass : a girl no longer ; a woman, with all
that is proudest and most sensitive in her
woman's nature, offended, outraged, spurned.

'He shall not despise me! He dare not
despise me ! ' she murmured, passionately.

An arm was flung round her waist, and a
cavalier, in a Vandyke costume, tearing the
mask from his face, pressed his mouth on the
girl's proud, pale lips, whose pure hues were
trembling into tears.

But Bianca was strong, lithe, young, and
fearless. She forced herself out of the rude
embrace and stood confronting Michael Prows


His mask lay on the ground between them.

His small, oblique eyes were glittering.
There was an ugly expression in his face.

How dare you ? ' Bianca asked, coldly and
haughtily.

Oh ! that's how you take it ? The regula-the

MASKED BALL. 59

tion thing, I believe, is to complain to the wife.
Shall I call mine ? '

'No. It is not worth while, with the
Stanovie (town-police) available.'

Take care, young lady. You forget yourself.'


It is for you to take care, Michael Nicolai
; it is you who forget yourself. For me,
I despise you ! ' and she went out, shutting the
door ill his astonished face.

At that later, and smaller, edition of the
secret council to which she now returned, the
Countess Helena Perowska sat unweariedly,
unflinchingly, far on into the small hours of
dawn. Grave and vast matters were deliberated,
and portentous determinations declared
irrevocably. It was a mere question of the
How and the When of the final act of the tragic
drama. There would be no future opportunity
so favourable to discussion. The plan, in every
detail, was elaborated, amended, matured, and
accepted.

The late winter's morning was at hand
when the party finally broke up. There was
nothing strange in a moujik or two returning
with their empty hay waggons through the still
slumbering streets. Ivan undertook to see

6o AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL,

that the dvorniks, or yard-men, were away
betimes with all the straw and rubbish which
mark the morrow of a great entertainment.

Comet Michael, exasperated by his encounter
with Bianca, bearded in his own den, felt that
he had been doubly ignored, overlooked,
possibly laughed at and made a butt of by his
wife's sister and her companion, as he would be
tomorrow, when the rumour got abroad, by
half the town. The life of One of these two
unbidden, unwelcome, and unexpected guests,
whom no vigilance and no resistance could
possibly have excluded, might possibly expiate
the indiscretion of an intrusion which nothing
could justify. He, Michael Perowsky, would
not be the sport and fool a second time of
the Man who had always treated him with the
absolute, undisguised scorn wherewithal one
treats a troublesome, insignificant, and yet importunate
and offensive Thing.

The last word before the secret seance was
broken up was spoken by the Countess.

I claim the execution of your project as
my Eight,' she said, lifting her delicate white
hand in solemn appeal to the masked assembly.
And there was found no man to gainsay her.

6i

CHAPTEK XXXIV.

A Dreamer OF DREAMS.'

Ix the Winter Palace a saint lay dying.

The outside world fast bound in the iron
grip of grim frost and Nature wrapped in one
vast winding-sheet.

The snow, in noiseless feather-flakes, fell
steadily and softly upon the white earth ; no
one was abroad who could creep behind the
merciful warmth of the stove or the shelter of
four walls. A vast and universal silence made
itself felt like a monition. Men went and came
swiftly and silently, wrapped to the eyes in
furs ; for even to speak was to endanger the
lungs, and to stop and parley, fraught with a
risk of frost-bite none the less real because
invisible.

Home ' could surely never be so keenly
and longingly realised as by the luckless wayfarer
whom duty took abroad in this inclement

62 Au Caesar AUT NIHIL.

weather. How lucky the man whose whole
world lay immediately around him, able without
scruple of conscience to wait within until a more
genial atmosphere and kinder skies should
invite him abroad.

The sleighs passed noiselessly over the frozen
snow ; the sleigh-bells ringing faint and clear,
thin and far, * and thinner, clearer, farther
going,' as the chimes of that ocean city are said
to ring in the ears of mariners sailing by chance
across its spires and minarets, buried thousands
of fathoms deep in the clear waters.

When storms arise or rough winds blow
the silver sounds are lost ; but ships' crews
becalmed, or fishers rowing their heavily-laden
boats to land over the still and shining waters,
hear those ghostly chimes and carillons, and
hastily cross themselves in pious recollection.

Impossible to imagine any risings or rebellions
of the people in such weather as this.
Poor humanity can scarcely keep its chilled and
freezing blood in circulating order, much less
drive the moral thermometer up to the point of
enthusiasm. Material matters and the creature
discomforts of the moment weigh heavier in the
balance than the grandest flight of the most
eloquent stump orator. There are times when

M DREAMER OF DREAMS? 63

atmospherical influences reduce the moral
condition to a dead level, and when a man's
only thoughts take the form of a deep but
melancholy desire, a hope that is almost akin
to despair, that a speedy termination may be set
to his open-air experiences.

There is an old proverb to the effect that in
Russia one only sees the cold, whilst in Germany
one feels it.

In the softly-carpeted passages and anterooms
every foot-fall is deadened ; the vast
courtyards are silent as the tomb to which, with
faint and faltering steps, the Imperial patient is
descending. And yet, so protracted have been
her sufferings, so long and so slow her agony,
that those about her have come to disbelieve in
the near probability of proximate dissolution.

In the ante-room two priests of the Greek
Church are reading the Offices. One is the
dying lady's confessor. During more years
than he can now realise he has been the
recipient of her secret griefs and fears, of her
scruples and regrets, of her aspirations and
repentance. All those secrets which, in
flippant language, are easily and lightly said to
lie 'between man and his Maker,' have only
passed from earth to heaven through the

64 AUT C.SAR AUT NIHIL.

medium of the director of the Imperial
conscience.

The task of intercessor, mediator, minister,
has been an onerous one, and ofttimes the priest
has wondered, despite his priestly vocation, at
the persistent piety, the untiring scruples and
repentance, the unflinching and energetic self-martyrdom
that have marked the progress of a
pious yet tormented soul.

It has not always been an easy task to fulfil
the lofty requirements of an exacting ftiith, and
there have been times of weariness and repulsion,
when he has implored the Imperial
devotee to take another director, and spare
him the strain of witnessing so protracted
and agonising a spiritual struggle. But the
history of all those years, as the Imperial saint
justly pleads, can never be told again ; and
without it no priest could adequately direct
the penitent's conscience, or comfort her timid
soul. Heavy as is, confessedly, the burthen
laid upon his shoulders, he is yet called upon to
bear it, with the plea that Azrael, the merciful,
can now make no long tarrying, and that, with
the release of the weary soul, the burthened
ecclesiastic will find relief for his weary body.

On the opposite side of the room sits the

'A DREAMER OF DREAMS: 65

almoner of the Imperial charities, a man with
the chiselled face of the young Augustus, clean-shaven,
keen, and masterful of mien ; reserved,
discreet, respectful. He dispenses the Imperial
bounties, and is largely acquainted with all sorts
and conditions of the poor, afflicted, and suffering
populations. He bides his time ; sees much,
learns more, hopes most. Near the door leading
into the boudoir or small drawing-room
stand two Sisters, ready, at a summons which
may be expected every moment, to pass into
the bedchamber and relieve the guard of two
other sisters now keeping watch and ward.
Nurses are there too ; but their functions are
restricted to the barely necessary, accomplished
as swiftly and as skilfully as possible, after
which their duty is to retire beyond earshot
until summoned again by one of the sisters in
waiting. When the Imperial patient is well
enough, these messengers of mercy are able to
interest her by tales of the recipients of her
bounty, by accounts of the orphanages or
hospitals benefited, founded, or endowed by
her who now lies low  as helpless as the poorest
in that vast empire. Only this very morning,
after the visit of the physicians, the Imperial
invalid had given special orders with regard to
VOL. III. F

66 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

a children's hospital, and has inquired how far
her almoner has carried out the instructions
given him when she was last able to go though
the list of her charities.

There is no night and no day in these
purple chambers. The twilight of illness has
its perpetual abode there and reigns supreme
every hour of the twenty-four. Save the ticking
of the clock, there is nothing to tell the
advance of time, nothing to mark the flight of
hours and days and weeks. 'Yesterday,' and
tomorrow,' like the mathematical signs for
certain quantities, are but symbolical terms,
necessary in allusion to certain divisions of
time and matters of routine.

It has been laid down as a law by the
physicians in charge, that, unless directly asked,
the attendants are never to mention dates. The
day and hour which the Imperial patient believes
it to be, that hour and day it is ; and should
any member of the family or household be
required at any time of day or night, that
person must be fetched without reference to his
or her convenience, engagements, or duties.

Thus  in a sense  time has already ceased
to exist for the Imperial sufferer ; and it would
be impossible for her to say how long she has

'A DREAMER OF DREAMS: 67

lain there in the faint hush of expectation preceding
the final summons.

She is glad that the weary time of foreign
journeyings and desperate remedies are at an
end. That tomorrow will not send her off inquest
of a cure which she knows to be hopeless ;
that the springs of healing to be visited, the
southern cities to be sought, the painful pilgrimages
of a hopeless malady, need no longer
be undertaken. She is thankful for the rest
and the repose, the respite and recollection of
these rapidly lessening days. She seems already
to have entered upon the fulfilment of that
promised soothing security, ' where the wicked
cease from troubling, and the weary are at
rest.'

Of ' trouble ' and ' weariness ' she, poor
Lady, has had full measure, pressed down and
running over ; but the dawn will soon break
that shall show her the ' land o' the leal,' and the
remembrance of the confused and troubled past
with its hopes and fears, treacheries and betrayals,
will for ever be wiped out in glorious
certainty.

In this sure and certain faith she counts
these last few days of farewell as precious, and
even pleasant. She asks now and again for

68 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

those she has been used to see about her, chiefly
for the young ; and, m faint and laboured accents,
tells each the message given her to speak. Now
and again one of the sisters, at her request,
reads to her a few verses of the Psalms, a page
of the Testament, and, to the dying Christian,
there is heavenly music in the holy words.

Her beatrice, a young and attractive lady of
noble birth, she has dispensed from all duty.
The tenure that she holds on life is so frail
that all spiritual dis harmonies are agonising to
her. How ask a gay young creature, instinct
with all the hopefulness of idle youth, fluttering
in sportive vanity about the sunshine of Court-ife,
to bear the gloom of a dying-room, or to
pronounce, with due reverence, words that
should only be spoken by holy and humble
lips?

Between the paroxysms of suffering and
the exhaustion of pain there are times of
respite. The merciful boon of sleep, though it
be but artificial, becomes in place of a negative
good, a positive blessing to the weary and restless
patient. After sleep, periods of wonderful
lucidity and calm come like a benediction, and
those who see her at these moments bear away,
in countenances softly beaming, a reflected

'A DREAMER OF DREAMS: 69

radiance of that glorified light which was
never yet on earth or sea ; ' unless an awed
Imagination may picture that supreme Sabbath,
when the Almighty smile lit up complete
Creation, and shone upon the Earth declaring
It was good ! '

She sent often for her children.

She would pass her thin transparent hand
through the thick blonde locks of her last born,
her Benjamin, and smile to think that this
stalwart man, with the tawny mane and clear
blue eyes of a Northern viking, had lain a helpless
infant in her arms, gazing unseeing at the
world which was to be its home. She admired
the splendid young soldier in his glittering
trappings, with his fine martial air, quick commanding
manner, and healthy bloom, as the
sculptor admires some work of his prime, seeing
immortality in it.

This was her son ; bone of her bone, flesh
of her flesh, a creature proceeding from her,
and still in so far her own, that no nearer tie
had loosened the bond between them  mother
and son. Of her other sons she saw less ; they
had their own duties, their own official life,
their wives and families.

Her only daughter  married, some said uno

AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL,

happily, whilst others declared hers, if any
ever were, a pure love-match  had left the
mother whilst she herself was yet too young
for the relationship to be that of complete confidence,
as between equal friends, though it
had, undoubtedly, been one of tenderness and
respect.

Coming again, after a period of absence, to
the home of her birth, the young wife found
her memory of the circumstances surrounding
her maidenhood so wide of the actual truth,
that she had to learn anew the conditions prevailing
in her native country. Whatever difficulties
or dangers might beset her own path,
she made no sign of either, judging intuitively
that the day had passed when her mother's
repose could be endangered or troubled by a
tale of the perplexed problems and tangled
skein Destiny had set her daughter to unweave.

To disturb, with worldly cares, the peace of
those who have squared accounts with Fate,
and are content to abide, hopefully and
humbly, the ' serene result of all,' must, even
to less feeling natures, seem a sin ; to sensitive
ones, little short of the crime of sacrilege.

As the dying Empress lay waiting, her

A DREAMER OF DREAMS: 71

mind went back to the days of her distant
youth.

She remembered the simple homely life in
the quaint old German Schloss, where the
servants were all old, like the furniture and
the pictures ; where the fare was so simple and
the etiquette so severe. She remembered her
mother's endless ' Berlin wool-work ' and knitting
; her sisters' albums, in which they wrote
out verses from their favourite poets, and
treasured a lock of Goethe's hair, and sprigs of
green from Schiller's garden. She remembered
the private theatricals on her father's birthday,
when they composed and repeated verses in
his honour, instructed by her brother's
governor ' or tutor, and where she and all her
grand-ducal brothers and sisters had acted ina
comedy composed for the occasion by the
same obliging gentleman. She remembered
the summer boating-parties to an island, where
they drank May-wine and sang verses in
celebration of this native nectar ; and the
great shooting-parties in the autumn, when the
young ladies were kept very strictly locked up,
and their tasks doubled and quadrupled. The
shots going ofi* all day long made the girls
nervous and restless, and with their 

AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

hearted sentimentality they wrote poems to
the * Dying Deer,' the ' Hunted Hare,' the
Fated Fox,' weeping real tears over many an
an tired head. Then came a visit to Stabs
very dull, and stiff, and formal, where the
ladies' spines seemed as straight as the sandy
streets, and the buckram etiquette as un-relaxing
and rigid as if they had been enemies
received by hostile foes, instead of ' very dear
brothers and cousins.' A winter in Vienna,,
where their best frocks called forth an amused
ridicule that was never unkindly, and where
something of the easy temper and gay frolic of
the town was borne in upon their provincial
pig-tail-and-powder stupidity and old-world
angularity. Then the astounding news that
their rather dull, very pompous, eldest grand-ducal
heir apparent was to make a grand
marriage, and thereafter Court festivities, and
gala-clothes, and junketing all the year round.
Then her own marriage. Her father's
interview with her in his own shabby room
full of guns, and whips, and spurs, and pipes,,
whither she was summoned by the Court
Chamberlain, and where her poor eyes had
glanced timidly round at the antiquated rubbishy
trying to escape the severity of the parental

'A DREAMER OF DREAMS J 73

gaze until a smart rap over the knuckles
recalled, by practical appeal, her wandering
attention. A story of exhausted credit, of expensive
surroundings, of finished finances and
disastrous prospects, all remediable by and
through her.

It was like a fairy-tale in which she was
the beneficent fairy. The will-less, timid, innocent,
ignorant, young life was laid, as many
such a miscalled ' serene ' young life has
been laid before, and will be laid hereafter,
a willing sacrifice on the altar of
duty, and the high priest was called upon to
solemnly execute Iphigenia on the covenant-stone
of matrimony. She had been told that
her life must be changed, and it was changed.
She was desired to alter her religion, and it
was altered. The maiden became a matron
and a mother, without choice, and, truth to
tell, without vocation for either calling.
Nature, which had intended her for a virgin
and a saint, taught her to accept the sacred
obligations of maternity, but could only exacta
dull and spiritless submission to the yoke of
wifehood.

Then, the fancy being past, the husband
met estrangement half-way, and the wife spent

74 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL

the time that they might have passed together,
in praying Heaven to forgive his follies and his
sins, and to avert the consequences of them
from his head.

The drowsy warmth of the stove, the faint
perfume of flowers and incense-powder, the
murmur of the two waiting nuns, the monotony
of the almoner's meditations and the gentle
doze of the confessor, announced a certain resigned
and settled comfort that had nothing of
the tension and the strain, usually the most
wearing and weariful features of waiting and
watching.

Suddenly the stillness was rent by a
piercing shriek.

So wild, so weird, so eldritch, fraught with
such agonised terror as made the hearers'
hearts stand still. What was it ? What had
happened? With eyes full of awed questioning,
and parted lips, anxiously straining their ears
for what might follow, the priest and the
almoner and the two holy women stood waiting,
spell-bound.

Presently a message came from within.
The patient had awakened suddenly in agonising
distress of mind, and asked persistently
for the Countess Helena Perowska. She must

'A DREAMER OF DREAMS.' 75

come at once  at once ; there could be no
delay and no denial.

It was suggested that the Countess might
be absent, that the messenger could not be sure
of finding her. Should anyone else be fetched ?
Failing the Countess, would anyone else do as
well?

Asking for a pen, with extraordinary energy
the patient wrote a hasty hue. It was only
her own name.

She will come. It is enough. Go at
once,' she said, with the firm conviction of
assurance ; and lay back upon her pillows with
closed eyes, to await the result of her autograph.


In less than half an hour the Countess was
in the small drawing-room. The physicians
were within. The attendants had sent hurriedly
for them, and had told the story of their
mistress's troubled sleep.

Explanation she herself refused to give.
She took the soothing draught prescribed, and,
with her eyes fixed on the door, lay waiting.

1 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

CHAPTER XXXV.
IN kings' palaces.

It was long since they had met.

With swift and silent footsteps Helena-approached
the bed, and kneeling, kissed the
Imperial Lady's hand. A whole world lay
between the two women.

Bigot though the world called her, there
was enough of the woman still left in the dying
Empress for her first thought to be a look of
inquiry, as the light fell upon her former
rivers upturned face.

'You are not changed,' she said, speaking
half her thought, with a strange far-away
smile, that a gleam the more would have
converted into a curious kind of death-bed
humour.

Her unexpressed mind was  'And yet he
left you, as he left me.' Had she ever loved
the man there would have been womanly

KINGS' PALACES. 77

satisfaction, as for tardy compensation, in the
thought. But her trouble had been, and was,
that she had never loved him  that upon her
shoulders lay perhaps the burthen of his frailty
and his sin.

How changed at heart the beautiful woman
on her knees really was, it would have shocked
and startled the dying Saint to know. Indulgent
fancy and unprejudiced surmise, painted
Helena Perowska in the light of a forgiving
wife, who, by her long tenure, and the many
ties that the companionship of years binds
withal would, after a due time allowed to
offended dignity and wounded affection, condone
the unfaithful past, receive the errant
sinner, and reinstate him in his (never really
lost) position. She, who could love the poor
and the sick, the orphaned and widowed, the
suffering and starving, had never known love.
What she had forgiven  without forgiveness
being so much as required of her  she took
it for granted another could forgive. She had
heard nothing but good of Helena whose influence
had ever been exerted to generous
ends ; who had counteracted evil, and nobly
fought on the side of the weak and oppressed,
the poor man's faithful champion and ally.

78 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

And then, too, she had always been regular
in her religious exercises. Brought up in the
straightest tenets of Greek orthodoxy, the one
fault of her life she had sought to balance and
expiate by an untiring devotion to good works.
Indeed, there had been few, if any, who
regarded the irregularity of her position with
strictly critical eyes ; strange to say, her Imperial
mistress least of all. For whilst decency
prevented courtiers from babbling of the
beneficent influence of the modern Egeria
within earshot of their Sovereign Lady, yet the
neglected wife had openly confessed to herself
that, since such things must be, it was well for
all concerned that they should offend as little
as did the Countess Perowsky's relations with
Imperial Caesar.

Somewhere, in the background of her mind,
was a sense of relief ; it had ever been a heavy
and uphill task for her, with her confessed
deficiencies, to while away the Imperial gloom,
and to beguile the discouragement and listlessness
of Imperial leisure. She felt little, simple,
poor, and affording in tete-astute hours of
conjugal intercourse. Her tastes were all
domestic, and her bringing up had fostered
those tastes. She had no resources within hern

KINGS' PALACES. 79.

self, no confidence in her ability to please,
much less to charm ; and the sense of her own
unfitness for the task dulled her voice and
took all courage out of her efforts. The first
freshness of her bloom past, she lacked entirely
those qualities which, under favourable conditions,
make a wife her husband's best companion
long after mere personal beauty has
ceased to be a factor in the relationship.

To her mind, Helena had been well rescued
from a brutal and dissolute husband, upon
whom all her qualities, as well as the divine
gift of her rare and gracious beauty, would
have been but as the proverbial pearls cast
before the dull insensible brute whose snout
by preference grubs garbage from the mud.
Not loving her husband, there was no wifely
resentment against her rival in the poor lady's
mind, nor was there even the sense of neglect
to ruffle her contented calm. In ordinary life,,
the husband who neglects his wife, or who
transfers his affections to another, soon marks
the change of sentiment by material shortcomings.
But kings and queens suffer no
diminution of personal consideration or comfort
through the private infidelity of the one or the
other. The pomp and circumstance that wait

So AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

on kingly state wait on it though the heart be
breaking ; and a royal couple who never
exchange a word in private, sit in public, side
by side ' cooing and billing, like William and
Mary on a shilling,' smiling graciously, models
of conjugal fidelity and content.

For many years past the condition of the
Empress's health had dispensed her from all
State ceremonial ; but daily her august spouse
had paid her a visit in her private apartments,
had kissed her hand, inquired after the state of
her health, said a word or two as to their
children. Set at ease by the independence of
her position, knowing that her liberty was fully
recognised, the Empress learned to play the
part of hostess prettily enough. She was a lady
receiving a casual guest, and it behoved her to
make that guest's visit as pleasant as might be.

But these moods of ease and security
alternated with periods of passionate remorse.

Had she been a better wife he would have
been a better husband. Had she really striven
to please Him instead of cowardly abandoning
the attempt, they might have been an exemplary
couple, faithful to their marriage vows.
Those vows weighed heavily upon her. True,
they were not of her seeking ; but she had

IN KINGS' PALACES. gr

taken them. That fact remained, and the
morbidly tender conscience, the long habit of
continual introspection, suggested that no coldness,
no unfaithfulness on her husband's side,
as no unfitness and unwillingness on hers,
could dispense her from their fulfilment. Deep
down, in the secret recesses of her heart, she
knew there dwelt a guilty joy over the circumstances
that put a period to that unwelcome
wifehood, for which neither Nature nor
education fitted her. And now, on the borderland
of the future, a new revelation had come
to her.

Her husband's visits suddenly ceased. Why ?
Long before Helena Perowska returned to learn
the secret of how she had been supplanted, the
Empress had fathomed the truth of that disinclination
for all acknowledged duty which had
extended itself even to the routine ceremonial
observed towards her, during years, by the
hopelessly infatuated Euler of the land.

And now, in a torrent of rapid words, she
disclosed to Helena Perowska her fears and
her self-reproach.

As Helena listened, her soul seemed to
expand in astonishment. Was it inspiration,
illumination, revelation ?

VOL. III. G

82 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

The fragile invalid, hidden in the innermost
recesses of a perfumed palace, supposed
to pass her time in a state alternating between
religious ecstasy and somnolent lethargy,
to which the murmured prayers of priests and
bigots formed a monotonous accompaniment,
calculated to lull the hearer back into semi-unconsciousness,
yet, as by a miracle, alive to
the imminent and pressing dangers by which
the Throne itself was imperilled, and the person
of the Emperor, the patent object of a thousand
hatreds, deadly in their malice and revenge.
As, one by one, the causes of this direful
vengeance were unrolled, as the Empress
poured into the astonished ears of her hearer
the history of a hundred grievances and
wrongs, combinations and plots, Helena could
only hurriedly take a mental survey of the
possibilities.

Were they betrayed ? Was the almoner,
an advanced yet unsuspected member of the
party of discontent, a traitor to ' the Cause ' 
a renegade, betraying the secrets he had
solemnly sworn to guard ? Or was he only
the enlightened historian of unwelcome facts,
detailing them under the disguise of charitable
reports, and the programme of philanthropic

IN KINGS' PALACES. 83

enterprise ? Were these facts or intuitions ?
Fancies or prophetic warnings? The insight
of a transfigured soul, already rending the
veil and piercing the clay; the fine spirit,
divinely touched to finer issues ; or were they
mere fever visions, the physical outcome of the
poisoned blood, irritating the brain to morbid
activity ?

Kneeling still by the bedside, Helena
Perowska kept the Empress's hand in her
own, whilst the faint and feeble voice, in painful
contrast with the fiery energy of her words,
fell from the sufferer's lips almost upon her
hearer's bended head. Had anyone else been
in the room he could not have distinguished
the thread of the Imperial sufferer's discourse,
so husky, faint, and void of resonance were the
feeble tones of that dying voice.

Then, in a few calmer words, the story of
that sleeping vision which had wrung the scream
from her unconscious hips was simply told.
That shriek had curdled the blood of her
hearers with terror. With awful distinctness
she had seen the fearful vengeance overtaking
its victim, and she described, down to its last
horrible and appalling detail, the agonies of
the sufferer. As she listened, Helena Perowska's
G 2

84 A UT CSAR A UT NIHIL.

heart stood still. So, she knew, the Imperial
fate was written ; thus it was, inevitably,
doomed to be. The thoughts she would not
dare to define, the awful and complete particulars
of that act of exemplary vengeance
were brought before her in words of vivid
realism. All the superstition of her nature
rose up, and condemned her part in life.

To this dying saint, to this wronged and
injured woman. Heaven had revealed the
mysteries of the future, and had summoned her
former rival to receive her last, it might be her
dying, words.

The deserted wife and the abandoned mistress,
brought face to face by the threatened
fate of Him who was faithless to both, all
thoughts of mutual rivalry and wrong for ever
set at rest.

But the legacy the dying Empress would
fain leave behind, Helena was not at liberty to
accept. Their positions, she told herself, were
different. She had  overcoming every scruple
of conscience  given herself, heart and soul,
body and mind, to the man she loved. The
dying woman had, on the contrary, been
chained to the Emperor, whilst remaining profoundly
indifferent to the Husband from whom

IN KINGS' PALACES. 85

she had withdrawn herself. Had she loved the
man she would not have let hin go without a
struggle, nor looked upon her successor with
those ' larger, other eyes ' which can only belong
to the impartial impersonal looker-on.

Keeping herself pure of all reward, accepting
no costly jewels, living in modest
retirement, and gathering about her a circle of
refined intelligences, Helena had never abused
her influence or traded on her ' position.' She
had strengthened a weak nature ; she had
widened narrow sympathies ; she had increased
liberal dispositions, and had fostered generous
tendencies in a weak, suspicious, and vacillating
mind. She had, with her brilliant accomplishments
and delightful manners, known how to
charm away that dark and gloomy melancholy
which at one time had threatened to invade
and overwhelm even the stronghold of intellect.
She had been sweet and pleasant,
serious and playful, and she had believed that
only death could terminate a companionship
which she prayed Heaven to view with mercy
rather than with justice.

Illness, and the long strain and tension of
an incessant ' bolstering up ' of Imperial deficiencies,
weaknesses, and shortcomings, had

86 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

driven her to seek strength for her anxious
task in a more genial clime. She came back
to find herself betrayed  doubly, trebly betrayed
 and superseded.

Conscience told her that with the measure
she had meted out another's fate, therewithal
was her own now meted unto her. The sweetness
of her nature turned to gall, milk to
bitterness, and blood to revenge, the idea of
Retribution left her no more. In all the
deplorable and reprehensible results of a thousand
official villanies, she thenceforth saw and
accepted only one Responsibility. If the death
of one man could expiate the inherited blunders
and crimes of a succession, whose tenure of the
throne was founded on a long legacy of crime
and blunder, let that expiation be made. If
the sacrifice of the ' single lise ' could free ' the
type ' and emancipate millions, let the freedom
of the millions be celebrated, without regard to
the unit cost.

And now, into her astounded ears, her
dying and deserted Mistress was pouring pleas
for mercy and forgiveness, painting, in impotent
despair, the danger of an undermined
position, the impatience of the people, the
indignation of the educated, the patent folly

IN KINGS' PALACES. Zj

and scandal of an infatuation that had tolled
the final knell of dignity, and held Caesar up to
public obloquy, scorn and derision.

Save Him from himself! ' she cried, ' save
him from the consequences which are only
waiting at the gate. You can do it, and only
you ! I plead not for him alone, but for his
children, and his children's children, that
blessings may follow him to the grave and rest
upon his tomb, in place of cursing ; ' and exhausted
by the painful scene the Empress fell
back upon her bed.

What answer to make to the impassioned
appeal .

Had not Helena claimed, as a right, the
execution of that act which was to result in
the involuntary expiation for which the blood
of many a martyr to social and political faith
was crying from the ground ? How pacify
and reassure the dying ' mother of kings to
be,' appealing in the name of maternity, of
humanity, of religion against the execution of
a summary and indiscriminating vengeance ?

Helena was pledged. The convictions of
settled and unwavering judgment could not be
changed at the eleventh hour, by an appeal
that only touched her for the pleader's sake,

88 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

and left her cold and convinced in so far as
the object of those pleadings were concerned.

The Holy Inquisition and the College of
Jesuits could not have chosen their tools and
agents more carefully than did the Council of
the Propaganda. On him, to whom the lot
finally fell, the execution of justice fell also.
It was in opposition to every tradition and
rule that any one member should claim
executive rights. Volunteers might offer in
desperate ventures, a forlorn hope might need
a leader, but for any one member to arrogate
to himself the privilege of independent action,
could neither be countenanced nor allowed.

Yet, in Helena Perowska's case, it was felt
that there were special claims to exceptional
privileges. A faithless lover seems a very
poor object to the looker-on, when compared,
coolly and critically, with his faithful victim.
Then again, Helena Perowska was beautiful
and much beloved. Many a man would have
been glad to avenge her cause, seeing nothing
in it to stay his hand or damp his chivalry ; but
no one had dared to offer himself as champion
of her wrongs. Where a woman complains of
no one, it is an invidious act to suggest the
existence of an offender. Helena Perowska,

IN KINGS' PALACES. 89

a softly-smiling, sweetly-serene, and beautiful
woman, seemed far removed from the hideous
image of the typical Fury. And besides and
beyond all this, hers was a personality that
Society could ill spare. No one would willingly
connive at her risking exile and ignominy who
could avert such a fate from her.

Kneeling still beside the bed, an attitude
unnoticed by its occupant in the excitement of
her address, Helena Perowska knew not what
answer to make. She was pledged to her
Cause. She had espoused it with all her heart.
She must temporise.

Promise, promise ! ' cried the dying Empress,
faintly yet urgently.

Alas ! such promises are vain. I no
longer have the honour of His Imperial
Majesty's acquaintance. He would reject all
attempts at a renewal of intercourse as an impertinence.
It cannot be. Madam. Willingly
as I would obey you in any other matter, this
cannot be.'

Ah ! ' cried the Empress, shuddering again,
that awful vision ! I cannot clear my soul
of it. Something of the responsibility rests
with me. It will haunt me night and day.'

Nay, Madam, yours has been a blameless

90 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

life, without reproach as it now ought to be
without fear. You have lived as you will die,
a saint.'

But since we were sent into the world as
sinners, it were better perhaps to leave saintship
for hereafter,' replied the Empress, again
with that faint, far-off touch of humour, foreign
to her valid days.

Helena had accomplished her design ; the
continuity of thought was broken, the difficulty
and danger tided over. Rising from
her knees she requested permission to withdraw,
and promising to hold herself in readiness for
Her Majesty's commands, she took a tender
and respectful leave of the now partly-pacified
sufferer.



Chapter XXXVI.

THE LULL BEFORE THE STORM.

Something of the scruples and sanctity of
the sick room chmg to Helena Perowska,
causing her much anxious thought and self-examination.
It could be kept no secret from
Mellin. But the news of it went no further,
unless mysterious rumours which began to fly
about the city might be vaguely understood
to have some connection with the matter.

It was said that the Empress had dreamed
a dream of terrible import, and that the cry
she uttered on awakening had been taken up
and repeated by a huge white bird, whose
presence on the palace roof had not been suspected
until it rose into the air, repeating its
wild and mysterious note of warning in exact
accordance of key, and in unison with, the
Imperial sufferer's awakening scream. It was
said that the bird had flown away eastwards,

92 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL,

and had since then been seen no more. Some
there were who declared the bird of ill-omen
to be the precursor of the Empress's death ;
others said that it was the Angel of Death
himself ; and yet others, that it was a traditional
fowl which always appeared before the
demise of any member of the Imperial family,

In a country where there is so much superstition
and so many idlers as in Russia  or,
at any rate, St. Petersburg, given the text  a
hundred gossiping follies and vagaries will
follow in easy succession. The white bird had
appeared in warning to the Emperor. It was
supposed to predict evil to him. Suddenly it
was changed into a black bird, then it ceased
to be a bird at all. It was a spectre ; and by
degrees the ghostly visitant was insensibly made
to assume the speech and language, or, at least,
the would-be utterances and opinions, of each
individual raconteur. It gave the idlers something
to talk about.

Hypatia ! '

Melhn had advertised in the Uuski Mir.

Time was pressing.

Helena Perowska, whose daily visits to the
Winter Palace now made her from certain
points of view, the very person fittest to under-the

LULL BEFORE THE STORM. 93

take the enterprise in hand, could for reasons
very clear to Mellin's impartial mind no longer
be called upon to carry out its execution.

Her nerves were shaken, her hand no longer
sure.

In the absence of any available individual,
he thought of the Mask who had announced such
life-weariness  such enthusiastic devotion 
as to be willing to part with existence itself
so the sacrifice might further the final interests
of ' the Cause.' He had directed the person in
question to come to him at his official residence,
whither came many (both male and female)
applicants daily, \vith statements of grievances
to be adjusted, arrears of pension to be paid,
immunities and indemnities to be granted.

Let the person in, and do not disturb me
again until I call you,' he said to the servant,
who brought him a card on which was printed
Hypatia,' and a word used to designate fidelity
to ' the Cause.'

I have come in answer to your advertisement,'
said Bianca, turning back the long black
veil that covered her face.

Silence was the only adequate expression of
Mellin's exasperation.

His usual melancholy civility utterly forsook

94 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

him With what he later owned to himself to
be an entirely irrational, inexcusable, and foolish
wrath, he turned roughly upon her.

What foolery is this ? What comedy-acting
has sentimentality inspired you with?'

The brutal incivility of his address stung
Eianca to retort :

I have yet to learn where the foolery lies.'

Had he cast a second look at her, he might
have been more merciful. He condescended to
no such attention.

The months had changed Bianca sadly.
Disappointment was eating into her heart and
undermining her health. Her eyes looked
unnaturally large and lustrous, and the snow
outside was scarcely whiter than her wan
cheeks. She had waited and hoped, in her
devotion to an irrational, impossible Ideal ; and
as each day brought its sting of jealousy, its
blank of deferred hope, or its wound of indifference,
the girl's high spirit suffered torments
inconceivable to colder natures and cooler blood.

This man was her hero.

To her he embodied all that was noble,
philanthropic, unswerving, devoted, heroic.
She wanted nothing of him but what he could
easily give  a little confidence, a little esteem.

THE LULL BEFORE THE STORM. 95

a little sympathy, a word of encouragement, a
glance of approval or kindliness. Did she
wish to bring him off his pedestal, to lower
him to the common level, to diminish the distance
between her insignificance and his importance
? No ! She could think of Mellin in
none of the ordinary relations of life. As a
lover, a husband, a father, he would cease to
be Mellin  the Mellin she knew and worshipped.
If other women, as in her insane jealousy she
accused Esther Eodostamos of doing, sought his
favour, her dumb exasperation and contempt
pursued the delinquent. But what had she
done that he should so persistently ignore and
overlook her . For a moment she forgot that
he was a demi-god, and she answered him with
a tartness and a resentment which the ordinary
mortal does not bear without some sign of retributive
temper.

Does the Countess know of this ? '

'No.'

Then, if you will allow me ' (recovering
his usual tone of cold politeness, which in
Bianca's ears sounded like the sharpest satire),
I will send for a droschky, that you may at
once return home.'

He told himself that the sight of Bianca

96 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

always annoyed him. He had an idea that he
had done unwisely in picking up this troublesome
pebble, which seemed to have a talent forgetting
into his shoe at inopportune moments,
and threatening to lame the pedestrian in his
political pilgrimage. She reminded him, by her
irritating likeness and unlikeness, of her mother ;
and it annoyed him to feel that, after all these
years, he was weak enough to regret a happiness
that never could be his.

No,' said Bianca, ' no ; you shall not send
me away. What have I done ? Why am I
not to be spoken to ? Why do you treat me
with contempt ? And, if you are forced to speak
to me, why do it in such a way that others
might believe I had forfeited your esteem ? '

Stuff ! People are not concerned either
about you or me.'

Despite his good resolutions, the Tartar was
getting the better of the Eussian's posh.

You did not treat me so in Germany.'

This was true ; but Mellin did not intend to
be drawn into argument.

'Mile. Martello,' he said stiffly, 'you will
oblige me by leaving this house. A young lady
should not pay visits unaccompanied. If you
have any fault to find with my conduct, make

THE LULL BEFORE THE STORM. 97

your statement to the Countess Perowsky, and
she will doubtless call me to account on your
behalf May I again suggest that a droschky be
sent for, and that you retire ? '

No,' Bianca answered, ' or if you do I shall
not go. I am determined to speak ; it is cruel,
heartless, shameful. Why am I not allowed todo
anything ? Why cannot you use me for the
work you intended Hypatia to do ? I came out
here because you had taught me devotion was
the first duty to 'the Cause;' and now  you
despise me, reject me, treat me as though I had
committed some unpardonable offence. It is
not fair. It is ungenerous, inhospitable, inhuman.
I claim my rights. I demand to know
why you ignore me.'

What lurking devil crept into secret council ?
Why did Mellin suddenly come to a mental
pause, and, failing time to follow out the text,
make a memorandum that should help him to
a full and clear consideration of the issues at
stake ?

Why should he not employ her as he had
designed to employ Hypatia ? ' True, the risks
were immense ; but if Fate removed this 
from his pati, was he to blame?

VOL. III. H

98 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

The event was not in his hand, and one life is
worth another.

There is a certain kind of hie eye which,
in repose, is veiled and soft, but when animated
by secret anger becomes coldly, poignantly
cruel. For one brief moment such a gleam
betrayed itself in Mellin's sudden glance as he
looked at Bianca. Then the habit of self-control
resumed its sway, and the ruthlessness
that shone there disappeared.

Before she left him, Bianca was partially
initiated into the project for which her services
might be required. Yet. as he would have no
secret understanding with her, the Countess
should be instructed and consulted before the
ultimate design was confided to the willing
instrument of their combination, who was to
take Helena Perowska's place.

The winter Adore its wearisome length
gloomily towards spring. A sense as of something
impending, a suppressed impression of
tension made the surface-stillness and inaction
painfully apparent. The pressure of public
insecurity was felt in private life. No one
seemed to have spirit to undertake anything.
Social and commercial enterprise, if not dead,
was slumbering. Of political enterprise it was

THE LULL BEFORE THE STORM, 99

difficult to formulate so much as the faintest
prophecy. All things were possible to him
who would only wait ; but meantime nothing
was done. The optimists believed in the approach
of the Millennium ; the pessimists
predicated of the inaction, that it was but the
lull before the storm.

H 2

loo AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Chapter XXXVII.

'A GOOD AUNT.'

Lady Eockminster belonged to a class of persons
by no means so scarce as their enemies would
fain believe them to be. To say of her that
she was ill-bred, or underbred, was to say
nothing. She simply had no breeding at all ;
and if the individual could have been found
bold enough to tell her so, she would have replied
that the fact, if fact it were, was of no consequence.


Persons of a certain rank flatter themselves
that they can dispense with breeding, just as
they imagine that they can dispense with dress.
To Clothing, as a concession to the conveniences,
they will conform ; but, provided it have
the leafiness of the g., all other attributes are
superfluous. It need not be graceful, or flowing,
or artistic, or harmonious ; it may be threadbare,
scanty, ugly, and  alas that truth exacts the
confession !  dirty.

'A GOOD AUNT.' loi

The primeval Peverils, who may be supposed
to have run ' wild in woods ' and woad,
wielding wooden clubs and stone axes as science
and knowledge advanced, and the noble art
of self-defence became a necessary accomplishment
for the cadets of great families in the
Peak district  had never had any manners
to speak of; and it behoved the latter-day
Peverils not to degenerate into the suavity in
indo of invertebrate civilisation, to the oblivion
of that forester in re by virtue of which they
had held their own from immemorial ages.

The late Lord Eockminster had been a
feeble and effete specimen of a sporting lord.
He was born rickety, and his efforts at tobacco,
drink, and miscellaneous vices had made him
an old man before he had attained his majority.
It was his boast that he was neither tenth nor
twentieth ' transmitter of a foolish face ; ' he
liked to think, and was wont to boast, that at
his decease, his noble race, as transmitters of
foolish faces, would be extinct. He kept racing
stables, betted wildly, and, mistaking prodigality
for generosity of living, gave himself over to
the reckless society of trainers, jockeys, grooms,
and stablemen.

Rumour reported that the Eockminster

102 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

drawing-room was the scene every wet Sunday
of what the owner called ' a quiet mill ; ' and
if professional boxers came down from Town
late on Saturday night, and the noble lord
and his friends liked to beguile the tedium of
a rainy Sabbath by gentle bets on the Whitechapel
Smasher and the Tiptoe Pet, backing
Barges Bill against the West of England
Champion, and vice verses who should say that
the young gentlemen were less innocently
occupied, in thus encouraging the national art
of self-defence, than the plumed dowagers
nodding and whispering away characters, and
killing reputations over the cheering cup
which  breaking the dull monotony of long
Sunday afternoons  may almost be said to develop
inebriating properties.

But when the young gentleman's shaky
health, trembling knees, and tottering finances
made a nurse and a wife necessary, the Marquis
of Matlock, a friend of his father's youth,
recommended his own youngest sister. Lady
Jane Several, for the situation.

The little rickety Lord was told she would
take care of him, and he obeyed the Marquis
and married his sister. A clean sweep was
made of his familiars ; the property was

'A GOOD aunt: 103

nursed ; Lord Eock was taken abroad, and
after three years Lady Eock was a widow.
The men at the chin had set jokes going about
poor little Eockmmster. In allusion to the
way in which wily crows had plucked this
innocent pigeon, they called him ' the blue
Eock,' and made riddles which, in those circles,
were considered brilliantly witty, playfully
alluding to his name and his marriage, to
which event (and the plucking aforesaid) he
was supposed to owe that azure tint coupled
by his quondam companions with the abbreviated
form of his noble patronymic.

As he had shuffled off this mortal coil long
before our story begins, even this curt obituary
notice would be superfluous, but that it tends
to enlighten the reader as to Lady Eock-
minster's freedom, functions, and confirmed
habits of officious tyranny.

The years of matrimony, which had been
years of timid obedience to little Lord Eock,
had been a period of undisputed authority to
his exacting spouse ; and when he died and
she had ordered cheap mourning enough to
last the two years of vidual affliction, she
began at once to look round for a new though
not necessarily a conjugal victim.

104 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Meantime, she had grown rich. As a
mistress of her art she flew at high game,
and boldly declared that none other was
worth the candle.' To subdue a paid dependent,
to quell a poor relation (of Eock-
minster's  there were no poor Peverils) could
afford her no adequate gratification. She kept
up a sort of internecine war with the parson of
the parish, because, to be at peace would be to
deprive her of the chief amusement, or excitement,
of her country life ; she was rude to
everybody ; insolent to the county ladies ;
wrangled freely with the farmers' wives, and
was the terror of all the circumjacent clergy-women.
Age and infirmity had brought even
the Marquis of Matlock under her sway.
That woman's tongue is like the iron clapper
of a brazen bell,' he would say testily, interlarding
his complimentary remarks with expletives
and oaths ; nevertheless, he knew,
when she struck the hour, his time had come,
and words would be worse than wasted.

She had rather liked the late Lord Dove-dale,
an indolent invalid, as feeble as the poor
little 'blue rock,' without the rickety Lord's
shaky hands or rackety vices. She had intended
to arrange, indeed she flattered herself

'A GOOD aunt: 105

that she had arranged, a marriage for him
with a young lady of title, whose pedigree was
as ancient as her mind was empty. But Lord
Dovedale had declined entering upon any sort
of matrimonial engagement, and within a few
months had passed beyond his aunt's aggressive
tyranny, and joined the great majority.

But Lord George, she declared to herself,
now by his brother's death become a personage
of importance, should not escape her. The succession
to the house of Several was endangered.
The situation demanded prompt action. The
line must not be suffered to fall extinct for
want of a little timely energy. George was
strong, and could stand a deal of worrying.
Perhaps, too, he was headstrong, and would
need to be convinced that he could not have
his own way ; that is, unless his way should be
hers also. Thank goodness, he was not
romantic ; they had nothing to fear in that
direction. But it behoved them to act with
energy. The Marquis was getting old and
apathetic. No matter : he could be dealt with
hereafter, should special dealing prove necessary.


So Lady Eockminster ordered her bag to
be made ready to go down to Several Park.

io AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

As she still wore black, and as the repertoire of
her toilette only consisted of two gowns, a
rusty bombazine for daylight, a rusty black
silk, void of ail trimming or adornment, for
evening wear, she required no luggage and no
maid, and took neither. At the Junction
where she had to change carriages, she grasped
her own bag and umbrella, and waving off
troublesome porters, stumped down the platform,
pleased to think she had disappointed
these rapacious idlers of the tributary sixpence.

More than once it had happened that,
arriving with a crowd of other guests at a
great house, she had been confounded by the
housekeeper with the soberer class of Abigail
supposed to be in attendance on some obscure
old lady. Profuse apologies and terrified explanations
followed these mistakes, to which
caustic answers and ruthless replies would be
returned; but, to do her justice. Lady Eock-
minster harboured no malice against the good
woman who had failed to detect the sangre
azul which flowed beneath the shabby garments
affected by her ladyship.

The Marquis uttered a testy protest when
he got her note announcing her arrival in the
course of a few hours. He bore it, but 'he

'A GOOD aunt: 107

could not grin.' Yet, as Lady Eockminster
had never set any fictitious value on her
brother's smiles, she was philosophically prepared
to dispense with them on the present
occasion.

Giving him a large and bony hand, clad in
grey cotton gloves, of which the fingers, always
too long, had a tendency to develop flat tab,
destructive of all sense of satisfaction in what
our neighbours call ' le schak-hand,' Lady
Eockminster proceeded at once to business.

I've come about this marriage of George's,'
she said, as the valet left the room.

Which marriage ? '

Good heavens ! You don't mean to say
that the wretched boy has got into any entanglement
already ? '

'Whosaidldid.P'

Well, you asked " Which marriage ? " as
though there were several on the tapis. If
you had said " What marriage ? " I should
have supposed simply that you had not heard
of the one I have to propose to you.'

And don't want to hear.'

Well, at any rate, I am glad to know that
I am first in the field. You may not like to
hear it, but though you are a wonderful man,

io AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

you are a very old man, and you ought to see
grandchildren about you before you die

Thomson says my constitooshun's as good
as ever.'

Thomson was the body-surgeon, and regarded
by Lady Rockminster as being several
degrees lower in the social scale than Martin,
the valet. She called him an ' apothecary,' as
she used to call the chaplain, her nephew's
tutor  the Reverend Adolphus Moon, a most
sweet young divine from Cambridge, with an
elaborate curl on his white and expansive brow,
and quite a way with him,' as the housemaids
said,  ' the usher ' and ' the schoolmaster.' So
she contented herself with saying : 

George's children won't impair your constitution,
and as it's to the apothecary's interest
to keep you alive, I dare say he's to be believed
for once.'

Besides, I hate children.'

Your own, of course, might be a bother to
you ; but George's you need never see, unless
you like. It would be a disgraceful thing if
the unbroken line were to die out now, for
want of a little forethought.'

To this the Marquis only grunted out an
inaudible reply, wishing his man would come

'A GOOD aunt: 109

in, wishing the dressing-bell might ring, wishing
his sister in any remote spot on, or under
the earth, rather than just opposite to him on
the hearth rug. But as he knew he had to endure
her, he hoped that the twilight mercifully
descending would hide the slumbers he settled
himself to fervently invoke.

He was roused by a question.

When is George coming home . I thought
he only went over to settle about his things ? '

I don't know about " only." He went
over.'

And hasn't been back . '

Oh, yes. He's been back. When did
Lord Dovedale come back, Martin . '

This was an artful device, suggesting a
belief in Martin's presence as a matter of
course.

Martin is playing at cards, no doubt, with
the housekeeper. It makes me sick to think of
how you are cheated by the army of idle people
you keep on the premises. You don't want
Martin, however, since I'm not particular as to
the date. So he lias been back, that's all I
care to know ? '

Well, you can know that.'

Did you open the subject to him? '

io AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

'What subject?'

Why, the subject, of course. What have
we been talking of for the last hour ? '

I have not been talking at all.'

The subject of his marriage ? '

It was t' other way round.'

Which Away ? What do you mean ? '

He opened upon me. Of course I let him
talk ; I won't hear of it. I will never consent.
He can :lo as he pleases. He is of age. It's a
scandal, that's what it is ; not even a gentlemanly
scandal.'

I don't understand a word of what you're
talking about. Where is George now ? '

At St. Petersburg.'

What has he gone there for ? I thought
you said he had settled his affairs.'

After this d d Jewess ! ' cried the

Marquis, giving the objectionable word a large
and emphatic amplitude that was asbahn to his
soul.

To Lady Eock the announcement conveyed
nothing so very appalling.

Lord Eockminster's early natural history
had not been without its piquant details, and
he would almost roll off his sofa as he recounted
with shrieks of laughter stories of the

'A GOOD aunt: in

rapacity and vulgarity of the ladies, with whose
presence he had been wont to adorn his
bachelor banquets.

Once Lady Eockminster had gone to the
theatre in Paris, and had seen a tall, pale, lithe
woman, her head bound with a Greek fillet,
her white robes falling in straight lines like
sculptured marble to the floor, at whom the
whole house rose, applauding with frantic
shrieks one of Eachel's greatest triumphs.

It had all been a mystery to her. A 'play-actor,'
as she called the historian, was in her
eyes nothing but a mountebank ; and as she had
been brought up with a fine old British Conservative
contempt for the genus ' foreigner,'
she had not been surprised that a company of
apes should chatter, and weep, and gesticulate,
over the imperfect imitation of themselves,
given by a popular female mummer.

Her experience being narrow, and her
imagination nil she went back to such facts
as she knew for comfort and enlightenment.
And between Lord Eockminster's confidences
and her own observation, she arrived at the
conclusion that her nephew had been fascinated
by the oriental charms of a rolling-eyed,
black-haired, long-nosed lady of the ballet, so

112 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

much as to mention whom, was an unnecessary
condescension. From the point of view of
morality her ladyship felt no qualms. Her
youth had not been spent in the Matlock atmosphere
for nothing.

Bah I ' she said contemptuously, ' it's of no
consequence.'

But before she left the room to change the
rusty black bombazine for the rusty black silk,
she had been forced to arrive at a different
conclusion.

I shall write to Adamant, and start at once
for St. Petersburg,' she said. ' I shall not give
him time to reply ; so, whatever he may say, it
will come to the same thing.'

The prospect of getting rid of her so much
sooner than he had expected, made the Marquis
positively affable.

It will cost you a lot of money,' he said.

It might you ; it won't me.'

You had better take my second-best fur
cloak. I will tell Martin to send for it to the
furrier's.'

And with the Marquis of Matlock's second-best
fur cloak, brandy flask, and a box of
Huntley and Palmer's most husky biscuits, the
fond aunt made her journey to St. Petersburg.

'A GOOD aunt: 113-

Lord Adamant, who was a distant connection,
had sent her a letter full of the prohibitive
horrors of the climate and the dangers incident
to Nihilist plots, and was therefore doubly dismayed
when she entered his presence late one
evening, just as he was going off to dine with a
popular Grand Duke.

In his twofold capacity of cousin and
diplomatist, he was pledged to a certain
measure of civility, and as Lady Eockminster
plainly told him she expected to reside at the
Embassy, he had no alternative but to order
rooms to be got ready for her and her maid.
No one likes to tell a rude, rich old woman that
she must go to an hotel, if she declares her
intention of occupying a part of his house ; and
as Lady Eock boldly declined to be the prey of
thieves, robbers, bad cooking, long bills, and
vermin, there was nothing for it but to make
'bonne mine au mauvais jeu,'

That terrible old woman, your aunt, has
come to fetch you home,' he said to Lord
Dovedale, against whom he stumbled, going up
Esther Eodostamos's staircase at midnight.

Not really ? ' said Dovedale, only half
believing it.

True. She has taken up her quarters at

VOL. III. I

114 eut Caesar AUT NIHIL.

the Embassy. It's a mercy that Lady Adamant
can't make up her mind to leave Paris, or there
would have been  well, let us, for euphony's
sake, say unpleasantness.'

My aunt, Lady Eockminster, has come
from England,' said Lord Dovedale to Esther
an hour later.

Oh, how nice for you. You should have
brought her to my little party.'

And she passed on to speak to new arrivals.

Even Lord Dovedale, obstinate and simple
as he was, could not but smile at Esther's
sublime unconsciousness. He, who knew his
aunt's prejudices, her exclusiveness and insolence,
was amused to see how Esther took it
for granted that his aunt would accept her unquestioningly,
and come to her party as a
matter of course ; and yet he had no word to say
when later on, in the course of a quadrille,
Esther asked pleasantly : 

'Is your aunt very handsome? English
ladies generally are. They wear so well ;
indeed, I have seen some who appeared to me
more attractive than their own daughters.'

My aunt is a rude, vulgar old woman ! '

How can that be ? Lady Eockminster,
nee Several ? '

'A GOOD aunt: 115

'All the Peverils are very commonplace.
That is our grand quality. She has only two
gowns in the world, and is much shabbier than
your kitchenmaid.'

Ah ! she is pious and gives to the poor.'

She abominates the poor, and she never
gives to anyone. She thinks the poor are poor
out of obstinacy or spite, or to extort money,
or for some occult and villainous reason.'

She loves you, at any rate, very much, to
come all this way to see you.'

She loves her own way. She loves meddling.
She loves to govern and to tyrannise.
Poor little Lord Eock, who was ever so much
younger than she was, found it easier to die
than to live under her regime, and yet she
nursed his property, and took care of him, and
freed him from the harpies who were eating
him out of house and home.'

And now she has come to take you bad?
to England. That is what I call a good aunt.

I 2

ii AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

'THAT MAN.'

Lady Eockminster, who had been accustomed
once a year to pray for Jews, Turks,
Infidels, and Heretics (at the same thine
congratulating Providence on the prevision
that had provided the world with Peverils),
whose idea of an ancient race was confined to
money-lenders, tight-rope dancers, old clothes,
and certain dim and dingy streets in most of
the capitals of Europe (to the entrance of
which the courier conducted distinguished
travellers, saying something about the middle
ages, merchant princes, and red shields), could
not be expected to master ' at one sitting ' the
sublime fact that a Jewess had refused, and
persistently refused, during the last two years,
to marry that county magnate, the future Marquis
of Matlock.

I came over here to see about things for

'THAT man: 117

myself,' she said. ' Of course your father let
fall a word. I can't say I was much troubled,
however, as that sort of hussy can generally be
bought off or disposed of in some fashion ; '
adding, after a pause,  what sort of person is
your " own man ? " If he is anything like
Martin  whose brother my woman tells me he
is  he's very accommodating.'

The relevancy of the remark did not appear,
but Lady Eock seldom spoke without a meaning.


He does his duty fairly well. " Accommodating
" servants are generally rascals. Nor do
I desire to be " accommodated," ' said Lord
Dovedale dryly. ' No man is called on to do
more than his duty. What did my father say ? '

He said " that d d Jewess," ' Lady

Eockminster answered, giving the objectionable
word in Brobdignagian capitals, after the
matter-of-fact manner of the Peverils.

Ah ! lie will not say that when he sees her
portrait, still less when he sees herself.'

What's the painting-man going to get for
it?'

By the ' painting-man ' she meant Graham,
with whom she had by this time become acquainted.
He had been presented to her at an

ii AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

evening reception at the British Embassy, and
had been bidden by someone to make himself
agreeable.

Lady Eockminster was far too patriotic and
Conservative to speak any language but her
own, yet she was apt to become illogically
irritable and impatient when, of all the varied
conversations going on around her, she could
not understand a single word. That her
ignorance rebounded upon herself did not
occur to her ; she simply thought it very ill-bred
that the people about her did not restrict
themselves to the English language. Thus she
was glad to reduce her rale of stern exclusive -
ness, and condescended to admit such persons
to her acquaintance as under other circumstances
she would not have vouchsafed to
acknowledge.

Although she knew Mr. Graham's name
perfectly well, she affected not to consider it
worth remembering. It marked her sense of
his social inferiority to call him ' that man,'
trusting to the context for concordance; or the
painting-man,' which included his trade whilst
it equally excluded his patronymic. To her
apprehension, to speak of him as ' Mr. Graham '
would be to acknowledge his entity, which,

'THAT man: 119

according to her peculiar theories, had no
existence apart from her temporary recognition
of it. Nevertheless, as she was inquisitive, her
pride did not prevent her asking him any
amount of questions, which Graham answered
as loyally, with regard to his friends, and
as truthfully, with regard to the lady (if not
altogether without a spice of malice) as his
conscience would permit.

Well, I'm vexed the little upstart isn't
here, for I can't imagine what there is to make
such a fuss about in " a parvenu." '

Excuse me. Madam, Esther Eodostamos, if
it is of her you are speaking, is no " upstart."
She is a modest, intelligent, very beautiful
young lady.'

Well enough for her sphere of life, I daresay.
I have no patience with some people's
folly. Of course they run after her for her
money. As if the American shoddy and oil
people were not a proof of that every day,
though I believe even they have the pas of
usurers.'

Stephen Eodostamos was not a usurer,
unless you call the Drummond's, the Baring's,
and the Courts', and such as they, usurers.'

A low Jew.'

Io AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

He was a Greek, of pure pedigree, I am
told ; I don't go in for that sort of thing much
myself. It is on the mother's side that Esther
Eodostamos claims Jewish descent. The
Spanish Jews, as you no doubt know, became
a feature, an element, and if history may be
believed. Dons and Hidalgos, a great power in
the State. The Spanish Jews are, or claim to bethe
aristocracy of their race, as they can trace
their descent from the House of David and
the tribe of Judah ; and tradition affirms that
they were settled in Spain long before the fall
of Jerusalem. History is full of the names of
these princely Jews, who, accepting the comparatively
modern patent of mediaeval nobility
in the land of their adoption, have been
handed down in stately generations to us in the
Alvarez, the Yillareals, the Mendoza, the de
Castro, the de Costs, the Salvador, and half
a hundred other familiar names of modern
Spain. Esther Eodostamos's mother was a
da Costa, therefore of ancient Spanish pedigree.'


This was appealing to Lady Eockminster's
weak point, and for a moment she was
silenced.

You can't deny that the sound of the thing

'THAT man: 121

is awful,' she said, bluntly, plucking up her
courage after a few minutes' silence.

The sound of what thing ? '

Why, that a Several, the future Marquis of
Matlock, should marry a Jewess.'

'A popular misapprehension may make it so ;
but western aristocracy is a very mushroom
affair compared with that of an ancient race
whose kings and princes have left records of
such marvellous wisdom, splendour, and kingly
state as we find in the stories of the kings of
Israel. The most ancient aristocracy in Europe
is a thing of yesterday compared with it ; and
when I hear people laboriously explaining that
a distinguished Jewish statesman is not a
parvenu because he can claim ancestry who
flourished under the Venetian Republic, I can
only smile at the superficiality and ignorance
which chalks that up, as an exceptional and
specially satisfactory feature in a race, whose
kings and princes where of extraordinary antiquity
at the beginning of the Christian era.

Why don't you marry her yourself? ' asked
the lady, vexed and baffled, yet not knowing
what to object to the argument.

If you knew Esther Eodostamos, Madam 
you would not ask me such a question.'

122 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

There was implied rebuke in Graham's
grave tones and still graver face. The manner
of his address was unconventional, yet
could not be designated impolite ; and when he
shortly afterwards rose and left her rude ladyship
to ' chew the cud of sweet and bitter '
comment, she felt a general sense as of reproof,
that nettled her dominant spirit.

'A very upstart, underbred person, your
friend, the painting-man, George,' she said to
her nephew next day. ' I suppose he was
brought up for a village schoolmaster before he
took to painting sign-posts. I have observed
that that obscure sort of person always assumes
airs of independence, and tries to appear very
learned. It's lille grocers' assistants ; they are
obliged to know how to spell and write, so
that they may be correct in making out the
bills, you know.'

Poor old Graham ! ' said Lord Dovedale,
kindly ; ' he's an Oxford man, so I suppose he's
mastered the three E's ; and he had a tidy
little property of his own at one time ' "

What ! alone ? ' said Lord Adamant, as he
came upon the angry Dowager, after Graham
had taken his ceremonious leave. 'What
would you like to do ? Make a tour of the

'THAT MAN: 123

rooms ? I'm afraid your ladyship is dull !
Fact is, not half my people have come. All
the world and his wife are chez la helle Esther
where private theatricals are the order of the
night.'

What impertinence in a person of that
sort presuming to compete with an Embassy
reception ! But I am sick of the young
woman's very name. Why don't you call her
Miss, or Mademoiselle, or Frowlean, or whatever
's the Eussian for it ? I can understand
calling a milliner Jane Clarke, or an actress
Rose Green ; but why a young lady should bespoken
of by every jackanapes after that familiar
fashion, unless she's an impudent baggage, I
can't understand ! '

Baggage, me no baggages ! ' said Lord
Adamant, smiling his most courteous smile. ' I
take it there's a little bit of sentiment, and a
good bit of Eussian in it. You know my swineherd
may address me by my unvarnished patronymic
in Euss. As, for instance, " Michaelson
of Gregory, incline thine ear." And then

there is a something about Esther Dwell

 the young lady in question, so unconventional,
so out of the common, so original, and
simple, and altogether natural, that '' Miss "

124 eut CSAR AUT NIHIL.

seems to vulgarise lier. You might as well
say Miss Hebe or Miss Galatea to Pygmalion's
famed creation as Miss Eodostamos to our belle
Esther. No! taking it all round, we can't
improve on Esther Eodostamos for appropriate
picturesqueness.'

As to picturesqueness, better leave that to
the painting-man. You all of you talk a great
deal of nonsense about her. I only hope you
don't encourage my poor deluded boy.'

It is plain you don't know anything of
passports. Dovedale, whom I presume you
mean, is neither poor, deluded, nor a boy. He
strikes me as a young man who knows uncommonly
well what he wants.'

Laugh if you like ; but for all that he will
find that he can't marry the young person.'

Because she won't have him ! By the way,
you must be careful how you speak. These
Eussians are terrible linguists, and English
comes to them in the cradle. Esther Eodosta-
mos is hen vue a la cour. Her father's
services, her own beauty, and her fabulous
wealth, make her a great little personage '

And Russia is called a Conservative
country ! '

I can forgive such Conservatism as that ! '

THAT man: 125

Just like a man. Because of a pretty face
you are ready to forswear a principle.'

As you always knew I was a man, you
can't justly find fault with me for my masculine
imperfections. And it so happens that in the
present instance the Man jumps with the
Minister.'

Out of these and a dozen similar conversations
Lady Eockminster gathered but small
comfort. She had expected a ballet-girl and
he found a muse, or a goddess, or a queen, or
anything else of an exceptional, phenomenal,
majestical, or extravagant nature, according to
the person and mood of the victim of Esther's
charms. Here was no question of buying off,
bribing into good behaviour, pensioning, or
enlisting the services of the valet. She had,
for once, allowed her imagination, or the
paucity of her information and the impatience
of her temper, to mislead her ; she felt her
position to be absurd, and she confessed that
her calculations were useless.

You can't spend your life running after a
woman who won't look at you,' she said, not
unjustly, to her nephew, hoping the scoff might
rouse his pride.

I not only can, I do.'

126 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Duty calls yoii home. Your father.'

Does he ? Did he say so ? '

And Lady Eock, who would have told the
lie duty expected of her, without flinching,
like the blunt Britannia that she was, coidd
only wag her head in feeble protest, as who
should say ' Not exactly ; but he ought, and so
ought you.'

Ought I to call on Lady Eockminster ? '
Esther asked artlessly of Graham. ' What is the
etiquette ? You know, and I don't. She is
the stranger ; but then she is a great lady, and
it might look like forwardness, or presumption,
or ill-breeding on my part. I have lived in so
many different places that I am quite confused
on these points. You English are too proud,
as a rule, to make the first advances. You
expect us to take you at your own estimate,
and to crave the honour of your acquaintance,
your pride and reserve notwithstanding. In
other countries it is the stranger, the newcomer,
who presents his credentials, and leaves
his cards.

Graham, who was aware of Lady Eock-
minster's sentiments, could not, whatever the
etiquette of the case, and of that he was
equally ignorant with his questioner, advise

'THAT man: 127

Esther to call upon her autocratic ladyship.


I don't pretend to understand this sort of
thing myself,' he said, ' but if she wants to
know you, she can easily do so through her
nephew. Lady Eockminster is a very rude,
and I think a very vulgar old woman. She
prides herself upon what she calls " speaking
the truth ; " but then, she believes that she hasa
monopoly of the truth, and no one else must
attempt to do to her as she does to others.
If you had been at the Embassy the other
night you would have come across her naturally ;
as you were not, I should leave her alone.'

But, by degrees. Lady Eock was almost
driven to crave an introduction to the object
of her animosity. Lord Dovedale was not disposed
to resent his aunt's backwardness. He
feared her uncouth manner might encourage
Esther's unfavourable disposition, and he
could not bear the idea of his bright, unaffected,
artless Love being hurt or wounded by a
peevish old woman. ' Now that you know I'm
not in love with a ballet-girl, aunt, it seems tome
your mission is at an end.'

I consider this far worse, George. I
cannot think what drop of degenerate blood in

128 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

you can blind you to the absurdity of dreaming
such a marriage possible.' But when Lord
Dovedale had pointed out that the contemporary
world was governed very much by
members of the Jewish race ; when he spoke
of D'Israeh, recognised already in his green
and salt days by the wit of the woman on
whose head he later had the triumph of
placing a viscountess's coronet, whilst he refused
a peerage for himself (the idol of the
proudest aristocracy in the world) ; when he
told her that Bismarck's maternal grandmother
had been a Jewess, and that Lasker
and Sin son in Prussia, Achille Would,
Cremieux, and Gambetta in France, as well as
the Esterhazys in Austria were either of
Hebrew origin or had Jewish blood in their
veins ; that Napoleon's marshals, Soult and
Masses, had both been Jews, the good lady
was fain to cry mercy, and to confess that the
government of the world and the aspects of the
body politic, good, bad, or indifferent, owed
much to the presence of Jewish intellect and
Jewish character in its council chambers. He
pointed to half a dozen well-known names. Conservative
and Liberal, in the alternating British
ministries of Oriental origin, and socially he

'THAT man: ,29

brought forth examples of Jewish ladies,
notably One, of whom the whole world spoke
(and speaks) affectionately and respectfully, who,
herself born in a modest sphere of life, the
daughter and the sister of professional men,
had yet so well known how to win all suffrages
that ' Society ' had accepted her without question
as one of its most popular leaders. Her
salon, rivalling that of the then Prime Minister,
had included all that was best in birth and
talent of the day, and her conduct, tact, and
sweetness of nature had been such that she had
won and held the affections of four successive
husbands, and had worn her coronet and her
ermine with a grace so consummate that no
other vice-Queen had, within the memory of
man, illustrated so popular and brilliant a
viceregal court as hers.

To point to the strange supremacy of a
marvellous race in the realms of art and
science, to advocate and demonstrate the aristocracy
of intellect, would, in Lady Eock's
case, have been but love's labour lost ; but
when her nephew told her of the European
fame and the vast political and social influence
of Kahel, a Prussian Jewess without wealth or
the prestige of either beauty or birth, who,

VOL. III. K

Iso AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

in the earlier part of the century had reigned
supreme in the modest Berlin drawing-room
where Varnhagen von Sense delighted to see not
only the homage of princes and potentates but
that of every stranger of note, offered to his
brilliant, generous-souled, noble-minded Jewish
wife. Lady Eock understood that a few vulgar
objections, stereotyped platitudes, or' harsh
commonplaces on her part could have but
little influence with a man, who could call up
the liberal argument of abundant fact on his
side to silence them. ' Why even here, shamefully
as the Jews are treated, it is impossible to
refuse them recognition,' he said. ' Ignatius is
supposed to be of Jewish origin, and the
princely house of Narration claims direct
descent from King David. Caster in Spain,
Gambetta in France, Minghetti in Italy, and
Beaconsfield in England, are not men, my dear
aunt, whom after historians will be likely to
ignore. If you do not know that Benevolence,
no truer friend than Sir Moses Montefiore, as
much the benefactor of Christians as of his own
race, it is that you do not care to know such
things. The Jews of Germany sent a munificent
subscription to the Cologne Cathedral
Restoration Fund, and the late Baron A.

'THAT man: 131

Oppenlieim left fifty thousand thaler to "be
equally divided between the Christian and the
Jewish poor.'

After wrangling with him for weeks, Lady
Eockminster suddenly changed front. She
dropped the subject of his infatuation altogether,
and to Lord Adamant's intense relief
announced her intention of going home.

K 2

i-,2 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Chapter XXXIX.

ERCLES' VEIN.'

Esther Eodostamos was seated in the pretty
morning room where we have already seen her.
Fraulein Fest had gone to sleep over her
knitting. The heiress, notwithstanding her gay
spirits, was oppressed. A heavy cloud hung
over the political horizon, and her keen and
sensitive spirit saw, in anticipation, troublous
times coming for the unhappy people whose
martyrdom, patiently endured for centuries, is
not yet counted, by prejudiced Christendom,
to have expiated the error of their remote
ancestry. Chelanska had again been cruelly
insulted, in another quarter of the town, and
Esther's prophetic soul, revealed to her pensive
mood, no more than the wanton outrages and
brutal persecutions of a later date were destined
to fully verify and confirm.

A sound as of many tongues, dispute,

'ERCLES' vein: 133

appeal, a polyglot hubbub reached her from the
corridor, and before her fears had time to take
form, the door was pushed open and a short,
stout person, clothed in rusty black, her
garments fashioned after a bygone mode, her
features strongly marked and flushed with
indignation, her bonnet considerably awry,
stood before her.

In a moment Esther recognised the eccentric
English woman, whose uncouth manners
and shabby costume had been the subject of
so much St. Petersburg gossip and ridicule.

Lady Eockminster, I am sure ! I am so
sorry,' Esther began at once, ' my people do
not understand English. A card would have
explained all things, and saved you much
annoyance. Pray excuse whatever may have
been amiss in your reception.'

Lady Eockminster stared. ' How do you
know who I am ? ' she said.

Esther smiled. How should she not know ?
But she only said, very sweetly and prettily,
with her quaint little English accent, ' I think,
I am sure, that you are Lady Eockminster.'

As Lady Eock despised French, the
language in which Esther had first addressed
her, and had never heard the expression

134 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL,

mes gens,'  ' my people,' had been taken by
lier to signify that Hebrew race which she so
heartily despised.

If your people don't know English, how
come you to speak it so well ? ' she asked.

And Esther, all unsuspecting : ' Oh, because,
you see, I am educated, and they are not. My
dear father was very particular on that point.'

A rabble horde of greasy, ill-fed, hooknosed,
ringleted, tribal dependents in the
background, filled poor Lady Eock's mental
orbit of vision. In fancy she beheld them,
with appalling distinctness, winding away in
alexandrine length from Dan to Beersheba,
and thence via Jerusalem and the Need Sea to
Houndsditch and Whitechapel, with Several
Park, like a city of refuge in the dim distance,
and Matlock House, by the machinations of
the oriental enchantress, turned into a sort of
monumental Hebrew hospital for the remnant
of the ten tribes tired of travelling. The thing
must be looked to !

I dare say you wonder why I've come.*

As she said the words she felt, rather than
thought, that even a jon-ney to St. Petersburg
might not, to some romantic fools, seem vain,
with the prospect of Esther's welcome, at the

*ERCLES' vein: 135

end of it. The girl's rare and radiant loveliness
was a revelation to the selfish, rude old woman.

I am very glad that you have been so
kind as to come. I hope you will like us,
though I'm afraid the climate chills favourable
impressions. I know Lord Dovedale, and any
friend of his must be welcome to me,' Esther
answered, with gentle hospitality.

That's just what I've called about. Since
he is determined to marry you, and no one can
help it, why do you talk all this stuff about
your origin? They told me no one would
guess it ; and now I've seen you, I can vouch
for the truth of that to the Marquis. You've
no right to do it ; to humiliate Dovedale and
lower yourself. Promise me not to bring all
the tribe of poor relations you call " my
people " ames gens) over with you. I'm told
that Jews always stick together, and the
poorest man is not shaken off by the richest.
Leave all your old connections behind you, and
I will drop my objections, and tell the Marquis
plainly that I am on your side, ready to introduce
you at Court, and to the County.'

Esther, perfectly understanding the words,
yet bewildered at the old woman's audacity,
could only stare in incredulous silence.

136 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

After all, riches and beauty count for
something ; and, as your name tells no tales,
no one need know a word about it ; though,
for the matter of that, Dovedale tells me a
score of the people most courted in Society
have Jewish blood in their veins ; and an
ambitious little lord, who looks to be premier,
had just married a Jewess. It was not so in
my time, and I still think we ought to keep
the thing a secret amongst ourselves, and no
one be a bit the wiser. Dovedale has duties
at home which he ought not to neglect ; and if
you, my dear, will only promise what I ask, I
will do my best to smooth matters over with
his father.'

You are mistaken. Madam,' Esther
answered, blushing up to her eyes, and
struggling hard to keep down her rising
anger, ' although Lord Dovedale, both as
Lord George Several, and since he has succeeded
to what I am told is a more important
title, has done me the honour to ask me to be
his wife '

It is to your credit that you showed a very
proper and becoming diffidence '

Excuse me. Madam, we have not come to
that yet  did me the honour to ask me to be

'Eccles vein: iyj

his wife, I at once declined. That being so,
and since I shall never alter my determination,
I perhaps do not need to answer what does not
apply to the situation. Had I been able to
love your nephew I should have married him.
If his relations had received me ill, I should
have regretted it more on his account than on
my own ; but I should have married him all
the same, and I should never have denied my
mother or my race '

Is your father nothing ? Don't you bear
your father's name ? and doesn't that count ? '

Or my mother's poor, persecuted,

and unhappy race,' Esther continued, not
noticing the interruption. 'I will marry no
man who is ashamed of me, because the blood
in my veins is Jewish blood, and I should despise
and think him a poor and mean-spirited
creature, weak and unmanly, who could stoop
to suppress facts or impose conditions on mein
compliance with a vulgar, ignorant, and
ridiculous prejudice.'

No one would take you for a Jewess.
And with your immense fortune you doubtless
are justified in looking for rank and position,'
pleaded Lady Eock, interrupting Esther's
protest.

138 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

'My fortune shall never buy me a title,
Madam. It can be better employed in rescuing
the sick, the poor, and the ignorant of my own
and other races. My position is so exactly
suited to me that I do not care to change it,
even for the companionship of so modest, true,
and kindly a gentleman as I recognise in Lord
Dovedale.'

Very proper, so long as you had not our
approval.'

Excuse me, but your approval had nothing

whatever to do with it, nor can have. But '

and Esther with one of those sudden transitions
which her friends thought so charming, changed
her tone. 'Why should I trouble you with
these heroics ? We need not be ill-friends
because you, living in your little corner of
the earth, surrounded with old-world and exploded,
if respectable, traditions, and by people
who are both ignorant and afraid to contradict
you, can only see things according to
your Httle, local, limited lights. I don't want
to  I don't mean to  marry Lord Dovedale,
and that is enough, or ought to be, to win
at least your toleration. I am not angry with
you, or at least I will not be angry any longer.
It is not your fault if you think the mushroom

'ERCLES' vein: 139

races of yesterday of great importance. My
people were the Ancients of the Earth long
before the great upheaval which broke your
little crumb of mould off the corner of a continent,
and when, for aught I know, the
Peverils were nothing but jelly-fish,' Esther
cried, with a laugh that was half-apologetic,
half-defiant. ' But where,' she went on, ' in
the history of other races, can you find such
noble records of warriors, prophets, priests and
kings as amongst my favoured race ? Is it any
wonder, when you come to think of it, that I
am proud of the lovely lives our poets have
painted for us ? Is not the Eoyal singer
crowned Minstrel-King for ever, whose songs
have outsung the lays of your mediaeval troubadours,
now perished and of no effect ? And
are not David's psalms as sweet to-day as when
he soothed Saul's troubled spirit, as sacred
and as solemn as they have been throughout
immemorial ages? What women, ancient or
modern, can compare with the lovely, dignified,
and yet lovable house-mother of the
Proverbs ? The exquisite idyll of Ruth
amongst the corn, and the close comfort of her
words to Naomi, have been the model of the
later poets, and of many a loving woman's

Ito AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

heart since then ; but none have touched the
tender grace of the Hebrew gleaner with her
firm fidelity, her strong, unswerving, simple
love and truth ? Is there a passion or
emotion of our common daily life that does not
find its counterpart in the Book of Books?
What words are " familiar in our mouths as
household words," like the words of the Bible ?
I have heard Englishmen say it would not have
greatly mattered to mankind if no other books
had ever been written than the Bible and
Shakspeare. Even they put their Shakspeare,
the World-poet, second ; and how should any
woman, inheriting so glorious a birthright,
renounce it for the sake of a paltry title, conferred
by a petty king of yesterday, or deny her
race, a race which has given the world not a
book, but The Book ; not a king, but The
King, in order to flatter a mean prejudice or a
modern prevention ? '

In the hurry of her enthusiasm Esther had
not paused to consider how much of this might
be palatable or even intelligible to her visitor.

The eloquent, indignant tears were in her
eyes, and, carried away by her excited feelings,
she again unconsciously changed her note, this
time to a minor key, full of a sudden pathos

'ERCLES" vein: 141

that was, in itself, not unlike that plaint, sung
by Jewish men and maidens thousands of years
ago by the waters of Babylon, to the captors
who required of them a song in their heaviness.
Shall I forsake and deny my race because
it is poor, despised, outcast ? Is it for me to
forget what the World owes it, in favour of
races to whom it owes comparatively nothing ?
My father, an orthodox Greek, had me baptised
in the faith of his fathers, but the blood
of my mother runs warm in my veins, and
beats strong at my heart, and rises up in
protest against oppression and wrong. The
Jewish nation gave to you your Saviour. Your
model of all that is pure, and fair, and holy in
womanhood is the Jewish Maiden-Mother and,
in a lesser degree, the three Maries, pictured in
almost every painting of Christian art for
centuries past. The Eoman Emperors and
early writers looked on the Christians as a sort
of sectarian Jews, and they were right. The
Church of the present day is to primitive
Christianity what the primitive Christians were
to the Jews. In the Epistles you read of the
charities and good works of noble Jewish
ladies, of the conversion of their husbands and
children. Can there be a greater marvel than

142 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

this, that the cold, Puritanical, western peoples
place these Oriental Books, once only in the
hands of priests and doctors learned in the
Jewish law, in those of every child, no matter
how tender its age, how unripe its moral understanding,
or how unfitted to grasp and interpret
the marvels therein contained ; yet inconsistently
teach that child practically to hate and
despise the race of which its Saviour was born ?
The race of Him whose very advent it is your
boast proclaimed a gospel of peace on earth
and the glad tidings of good-will to man ! If
ever I have children,' cried the girl, rising
from her seat, and holding her hand aloft in
witness of the undertaking, ' far from hiding
my descent from them, I will teach them all
its import; I will make them proud to bear
an honour which it yet behoves them to support
modestly, seeing how great the facts, how
humble the individual ! ' And, out of breath,
she sank into her seat, looking the generous
defiance she fancied she had not spoken.

Tell your housekeeper to ring for my
carriage,' said Lady Eockminster, nodding her
head in the direction of Fraulein Fest, who sat
staring with stolid astonishment at her excited
protegee.

ERCLES' vein:



For the first time in her life Lady Eock
recognised that she was conquered. 'Eccles'
vein ' was quenched with a vengeance by the
peremptory request, and the overstrung girl
saw in a moment all the comically of the
scene, all its temerity and possible impertinence,
all the absurdity and futility of her
tirade. Her sense of humour cleared the air.

'Now you will go away thinking me a
mad-creature and a boor,' she said laughing,
and laying her hand caressingly on Lady
Eock's shrivelled black glove, 'as well as
hating me for being a Jewess. No ! you must
forgive me, and say that you forgive me before
I can let you go. I am not so bad as I seem.
There are excuses for me if you only knew
them. Let me try to redeem my character !
Fraulein Fest (she is not my housekeeper but
my dear friend and kind duenna) will give us
some tea, and you must let me do something,
though I can't think what it can be, to expiate
my sins. Will you come and see my winter
garden? Do you care for music? Shall I
sing you some Eussian national airs? They
are so plaintive, so calm and resigned, so full
of a sort of hopeless tenderness, that they
exorcise all demons of pride and rebellion,

144 eut CSAR AUT NIHIL.

and make one feel as good as a little child who
has been naughty and is forgiven, and once
more at rest in its mother's arms.'

And thus prattling, and coaxing, and playfully
pleading for forgiveness, Esther completely
won her way into the grim old woman's heart.
She sang for her, showed her the house and
conservatories, undraped the famous picture for
her, brought her a fragrant cup of Joltoi Chai
or caravan tea, with her own pretty hands,
gathered a bouquet for her ; and, in a word,
fairly fascinated and subdued her quondam
enemy.

All her aggressiveness charmed out of her,
Lady Eockminster stepped meekly into one of
Esther's carriages (the Embassy vehicle, getting
tired of waiting, had unceremoniously departed),
and was driven back in silence to her own
quarters.

Good-bye, and God bless you my dear,'
she said, utterly conquered. ' I wish you could
have made up your mind to take Dovedale.'

The blemish of birth notwithstanding ? '

You must forget all that. Perhaps even
now you may change your mind. Think of it.'

No. Lord Dovedale deserves a better fate,
and you abetter niece.'

'ERCLES' vein: 145

There is none better.'

And so, strangely softened and subdued,
the grim old woman was whirled away into
the darkness.

Lord Dovedale was both interested and
curious when the fact of his aunt's clandestine
visit transpired. Both ladies were very reticent
on the subject, Esther referring him to
Lady Eock for information.

Isn't she lovely, Aunt  ' asked the infatuated
lover.

As an angel,' answered Lady Eock, staring

at him. ' And ,' slowly, ' mad as a March

hare ! '

And so clever ! and as good as she's
beautiful.'

What I call utterly blasphemous ! She
almost gave me to understand that, without
her, the New Testament would never have got
itself written, and she said the Peverils were
nothing but jelly-fish at a time when kings had
reigned in Israel for thousands of years ! '

So much for the gloss of an unprejudiced
Commentator !

I am afraid she must think me a terrible
vixen,' Esther said, smiling, when Lord Dove-dale
repeated all Lady Eock's compliments to

VOL. III. L

146 AUT Calmar AUT NIHIL.

her. * But she enraged me by pre-supposing
designs on my part, and then by suggesting I
should creep into that fold of supreme shelter,
the British Peerage, by some back way ! ' She
blushed crimson as she spoke ; but if Lord
Dovedale would not take ' No ' for an answer,
there was no good in blinking the question.

It is because I stand on neutral ground,'
she went on, ' that I feel at liberty to plead the
cause of a despised people. It may be true, as
one of your own poets  or rather one of more
liberal race  has said, that " the dead nations
never rise again ! " but surely it is time that
persecution ceased. When I think of the
centuries of Christian hate, that have driven
these Ishmael and Hagar of mankind overland
and sea, when I remember the Ghettos
and Juden-Strassen of Europe, and how
Christian feet spurned every accursed
Mordecai, and the Ages shouted the " Anathema
Maran-atha" from the amphitheatre of
the Caesar, to the " Yate retro " of mediaeval
centuries of Papal Excommunication ; when I
think of the Eoman races where horses, asses,
buffaloes, and Jews were forced to run ; the
outcast Israelite naked, with a rope round his
neck and a cloth round his loins, whilst Popes

'ERCLES' vein: 147

and noble ladies looked on and laughed, and
the populace applauded to see the ignominy
that lent such piquancy to " a Eoman holiday,"
I feel that there would be baseness unspeakable
in denying the blood that runs warm in my
veins ! '

For all reply, Lord Dove dale stooped and
kissed her hand.

L 2

148 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

CHAPTER XL.

'THE STILL SMALL VOICE.'

The gloom that lay brooding over the icebound
city was dispelled by such an illumination
as ht up Europe from north to south, from
east to west, by its lurid and portentous glare.

The cold had been long, black, and bitter.
The illness that had plucked at the purple
skirts of a phantasmagoric empire, and had
rolled the crown from a head laid low, kept its
grip upon the Imperial sufferer, as though with
a jealous reluctance to sign and seal the order
for release, and hand it over to ' The Shadow
cloaked from head to foot,' whose ghastly footsteps
haunted the palace corridors, hid behind
the hangings of those inner chambers, peeped
through cracks and crevices, and yet had to
bide its time ere it could be finally proclaimed
Conqueror and King.

Ghastly whispers went the round of some
impending disaster ; horrible words, spoken

'THE STILL SMALL VOICE.' 149

with bated breath, with backward glances, and
half-formulated suggestions, that muttered in
the closet would be counted high treason, and
proclaimed on the housetops must surely have
cost the imprudent herald his head.

Eumour reported the Eoyal and Imperial
recluse long since dead, and asserted that Her
faithless spouse, tormented by a thousand vague
fears, no longer dared to sleep in his bed at
night ; that a waxen effigy laid on the Imperial
couch was ministered to, in horrible dumb-show,
the counterfeit presentment of dead-antigone
Majesty, deceiving none but the baser and
more ignorant sort of those employed about the
Empress's apartments.

It was said that the courtiers, divining in
their master the morbid fear of death, added
to the natural shrinking of humanity from the
finality of the event, had invented this subtle
method of flattering their Sovereign's weakness
; and that by an unspoken convention,
day by day, the fiction of the diurnal visit
(which the enthralling charms of a new toy
had for a time interrupted), was renewed and
carried on, questions asked, and suggestions
made, by the attendant physicians, playing out
the ghastly comedy of death to its last act.

ISO AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Report declared that the midnight obsequies
had taken place in secret, no pomp or
circumstance (as is the wont when Kings and
Queens put off their ermine, and resign the
crown and sceptre of their State), attending the
maimed rites. The necessary certificate, the
official report, conveyed to the chamber of the
secret archives, would be enough to tell later
inquirers that the dust beneath the chapel altar
was indeed that of the mother of the reigning
line, and more than this was not needed.

And it was no wonder, said the apologists,
if secrecy enveloped the matter.

Mourning, court-mourning, town-mourning,
the trapping of official woe, could not come at
a more inopportune period. The country, distracted
with internal rebellion, bleeding from a
hundred wounds received in recent wars, weeping
tears of blood for the holocausts of needlessly
slain, was in no condition to suffer the superimposed
strain of gratuitous grief.

National mourning the laud was indeed
already called upon to suffer ; but that of a
nature not expressed by the outward trapping
of ostensible woe. The mourning was rather
for its reproach amongst the nations, for its retrospect
of failure, for the often-delayed pro-the

STILL SMALL VOICE: 151

mises, kept to the ear and broken to the heart ;
for gallant sons dead on distant plains, the
victims of national arrogance and incompetent
folly.

Bleeding at every pore, choked with grief
and tears, prone in the dust, a great nation
humbled to the very ground, the rulers of the
people, it Vias said, felt that this present was no
time for making broad the ornamental phylacteries
of a fictitious woe, or insulting the
broken hearts of a much enduring, faithful,
patient population with the mere Pageantry of
grief.

If, indeed, that pale ghost, vanished into
Shadow-land, had silently taken flight. Heaven
was richer by a saint the more, and earth
none the poorer because of a sorrowing woman
the less !

The Unseen, reacting on imaginations sated
with reality, assumes undue proportions in the
superstitious mind ; and the poorer populations,
who had been wont to associate the name of
the dying recluse with works of mercy, and
upon whose submissive lips, prayers for their
sovereign rulers took the form of divine honours
paid (as of worship to the very gods themselves),
had come so to confound the saintly

152 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

person of the Sovereign with the Unapproachable,
that the Empress-saint shared, in their
imaginations, on equal terms the bliss and rule
of Heaven with the blessed Virgin herself.

On one side of the Winter Palace the first
Lady of the Land lay, painfully gasping out the
remnant of a painful life, whilst Within the
enceinte of the same building and under the
same roof, the husband of her youth, the father
of her children, subjugated by some subtle
enchantment, let his days slip past unredeemed,
deaf to the cries and prayers of his unhappy
people.

Not wicked, but weak ; not evil-minded,
but vacillating, seeing the Good, but consenting
to the Evil ; promising to-day, procrastinating
tomorrow, swayed by the stronger wills of
those about him to acts of harshness opposed
to his own nature. Thwarted by his heir ;
disgraced by relatives, whose conduct (a byword
and a reproach) had destroyed his
lingering faith in the integrity of humanity at
large ; world-weary, hopeless, without energy ;
unable to stop short, to break, to take the
initiative, and begin again upon another plan
with what He most enjoyed ; contented least,
envying, amongst his brother monarchs ' this

'THE STILL SMALL VOICE: 153.

man's art ' to govern, ' that man's scope ' to
foresee, the monarch of the millions, yet a
broken-hearted, disappointed, hopeless Being,
witnessing, in his own person, the death and
destruction of those liberal ideas which had
illustrated his Prime and flattered the hopes
of his people, in the generous promise of Ills'
Youth.

As we know, the Empress was not yet
dead.

By what means (probably by none other
than those of their common faith, to which,
having been forced to conform on her marriage,
the dying Lady was devoted), pledges had been
exacted from Helena Perowska which must
affect her whole future life, no one but herself
knew. Vows imposed by the dying upon the
soul of another are of all vows the most
binding. Morally they may be unjustifiable.
Reason may be convinced by arguments used
against them ; and yet the sensitive conscience
cannot bring itself to acknowledge them null
and void, or to break its pledged word to the
dead.

Loyalty to the dead outweighs the logic of
the living, and it is well that it should be so.
Por those whom we have lost, we can now do

154 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

nothing but keep implicit faith with them. If
we are faithless to the living, we are punished,
if not by Conscience, yet, in that we go in fear
of discovery  any moment, any chance may
reveal our defection ; and reproach, and scorn,
and loss of love and esteem, bring the enormity
of our mean faithlessness home to us.

But disloyalty to the dead has a deeper
smart and a keener reproach, though it be
only our own consciences that accuse us. They,
the holders of our broken promises, or our
forsaken faith, are as the dumb, in whose
mouths are found no reproach. They mutely
gaze at us across the gulf with wide and
wistful eyes, and out of the Eternal Silences
make no sign. If we have wronged them,
borne false witness to them by word or deed,
been faithless and forgetful,  to whom may
we not be false and faithless ? And how shall
the living put trust in one who is disloyal to
the dead ?

Mellin, forced by Bianca's attitude into
unwilling contact, had used her as an emissary
on more than one occasion requiring skilful
treatment at the Winter Palace. The Countess
Perowska's visits to the dying Lady made it only
natural that her companion should accompany

'THE STILL SMALL VOICE: 155

her. Persons and things must be tested, times
and seasons accurately noted, the required
information be so skilfully acquired as to seem
the natural result of gossip, rather than the
crux upon which mighty events hung.

Waiting for hours in the Countess's sledge,
the confines of the courtyard grew irksome to
Bianca.

In this vast Winter Palace tradition asserted
six thousand human beings were housed, to say
nothing of flocks of sheep and herds of kine.
The cellars swarmed, the. lofts were populated,
and it seemed nobody's business to question the
self-arrogated privilege of many of the incongruous
dwellers beneath the Imperial roof.

Stories were told of the burning down of
the Palace, and typical of the iron will of the
Czar Nicholas was the anecdote of his commands
that the new Palace should be rebuilt
within a year. He was respectfully informed
that such a tour de force was a human impossibility.
His answer, ' It must be done ! ' set
thousands of workmen on their mettle. But as
the cruel cold increased, the bricklayers cried
that the mortar would not mix, the moisture
froze before it could be absorbed. Huge fires
were lighted, and night and day the myriad

156 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

lorde laboured at their task. Just as it was
completed, the roof of the vast reception-hall,
fell in, and crushed all heart out of the work-people
physically and morally. An official
communicated the disaster to the Emperor.
Let it be remedied ' was his reply. And 
so much for the force of will  the new Winter
Palace stood on the site of the old, thin the
year prescribed by Imperial decree.

This and similar anecdotes ran through
Bianca's mind as she looked up at the suite of
rooms in one of which the ' icy-hearted
Muscovite ' breathed his last. There she had
been shown the common Persian rug, the worn-out
slippers, in use, as the custodian said,
twenty-eight years ; there his grey military cloak
lies folded on the hard camp bed upon which
he died. His sword and helmet are where
he left them. On the table is the report of
the Quarter-Master-General, delivered to the
Emperor on the morning of the day on which
he expired. A grenadier of the Golden Guard
of the Palace, always on duty over these relics
of the ' never-to-be-forgotten Tsar,' points to
the window, across which He gazed in the
supreme moment of heart-broken defeat at the
frozen Neva, the Isaac Bridge, the gilded dome

'THE STILL SMALL VOICE: 157

of the Isaac Church, away towards his port of
Cronstadt, and knew,  Hke an antique hero, 
that this was the fitting moment for him to die !

Bianca remembered to have read in the
journal of a great Queen how, when the splendid
Autocrat visited Windsor, impressing everybody
by his noble, manly beauty, and serene,
dominant manner, he brought in his personal
habits the simplicity of the camp, into kings'
palaces with him ; and the first thing his valets
did, on being shown his bedroom at Windsor
Castle, was to send to the stable for some
trusses of clean straw, in order to fill the
leathern case which formed a mattress for the
little camp bed on which he slept, and on
which, thirteen years later, he  the vanquished
foe of his then Hostess  drawing his military
cloak across his eyes, in the anguish which a
proud spirit suffers in the bitter hour of supreme
defeat, turned his face to the wall  to die !

In her wanderings, Bianca made more than
one acquaintance, standing idly, talking with
anyone who came in her way ; asking trivial
questions, sometimes of servants, workpeople,
even cooks and confectioners ; the children
coming and going, a stray dog, a bird, a
dvornik or herdsman giving the text for what

Is AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

might seem gossip, chatter, of the most futile
and desultory.

Bianca was elate. The sense of responsibility,
the self-importance, the excitement, the
pride as of a trust reposed in her, gave a light
to her eyes, a joy to her countenance, a spirit
to her step, that had been sadly absent of late.
I do not understand  I love,' was the motif
running through the symphony. She lived,
and was contented to live, entirely in the
present. She rested in the sufficiency of the
day, and acknowledged, what seemed to her,
the goodness thereof.

As for Mellin, his prejudice deepened and
widened. A chance word of banter let fall by
the Countess, a sly allusion of Julie KerezoflTs,
repeating the idle gossip of a passing hour,
made Bianca's presence unspeakably distasteful
to him. How had she managed to thrust
herself into his councils, and become one of
his implements ? He confessed it was a concession,
and he feared that  like all concessions
it was a compromise which pledged him to
more than was apparent. To him, a man whose
initial articles of faith declare that the brethren
must be ' resigned beforehand to torture and
death ; must have no personal affairs, nor

'THE STILL SMALL VOICED 159

interests, nor feelings, nor private property;
must be prepared to die, or send to death, to
devote and to destroy, without prejudice or
favour, be it himself, his family, his friends or
his enemies, so it were for the good of coming
generations,' such a man must necessarily
condemn all personal scruples as petty, false,
and against the spirit of the code to which he
subscribes.

Bianca must be got rid of. Quietly, in such
a way as to excite no suspicion, yet so as to
remove a stumbling-block of offence from his
path, so as to reassure his mind, and save ' the
Cause ' from danger of betrayal at her inconsequent
hands. Why was she here? Why had
he been persuaded, against his better judgment,
to affihate her to ' the Order ? ' Why should he
run the risk, which he felt to be imminent,
of her imprudence, folly, and impulsiveness?
She had come to weigh upon him like an
incubus. He hated her with an irrational
hatred, and hated her doubly for the hatred
she inspired. He felt that he was ever on the
brink of being made ridiculous by this little
raw English schoolgirl. And, in his darker
moods of vexation and impatience, he told himself
he was a fool for suffering scruples to obtain

i6o A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

in her case which in any other he would dismiss
as superfluous and imbecile.

Thus he had arrived at a determination.
To-day, a few hours hence, and the matter
would have passed out of his control, and befor
ever set at rest. Had not hundreds of
women perished in the attempt to change the
Unchangeable? What was one life out of
millions ? What if she were a stranger ?
Hospitality ceases to be appropriate in a
household. Brothers and sisters take their
chances of good and evil alike, and make no
apology. What if she were too young, too
unripe of judgment, to know her own mind ?
Bah ! sages, hoary-headed men, had arrived
at the same result. Her youth had been passed
under influences far other than the present ;
those associations had been to her like ropes
of sand, or chains of water. No ! the martyrs
to a cause are, after all, the elite of that cause ;
and the canonised of all calendars are envied
by their obscurer brethren. Scruple ? Conscience
? Self-reproach ? Bah ! well enough
for feeble drivellers, fit for old women's tales.

His pen had signed and sealed Bianca's fate.

As he laid it down, he told himself that he
envied her, so soon, and so well, out of the

THE STILL SMALL VOICE: ici

hurly-burly. What had she done to deserve
this ' happy despatch ? ' No more toil and
trouble. Best and the Consummation, conventionally
supposed, to be devoutly wished
for.

His musings and melancholy were disturbed
by Julie KerezofF. An involuntary exclamation
of impatience broke from him, his coveted
few minutes of rest hopelessly wrecked before
his eyes.

She saw the gesture and divined his mood.
There was a tacit coolness between the two.
Both knew and felt it. ' She would not keep
him a moment,' she said ; ' but would he seethe
Countess alone, and explain to her what
Julie herself could not ? A letter from Hero
Martello had come to her, enclosing one to
Bianca. Mr. Owen was dead, and the mother
feared the effect of the news upon her impulsive,
excitable child. She, Hero, knew no one in
St. Petersburg but Julie de Kerezoff, or she
would not have taken the liberty ; but for her
child's sake, &c. &c. &c.'

She knew me,' said MeUin gruffly.

In fancy he saw her, beautiful and full of
grace, at the Marquis of Matlock's soiree singing
like an angel, the flattered guest of the dilettante

VOL. III. M

ici AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

peer. He saw her leaning above the parapet at
Sprudelheim, uttering those vague, melancholy
words, Ml of mysterious yearnings and unutterable
pity, over the vast army of toiling
and suffering Humanity. He saw her as she
bade him farewell, putting her hand into his,
after the loyal English fashion, unsuspicious,
frank, friendly. She did not guess that his
wild doctrines were already estranging her
child from her ; that rebellion, like a grain of
mustard seed, sown in a young, passionate,
undisciplined nature, would soon grow to a
vast poisonous tree, casting a chill shade upon
the love and trust that had borne such bright
blossoms hitherto. And here he was murdering
her child ! Devoting her daughter to death ;
mercilessly, without scruple or hesitation, sentencing
the mother to life-long solitude and
never-ending regret. A groan as of remorse
involuntarily broke from his lips.

You are bored,' said Julie. ' It is wearisome,
I know ; of coin-se, if you absolutely
cannot, I must.'

'It is well, Julie Petrovna  go  go,' he
said, and pointed to the door.

'I go, Serge Constantinovitch,' she answered,
and closed the door behind her.

'THE STILL SMALL VOICE: 163

The early afternoon was waning. The
painful labour of his day was lost.

All he had written must be cancelled,
destroyed. An hour later the document would
have passed into other hands, and Bianca would
have gone to her destruction. One chance
in a hundred might save her ; but on that
one remote chance he dared no longer rest.
Quick, with pen and ink, to repair the wrong.
One brief peremptory note to the girl herself,
requiring her immediate presence. A line to
the Countess, appointing an hour to see her at
her own home, and then the weariful minute
instructions to be conveyed to 'Primus,' the
Head of the secret Executive. As he wrote, the
vision of Hero by her widowed, childless, fatherless
hearth, rose up between him and the paper,
and smote him with reproach.

The gaze of those large, sorrowful, pathetic
eyes looking upwards at him was almost more
than he could bear. He passed his hand
rapidly across his eyes, and wrote on at the
eleventh hour. All made ready, every detail
recorded, every contingency provided against,
with a sense as of narrow escape from irrevocable
disaster, he heaved a sigh of unconscious

M 2

i64 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

relief, and threw himself back in his chair,
mentally and morally exhausted.

Silence, profound, immense, portentous,
reigned around. Bianca could not be hereat
present. So much the better ; it would
give him time to think. Grotesque ideas of
Bianca's letter never being delivered to her,
her address being beyond postal communication,
grew and gathered, importuning his tired brain.
She and her grandfather comparing notes
about defective postal arrangements, and
telling each other the news, Hero's letter had
been intended to convey. The memory of his
own father's death ; the mounted messenger
galloping over miles of frozen snow to bring
him a boy from school, to the father's bedside.
His oath, the legacy of woe and hate that had
been his grim inheritance ; the strangeness of
Ms lonely life, illumined by any of the softer
affections growing out of love, marriage, the
family, home.

Night had fallen  the early northern
night. The city slumbered in profound calm.
Mellin, in a sort of trance, sat on undisturbed,
dreaming as it were in a state of semi-conscious
abstraction.

The sound of voices, hurried footsteps, and

'THE STILL SMALL VOICE. 165

Bianca's face upon the threshold. A moment,
and the well-trained servant had closed the
door, and disappeared again.

He rose but made no step forward to meet
her.

You sent for me ? ' she said, coming up to
his chair, ' you sent for me ? ' There was eager
inquiry in her eyes as in her voice.

'I did.'

'What for? Is anything amiss? I cannot
have missed the signal for I never stirred,
and I should have waited Adhere you told me
for ever and ever. I thought you had forgotten
me.'

He continued to look at her scrutinisingly,
with some odd speculative inquiry in his gaze
that she was at a loss to decipher. He was
wondering whether this arbitrary act of his
were not a mistake, whether it had not been
better to let things take their course? He
told himself that he had secured the future
torment of some good man's life ; he wondered,
uneasily, in what way the preordained march
of events would wreak the Nemesis of non-fulfilment?
He wondered if she would have
been much disfigured or easily recognisable ?
He said to her, in unspoken words, ' You are

1 66 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

your own ghost though you don't know it.'
Some extravagant idea that Hero owed to him
her child's life, and possibly all the future
comfort, but more probably all the future
misery of her own, these, and a hundred such
wildly foolish fancies, kept him speechless.
In some preposterous way he was henceforth
the girl's father, her providence ; he had given
her her life a second time of forethought and
will prepense ; positively, not negatively, as her
first life had been given, a mere chance, a
freak of fate or Destiny.

What is it ? ' Bianca asked timidly,
alarmed, anxious, disquieted. Why did he look
at her so oddly .? Why did he not speak ?

But almost before he could answer she had
fallen on her knees, flinging her arms wildly
around him where he stood.

My God ! my God ! save me,' she
shrieked, hiding her face in an agony of terror,
as she clasped his knees and clung to him for
protection and support.

Mellin stood erect. A strange pallor overspread
his countenance.

He was silent.

i67

CHAPTEK XLI.

THE CRACK OF DOOM.

No soothing words, no caressing touch reassured
the clinging girl. The fearful explosion,
rending and tearing the air, had produced
a detonation of the atmosphere unlike anything
within his own immediate experience :
then all was still.

The shock and terror of surprise had
paralysed Bianca's tongue. It clave to the
roof of her mouth. After her first wild, involuntary
appeal she too had been silent,
waiting for what might come. She hid her
face and trembled. This, sm-ely was the
crack of Doom ! ' ' when the heavens shall be
rolled together like a scroll,' and the order of
the Universe confounded.

This was what Mellin had been waiting
for ; this it was that had disturbed his usually
calm faculties and excited him in a manner
wholly foreign to his nature.

i68 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Yet even he could not, at a distance
measure the exact, or even the probable, extent
of mischief involved in the reverberating ruin ;
even he who had planned, could not calculate
the event. Destiny might as yet but be half
accomplished ; a recurrence of that extraordinary
concussion of the atmosphere, crackling
the very air, like some vast convulsion of
nature, like the upheaval of primeval rocks
or the crash of mighty mountains toppling
to ruin, might yet take place.

He waited.

Then, when no second shock followed the
first air-quake, he assumed that they had for
the present heard so far the conclusion of the
whole matter. He smiled to think that the
explosion which had terrified a little girl in a
back-room of St. Petersburg would reverberate
to the remotest corners of the Globe, teaching
rulers timely wisdom, warning alike Sovereigns
and Peoples of a day of final retribution after
many days of unheeded warning.

Lost in his own thoughts, he forgot the girl
at his feet. Swift-footed messengers must be
even now speeding on their portentous way
with the details of death and destruction.

Bianca took courage and looked up.

THE CRACK OF DOOM. 169.

What was it ? ' she asked, in a terrified
whisper, her hips pale, every nerve trembling
with excitement.

It was the tocsin of Liberty ! ' MeUin
answered, a cold steely light glittering in his
pale blue eyes. ' It was the knell of Tyranny !
But get up now, for I have to speak to you.'
It would be well, he thought, that the
messenger should find him alone.

 But  what else was it ? ' she asked timidly,
yet persistently. Somehow she took it for
granted that Melhn knew. She did not think
or reason, but instinct, unconsciously guided
by his manner, led her to a right conclusion.

What was it ? '

What was it ?  well  whatever else it was,
or may prove to be, it was  your death-knell ! '
he answered with cruel candour.

But Bianca's mind, shaken by this new and
awful experience, was in no condition to grasp
his meaning. She asked him again, with the
persistency of a curious child.

What was it ? '

And, with brutal frankness, he told her the
truth. 'You complained that you were not
employed, that even the humblest of the
brethren were of more use, that even in Eng-

I70 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

land you were able to do more. This  this,
as to which you question me, would have been
your mission. The unconscious messenger who
brought you my note an hoi: earlier had other
instructions. It woidd not have been your
hand that would have cast the actual die of
doom, but it would have passed through your
hands to the last agent ; indirectly it would have
been you, that compassed Fate and inaugurated
Change.'

She looked at him eagerly, her eyes dilating,
her form expanding, her attitude one of inspiration
and rapt attention.

He had elevated her to his confidence;
she was held worthy to share actively with
him in the regeneration of his country, to open
the gates of Liberty to the waiting peoples
who had knocked at the iron gates clamorously
so often in vain ; she was his delegate, his
chosen instrument, his equal, his trusted agent,
his companion, worthy to speed his plans, to
carry out his daring projects. She could see
no cruelty in it ; she would have despised any
hesitation ; she was as much in earnest in her
wild enthusiasm and hero-worship, in her
courage and inspiration, as Joan of Arc or the
Maid of Saragossa. Hers was the spirit which

THE CRACK OF DOOM. 171

leaps into the breach, fires a train, scales a
battlement, blows up the ship, leads a forlorn
hope without a second's hesitation, without a
thought of self. A strange sense of pride and
elation filled her. Her veins ran fire, her eyes
sparkled, and with parted hips and bated
breath, she hung upon his very words.

And why was I robbed of this ? ' she asked.
She addressed him as an equal. She required
an explanation of him. Where he had placed
her, there she, of right, remained ; accident
could not aJSect that fact.

Why ? ' he repeated, and frowned at her
dominant attitude.

His weakness, the vision of his one ideal,
impossible Love, widowed ere her prime, seated
in solitude by her lonely hearth, the ashes of
her childless, loveless fife at her feet, were not
reasons to give this Spartan girl. The unwonted
tenderness which the mental picture
of Hero's loneliness had called up must not be
revealed. A commonplace answer must be
found ; the more matter of fact the better.

Because I had a letter to deliver to you,'
he said shortly, ' and I had no right to keep
you in ignorance of its contents. If it could
be delivered even at the eleventh hour it ought

172 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

to be. And having said so much I must leave
you, for there are those who need me, and who
are wondering now at my absence. I will send
the Countess's carriage, or failing that, the
first lilac I meet, for you.'

And without allowing her time to reply or
any more formal farewell he went out, leaving
Bianca alone.



Chapter XLH.

'AFTER MANY Days

By a miracle the Imperial family had been
saved.

An ambassador was late ; a cousin in disgrace
[who had been provided with a distant
government and sent into exile with all the
pomp and circumstance of viceroyalty] had,
on his retmn, been invited to present himself,
and was to dine at the Palace for the first time
since his restoration to favour. The protracted
illness of the first Lady in the Land reduced all
receptions to semi-official dimensions, but the
occasion was nevertheless felt to be one o
more than usual importance. The ambassadors
of two friendly States were to be present, and
the head of the secret police ; and these, together
with a popular general, whose views
were Hastened to with deference, formed a select
party.

174 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

The sons and daughters of the Imperial
House were all assembled together.

Summoned many weeks before to what
appeared to be their mother's dying bed, they
remained from day to day to cheer her by their
presence, feeling it impossible to leave when
at any moment the gentle invalid might breathe
her last.

The small reception-room in which the
guests awaited the arrival of Him in whose
honour they were gathered together, was one
used on occasions when, being en petit connie,
the vast public apartments would be inappropriate
and uncomfortable. The assembled
company would only have to pass into the
next room, where at a certain signal, dinner
would be served.

An air of constraint marked all present.
The situation was felt to be a difficult one, and
the delay caused by the Sovereign's punctuality,
whilst it prolonged the general awkwardness,
was a cause of secret irritation to more
than one of the guests.

In a distant corner of the Palace a lovely
young woman, whose strong white arms and
finely-proportioned figure gave singular grace
and charm to her attitude, was tossing a

'AFTER MANY DAYS: 175

splendid curly-headed boy at an elderly gentleman,
who sometimes caught and kissed the
laughing urchin, and sometimes left a tender
imprint on the white hand that brushed his
cheek. The grave, careworn, heavily-lined
face relaxed into softness ; the fiercely bristling
moustache seemed to make way for the shadow
of a smile, as mother and child, exhilarated by
their game of romps, flung their arms round his
neck every time he attempted to rise, declaring
he should not go.

Tell naughty papa not to leave us ! '

Naughty papa, not leave us ! ' and fresh
kisses, and tossing, and laughter.

Well might a man give up mere pomp and
pleasure for such blissful ease as this! No
wearisome questions of policy or government,
no vexed theories of state, or precedent ! The
buckram of official life, court ceremony and
etiquette, stiff with embroideries and military
gutter, below ; and here, above, a heaven of
sheltered peace and love. And yet, no choice !

Escaping at last from the soft arms that
embraced and bound, and the sweet kisses that
silenced Him, the Euler drew himself up,
assumed his stiff military air ; the cloud, which
he would gladly have banished for ever.

176 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

settled down once more upon his furrowed
brow, and with an air of stern melancholy he
stood amongst his guests.

Five minutes later, and a yawning chasm
showed where the banqueting-table had lately
stood. The dining-room, wrecked from end
to end, ploughed and furrowed by the explosive,
the wainscoting split like matches,
the tapestry rent in strips, the plate, glass,
damask furniture engulfed, shivered, ruined ; the
flooring torn up, all enveloped in mysterious,
sudden, irrevocable destruction, and wreckage ;
and some thirty or forty victims, dead and
wounded, to show how miraculous had been
the escape of that family group, assembled in
the neighbouring room.

Thanks to the massive masonry of Peter's
Palace the outer walls had defied the worst
effects of the explosion, and to all semblance
remained intact. The invalid, sleeping softly
in a distant chamber, had not so much as been
roused from her slumbers ; and although the
city was in a state of alarm and excitement,
yet the prevailing sentiment was one of
universal thankfulness, and the predominant
impression one of wonder that so many marked
lives should have been spared.

AFTER MANY DA YS? 177

Investigation as to the cause of the explosion,
which had, in the first instance, been declared
accidental, proved that it was the result
of a carefully-laid plot. Workpeople were
suspected and interrogated ; the presence of a
whole army of hangers-on, dwellers amongst
the rafters, inhabitants of the cellars of this
vast Palace, only proved the facilities afforded
to the enemies of order, and the lax economy
of a household where the location of several
hundred individuals was either unsuspected
or disregarded, was matter for severe comment.

Details were hushed up as much as possible,
and Te Deems were chanted in all the churches ;
and before the Public had ceased to speculate
upon the dynamite mystery, the bells of the
city were tolling the knell of Her for whom
they had once pealed a merry bridal welcome.

At last, at last, that long agony was ended
and that suffering soul at peace !

Not one of the thousands of poor, who
blessed Her name for bounties retrieved
from the lavish expenditure of idleness and
folly ; not one of the many sick, who, in
Hospitals founded and endowed by her, had
learned to pray for their Patroness ; none of
the ignorant rescued from the orphanage of the

VOL. HI. N

178 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

streets, and taught to revere the name of their
Empress ; and youths clothed and fed and
fostered in Homes of her institution, but availed
themselves of the privilege accorded by
immemorial custom to the humblest fellow-citizen,
of gazing for the last time upon the
face of the Empress Saint.

In the vast church, which was guarded by
those who during her life had formed her bodyguard,
in front of the Ikonostasis or gilt
screen, through the middle or ' Eoyal Door '
of which the Emperor and the Archimandrite
only are allowed to enter, day and night the
priests and nuns kept ward and watch over
the Imperial coffin. And every day, as the
same hour came round. He who had been her
husband, her sons, her daughter, and her personal
attendants, heard masses for the repose
of that soul which, here on earth, they had
done so much to disquiet, so little to soothe.

Then, from six till seven, the doors were
closed, and the nuns and the physicians went
through the ghastly ceremony which, by a
horrible paradox, is called (in other countries)
'making the toilette of the dead.' The faded
flowers were replaced by fresh ones ; cosmetics
repaired the inroads which the day had made

AFTER MANY DA YS.



on frail mortality ; the veil was disposed more
becomingly ; the hand, which each humblest
dweller in the city was suffered to kiss,
replaced on the embroidered cushion.

Attended by Bianca, the Countess Helena
Perowska had come, for the last time, to stand
once more beside that lifeless form ; to renew
once more those solemn vows that bound herby
strange oaths, to the dead ; to kneel once
more at the feet of her Sovereign Mistress and
quondam rival ; of Her whom the world might
have pronounced her the enemy, but between
whom and herself a mysterious secret bond
existed, which nothing earthly could now unloose.


To-night the coffin would be finally closed.
Even yesterday the surgeons in attendance
would fain, had they dared to urge their views,
have permitted the populace only to see the
velvet sarcophagus in which the Empress lay.

In the dark church the monotonous murmur
of the priests, Gosport Pomilui ! (Lord, have
mercy upon us), and the ever-recurring Amens !
of the nuns, the myriad of burning tapers,
that touching emblem of the soul so striking a
feature of the Greek ritu.% the absence of all
instrumental music, and the weird and ancient

N 2

iso AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

melodies chanted in a minor key at distant
intervals, afforded impressive evidence of the
presence of Death. In an hour or two the
populace would be admitted, and the vast
human stream would continue to flow through
the church until seven o'clock the next
morning.

Kneeling on the stone pavement, close to
one of the nuns who guarded the four corners
of the coffin, Helena Perowska wept bitterly.
The gentle Sister, who knew her well  indeed,
was one of her almoners in many secret works
of charity, and whose pure, secluded life permitted
her to know nothing of Helena's sinful
one  pushed a cushion towards the weeping
lady. But she took no notice.

Sire,' said an official, respectfully bending
down to the Emperor's ear, ' if your Imperial
Majesty pleases, it is the last moment.'

Instantly, with military obedience, bearing
himself proudly aloft, the Emperor arose, and,
with a sign to his children to follow him, came
with measured step down the aisle to where,
before the great altar, his silent Consort
lay.

The last moment ! '

He had understood the meaning of those

'AFTER MANY DAYS.' i8i

words, and he was ready to fulfil the duty they
implied.

The last moment ! '

As he stood looking down into the coffin, a
thousand recollections peopled his mind. His
first meeting with his wife, in her innocent,
unformed girlhood. His visit to the queer,
out-at-elbows old Schloss, where her father, a
mediatised ' Prince, writing Eoyal Highness
before his name, kept up a faded state, with
shabby retainers and old-world courtesies,
chamberlains whose keys were silver gilt, and
a mistress of the robes whose elaborate struggles
with the poverty of the Princess's and her won
toilettes were only equalled by the rigidity of
her morals and the exactions of her code of
etiquette. The betrothal ; the gay and innocent
surprise of his young bride at suddenly finding
herself a person of vast importance, the centre
of an obsequious circle. The pomp and glitter
of their marriage, their slow but sure disillusionment,
the birth of an heir, the renewal of
kindlier sentiments, and the long, step by step,
estrangement resulting in This !

As he stood and gazed upon that gentle
countenance, now glorified by Death, the truth
came home to his stricken soul. He made no

i82 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

plausible excuses to his conscience. In that
supreme hour Self stood naked before him, and
was ashamed ; condemned without appeal. The
servile flattery of courtiers, the paltering of
a weak nature with conscience, the comfortable,
convenient self-delusion, the mental indolence,
irritability, and indifference of years, all fell
away from him.

He stood there, looking on all that was mortal
of the wife of his youth and the mother of his
children, and told himself that it was all over 
a miserable, self accused, self-condemned man !

The Time which had seemed so long had
vanished, and he stood face to face with
Eternity. In life he had not cared for her ;
but now a horrible sense of loneliness fell upon
him. She had been his guardian angel. For
her sake his murmuring people had held their
peace ; to spare her last moments, retribution
had been stayed. He had not meant to be
wicked, he had only been weak ; but now,
in his remorse and anguish, he declared to
himself that even to have been wicked were
less fatal than the disastrous weakness which
had betrayed him. He did not shuffle with the
truth. To deceive himself could have brought
him no comfort now. Even quite lately he had

AFTER MANY DA K5.' 183

flattered himself that, since no reproaches had
ever reached him, his wife had been ignorant
of, or at least indifferent to, her injuries. But
plausible pretexts withered like a parchment in
the fire at this supreme test, and as he stood by
the bier gazing into his dead wife's face, he
knew himself to be a miserable man. At the
head of the coffin, where the priests continued
to mumble passages from Holy Writ, stood the
husband, and at the foot the son, pale with
grief and weeping, with sleepless nights and unspeakable
anxieties, with streaming eyes,  the
outward visible sign and link of that life-union
now cancelled by death. Behind the heir to
the throne, and close to him on the left, were
the other children of the marriage. The son
banished by his father's wrath, but now recalled ;
the blue-eyed, tawny-bearded Benjamin, the last-born
and most dearly loved ; the young daughter
whose untiring care, unflinching courage, and
devoted silence, had kept her mother's moments
peaceful to the last : all were assembled together
at this supreme juncture to meet both parents.

In an instant, before she knew it, before
possibility of escape, Helena Perowska found
herself surrounded by the Imperial family.

Bianca, out of respect, or, it may be, feeling

i84 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

herself out of place, had at once retired into a
distant shadowy background of stone columns,
where she awaited the Countess, near the door.

Helena, her face buried in her hands,
utterly unconscious of, and indifferent to, the
personality of those surrounding the coffin, was
bathed in tears. They might be the members
of her late Majesty's household  the physicians,
nurses, and underlings  or even the relays of
priests and nuns, who were about to relieve
the guard of those Who kept vigil. In any
case it behoved her to leave, for she had
already lingered too long.

She rose to her feet, threw back her crape
veil, and was about to advance, and for the
last time kiss her gentle mistress's hand, when
her eyes fell full upon a group that startled
her beyond expression. Instinctively she
looked round for some possible means of
escape. But it was too late.

Emerging from the darkness of the shadowy
background, a face, pale, furrowed, tear-stained,
and inexpressibly mournful looked upon her
with accusatory distinctness ; and eyes made
wild by grief and remorse mutely met hers,
like a having reproach. To the awakened conscience
of the superstitious penitent, the cor-after

MANY DA YS.' 185

pirate presentment of his sins of unfaithfulness
and selfishness at such a moment, seem nothing
less than a divinely-appointed apparition. And
registering a mental vow that the warnings of
this silent monitress should not be disregarded,
the Sovereign braced himself to his immediate
task. With eyes which (as a looker-on told
the writer of these lines) literally poured forth
floods of tears, coursing each other rapidly
through the furrows and channels of his caroline
countenance, dropping in showers on the
face of his dead wife, he advanced yet a step
nearer to the coffin, stooped, and kissed for the
last time on earth the clay-cold forehead of his
Consort. Then, weeping still, but mastering
the excess of emotion, he withdrew, signing to
his heir to take his last leave also of the mother
he had loved.

And so, one by one, the weeping family
advanced and retired, until, the last kiss given,
the still weeping husband motioned to the
workmen to proceed with their grim task.

As the strokes fell in dismal cadence, reverberating
through the vaulted gloom, each
blow sent a fresh pang of desolation and remorse
through the heart of the chief mourner.
Erect, disdaining to conceal his tears or hide

i86 AUT CMSAR AUT NIHIL.

his weakness in the cowering attitude of
despair, no soldier could have guarded his
post more unflinchingly than the Imperial
sentinel. The last stroke of the hammer, at
length, told that the worst was over ; and,
crossing himself, he withdrew.

His good angel had departed !

Helena Perowska drew her veil hastily over
her face, and, shrinking into the corner of the
carriage which she had gained on leaving the
church, unobserved of Bianca, gave herself upto
an agony of thought.

Thus she, and the Lover of her youth, had
been destined to meet again !

Between the two women, between the dead
and the living, between the disregarded \vife
and the discarded mistress, doubly disloyal
and trebly faithless, self-condemned and self-denounced,
the unhappy man to whom Helena
had vowed all the gifts and glory of her youth,
the devotion and loyalty of her womanhood,
for one brief moment had stood. She, whose
hand might have cast the die of destruction ;
she, whose weak arm might have avenged the
wrongs which had burned and eaten into her
soul ; she, who, disgusted by the weakness, the
pusillanimity, the delays of an irresolute and

'AFTER MANY days: 187

feeble soul, had joined in the impatient cry of
a patient people, ' How long, Lord, how
long ? ' whose soft and generous nature had
been turned to gall and bitterness, whose
character had received a warp which it might
never wholly recover, and whose past love
seemed, in the disaster of the issue, less a sin
than a crime, less a blinder than a degradation
 she, by some irony of Fate, was the
elected shield, as hers was the protecting hand
and hers the vigilant eye, appointed to warn
and watch over the man whom thousands had
sworn should cease to betray, and should at
last learn, in his own person, the bitterness of
betrayal.

But an oath to the individual could not
cancel vows to ' the Cause,' to break which
meant, inevitably, death to the disloyal.

i88 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Chapter XLIII.

A DOUBTING HEART.

We have wandered far from that peaceful scene
when the golden glory of a July evening, fell
soft and warm on the lawns of Sprudelheim ;
and youth, and hope, and careless security
seemed the enviable portion of the commonplace
group of middle-class persons, with whom
our story commenced.

As month after month passed by, and Hero
found new duties interwoven in her daily life,
she wondered at the impatience of despair with
which she had declared to herself, in her first
rapture of loneliness, that life must henceforth be
intolerable to her.

The loss of her mother, followed by the loss
of her child, the misunderstanding and estrangement
that had grown out of Bianca's wilfulness
and rebellion, had left her indeed a solitary
and deeply unhappy woman. Her more timid

A DOUBTING HEART. i89>

nature could not understand the rebellions of
untamed youth, and to her it seemed little short
of sacrilege, that Bianca should shake off the
sheltering restraints of home, the safety and
protection afforded by the blessed shield of
an encompassing family love, for a voluntary
life amongst strangers, in a strange land. Notwithstanding
the natural softness and generosity
of the woman, indignation was strong within
her, as she considered her child's faithlessness
and duplicity. To her it seemed unpardonable,
unholy, unrighteous, that a child, and that
child a girl, should revolt against her elders,
follow her own will, and, despising all traditions
of feminine duty, establish for herself independent
relations with the outside world, of
which, in her inexperience and precipitation,
she could know nothing.

Hero herself was still too young to have
done with life and its interests, prejudices, and
passions ; but she had ever felt  indeed, had
then felt it most acutely when least able to
realise privacy in her own person  that a
woman's existence should be sheltered, modest,
sacred to home and all its refining and dutiful
precepts ; and she could neither understand nor
excuse the child's sudden and entire rejection

Iso AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

of these privileges, which in the mother's judgment
were inestimable.

It was Fitz who by degrees brought Hero to
see and allow for the force of inherited tendencies,
the power for good or evil, of hereditary
qualities and defects. ' Bianca is not, as you
flattered yourself, " the child of her mother
only," ' Fitz said, smiling not without significance
as he wound up his apology.

I was never so conceited or so silly as to
wish that,' replied Hero ; and might have added,
but that tenderness and reverence kept her
silent, ' how could I desire for her, any better
ensample, or the reflex of a character more
sweet and endearing than that, in whose immediate
contact she lived, and moved, and had her
being ? ' But reflection told her that Fitz was
right  that she had made too little allowance
for that warm Italian blood ; had ignored too
persistently, in her scheme of education, Bianca's
southern temperament ; and had taken it too
much for granted that the girl's ardent nature
would accommodate itself to the grooves into
which Fate had cast it, whilst she confessed
the power of circumstance, and the defect of
Bianca's immediate surroundings. In a large
family of boys and girls, or even in a narrower

A DOUBTING HEART. 191

circle, where men of the world, wholesome-minded
and possessed of common sense, guide
the domestic helm, Bianca's escapade would
have been impossible. But in a household of
women, outsiders discover an easy, if not a
happy,' hunting-ground, and carry out their
operations with a sense of facility and security,
not possible where a strong masculine element
prevails.

One horrible suspicion had, all along,
haunted Hero's mind. She doubted if any
impersonal, abstract motive would have been
strong enough to overmaster all Bianca's scruples
and affections, or could have dram her,
without appeal, from that filial allegiance which
she had given no previous intimation of
foreseeing. Whilst the Mother, in Hero,
shrank from ascribing motives other than those
alleged, to her child, the Woman, with keener
insight and quicker instinct, divined a danger
which, even to herself, she blushed to confess
and refused to recognise.

Of young love. Hero, by experience, and in
her own person, knew nothing. She had been
married, when little more than a child, to a
man who quickly made it clear that love was
the last thing which entered into his conjugal

192 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

calculations. In a certain sense, Hero was
still virginal of soul ; of an extreme and excessive
sensitiveness on all matters relating to the
subject of love and marriage ; and she felt a
positive shyness and hesitation at entering upon
such a subject with a maiden of tender age,
lest she should unwittingly brush the bloom off
those feelings which, unless delicately handled,
lose all their grace and half their beauty.
With what front, with what face could she
suggest the topic of love and lovers to this
slender, nymph-like young creature, of whom it
pleased her fancy and flattered her imagination
to think as a young roe upon the mountains, an
antelope, gracefully bounding from rock to rock,
a dainty swan, proudly arching its white and
delicate neck as it circles solitarily upon the
mirrored surface which reflects its magical
beauty; a folded flower; the bud whose full
blossom seems yet far distant.

The outbursts of Bianca's gay young voice,
as it went thrilling upwards, seemed to Hero like
the notes of the lark, carolling its orisons at
Heaven's gate, gaily and gladly, fearlessly and
free. To her, when by chance she heard the
topics of love and marriage discussed amongst
young people, the modern tone seemed coarse

A DOUBTING HEART. 193

and callous, its outspokenness profoundly shocking.
Its calm cynicism, the cool assumption
that an advantageous arrangement must necessarily
be the basis of all mutual understanding,
the not always altogether feminine advances
of the young ladies, the rude repartee and
rattling reply, the snappish rejoinder and the
short rebuff, the retort uncourteous and the
unvarnished personalities, so often as she heard
them, reminded her rather of Touchstone's recipes
for the avoidance of blows, than of the
intercourse of gently-bred youths with 
maidens.

Hero was frankly ashamed to suggest to
her child that some foolish, girlish infatuation
was misleading her. How attribute to her
the maidenly attitude of seeking, where she
was not sought ? of offering love, where none
was proffered ? of creating opportunities, where
none were desired ? She could not do it.
Neither, fortunately for both of them, could
she have understood or excused that pledge
whereby Bianca, in her misguided enthusiasm,
had bound herself to a desperate Cause, willing
to obey the stern behests and accept the awful
responsibilities of a society of fanatical reformers,
whilst the tender restrictions of home,
VOL. III.

194 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

the prohibitions of a law of love, were beyond
her endurance.

Take any ordinary, educated woman of the
middle classes, and explain to her the tenets,
the beliefs and aspirations, the codex of any
group of ardent political reformers, and await
the result of your best efforts at explanation.
If you expect justice of her, you will be
grievously disappointed. ' Murder and Regicide
' will seem to her terms too soft for the
crimes with which she credits your system, for
the outrages she attributes to your scheme.
Argument will not produce (when did argument
ever produce ?) conviction ; and you will
go out of her presence knowing that she thinks
you a brute, a ruffian, and a monster, and feeling
that you have wounded a gentle soul, and
estranged a kindly heart to no purpose.

She is comfortable in her Conservatism, and
she assumes that her neighbours are, or ought
to be, comfortable in theirs (if they are not,
they must accept the inevitable exception which
proves the complacent rule). Why should
visionary reformers and fanatical propagandists
disturb the comfortable old world, with
their new-fangled theorems? From the lofty
heights of her conscious virtue she looks down

A DOUBTING HEART. 195

in pitying condemnation (but still in condemnation)
on your sins, and will mentally brand
you as ' dangerous ' ; a disputer of precedent,
a disturber of custom, a pestilent fellow.

To Hero, the aspirations and sympathies of
an Esther Eodostamos, the bigotry and retribution
of an Helena Perowska, the terrier-like
tenacity of a Julie de Kerezoff, the visionary
Utopia of a Mellin, the fierce fanaticism of a
Bakounine, the insidious courtiers of a Parish
all would have come under one category of
peace-disturbers, republicans, and revolutionists.

Luckily for. her, she had no conception of
the ends and aims of Bianca's existence, and
Fitz, who, enlightened by his conversations
with Hudson, suspected something very like
the truth, both as to the girl's romantic hero-worship,
and her participation in those political
doctrines which were to reform the World,
wisely and kindly kept his peace. Bianca
gone, with no one to excuse her rebellions, no
one to mention her, the young man's heart
relented towards his girl-love ; and in his hunger
to hear some voice soften over the syllables of
her name, he fell into a form of special pleading
that became the accepted tone where Bianca
was concerned.



196 AUT CMSAR AUT NIHIL.

In one matter Hero's fortunes had been less
evil than they had seemed.

A clerical error in a report, a too prompt
adoption of the mistake, had spoken her father's
fiat before the time. A certain Gabriel Ovens
had died on the mines where Mr. Owen was
inspecting the works, and the initial G. had
grown into Garry, and Ovens followed suit as
Owen.

But for that capital letter, Bianca would
probably have perished in the Palace explosion.
She owed her life, indirectly, to the haste of a
telegraph clerk, and Mellin's rare mood of relenting
tenderness to an initial error.

Fortunately, young Hudson, who had in the
course of this travels come upon Mr. Owen, and
agreed to travel with him to England, telegraphed
to his mother to that effect ; and the
kind old lady lost no moment in communicating
with Hero, whose mourning was thus turned
into unexpected joy.

Mr. Owen's fine, buoyant Irish nature sent
him home in no wise impressed with a sense of
failure because he had discovered that his
much-advertised, much-vaunted mine was a
huge American swindle, palmed off upon a too-confiding
British public, solely because the

A DOUBTING HEART. 197

cuteness ' of the Transatlantic character, makes
it both difficult and risky to attempt such vast
fraud on the wide-awake native. He consoled
himself by the reflection that he had seen something
of the world in his travels, and by asserting
that the generous and confiding simplicity
of his own nature, made it impossible he should
suspect others of less integrity than he himself
possessed.

Mrs. Fitzgerald lived to see the first flush
of June, and when she died it was found that
the sum of money she had originally left to
Hero, ' in recognition of her untiring and affectionate
care,' had, by his daughter's request,
been transferred to the testator's ' dear and only
brother, Garry Owen, for his lifetime, to revert
at his death to the said Hero Martello.'

Drawn still closer to Hero by the loss of his
mother, Fitz, when not at Oxford, spent most
of his time with father and daughter, not only
a welcome inmate, but almost indispensable to
both, as sympathiser, adviser, and friend. Mr.
Owen's really generous nature caused him to
remember many an act of what he called ' munificence
' on the young man's part. His mother's
death had made a rich man of Fitz, and more
than once his uncle proposed that they should

198 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

all live together. But Fitz could not tear himself
away from Oxford, and Hero would not
give up her independence. There was no
necessity for her to work, but she determined
to use her great gift for charitable purposes.
This would give her an object in life, and save
her from brooding over the unalterable, in idle
regret. For, in the hidden depths of her nature,
Hero was profoundly miserable.

Graham, whose notes to her had, to outward
seeming, been purely conventional  a few
words about his work, a sentence or two about
Bianca  had gradually allowed longer and longer
intervals to elapse between his communications.
Then he wrote to say that he was going to
Moscow, where he should be busy for several
months, but would write again on his return to
St. Petersburg, after which he would probably
leave almost immediately for England, when he
should hope to find them all well. This,
supplemented by such gossip as Bianca sent,
in which casual mention was made of the beautiful
Greek, the mysterious portrait, the lady's
friendship for the artist, and so on, was not
calculated to reassure Hero.

She told herself that she expected nothing
and deserved nothing ; that Graham's happier

DOUBTING HEART. 199

ness was all she desired, and that, if he were
content, why, so was she. Personal happiness,
such as some women command, had never
been her portion ; and at this period of her
existence she often recalled, with a smile, the
reply of a lady who, a tremendous flirt in her
maidenhood, had absorbed all the devotional
faculties and the undivided fortunes of three
husbands, and was about, so Eumour said, to
take a fourth spouse. Intruding her unasked -
for, and perhaps not very delicate sympathy
on the shrinking Hero, notoriously the victim
of conjugal cruelty, she remarked complacently :
Well, my dear, of course it's very hard ; but
you've got to bear it, you know, and there are
lots of old maids worse off than you are. I'm
not so sure, after all, but that it's better for
you, especially as you have your delightful
little girl. A husband isn't everything. As
you've got to get along alone, the sooner you
bring your mind to it the better it will be ! '

The advice Hero had always acknowledged
to be sound, as far as it went ; but she would
have found her task easier had she known the
true story of Graham's silence, and her mind
been soothed by the undoubted assurance of
his content.

200 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Chapter XLIV.

DISCOMFITURE AND TRIUMPH.

The Countess Helena Perowska was too influential
and too popular a person to be easily-spared
fifom the circle of which lie was the
centre ; nor was it likely that Mellin, and those
with whom he acted, would willingly have
risked one of their finest, brightest, and most
indispensable instruments, where a coarser and
commoner tool, would equally well answer the
purpose.

The faculty of choosing the best agents for
the work in hand, postulates the eye and the
judgment of a Master ; and the governing spirits
who ruled that special section of the ' Cause '
(for which the humblest of its adherents, as
the highest, must hold himself ready, at any
moment, to lay down his life), were wise enough
to disdain none, however insignificant the apparent
dictionary of vengeance might be.

DISCOMFITURE AND TRIUMPH. 20i

Helena might assert her claim, and reassert it ;
the right of executive judgment, urged by the
impassioned representations of a beautiful, influential,
and deeply-injured woman, would meet
with some sympathy and consideration, but it
was with positive relief that Mellin found himself
in the street, after his interview with heron
the day following the explosion at the
Winter Palace.

On the previous evening, after leaving
Bianca, he had, in passing the Perowsky Palace,
desired that a carriage might be sent for the
Signorina Martello, and had then sped upon his
mysterious way.

The change that had come over Helena
Perowska during the last few weeks was no
secret to the Triumvirate, to whom all her movements
were known. If ' walls have ears,' so too
have hangings, picture frames, screens, lounges,
fauteuils, cabinets, and curtains.

The Empress's almoner was vowed to ' the
Cause ' ; one of her physicians had already
been replaced on suspicion ; the nurses were
continually changed. Police surveillance did
not pause on the threshold of the sick-room,
and if the  Ispravnik' (or detective police), and
even the ' Stanovie ' (town ditto), flattered

202 A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

themselves that nothing took place between the
Countess Perowska and her dying mistress
without their being informed of it, the Executive
were also instructed (and that not by the
Countess) of the august Lady's most secret
prayers, commands, and wishes.

A month since, Mellin had been moved to
say a word to their Head, known as ' Primus
It was simply to the effect that, in the approaching
conjunction of affairs, Helena Perowska
must no longer be counted upon.

Ior do we dream of employing her,' was
the answer. ' Something had to be allowed in
view of a justifiable exasperation, but common
tools are good enough for rough work of that
kind;

'But if she should claim the fulfilment of
the promise which she invariably assumes we
made ? '

She will do nothing of the sort. The prejudices
and principles of earlier years are apt to
play us false with emotional women of her kind.
That is the position at the present moment.'

Do you mean that she will play us false ? '
asked Mellin in so strange a tone of voice that
both his companions looked up at him in sudden
surprise.

DISCOMFITURE AND TRIUMPH. 203

She dare not,' replied Secundus, grimly brief.

Is anyone ever false to the Cause ? ' asked
Primus in a lighter tone. 'Who breaks pays.
A woman's word is lightly broken, but not so
lightly when she pays for the breakage with
her pretty little head.'

However that may be,' replied Secundus,
we have nothing to fear. Helena Perowska
will not be false to us, because, in the first instance,
we shall not ask her to be true. We
agreed to let her play a leading part. If, for
reasons which we need not enlarge upon, but
which are equally well known to us all, she nov
prefers a subordinate role, that is no crime. Her
daily visits to the Winter Palace may be usefully
cited as an opportune proof of her devoted
loyalty. Her people, her servants, her demoiselle
de compagnie are thus afforded opportunities
which no mere "outsider" could enjoy, without
Suspicion dogging his steps. You say the girl is
clever. She seems to be of no particular nationality.
If she disappears, there will be no importunate
Government worrying the Foreign Office
with despatches about a person whose existence
cannot signify to any created being. These are
the people who are really useful to us. Your
distinguished personages," like brilliant 

AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

niuses, are disturbing elements. The difficulty of
finding employment for their energies, of gratifying
their restless vanity, of keeping them out of
mischief, and binding them down to discretion,
makes the acquisition of so-called " influential "
members a very doubtful advantage from my
point of view, though I know Tertius does not
agree with me. For the rest, it is as well
that you remembered to warn us of Helena
Perowska's temporary indisposition,' he added,
for although we knew it already, it is better
such matters should be fairly discussed and
finally disposed of when favourable chance finds
us in conclave assembled.'

It was a delicate method of letting Mellin
know that he, too, was watched.

Primus, whose farewell words were spoken
as he was about to mount his telega wore his
blue toulouse, sheepskin cap, huge leather boots
and false flaxen beard as to the manner born ;
but he betrayed nothing of this calm, characteristic,
and impartial mind when, three hours
later, in the dazzling uniform of the most
brilliant of light cavalry regiments, he bent over
the Countess Perowska's hand, murmuring in
his softest tones the most ingenious flatteries
that carping vanity could crave.

DISCOMFITURE AND TRIUMPH. 205

He professed himself a Slav of Slavs, and
was understood to make his court rather to the
coming, than to the reigning Csar. A long
pedigree, enormous wealth, European travel,
princely alliances, immense landed possessions,
and a vast palace, constituted him a ' personage '
in St. Petersburg Society. Tall, pale and dark,
with a smooth face, large brown moustache,
blue eyes, and all the characteristic Ijenj of
Slavonic races. Colonel Count Chamoffsky was
looked upon as a dandy, an exquisite, a lady-killer,
an aristocrat, and an idler. JSTot one of
the hundreds affiliated to his section of the
Cause ' recognised in him, the masked Primus
of debate.

Secundus, whose name was known all over
the educated world, had graduated at three
European universities, was a linguist of the
first rank, a brilliant journalist and an accomplished
politician, but even by those who knew
him best in secret council, was not identified
with the popular editor of the most widely-read
Eussian journal of the day. Dressed in
the ordinary garb of a moujik., his fair hair
disguised by a long black wig, and his smooth
cheeks hidden by a full beard, he drank his
glass of kvass with unflinching gusto, and

2o6 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

smoked his pipe, amicably hobnobbing with
the drovers and peasants who stopped on their
way home from the cattle market to give
their beasts a drink, and to refresh their inner
men at the different Kabaki, or road-side inns.
Mellin, ' Tertius,' in the garb of a pedlar, had
laid aside his pack, whilst he chatted in a low
tone with his ostensibly ' chance acquaintances '
behind the stove ; and when the time came for
him to shoulder his wares, and he bade the host
and the wayfarers, still drinking tea and vodki, a
pleasant good-night, he announced that he had
many a mile to trudge, ere he should reach his
night's shelter.

The very same evening Helena Perowska
had somewhat startled her friends.

Esther Kodostamos, followed quickly by Julie
Kerezoff, had asked in her gayest tones if she
might send her servants home, and spend a
couple of hours with Helena and her friends.

By all means. Ivan will take care of
Chelanska, who will certainly prefer waiting for
you,' Helena had replied ; adding, ' Keep guard
yourself, my good Ivan ; I am not at home to
anyone besides these ladies, my friends.'

If she had been a little estranged from
them of late ; if the one or the other felt any

DISCOMFITURE AND TRIUMPH. 207

soreness, any consciousness of neglect, any-rankling
sense of other, and stronger, interests
having diverted Helena Perowska's mind from
its usual channels, her sweet, cordial tone was
in itself enough to win her pardon from any
but the most obdurate.

Bianca, who had viewed the Countess's
frequent visits to the Recluse of the Winter
Palace with more than suspicion, glanced
shrewdly for a moment at the speaker.

Julie de Kerezoff slightly knit her thin
brows ; Esther Eodostamos looked openly into
her hostess's fair face, and, drawing nearer to
her by the hand she held, kissed Helena lightly
yet tenderly on her beautiful pale cheek.

For a short time the conversation seemed as
though it refused to run in pleasant grooves.
There was an unmistakable air of constraint, an
artificiality of tone, an effort and a stiffness, as
though each one present had her own private
thoughts and pre-occupations, and did not care
to be the first to break down the barriers of
reserve.

A chance remark presently gave the opportunity,
and Helena Perowska was not slow to
avail herself of it.

Ah ! it is not others, it is ourselves we

2o8 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

should mistrust,' she cried. ' Who can be 
his motives ? Who can swear that, as he
thinks and feels to day, so he will think and
feel for ever? Is it not this sentiment that
oppresses us, when we see fair young lives,,
in the first anguish of deception and disillusionment,
vowing themselves to eternal solitude 
to ife-long despair ? It is not the gloom, or
the monotony of the cloister ; it is its irrevocably
that makes it seem to the looker-on so
awful a sacrifice  so utter a death in life.'

Do you mean, Helena Paulovna,' asked
Julie Kerezoff in her thin, high tones, that
seemed to slice the words like steel, 'that
grown women should not know their own
minds, and be able to answer for them as well
as men? That is an old-world doctrine indeed,
worthy of the most rabid retrograde.'

Ah ! but what woman knows where her
heart begins and where her mind leaves off,
Julie Petrovna ? There is the difficulty.
What we feel, and what we think, is so inextricably
mixed up that who shall answer for
herself, when a sudden revelation shows her
that her heart is in opposition to her mind ? '

'Who shall answer for herself? That is
precisely, Helena Paulovna, what each one of

DISCOMFITURE AND TRIUMPH. 209

US has to do ; to herself, and to the " Cause."
I served my apprenticeship in the Circle of the
Ciaikovsi, so-called, as you know, after a young
student, Nicholas Ciaikovsky, who preached the
propaganda to what seemed a family party
rather than a political club. Yet I can assure
you we had to answer, not only to our own
consciences, but to one another, for moral
perfection, self-devotion, liberty, fraternity, and
equality. The frankness and feeling of profound
friendship which existed amongst us,
enabled the members to point out, one to
another, every little weakness, indiscretion, or
want of devotion or endurance, to the " Cause."
The rules were rigorous and austere, I might
almost say " monastic," whilst they were productive
of a most affectionate, devoted, and
enthusiastic feeling amongst us. Many strong
personal friendships, of an ideal character, were
founded by these means. Here I first learned
to know Mellin  and others who are expiating
their generous aspirations afar ! But, I assure
you, it would never have occurred to any one
of us to say that we did not know our own individual
mind ! ' And there was something of
warning, almost of threatening, in Julie's tone.

'Ah, you speak truly; you do well to

VOL. III. p

210 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

remind me of that twofold responsibility, Julie
Petrovna,' Helena replied ; ' but an oath even
to the " Cause " might be remitted, I believe,
if one went honourably to the Head and revealed
one's scruples and unworthiness.'

God forbid ! ' interrupted Julie de Kerezoff.
You forget, Helena Paulovna, you have not
here to deal with mumbling, shuffling, half-imbecile
" popes," hypocrites who flatter themselves
and their victims that they can bind and
loose, and pull the strings that make their
puppets dance to suit their own interests. " Unworthiness
" means death with us. The Cause
admits no power of withdrawal. Once a freemason,
always a freemason. You must live
and die bound by the oaths you have taken.
You took them of your own free-will ; you
cannot be allowed to go out into the World and
babble away the lives of honourable men, of
patriots, of heroes '

'Is it to me that you speak, Julie Pes
? '

To you, to all ; I should have said " we,"
for what applies to one applies to all. I mean
no oJBTence ; but I recognise only one law and
one duty

Happy You ! that can say so,' Helena

DISCOMFITURE AND TRIUMPH. i\i

replied with a sad and gentle dignity ; ' but you
are right, Julie Petrovna, and it is I who am to
blame for explaining myself so ill. But

that ' and she looked round sadly and

appealingly at the others, until, her ejes meeting
Esther's, a soft, full smile rose out of the
depths of her own, as finding and reposing on
the restfulness of love. ' I have been ill and
sore perplexed,' she went on more rapidly, ' but
I owe it to myself, and to you, all of you,
by chance here assembled, to say that, whatever
you may hear, or think, to the contrary, I
am true to the " Cause." '

No one was ever false to it  and lived ! '
muttered Julie de Kerezoff below her breath.

I am true to the " Cause," ' Helena
repeated, looking at Julie but not otherwise
noticing the interruption ; ' it is a true and just
Cause, and its grievances and its aims, in so far
as they are the grievances and aims of thousands,
are true and just ; but I am no longer
true to myself I am not in unison with myself.
Where I had thought myself strongest,
there I find that I am weakest ; where I
believed that I stood, I have to take heed lest
I fall. I have asked, and shall obtain, leave to
retire for a time into the country, there in

r 2

212 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

solitude to strengthen and refresh myself ; to
grow again clear and calm in my conviction
that there is, and can be only, and eternally,
but one Eight and one Wrong ! ' She paused
for a moment, and seemed as if considering her
words.

Julie de Kerezoff's gimlet gaze, if it could
have drilled holes into that brain (which, she
reflected, might even now be seeking the words
that should most skilfully conceal thought),
could scarcely have been more persistently penetrating.
Esther's large glance was full of liberal
love and warm pity, not unmixed with surprise.

Bianca, both excited and anxious, like the
young war-horse snuffing the battle from afar,
enjoying the dust and the din in eager anticipation
of the fray, lifted her head and listened.

I am true to the Cause,' Helena went on
after a few minutes' silence, ' but I am not true
to myself; and if you judge me twice as
severely as I judge myself, you will be yet too
lenient. It is not to bespeak your indulgence
that I say what 1 do, but  oh ! ' and leaving
her measured sentences far behind, she suddenly
rose and stood up amongst them. ' By
all I suffer now, I would ask you, all of you, to
think, to consider, to weigh well, before it is

DISCOMFITURE AND TRIUMPH. 213

too late, the awful oaths, the tremendous
obligations you lay upon your souls. Look !
for I must be truthful, even at the risk of
offending you. Which amongst us is disinterested
? Which acts from purely impersonal
motives, free from all taint of passion or
revenge ? You, Julie, who laugh at the vows
of religion, do you not give a more implicit
obedience, a blinder faith to your leaders than
any priest exacts? And do not these bind
awful promises upon your soul, so grievous to
the weaker part of our humanity, that their
haunting presence scarcely can be borne ? Is
your end and aim only, and solely, the good of
your country, done for love of your fellow-countrymen?
Or is it not rather a spirit of
personal revenge that you have suffered to lie
rankling within, until it has eaten into your
being, until the very kisses of your children
have lost their sweetness for you, and your husband's
caresses have grown irksome ? Who am
I that I should reproach you ? you will ask. It
is because I am what I am, that I ask you to
search out your own heart before it is too late !
And still more  what am I, who am I, that I
should set up a standard of right and wrong, and
expect impossibilities of One human creatures

214 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

whose position; education, antecedents, surroundings,
make the Ideal we place upon
a pedestal and worship, as impossible of
realisation as though we put a chisel in the
hand of a peasant, and exacted of him the
work of a Praxiteles ? Can we blow the
breath of life into the clay nostrils and
create, at our will, demigods that shall be our
rulers ? Is it for us, poor, miserable, futile
shortcomings that we are, to insist that this One
Man, this victim of Fate, shall fulfil all our impossible
fancies,  or die ? And if, in our own
limited circle, this picture of monstrous exaction
and personal motive be true, how much more
true is it of the World outside ? What vanities
and spites, what pettiness and vengeance, what
idleness and rebellion, what follies of the brain
and exaggerations of the fancy, delude men
along the thorny way which they flatter themselves
leads to glory I What one man, what
single hero of antiquity, what leader of
legislative assemblies in the palmiest days of
Eome or Greece, could do what you expect
this One Man to do  this pigmy (as you
are wont to declare) of the Present ? In all
history, ancient or modern, so far as you know
it, what Atlas could bear on his shoulders the

DISCOMFITURE AND TRIUMPH. 215

burthen of the inherited abuses of such a
world as you would superimposed on His ? Is it
just, is it fair, is it reasonable, is it humane, or
even human, to expect that the long inheritance
of misdoing, of misapprehension, of misgovernment,
heaped in one undying legacy upon one
sole, irresponsible, individual Man, should be
flung in his face like the voluntary crime of a
persistent malefactor ? And is it not we rather
who are mad, expecting He shall do miracles,
or, like the gods, work wonders, which, in the old
world, only the accumulated centuries accomplished
? ' She paused, but no one spoke.

Let me say this. Our " Cause " is just and
true. But if we would be true, if we would be
as true, and as just, as our " Cause," we must be
worthy of it; and we must search our very
heart of hearts to see how much is petty and
personal in our devotion to it. New times have
produced new men ; this is a time of transition,
a time for reflection. The world is intolerant of
violence, and crimes can never persuade our
enemies that we have reached the point of
self-government, or scaled the heights of experience,
where further political education is superfluous.
I know wherein I have sinned, and
that very knowledge gives me courage thus

2i6 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

to speak to you. You, Julie Petrovna, are
angry with me ; ' and she held her hand outwith
a smile, but the friendly advance was not
accepted. 'Ko. You will not even shake
hands with me ? Even my little Martellina,
who has eaten bread and salt with me for many
months, looks at me with suspicious, unfriendly
eyes ; only Esther Eodostamos, the only pure
soul amongst us  I mean politically pure is
not angry with me. Each of us pursues her
own chimera, calling it by the sacred name
of duty ; I, first and foremost, chiefs amongst
such sinners ; Julie Petrovna no less ; and even
my little butterfly of a Martellina has some
small private grudge of her own, some little personal
endkin or gimlet to gratify, quite outside
our grand political programme. Esther only,
so far as I can see, is happy in a pure and
simple philanthropy ; she who seeks to help the
sick, the sorrowful and the oppressed, to succour
the needy, and save the starving, is by her acts
at variance with her principles. Her life is
purely constructive. She professes the tenets
of destruction, but what does she annihilate ?
Not so much as a fly ; ' and having reached
that harmless climax of illustration, Helena
cried, with a tear in her eye and a break in

DISCOMFITURE AND TRIUMPH. 217

her voice that beech her attempted jest, ' I will
say no more, and trust to time, dear friends, for
your forgiveness.'

God bless and comfort you and give you
peace ! Helena Paulovna,' whispered Esther
Eodostamos as, half an hour later, she kissed
her hostess in farewell.

Good-bye, God bless you ; think of me,
pray for me, my sweet Esther,' Helena replied.

Julie de Kerezoff so managed that her farewells
should not pledge her palm to that of
the traitress,' as she mentally designated
Countess Perowsky.

There is treason in the camp,' she whispered
to Mellin, whom she met on the threshold as
she went out. He had lost his pedlar's pack by
the way, and was in all the glory of official
tenue ; stars, orders, and ribands galore.

But he only shook his head and smiled.

As for you, my poor child,' Helena said,
gently smoothing back Bianca's hair as she stood
looking after her last guest, ' I do not know
whether speech or silence be best ; in doubt, I
choose the latter ; but yours is an infatuation
within an infatuation. It will perhaps burn
itself out in the pure heat of its own vestal
fire, and leave nothing but a little cloud of

2i8 A UT CSAR A UT NIHIL.

fragrant incense behind. But at your age, my
child, Life was (to me) already a bitter reality,
and yet I know not how to guide you for
the best, despite the lessons of experience, and
my care and love. Write to your mother,
to-night, before sleeping. Nature finds its own
remedy ; we intermeddlers only mar the work.'



Chapter XLV.
love's young dream.

BiANCA sat pen in hand and pondered, but
tier letter to her mother did not get itself
written.

She would wait.

Her triumph could not now be long delayed,
and in its completeness lay her justification.
Mellin had chosen her ; he could not draw back
now. By his own open and unblessed choice
he had tacitly pledged himself to a certain
course of action. She could afford to wait.

With the divine blindness of youth, believing
what it wishes to believe, self-confident,
ardent, romantic, Bianca was yet so much a child
in all her girlish folly that the unconditional element
of a woman's riper love, fear, was entirely
absent ; infatuated with the fantastic phantoms
of her own excited imagination, Bianca went
triumphantly along her glorified way.

220 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Again and again she wondered that Mellindid
not come ; again and again she reassured herself,
and pleased her fancy by rehearsing the probable
how and when ' of his formal declaration.

In the confusion that ensued upon the explosion
in the Winter Palace, Bianca's letter
had disappeared ; it seemed probable that
Mellin had destroyed it with the papers which
he had so hastily reduced to ashes the same day,
and of which no damnatory remains could be-allowed
to betray his connection with subsequent
disaster.

All was confusion.

His hurried words to Bianca that evening
certainly implied that the Countess would
make some communication to her, but although
the carriage duly came to take her home, she
found the house empty on her arrival, and the
general excitement, the coming and going,,
and the fever of gossip that followed the
explosion were too overpowering for the girl to
obtrude her petty personal affairs on a great
lady absorbed in all the cares of the Court
mourning which almost immediately followed,
and pre-occupied by endless discussion of the
question of social disintegration.

Julie de KerezofF, for prudential reasons,

LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM. 221

kept very quiet just at this time, and thus it
came about that Bianca only learned her
mother's bad news, when the telegram explaining
how the error had arisen, was put into her
hands.

Her own condition was one of too much
mental excitement for anything unless it bore
upon her immediate surroundings, to touch her
very nearly. Two thoughts animated her.

Melhn had judged her worthy to be his
chosen instrument; had, in fact, selected her
out of all those at his command to do the work
in hand. Mellin had shown a tenderness, not
at all in accordance with his general character,
and, at the eleventh hour, had exposed himself
to the charge and reproach of inconsistency, by
throwing up the whole arrangement, changing
his scheme, or at least the persons selected to
execute it, and, at the cost of frantic labour
and a dangerously narrow margin of time,
conducting the whole matter, as it were, by a
miracle, to a safe conclusion.

Why had he done this ?

Because  there could be no doubt about it 
the infatuated girl told herself, his heart bade
him ! The honour he would have allowed her, as
his chosen instrument, to reap side by side with

222 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

him, at the risk, at the cost of life, had seemed
to him too dearly bought, at the price of possible
sacrifice. Degrading her, on the one
hand, from, that pedestal where he had elected
to place her, robbing her of the nimbus of
glory which she was to share with him,
he had, on the other, by the saving and
succouring quality of his love, raised her to a
yet higher pinnacle. Who knew but that, side
by side with him, she might go down to posterity,
the executrix of a new dispensation?
Who could say but that they two might be
called upon to bear together the beacon-light
of Liberty, to lead the van of the vast army
gathered beneath the banner of Freedom, and
to head the march of Independence ? Visions
of the Goddess of Liberty, of Joan of Arc, of
Boadicea, of Zenobia, of Semiramis, of Cleopatra,
passed across the girl's excited brain. The
women of antiquity were not dead ; the Spartan
mothers, the Eoman matrons, had left many an
inheritrix of their daring resolution and courage
behind ; it was only occasion, opportunity, that
failed the women of to-day, smothered by the
commonplace of centuries. When the time
was ripe they too would be found ready, despite
the vulgarisms of a material age.

LOVERS YOUNG DREAM, 223

Let Esther Eodostamos, with all her beauty
and twice her wealth, put forth what fascinations
she might, it mattered not. Let women
lovely as Aurora, bewitching as Euphrosyne,
try the potency of their spells, they would try
them in vain, the infatuated girl declared
triumphantly to herself.

Mellin loved her.

He had loved her at Sprudelheim ; he had
loved her on the wild hill-side when, with cold
and lingering hand, he had hung that sign
about her neck which pledged her to him and
his, body and soul, for life and death. He had
loved her when he had striven, beneath assumed
coldness of manner, to hide his secret emotion
from curious and prying eyes. But duty to
the Cause,' duty to his country, laid a repressive
finger on his lips and reduced him to
implicit silence. What matter? Was she a
vulgar girl to flaunt her lover, or boast of him
to a pack of envious companions? Did the
commonplace aspects of marriage, and the
prosaic picture of humdrum happiness, offer
such potent attractions that she need desire
that routine consummation of the stereotyped
wedding-cake, and the regulation-bridesmaid's
order, so ' devoutly wished for ' by the 

eut CSAR AUT NIHIL.

day, colourless, insignificant type of conventional
young lady ? Bah ! He loved her, and
love is enough,' the poor deluded child declared
to herself, as she walked to and fro in
an ecstasy of triumph and joy.

She paused, clasped her hot and throbbing
head between her cold hands, and pressing her
face close to her mirror, looked long and fixedly
at it. All she could see were two glowing,
brilliant eyes, the pupils unnaturally dilated, returning
her ardent gaze with radiant scrutiny.
Was she fair ? Had she inherited her mother's
beauty? Would she grace his choice? Was she
worthy to be presented to his friends ? Or would
they vouchsafe only the glance of rapid indifference,
perhaps of wonder, that such a man,
so stern, so self-concentrated, full of such silent
energy, should have chosen so slight and poor a
thing for his own ? Ah ! but he should see.
He should find how well she might be trusted,
how secret, how loyal, prompt, and obedient
she could be. Some day she would tell him
all she had suffered  aye, and sacrificed  for
his sake. How steadfast she had been ; defying
all ties, mother, aunt, friends, Fitz, even her
gentle yet determined grandmother, rather
than betray by so much as one letter a single

LOVES YOUNG DREAM. 225

syllable of the trust committed to her charge !
Ah ! once he had said that the ideal Woman
was an English lady. And he had dwelt on
the grace and charm and dignity of that one
word ' lady,' saying it was a crown of glory
circling the simple charm of womanhood. He,
otherwise so reserved, had drawn a picture in
those few words of quiet enthusiasm which had
revealed the gentle susceptibilities hidden beneath
his abstracted, indifferent manner.

It might be that no word of love would ever
pass his lips, bound as he was to duties that
could only end with life, pledged by oaths that
included the happiness or the misery of millions.
What need of speech was there between them ?
He had chosen her out of countless hundreds
at his command to carry out his plan, and then
his heart had risen up in revolt, and the hand
that had been lifted to point the way along the
dazzling path to Fame, was suddenly stretched
forth to snatch her back, in an agony of terror,
from the brink of destruction. He risked reputation,
even reprimand, perhaps disgrace ;
and  yet  he risked them ! Had he been five
minutes too late, had the premeditated plan
failed by the merest hitch, the consequences to
him would have been incalculable. But he

VOL. III. Q

226 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

had ventured all tidings, including the wasted
labour of a lifetime, to save her life !

And then what delicacy, what tenderness and
careful forethought he had shown ! Not in his
own rooms, not to an unprotected girl, an involuntary
guest, perforce the recipient of his
temporary hospitality, liable to be broken in
upon by subordinates at any moment, would
he address one word of the ardent love burning
within his breast. No look, no touch, no tone,
should betray him or alarm her ; he would
bide his time, and prove to her that she had no
cause to count on less than his absolute devotion.

What a delightfully futile excuse he had
given ; he had rescinded his orders and altered
his plan because ' there was a letter for her to
read ! '

Well ! she would pretend to take him
at his word ; she would accept that excuse
until the happy hour when he should see fit to
divulge his true reason. He had not sought to
comfort her, in her terror, by caresses, as an
ordinary man might have done. He had left
her at his feet, feeling that she would divine
the delicate instincts that prompted his reticence
of gesture, and lent an added reserve to his
tone. She would prove to him that she had

LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM. 227

no desire to drag him down to the ordinary
level ; he should walk, untrammelled, unhindered,
independent and free, to the goal he had
himself appointed.

The excitement that prevailed all over the
city, and pervaded all classes of Society, might
have accounted even to more exact observers
for the light in Bianca's eye, the spring of her
elastic tread. Happiness lent a sweetness and
ease to the girl's manner which it had needed
hitherto, and shed a pleasant playfulness across
her tone that gave her a charm which no one
had heretofore suspected in her.

She was ready to spend the day with, and
join in the feeble romps of the shrill little
Kerezoffs ; and even the poor harassed Julie
acknowledged that Bianca had grown far more
lovable, as she marked her merry humours
with the pale little creatures whose young lives
seemed to suffer some mysterious blight.

Count Perowsky, incapable of understanding
the nicer gradations of the feminine temperament,
simply concluded that Bianca (whose
stand-foolishness ' at once exasperated and
attracted his perverse imagination) now saw the
error of her former ways, and, in consequence,
would be more disposed than formerly to smile
a2

228 A UT CSAR A UT NIHIL.

upon such gallantries as lie might think fit to
osier.

The outside world was gloomy, and Society-was
silent and secret, for no man could trust
his neighbour.

The general feeling pointed to as speedy an
exodus from the capital as circumstances would
permit, and on country estates the agents were
busy, and the stoves were lighted, windows
mended, and a trim coat of paint smeared
over ruin much earlier than usual, in anticipation
of the proximate arrival of the lords of
the soil.

Old Prince Karishkin, coming one afternoon
from the Kerezoffs, announced that his daughter-in-law
was so much better that the whole party
might be expected with the first warm days
from Egypt, en route for the Crimea, whither
the Princess Paul expected that Bianca should
accompany her.

Instinct told the girl that she would do
well to avail herself of the kindly invitation.
How protect herself from the husband's offensive
admiration at the expense of his wife's
peace of mind ? How degrade so kind yet so
proud a lady as the Countess Perowsky by
complaining to her of her faithless husband's

LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM. 229

attentions to a dependant, an insignificant little
girl, a chance inmate and member of the
household ? It would sound like a piece of
gross and impertinent conceit ; and between the
disdainful incredulity of the stately wife, and
the indignant denial of the foolish husband,
Bianca would forfeit the esteem of both, and
make two enemies.

And yet  and yet  how leave St. Petersburg
and the Perowskys for the Karishkin exile
to the vast solitudes and green horizons of
monotonous Crimean estates? At Semonow
she would be within a drive of the capital ;
in the Crimea it would be a long journey,
and require an urgent pretext, to bring her
back to St. Petersburg.

As it was, the Countess Helena, who ever
since the death of the Empress had been deeply
depressed, was ordered by her physician to
leave St. Petersburg without delay. Bianca was
sent to Julie de Kerezoff with instructions to
await further orders, and it was with a light
heart she saw the Count and Countess depart
for their country estates. A holiday at
the Kerezoffs, and frequent opportunities of
seeing Melhn, together with a sense of relief at
having got rid of a difficulty she could not

230 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

solve, drove Bianca's moral mercury up to ' set
fair.'

Martellina mia ! ' wrote the Countess.
I am already better for my week of quiet
and fresh air. By the time you come to
Semonow we shall be in first-rate beauty. I
find the time hang rather heavily on my hands.
Please go to the Hotel Perowsky, and in my
boudoir you will find the black satin I am embroidering
for my dwarf screen. Send me the
three panels by our agent, who will be in St.
Petersburg the day after tomorrow. I have
written to our good friend Mellin, to forward
me the books he spoke of, by the same opportunity.
Send me a letter full of St. Petersburg
gossip. Even a little scandal would be acceptable
to your devotees

'Helena.'

Bianca, kneeling by a low settee, the ground
covered with satin and embroidery silks,
absorbed in her own thoughts, in eager haste
to finish her task, lest her parcel should not be
ready for the agent, was packing against time.
She did not see the door open behind her, and
a face full of eager curiosity, and latent mischief
peep through the opening. The well-love's

YOUNG DREAM, 231

oiled lock betrayed no other presence than her
own.

A smile of intense satisfaction, not im-mingled
with fatuity, spread over the intruder's
countenance.

The vast hotel was as good as empty ; the
porter downstairs had orders to admit no one ;
the fireman was absent on a distant errand ;
the porter's wife was a helpless cripple ; the
agent was not to be here for another hour.
The whole Dvorovie (val eta ilk) had been despatched
to Semonow.

With stealthy tread and dexterous hand.
Count Michael Perowsky advanced into the
room, closing the massive door gently behind
him. His very footsteps were disguised by the
thick Persian rugs laid down by careful servants
to spare the costly polished parquet flooring
the injury of chance scratches. Anyone
visiting the room for the purpose of airing it,
could traverse the shining surface from door
to window, by means of these precautionary
rugs ; and upon them. Count Michael now
stepped unheard by Bianca, until within touch
of the unconscious girl.

Her slender figure, seen in silhouette on
the bright background of the window, was as

232 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

lithe and graceful as that of a classic nymph ;
and as she stooped to her work, bending now
to this side, now to that, the perfect symmetry
of her form appeared to the greatest advantage.

She had been so much 'jollier ' of late that,
but for the airs and graces of a certain person
now absent, he might long ere this have established
a better understanding with this impulsive
black-eyed Italian girl, as independent as
an American, as fearless as an Englishwoman,
as impassioned, or her looks belied her, as a
Spaniard. The bigotry and pious vagaries of
the absent semi-saint set a restraint over everything,
which by its silent tyranny reduced life
to a dead level of spiritless uniformity.

Count Perowsky was of that order of
Lothario which holds that the way of a man
with a maid must be a bold and flattering
way, a cavalier and gallant way, a rousing,
conquering-hero way ; not a bashful, blundering,
or tenderly respectful way. It was a
tenet of his, that a woman always forgave
everything, provided the offender only pretended
penitence, and pleaded the potency of her
charms in extenuation of his too ardent admiration.


As Bianca knelt upon the floor, smoothing

LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM. 233

out the lengths of black satin with her long
white hands, the curve of her shoulders turned
now to this side, now to that, her attitude left
her quite defenceless against surprise.

A moment more and two strong arms were
about her, and before she could twist herself
round or escape indignantly from the sudden
embrace, the welcome thought came to her that
she had no need to struggle with her lover. Ina
second, he would release her without an effort
on her part.

But although she rose quickly from her
knees, the firm hold was not relaxed, and the
person who held her was so entirely out of
sight that she had as yet caught no glimpse of
his face.

You are teasing me,' she cried, a happy
smile spreading unconsciously over her face.
I knew it was you. Your incognito being lost,
you may as well let us talk face to face.'

She did not know him in this sportive mood,
but she would have to learn him in all his
moods and tenses, this, as well as any other.
It was not for her to play the prude if his mood
were to unbend.

'Did you really know me? Did you?
Were you not the least little bit startled ? ' said

234 eut CSAR AUT NIHIL.

a low voice at the back of the knot of hair,
against which the speaker's very hips seemed to
rest.

'Frightened? Of what? Not of you,'
she said, turning her head over her shoulder,
with beautiful laughing hips, and teeth gleaming
with glee, a ' goddess fair and free, In heaven
yclept Euphrosyne.'

There was no roughness, no struggling between
them, as there might have been, had the
girl resisted. In her unquestioning faith and
implicit reliance, she suffered his humour to
prevail, pleased with anything he chose to do,
because it was he !

You knew I should not part from you as
I seemed to do ; that it was only circumstances,
prudence, which forced me to act as I did,' he
whispered, enchanted by her passive mood, and
wishing to make assurance doubly sure.

I knew ? Of course I knew ! But why
should we whisper ? I declare I have caught
it of you ! We are alone, and can say what we
choose.'

This was a far easier conquest than even
he had bargained for. So much the better.
Why not ? ' he whispered, releasing his hold,
and Bianca sipped round in the relaxed em-love's

YOUNG DREAM. 235

brace to find herself face to face with Michael
Perowsky.

You ! You ? ' she almost shrieked, as she
started back in a revulsion of terror and indignation.


I  I ? Of course I. Who else ? ' imitating
her stammering accents.

Alio else ? Had she betrayed herself?
Who else?

Well ? ' he asked, his face distorted by a
vicious sneer.

You have played me a dastard's trick ! '

Count Perowsky flushed a deep angry red.
 Those are ugly words, Mile. Martello. It
seems to me you made me  or my rival  very
welcome ! '

You may spare me your insults. Count
Perowsky. Your taunts do not concern me.
You have taken a base advantage of me. I
came here by the Countess's orders. Now,
please, stand aside and let me pass. I wish to
go home. The parcel is there. You can tie it
up, and give it to the agent, or you can explain
why it is not sent  whichever you like ! '

Her tone of contemptuous fearlessness exasperated
him.

If you go out, the servants will believe

236 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

you made an assignation to meet me here,' lie
said insolently. ' For the rest, I am not here to
tie up your parcels ! '

Very likely. Servants' thoughts or opinions
are their own. They are welcome to them.
The parcel is your's to leave or take.'

Or I can tell the Countess that you

had made the appointment with me yourself.'

She knows me too well to believe you'

He felt all the degrading, insulting truth
of the remark, and it did not dispose him more
amiably towards his rebellious victim.

Look here,' he said setting his teeth, whilst
Bianca thought how like a bull dog's the debased
Kalmuck face became, in its snarling
mood, ' you are alone in this house with me.
The fireman is at the other end of the city ;
the porter dare not leave his post ; his wife is
crippled. If you were to scream there is nota
soul to hear you ; you are absolutely in my
power, and I advise you not to exasperate me.'

Let me pass.'

Not yet;

Count Perowsky, you are a coward ! Let
me pass.'

Not until you tell me for whom you mistook
me.'

LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM. 2yj

Never ! Let me pass.'

'No. As you have used my house for a
place of assignation, you shall first tell me your
lover's name, or ' (with an oath) ' I lock that
door and deal with you as I choose.'

What ? Threats ? Intimidation ? And
from you  you  Michael Nicolaievitch 1 '

Mellin stood upon the threshold. The
clear, high tones of his voice, so unlike his
usual veiled monotone, startled both, whilst it
enchanted one of the actors in this sorry scene.

What are you doing here ? ' cried Count
Perovsky, livid with rage and baffled fury. ' I
suppose I can speak to my own servants ! '

'I am here by the Countess's request, to
send her some books by the agent who was to
meet me here.'

Damnation ! '

But it is I who must ask you, Michael
Nicolaievitch, What are you doing here ? 
intimidating a young lady, your wife's guest,
a foreigner '

Mind your own business, Serge Constantia


It is my own business.'

Oh, indeed ! ' Then, with a sneer, ' Light
begins to break ! You are the lover ! It is

238 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

you who have an organised intrigue with this
young lady. She need not be so squeamish,
since she avails herself of my wife's apartments
to meet her lover.'

No man shall insult any woman in my
presence. Let the lady go. I will settle with
you, Michael Nicolaievitch, afterwards.'

If you call it an insult, let the young lady
explain. She accepted my endearments, believing
me to be somebody else. Whom else
it is unnecessary, in the face of this moment,
to ask.'

Mellin looked inquiringly at Bianca.

Oh ! ' she cried, instinctively repelling the
invidious assertion, even anxious to clear herself
from the possible suspicion of levity, believing
in Mellin's emphatic right to an explanation,
' Oh, I thought it was you ! '

You see, sirs said the disenchanted suitor,
assuming his ' Society ' manner, ' I was right.
I have nothing to learn. The young lady came
here by arrangement, expecting to meet you.'

It is false, false, utterly false. I did not
know she was coming. I deny it '

Yes,' Bianca said softly, stepping forward
and laying her hand on Mellin's arm, ' it is false
that I came to meet you, or you to meet me ;

LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM. 239

but it is true that I love you ! I am proud to
say it. It is true that you love me, and that is
to my honour ; and it is certain we need not
suffer this base man's insults. Let us go out
of this house, where the very atmosphere is
poisonous. Let us shake its very dust off our
feet ! Go back with me to Julie de Kerezoff.
It were waste of honest anger to quarrel with
this,'  she hesitated, ' gentleman,  seeing that
his poisoned arrows glance aside and fall harmless.
Neither he nor his treacherous barbs can
harm us. He aims too low ! '

And putting her hand through MeUin's
arm, Bianca, a girl no longer, but a calm and
courageous woman, strong in conscious honour,
and in the integrity of her lover, passed by the
place where Michael Perowsky stood, without
so much as a look, leaving him baffled, humiliated,
and vindictive, to reflect at his leisure
upon the sorry figure he had cut in that afternoon's
performance !

240 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Chapter XLVI.

'A FEMALE SOMETHING.'

Mellin was not a person to blind himself to
the truth.

 He knew that there was no escape for him.
In an hour, unless he forestalled their base mirth,
the ribald laughter of every pestilent fellow
in every cafe in St. Petersburg where idlers
mostly congregated, would re-echo at Bianca's
expense.

Riotous living and an unhappy home, the
bitter sense of a personal degradation which,
after all, he had no right to resent, since it represented
his Sovereign's mercy, a degradation
which to acknowledge would only be to have
the laughers against him instead of on his side,
these and other pertinent, if not edifying, circumstances
had combined in Michael Perowsky
to lower the tone of a character not originally
attuned to high things. If, in his careless

'A FEMALE SOMETHING: 241

levity of speech, he could indifferently blow a
woman's reputation to the clouds between the
puffs of his cigar smoke, what mercy would hebe
likely to show when, baffled, defied, his
vanity ruthlessly trodden under foot, his self-esteem
wounded, and his air of condescending
conquest abruptly quenched, the sense of impotent
outrage and futile fury, only grew and
gathered strength the longer he pondered on
the pitiable part he had played, curtly called to
order by Mellin and contemptuously spurned
by the girl he had ' honoured ' with his insulting
attentions ! He, Count Michael Perowsky, the
godson of the late, the protege of the present
Emperor, rich, well-born and powerful, ordered
out of his own mansion, turned out of his wife's
boudoir, defied by a person whom in his rage
he designated as an ' impudent serving wench,'

and lectured and sermonised by but the

terms he mentally applied to Mellin, are scarcely
susceptible of record in the English language.

Mellin, with face hard set, the death-knell of
freedom beating at his heart and dinning in his
ears, silent, pale, and stern, walked on by
Bianca's side, as unlike a happy lover as is compatible
with the image of a settled Despair.

The happy girl, in her buoyant elation

VOL. III. R

242 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL,

taking all things for granted, never once looked
at her lover. As in a dream, she seemed to
float forwards, wrapped in rosy clouds of light
and love, the golden mist of a glorious dawn,
unconscious of everything, and anything, but
her vast, entire, surprising, and flawless bliss.

You will come in ? ' she said at the Kere-
zofi's door.

I must.'

Oh, Madame de Kerezofi* ! Oh, Julie ! ' and
Bianca ran forward into her friend's arms, hiding
her blushing, happy face on the little woman's
angular shoulder.

Why, what have we here ? What's this .
Ah ! ' perceiving Mellin. ' So it has come to
this ! '

In a few words Melon's story was told.

I must write at once to the Countess,' he
said. ' You, on your part, will publish the
report of our engagement far and wide. I am
forced to follow a course most repugnant to
my feelings if I would save Mile. Martello's
name from slander and profanation ! '

Julie, the quick-witted, saw the whole thing
at a glance. She did not greatly love Mellin,
but she told herself, with a smile of grim pity,
that his expiation had already begun !

'A FEMALE SOMETHING: 243

And now I must go. I would not have
the agent leave without my letter, for more
than I can say. My account must reach the
Countess before that scoundrel's. She is a
perfectly noble woman, but even her nobility
will be better armed with facts, than only furnished
with such poor arguments as she maybe
inspired to oppose to his coarse brutality,'

So soon ? ' and Bianca's triumph faded
perceptibly.

I must.' But not even her evident disappointment
could wring professions of regret
from Mellin's unwilling lips. With a farewell,
only not ceremonious, he took leave of the ladies
and departed on his urgent mission.

That Bianca could no longer stay with the
Perowskys was now clear. Unless she would
consent to rejoin her mother, she must return
to the Karishkins, and oho with them for the
summer to the Crimea. He would urge her,
persuade her, to go home, to go to England
and to her mother. At the thought of Hero,
a groan almost escaped from the wretched man's
hips.

To him there seemed something horrible,
revolting, in this sudden engagement to the
daughter of the only woman he had so much as
K 2

244 eut CSAR AUT NIHIL.

ever dreamed of loving in the whole course of
his barren, loveless life. It was a hideous nightmare,
a waking dream, a fever of the blood ;
and these fancies were but the phantasmagoria
of a morbid brain.

Alas, no ! It was but too true. The
secret, instinctive fear of this strange girl, which
had caused him to avoid her presence, to feel
uneasy in her company, to regret her acquaintance,
to apprehend disaster by her means,
proved truer than Reason, which had found no
explanation for the distaste she inspired in him.
He might have been, so far as age was concerned,
her father ; pity for her mother had stayed his
hand but lately, when the thought of the girl
herself left him merciless. Suddenly, he saw
himself, Bianca's potential murderer but a few
short weeks ago, taking advantage of her importunities
to choose her out of a dozen willing
agents, and now  her affianced husband !

That miserable being, her husband, the husband
of an unripe child, he mentally protested
he would never be. ' That way,' as he told himself
in plain terms, ' murder lay.' How could he
call Hero ' mother,' or enter into any such unholy
pact as the wretched position implied
Nay, more, he would forbid Bianca to tell her

'A FEMALE SOMETHING.' 245

mother anything about this disastrous engagement
for the present ; and, long before there
need be any question of matrimony  why

All the women of his acquaintance, he knew,
would approve, as indeed they would almost
expect, that he should save Bianca from that
fatal feature of Eussian life, scurrilous gossip,
now set rolHng by the foul aspersion of Michael
Perowsky's libellous tongue.

He must place her above Suspicion by the
only act that could effectually shield her from
the foul breath of evil report. The present
provided against, the future would take care of
itself!

As might have been foreseen, the Countess
Perowsky was hearty in her congratulations ;
Julie de Kerezoff coldly approved ; the Parish
were specially sympathetic, since they
really liked the girl, and she was secured by
these means to them for the summer at least ;
and Esther Eodostamos, whose large, liberal
nature had always been ready, despite Bianca's
rudeness and reserve, to adopt her into the ever-widening
circle of her friendship, was quite delighted
to think that Mellin's solitary life would
henceforth be brightened by so much youth,
beauty, and accomplishment ! Esther herself.

246 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

not very impressionable in the matter of lovers,
admired the girl's undisguised enthusiasm, her
unquestioning reverence, her implicit obedience
towards this severe, silent man, so little calculated,
as the world judges of such matters, to
captivate the ardent fancy of an untutored
nature. But Esther was leaving St. Petersburg,
duty calling her to a small estate in Poland,
her birthplace, the home of Chelanska.

Lord Dovedale, nothing daunted by her
laughing declaration that if he persisted (ashe
threatened) in retiring to St. Petersburg,
she would close her doors against him, had
already left for England. As was to be foreseen,
Esther would not permit him to become
the possessor of her portrait, even if Graham
would have consented to sell it. ' So long
as I do not give it away, and refuse to take
money for it, the picture is mine,' Graham
asserted ; adding that Esther Eodostamos might
rely upon his never disposing of it without her
consent.

Graham was also on the wing. A strange
uneasiness and restlessness had made him of
late wonder whether his symptoms might not
be attributable to a sort of unconscious nostalgia
; or whether his own intense personal

'A FEMALE SOMETHING: 247

loneliness came home to him more forcibly asa
stranger in a strange land.

Hero had ceased even to acknowledge his
notes. Late one evening, after the French
play, he was waiting for a droschky to take him
to a house where he expected to meet most of
his friends (for this sort of informal late visiting
is a familiar feature of intimate Eussian
intercourse), when a voice at his elbow made
him turn round and sharply scrutinise the
speaker.

The thin drizzling rain and greasy mud had
caused the carriages taking up, to obstruct the
roadway longer than usual, and some of the
shabby underlings engaged about the theatre,
were slipping across the road under the horses'
noses in their anxiety to get home without
further delay.

Tiens I ' cried the shrill voice that had
grated on Graham's nerves, ' quel climat !
C'est que je me permettrais la defense dun
fiacre ce soir sHl y en avait de disposable ! '
and the speaker dragged her companion backwards
under the portico, as a fresh gust of wind
blew the rain in their faces.

A sensation of sickness, a faint horror, a
sinking of the heart kept Graham immovable.

248 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL,

He stood rooted to the spot, his head and face
fixed as by some magic spell staring straight in
front of him. It was the same voice, those
were the same eyes he had seen elsewhere, and
which had  he now felt  haunted and disquieted
him ever since. But, if he hoped to
escape by not attracting notice, he was mistaken.


A hand laid on his arm, struck a chill to his
heart. Come what might he would remain
silent.

You know me,' said the woman ; ' you
knew me before, and I should have claimed
introduction to the fine ladies, whose maid you
were so attentive to, but that it suited me
better to wait. I am perfectly ready now. If
that is your droschky I will go with you.'

Her companion, at a sign from her, discreetly
fell back.

If you will use my droschky, and will tell
the man where to take you, it is very much at
your service,' Graham answered politely.

His tone could not have been more matter
of fact if he had been addressing an ordinary
acquaintance.

Likely, isn't it ? Look here ; if I don't go
with you, you must come with me. I'm not

M FEMALE SOMETHING? 249

fine enough for your grand friends, but you
won't escape me so. I'm you" wife, and you
know it ; and, what's more, you aren't deny
it, for nothing can gainsay facts ; and I will
ask all the world, and abide by the answer,  If
a man lets his wife starve whilst he fares on the
best, what sort of low, mean, fellow he is '

Starve ! Why I gave you all I had ; you
know I did, only reserving the price of bread
and the shelter of a roof for myself ; and you
know on what conditions I made this sacrifice,'
Graham replied, rage stinging him into the
inexcusable folly of argument. ' If you have
spent the money, that does not release you from
the obligations you undertook. I have no
further duty towards you ! '

But the woman knew her power. In her
lodging, whither, to escape a scene (for she
was either half drunk, or recklessly excited),
Graham presently accompanied her, she told
him that, after spending his fortune in riot and
fast living, she had got a small engagement atone
of the suburban theatres in Paris. The
last few years she had been living with an
assistant theatrical coiffeur, and helping him in
his business ; she was also employed by the
costumier.

2 so AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

The shabby finery, rouged cheeks, and
disreputable, hardened appearance of the brazen
creature smote Graham with an agonised sense
of disgrace, shame, and humiliation. This
female Something  to this he had sacrificed
youth, fame, manhood, his ideal, his fortune,

and his future happiness, and but with a

mental shudder, he drove Hero's bare idea
beyond the shadowy boundary of his mind,
lest so much as the thought of her should be
profaned by community of association with
the dingy satins of this female Something.'

Although generous by nature, Graham
knew nothing of the maudlin sentimentality
which looks with a morbid eye of unhealthy
sympathy upon that class of persons whose
weaknesses and wickedness are said to make
them ' nobody's enemies but their own.' If
this wretched woman, who had ruthlessly sacrificed
his whole life to her own cupidity and
unscrupulous selfishness, had been as dear, as
she was distasteful, to him, he could scarcely
have acted more generously towards her than
he had done. Were he to lavish a fresh fortune
on her, or endeavour to reclaim, and place
her under some sort of moral restraint, it would
avail nothing. The master spirit of evil had

'A FEMALE SOMETHING: 251

marked her for his own. The brand was upon
her, and the badge of her servitude no longer
inspired her with any feeling of shame. Her
fierce voice, hot spirit-poisoned breath, and hard
and haggard face were horrible, heart-rending,
hopeless. Alternately wheedling and threatening,
using flatteries or imprecations as the spirit
moved her, the unhappy woman dwelt chiefly
and with evident relish on her power to degrade
Graham, and render further intercourse with
his ' grand ' friends impossible. He did not
reply that the threat had lost all power, since
he was on the eve of leaving St. Petersburg,
but he bore her insults patiently until, from
sheer exhaustion, the brazen tongue ceased its
metallic discord. At last he rose to go.

What are you going to do for me ? ' she
asked fiercely.

Nothing ; it would be useless.'
The law forces you to maintain me.'
Perhaps. But we need not argue. You
have had all that was mine to give. What I
have earned I need now to live ; it will keep
me out of the workhouse as an old man.'

You shall not go. Money I must have 
and will ! '

Graham had been feeling in his paletot,

252 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL,

and now, without answering, lie turned the
contents of his pockets out upon the table.
Then, taking out the diamond solitaire and
sleeve links, lucky accidents of evening dress,
he laid them down before the woman, whose
fingers were already busy, greedily clutching at
the gold, and, without another word, left the
room.

As he crossed the threshold she shouted
after him : ' Since you have done this you can
do more ! ' but he hastily drew the door behind
him into the lock, eager to escape, to shake off
the degradation of her dwelling, to breathe a
purer air after the foul and vitiated atmosphere
of vice and greed.

Not for her sake was the costly gift bestowed,
alas ! no, but for her womanhood's
sake. Lost, degraded, doomed as she now
was, she had once shared with the bright and
beautiful of her sex, in that fair prerogative, to
which every manly man involuntarily does
willing homage.

Graham made no further adieux.

He left the city of the Neva without saying
farewell to any of his friends. But England no
longer held any attractions for him. This encounter
with the spectre of his ruined youth

'A FEMALE SOMETHING.' 253

made him shrink from the idea of a meeting
with Hero, and in his dark and despairing
mood he determined for the present to hold
himself aloof from his kind, and to see what
balm a summer's wandering might bring to his
bruised spirit.

254 AUJ CSAR AUT NIHIL.

CHAPTER XLVII.

'A CHARMED LIFE.'

The impulse towards education and enlightenment,
which had produced such extraordinary
and rapid development in Russia during the
earlier part of the century, had in the last
twenty years entirely lost its original character 
that of cultivated Liberalism, pure and simple 
to assume a complicated and complex aspect,
troublesome and depressing to many of its
original adherents.

Melhn, a Nihilist of the old original type,
though nearer forty than fifty, was yet old
enough to regret the old formulae of Liberal
faith, and to despair over the conflicting
elements of modern development.

A great foreign statesman  the greatest
statesman of the day  had proclaimed his conviction
to whomsoever had ears to hear, or a
mind to understand, that the ' Latin races were
played out ! '

'A CHARMED LIFE: 255

Since Pan-teutonic was a future not to
be tamely contemplated by antagonistic races,
Pan Slavish must be opposed to Prussia's arrogant
political programme ; and forthwith, a
watch word resounded from north to south,
from east to west, and a propaganda was
initiated to carry the gospel of race, and resistance,
to the remotest Slavonic tribe, and to
preach the new doctrine of Slavophilism with
energetic protest.

If the Latin races really were played out,
so much the more reason, in the absence of
potential alliances with alien peoples, that the
doctrine of Blood and Brotherhood should be
proclaimed to the remotest provinces, where
the Slav ran the danger of succumbing to
the Teuton !

The new doctrinaires dwelt with emphasis
on the fact that the enmity between Euss and
Pole was a factitious enmity, an artificial,
incidental antagonism ; that the rival creeds
of Eome and Byzantium, the opposing Greek
and Latin culture, the alphabets and Literatures
which had been used to foment old grievances
and to widen old breaches, were, in fact, as
nothing, mere unimportant matters of detail,
compared with the one significant, dominant.

256 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

and all-embracing truth of a common Slav
origin !

It was whispered that the heir to the throne
was strongly Slavophil in his sentiments ; and,
since all heirs are popularly supposed to vote
secretly with the Opposition, the brighter and
better side of the movement, that patriotic and
loyal following which made pride of nationality,
and faith to their own country and people
a sine qua non declared triumphantly that
they had the full sympathy of the coming
Euler, who, from obvious motives of policy,
was obliged for the present to hold his tongue.

But with the cry of ' Russia for the Eussians ! '
a new complication arose.

Former sovereigns, recognising the impossibility
of moving the apathetic spirit of the
people to spontaneous development, had invited
foreign aid to the initiation and perfection
of civilised arts. The overseers of all great
landed estates were German ; industry, intelligence,
order, and conscience, were required
in agricultural pursuits as well as in the complex
divisions and sub-division of public offices,
where the German system had to be inaugurated
and kept going by well-trained German
bureaucrats, indoctrinated with those principles

'A CHARMED LIFE: 257

of phenomenal punctuality and pig-tail parsimony
which had enabled the Great little Frederick
to leave his heirs and assigns the rare and
inestimable legacy of a flourishing exchequer,
in spite of the Seven Years' War.

It was a well-known fact that in preceding
reigns, Germans had been invited to emigrate,
under specially favourable conditions ; and the
Baltic provinces, swarming with a mixed population,
pointed to the successful results of
imported civilisation. That which could not
be cultivated from within, must be imported
from without. Posts in the army, the navy,
the admiralty, at Court, and in the numerous
public offices, were all largely held by men of
German origin. In many instances the patronymic
alone testified to the fact of Teutonic
descent  the family established three or four
generations back on Eussian soil, having become
both by birthright and in feeling loyally
Eussian  yet the long smouldering jealousy of
the predominance of the Teutonic element in the
State, needed but the new cry of the Slavophile
party, and what had been a negative grievance,
a passive injury, became a positive outrage, and
an active wrong, with those clamourers whose
watchword was ' Russia for the Eussians ! '

VOL. III. s

258 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

Moscow, always regarded with veneration
by the true Muscovite  the proverb says,
'Petersburg is my pride, but Moscow holds
my heart'  as the head quarters of the Slaves
party, with Akasow at its head, was
looked upon by the neo-politicians as the true
Capital ; whilst the comparatively modern
growth of St. Petersburg, with its concession
to western ideas, was contemptuously spoken of
as a place for foreigners, a Eussian Paris, where
a hybrid civilisation, and the compromise of all
that was purely Eussian, had wiped out the
distinctive features of national life.

The execrated Tchinovik or organised officials,
the bugbear of Eussian hatred, stank
doubly in the popular nostrils, now that the
Oppressor was explained to be twice a traitor ;
first as the blood-sucker, tax-collector, and
tyrant of the poor ; secondly as an alien and a
foreigner ; a greedy German, battening on
Eussian blood and fattening on Eussian money !

Immensely popular'amongst urban populations
were coarse caricatures of bloated German
officials, seated on swelling money-bags, and
clutching eagerly at the contents of the poor
moujik's pockets, as, attenuated and dejected,
their unresisting victim pathetically turns those

'A CHARMED LIFE: 259

receptacles inside out, in propitiation of the
greedy and rapacious monster, whilst a mongrel
figure, half-policeman, half-soldier, waves the
threatening knout in the background.

Thus Teutophobia, side by side with Slaves
had added complications to the original
programme, not dreamed of in earlier Mhihstic
philosophy.

Bakounine was dead, Herzen was dead,
Tchernichevski was dead (or buried in the
gloomy profound of the Siberian mines).
Belinski, who belonged to the literary group
including Granowski the historian, TourguniefF
the novelist and poet. Prince Tscherkassi, and
half a dozen more, seemed to Mellin, in his profound
discouragement, to belong to the Past;
whilst in the two Akasows and their associate
Kalkow he believed that he discerned the men
of the immediate Future ; men with whose
names the Nihilistic 'new departure' would be
associated ; men capable of inspiring the masses
of their countrymen with something positive,
something tangible, something constructive  as
for example, this new gospel of Slavophilism,
in opposition to the nearly exploded negative
doctrines of Nihilism, represented by the older
party, to which Mellin himself belonged.

s 2

26o AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

To destroy may gratify the brute instincts of
insensate ' red-fool fury ; ' to create 7nust flatter
the eternal aspirations of progressive humanity !
And side by side with this new doctrine of the
glorification of Each, the propagandist taught
with pronounced carelessness ' of the single life,'
enthusiastic ' carefulness ' of the type.

Again, the ' cloud no bigger than a man's
hand,' which Esther Eodostamos's keen vision
(inherited perhaps from generations of prophets
and seers) had discerned on the social horizon,
had been silently growing and gathering
strength ; and rumours of persecution and
outrage from outlying provinces, of fearful
atrocities practised upon the Jewish communities
by the bigoted and ignorant peasant
populations, were confirmed by appeals to the
State for protection, on the part of a long-suffering,
much-enduring, peaceable people,
and by symptoms of resentment and threatened
reprisals.

Under these circumstances, it was scarcely
to be wondered at that Melhn should find the
weight of his disastrous betrothal oppress
him to the point of despondency, or that it
should superinduced in him an attitude of mind
which, if calm at all, was ' a calm despair.'

A CHARMED LIFE: 261

The natural melancholy of the Eussian,
pervading as it does the songs and tales of the
people, their physical attitude and facial expression,
is only not despair because in its
idleness and apathy it assumes an enduring,
patient character, deeply pathetic to the looker-on.


The Nihilist goes to death as the Fakeer
Fatalist, as the pious Buddhist. He has
none of the rapturous visions of the warrior's
paradise, with black-eyed girls in the garb of
Houris, beckoning him to the reward of material
joys, such as inspire the Mussulman soldier,
dashing into the thick of the fight, with the
cry of ' Allah il Allah ! ' on his lips ; but he has
settled, calm, and supreme contempt of Death,
which it were shame inexpressible for him,
through any terror of the weakened flesh to-belie.


The Nihilist's first dogma is that his life is
not his own. Not his own to use, though it be
in the service of his ' Cause ' ; not his own to
regret, if it be required of him. And, of all the
thousands of misguided martyrs, who have
trodden the painful Calvary of a political faith,
which death alone could expiate, not one has
ever been known to disgrace himself or his

262 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Cause by betrayal of its secrets, or his accomplices
; by appeals for mercy, or by cowardly
compromise.

To-day it is a General, ere while covered
with Orders and decorations, who suffers the
happy despatch ' secretly in the courtyard of
a prison. To-morrow a naval captain is led out
to die, and whilst he looks at his former comrades
 it may be his own familiar friend whose
lot it is, to give the word of command that shall
lodge a volley in the offender's breast, it is not
Ms eye that quails, or Ms cheek that blanches, as
the hesitating words, faltered forth by pallid lips,
send a human soul fluttering into Eternity, and a
moment hence, make the doomed man but a
memory and a name. Next week a batch of
students expiate the crime of high treason, and
go smiling to their doom, in the belief that from
the ground their blood will cry aloud for justice
and reform. They die that others may live, and
they see no injustice or cruelty in their lot. A
man suspected  as has happened, ere now, in
Nihilistic annals  of being a traitor to his Cause,
knows that the suspicion, alone, signs his death-warrant
; and he dies without a word of remonstrance,
believing silence to be the only
expiation for treachery !

'A CHARMED LIFE: 263

To Bianca, now spending a pleasant summer
ivitli the Karishkins, on their Crimean estates,
Melhn was able to write by trusty messengers
such news as might fully have accounted for his
letters bearing so little resemblance to those of a
lover. But Bianca would not have had it otherwise.
The endearments and protestations of
vulgar lovers would have seemed to her out of
place. Mellin should never step down from his
pedestal by her means, nor would she ever
trouble his lofty ends and aims with petty
personal reproaches, or the carping exactions of
a narrow personal vanity, born of the desire
for adulation. To her mother her tone had
insensibly altered.

Though not at liberty, as she believed, to
reveal the secret of her happiness, she could not
disguise the feeling glowing at her heart, the
triumphant sense of joyous fulfilment, which
made every day so many hours of summer sunshine,
of delight, wonder, and gratitude.

The Karishkins, informed by their father of
Bianca's enthusiasm, courage, and sacrifices to
the ' Cause,' saw in her a sort of heroine ;
xmd the Princess Paul, with her natural tact
and native amiability, was never tired of
telling the young girl tales of Mellin's splendid

264 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

services, hair-bread tli escapes, and unselfish
devotion to the work of his life. ' It was
thought he must have had some unlucky love
affair, or some secret attachment,' the princess
said one day. ' To you, my dear, belongs the
sole honour of a conquest, no one else had the
courage to undertake.'

Thus the autumn slipped tranquilly away,
and the opening days of winter found them
once more in St. Petersburg.



Chapter Xlvi.

'OF THE RACE OF RURIK.'

They tell me that you are a traitor,' said
Mellin, looking at Helena Perowska with a half-smile
in his sad blue eyes.

Not even a traitress ? ' she asked, her frank
soul, speaking through her countenance, saying
more than mere words could do. Then,
earnestly enough  ' there is nothing worse ;
and you. Serge Constantine witch, what do you
think ? '

I know you, Helena Paulovna/

For the rest  I am of the race of Eurik,'
she said proudly. 'Traitors and traitresses
grow not on that stem.' She apparently did
not think it worth while to exculpate herself.
Nor did Melon seem to expect it.

They say, moreover, and I fear more truly,
Helena Paulovna, that you are a bigot. They
even whisper that you seek dispensation from

266 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

other vows, in those of the cloister. It is
reported that within Moscow's walls the convent
may be found, which is the goal of your aspirations.'


We Eussians cannot afford to speak ill of
convents, Serge Constantinovitch ; it is Hke
modern ingratitude to forget, or ignore, the fact
that the convents of Moscow became palaces and
fortresses, when secular ruin threatened the city,
and when the yellow hordes of the Tartars of the
Khanates, swept in devastating masses over the
country. Then all were ready to rush for
safety and for succour to the convents ; whence
later on, deliverance, alike from the Mongols and
the Poles, was destined to come, at last. The
convents, as asylums of our hereditary nobility,
not only furnished warriors and leaders of men,
they were the refuge of arts and learning ; and
these survived, to blossom forth again in
happier times, and to prove us something lessor
more, than the mere outer barbarians which
Western civilisation pronounces us to be.'

Aptly argued, Helena Paulovna, but beside
the mark. The cloister is not for you. We
cannot spare you. Your work is in the world.
Prior claims demand your attention.'

My work is in the world. You have said

'OF THE RACE OF RURIK: 267

it, Serge Constantinovitch. I acknowledge it.
The rest is mere idle gossip : unworthy of comment.'
Mellin, with a wave of the hand, passed
on to other matters.

In a few words he opened the subject upon
ivhich he had come prepared to speak to her.
* I sent you the address,' he said, ' because you,
who know Him best, who know him as none
other can, his weak points and his strong ones
(if any), know the arguments most likely to tell,
the sentiments that will appeal to his pride, generosity,
candour, or vanity  you could at your
own discretion so alter and modify the paper as
to drive the nail of argument up to the head,
straight home as it were, so as to fix it in his very
Heart.'

Is it not a hackneyed means of appeal ?
Has it not been tried, ineffectually, again and
again in the past ? '

Who shall say " ineffectually " Helena
Paulo vna ? Who can tell what random word
may pierce the thick crust of apathy, selfishness,
and indifference that interested place-hunters
and wily courtiers have encouraged to creep
over the spent volcano, that was once a heart ?
Why  would you believe it ?  they are going
about inches taller, with their noses in the air,

268 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

arrogantly repeating the fulsome flattery which
they have not scrupled to deaden their Master's
conscience withal. They declare that He bears
a charmed life, and, in proof, they point to the
frustrated attempts of would-be assassins. They
assert that Caesar is invulnerable ; and that
special interposition of Providence paralyses
the hand, and sends the bullet astray, which deferred
Hope aims at Oppression and Tyranny.
Late events have had a disastrous effect. A
murmur means banishment, to the murmurer ;
reform, whether political or social, is declared
to be evidently superfluous, since the Higher
Powers protect and approve, the status quo. The
civilisation of Russia is relegated to the indefinite
future ; liberal and progressive changes
can no longer be looked for.'

Even our rulers are not immortal. Serge
Constantinovitch. We must look to the tranquil
evolution of Nature, which in due course
brings daily nearer the consummation that
cannot be long delayed. We must possess our
souls in patience, and wait.'

You mean for the coming Kaiser ? No, no,
Helena Paulovna ; our great national failing,
our Eastern apathy, our Asiatic indolence, the
Ijenj which underlies all social grades from

OF THE RACE OF RURIK? 269

prince to peasant, misleads us here. We must
not wait. On the contrary, we must act, and
that without delay.'

I do not say " No ! " I am at your orders.
I am willing to obey. But, as between friends,
let me ask you one thing, Serge Constantine
; and you, on your side, answer me
truly. Have not the measures of Eeform
already accorded, been enough? Is not the
fault rather with the Executive ? In what
western country have more, and more radical,
changes taken place, during the last five-and-twenty
years, than in ours ? Think of the
emancipation of the Serfs ! Recall the bitter
animosities that grew out of that innovation,
and broke into open enmity on the very steps
of the throne ! Eemember the discontent of
the landed proprietors, of the nobility, of the
government officials, whose interests were bound
up in a prolongation of the agrarian situation,
and the immense sums lavished in compensation,
to the clamourers who pleaded injured
interests ! I, who witnessed only the " aftermath,"
the later crop of that harvest of opposition
and indifference, who noted the estrangement
of old and valued servants of the Crown,
the coldness of personal friends, the criticism of

270 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

all classes, I can testify to the fact, that not even
gratitude for the noblest gift man can give, or
ever gave, his fellow men, recompensed the
generous initiative, that was taken, alone and,,
practically, carried out unaided ! The class, the
only class benefited, neither asked for freedom,
nor cared for it. They did not even know what
to do with it. They do not know at this very
hour ! The old habit, tradition, and tone cling
to the people, as a garment. The Eussian peasant
needs (and loves) a master. His subservience
is an instinct, not an agony, as reformers
would have us believe. As between friends
frankly, am I right. Serge Constantinovitch ? '

No ! You were too near to the chief actor
in those scenes, Helena Paulo vna, to judge
fairly. History will tell later generations  and
tell them truly, that Russia's great reform of
1861, was no act of Imperial beneficence, or
enlightened humanity, but a concession extorted
by the dread of a general peasant insurrection,
such as our poselenia (colonised Propaganda)
is preaching now to the besotted agricultural
populations ! Thus, you see I do not endorse
your views, Helena Paulovna.'

You can scarcely disagree with me as ta
the question of army-reform ? Was that a 

THE RACE OF RURIKJ 271

sure easily carried ? Why, General Miloutine
was opposed by the whole military council, the
Princes Imperial at their head ! Those reforms,
conceived in the noblest spirit of enlightenment,
were calculated to form (it might be slowly but
surely) the kernel of that civilisation, which since
the time of Peter the Great, we have acknowledged
as our greatest need. But I ask you, as
friend asks friend, what thanks had He, who
braved the storm of exasperated opposition, of
open abuse, and secret disaffection ? General
Miloutine knew his enemies. Their name was
Legion; and his Master knew that for every
enemy of the general's he could reckon a score
of his own. Do I speak the truth. Serge 
? '

'As between friends you do, Helena

Paulovna.'

We are children ! the nation is childish ! A
new toy, a new religion, a new scheme, a new
political leader, a new French idiom, and weare
only too eager to adopt it ! We are unripe
for change, unfit to govern ourselves ; we
preach a propaganda for which the peasant has
no heart and no mind. You paint his wrongs
to him in glaring colours, he listens apathetically,
thinking you a madman, and he bears

272 Au Calmar AUT NIHIL.

with you patiently, believing you to be drunk ;
but one day vodki kills his patience, he falls
upon and beats you, and binds you with bonds
and carries you before the governor of your
province, and denounces you. In the towns, I
do not say but there is agitation, discontent,
rebellion ; but our towns constitute only a tenth
of the entire population  (only one-tenth of
which is able to read and write !)  and most
of these so-called Towns are only large villages
miles upon miles apart ! But, taking the real
Towns, those for instance of 10,000 or 15,000
inhabitants,  they form only four or five percent,
of the entire population, i.e. about three or
four millions all told. The Government, which
has under its orders the military contingent of
the entire population, that is, 1,200,000 soldiers
(to say nothing of police), can transform the
five or six principal towns, the only places where
any movement on a large scale is possible, into
very military camps, as indeed they are !
That is common sense, Serge Constantine witch ! '
You forget, Helena Paulovna, that disaffection
undermines the army in all its grades and
ranks. You forget that the entire garrisons of
several of our fortresses are gained over, that the
co-operation of the jailers is secured, and that

'OF THE RACE OF RURIK: 273

prisoners communicate with us, unsuspected by
the governors of Prisons.'

And still, I declare my belief that all
agitation is premature, unwise, futile. In many
cases what does it amount to ? To petty vanity,
personal discontents, a restless desire for change,
an idle trust in some chance, some miracle called
'' regeneration." But the nation, the homogeneous
mass that stands behind the throne 
the thirty-six compact millions of men  they
have no understanding for your revolution, no
sympathy with your clamours. These doctrines,
they say, are good for a few tees montes,
hysterical students, emancipated women, swaggerers
and vain boasters ; but the Nation, the
good Eussian nation, knows nothing of such
innovations ! Look you. Serge Constantinovitch !
Alexander II. gave liberty to 22,000,000 peasants.
In 1860 there were 1,260 kilometres
of iron roads ; in 1879, there were 21,870
kilometres of railroad. In 1860 there was
only one, that is, the State Bank, in Russia ;
there are now three hundred and foi-teen
banks, besides one hundred " credit " companies
and twenty-one hypothecated banks. In 1852
there were eighty-two public companies, with
shareholders and boards of directors, and a

VOL. III. T

274 A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

gross capital of sixty-four millions of roubles ;
at the present moment there are five hundred
such companies, disposing of a capital of
3,235,000 of roubles!'

You have a good memory, Helena Paulo
vna.'

Nay, I do not trust to memory ; these are
facts, authenticated, substantiated facts,' she
answered, laying a paper on the table beside
him, 'look and judge for yourself. We are so
apt to take all good things for granted, that it
is only justice towards our enemies, if now and
again, we look at the other side of the question.
Bare and bald as my list is, you will agree that
these facts have their significance, and ought, if
we are honest, to temper our jeremiads

I confess that the beginning was hopeful.'

The beginning ? And the middle ? Why,
to deny their merit is to offer me  me  a cruel
insult. Did I not, day and night, week, month
and year, plead the people's cause ? And did
I ever meet with a rebuff, a cold, hasty,
impatient answer, reproof or ridicule ? Never !
The whole nature of the Man, deeply impressed
with the poverty of a despotism that
chose Death rather than Defeat, in an unrighteous
cause, was full of noble aspirations, of

'OF THE RACE OF RURIK: 275

generous initiative, of unselfish daring. No, no.
Serge Constantinovitcli ; the years have fled and
each has taken something on its wings ; some
trust betrayed, some hope deferred, some affection
outraged, some service ignored, some wound
unhealed; and disappointment, ingratitude,
loneliness, misunderstanding, discouragement,
have done their melancholy work. Not even
the eagle always soars ! As he flies at the rising
sun, fearless and free, the servile world applauds
the daring feat to the echo. He is the
king of birds ! But pluck the strong feathers
from his wing, peck persistently at his aspiring
heart, forget your heartening paeans of praise,
and, with drooping crest and vision dimmed,
he misses his mark, and blindly reels to ruin ! '

In her excitement Helena Perowska stopped
short before Mellin, and sweeping the curtain
from the window, looked up at the eastern
heavens.

It was almost as though she expected to
verify her vision in the skies.

There was a pause.

And you,' said Melhn, ' you -justify him ! '

The word is well chosen. Serge Constans
I  justify '

That is  you are generous ; you '

T 2

276 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

'No, no,* she said hastily, and as if
weary of the subject. ' There is no need for
generosity ; only a demi-god could do what we
expect of One weak Man. I do as I would
be done by, that is all, and I hate injustice.
For the rest, I am a mere instrument  a tool.
I have not to think ; I have only to obey.
The proof? Well, it is here. Shall I read it to
you? I have not altered your rough draft
much,' and she took a paper from the folds of
her bodice.

It is well. Proceed, Helena Paulovna,'
Mellin replied, with evident relief ; ' I am all
attention.'

And without further preamble she began : 

Arise, Russia ! a by word and a reproach
amongst the nations, devoured by enemies,
ruined by slavery, shamefully oppressed, and
vilely sold by the baseness and treachery of
those who eat thy bread ! Awake from thy
long sleep of ignorance, indolence and apathy.
Arise, Russia ! and awaken the successor
of the Tartar Khans, and stand erect before the
throne of the Oppressor, and demand of Him
a reckoning for the national misfortunes ! Tell
him, speak boldly the words of truth, and tell
him that his throne is not the altar of the All

OF THE RACE OF RURIK.' 277

Powerful, and that the Almighty wills no
longer that we should be slaves. All the
Russia, Tzar, had confided to thee the
supreme power, and thou wert as a god upon
earth to the waiting nations that called thee
Father and Lord. And what has been their
reward? Blinded by pride and dower, deafened
by the adulations of wicked men, thou
hast forgotten Russia, thy mother-country, thy
child. Thou hast consumed thy life in inventing
uniforms, in designing buttons, in counting
Thy battalions, in reviewing troops, in smelling
pipe-clay, in prancing on parade-grounds, a
military masquerader, whilst the World has
wondered ! The stranger and the alien suck thy
children's blood. Dismiss the Teuton traitor
from thy court and councils. The rapacious
Tchinovih (official world) grind the faces of thy
patient poor, and gloat over the groans of the
starving and the sick. The despicable censors
of a fettered press, in obsequious and servile
devotion, blot, burn, and silence the prayers
and murmurs of thy patient and long-suffering
people. The voice of truth is not allowed to
penetrate the purple chambers of thy palaces
or trouble thy repose ! No faintest echo of her
sacred accents can reach thy ears. Thou hast

278 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

buried her. Thou hast rolled a mighty stone
before the door of her sepulchre, and a bodyguard
of thy galloped and gilded slaves keep
watch and ward before her grave. And Thou,
dreamer, thou greatest that she is dead, and
thou believes that, for her, there is no resurrection
! But she only sleeps ! Once again she
comes forth and moves amongst the quick ; her
loins girded, her lamp in her hand ; and its rays
fall far and wide and illumine the benighted, and
show the Universe the darkness of thy people, and
the thick darkness of the nations. Advance,
Tzar, and take thy stand at the bar of eternal
justice ; there to be judged by history, by
posterity, by thy fellow-men and by One
mightier than thou ! Widows cry to thee for
their husbands ; mothers clamour for their
sons ; maidens shriek in horror at the slaughter
of their lovers ; the fatherless stretch forth
lean arms and hungry hands ; thousands of
lives are made waste and desolate, thousands of
homes empty ; millions  faint with surrounding
carnage  drench the battle-plains with their
own useless blood. Not yet is it too late ! Iot
yet. Pause and consider. Bow down thy
crowned crest ; lay low thy proud forehead in
the dust ; seek wisdom amongst the was ones

'OF THE RACE OF RURIK: 279

of the earth ; implore pardon, promise peace ;
bind up the wounds of thy bleeding people,
ameliorate their poverty, mitigate their suffering
; give them the light they crave ; throw
thyself upon their heart ; throw thyself upon
their mercy ; let not thy creatures reign longer
in thy stead ; but learn at last, or recall to thy
memory, Tzar, what it is to meet Humanity
on equal grounds, no longer the Despot of
slaves, but a Man amongst Men ! '

There was a pause.

A bright spot of colour biu-ned on Helena's
cheek. She laid the manuscript aside.

It is well,' MeUin asserted ; - you know
admirably how to obey. But I do not recognise
in this address, the spirit of argument and opposition
that marked your opening utterances.'

'I am a tool. Serge Constantinovitch. I
have no will of my own, no opinions. I have
but to obey.'

The silent plains of Semonow, the vast horizon
that met her wistful gaze, the stillness and
seclusion of a life that had the monotony, if not
the obvious restrictions, of the cloister, had not
been without their effect on Helena Perowska's
mind.

She had not revisited the place since, a

iso A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

bewildered bride, she had been surprised by a
visit that was fated to change the whole
course of her destiny. Her agent had carried
out the instructions she had given him, and this
was the reason of her presence, after many years,
on the abandoned estate. A hospital which
she had caused to be erected was now finished.
New schools were also completed, and her
chief business and interest, during the past
months had been, to find proper persons to
bring the whole into working order. For this
purpose she had applied to a noble lady at the
head of a religious house in St. Petersburg,
and, in response to her appeal, Sister Anastasia
and a younger lady-probationer had been sent
out to Semonow.

Sister Anastasia and Helena had not met
since the memorable evening, when they had
both bidden farewell to their sainted Sovereign
lady ; but nothing could have been more consonant
with the Countess's wishes, or more
sympathetic to her frame of mind. She had
not permitted herself the act of voluntaryism
implied by asking for any special person to help
her, and she therefore looked upon Sister Anastasia's
advent, as a signal favour.

Their busy days still left the two women

OF THE RACE OF RURIK: 281

time for many a talk ; and the Sister, imperfectly
acquainted with the Comites Perowska's
history, believing her to be only a neglected
and childless wife, and seeing her devoted to
her religious duties, thought it no harm, in her
own gentle way, to place the religious life
before her hostess in its most attractive light.

Chancing on the question of vows, Helena
asked her gentle visitant, if in her opinion one
sort of vow were more specially binding than
another ? and whilst the Sister deprecated all
responsibility in her answer, and suggested that
the Countess should consult one more calculated
to give a just opinion than herself, she added
that to her appreciation, the vows to dedicate
oneself to a religious life, and vows to the dead,
laid on the soul more special and binding obligations
than any others.

Then,' said her hostess, ' the one prevents
my ever making the other. I mean,' she
added, as Sister Anastasia looked up questioningly,
' I mean that a vow made to the dead
binds me to remain in the world as long as I,
or, at any rate, as long as another Person lives.
In the World I might be useful ; out of it I
could do nothing  in that special direction, I
mean.'

282 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

To Mellin lie had spoken frankly ; there
was no cause for reticence with him, and every
reason for honesty. Bat, once a freemason
always a freemason. There are words that
cannot be unspoken, bonds that cannot be unbound,
obligations that must be respected. It
was perfectly understood between them that
whereas, with the impetuosity and scorn born
of unworthy treatment, and the revulsion of
feeling springing from treachery, the Countess
had formerly volunteered for, nay, insisted on,
her right to any dangerous or difficult service 
she now renounced all active participation incertain
combinations, and restricted herself to
the dissemination of Liberal ideas, the spread
of education, the amelioration of the working
classes, and an endeavour to check and expose
the rapacity, frauds, and peculations rampant
amongst a class of official nobodies who waxed
proud, and grew fat, grinding the faces of the
poor.

Many of the affiliated ladies had no other
functions, and aimed at no greater results than
these. The ' enthusiasm of humanity,' as shown
in the cultus of the rich idle, for the poor toilers,
was in Helena's case heightened by the tenets of
a strict orthodoxy, and intensified by a devout

'OF THE RACE OF RURIK: ,283

worship of the precepts of Brotherhood divinely
instituted by the Great Communist.

During the silence and solitude of her
sojourn at Semonow, Helena had arrived, by
slow degrees, at the calmness of conviction.

There had been a blustering attempt, on
Count Michael's part, to give his version of the
story of Bianca's engagement ; but though his
wife listened quietly, and offered no comments,
he felt, by the gravity of her manner, that his
story was disbelieved, and that she only did not
contradict it, because she judged the matter
unworthy discussion.

Pondering deeply on the atonement to the
Dead to which her vows pledged her, Helena
Perowska grew to contemplate her own past
injuries as insignificant indeed, in comparison
with those silently endured by her august
mistress.

She, who had given heirs to the Crown,
who had been the Mother of her adopted
people, as well as of her family, had borne
desertion, indifference, and solitude without a
sign, only redoubling her deeds of charity and
her intercessions on His behalf, upon whose
shoulders lay the heavy burthen of national
discontent, the reproach of the disregarded

284 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

murmurs of this exasperated people at unrepealed
abuses, and the moral responsibility of a
state of tidings for which, upon her knees, the
gentle Lady never ceased to implore divine
mercy.

Many a noble trait of her gentle Mistress's
character came back to Helena Perowska which,
contrasted with her own unrighteous spirit of
revenge, shone with a yet purer lustre.

On one occasion, when a more than usually
painful scandal had reached the ears of the Imperial
Recluse, She had sent for the victim of it,
and had begged Him for the unvarnished truth,
adding : ' It must be less terrible than these
wicked reports. Give me, I beseech you, the
opportunity of defending you.' Touched and
abashed by such generous delicacy, her faithless
spouse burst into tears, exclaiming as He did soin
the first impulse of a purely sentimental contrition
: ' There is no second such noble nature
as yours, in the whole world of women,' offering
forthwith to renounce the fancy of the moment,
and put an end to the scandal created by the
liaison.

'Let the sacrifice be made to God, and
then I, too, will accept it,' was the reply. The
unhappy Iady had no faith in the stability

'OF THE RACE OF RURIK: 285

of an impulse, not founded on principle ; she
dared not accept the proffered renunciation
unless made upon the highest grounds. Self
was dead in her ; and those who knew her
best asserted that for many years past she no
longer prayed for herself, but only for Him,
whose weaknesses made him the unconscious
tool of intrigue, the unhappy, irresponsible
instrument of designing and ambitious men, and
unscrupulous women.

Thus, with Helena Perowska, allegiance to
the Dead was doubly insured by new-found
humility born of self-condemnation and repentance.


The new year found her established for the
winter in her St. Petersburg quarters.

A hush, and a distrust of all things and all
men pervaded the city.

People lived quietly, festivities were few,
many families were in mourning for the victims
of the late war, the financial situation was one
of great embarrassment, the political horizon
troubled. Men of avowed Liberal principles
had, to the disgust of the old Conservative
party, been drawn into the Imperial councils ;
a popular general was entrusted with an important
public post ; another friend of Progress,,

286 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

the chosen companion of Akasow's counsels,
was advanced to a position of grave responsibility.
It was said that the Heir to the Throne,
shut up in his palace, marked his sense of disapproval
of things in general, by holding aloof ;
whilst it was added that the two appointments
in the Imperial Household, had comprised at
once a bid for the popular suffrages, and the
tentative advance of an unhappy Father, in the
direction of a critical and recalcitrant Son.

People reckoned upon their fingers how
many attempts had been made against the life
of One who appeared to bear a charmed existence.


It was whispered that if the fatal number of
seven were passed, the Sovereign would die
quietly in his bed. In 1866 the ex-student
KarakofF had fired a futile shot ; the pistol had
been dashed aside by a St. Petersburg workman,
Kommissaroff by name. The following
year, Berezowski, a Pole, discharged a revolver
at the Emperor, but the bullet lodged itself in
one of the chargers of the body-guard ; in
187 9, whilst taking his morning 'constitutional,'
the Eussian ruler was attacked by Solovieflf,
whose four bullets all missed their aim, and
landed the marksman on the gallows. Then

'OF THE RACE OF RURIK: iZ-j

the undermined railroad had been the scene of
a disaster which left the Emperor unscathed ;
and finally the attempt to blow up the Winter
Palace had resulted in the death of a few work-people,
and several soldiers of the Preobajenski
Regiment, leaving the Imperial family intact.
Thus, according to the speaker's political proclivities,
men were wont to see either a fate
deferred, to be accomplished finally with a
sevenfold conviction of the righteousness of the
assassin's Cause, or a signal mark of the Divine
interposition of Providence, rendering null,
void, and of no effect, these attempts to
destroy the Lord's Anointed ; and resulting,
invariably, in the death of the would-be
regicides.

But, whilst his constitutional melancholy
daily increased, the old and faithful servants
about his person had reason to deplore an ever
growing recklessness and impatience in their
august Master. Mysterious communications,
warning him not to go here or there, were daily
deposited upon his breakfast table. He refused
to alter his plans, he persisted in disregarding
the warnings, and he sternly forbade any change
of programme. It was as though he too shared
in that popular belief of a charmed life ; or as

288 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

if, like the royal sage of old, his conviction of
the vanity of all things, and the abiding vexation
of spirit that must endure so long as life should
last, left him as unmoved as the ' sad and
splendid ' Ecclesiast, by ' Folly, Fortune, Glory,
Ruin ! '

Bianca and the Karishkins, Julie de KerezoflT
(now almost entirely estranged by a growing
difference of opinion from a husband she
adored, and whose want of zeal made her
tremble for his future), and Helena Perowska
met again on the eve of the new year.

Melhn was absent on some mysterious
mission.

He alone possessed the secret, and the technical
skill, which produced those Nihilist-passports,
the marvel of experts of all nations. He
had the patience necessary to the manufacture
not only of Eussian papers, but the passports of
almost every European Chancellerie. Down
to the seals and stamps complete, the Foreign
Office paraphernalia was so perfect that not
even the most experienced and wary detective
could discern the forgery.

He made long and costly journeys, penetrated
prison-walls, supplied so-called ' illegal 
men with documents that carried them safely

'OF THE RACE OF RURIK: 289

across the frontier, and smiled to think these
months, as was fitting, would prove the busiest
and most active of his life.

He did not write, even to Bianca, but he
had had one brief interview with her before
leaving St. Petersburg. He bade her hold
herself in readiness for future orders, and
amongst other things (to be remembered by
her as strangely significant hereafter) he desired
her to have two disguises ready, in case of need ;
one, the complete garb of a Sister of charity ;
the other, a correct peasant costume such as is
worn by the women of Little Russia.

Esther Eodostamos wrote to her friends
that she should remain in Poland until after
Easter, but that her faithful Chelanska would
probably be in St. Petersburg some time during
the winter, to look after matters connected
with the hotel on the Wassily-Ostrow.

In the outer world it was confidently
asserted that the Nihihst plotters had, for the
present, abandoned all active designs, and,
placing faith in the programme and promises
of the Liberal party, were content to bide their
time, preaching a propaganda of Panslavism,
pointing to a coalition of forces with the
moderate Liberals and the party of Progress, at

VOL. III. u

290 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL,

the not very distant date (according to optimist
calculations) when the Emperor, weary of the
burthen of power, would resign his sceptre and
lay down his crown, abdicating in favour of
the Heir to the Throne, who was popularly reported
to be sulking behind four walls.



Chapter XLIX.

TO-MORROW.'

Two pages and a gentleman of the bedchamber
were whiling away the waning afternoon
with a game of three-handed whist. A
chamberlain with his gold key of office, and an
air of impatient offence, was recounting, for
their benefit and to his own growing ill-honour,
the order of precedence to be observed
on occasion of a fete to take place on the day
but one following. The nasal tone of his shrill,
harsh voice was interrupted by the entrance of
the Emperor's old and trusty body servant,
whose many years of faithful service made him
a privileged individual, free to address any
members of the suite without waiting for recognition
from his superiors. He spoke a few
hurried words in a low tone to the chamberlain.
The whist players, too much absorbed in their
game, paid no attention to what was passing on
the other side of the room.

u2

292 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

She refuses to leave. I have assured her
that I myself cannot say when our Master will
return. She says she will wait ; that she will
take no denial ; that time is of no consequence
to her ; she frankly says she will not go.'

And she has the sign and countersign ? '

'Yes.'

'Hm! She could not know these unless
a lady, you say  she is veiled . '

'As thickly as a nun. She wears some
costly gems ; she drew off her glove to offer
me one '

What, a bribe ? That looks suspicious.'

By no means ; a ring which she begged
me to carry to our Imperial Master.'

Let me see it.'

Nay. I refused the message, since I knew
Him to be absent, and I did not care to have
the costly toy even for a minute in my possession.'


The chamberlain frowned. ' You were
wrong,' he said ; ' it might have given me a
clue. No matter ; you will not let her pass.
If she absolutely refuses to go, I suppose she
must remain in the ante-room, but on no account
let her out of your sight,' and he passed out.

An hour later the Imperial sleigh dashed

tomorrow: 293

through the darkness up to a side entrance of
the Winter Palace.

The weather was bitterly cold, and the
sleigh bells rang sharp and clear on the frosty,
windless air. Another quarter of an hour and
the faithful old servant admitted the closely-veiled
lady to his Imperial Master's presence.
As the door closed behind her, there was a
moment's pause ; then, advancing to where the
Emperor stood, self-possessed, calm, upright,
and stern, she drew aside her veil.

You !  You ! ! ' He exclaimed, visibly
staggered and almost recoiling, as he spoke.
She made no effort to kneel, or to kiss the
Imperial hand ; she had come not to ask a
boon, but to confer one ; not to condone a
wrong, but to pardon many. The Woman
counted for nothing in her act ; the Christian
for everything. As a Euler, she could not
respect the Sovereign who, beginning with fair
promises and yet fairer performances, had
broken with the pledges of his early life, and
had signally failed to fulfil the programme of
his prime. As a Man, she respected him still less.
A cold husband, a cruel lover, a faithless spouse,
a fickle friend, it had cost him nothing to forget
the devotion of years, and to sacrifice her to

294 A UT CSAR A UT NIHIL

the caprice of an idle fancy. Her judgment
of him was implacable. But, as a Christian
woman, acknowledging herself a sinner, by the
memory of the One sinned against, by the
loyalty due to the Dead, in expiation of a
faulty Past, she acknowledged a duty towards,
and she could pity Him still ! She would
debase herself by none of the lying, conventional
forms which may conveniently cover
the basest hypocrisies, the most flagrant infidelity
; she, the injured woman, would speak
to Him, her injurer, as upon an equal platform
with himself; she would raise herself above
him by forgiveness of the injuries which she
had never stooped to bewail.

Yes, it is I, Alexander Nicolaievitch ! 
she said, speaking simply without ceremonial
prefix, as 'Imperial Majesty,' 'Sovereign,' or
Sire ' ; 'no personal end could have moved
me to this. I hoped never to show my face to
you again. I am here, not for your sake, nor
for mine, but for the sake of Her that is gone ;
for Her sake who, now a saint in Heaven, forgives
the past, and watches over you, your
guardian angel still ! Upon Her death-bed I
pledged her my oath to warn you, if your life,
to my knowledge, should be in danger. That

tomorrow: 295

was the only expiation of my sins I could make,
and  at the cost of more than I care to tell, or
than there is need for you to know  I made it.
That hour has come : you are in danger now,
and there is no time to be lost. I risk my own
life to save yours. Nay, no thanks ; I do it
for Her sake. She had a right to my life, and
I offer it gladly in expiation of the past. Every
minute that I stay here, increases my danger,
for I am watched. I have been waiting for
you already two hours. Will you give me
your word to do as I ask you, that I may goat
once ? ' She spoke as to an equal ; even not
without some subtle hint of authority, as betrayed
by the urgency of her tone and commanding
words.

I thank you. No.'

What ? You refuse ? You let me take
so desperate a step, run such a risk in vain ?
You have no choice ; you must obey. A
voice speaks to you from the dead ; nay, more,
it is a voice from Heaven whose warning you
dare not disregard. In answer to Her fervent
prayer, you are granted time to make your
peace with God.' Then, receiving no answer,
she added rapidly : ' You must leave to-night
for Zarskoe Sloe or Catching. No one need

296 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL,

know. It will be said that indisposition, a
slight cold, postpones tomorrow's review and
next week's ball. You will be supposed still in
St. Petersburg.'

'No.'

You refuse ? You dare not, you cannot
refuse. Not I, not Helena Perowska, but She
who is a saint in heaven kneels to you in my
person, and implores you, by all you hold
sacred, to listen to her prayer,' and, overcome
by anxiety and excitement, the Countess stepped
forwards, and fell at the feet of the man who had
once worshipped at hers !

Sto,' He said again, ' no, I am tired of it
all ; it must end. If this be in very truth the
end, sooner or later it must have come ; and,
in sooth, it is late enough,' he added, as he
assisted her to rise.

She knew of no appeal by which to urge
him. Affection, a pale ghost whose very
memory had passed away ; Duty, a neglected
deity returning in the form of an avenger ;
Eeligion, a thing of state-ceremonial and gorgeous
trappings  all these were ineffectual to
her purpose. One last and only argument
remained. The very thought sickened all the
Woman in her as she stood hesitating, but what

tomorrow: 297

of that ? If humiliation of hers might expiate
the Past, should she refuse to drink the cup of
humiliation to the very dregs ?

There are  others,' she said, the words
coming in thin staccato gasps over her pale and
trembling lips ; ' she  they  helpless as they
all are  love you, and for them, for their
sakes, it is your duty to live.'

Her face was covered with shame and
confusion, but she held her head resolutely
aloft, determined to show no softness, to conquer
Self to the uttermost.

Helena ! ' he cried, and caught at her
hand, but it fell passive, leaden weighted, a
dead thing from his grasp. ' Ah ! the generosity
of women confuses and kills me, shames and
ruminates ! My punishment is to be forgiven ;
my condemnation lies herein  that I cannot
explain ! But enough ! I am weary of this life
of degradation and confusions. I will not flee
before my persecutors, or play hide-and-seek
with my assassins. I thank you  more than I
can say.'

Farewell,' Helena answered. ' Were 1 to
remain I could only repeat the same words. I
implore you to reconsider them. I have no
power to plead, but in Her name. Farewell ! '

298 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

He made no effort to detain lier ; he felt
humbled by her very presence ; it heaped coals
of fire on his head. Had she not declared
that she stayed at the peril of her life ? And
why prolong a scene of shame to himself, of
danger to her, of humiliation to both of them ?
It was better, since it had come to this, to let
it end speedily.

With no more formal farewell than a wave
of the hand, Helena drew her veil across her
face, and with a beating heart flew down the
great stone staircase, pursued by a thousand
echoes, a chorus of vague voices buzzing in her
ears, every corner peopled with shadowy
presences, whose warning fingers added a mute
horror to her flight.

Her faithful Ivan was waiting with a hired
droschky in a neighbouring by-street, and, ashe
saw his mistress, he ran forward to meet her
with a cry of relief

It is I, my good friend,' she said, seizing
his arm ; the mere presence and contact of a
faithful human affection reassured her. ' I fear
you have been anxious. All is well.'

Blessed be the saints, exalted mistress and
little mother,' said the white-haired Ivan,
kissing Helena's hand.

'TO-MORROW: 299

The Count would dine with friends and goto
the theatre ; she was not to wait for or
expect him,' was the message left for her on her
return.

She was only too thankful to be alone.

For a few minutes after the Countess had
left Him, the Emperor stood rooted to the spot,
his gaze fixed blankly on the door by which
she had disappeared. Then, as he realised all
that the scene through which he had passed
included, of bitterness, of humiliation, of reproach
to him, he uttered a groan of despairing
anguish ! What lower depths of degradation
could he know than this ?  that the Woman,
whose devoted love, whose faithful affection,
whose daily companionship, he had sacrificed
without remorse, should reappear upon the
scene as an Angel of Mercy, as a Benefactress,
a messenger from Heaven ! Had she not
declared that she risked her life for His ?
That life which, for years, had been devoted to
his every whim, as to his highest interests, and
that she was now ready to lay it down, a freewill
offering, a voluntary sacrifice, to redeem
him from Death ?

He locked the door, and flung himself into
a chair ; poignant misery stabbed him to the

300 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

heart. He felt small in his own eyes ; poor,
mean, lost, degraded ! His Empress-wife's
devotion ; her delegate's magnanimous obedience,
wounded him to the quick ; better Death
with honour, than existence that]could not be
called Life, with threats, taunts, reproaches,
humiliation, and execration !

As he sat musing, his hand shading his eyes
from the light, Memory carried him back to a
holiday trip, and conjured up an afternoon,
spent in a foreign picture-gallery, where the
idlers of fashion were wont to congregate, and
where one canvas with horrible fascination, had
arrested his attention, and imprinted itself upon
his mental retina.

The Praetorian Guard had killed the reigning
Caesar and his family, sparing not even the
members of Caligula's household, lest an
Emperor should be thrust upon them by the
Senate. The Palace, thrown open to the plebs,
showed a perspective of blood-stained marble
pavements, and blood-bedaubed hangings.
Pools of ominous crimson and gory footprints
traced alike the pursuers, and the flight of the
pursued ; the murderers, and their victims.
Only one of the Imperial family, Claudius,
.forgotten or overlooked, had survived the

tomorrow: 301

general butchery ; and the artist had chosen that
moment, when the Praetorian Guard, anxious
to verify their act of extermination, had returned
to the Palace to discover Claudius, half
imbecile with fear, half mad with horror,
hiding behind a curtain, livid with terror, the
one survivor of the Caesar ! To the bewilderment
of the World, the Guard carried him oflT
to their camp, on Mount Aventine, and proclaimed
him Emperor.

He was the first who had to pay the soldiers
for his election.

It was the beginning of the End !

A monarch, even when least a monarch,
and most a man, cannot cast off the tyranny
of tradition, ignore the import of foregone conclusions,
or deny the prestige of precedent.

It is one thing for the actual representative
of a reigning dynasty to calmly review a long
procession of crowned ancestry, whose learning,
valour, or magnificence, have illustrated the
Throne ; to recall the kingly, soldierly, or
saintly figures which, sublimated by the touch
of Time, lie straight and still, settled now into
stone, in niche recess, in carven shrine or
gorgeous altar-tomb, mighty men of war, the
heroes of an Augustan age, the giants of a

302 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

grand epoch, eloquent in dust, powerful in
silence  flattering to a People's pride, secure of
a nation's undying loyalty  it is one thing,
whether as Man, or as Monarch, to cast a
retrospective glance upon the title-page of his
country's honour, emblazoned with Capability,
Accomplishment, and Worth (such as human
nature feels elevates all Humanity), and another
to turn, with shuddering gaze, from the pictured
crimes of kings and peoples, the dissolution and
banishment of Empires.

The hideous curtained background whereon,
in ghastly accomplishment, the destiny of the
Caesar is fulfilled ; the writhing victims of
popular fury  slaughtered inmates of the
Imperial household  the craven incapability,
the gatherings of idiotic fear, the desertion of
treacherous nobles, the supreme ruin and base
betrayal, all expressed in the hideous leer of
strangled Despotism, as with blood-shot eyes it
falls beneath the Imperial purple, swept  mere
carrion refuse  into the tangled obscurity of
those guilty folds, trodden unheeded of the
hurrying feet of the populace, ' butchered to
make a Eoman holiday ! '  and then cast unnamed,
unknown, unhonoured, ' unhouselled,
disappointed, unanimated,' as ofFal to the void !

'TO-MORROW: 303

Brute ignorance, having sated itself and
waded deep in the blood of its rulers, reels out
to revel with its peers in fresh orgies, whilst
the welkin rings to the echo, and .the mob
salutes with senseless Aves  old, faithless, hollow
cry  the new-crowned Deity of Change !

Such were the thoughts that came to Him
as, in the silence and solitude of his own
apartment, Alexander II. recalled the horrors
of that ghastly pictured scene, and, reviewing
the circumstances surrounding his own troubled
Fate, arrived at a fixed resolution.

He would expiate, in his own person, the
faults, the omissions, the shortcomings, and the
faithlessness of the many. Since a Victim was
necessary, and the cry and the clamour for blood
could not be otherwise slaked or satisfied, let him
be the expiatory Sacrifice, let him suffer immolation
for the mistakes . and the misdeeds of
others ! They bade him ' Beware the Ides of
March,' but if, as Louis XVI. said upon the
scaffold, his death could make his country
happy  he was willing to die. Only, there
should be no fear or faltering, no hesitation or
compromise ; Terror should not hunt him from
the throne, nor Threats disown him.

He would die  as he had lived  Caesar !

304 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL,

For long hours the unhappy woman, whose
warnings had fallen, she feared, on a deaf ear,
knelt before the Ikon of her patron saint, the
Empress Helena, praying fervently for guidance,
pity, and pardon. Then she drew a table
towards her and wrote a few hurried lines on a
sheet of paper. The writing was not disguised.
Small precautions appear pitifully irksome to
the tortured mind. Her letter ran as follows : 

By all that is dearest to you here and
hereafter, by the memory of your mother's
kisses, by your hopes of heaven, in the name
of duty, pity, mercy, love, prevent the One for
whom you have sacrificed all others, from
leaving your side tomorrow. To-morrow
night go with him to a distant place of safety. 

H ' Then, summoning Ivan, she breathed

her orders in his ear and so sat down to await
the morrow.

Her letter was put into her sister's hand
just as she was on the point of dismissing her
attendants for the night, and thus, in two
distant Palaces, two sisters spent the hours of
darkness on their knees, interceding with
passionate pleadings for the august Victim, on
whose account was held this Vigil of Death !



CHAPTER L.

NEMESIS.

Saturday night had passed into Sunday morning
ere, wearied out by her long vigil,
exhausted with a grief to which tears brought
no relief, and reduced to a state of mental
prostration that rendered her incapable of
thought, Helena Perowska rose from her
knees and staggered to her bed. She threw
herself upon it without impressing, just as
she returned from her fruitless expedition.

Her brain, wearied and worn out by the
various and conflicting emotions through which
she had passed, was no longer capable of
thought ; her mind refused to go backwards or
forwards ; prayer brought her no comfort ;
despair could not entirely rob her of all hope,
yet suspense reigned supreme, and the reaction
after the long tension, threatened, when once it
set in, to be long and severe.

VOL. III. X

3o6 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

No tender soul had shared that awful vigil
with her ; no kindly hand, with sympathetic
touch, had removed her heavy, coarse black
gown, helped her to rest, or smoothed the
pillows of her cold and uneasy couch.

Her hair was damp and dishevelled ; her
bright and beautiful face bedaubed with the
stains of tears and the dye of her coarse disguise.
No poor, lost, and wandering waif,
crouching homeless beneath the chance shelter
of bridge or archway, could look more desolate,
neglected, and forlorn than she ! Yet her
outer woman was but a faint symbol of the
ruin and disaster within. The fair soul that
had owned so fair a body was shattered, the
silver cord loosed and the golden bowl broken.'
Sleepless, yet only semi-conscious, too exhausted
to remove the traces of her strange expedition
or to lock away from the eyes of the maid
(whose duty it would be to wake her in the
morning) the evidence of her disguise, yet in
some dim and distant way vaguely aware of
the commonplace, prudential precautions which
her overtaxed body and brain refused to fulfil,
and tormented by the consciousness as of a duty
neglected, the heart-broken lady had reached
a point where volition ceased.

NEMESIS. 307

Through her troubled dreams the early-sunday
chimes rang Hke distant memories of
peace.

The maid whose duty brought her to
her mistress's room, in time to call her for
the morning Mass, shrank back anxious and
terrified at the sight of Helena's strange condition
; it was as though, by her untimely intrusion,
she had committed an indiscretion for
which, later on, she would be reprimanded.
Putting down the cup of tea and leaving the
room still shrouded in the thick darkness of
closed curtains and doubled windows, the
frightened woman hastily withdrew.

It was well indeed for Helena Perowska's
sanity, that mental and physical prostration
wrought a merciful work, during the next few
hours in that tortured soul and body, otherwise
the unrelaxed strain of prolonged tension at
such a crisis must have proved too much for
the fragile frame.

So time passed, and the pale spring clay
reached its meridian, and the Sabbath hours
that had waxed, began to wane.

In the outer world the faint sun arose, and
men awoke to the sense of a day of Best, of
peace, of relaxation, of religious duties,  of

x2

3o8 AUT CJSSAR AUT NIHIL.

home blessedness, or of idle amusement and
pastime.

In most Continental cities the Sunday's military
parade brings together large groups of
idlers ; substantial burghers with their families,
young men with their frances, big children,
attracted by the Hash of steel and the glitter
of gold, the waving plumes, the ringing spurs,
the colour and the splendour of these men of
war. The martial music, heralded from afar
by the beating of drums, throbbing the air
with distant blows, gathers civilian recruits as
it advances, until at last half the city will be
afoot, marching and counteracting to the
sound of the military bands.

In many capitals of Europe these great
weekly military parades are held in front of
the royal palaces, and the ground where the
spectacle takes place, is sure to be crowded
with idle lookers-on and admiring citizens.
But late events in Russia had rendered it undesirable
that the open spaces of the city should
be thus occupied by promiscuous crowds. The
authorities had considered it wiser and safer
(for the time being) to deprive the populace of
their favourite spectacle, and consequently the
Sunday parade had become rather a military in-nemesis.

309

section, professionally conducted, than a voluntary
act of recognition and admiration on the
part of the civil, population for that ornamental
section of the community, which illustrates
the pomp and majesty of monarchs, the circumstance
and prestige of their mighty men of war.

The Emperor, despite the warning he had
received in Mellin's manifesto and Helena
Perowska's unexpected visit; despite the
prayers and entreaties of his fair young wife
(with whom and their beautiful and blooming
children it was his custom to breakfast on
Sunday mornings), despite the ghastly vision of
the previous night, had announced his intention
of attending the usual Sunday parade at the
St. Michael Ending School.

Unstrung by the ceaseless, never-lifting
anxieties of the bygone cruel months, awed by
the stern and determined replies that met her
appeals, yet torn with doubt and distracted by
terror, the mother of his children dared not be
silent. Finding no arguments strong to shake
him in his foregone determination, she at length
drew Helena Perowska's note from her breast.
I have not slept all night,' she said ; ' for love
of our children, for their sakes if not for mine,
read this.'

3IO AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

He recognised the familiar handwriting and
his brow darkened. It wounded his pride that
he should be brought so low as to owe his life
to one whom he had injured.

Why this special terror to-day ? ' he asked.
Has not life been made up of threats and
warnings for years past P Have I held out so
long to be intimidated at last ? Who knows,
to be laughed at, degraded, and be-little in
my coward fears, by one of my own treacherous
officials, perhaps, pointed at as a poltroon, and
an imbecile ? '

Time had been when, like his predecessors,
the Emperor had loved to perambulate the
streets of his capital disguised as a simple
citizen, his adjutant in the dress of a man of
the middle-class, following him at a distance, a
faithful servant waiting with his one 
at the end of the street. Mixing
with the crowd, he had learned the temper,
whims, and weaknesses of the populace, their
superstitious loyalty and boundless devotion ;
and, a Haroun Al Easchid of the north, had
turned his experiences to the account of philanthropy
and enlightenment.

But the memory of those halcyon days
only served to embitter the contrast of the

NEMESIS. 311

niggard and ungrateful present ; a sore and
angry sense of the heartless thanklessness of
humanity had grown on his part into a stern
determination not to quail before threats of
violence and treachery. How often and how
gladly would he have laid aside the burthen
of State cares, and retired into that privacy
where his shattered mind, and over-strained
heart, might yet recover from the aching void
left by the results of all these thankless years,
diu-king which, as he bitterly told himself, if he
had reigned, he certainly had not governed !

Leaving Majesty alone, how could he
consent, without loss of Manhood and of self-respect,
to come down, and go out, at the behest
of a rebellious and ungrateful mob ? Not his
people ! His people, meaning that homogeneous
mass of thirty-six millions, he believed to be
still loyal. No ! Let his people listen ; let his
subjects obey ; and those concessions which he
could not make to threats and insult, should
gladly be made to loyalty, fidelity, and the
orderly spirit of progress.

In the one case it would seem an act of
cowardice and base desertion, in the other it
would be an act of concession and sovereign
grace.

312 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

As yet the Ides of March were not yet past.
To-day was but the thirteenth of the month !

Thus, when somewhat later in the day, an
old and tried friend, one of his faithful Generals,
came to him, and despite the presence of
the fair group by which his Master was surrounded,
perhaps because of it, with tears of
tenderness in his old eyes, and the quaver of
love in his broken old voice, implored his
revered Sovereign to listen to the warning of
his faithful servants, the Euler only laid a kindly
hand upon the bent shoulder, affectionately
pressing the broken form, to lend emphasis to
the thanks his loyal solicitude drew forth ;
then, buckling on his sword, he took up his
shako, as it were to end an argument which
began to importune Him.

The March day was veiled and grey ; the
snow lay thick upon the ground ; the struggling
sunbeams, pale and sickly, seemed to say that
spring was yet far distant ; but the review was
safely over ; and, accompanied by one of the
Grand Dukes, on his return from the Easvod
the Emperor gave orders to take the way
along the Catherine Canal, as he designed to
pay a visit to the Grand Duchess Catherine
Michaelovna before returning home.

NEMESIS. 313

The visit over, the Emperor had re-entered
his carriage when suddenly, as the orderly
procession advanced at a slow trot, some unseen
hand cast a bomb from the garden of the
Michael Palace at the Emperor's carriage.
The shell, falling under the Imperial equipage,
exploded with terrific force. The Cu-caspian
guard surrounding the carriage were flung
from their horses to the ground, whilst the
startled animals galloped wildly hither and
thither amongst the alarmed foot passengers in
riderless confusion.

The windows in the houses on the canal
bank, the lamps in the garden of the Michael
Palace, and those on the Kojushni Bridge, were
shattered to atoms ; the horses in the Emperor's
carriage were hurled to the ground, amidst
confusion and consternation indescribable. Ina
few seconds the Emperor and the Grand
Duke had struggled to their feet, and, extricating
themselves from the debris of the carriage,
they set a courageous example of calmness and
presence of mind. Despite the imploring
prayers of His old servant that He would at once
proceed homewards, for  shattered though the
carriage was, the coachman assured his Imperial
Master he could manage to drive quickly to a

314 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL,

place of safety  the Emperor stopped to inquire
of a poor wounded soldier, one of his Circassian
body-guard, whether he were much hurt ?
That moment's delay was fatal. In his generous
solicitude for others the Emperor forgot himself.

That humane impulse was his destruction.

The confusion and excitement all around
seemed to have paralysed men's wits, whilst
no one appeared able to realise what was
actually taking place.

The Circassians of the guard were struggling
with a man, who, believing that the Czar
had escaped unhurt, was deliberately aiming a
pistol at the Imperial head, when a second
man, until then unobserved (standing in the
gateway of the garden wall, he had been carefully
noting the course of events), threw a
second bomb. It exploded as it touched the
ground, inflicting injuries of the most appalling
nature on the Imperial victim.

The people, up to this moment bewildered
by the confusion of the scene, now uttered
cries of sympathy. Shouts of indignation,
imprecations, and vows of vengeance resounded
on all sides as the mutilated Emperor fell to
the ground ; the snow which was stained with
his blood telling its own tragic tale.

NEMESIS. 315

No one knew, or could guess, how many
conspirators might not be in the crowd which
seemed so suddenly to have gathered in the
quiet street ; but maddened by indignation,
the populace joined the soldiery in securing
the two men who had been seen to throw the
missiles.

The Chief of the police, whose duty it
always was to be in immediate attendance upon
the Emperor, arrived at this moment in his
sledge.

He had closely followed the Imperial
carriage from the parade, but was almost
blinded with the blood which was streaming
from thirty or forty face wounds made by the
splinters of broken glass caused by atmospheric
concussion. Regardless of his own sufferings
and of the obvious danger, the Chief of the
police lifted his dying Master on to his
own sledge, tenderly supporting his shattered
limbs. The Emperor was conveyed, with the
help of his sobbing servants, amidst the prayers
and tears of his weeping and panic-stricken
people to the Palace.

The scene of the disaster presented a spectacle
of wild confusion ; besides the ostensible
assassins a number of persons (supposed to

3i6 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

be implicated) were immediately arrested ;
some thirty or forty individuals who had been
injured by the explosion of the bombs were
conveyed to the hospital ; a military cordon
was drawn up, and no one was allowed to
penetrate beyond a certain hne of demarcation.
Men and women, frantic nth grief and
terror, knelt in the snow, repeating aloud,
amidst sobs and cries, prayers for the Emperor
life, whilst they stooped and kissed the bloodstains
at their feet.

Several women, who could not give a satisfactory
account of themselves, were hurried
away from the fatal spot by the police.

It was commonly reported that Vera
Zasulitch had been seen on the previous evening
in St. Petersburg, and that hers had been
the hand to throw the first bomb.

Meanwhile, all the efforts that skill and
science could suggest had been made, in the
vain hope that the Emperor might rally, but to
no purpose.

Only one word, the name of his eldest son,
passed his lips after the fatal occurrence.

The Czarewitch and the Czarina, the
Grand Duke Vladimir, and all the members of
the Imperial family then in St. Petersburg, who

NEMESIS. 317

lead hurried to the Winter Palace on the alarming
summons, were present when, after two
hours of appalling agony, the Emperor at last
expired !

In the distant Peroffsky Palace the grey
light of the wintry afternoon had penetrated
into Helena's silent rooms. The cautious maid
had gently drawn up the blinds, and slightly
opened the curtains of her mistress's bedchamber,
fearful lest this long, unnatural sleep
should portend illness.

During the forenoon Bianca had called, and
had left, with her love, a large bouquet of
Eussian violets, Helena's favourite flowers, and
these the maid had placed, together with a
small tea equipage, by her mistress's bedside.

Presently Helena moved. She felt bruised
in body and spirit ; conscious through her
weariness of some great trouble, that would have
anon to be realised, faced, and lived through.
Everyone who has known deep and intense
sorrow, knows also, the anguish of these
slow awakenings; the tortures of returning
consciousness, the exquisite misery of still realisation,
the extent and hopelessness of vain
grief, as the irreparable nature of the disaster

3i8 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

forces itself clearly on the mind. Slowly but
surely, by faint and faltering steps along that
cruel pilgrimage, we come at last to a full consciousness
of the ruin and desolation, the final
void that awaits us.

And so it was with Helena Perowska.

She had still a long life to live, she need
not hurry back to premature despair. But as
thought became concrete, and, one by one, the
incidents of the last twenty-four hours dawned
upon awakening memory, a ray of light shot
suddenly athwart the universal gloom.

What if, after all, she should have been the
means of saving that Life left as a dying legacy
to her protection ? What if the Present should
expiate the Past and redeem the Future ? Hope
is not less a Christian virtue than faith and
charity, and men ought not to faint but always
to pray.

Hark ! what was that ?

From every dome, belfry, turret and cupola
in St. Petersburg, from church and chapel and
convent, the boom of bells, the clangour of
brazen tongues, proclaiming their metallic
message, each one clamouring to be heard,
plangent, persistent, recurrent, relentless !

As she sprang from her couch, and with her

NEMESIS. 319

hands pressed to her throbbing temples, sought
to control the anguish of her brain, the terrible
truth, in all its awful portent, smote upon Helena
Perowska's soul.

The city of the Czar was tolling the
Emperor's death-knell ; the Drama of Death
was played out ; the tragedy accomplished ;
fate fulfilled, and the awful story of Doom
closed, for  Time must find its sequel in
Eternity !

Within two hours of the moment He was
first struck, on March 13, 1881, the Euler of a
vast Empire was summoned to render up an
account of deeds done in the fresh.

To use the words of the Imperial ukase,
published whilst as yet consternation petrified
His people, the awe and horror of the tragedy
smiting even indignation into Silence, ' It had
pleased the Almighty to call the Czar Alexander
Nicolaievitch, the Father of the Eussian
people, to Himself.'

320 A UT CAESAR A UT NIHIL.

CHAPTEK LI.

A LITTLE BEFORE THE BREAK OF DAY.

Beside a bed in one of the prison hospitals
a Sister of mercy knelt in the attitude of
absorbed devotion.

The patient, pale, motionless, with eyes
closed, gave no sign of life, yet it was evident
that he still breathed.

Whether friend or foe, whether one of the
chance passers-by, who had been injured by the
explosion of the regicides' bombs, or whether he
himself had cast one of the fatal missiles, or
given the sign to cast, there was no one to
testify. When brought into the hospital he
had worn spectacles and a civilian dress of the
usual bourgeois type, nor was anyone able to
testify to any act of his, that might identify him
with the assassins. His linen was unmarked,
nor were any papers found upon his person
to afford a clue, narrowly as the searchers

A LITTLE BEFORE THE BREAK OF DA Y. 321

scrutinised every detail, before they finally laid
him in the hospital bed.

As he had never breathed a syllable since
the moment he had been found, stretched senseless
on the pavement outside the Michael
Palace garden, his very nationality was a mere
matter of conjecture. There was a disposition
amongst the hospital and prison officials to
regard him as a foreigner ; and it certainly
seemed strange, if he had any friends or connections
in St. Petersburg, that not so much asa
card, a letter, or a chance scrap of paper,
which might have alSbrded a clue, had been
found upon him.

In answer to an advertisement, calling on
persons whose friends were missing, to take an
early opportunity of identifying them, hundreds
visited the wards of the prison-hospital ; but
none recognised ' the gentleman in spectacles,'
as he was called for want of a more
explicit description, nor had he so much as
unclosed his eyes for a single instant since his
admittance. The state of his pulse might have
led the intelligent young doctor in attendance
to suppose his insensibility simulated ; but who
could say that some secret freemasonry had not
already told the surgeon the true facts of the

VOL. III. Y

322 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

case, and inoculated him with a convenient
blindness.

More urgent cases absorbed so much
attention, that both police and hospital officials
paid comparatively little, to the ' gentleman
in spectacles.' A few words to the Sister
in charge, a young woman of the doctor's
own choosing, gave the necessary medical
directions, and even the Ispravnik busied in
persistently interrogating all such occupants of
the hospital beds as had been brought in on
the day of the explosion, thought this was a
case that might very well stand for the present
to the surgeon's care. Several soldiers of the
Cossack guard had since died, and in the
women's ward some severe cases made the
detectives at once irritable and impatient, lest
illness, and finally death, should seal the lips
which might possibly be able to reveal so
much, and allow the sufferers to carry down
their secret to the grave with them, thus
baffling the acute inquirers.

As Bianca knelt and prayed, or attempted
to pray by Mellin's bedside, her petitions formed
one long agonised appeal for a look of recognition,
a word of love, a sign of farewell.
She knew that he was dying of voluntary stara

LITTLE BEFORE THE BREAK OF DA Y. 323

nation as well as of his wounds, and she feared
that his indomitable will would enable him to
carry out the programme he had drawn up, so
to steel himself that no temptation should lead
him by word or sign to compromise his friends.
She could not even be sure that he recognised
her, or knew whose hand it was that cooled his
throbbing brow, offered him drink, smoothed
his pillows, administered, or strove to administer,
his medicine. Her garb preserved
her from any interrogations ; in the fulfilment
of her duties she had no occasion to exchange
a word with anyone but the young doctor,
and when she took her enforced rest, the probationer
watching in her place, had orders to
call her, if the patient so much as made a sign.
In the women's ward, an agonising scene to
which she was called, made her forget for a
moment her own terrible troubles, whilst it
revealed to Bianca the disastrous truth that
Julie de Kerezoff had not only given herself
up to justice, but had confessed that her hand
had thrown one of the fatal explosives.

Since the consolations of religion were not

denied the sick prisoners, it was no one's duty to

interfere ; and the black robed Sister, kneeling

by the injured woman's bed, received her cony

2

324 AUT C.-ESAR AUT NIHIL.

licences undisturbed, whilst lie was supposed
to be endeavouring, by gentle ministrations, to
heal the patient's soul.

Reproachfully, Bianca asked her poor friend
how she had come to such a pass as this act
of insane folly betrayed? And poor Julie,
dropping her habitual reticence, told without
reserve the whole history of a tormented soul
driven to the extremity of desperation.

Born and bred in Liberal ideas, the horror of
her sister's fate had in early girlhood for a time
turned the current of her blood and changed
the bent of her nature, and when the Asylum
doors opened to release the now sane patient, she
took a vow never to forget the wrongs which
she could only trust that time and circumstance
might avenge. She had married in order to
have sympathy and a helpmate in her designs.
But by degrees her husband  good, easy man
had wearied of the whole thing ; he was
disgusted to find no home-peace, no domestic
comfort ; he was annoyed to see his means
wasted, in what he had come to regard as a
senseless fanaticism. He complained that his
house and his children were neglected, and
the excessive devotion to the memory of a
sister-in-law whom he had never known, and

A LITTLE BEFORE THE BREAK OF DA Y. 325

to ti Cause with which he sympathised less and
less as time went by, had brought about a complete
estrangement between man and wife.
Julie who adored her husband, who ardently
desired his sympathy, yet who could not be, as
she deemed it, ' faithless ' to her sister's memory,
was tormented by the hinted suspicions of
Mellin and others, who, noting the marked
coldness and indifference of Kerezoff, were
prepared to see this sullen apathy degenerate
eventually into treachery.

By Julie's desperate act she hoped to remove
danger from his path.

He had not withheld her, and they would
be obliged to acknowledge a debt of gratitude
owing to him. For herself, the poor unhappy
woman declared that she was tired of life ; her
death would leave a husband  whom she had
not succeeded in making happy free to choose
a more congenial companion ; one who, bound
by no indissoluble bonds to the Past, pledged
to no prior claims, would make his home cheerful
and keep his hearth bright.

The natural melancholy of the Russia
character would have seemed to make Resignation
the logical result of her trouble ; but the
irritable, nervous temperament knows no such

326 A UT CSAR A UT NIHIL.

gentle acquiescence ; and, to Julie, life had become
unendurable. To save her friends from
danger or disgrace, she too had given a feigned
name, and in a long farewell letter to her husband
she had implored him for their children's
sake not to identify her.

As the tears streamed down Bianca's cheeks
Julie lifted herself slightly on her elbow. ' Do
not grieve for me,' she said ; ' I am in harmony
with myself now ; all conflict is over. My
wounds are slight, and if the shock does not
kill me They '  with a significant gesture  ' will

not, for ' and a painful flush crimsoned her

sallow cheek as she drew Bianca's face yet
nearer to her own, and whispered such a secretin
her ear as one woman may, in a moment
of supreme confidence, repose in another.

Beyond Julie, in the last bed in the ward,
lay a poor distraught creature, who called
eagerly for some person to whom she could
speak in her native language. Her cries,
uttered in shrill French, drew Bianca to her
side, and at the woman's urgent request she
wrote (at her dictation) a sort of resume or
confession of her life. This paper, which the
patient guarded with jealous suspicion, she hid
under her pillow, until a young man coming to

A LITTLE BEFORE THE BREAK OF DA V. 327

see her, she made him enclose and direct it,
desiring him to post it without fail to the
address she had given him, on his way home.
Next day the woman's bed was empty.
Before the Eoman Catholic priest she demanded
could come to her, she had died of her
wounds, the end accelerated, so the doctor
said, by the chronic state of alcoholism which
had poisoned her blood.

328 AUT CAESAR AUT NIHIL.

Chapter LII.

Large DESIRES, AND MOST UNCERTAIN ISSUES ! 

It was fortunate for Bianca that her attention
was thus drawn away from that one silent
sufferer who possessed all her heart.

Immediately after the Catastrophe the
young surgeon, Mellin's friend, who told her
the conditions upon which he would undertake
to procure her admittance to the hospital, came
to see her.

Region is reverenced in Russia, in the
garb of even the least of its ministrants ; and
if the surgeons in attendance required the staff
of nurses to be doubled, it was not likely that
objection would be raised to their procuring
assistants in the persons of holy women, wearing
the customary garb of the sisters of mercy.

Using the formula of those affiliated to ' the
Cause,' Bianca solemnly promised to obey implicitly
the young surgeon's instructions. These

'LARGE desires: 329.

instructions were, in fact, Mellin's. Knowing
every detail of the plot, he had foreseen
exactly how events were likely to turn out.
If it falsified his predictions  well, the thing
would have to be gone through again. Weary
of life, entangled in an engagement (out of
which he saw no method of extricating himself
at once effectually, and with honour), depressed
by the divisions and innovations of a
Party which was daily losing more and more
of its likeness to that of which the original
founders had been his personal friends ; realising,
not without bitterness of split, that new
times require new men, and that the Future
would afford no place for him, Mellin eagerly
accepted the chance which now offered of devoting
what remained of life to ' the Cause.'

He had lived for it, and could die for it.
Very certainly he could live no other endurable
life, least of all the life that seemed to be his
inevitable portion, unless, by heroic measures,
he asserted the right of Man to prove himself
Master of his Fate !

Whether the supreme consummation he and
his fellow-fanatics so ardently desired, or definitive
defeat, were the result, the logical sequence
of dumb, desperate conviction, required dumb,

330 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

desperate Action. ' Large desires ' must needs
have ' most uncertain issues,' but by the Issue,
so he told himself, he was content to abide.

So, at least, he would not go out in obscurity
and darkness, forgotten of all men, regretted
of none ; so, at least, he would set an
example of consistent devotion and courage ;
so, at least, his name would live on men's lips,
and he, who had led the life of a solitary and
a seer, would become a distinct entity to thousands,
far beyond the limits of contemporary
humanity and of his own unhappy land ; living
amongst those who shared his beliefs, at least,
upon the lips of posterity !

In Julie Kerezoff (with whom he had
latterly been on terms of superficial antagonism)
he found a ready sympathiser.

The devoted little woman, in her anxiety
to remove all suspicion from her husband,
persuaded Mellin that she had, or nearly had,
obtained his permission to volunteer in this dangerous
service. He was temporarily absent on a
visit to Moscow, but she would none the less be
ready when wanted. ' Why should I be less

trusted than Irene Z , Vera S , Katinka

M ? ' she asked, naming several heroines

of the propaganda, ' I, who have a thousand

'LARGE desires: 331

reasons where they had one ? ' and thus, in
secret sympathy, the surface estrangement
melted away, and it ended by the world-weary
Mellin taking Julie into his own private councils,
thankful on Bianca's account that fate sent him
one who was the friend of both.

He confessed, whilst recognising her good
qualities, and not untouched by the generosity
of the girl's love, that he was conscious of a
repulsion towards her which shamed him by
its ingratitude. Her ardent nature, her impulsive
enthusiasms, grated upon and repelled him ;
and then  there were other reasons ; and, intime
the girl herself would come to recognise
his motives and to thank him for sparing her
bright young life.

For the first and only time in his existence,
Melhn uttered Hero's name, with something like
a break in the low monotone of his voice. ' I
knew her, years ago, in England,' he said ; ' she
always seemed to me a companion for any
man. But, wide as her sympathies were, her
education had unfitted her for this. Though,
for a moment at Sprudelheim I thought '

Bianca, kneeling by the silent bedside,
weeping and praying (as she had never wept or
prayed in her life before) saw in Fancy the

332 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

unhappy Princess who, within her four palace
walls, had at once realised all that love, wealth,
power, and glory mean  and all that disaster,
death, loss, and ruin comprise.

The mightiest of monarchs had died a
thousand deaths in that agonised transit from
the snows trodden streets to the interior apartments
of the Winter Palace, where the wail of
the widow, and the sobs of the orphan went
up to Heaven in helpless appeal, in a rapture
of agony and grief such as mere words but
faintly express.

Panic terror, the suddenness and awfulness
the tragedy, had paralysed the attendants'
minds, and as His faithful Cossacks bore their
beloved Master's mangled body  the shattered
limbs unbound and every nerve racked with
torture  not one of those who gazed upon the
appalling spectacle realised the immensity of"
the result.

As the re-echoing footfalls of that memorable
martyr-march struck terror to the heart of
the World, the blood of the most liberal ruler
Russia ever knew, was destined to stain, step
by step, with indelible traces, more than the
snow of the capital !

Compared with the torture endured by their

'LARGE desires: 333

august Victim, each sufferer in his hospital bed
lay lapped in paradise ; and long afterwards,
when her mind by slow degrees recovered its
natural powers, Bianca recalled the Revelation
that had come to her during those hours of
despairing vigil, the later light that was destined
to shine out of the ' exceeding great darkness '
of that night of terror and dismay.

Showing, on her part, a heroism not unworthy
of Mellin's resolute suffering, Bianca
abstained from breathing his name or her own.
She refrained from gratifying her passionate
desire for some token of recognition, by so
much as the faintest touch or caress. What if,
in bending over him, some term of endearment,
barely breathed upon his consciousness, should
reach the ever-vigilant eyes and ears by which
they were surrounded ? What if some act of
imprudence, though never so trifling, should
awaken suspicion, and her banishment, as the
immediate result, leave him to die in loneliness
at last ? No ! if he could, he would : she
rested on this faith, not for a moment mentally
admitting that he could, but would not !

His generosity, in refusing to compromise
his friends, she thought worthy of him, and
gloried in it. Had anyone told her the starts

eut CSAR AUT NIHIL.

ling tale of the satisfaction with which Mellin
had contemplated getting rid of her, by means
very similar to those which were now sending
him out of the world, she would have admired
him for the Brutus-like impartiality which
prompted him to choose the victim (since
victim there needs must be) near home.

Even now she could have envied Julie de
Kerezoff ; and a certain sense of jealousy gnawed
at her heart at the thought that Julie, not
herself, had been the chosen confidante of
Mellin's last earthly acts, was actually the
recipient of his last words and wishes.

Only it was well, she told herself, that
her strong young life had been spared to minister
to his ; to save him, if possible, but if not,
to wait beside his bed, to do the thousand little
offices of love which tenderness performs for
the sick ; to watch the tide of life ebb, since it
refused to flow ; strong and helpful, and faithful
to the last.

Mercifully for her, Bianca never doubted of
her lover's love, and his attitude dispensed him
from either proclaiming or disavowing it.

She who, in her blind enthusiasm and implicit
faith, had never so much as asked whether he
were a married man or not, who knew nothing of

'LARGE desires: 335

his antecedents, family, or fortune (for aught she
knew, he might be entangled in the meshes of
half a dozen different obligations and relationships)
; she, who had been willing to accept him
and his circumstances without so much as a
mental question ; she, who had learnt from his
lips her first lessons in that larger humanity 
which, to the disciple, leaves all narrower faiths
so mean in scheme, so personal and poor of
design, so petty of scope  she, who had wrested
herself out of the dull trammels of middle-class
everyday respectability to sit at the feet of this
modern Gamaliel, and drink from his lips
those weightier matters of a liberal law  to
which selfishness is blind and deaf and dumb,
and for which the self-seeking have no understanding
 she, who had broken with her own
nearest and dearest, and sacrificed Home and
Country rather than betray a trust reposed
in her by One whom she called ' great ' ;
she, who had offered up her girlish vanities on
the altar of the new gods of Progress, Enlightenment,
Liberty, JEquahty, science, and Humanity,
stripping off her jewels, sacrificing her
ornaments  hapjy to be able to give this proof
of her earnestness, small though it might be,
and inadequate both in motive and expression,

336 A UT C.-ESAR A UT NIHIL.

to the sublimity of the ' Cause ' ;  she, who had
preferred a life of dependence amongst strangers
so it realised unity of design, and community
of purpose, with the man she loved  to independence,
luxury, and idleness away from him ;
she, who was willing, if needs must, to wait and
watch and listen for a sign, and yet, if he so
willed, would at this supreme moment let him
go, without so much as a whispered token of
her love and devotion ; she felt with a kind of
strange exultation that she was alone with him !
No one to dispute her rights, no one to overpower
her claims, no one to plead authority
over her, to drag her away from that room
which to her included the whole World.

They were alone together  they two. And
as the strange, fantastic shadows crept and
flickered up the wall, and the city lay asleep,
silently wrapped in its vast mantle of snow, it
almost seemed to Bianca that the end of all
things was at hand, and that Eternal Might would
fitly close the twilight hush and deep sepulchral
gloom.

It came, that dread Summons, that awful
Message, on the morning of the fourth day,
upon the stroke of dawn.

At the sound of the warning to render up

'LARGE desires: 27

an account of all deeds done in the flesh, as
though answering some invisible roll-call,
Mellin suddenly reared himself in his bed, his
right hand raised in token of response, his lips
parted as in reply. His sightless eyes, unclosing
for one brief moment, seemed to search
the Unknown with eager questioning ; then,
as though dazzled, the ardent intensity of his
gaze suffered eclipse, and with a sigh of profound
satisfaction, as of labour ended, work
fulfilled, duty done, he sank back once more
into the attitude of profound repose, and had
ceased to exist !

He died, as he had lived, a secret, self-contained,
solitary, silent man ; strong in the courage
of his convictions. A visionary, a conspirator, a
humanitarian, and a Regicide !  faithful unto
death, in the firm belief that his life had been
spent  as it was sacrificed  in a righteous
Cause !

VOL. III.

338 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

CHAPTER LIII.

NEWS FROM AFAR.

A YEAR had not yet elapsed since Graham left
St. Petersburg.

There comes a period in the life of many
men, and of some women, when, forced by
circumstances to take stock of existence, they
realise with crushing intensity that existence,
for them, has in effect meant nothing but
failure.

Looking back to the courage and aspirations
of earlier years, when, despite the reverses
of fortune, hope rose above defeat, and
enterprise followed quickly upon disaster, and
contrasting the spirit and temper of those times
with the profound discouragement of these
later days, the thoughtful man realises that
he has reached a point which in happier lives
means a gradual relinquishment of effort in
favour of younger aspirants ; a daily crease

FROM AFAR. 339

ing appreciation of the blessings of a well-earned
repose. In view of that which he
had meant and intended, the sum of that
which he has accomplished and attained, seems
poor and pitiful ; for the greater the aim and
the effort, the more evident must be the poverty
of result. And if to men this phase of existence
means acute suffering, what does it not
include to women, who, having striven and
hoped, and, as they believe, failed to achieve,
see themselves relegated, at that moment of life
when they most stand in need of sympathy, to
solitude and neglect ? ' Too old,' as Faust says,
still to play ; too young to be without desire,'
they have lost the spring and hopefulness of
youth, without having reached the repose of
old age. They stand, rejected by the young,
not yet enrolled amongst the old ; conscious of
failure, and yet more conscious of the utter
absence of hope. To others, as time has gone
by, it has brought amelioration, fulfilment,
compensation. To them it has brought nothing
but a sense that all has been in vain, and that
sustained effort has only meant prolonged
reverses and repeated disappointment.

Happy the men and women who, dispensed
from the necessity of effort, set courageous sail
z2

340 AUJ CSAR AUT NIHIL.

on their life-journey, enjoying all ages, all climes,
all experiences ; who find friends in every port,
exchange greetings on all the grandes routes,
and even gather passing entertainment from the
by-ways of life ; who arrive in harbour at last,
thankfully acknowledging the good-fellowship,
the fair weather, the prosperous voyages they
have enjoyed, and glad to find themselves at
length safely anchored 'in the haven where
they fain would be ! '

Such men and women have little idea of,
and even less sympathy for, those to whom it
has not been given to navigate their frail craft
so prosperously across the sea of Life.

It is so easy, for those to the manner born,
to be rich and prosperous and cheerful ; to
have troops of friends, to gather smiling faces
about them, to receive a tenfold interest on
kind words, cheery looks, or generous deeds,
if only they start fair, the favourites of Fortune
! But, to founder early in life on hidden
breakers, as by a miracle to recover your
mastery of compass and rudder, and steer your
way, by sheer force of desperate will across the
troubled waters ; to guide the helm, and weather
the storm, and never lose sight of the course,
these be things difficult to accomplish in com-nepos

FROM AFAR, 341

nation with casual 'backs and nods and
wreathed smiles,' with pretty simulated sympathies
for passing, frivolous disappointments.

For when a man's teeth are set in effort 
his face hardened to endeavour, all the cordage
of his heart creaks and strains, as he concentrates
his energies in that supreme struggle,
wherein he must either sink or swim !

Happy those men, and still happier those
women, who, having reached the debateable
land of middle life, can, notwithstanding past
effort, and past failure, courageously face the
future, in full assurance of a faithful hand to
clasp their own, of faithful smiles commemorative
of a time not all failure, of a faithful heart,
which, having weathered the storms of life in
common effort, brings an assured fidelity, a
tender memory, and a contented acceptance of
all things past and to come, wherewith to
cheer the march downhill, which must begin
now that the toiled-for summit has been
reached !

To Graham, his chance encounter with the
woman to whom he owed all the desolation of
his life, seemed significant. It told him that,
for him, the dream of happiness was vain ; it
told him of the years that were past, and it

342 A UT Caesar A UT NIHIL.

showed him the years yet to come, whilst it
convinced him that acquiescence in the Inevitable
was all now left to him.

How, with the taint of this woman's presence
still upon him, with the picture of her degradation
present to his mind, with the memory of
her words, her looks, her dress, her language,
painfully clear, could he go into Hero's pure
presence, and speak peace when there was no
peace, and feign contentment, whilst sickening
with despair ?

No ! Hero was probably, only as other
women. In her daily life, with her music, her
songs, her family, her duties, she had forgotten
him ; or, if she remembered him, it was only in
such a way as a gentle woman might remember
a once dear friend  with a tender melancholy, a
soft, not altogether unpleasing regret, that had
nothing of the passionate extremes of violent
grief or abiding anguish.

And yet, so little was there of the morbid
in Graham's character, that, two hours after the
receipt of the banker's packet, enclosing the
letter ignorantly written by Bianca in the
prison hospital, and directed by the faithful
friseur together with an official attestation of
the death of ' Amelia Graham, gee de 48 ans,

NEWS FROM AFAR. 343

'par suite de I' explosion du 13 7??, accelerate par
Vetat du sang de ladite defence,' he was on his
way to London and to Hero, in whose hands
the sortie of his life now lay, determined ' to
put it to a touch, To win or lose it all ! '

344 AUT Caesar AUT NIHIL.

CHAPTER Lisa

HURRIED JOURNEY.

The Princess Paul Karishkin aud the Countess
Helena Perowska shared between them the
anxiety and responsibility of Bianca's condition.

Brought, in a state bordering on insensibility,
by the young doctor, to the first-named lady,
Bianca, had by his orders, been at once laid in a
well-warmed bed, and left to take that repose
which exhausted Nature imperatively exacted.
Both ladies were fully instructed of what had
taken place, and both were ful of sympathy for
the desolate girl whose romance had terminated
in so awful a tragedy.

But to several days of stupor, succeeded a
state of alarming cerebral excitement, which
called forth the doctor's most serious previsions.
When, after hoping against hope, that
the young and vigorous nature of his patient
might help her to throw ofi* the consequences

A HURRIED JOURNEY. 345

of prolonged mental strain, and to surmount
the anguish of her loss, he was obliged to
confess to himself that there was no longer
ground for any such cheering anticipations, it
suddenly dawned upon all concerned, that the
delay in communicating with her friends might
seem to them culpably like negligence.

Yet, how remedy the mistake ? Bianca,
always tenacious of any direct communication
with her mother, had been absolutely silent as
to her address. Eussian servants, even if they
had been entrusted with her letters, would not
be able to read the direction, and Julie, the
only person in any way instructed as to Bianca's
home surroundings, could not be communicated
with.

To these gentle ladies there was something
very repugnant in the idea of examining Bianca's
correspondence, and it was only in compliance
with the doctor's positive commands, that they
at last took the step of searching for her letters
and communicating with her mother. All this
caused considerable delay ; and, although Hero
was growing anxious, a longer time than usual
having elapsed since she last heard from her
child, yet the news came upon her with all the
severity of an unexpected shock.

346 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Both ladies begged Hero would not think
of setting out on so long and inclement a
journey at that season of the year, since the
doctor assured them she would not be allowed
to see his patient, to whom, in her present
state, any sudden surprise might prove fatal.
They added that they would write every day,
and they bade her be of good cheer, and hope
for the best, since Bianca's youth and sound
constitution were decidedly in her favour.

Thus Graham found Hero utterly unable to
listen to his story or to give him the warm
sympathy he so earnestly desired. She was
insensible to ' everything but her child's condition
; and whilst on the one hand, everyone
opposed her setting out on a solitary journey,
pity for the anguish which the separation cost
her, prevailed.

Although she would not have confessed so
much (even to herself), in the background of
Hero's mind there was an ever-present dread.
What if she should persist in her secret resolution,
and arrive in St. Petersburg, only to find
herself childless ? How support such a blow
amongst strangers ? How face the horror of
such possible desolation ?

It was therefore with gratitude that she

A HURRIED JOURNEY. 347

eagerly accepted Graham's offer to accompany
her. There were formalities to be attended to,
connected with that official communication,
which would take him to the City of Snow, and
he intended to start at once. ' Only one thing
need delay us for a few hours,' he said
gravely. ' I have spoken to your father and to
Fitz about it, and they agree with me ; this
matter regulated, we can leave directly,' and he
laid the special license they had procured, upon
the table beside her.

Is this necessary ? ' Hero asked.

I think it is. You would not like to shock
the prejudices of these noble ladies, or to injure
Bianca by seeming regardless of those " proprieties
" to which foreigners attach so much
importance. I know both ladies, and know
how sweet and cordial will be the welcome
that awaits you. Your position will be all the
easier, through the fact of my being an old
and familiar acquaintance of theirs, and they
will take it, most probably, for granted that we
have been married ever since I left St. Petersburg
a year ago ; nor shall anything in my
conduct lead them to think otherwise. I know
that your whole soul is set on Bianca, and I
am content to stand aside, and wait until your

348 A UT C.-ESAR A UT NIHIL.

own kind heart impels you to recognise my
claims. Had this not happened, I would have
waited (though at our age and under the
circumstances, such waiting would, I think, have
been an act of useless folly) for a right to
protect and help you until you felt disposed
voluntarily to grant me the privileges I
sought. But, as it is, I know I owe your
acquiescence to circumstances alone, and I
should be a brute if I took advantage of your
misfortunes, to thrust myself or my presence
needlessly upon you But I think. Hero, that
you know you can trust me. I go with you to
help and comfort you, to make your position at
once strong and independent  as your brother
might ; but I will not intrude upon your grief
or claim a single thought for myself until your
anxieties are at an end.'

Hero, who felt that he had divined the
secret fear which alone had caused her to
hesitate, before braving her father's and Sitz's
opposition to and disapproval of her solitary
journey, laid a grateful hand in his. ' Let it
be so,' she said ; ' as early as possible, that we
may be the sooner able to start.'

Fitz accompanied them on this strange bridal
trip the first stage of the journey. He kissed

A HURRIED JOURNEY. 349

Hero's pale cheek, and shook hands heartily
with Graham, when he left the train an hour's
journey from town ; then, coming back to the
carriage window, he whispered in Hero's ear :
Be of good cheer, cousin. Give her my love.
Bring her back to us  well, if possible, if not,
anyhow  bring her back ! ' Fitz also would
not admit the possibility of loss, and Hero
blessed him for his strong and hopeful words.

Whosoever has accomplished a journey of
the kind, will realise Hero's thoughts as the
train whirled her league after league across
Europe, with nothing to relieve the monotony
of an anxiety, that was only not despair, because
she persisted in hoping against hope. As
Graham sat opposite to this sad and silent
woman  whom he had loved faithfully, if hopelessly,
for so many dreary years  and noted the
lines that Care had drawn in her fair face, his
thoughts were all for her and not at all for
himself. If he could soothe, support, and
comfort her, that was all he desired ; no single
selfish wish came between her and the child
in whose fate she was so completely absorbed,
to whose bedside she was hurrying with such
frantic haste. Once in St. Petersburg;, she
would take up her position by Bianca's pillow,

350 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

and devote herself to her convalescence ; or, if
not  an alternative which to himself Graham
was obliged to admit  why, who could show so
much tenderness for her grief, respect her
mourning so much, or be so patient with her
despair, as he who had served long years for
her, and would serve as long again without a
murmur if needs must.

But, as by a miracle, Bianca was destined
to recover. With the first days of early summer
Hero and her child bade farewell to their kindly
host and hostess, Graham paid his hotel bill,
and the trio set forth on the first, slow stages of
their homeward journey.

Some hours of cheerfulness had not been
wanting, to cement the friendship which both
the Princess Paul and the Countess Perowsky
felt for Hero.

They had been delighted to find in Bianca's
mother the wife of their old friend Mr. Graham.
From them Hero chiefly learned the story of her
child's disastrous love.

Bianca's lips were sealed.

One visit she paid, and only one, before
leaving St. Petersburg. Her heart bled for
Julie de Kerezoff. She found her sad, and yet
utterly resigned. ' My name has never trans

HURRIED JOURNEY. 351

spired,' she said ; ' the Government is always
merciful in such cases, glad to hide the names
of persons, whose rank might seem to make
them important enemies of the State. My
children will never know that Katinka Chakofi'
the name she had adopted) 'was their mother.'

352 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

LENVOL

Hero one day remarked to Graham that, the
world, having so little patience with elderly
lovers, it was fortunate that their friends had
only made their acquaintance as Darby and
Joan. And Graham, whose face was radiant
with happiness, kissed his comely spouse upon
her fair cheek, and said a heartfelt word of
honest pride and happiness, such as it warms a
woman's soul, whatever her age may be, to
hear.

In truth, although happiness had come to
them late in life, it had come to them very
completely.

Mr. Owen's American adventures had
scotched, if not killed, the passion for speculation
in him ; and his own and his daughter's
easy circumstances, afforded no excuse for the
insane risks of earlier days. If he gambled a
little on the sly, his stockbroker was a prudent
man, and the old gentleman might have

DENVOL 353

lost the same amount at cards, without deriving
anything like equally pleasurable excitement in
the venture !

Graham's long years of industry (an industry
that had been the means of keeping
him from despair) enabled him to ask his
friends to a pleasant house, and to enjoy life
after the fashion that suited him best. Always
affectionately disposed towards Bianca, her
illness, her courage, the fact (which an
accident had revealed) that hers was the hand
which had conveyed to him the blessed news of
his freedom, all these things, combined with
the chivalrous feeling of a good man for a
young and lovely girl, added tenderness and
gratitude to his affection for her. Between
father and mother the girl was fairly spoiled.

For Bianca had come out of her illness
another person.

Courage and determination would always
be hers ; but her rebellions were, for ever, at
an end. Although she abstained from judging
any of her former associates, and gave them
full credit for pure motives and good intentions,
she had come too near Crime not to feel
the horror of the contact. Mellin's name never
passed her lips, nor did her mother ever allude

VOL. III. A A

354 eut Caesar AUT NIHIL.

to that episode which had nearly robbed her of
her child.

Fitz, whose faith in her had been unwavering,
who had pleaded for her when excuses had
failed, was deeply touched on meeting the new
Bianca.

In the grave, slender, silent young woman
whose very smile was serious, and who never
laughed, it was difficult to recognise the saucy,
rebellious, impetuous girl of other days. In
her new character he scarcely dared to approach
her, and yet not a day passed but that in one
way or another he showed how much, and
how affectionately, she was in his thoughts.

More than once he spoke to Hero and
Graham of his hopes and fears ; but their advice
was still, that he should wait.

Bianca seemed as though she were expecting
some news, some change ; so much was to
be read in the expression of her eyes, in the
inquiry of her attitude, in a constantly unsatisfied
air of interrogation, for which not
even her mother could account.

The explanation came one day with the
news that Julie de Kerezoff, under her feigned
name of Katinka Chaff, had died in prison,
in savings birth to a dead son.

LENVOl. 355

She will be better now,' said Hero. ' She
could accept no happiness, no joy, no pleasure
with her old friend's fate upon her mind, a
prisoner, whose life was still in the balance.'

In her long talks, and longer silences, with
Fitz, Bianca had learned the blessing of a
delicate sympathy. There were things she
would have hesitated to shock her mother with,
which honesty obliged her to confess to him.

Thus, one day when sitting in the sunshine,
her hands lying loosely and listlessly on her lap,
Fitz struck with their extreme beauty, took one
of hers in his, and looking at it, said : ' I
always knew your hands were beautiful, Bianca,
but I never noticed before the perfect purity
and innocence of their expression.'

And yet,' she said, quickly withdrawing
her slender fingers from his clasp, and holding
them up, so that the sun shone through their
pink transparence, ' it is only by the merest
chance that they were saved from blood-guiltiness
! '

He guessed what she meant.

You would still have been innocent in my
eyes,' he said.

But not in my own  as I now see things,'
Bianca answered with a shudder ; ' that was a

356 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

terrible time, Fitz. I was mad. But, thank
God,' Holding her hand towards him, ' they are
not blood-stained ! ' And she burst into tears.

Fitz stooped and kissed her little white
fingers.

Love taught  her to forget. Within six
months of Julie's death, Fitz had won her
consent to be his wife. Not even the sad story
which she insisted on telling him, with all its
mistakes and failure, could affect his determination.
' I always loved you and always believed
in you,' he said, ' even when you treated me
worst, even when I heard nothing of, or from
you. And I only love you the better for all
you have suffered, and for your candour in
confessing the magnitude of your mistake.'

Head this,' said Bianca to Hero, a month
after her engagement ; it was a letter from the
Princess Paul Karishkin.

*Khotineif>

'Martellina mia I am rejoiced to hear of
your betrothal to your cousin. I always fall in
love with all Englishmen  in novels  they
dress so well ! My husband joins his congratulations
to mine, and will perhaps add a postscript
to this ; the children send their love.
More substantial gifts follow. I have very

LENVOL 357

little news in the shape of gossip to give you.
Our dear friend Helena Perowska has retired
for life into the Borogoditzky convent of Our
Lady of Kasan, and I have taken my last leave of
this lovely and ill-fated woman. She is pursued
by endless self-reproach, and I can only pray
that in Eeligion she may find that consolation
which the World denies. Esther Eodostamos
you may perhaps see in England ; but her fate,
her fortune, her beauty, and her aspirations are
all too superlative to be included within the
limits of a letter. Tell your mother (who confessed
to me that the celebrated 'portrait en pied
had not been without its influence, as regards
the rigours she made that poor Mr. Graham
suffer), that the lord has been refused once
more by the lady. His proposals come, like
Christmas, an annual solemnity, and are as
invariable as the fixed festivals. However, he
got "No" for his answer. We live here cm
jour le jour. No one speaks politics ; there is
no Court and our Emperor is still uncrowned.
Trade is at a stand-still ; the shopkeepers are
in despair ; no one knows where the supreme
Head is pillowed from night to night, and no
one knows what may come next. Do not forget
Russia, nor that you have many friends here.

358 AUT CSAR AUT NIHIL.

Keep me in your kiuclly remembrance as I
cherish you, and ever believe me, Bianca mia

la tua

Pauline.'

Postscript,

My wife has already sent my congratulations
on your approaching marriage, so I
cannot grumble at the small space left for
working-day topics. I know you love our unhappy
country ; and therefore, what little I
venture to say on the subject next my heart, I
flatter myself will interest you also. Our
finance  that pulse of a Nation's political prosperity
 is in the most deplorable condition ;
the paper rouble not being worth half its
nominal value ; and, in site of the official
notice printed on the back, rouble notes cannot
be exchanged at the Bank, either for silver or
gold. We can only live in hopes, that the time
will at length come, when the last blunder, if
not the last crime, will have been perpetrated.
A new departure will, then, be more in accordance
with the spirit of those great political and
social reforms imagined, and inaugurated by
Alexander II., and Russia will be permitted to

VENVOL 359

develop her vast resources, and to resume the
position she is entitled to occupy amongst the
Nations.

I am very unhappy about my father. We
do not know, at present, where he has thought
well to take up his residence. The blindness,
folly, and selfishness of the Nihilists, in not
seeing that their line of action retards the very
reforms for which they aver they clamour, and
which they pretend to make their Watch-word,
is incredible ! They, far more than the retrograde
sympathies of the Conservative party,
ruin the Nation's best hopes, whilst they impede
all Progress. The quiet dignity of the true
reformers, and enlightened Liberals, under ill-fortune,
is admirable ; they wait, and hope.
No such easy matter, for,  alas !  the army is
disaffected, the navy tainted, the police
suspect,' Society honeycombed, security undermined,
official life disorganised, the Court
dispersed, loyalty silenced, commerce at a
stand-still, and Chaos  imminent !

Your faithful and devoted

P. P. Karishkin.'

Spottiwoode Sf Co., Printers, New-street Square, London.

t-;

UD

M

m

m

S

i

s

iliirP#'W

r

%&

3 0112 041412187
