CONTENTS OF VOL. T.

CLOTHO; OR SPINNING THE THUEAI).

CHAP.

I. " We have been so Happy"

II. Fay

in. A Superior Person

IV. All She could Eemember .

V. Without the Wolf

VI, "Ah! Pity! the Lily is Withered

VII. Drifting Apart .

VIII. " Such Things were " .

IX. The Pace in the Church .

X. There is always the Skeleton

x[. The Beginning of Doubt

XII. " She cannot be Unworthy "

xiii. Shall She be less than Another?

XIV. Lifting the Curtain .

PAGE









I 12












CLOTHO; OR SPINNING THE THREAD,

VOL. r.

WE HAVE BEEN SO HAPPY."

"I'm afraid she will be a terrible bore," said the
lady, with a slight pettishness in the tone of a voice
that was naturally sweet.

How can she bore us, love ? She is only a
child, and you can do what you like with her," said
the gentleman.

My dear John, you have just admitted that she
is between thirteen and fourteen  a great deal more
than a child  a great overgrown girl, who will want
to be taken about in the carriage, and to come down
to the drawing-room, and who will be always in the
way. Had she been a child of Mildred's age, and a
playfellow for Mildred, I should not have objected
half so much."

I'm very sorry you object ; but I have no doubt
she will be a playfellow for Mildred all the same.

and that she will not mind spending a good deal of
her life in the schoolroom."

*' Evidently, John, you don't know what girls of
fourteen are. I do."

Naturally, Maud, since it is not so many years
since you yourself were that age."

The lady smiled, touched ever so slightly by
the suggestion of youth, which was gratifying to the
mother of a seven-year-old daughter.

The scene was a large old-fashioned drawing-room,
in an old-fashioned street in the very best
quarter of the town, bounded on the west by Park
Lane and on the east by Grosvenor Square. The
lady was sitting at her own particular table, in her
favourite window, in the summer gloaming ; the
gentleman was standing with his back to the velvet-draped
mantelpiece. The room was full of flowers
and prettiness of every kind, and offered unmistakable
evidence of artistic taste and large means in
its possessors.

The lady was young and fair, a tall slip of a
woman, who afforded a Court milliner the very best
possible scaffolding for expensive gowns. The gentleman

was middle-aged and stout, with strongly-marked
features and a resolute, straightforward
expression. The lady was the daughter of an Irish
peer ; the gentleman was a commoner, whose fortune
had been made in a great wholesale firm, which
had still its mammoth warehouses near St. Paul's
Churchyard, and its manufactory at Lyons, but with
which John Fausset had no longer any connection.
He had taken his capital out of the business, and
had cleansed himself from the stain of commercial
dealings before he married the Honourable Maud
Donfrey, third daughter of Lord Castle-cornell.

Miss Donfrey had given herself very willingly to
the commoner, albeit he was her senior by more than
twenty years, and, in her own deprecating description
of him, was quite out of her set. She liked him nota
little for his own sake, and for the power his strong
will exercised over her own weaker nature ; but she
liked him still better for the sake of wealth which
seemed unlimited.

She was nineteen at the time of her marriage,
and she had been married nine years. Those years
had brought the Honourable Mrs. Fausset only one

child, the seven-year-old daughter playing about the
room in the twilight ; and maternity had offered very
little hindrance to the lady's pleasures as a woman
of fashion. She had been indulged to the uttermost
by a fond and admiring husband ; and now for the
first time in his life John Fausset had occasion to ask
his wife a favour, which was not granted too readily.
It must be owned that the favour was not a small
one, involving nothing less than the adoption of an
orphan girl in whose fate Mr. Fausset was interested.

It is very dreadful," sighed Mrs. Fausset, as if
she were speaking of an earthquake. *ewe have
been so happy alone together  you and I and
Mildred."

*' Yes, dearest, when we have been alone, which,
you will admit, has not been very often."

*' 0, but visitors do not count. They come and
go. They don't belong to us. This dreadful girl
will be one of us ; or she will expect to be. I feel
as if the golden circle of home-life were going to be
broken."

Not broken, Maud, only expanded."

0, but you can't expand it by letting in a

stranger. Had the mother no people of her own ; no
surroundings whatever ; nobody but you who could
be appealed to for this wretched girl ?" inquired
Mrs. Fausset, fanning herself wearily, as she lolled
back in her low chair.

She wore a loose cream-coloured gown, of softest
silk and Indian embroidery, and there were diamond
stars trembling amongst her feathery golden hair.
The flowing garment in which she had dined alone
with her husband was to be changed presently for
white satin and old Mechlin lace, in which she was
to appear at three evening parties ; but in the meantime,
having for once in a way dined at home, she
considered her mode of life intensely domestic.

The seven-year-old daughter was roaming about
with her doll, sometimes in one drawing-room, sometimes
in another. There were three, opening into
each other, the innermost room half conservatory,
shadowy with palms and tropical ferns. Mildred
was enjoying herself in the quiet way of children
accustomed to play alone, looking at the pretty things
upon the various tables, peering in at the old china
figures in the cabinets  the ridiculous Chelsea

shepherd and shepherdess ; the Chelsea lady in hawking
costume, with a falcon upon her wrist ; the
absurd lambs, and more absurd foliage; and the
Bow and Battersea ladies and gentlemen, with their
blunt features and coarse complexions. Mildred was
quite happy, prowling about and looking at things
in silent wonder ; turning over the leaves of illustrated
books, and lifting the lids of gold and enamelled
boxes ; trying to find out the uses and meanings of
things. Sometimes she came back to the front
drawing-room, and seated herself on a stool at her
mother's feet, solemnly listening to the conversation,
following it much more earnestly, and comprehending
it much better, than either her father or mother
would have supposed possible.

To stop up after nine o'clock was an unwonted
joy for Mildred, who went to bed ordinarily at seven.
The privilege had been granted in honour of the
rare occasion  a tete-astute dinner in the height of
the London season.

Is there no one else who could take her ?"
repeated Mrs. Fausset impatiently, finding her husband
slow to answer.

There is really no one else upon whom the
poor child has any claim."

Cannot she remain at school ? You could pay
for her schooling, of course. I should not mind
that."

This was generous in a lady who had brought
her husband a nominal five thousand pounds, and
who spent his money as freely as if it had been
water.

'' She cannot remain at school. She is a kind
of girl who cannot get on at school. She needs
home influences."

You mean that she is a horrid rebellious girl
who has been expelled from a school, and whom I
am to take because nobody else will have her."

*' You are unjust and ungenerous, Maud. The
girl has not been expelled. She is a girl of peculiar
temper, and very strong feelings, and she is unhappy
amidst the icy formalities of an unexceptionable
school. Perhaps had she been sent to some
struggling schoolmistress in a small way of business
she might have been happier. At any rate, she is
not happy, and as her people were friends of mine in

the past I should like to make her girlhood happy,
and to see her well married, if I can."

But are there not plenty of other people in the
world who would do all you want if you paid them.
I'm sure I should not grudge the money."

*' It is not a question of money. The girl has
money of her own. She is an heiress."

Then she is a ward in Chancery, I suppose ?"

No, she is my ward. I am her sole trustee."

And you really want to have her here in our
own house, and at The Hook, too, I suppose. Always
with us wherever we go."

That is what I want  until she marries. She
will be twenty in five years, and in all probability
she will marry before she is twenty. It is nota
life-long sacrifice that I am asking from you,
Maud ; and, remember, it is the first favour I have
ever asked you."

*let the little girl come, mother," pleaded
Mildred, clambering on to her mother's knee.

She had been sitting with her head bent over
her doll, and her hair falling forward over her face
like golden rain, for the last ten minutes. Mrs.

Fausset had no suspicion that the child had been
listening, and this sudden appeal was startling to
the last degree. 

Wisdom has spoken from my darling's rosy
lips," said Fausset, coming over to the window and
stooping to kiss his child.

'* My dear John, you must know that your wish
is a law to me," replied his wife, submitting all at
once to the inevitable. *' If you are really bent
upon having your ward here she must come."

"I am really bent upon it."

Then let her come as soon as you like."

I will bring her tomorrow."

And I shall have some one to play with," said
Mildred, in her baby voice ; "I shall give her my
second best doll."

*' Not your best, Mildred ?" asked the father,
smiling at her.

Mildred reflected for a few moments.

'i'll wait and see what she is like," she said,
'' and if she is very nice I will give her quite my
best doll. The one you brought me from Paris,
father. The one that walks and talk."

Maud Fausset sighed, and looked at the little
watch dangling on her chatelaine.

A quarter to ten ! How awfully late for Mildred
to be up ! And it is time I dressed. I hope
you are coming with me, John. King the bell,
please. Come, Mildred."

The child kissed her father with a hearty, clinging
kiss which meant a world of love, and then she
picked up her doll  not the walking-talking machine
from Paris, but a friendly, old-fashioned wax and
bran personage  and trotted out of the room, hanging
on to her mother's gown.

'* How sweet she is !" muttered the father, looking
after her fondly; ' and what a happy home it
has been ! I hope the coming of that other one
won't make any difference."

FAY.

Mrs. Fausset's three parties, the last of which was
a very smart ball, kept her away from home until
the summer sun was rising above Grosvenor Square,
and the cocks were crowing in the mews behind
Upper Parchment Street. Having been so late in
the morning, Mrs. Fausset ignored breakfast, and
only made her appearance in time for lunch, when
her husband came in from his ride. He had escorted
her to the first of her parties, and had left her on
the way to the second, to go and finish his evening
in the House, which he found much more interesting
than society.

They met at luncheon, and talked of their previous
night's experiences, and of indifferent matters.
Not a word about the expected presence which was
so soon to disturb their domestic calm. Mr. Fausset
affected cheerfulness, yet was evidently out of spirits.

He looked round the picturesque old oak diningroom
wistfully; he strolled into the inner room,
with its dwarf bookcases, pictures, and bronzes, its
cosy corner behind a sixfold Indian screen, a cens
screen, bought at Christie's out of a famous
collection. He surveyed this temple of domestic
peace, and wondered within himself whether it
would be quite as peaceful when a new presence was
among them.

' Surely a girl of fourteen can make no difference,"
he argued, "even if she has a peculiar temper.
If she is inclined to be troublesome, she shall be
made to keep herself to herself. Maud shall not be
rendered unhappy by her."

He went out soon after lunch, and came home
again at afternoon tea-time in a hansom, with a girl ina
black frock. A four-wheeler followed, with a large
trunk and two smaller boxes. The splendid creatures
in knee-breeches and powder who opened the door
had been ordered to deny their mistress to everybody,
so Mrs. Fausset was taking tea alone in her
morning-room.

The morning-room occupied the whole front of

the second floor, a beautiful room with three windows,
the centre a large bow jutting out over empty
space. This bow-window had been added when Mr.
Fausset married, on a suggestion from his fiancee.
It spoiled the external appearance of the house, but
it made the room delightful. For furniture and
decoration there was everything pretty, novel, eccentric,
and expensive that Maud Fausset had ever been
able to think of. She had only stopped her caprices
and her purchases when the room would not hold
another thing of beauty. There was a confusion of
form and colour, but the general effect was charming
; and Mrs. Fausset, in a loose white muslin
gown, suited the room, just as the room suited Mrs.
Fausset.

She was sitting in the bow-window, in a semicircle
of flowers and amidst the noises of the West
End world, waiting for her husband and the newcomer,
nervous and apprehensive. The scarlet
Japanese tea-table stood untouched, the water bubbling
in the quaint little bronze tea-kettle, swinging
between a pair of rampant dragons.

She started as the door opened, but kept her

seat. She did not want to spoil the new-comer by
an undue appearance of interest.

John Fausset came into the room, leading a pale
girl dressed in black. She was tall for her age, and
very thin, and her small face had a pinched look,
which made the great black eyes look larger. She
was a peculiar-looking girl, with an olive tint in her
complexion which hinted at a lineage not altogether
English. She was badly dressed in the best materials,
and had a look of never having been much
cared for since she was born.

This is Fay," said Mr. Fausset, trying to be
cheerful.

His wife held out her hand, which the girl took
coldly, but not shyly. She had an air of being perfectly
self-possessed.

 [*' Her name is Fay, is it ? What a pretty name !
By the bye, you did not tell me her surname."

Did I not ? Hername is Fausset. She is a
distant relation of my family."

"I did not understand that last night," said
Mrs. Fausset, with puzzled air. ** You only talked
of a friend."

Was that so ? I should have said a family
connection. Yes, Fay and I are namesakes, and
kindred."

He patted the girl's shoulder caressingly, and
made her sit down by the little red table in front of
the tea-cups, and cakes, and buns. The buns reminded
him of his daughter.

*where is Mildred?"

She is at her music-lesson ; but she will be
here in a minute or two, no doubt," answered his
wife.

Poor little mite, to have to begin lessons so
soon; the chubby little fingers stuck down upon the
cold hard keys. The piano is so uninviting at seven
years old ; such a world of labour for such a small
effect. If she could turn a barrel-organ, with a
monkey on the top, I'm sure she would like music
ever so much better; and after a year or two of
grinding it would dawn upon her that there was
something wanting in that kind of music, and then
she would attack the piano of her own accord, and
its difficulties would not seem so hopelessly uninteresting.
Are you fond of lessons, Fay ?"

"I hate them," answered the girl, with vindictive
emphasis.

"And I suppose you hate books too ?" said Mrs.
Fausset, rather scornfully.

No, I love books."

She looked about the spacious room, curiously,
with admiring eyes. People who came from very
pretty rooms of their own were lost in admiration
at Mrs. Fausset's morning-room, with its heterogeneous
styles of art  here Louis Seize, there
Japanese ; Italian on one side, Indian on the other.
What a dazzling effect, then, it must needs have
upon this girl, who had spent the last five years of
her life amidst the barren surroundings of a suburban
school !

** What a pretty room ! " she exclaimed at last.

Don't you think my wife was made to live in
pretty rooms?" asked Fausset, touching Maud's
delicate hand as it moved among the tea-things.

She is very pretty herself," said Fay, bluntly.

"Yes, and all things about her should be pretty.
This thing, for instance," as Mildred came bounding
into the room, and clambered on her father's knee.

This is my daughter, Fay, and your playfellow, if
you know how to play."

I'm afraid I don't, for they always snubbed us
for anything like play," answered the stranger, "but
Mildred shall teach me, if she will."

She had learnt the child's name from Mr. Fausset
during the drive from Streatham Common to Upper
Parchment Street.

Mildred stretched out her little hand to the girl
in black with somewhat of a patronising air. She
had lived all her little life among bright colours
and beautiful objects, in a kind of butterfly world ;
and she concluded that this pale girl in sombre
raiment must needs be poor and unhappy. She
looked her prettiest, smiling down at the stranger
from her father's shoulder, where she hung fondly.
She looked like a cherub in a picture by Rubens,
red-lipped, with eyes of azure, and flaxen hair just
touched with gold, and a complexion of dazzling lily
and carnation-colour suffused with light.

"I mean to give you my very best doll," she
said.

You darling, how I shall adore you !" cried the

strange girl impulsively, rising from her seat at the
tea-table, and clasping Mildred in her arms.

That is as it should be," said Fausset, patting
Fay's shoulder affectionately. *' Let there be a bond
of love between you two."

"And will you play with me, and learn your
lessons with me, and sleep in my room ?" asked
Mildred coaxingly.

No, darling. Fay will have a room of her own,"
said Mrs. Fausset, replying to the last inquiry.
"It is much nicer for girls to have rooms to themselves."


**No, it isn't," answered Mildred, with a touch
of petulance that was pretty in so lovely a child. " I
want Fay to sleep with me. I want her to tell me
stories every night."

You have mother to tell you stories, Mildred,"
said Mrs. Fausset, already inclined to be
jealous.

Not very often. Mother goes to parties almost
every night."

*not at The Hook, love."

* 0, but at The Hook there's always company.

Why can't I have Fay to tell me stories
every night ?" urged the child persistently.

I don't see why they should not be together,
Maud," said Mr. Fausset, always prone to indulge
Mildred's lightest whim.

It is better that Fay should have a room of her
own, for a great many reasons," replied his wife,
with a look of displeasure.

Very well, Maud,'S0 be it," he answered, evidently
desiring to conciliate her. "And which
room is Fay to have ?"

I have given her Bell's room."

Mr. Fausset's countenance fell.

"Bell's room  a servant's room !"  he repeated
blankly.

"It is very inconvenient for Bell, of course,"
said Mrs. Fausset. " She will have to put up
with an extra bed in the housemaid's room ; and
as she has always been used to a room of her
own, she made herself rather disagreeable about
the change."

Mr. Fausset was silent, and seemed thoughtful.
Mildred had pulled Fay away from the table and led

her to a distant window, where a pair of Virginian
love-birds were twittering in their gilded cage, half
hidden amidst the bank of feathery white spirea and
yellow marguerites which filled the recess.

** I should like to see the room," said Fausset
presently, when his wife had put down her teacup.

My dear John, why should you trouble yourself
about such a detail ?"

I want to do my duty to the girl  if I can."

I think you might trust such a small matter tome,
or even to my housekeeper," Maud Fausset
answered with an offended air. " However, you are
quite at liberty to make a personal inspection. Bell
is very particular, and any room she occupied is sure
to be nice. But you can judge for yourself. The
room is on the same floor as Mildred's."

This last remark implied that to occupy any
apartment on that floor must be a privilege.

But not with the same aspect."

Isn't it ? No, I suppose not. The windows
look the other way," said Mrs. Fausset innocently.

She was not an overeducated person. She
adored Keats, Shelley, and Browning, and talked

about them learnedly in a way ; but she hardly
knew the points of the compass.

She sauntered out of the room, a picture of
languid elegance in her flowing muslin gown.
There were flowers on the landing, and a scarlet
Japanese screen to fence ofi' the stairs that went
downward, and a blue-and-gold Algerian curtain to
hide the upward flight. This second floor was Mrs.
Fausset's particular domain. Her bedroom and
bathroom and dressing-room were all on this floor.
Mr. Fausset lived there also, but seemed to be thereon
sufferance.

She pulled aside the Algerian curtain, and they
went up to the third story. The two front rooms
were Mildred's bedroom and schoolroom. The
bedroom-door was open, revealing an airy room with
two windows brightened by outside flower-boxes,
full of gaudy red geraniums and snow-white marguerites,
a gay-looking room, with a pale blue
paper and a blue-and-cream-colour carpet. A little
brass bed, with lace curtains, for Mildred  an iron
bed, without curtains, for Mildred's maid.

The house was like many old London houses,

more spacious than it looked outside. There were
four or five small rooms at the back occupied by
servants, and it was one of those rooms  a very small
room looking into a mews  which Mr. Fausset went
to inspect.

It was not a delightful room. There was an
outside wall at right-angles with the one window
which shut ofi" the glory of the westering sun.
There was a forest of chimney-pots by way of prospect.
There was not even a flower-box to redeem
the dinginess of the outlook. The furniture was
neat, and the room was spotlessly clean; but as
much might be said of a cell in Portland Prison.
A narrow iron bedstead, a couple of cane chairs, a
common mahogany chest of drawers in the window,
and on the chest of drawers a white toilet-cover and
a small mahogany looking-glass ; a deal washstand
and a zinc bath. These are not luxurious surroundings
; and Mr. Fausset's countenance did not express
approval.

*i'm sure it is quite as nice a room as she
would have at any boarding-school," said his wife
answering that disapproving look.

Perhaps ; but I want her to feel as if she were
not at school, but at home."

She can have a prettier room at The Hook, I
daresay, though we are short of bedrooms even there
if she is to go to The Hook with us."

Why, of course she is to go with us. She is
to live with us till she marries."

Mrs. Fausset sighed, and looked profoundly
melancholy.

I don't think we shall get her married very
easily," she said.

Why not?" asked her husband quickly, looking
at her anxiously as he spoke.

*' She is so remarkably plain."

** Did she strike you so ? I think her rather
pretty, or at least interesting. She has magnificent
eyes."

So has an owl in an ivy-bush," exclaimed
Mrs. Fausset petulantly. " Those great black eyes
in that small pale face are positively repulsive.
However, I don't want to depreciate her. She is
of your kith and kin, and you are interested in her ;

SO we must do the best we can. I only hope Mildred
will get on with her'*

This conversation took place upon the stairs.
Mr. Fausset was at the morning-room door by this
time. He opened it, and saw his daughter in the
sunlit window among the flowers, with her arm
round Fay's neck.

They have begun very well," he said.

Children are so capricious," answered his wife.

A SUPERIOR PERSON.

Mildred and her father's ward got on remarkably
well  perhaps a little too well to please Mrs.
Fausset, who had been jealous of the new-comer,
and resentful of her intrusion from the outset.
Mildred did not show herself capricious in her
treatment of her playfellow. The child had never
had a young companion before, and to her the
advent of Fay meant the beginning of a brighter
life. Until Fay came there had been no one but
mother ; and mother spent the greater part of her
life in visiting and receiving visits. Only the briefest
intervals between a ceaseless round of gaieties could
be afforded to Mildred. Her mother doated on her,
or thought she did ; but she had allowed herself to
be caught in the cogs of the great society wheel,
and she was obliged to go round with the wheel.
So far as brightly-furnished rooms and an expensive

morning governess, ever so much too clever for the
pupil's requirements, and costly toys and pretty
frocks and carriage-drives, could go, Mildred was a
child in an earthly paradise ; but there are some
children who yearn for something more than luxurious
surroundings and fine clothes, and Mildred
Fausset was one of those. She wanted a great
deal of love  she wanted love always ; not in brief
snatches, as her mother gave it  hurried caresses
given in the midst of dressing for a ball, hasty
kisses before stepping into her carriage to be whisked
off to a garden-party, or in all the pomp and splendour
of ostrich feathers, diamonds, and court-train
before the solemn function of a Drawing-room. Such
passing glimpses of love were not enough for Mildred.
She wanted warm affections interwoven with
the fabric of her life ; she wanted loving companionship
from morning till night; and this she had
from Fay. From the first moment of their clasping
hands the two girls had loved each other. Each
sorely in need of love, they had come together
naturally, and with all the force of free undisciplined
nature, meeting and mingling like two rivers.

John Fausset saw their affection, and was delighted.
That loving union between the girl and
the child seemed to solve all difficulties. Fay was
no longer a stranger. She was a part of the family,
merged in the golden circle of domestic love. Mrs.
Fausset looked on with jaundiced eye.

"If one could only believe it were genuine !" she
sighed.

Genuine ! which of them do you suppose is
pretending ? Not Mildred, surely ?"

'* Mildred ! No, indeed. She is truth itself."

Why do you suspect Fay of falsehood ?"

My dear John, I fear  I only say I fear  that
your protegee is sly. She has a quiet self-contained
air that I don't like in one so young."

I don't wonder she is self-contained. You do
so little to draw her out."

*' Her attachment to Mildred has an exaggerated
air  as if she wanted to curry favour with us by
pretending to be fond of our child," said Mrs.
Fausset, ignoring her husband's remark.

'why should she curry favour? She is not
here as a dependent  though she is made to wear

the look of one sometimes more than I like. I have
told you that her future is provided for ; and as for
pretending to be fond of Mildred, she is the last girl
to pretend affection. She would have been better
liked at school if she had been capable of pretending.
There is a wild, undisciplined nature under that self-contained
air you talk about."

There is a very bad temper, if that is what you
mean. Bell has complained to me more than once
on that subject."

I hope you have not set Bell in authority over
her," exclaimed Mr. Fausset hastily.

** There must be some one to maintain order
when Miss Colville is away."

That some one should be you or I, not Bell."

*bell is a conscientious person, and she would
make no improper use of authority."

She is a very disagreeable person. That is all
I know about her," retorted Mr. Fausset, as he left
the room.

He was dissatisfied with Fay's position in the
house, yet hardly knew how to complain or what
alteration to suggest. There were no positive wrongs

to resent. Fay shared Mildred's studies and amusements;
they had their meals together, and took
their airings together.

When Mildred went down to the morning-room
or the drawing-room Fay generally went with her 
generally, not always. There were times when Bell
looked in at the schoolroom-door and beckoned
Mildred. " Mamma wants you alone," she would
whisper on the threshold ; and Mildred ran off to be
petted and paraded before some privileged visitor.

There were differences which Fay felt keenly,
and inwardly resented. She was allowed to sit aloof
when the drawing-room was full of fine ladies, upon
Mrs. Fausset's afternoon ; while Mildred was brought
into notice and talked about, her little graces exhibited
and expatiated upon, or her childish tastes
conciliated. Fay would sit looking at one of the art-books
piled upon a side-table, or turning over photographs
and prints in a portfolio. She never talked
unless spoken to, or did anything to put herself forward.


Sometimes an officious visitor would notice her.

What a clever-looking girl ! Who is she ?**

asked a prosperous dowager, whose own daughters
were all planted out in life, happy wives and mothers,
and who could afford to interest herself in stray
members of the human race.

She is a ward of my husband's. Miss Fausset."

*' Indeed ! A cousin, I suppose ?"

Hardly so near as that. A distant connection."


Mrs. Fausset's tone expressed a wish not to be
bored by praise of the clever-looking girl. People
soon perceived that Miss Fausset was to be taken
no more notice of than a piece of furniture. She
was there for some reason known to Mr. and Mrs.
Fausset, but she was not there because she was
wanted except by Mildred. Everybody could see
that Mildred wanted her. Mildred would run to her
as she sat apart, and clamber on her knee, and hang
upon her, and whisper and giggle with her, and
warm the statue into life. Mildred would carry her
tea and cakes, and make a loving fuss about her in
spite of all the world.

Bell was a power in the house in Upper Parchment

Street. She was that kind of old servant who
is as bad as a mother-in-law, or even worse ; for
your mother-in-law is a lady by breeding and education,
and is in sometime governed by reason, while
your trustworthy old servant is apt to be a creature
of impulse, influenced only by feeling. Bell was a
woman of strong feelings, devotedly attached to Mrs.
Fausset.

Twenty-seven years ago, when Maud Donfrey
was an infant, Martha Bell was the young wife of the
head-gardener at Castle-cornell. The gardener and
his wife lived at one of the lodges near the bank of
the Shannon, and were altogether superior people
for their class. Martha had been a lace-maker at
Limerick, and was fairly educated. Patrick Bell
was less refined, and had no ideas beyond his garden ;
but he was honest, sober, and thoroughly respectable.
He seldom read the newspapers, and had never heard
of Home Rule or the three Fas.

Their first child died within three weeks of its
birth, and a wet-nurse being wanted at the great
house for Lady Castle-cornell's seventh baby, Mrs.
Bell was chosen as altogether the best person for

TOL. I. D

that confidential office. She went to live at the great
white house in the beautiful gardens near the river.
It was only a temporary separation, she told Patrick;
and Patrick took courage at the thought that his wife
would return to him as soon as Lady Castle-cornell's
daughter was weaned, while in the meantime he was
to enjoy the privilege of seeing her every Sunday
afternoon ; but somehow it happened that Martha
Bell never went back to the commonly-furnished
little rooms in the lodge, or to the coarse-handed
husband.

Martha Bell was a woman of strong feelings.
She grieved passionately for her dead baby, and she
took the stranger's child reluctantly to her aching
breast. But babies have a way of getting themselves
loved, and one baby will creep into the place
of another unawares. Before Mrs. Bell had been at
the great house three months she idolised her nursling.
By the time she had been there a year she
felt that life would be unbearable without her foster-child.
Fortunately for her, she seemed as necessary
to the child as the child was to her. Maud was
delicate, fragile, lovely, and evanescent of aspect.

Lady Castle-cornell had lost two out of her brood,
partly, she feared, from carelessness in the nursery.
Bell was devoted to her charge, and Bell was entreated
to remain for a year or two at least.

Bell consented to remain for a year ; she became
accustomed to the comforts and refinements of a
nobleman's house; she hated the lodge, and she
cared very little for her husband. It was a relief to
her when Patrick Bell sickened of his desolate home,
and took it into his head to emigrate to Canada,
where he had brothers and sisters settled already.
He and his wife parted in the friendliest spirit, with
some ideas of reunion years hence, when the Honourable
Maud should have outgrown the need of a
nurse ; but the husband died in Canada before the
wife had made up her mind to join him there.
Mrs. Bell lived at the great white house until Maud
Donfrey left Castle-cornell as the bride of John
Fausset. She went before her mistress to the house
in Upper Parchment Street, and was there when
the husband and wife arrived after their Continental
honeymoon. From that hour she remained in possession
at The Hook, Surrey, or at Upper Parchment

Street, or at any temporary abode by sea or lake.
Bell was always a power in Mrs. Fausset's life, ruling
over the other servants, dictating and fault-finding
in a quiet, respectful way, discovering the weak side
of everybody's character, and getting to the bottom
of everybody's history. The servants hated her, and
bowed down before her. Mrs. Fausset was fond of
her as a part of her own childhood, remembering
that great love which had watched through all her
infantine illnesses and delighted in all her childish
joys. Yet, even despite these fond associations,
there were times when Maud Fausset thought that
it would be a good thing if dear old Bell would
accept a liberal pension and go and live in some
rose and honeysuckle cottage among the summery
meadows by the Thames. Mrs. Fausset had only
seen that riverside region in summer, and she had
hardly realised the stern fact of winter in that
district. She never thought of rheumatism in
connection with one of those low white-walled cottages,
half - hidden under overhanging thatched
gables, and curtained with woodbine and passionflower,
rose and myrtle. Dear old Bell was forty-eight,

straight as a ramrod, very thin, with sharp
features, and eager gray eyes under bushy iron-gray
brows. She had thick iron-gray hair, and she never
wore a cap ; that was one of her privileges, and a
mark of demarcation between her and the other servants
 that and her afternoon gown of black silk or
satin.

She had no specific duties in the house, but had
something to say about everything. Mrs. Fausset's
French maid and Mildred's German maid were atone
in their detestation of Bell ; but both were eminently
civil to that authority.

From the hour of Fay's advent in Upper Parchment
Street, Bell had set her face against her. In
the first place, she had not been taken into Mr. and
Mrs. Fausset's confidence about the girl. She had
not been consulted or appealed to in any way ; and,
in the second place, she had been told that her bedroom
would be wanted for the new-comer, and that
she must henceforward share a room with one of the
housemaids, an indignity which this superior person
keenly felt.

Nor did Fay do anything to conciliate this domestic

power. Fay disliked Bell as heartily as Bell disliked
Fay. She refused all offers of service from the confidential
servant at the outset, and when Bell wanted
to help in unpacking her boxes  perhaps with some
idea of peering into those details of a girl's possessions
which in themselves constitute a history 
Fay declined her help curtly, and shut the door in
her face.

Bell had sounded her mistress, but had obtained
the scantiest information from that source. A distant
connection of Mr. Fausset's  his ward, an heiress.
Not one detail beyond this could Bell extract from
her mistress, who had never kept a secret from her.
Evidently Mrs. Fausset knew no more.

"I must say, ma'am, that for an heiress the
child has been sadly neglected," said Bell. "Her
under-linen was all at sixes and sevens till I took it
in hand ; and she came to this house with her left
boot worn down at heel. Her drawers are stuffed
with clothes, but many of them are out of repair ;
and she is such a wilful young lady that she will
hardly let me touch her things."

Bell had a habit of emphasising personal pronouns
that referred to herself.

You must do whatever you think proper about
her clothes, whether she likes it or not," answered
Mrs. Fausset, standing before her glass, and giving
final touches to the feathery golden hair which her
maid had arranged a few minutes before. ** If she
wants new things, you can buy them for her from
any of my tradespeople. Mr. Fausset says she is
to be looked after in every way. You had better
not go to Bond Street for her under-linen. Oxford
Street will do ; and you need not go to Stephanie for
her hats. She is such a very plain girl that it
would be absurd  cruel even  to dress her like
Mildred."

"Yes, indeed, it would, ma'am," assented Bell;
and then she pursued musingly : " If it was a good
school she was at, all I can say is that the wardrobe-woman
was a very queer person to send any pupil
away with her linen in such a neglected state. And
as for her education. Miss Colville says she is
shockingly backward. Miss Mildred knows more

geography and more grammar than that great overgrown
girl of fourteen."

Mrs. Fausset sighed.

Yes, Bell, she has evidently been neglected ;
but her education matters very little. It is her disposition
I am anxious about."

Ah, ma'am, and so am 7," sighed Bell.

When Bell had withdrawn, Maud Fausset sat in
front of her dressing-table in a reverie. She forgot
to put on her bonnet or to ring for her maid,
though she had been told the carriage was waiting,
and although she was due at a musical recital in
ten minutes. She sat there lost in thought, while
the horses jingled their bits impatiently in the street
below.

"Yes, there is a mystery," she said to herself;
** everybody sees it, even Bell."

ALL SHE COULD REMEMBER.

The London season was waning, and fewer carriages
rolled westward to the Park gates in the low sunlight
of late afternoon, and fewer riders trotted
eastward towards Grosvenor Square in the brighter
sunshine before luncheon. Town was gay still;
but the flood-tide of pleasure was over. The river of
London life was on the ebb, and people were beginning
to talk about grouse-moors in Scotland and
sulphur-springs in Germany.

Fay had lived in Upper Parchment Street nearly
two months. It seemed to her impatient spirit as if
she had lived there half a lifetime. The life would
have been hateful to her without Mildred's love.
That made amends for a good deal, but it could not
make amends for everything ; not for Bell's quiet
insolence, for instance.

Bell had replenished the alien's wardrobe.

Everything she had bought was of excellent quality,
and expensive after its kind ; but had a prize been
offered for bad taste, Bell would have taken it by
her selections of raiment on this occasion. Not
once did she allow Fay to have a voice in the
matter.

*' Mrs. Fausset deputed me to choose the things,
miss," she said, *' and I hope I know my duty."

I suppose I am very ugly," said Fay resignedly,
as she contemplated her small features in the
glass, overshadowed by a mushroom hat of coarse
brown straw, with a big brown bow, " but in this
hat I look positively hideous."

The hat was an excellent hat : that good coarse
Dunstable, which costs money and wears for ever,
the ribbon of the best quality ; but Hebe herself
would have looked plain under a hat shaped like a
bell-glass.

Fay's remark was recorded to Mrs. Fausset as
the indication of a discontented spirit.

Not being able to learn anything about Fay's
history from her mistress, Bell had tried to obtain a
little light from the girl herself, but without avail.

Questioned about her school, Fay had replied that
she hated her school, and didn't want to talk of it.
Questioned about her mother, she answered that her
mother's name was too sacred to be spoken about to
a stranger ; and on a subtle attempt to obtain information
about her father, the girl flushed crimson,
started up angrily from her chair, and told the
highly respectable Bell that she was not in the habit
of chattering to servants, or being questioned by
them.

After this it was war to the knife on Martha
Bell's part.

Miss Colville, the expensive morning governess,
was in sometime above prejudice, and was a person
of liberal mind, allowing for the fact that she had
lived all her life in other people's houses, looking on
at lives of fashionable frivolity in which she had no
share, and had been obliged to study Debrett's
annual volume as if it were her Bible, lest she
should commit herself in every other speech, so
intricate are the ramifications and intermarriages of
the Upper Ten Thousand. Miss Colville was not
unkind to Fay Fausset, and was conscientious in

her instructions ; but even she resented the mystery
of the girl's existence, and felt that her presence
blemished the respectability of the household. By
and by, when she should be seeking new employment,
and should have occasion to refer to Mrs.
Fausset, and to talk of her pupils in Upper Parchment
Street, there would be a difficulty in accounting
for Fay. A ward of Mr. Fausset's, a distant connection
: the whole thing sounded improbable. An
heiress who had come to the house with torn
embroidery upon her under-linen. A mystery  yes,
no doubt a mystery. And in Miss Colville's ultra-particular
phase of life no manner of mystery was
considered respectable ; except always those open
secrets in the very highest circles which society
agrees to ignore.

In spite of these drawbacks. Miss Colville was
fairly kind to her new charge. Fay was backward
in grammar and geography ; she was a dullard about
science; but she could chatter French, she knew a
little Italian, and in music she was highly gifted.
In this she resembled Mildred, who adored music,
and had taken her first lessons on the piano as a

water-fowl takes to a pond, joyously, as to her native
element. Fay was not advanced* in the technique of
the art, but she played and sang charmingly, for the
most part by ear ; and she used to play and sing to
Mildred in the summer twilight, till Bell came like
a prison-warder and insisted upon Mildred's going
to bed.

I nursed your mamma, miss," she would say,
*' and never allowed her to spoil her complexion
with late hours as Miss Fay is leading you onto
do."

At seven Mildred cared neither for health nor
complexion in the abstract, arid she loved Fay's
music and Fay's stories. Fay would tell her a fairy
tale, with musical accompaniments, improvised to
suit the story. This was Beauty's father groping
through the dark wood. Then came the swaying of
branches, the rustling of summer leaves, the long,
long sigh of the night wind, the hoot of the owl,
and the roll of distant thunder. Here came Fatima's
brothers to the rescue, with a triumphant marchand
the trampling of fiery steeds, careering up and
down the piano in presto arpeggios, bursting open

the gates of Bluebeard's Castle with a fortissimo
volley of chords. *

"J never heard any one make such a noise on a
piano," said Bell, bristling with indignation.

At eight o'clock Fay's day and evening were
done. Mildred vanished like the setting of the sun.
She would like to have had Fay to sit beside her bed
and tell her stories, and talk to her, till she dropped
to sleep ; but this happiness was sternly interdicted
by Bell.

** She would keep you awake half the night, Miss
Mildred, over - exciting you with her stories; and
what would your pa and the doctors say to nne V
exclaimed Bell.

The door of the bright, pretty bedchamber closed
upon Mildred, and Fay went back to the schoolroom
heavy of heart, to enjoy the privilege of sitting up
by herself till half-past nine, a privilege conceded to
superior years. In that dismal hour and a half the
girl had leisure to contemplate the solitude of her
friendless life. Take Mildred from her, and she
had no one  nothing. Mr. Fausset had meant to
be kind to her, perhaps. He had talked very kindly

to her in the long drive from Streatham. He had
promised her a home and the love of kindred ;
but evil influences had come in his way, and he had
given her  Bell. Perhaps she was of a jealous,
exacting disposition ; for, fondly as she loved Mildred,
she could not help comparing Mildred's lot
with her own : Mildred's bright, airy room and
flower-decked windows, looking over the tree-tops
in the Park, with her dingy cell opening upon a
forest of chimneys, and tainted with odours of stables
and kitchen ; Mildred's butterfly frocks of lace and
muslin, with the substantial ugliness of her own
attire; Mildred's manifold possessions  trinkets,
toys, books, games, pictures, and flowers  with her
empty dressing-table and unadorned walls.

At your age white frocks would be ridiculous,"
said Bell ; yet Fay saw other girls of her age flaunting
in white muslin all that summer through.

Sometimes the footman forgot to bring her lamp,
and she would sit in the schoolroom window, looking
down into the street, and watching the carriages
roll by in endless procession, with their lamps
flaming in the pale gray night, carrying their freight

to balls and parties, hurrying from pleasure to pleasure
on swift-revolving wheels. A melancholy hour
this for the longing heart of youth, even when the
schoolgirl's future participation in all these pleasures
is a certainty, or contingent only upon life ; but what
was it for this girl, who had all girlhood's yearnings
for pleasure and excitement, and who knew not if
that sparkling draught would ever touch her lips,
who felt herself an alien in this fine house, a stranger
at this fashionable end of the town ? It was no new
thing for her to sit alone in the twilight, a prey to
melancholy thoughts. Ever since she could remember,
her life had been solitary and loveless. The
home ties and tender associations which sweeten
other lives were unknown to her. She had never
known what love meant till she felt Mildred's warm
arms clinging round her neck, and Mildred's soft
cheek pressed against hers. Her life had been a
shifting scene peopled with strangers. Dim and
misty memories of childhood's earliest dawn conjured
up a cottage-garden on a windy hill; the sea
stretching far away in the distance, bright and blue,
but unattainable ; a patch of grass on one side, a

patch of potatoes on the other ; a hed of wallflowers
and stocks and yellow marigolds in front of the
parlour window ; a family of hens and an arrogant
cock strutting in the foreground ; and, standing out
sharply against the sky and the sea, a tall column
surmounted by a statue.

How she had longed to get nearer that vast
expanse of water, to find out what the sea was like !
From some points in the view it seemed so near,
almost as if she could touch it with her outstretched
hands; from other points it looked so far away.
She used to stand on a bank behind the cottage and
watch the white-sailed boats going out to sea, and
the steamers with their trailing smoke melting and
vanishing on the horizon.

"Where do they go?" she asked in her baby
French. " Where do they go ?"

Those were the first words she remembered
speaking, and nobody seemed ever to have answered
that eager question.

No one had cared for her in those days. She
was very sure of that, looking back upon that monotonous
childhood : a long series of empty hours in

VOL. I. E

a cottage garden, and with no companions except
the fowls, and no voice except that of the cow in the
meadow hard by : a cow which sent forth meaningless
bellows occasionally, and which she feared as if it
had been a lion.

There was a woman in a white cap whom she
called Nounou, and who seemed too busy to care
about anybody ; a woman who did all the housework,
and dug the potato-garden, and looked after the
fowls, and milked the cow and made butter, and rode
to market on a donkey once or twice a week : a woman
who was always in a hurry. There was a man who
came home from work at sundown, and there were
two boys in blouses and sabots, the youngest of
whom was too old to play with the nurse-child.
Long summer days in the chalky garden, long hours
of listless monotony in front of the wide bright sea,
had left a sense of oppression upon Fay's mind.
She did not know even the name of the town she
had seen far below the long ridge of chalky hill  a
town of tall white houses and domes and spires,
which had seemed a vast metropolis to the eyes of
infancy. She had but to shut her eyes in her evening

solitude, and she could conjure up the picture of
roofs and spires, and hill and sea, and the tall
column in its railed enclosure ; yet she knew no more
of town or hill than that they were on the other
side of the Channel.

She remembered lying in a narrow little bed, that
rocked desperately on a windy day, and looking out
at the white sea-foam dashing against a curious oval
window, like a giant's eye ; and then she remembered
her first wondering experience of railway travelling ;
a train flashing past green fields and hop-gardens
and houses ; and then darkness and the jolting of a
cab ; and after that being carried half-asleep into a
strange house, and waking to find herself in a strange
room, all very clean and neat, with a white-curtained
bed and white muslin window-curtains, and on looking
out of the window, behold, there was a patch of
common all bloom with yellow gorse.

She remembered dimly that she had travelled in
the charge of a little gray-haired man, who disappeared
after the journey. She found herself
now in the care cf an elderly lady, very prim and
strict, but not absolutely unkind ; who wore a silk


UNIVERSITY Of \um

gown, and a gold watch at her waistband, and who
talked in an unknown tongue. Everything here
was prettier than in Nounou's house, and there was
a better garden, a garden where there were more
flowers and no potatoes and there was the common
in the front of the garden, all hillocks and hollows,
where she was allowed to amuse herself in charge
of a ruddy-faced girl in a lavender cotton frock.

The old lady taught her the unknown tongue,
which she discovered in time to be English, and a
good deal besides  reading and writing, for instance,
and the rudiments of music, a little arithmetic,
grammar, and geography. She took kindly to music
and reading, and she liked to dabble with ink ; but
the other lessons were abhorrent, and she gave the
orderly old lady a good deal of trouble. There
was no love between them, only endurance on
either side ; and the long days on the common were
almost as desolate as the days on the chalky hill
above the sea.

At last there came a change. The dressmaker
sent home three new frocks, all uncompromisingly
ugly; the little old gray-haired man reappeared.

looking exactly as he had looked on board the steamer,
and a fly carried Fay and this guardian to the railway-station
on the common, and thence the train took
them to a great dark city, which the man told Fay
was London ; and then they went in a cab through
streets that seemed endless, till at last the streets
melted into a wide high-road, with trees on either
side, and the cab drove into a garden of shining
laurels and rhododendrons, and pulled up before a
classic portico. Fay had no memory of any house
so grand as this, although it was only the conventional
suburban villa of sixty or seventy years ago.

Just at first the change seemed delightful That
circular carriage-sweep, those shining rhododendrons
with great rose-coloured trusses of bloom, the drooping
gold of the laburnums, and the masses of perfumed
lilac, were beautiful in her eyes. Not so
beautiful the long, bare schoolroom and the willow-pattern
cups and saucers. Not so beautiful that
all-pervading atmosphere of restraint which made
school odious to Fay from the outset.

She stayed there for years  an eternity it seemed
to her, looking back upon its hopeless monotony.

Pleasure, Variety, excitement, she had none. Life
was an everlasting treadmill  up and down, down
and up, over and over again. The same dull
round of lessons ; a dismal uniformity of food ;
Sunday penance in the shape of two long services
in a badly ventilated church, and one long catechism
in a dreary schoolroom. No gaol can be much duller
than a well-regulated middle-class girls' school. Fay
could complain of no ill-treatment. She was well
fed, comfortably housed, warmly clad; but her life
was a burden to her.

She had a bad temper ; was irritable, impatient,
quick to take offence, and prone to fits of sullenness.
This was the opinion of the authorities; and her
faults increased as she grew older. She was not
absolutely rebellious towards the governesses ; but
there was always something amiss. She was idle
and listless at her studies, took no interest in anything
but her music-lessons, and was altogether an
unsatisfactory pupil. She had no lasting friendships
among her schoolfellows. She was capricious in her
likings, and was prone to fancy herself slighted or
ill-treated on the smallest provocation. The general

verdict condemned her as the most disagreeable girl
in the school. With the meaner souls among her
schoolfellows it was considered an affront that she
should have no antecedents worth talking about,
no relatives, no home, and no hampers or presents.
Even the servants neglected her as a young person
without surroundings, upon whom kindness would be
thrown away. The wardrobe-woman left her clothes
unmended, feeling that it mattered very little in what
order they were kept, since the girl never went home
for the holidays, and there was no mother or aunt to
investigate her trunks. She was condemned on
every hand as a discreditable mystery; and wien,
one unlucky afternoon, a sultry afternoon at the
beginning of a hot summer, she lost her temper in
the middle of a class-lesson, burst into a torrent of
angry speech, half defiance, half reproach, bounced
up from her seat, and rushed out of the schoolroom,
there were few to pity, and none to sympathise.

The proprietress of the school was elderly and
lymphatic. Miss Fausset had been stigmatised asa
troublesome pupil for a long time. There were
continual complaints about Miss Fausset's conduct,

worrying complaints, which spoilt Miss Constable's
dinner and interfered with her digestion. Really,
the only course open to that prosperous, over-fed
personage was to get rid of Miss Fausset. There
was an amiable family of three sisters  highly
connected young persons, whose father was in the
wine trade  waiting for vacancies in that old-established
seminary.

*' We will make a tabula rasa of a troublesome
past," said Miss Constable, who loved fine words.
Miss Fausset must go."

Thus it was that John Fausset had been suddenly
called upon to find a new home for his ward ;
and thus it was that Fay had been brought to Upper
Parchment Street.

No doubt Upper Parchment Street was better
than school ; but if it had not been for Mildred the
atmosphere on the edge of Hyde Park would have
been no more congenial than the atmosphere at
Streatham. Fay felt herself an intruder in that
splendid house, where, amidst that multitude of
pretty things, she could not put her finger upon one
gracious object that belonged to her  nothing that

was her " very own," as Mildred called it ; for she
had refused Mildred's doll and all other proffered
gifts, too proud to profit by a child's lavish generosity.
Mrs. Fausset made her no gifts, never talked
to her, rarely looked at her.

Fay knew that Mrs. Fausset disliked her. She
had divined as much from the first, and she knew
only too well that dislike had grown with experience.
She was allowed to go down to afternoon tea with
Mildred ; but had she been deaf and dumb her society
could not have been less cultivated by the mistress
of the house. Mrs. Fausset's feelings were patent to
the whole household, and were common talk in the
servants' hall. " No wonder," said the women ; the
men said "What a shame!" but footmen and housemaids
were at one in their treatment of Fay, which
was neglectful, and occasionally insolent. It would
hardly have been possible for them to behave well to
the intruder and keep in favour with Bell, who was
absolute  a superior power to butler or housekeeper,
a person with no stated office, and the supreme right
to interfere with everybody.

Bell sighed and shook her head whenever Miss

Fay was mentioned. She bridled with pent-up
indignation, as if the girl's existence were an injury
to her, Martha Bell. ''If I hadn't nursed Mrs.
Fausset when she was the loveliest infant that ever
drew breath, I shouldn't feel it so much," said Bell;
and then tears would spring to her eyes and choking
would convulse her throat, and the housekeeper would
shake her head and sympathise mysteriously.

At the end of July the establishment migrated
from Parchment Street to The Hook, Mr. Fausset's
riverside villa between Chertsey and Windsor. The
Hook was an expanse of meadow-land bordered with
willows, round which the river made a loop ; and on
this enchanted bit of ground  a spot loved by the
river-god  Mr. Fausset had built for himself the
most delightful embodiment of that much-abused
word villa ; a long, low, white house, with spacious
rooms, broad corridors, a double flight of marble
stairs, meeting on a landing lit by an Italian cupola
a villa surrounded with a classic colonnade, and
looking out upon peerless gardens sloping to the
willow-shadowed stream.

To Fay The Hook seemed like a vision of Paradise.

It was almost happiness even to her impatient
spirit to sit in a corner of those lovely grounds,
screened from the outer world by a dense wall of
Portugal laurels and arbutus, with the blue water
and the low, flat meadows of the further shore for
her only prospect.

Miss Colville was left behind in London. For
Fay and Mildred life was a perpetual holiday. Mrs.
Fausset was almost as much in society at The Hook
as she had been in London. Visitors came and
visitors went. She was never alone. There were
parties at Henley and Marlow, and Hargrave and
Goring. Two pairs of horses were kept hard at
work carrying Mr. and Mrs. Fausset about that
lovely riverside landscape to garden-parties and
dinners, picnics and regattas. John Fausset went
because his wife liked him to go, and because he
liked to see her happy and admired. The two girls
were left, for the most part, to their own devices,
under the supervision of Bell. They lived in the
gardens, with an occasional excursion into the unknown
world along the river. There was a trustworthy
under-gardener, who was a good oarsman.

and in his charge Mildred was allowed to go on the
water in a big wherry, which looked substantial
enough to have carried a select boarding-school.

This life by the Thames was the nearest approach
to absolute happiness which Fay had ever
known ; but for her there was to be no such thing
as unbroken bliss. In the midst of the sultry
August weather Mildred fell ill  a mild attack of
scarlet fever, which sounded less alarming to Mrs.
Fausset's ear, because the doctor spoke of it as scarlatina.
It was a very mild case, the local practitioner
told Mrs. Fausset; there was no occasion
to send for a London physician ; there was no occasion
for alarm. Mildred must keep her bed for a
fortnight, and must be isolated from the rest of the
house. Her own maid might nurse her if she had
had the complaint.

"How could she have caught the fever?" Mrs.
Fausset asked, with an injured air ; and there was a
grand investigation, but no scarlet fever to be heard
of nearer than Maidenhead.

People are so artful in hiding these things,"
said Mrs. Fausset ; and ten minutes afterwards she

begged the doctor not to mention Mildred's malady
to any of her neighbours.

We have such a host of engagements, and
crowds of visitors coming from London," she said.
People are so ridiculously nervous. Of course I
shall be extremely careful."

The doctor gave elaborate instructions about
isolation. Such measures being taken, Mrs. Fausset
might receive all fashionable London with safety.

*' And it is really such a mild case that you need
not put yourself about in any way," concluded the
doctor.

"Dear, sweet pet, we must do all we can to
amuse her," sighed the fond mother.

Mild as the case might be, the patient had to
suffer thirst and headache, a dry and swollen throat,
and restless nights. Her most eager desire was for
Fay's company, and as it was ascertained that Fay
had suffered from scarlet fever some years before ina
somewhat severe form, it was considered she
might safely assist in the sick-room.

She was there almost all day, and very often in
the night. She read to Mildred, and sang to her,

and played with her, and indulged every changing
fancy and caprice of sickness. Her love was inexhaustible,
indefatigable, for ever on the watch. If
Mildred woke from a feverish dream in the deep of
night, with a little agitated sob or cry, she found a
figure in a white dressing-gown bending over her,
and loving arms encircling her before she had time
to feel frightened. Fay slept in a little dressing-room
opening out of Mildred's large, airy bedroom,
so as to be near her darling. It was a mere closet,
with a truckle-bed brought down from the servants'
attic ; but it was good enough for Fay, whose only
thought was of the child who loved her as none
other had ever loved within her memory.

Mrs. Fausset was prettily anxious about her
child. She would come to Mildred's room in her
dressing-gown before her leisurely morning toilet, to
hear the last report. She would sit by the bed for
five minutes showering kisses on the pale cheeks,
and then she would go away to her long summer-day
of frivolous pleasures and society talk. Ripples
of laughter and snatches of speech came floating in
at the open windows ; and at Mildred's behest Fay

would stand at a window and report the proceedings
of that happy world outside.

They are going out in the boat. They are
going to have tea on the lawn. Your mamma is
walking up and down with Sir Horace Clavering.
Miss Granville and her sister are playing croquet;"
and so on, and so on, all day.

Mildred tossed about on her pretty white bed
impatiently.

"It is very horrid being shut up here on these
fine days," she said ; " or it would be horrid without
you, Fay. Mamma does not come to see me much."

Mamma came three or four times a day ; but her
visits were of the briefest. She would come into
the room beaming with smiles, looking like living
sunlight in her exquisite white gown, with its delicate
ribbons and cloudy lace  a fleecy white cloud
just touched with rose-colour, as if she were an
embodiment of the summer dawn. Sometimes she
brought Mildred a peach, or a bunch of hothouse
grapes, or an orchid, or a new picture-book ; but
beautiful as these offerings were, the child did not
always value them. She would push the plate of

grapes or the peach aside impatiently when her
mother was gone, or she would entreat Fay to eat
the dainty.

Mamma thinks I am greedy," she said ; " but
I ain't, ami, Fay?"

Those three weeks in the sick-room, those wakeful
nights and long, slow summer days, strengthened
the bond of love between the two girls. By the time
Mildred was convalescent they seemed to have loved
each other for years. Mildred could hardly remember
what her life was like before she had Fay for a
companion. Mrs. Fausset saw this growing affection
not without jealousy; but it was very convenient
that there should be some one in the house whose
companionship kept Mildred happy, and she even
went so far as to admit that Fay was ** useful."

I cannot be with the dear child half so much as
I should like to be," she said ; " visitors are so
exacting."

Fay had slept very little during Mildred's illness,
and now that the child was nearly well the elder girl
began to flag somewhat, and was tired early in the
evening, and glad to go to bed at the same hour as

the patient, who, under Bell's supervision, was made
to retire before eight. She was now well enough to
sit up all day, and to drive out in a pony-carriage in
the sunny hours after early dinner. Fay went with
her, of course. Pony and landscape would have been
wanting in charm without Fay's company. Both
girls had gone to bed one sultry evening in the faint
gray twilight. Fay was sleeping profoundly ; but
Mildred, after dozing a little, was lying half-awake,
with closed eyelids, in the flower-scented room.
The day had been exceptionally warm. The windows
were all open, and a door between Mildred's
bedroom and sitting-room had been left ajar.

Bell was in the sitting-room at her favourite task
of clearing up the scattered toys and books, and reducing
all things to mathematical precision. Meta,
Mildred's German maid, was sitting at needlework
near the window by the light of a shaded lamp.
The light shone in the twilight through the partly-open
door, and gave Mildred a sense of company.
They began to talk presently, and Mildred listened,
idly at first, and soothed by the sound of their
voices, but afterwards with keen curiosity.

VOL. I. P

I know I shouldn't like to be treated so," said
Meta.

** I don't see that she lias anything to complain
of," answered Bell. " She has a good home, and
everything provided for her. What more can she
want?"

*' I should want a good deal more if I was a
heiress."

An heiress," corrected Bell, who prided herself
on having cultivated her mind, and was somewhat
pedantic of speech. *' That's all nonsense, Meta.
She's no more an heiress than I am. Mr. Fausset
told my poor young mistress that just to throw dustin
her eyes. Heiress, indeed ! An heiress without
a relative in the world that she can speak of  an
heiress that has dropped from the moon. Don't
tell me:'

Nobody was telling Mrs. Bell anything ; but she
had a resentful air, as if combating the arguments
of an invisible adversary.

There was a silence during which Mildred nearly
fell asleep ; and then the voices began again.

It's impossible for sisters to be fonder of each
other than those two are," said Meta.

*' There's nothing strange in that, considering
they are sisters," answered Bell angrily.

0, but you've no right to say that, Mrs. Bell ;
it's going too far."

Haven't I a right to use my eyes and ears ?
Can't I see the family look in those two faces,
though Miss Mildred is pretty and Miss Fay is
plain ? Can't I hear the same tones in the two
voices, and haven't I seen his way of bringing that
girl into the house, and his guilty look before my
poor injured mistress ? Of course they're sisters.
Who could ever doubt it ? She doesn't, I know,
poor dear."

She, in this connection, meant Mrs. Fausset.

There was only one point in this speech which
the innocent child seized upon. She and Fay were
said to be sisters. 0, how she had longed for a
sister in the last year or so of her life, since she had
found out the meaning of solitude among fairest
surroundings ! How all the brightest things she
possessed had palled upon her for want of sisterly

companionship I How she had longed for a baby-sister
even, and had envied the children in households
where a new baby was an annual institution ! She
had wondered why her mother did not treat herself
to a new baby occasionally, as so many of her
mother's friends did. And now Fay had been given
to her, ever so much better than a baby, which
would have taken such a long time to grow up.
Mildred had never calculated how long, but she concluded
that it would be some months before the most
forward baby would be of a companionable age. Fay
had been given to her  a ready-made companion,
versed iu fairy tales, able to conjure up an enchanted
world out of the schoolroom piano, skilful with pencil
and colour-box, able to draw the faces and figures
and palaces and woodlands of that fairy world, able
to amuse and entertain her in a hundred ways. And
Fay was her sister after all. She dropped asleep ina
flutter of pleasurable excitement. She would ask
her mother all about it tomorrow; and in the
meantime she would say nothing to Fay. It was
fun to have a secret from Fay.

A batch of visitors left next day after lunch.

Mr. and Mrs. Fausset were to be alone for to.ty-
eight hours, a rare oasis of domesticity in the society
desert. Mildred had been promised that the first
day there was no company she was to have tea with
mamma in the tent on the lawn. She claimed the
fulfilment of that promise to-day.

It was a lovely day after the sultry, thundery
night. Mrs. Fausset reclined in her basket-chair in
the shelter of the tent. Fay and Mildred sat side
by side on a low bamboo bench on the grass : the
little girl, fairy-like, in her white muslin and flowing
flaxen hair, the big girl in olive coloured alpaca,
with dark hair clustering in short curls about the
small intelligent head. There could hardly have
been a stronger contrast than that between the two
girls ; and yet Bell was right. There was a family
look, an undefinable resemblance of contour and
expression which would have struck a very attentive
observer  something in the line of the delicate eyebrow,
something in the angle of the forehead.

'mamma," said Mildred suddenly, clambering
into her mother's lap, *' why mayn't I call Fay
sister?"

jars. Fausset started, and flushed crimson.

** What nonsense, child ! Why, because it would
be most ridiculous."

'but she is my sister," urged Mildred, looking
full into her mother's eyes, with tremendous resolution
in her own. *' I love her like a sister, and she
is my sister. Bell says so."

"Bell is an impertinent person," cried Mrs.
Fausset angrily. '' When did she say so ?"

*' Last night, when she thought I was asleep.
Mayn't I call Fay sister ?" persisted Mildred coaxingly.


'eon no account. I never heard anything so
shameful. To think that Bell should gossip ! An
old servant like Bell  my own old nurse. It is too
cruel!" cried Mrs. Fausset, forgetting herself in her
anger.

Fay stood tall and straight in the sunshine outside
the tent, wondering at the storm. She had an
instinctive apprehension that Mrs. Fausset's anger
was humiliating to her. She knew not why, but she
felt a sense of despair darker than any other evil

moment in her life ; and yet her evil moments had
been many.

You need not be afraid that I shall ask Mildred
to call me sister," she said. *'I love her dearly,
but I hate everybody else in this house."

*' You are a wicked, ungrateful girl," exclaimed
Mrs. Fausset, *sand I am very sorry I ever saw your
face."

Fay drew herself up, looked at the speaker indignantly
for a moment or so, and then walked quietly
away towards the house.

She passed the footman with the tea-tray as she
crossed the lawn, and a little further on she passed
John Fausset, who looked at her wonderingly.

Mildred burst out crying.

*show unkind you are, mamma!" she sobbed.
**If I mayn't call her my sister I shall always love
her like a sister  always, always, always,"

"What is the matter with my Mildred?" asked
Mr. Fausset, arriving at this moment.

'' Nothing. She has only been silly," his wife
answered pettishly.

'rand Fay  has she been silly, too?"

"Fay, jour protegee, has been most impertinent
to me. But I suppose that does not count."

*' It does count, for a good deal, if she has been
intentionally impertinent," answered Fausset gravely.

He looked back after Fay's vanishing figure with
a troubled expression. He had so sighed for peace.
He had hoped that the motherless girl might betaken
into his home and cared for and made happy,
without evil feeling upon any one's part ; and now
he could see by his wife's countenance that the hope
of union and peace was at an end.

"I don't know what you mean about intention,"
said his wife ; " I only know that the girl you are so
fond of has just said she hates everybody in this
house except Mildred. That sound rather like intentional
impertinence, I think."

Go and play, darling," said Fausset to his child ;
or run after Fay, and bring her back to tea."

"You show a vast amount of consideration for
your wife," said Mrs. Fausset.

"My dear Maud, I want you to show a little
more consideration for that girl, who has been so
devoted to Mildred all through her illness, and who

has one very strong claim upon a mother's heart 
she is motherless."

"I should think more of that claim, perhaps, if
I knew who her mother was, and what she was to
you," said Maud Fausset.

She was once near and dear to me. That is
all I can tell you, Maud; and it ought to be
enough."

'rit is more than enough," his wife answered,
trembling from head to foot, as she rose from her
low chair, and walked away from the tent.

John Fausset looked after her irresolutely, went a
few steps as if he meant to follow her, and then
turned back to the tent, just as Mildred reappeared
with Fay from another direction.

We three will have tea together," he exclaimed,
with demonstrative cheerfulness. ' Mamma is not
very well, Mildred ; she has gone back to the house.
You shall pour out my tea."

He seated himself in his wife's chair, and Mildred
sat on his knee, and put her arms round his neck,
and adored him with all her power of adoration.
Her household divinity had ever been the father.

Perhaps her baby mind had found out the weakness
of one parent and the strength of the other.

'fay shall pour out the tea," she said, with a
sense of self-sacrifice. " It will be a treat for Fay."

So Fay poured out the tea, and they all three satin
the tent, and were happy and merry  or seemingly
so, perhaps, as concerned John Fausset  for
one whole sunshiny hour, and for the first time Fay
felt that she was not an outsider. Yet there lurked
in her mind the memory of Mrs. Fausset's anger,
and that memory was bitter.

What am I, that almost everybody should be
rude to me ?" she asked herself, as she sat alone
that night after Mildred had gone to bed.

From the open windows below came the languid
sweetness of a nocturne by Chopin. Mrs. Fausset
was playing her husband to sleep after dinner. Sure
token of reconciliation between husband and wife.

The doctor came next morning. He appeared
upon alternate days now, and looked at Mildred in a
casual manner, after exhausting the local gossip
with Mrs. Fausset. This morning he and Mrs.

Fausset were particularly confidential before the
patient was sent for.

Admirable !" be exclaimed, when be bad looked
at her tongue and felt ber pulse ; "we are as nearly
well as we can be. All we want now is a little sea-air
to set us up for the winter. The great point,
my dear madam "  to Mrs. Fausset  " is to avoid
all risk of sequence, A fortnight at Brighton or Eastbourne
will restore our little friend to perfect
health."

There were no difficulties in the way of such
people as the Faussets, no question of ways and
means. Bell was sent for, and despatched to Eastbourne
by an afternoon train. She was to take
lodgings in a perfect position, and of impeccable
repute as to sanitation. Mildred was to follow next
day, under convoy of Meta and the under-butler, a
responsible person of thirty-five.

*' Fay must go, too," exclaimed Mildred ; whereupon
followed a tragic scene.

Fay was not to go to Eastbourne. No reasons
were assigned for the decision. Mildred was to ride
a donkey ; she was to have a pony-carriage at her

disposition ; but she was to be without Fay for a
whole fortnight. In a fortnight she would be able
to come home again.

*how many days are there in a fortnight ?" she
asked piteously.

*' Fourteen."

Fay, fourteen days away from you !" she
exclaimed, clinging with fond arms round Fay's
neck, and pulling down the dark head on a level
with her own bright hair.

Fay was pale, but tearless, and said not a word.
She let Mildred kiss her, and kissed back again, butin
a dead silence. She went into the hall with the
child, and to the carriage-door, and they kissed each
other on the doorstep, and they kissed at the 
; and then the horses trotted away
along the gravel drive, and Fay had a last glimpse
of the fair head thrust out of the window, and the
lilies and roses of a child's face framed in pale gold
hair.

It was a little more than a fortnight before Bell
and her charge went back to The Hook. Mildred
had sorely missed her playfellow, but had consoled

herself with a spade and pail on the beach, and a
donkey of venerable aspect, whose chief distinction
was his white linen panoply, on the long dusty
roads.

Mrs. Fausset was not at home to receive her
daughter. She had a superior duty at Chertsey,
where people of some social importance were giving
a lawn-party. The house seemed empty and silent,
and all its brightness and graceful furniture, and
flowers in the hall and on the staircase, could not
atone for that want of human life.

** Where is Fay ?" cried Mildred, taking alarm.

Nobody answered a question which was addressed
to everybody.

Fay, Fay, where are you ?" cried the child,
and then rushed up stairs to the schoolroom, light
as a lapwing, distracted with that sudden fear.
"Fay, Fay!" The treble cry rang through the
house.

No one in the schoolroom, nor in Mildred's bedroom,
nor in the little room where Fay had slept,
nor in the drawing-rooms, whither Mildred came
running, after that futile quest up-stairs.

Bell met her in the ball, with a letter in her
hand.

"Your mamma wished to break it to you herself,
miss," said Bell. 'miss Fay has gone."

'gone, where?"

To Brussels."

Where is Brussels ?"

I believe, miss, that it is the capital of Belgium."


Mildred tore open the letter, which Bell read
aloud over the child's shoulder.

"I hope you won't be grieved at losing your
playfellow, my dearest pet. Fay is dreadfully backward
in her education, and has no manners. She
has gone to a finishing-school at Brussels, and you
may not see her again for some years."

And so the years go by, and this story passes onto
a time when the child Mildred is a child no more,
but the happy mother of a fair young daughter, and
the wife of an idolised husband.

WITHOUT THE WOLF.

"Father," said Lola, "there are ever so many
people in the village ill with fever. Isn't it sad ?"

Mr. and Mrs. Greswold, of Enderby Manor, had
been submitting to a fortnight's dissipation in London,
and this was their first Sunday at home after
that interval. They had returned late on the previous
night, and house and gardens had all the
sweetness and freshness of a scene to which one is
restored after absence. They had spent the summer
morning in the little village church with their
daughter ; and now they were enjoying the leisure
interval between church and luncheon.

George Greswold sat in a lounging-chair under a
cedar within twenty yards of the dining-room windows,
and Lola was hanging about him as he read
the Athenaeum, caressing him with little touches of
light hands upon his hair or his coat-collar, adoring
him with all her might after the agony of severance.

She was his only child, and the love between
them was passing the love of the father and daughter
of every-day life. It was an almost romantic attachment.


Like most only daughters, Lola was precocious,
far in advance of her years in thoughtfulness and
emotion, though perhaps a little behind the average
girl of twelve in the severities of feminine education.
She had been her mother's chief companion ever
since she could speak, the confidante of all that
mother's thoughts and fancies, which were as innocent
as those of childhood itself. She had read
much more than most girls of her age, and had
been made familiar with poets whose names are only
known to the schoolgirl in a history of literature.
She knew a good deal about the best books in European
literature ; but, most of all, she knew the hearts
and minds of her father and mother, their loves and
likings, their joys and sorrows. She had never been
shut out from their confidence ; she had never been
told to go and play when they wanted to talk to
each other. She had sat with them, and walked
and ridden and driven with them ever since she was

old enough to dispense with her nurse's arms. She
had lived her young life with them, and had been a
part of their lives.

George Greswold looked up from his Athenaeum
in quick alarm.

"Fever!" he exclaimed, *' fever at Enderby !"

Strange, isn't it, father? Everybody is wondering
about it. Enderby has always been such a
healthy village, and you have taken such pains to
make it so."

"Yes, love, I have done my best. I am a landlord
for pleasure, and not for gain, as you and mother
know."

"And what seems strangest and worst of all,"
continued Lola, " is that this dreadful fever has
broken out among the people you and mother and I
are fondest of  our old friends and pensioners 
and the children we know most about. It seems
so hard that those you and mother have helped the
most should be the first to be ill."

"Yes, love, that must seem very hard to my
tender-hearted darling."

Her father looked up at her fondly as she stood

VOL. I. G

behind Lis chair, her white arm leaning upon his
shoulder. The summer was in its zenith. It was
strawberry time, rose-time, haymaking-time  the
season of nightingales and meadow-sweet and tall
Mary lilies, and all those lovely things that cluster
in the core of summer's great warm heart. Lola
was all in white  a loose muslin frock, straight from
shoulder to instep. Her thick gold hair fell straight
as her frock below her girdled waist, and, in her
white and gold, she had the look of an angel in an
early Italian picture. Her eyes where as blue as that
cloudless sky of midsummer which took a deeper
azure behind the black-green branches of the cedar.

"My pet, I take it this fever is some slight
summer malady. Cottagers are such ravens. They
always make the worst of an illness."

''0, but they really have been very bad. Mary
Martin has had the fever, but she is getting better.
And there's Johnny Giles ; you know what a strong
boy he is. He's very bad, poor little chap  so
delirious ; and I do feel so sorry for his poor
mother. And young Mrs. Peter has it, and two of
her children."



It must be contagious," cried Greswold, seizing
his daughter's round white arm with an agitated
movement. *' You have not been to see any of them,
have you, Lola?" he asked, looking at her with
unspeakable anxiety.

No ; Bell wouldn't let me go to see any of
them ; but of course I have taken them things everyday
 wine and beef-tea and jelly, and everything
we could think of; and they have had as much milk
as they liked."

"You should not have gone yourself with the
things, darling. You should have sent them."

That would seem so unkind, as if one hardly
cared; and Puck with nothing to do all the time
but to drag me about. It was no trouble to go
myself. I did not even go inside the cottages. Bell
said I mustn't."

Bell was right. Well, I suppose there is no
harm done if you didn't go into any of the cottages
; and it was very sweet of you to take the
things yourself; like Red Riding Hood, only without
the wolf. There goes the gong. I hope you are
hungry."

Not very. The weather is too varm for eating
anything hut strawberries."

He looked at her anxiously again, ready to take
alarm at a word.

Yes, it is too warm in this south-western
country," he said nervously. '' We'll go to Scotland
next week."

So soon ?"

*' Why not a little sooner than usual, for once ina
way ?"

I shall be sorry to go away while the people
are ill," she said gravely.

George Greswold forgot that the gong had
sounded. He sat, leaning forward, in a despondent
attitude. The very mention of sickness in the land
had unhinged him. This child was so dear to him,
his only one. He had done all that forethought,
sense, and science could do to make the village
which lay at his doors the perfection of health and
purity. Famous unitarians had been entertained
at the Manor, and had held counsel with Mr.
Greswold upon the progress of sanitation, and its
latest developments. They had wondered with him

over the blind ignorance of our forefathers. They
had instructed him how to drain his house, and how
to ventilate and purify his cottages. They had
assured him that, so far as lay within the limits of
human intelligence, perfection had been achieved in
Enderby village and Enderby Manor House.

And now his idolised daughter hung over his
chair and told him that there was fever raging in
the land, his land ; the land which he loved as if
it were a living thing, and on which he had lavished
care and money ever since he had owned it. Other
men might consider their ancestral estates as something
to be lived upon ; George Greswold thought of
his forefathers' house and lands as something to be
lived for. His cottages were model cottages, and
he was known far and wide as a model landlord.

George, are you quite forgetting luncheon ?"
asked a voice from one of the open windows, and he
looked up to see a beautiful face looking out at him,
framed in hair of Lola's colour.

** My dear Mildred, come here for a moment ?"
he said, and his wife went to him, smiling still, but
with a shade of uneasiness in her face.

'ego iu, pet. We'll follow you directly," lie
said to his daughter ; and then he rose slowly, with
an air of being almost broken down by a great
trouble, and put his hand through his wife's arm,
and led her along the velvet turf beyond the cedar.

Mildred, have you heard of this fever ?"

Yes ; Louisa told me this morning when she
was doing my hair. It seems to be rather bad ;
but there cannot be any danger, surely, after all
you have done to make the cottages perfect in every
way ?"

One cannot tell. There may be a germ of evil
brought from somewhere else. I am sorry Lola has
been among the people."

0, but she has not been inside any of the
cottages. Bell took care to prevent that."

Bell was wise, but she might have done better
still. She should have telegraphed to us. Lola
must not go about any more. You will see to that,
won't you, dearest ? Before the end of the week I
will take you both to Scotland."

"Do you really suppose there can be danger?"
she asked, growing very pale.

*' No, no, I don't apprehend danger. Only it
is better to be over-cautious than over-bold. We
cannot be too careful of our treasure."

"No, no, indeed," answered the mother, with a
piteous look.

"Mother," called Lola from the window, "are
you ever coming? Pomfret will be late for church."

Pomfret was the butler, whose convenience had
to be studied upon Sundays. The servants dined
while the family were at luncheon, and almost all
the establishment went to afternoon service, leaving
a footman and an under-housemaid in sole possession
of the grave old manor-house, where the silence had
a solemnity as in some monastic chapel. Lola was
anxious that luncheon should begin, and Pomfret be
dismissed to eat his dinner.

This child of twelve had more than a woman's
forethought. She spent her life in thinking about
other people; but of all those whom she loved, and
for whom she cared, her father was first and chief.
For him her love was akin to worship.

She watched his face anxiously now, as she took
her seat at his right hand, and was silent until

Pomfret had served the soup and retired, leaving all
the rest of the luncheon on the table, and the wine
on a dumb-waiter by his master's side.

There was always a cold lunch on Sundays, and
the evening meal was also cold, a compromise
between dinner and supper, served at nine o'clock,
by which time the servants had gratified their
various tastes for church or chapel, and had enjoyed
an evening walk. There was no parsonage in
England where the day of rest was held in more
reverence than it was at Enderby Manor.

Mr. Greswold was no bigot, his religion in nowise
savoured of the over-good school; but he was a
man of deep religious convictions ; and he had been
brought up to honour Sunday as a day set apart.

The Sunday parties and Sunday amusements of
fashionable London were an abomination to him,
though he was far too liberal-minded to wish to
shut museums and picture-galleries against the
people.

*' Father," said Lola, when they were alone,
*' I'm afraid you had your bad dream last night."

Greswold looked at her curiously.

*' No, love, my dreams were colourless, and have
left not even a remembrance."

"And yet you look sorrowful, just as you always
look after your bad dream."

Your father is anxious about the cottagers
who are ill, dearest," said Mrs. Greswold. " That
is all."

*' But you must not be unhappy about them,
father dear. You don't think that any of them will
die, do you ?" asked Lola, drawing very near him,
and looking up at him with awe-stricken eyes.

Indeed, my love, I hope not. They shall not
die, if care can save them. I will walk round the
village with Porter this afternoon, and find out all
about the trouble. If there is anything that he
cannot understand, we'll have Dr. Hutchinson over
from Southampton, or a physician from London if
necessary. My people shall not be neglected."

May I go with you this afternoon, father ?"

No, dearest, neither you nor mother must
leave the grounds till we go away. I will have
no needless risks run by my dear ones."

Neither mother nor daughter disputed his will

upon this point. He was the sole arbiter of their
lives. It seemed almost as if they lived only to
please him. Both would have liked to go with him;
both thought him over-cautious ; yet neither attempted
to argue the point. Happy household in
which there are no arguments upon domestic
trifles, no bickering about the infinitesimals of
life !

Enderby Manor was one of those ideal homes
which adorn the face of England and sustain its
reputation as the native soil of domestic virtues,
the country in which good wives and good mothers
are indigenous.

There are many such ideal homes in the land as
to outward aspect, seen from the high-road, across
park or pasture, shrubbery or flower-garden ; but
only a few of these sustain the idea upon intimate
knowledge of the interior.

Here, within as well as without, the atmosphere
was peace. Those velvet lawns and brilliant flowerbeds
were not more perfect than the love between
husband and wife, child and parents. No cloud had
ever shadowed that serene heaven of domestic peace.

George Greswold had married at thirty a girl of
eighteen who adored him ; and those two had lived
for each other and for their only child ever since.
All outside the narrow circle of family love counted
only as the margin or the framework of life. All
the deepest and sweetest elements of life were within
the veil. Mildred Greswold could not conceive a
fashionable woman's existence  a life given up to
frivolous occupations and futile excitements  a life
of empty pleasure faintly flavoured with art, literature,
science, philanthropy, and politics, and fancying
itself eminently useful and eminently progressive.
She had seen such an existence in her childhood,
and had wondered that any reasoning creature could
so live. She had turned her hack upon the modish
world when she married George Greswold, and had
surrendered most of the delights of society to lead
quiet days in her husband's ancestral home, loving
that old house for his sake, as he loved it for the
sake of the dead.

They were not in outer darkness, however, as to
the movement of the world. They spent a fortnight
at Glimmers occasionally, when the fancy moved

them. They saw all the pictures worth seeing,
heard a good deal of the best music, mixed just
enough in society to distinguish gold from tinsel,
and to make a happy choice of friends.

They occasionally treated themselves to a week
in Paris, and their autumn holidays were mostly
spent in a shooting-box twenty miles beyond Inverness.
They came back to the Manor in time for
the pheasant-shooting, and the New Year generally
began with a house-party which lasted with variations
until the hunting was all over, and the young
leaves were green in the neighbouring forest. No
lives could have been happier, or fuller of interest ;
but the interest all centred in home. Farmers and
cottagers on the estate were cared for as a part of
home ; and the estate itself was loved almost asa
living thing by husband and wife, and the fairchild
who had been born to them in the old-fashioned
house.

The grave red-brick manor-house had been built
when William III. was King ; and there were some
Dutch innovations in the Old English architecture,
notably a turret or pavilion at the end of each wing,

and a long bowling-green on the western side of the
garden. The walls had that deep glowing red
which is only seen in old brickwork, and the black
glazed tiles upon the hopper roof glittered in the
sunlight with the prismatic hues of antique Rhodian
glass. The chief characteristic of the interior was
the oak-panelling, which clothed the rooms and
corridors as in a garment of sober brown, and would
have been suggestive of gloom but for the pictures
and porcelain which brightened every wall, and the
rich colouring of brocaded curtains and tapestry
porters. The chief charm of the house was the
aspect of home life, the books and musical instruments,
the art treasures, and flowers, and domestic
trifles to be seen everywhere ; the air which every
room and every nook and corner had of being lived
in by home-loving and home-keeping people.

The pavilion at the end of the south-west wing
was Lola's special domain, that and the room communicating
with it. That pretty sitting-room, with
dwarf book - shelves, water - colour pictures, and
Wedgwood china, was never called a schoolroom.
It was Lola's study.

There shall be no suggestion of school in our
home," said George Greswold.

It was he who chose his daughter's masters,
and it was often he who attended during the lesson,
listening intently to the progress of the work, and
as keenly interested in the pupil's progress as the
pupil herself. Latin he himself taught her, and
she already knew by heart those noblest of Horace's
odes which are fittest for young lips. Their philosophy
saddened her a little.

Is life always changing ?" she asked her father;
<* must one never venture to be quite happy ?"

The Latin poet's pervading idea of mutability,
inevitable death, and inevitable change impressed
her with a flavour of sadness, child as she was.

My dearest, had Horace been a Christian, as
you are, and had he lived for others, as you do, he
would not have been afraid to call himself happy,"
answered George Greswold. "He was a Pagan,
and he put on the armour of philosophy for want of
the armour of faith."

These lessons in the classics, taking a dead
language not as a dry study of grammar and dictionary,

but as the gate to new worlds of poetry
and philosophy, had been Lola's delight. She was
in no wise unpleasantly precocious ; but she was far
in advance of the conventional schoolroom child,
trained into characterless uniformity by a superior
governess. Lola had never been under governess
rule. Her life at the Manor had been as free as
that of the butterflies. There was only Bell to
lecture her  white-haired Mrs. Bell, thin and spare,
straight as an arrow, at seventy-four years of age,
the embodiment of servants'-hall gentility, in her
black silk afternoon gown and neat cambric cap 
Bell, who looked after Lola's health, and Lola's
rooms, and was for ever tidying the drawers and
tables, and lecturing upon the degeneracy of girlhood.
It was her boast to have nursed Lola's
grandmother, as well as Lola's mother, which
seemed going back to the remoteness of the dark
ages.

Enderby Manor was three miles from Romney,
and within riding or driving distance of the New
Forest and of Salisbury Cathedral. It lay in the
heart of a pastoral district watered by the Test, and

was altogether one of the most enjoyable estates in
that part of the country.

Before luncheon was finished a messenger was on
his way to the village to summon Mr. Porter, more
commonly Dr. Porter, the parish and everybody's
doctor, an elderly man of burly figure, close-cropped
gray hair, and yeoman-like bearing  a man born on
the soil, whose father and grandfather and great-grandfather
had cured or killed the inhabitants of
Enderby parish from time immemorial. Judging
from the tombstones in the pretty old churchyard,
they must have cured more than they killed ; for
those crumbling moss-grown stones bore the record
of patriarchal lives, and the union near Enderby was
a museum of incipient centenarians.

Mr. Porter came into the grave old library at the
Manor looking more serious than his wont, perhaps
in sympathy with George Greswold's anxious face,
turned towards the door as the footman opened it.

Well, Porter, what does it all mean, this
fever ?" asked Greswold abruptly.

Mr. Porter had a manner of discussing a case
which was all his own. He always appealed to his

patient with a professional air, as if consulting another
medical authority, and a higher one than
himself. It was flattering, perhaps, but not always
satisfactory.

Well, you see, there's the high temperature
104 in some cases  and there's the inflamed
throat, and there's headache. What do 2/ozt say ? "
** Don't talk nonsense. Porter ; you must know
whether it is an infectious fever or not. If you
don't know, we'll send to Southampton for Hutchinson."


Of course, you can have him if you like. I
judge more by temperature than anything  the
thermometer is a safer guide than the pulse, as you
know. I took their temperatures this morning
before I went to church : only one case in which
there was improvement  all the others decidedly
worse ; very strongly developed cases of malignant
fever  typhus or typhoid  which, as you know,
by Jenner's differentiation of the two forms  "

*' For God's sake, man, don't talk to me as if
I were a doctor, and had your ghoulish relish of
VOL. I. n

disease ! If you have the slightest doubt as to
treatment, send for Hutchinson."

He took a sheaf of telegraph-forms from the
stand in front of him, and began to write his message
while he was talking. He had made up his
mind that Dr. Hutchinson must come to see these
humble sufferers, and to investigate the cause of
evil. He had taken such pains to create a healthy
settlement, had spared no expense; and for fifteen
years, from the hour of his succession until now, all
had gone well with him. And now there was fever
in the land, fever in the air breathed by those two
beloved ones, daughter and wife.

"I have been so happy; my life has been cloudless,
save for one dark memory," he said to himself,
covering his face with his hands as he leaned with
his elbows on the table, while Mr. Porter expatiated
upon the cases in the village, and on fever in general.
I have tested the water in all the wells  perfectly
pure. There can be nothing amiss with the
milk, for all my patients are on Mrs. Greswold's
list, and are getting their milk from your own
dairy. The drainage is perfection  yet here we

have an outbreak of fever, which looks remarkably
like typhoid ?"

Why not say at once that it is typhoid ?"

'' The symptoms all point that way."

You say there can be nothing amiss with the
milk. You have not analysed it, I suppose ?"

Why should I ? Out of your own dairy, where
everything is managed in the very best way  the
perfection of cleanliness in every detail."

"You ought to have analysed the milk, all the
same," said Greswold thoughtfully. *' The strength
of a chain is its weakest link. There may be some
weak link here, though we cannot put our fingers
upon it  yet. Are there many cases ?"

"Let me see. There's Johnny Giles, and Mrs.
Peter and her children, and Janet Dawson, and
there's Andrew Rogers, and there's Mary Rainbow,"
began Mr. Porter, counting on his fingers as he
went on, until the list of sufferers came to eleven.
"Mostly youngsters," he said in conclusion.

They ought to have been isolated," said Griswold.
" I will get out plans for an infirmary tomorrow.
There is the willow-field, on the other

side of the Tillage, a ridge of high ground sloping
down towards the parish drain, with a southern
exposure, a capital site for a hospital. It is dreadful
to think of fever-poison spreading from half-a-dozen
different cottages. Which was the first case ?'*

Little Rainbow."

' That fair-haired child whom I used to see
from my dressing-room window every morning as
she went away from the dairy, tottering under a
pitcher of milk ? Poor little Polly ! She was a
favourite with us all. Is she very ill ?"

Yes, I think hers is about the best case,"
answered the doctor unctuously; 'the others are a
little vague ; but there's no doubt about her, all the
symptoms strongly marked  a very clear case."

Is there airy danger of a fatal termination ?"

*' I'm afraid there is."

"Poor little Polly  poor pretty little girl! I
used to know it was seven o'clock when I saw that
bright little flaxen head flit by the yew hedge yonder.
Polly was as good a timekeeper as any clock
in the village. And you think she may die ? You
have not told Lola, I hope ?"

'' No, I have not let out anything about danger.
Lola is only too anxious already."

**I will put the infirmary in hand tomorrow;
and I will take my wife and daughter to Scotland on
Tuesday."

*' Upon my word, it will be a very good thing to
get them away. These fever cases are so mysterious.
There's no knowing what shape infection may
take. I have the strongest belief in your system of
drainage  "

"Nothing is perfect," said Greswold impatiently.
The science of sanitation is still in its infancy. I
sometimes think we have not advanced very far from
the knowledge of our ancestors, whose homes were
desolated by the Black Death. However, don't let
us talk, Porter. Let us act, if we can. Come and
look at the dairy."

You don't apprehend evil there ?"

There are three sources of typhoid poison 
drainage, water, milk. You say the drains and the
water are good, and that the milk comes from my
own dairy. If you are right as to the first and

second, the third must be wrong, no matter whose
dairy it may come from."

He took up his hat, and went out of the house
with the doctor. Gardens and shrubberies stretched
before them in all their luxuriance of summer verdure,
gardens and shrubberies which had been the
delight and pride of many generations of Griswold,
but loved more dearly by none than by George
Greswold and his wife. In Mildred's mind the old
family house was a part of her husband's individuality
an attribute rather than a mere possession.
Every tree and every shrub was sacred. These, his
mother's own hands had cropped and tended ; those,
grandfathers and great-grandfathers and article
great-grandfathers had planted in epochs that distance
has made romantic.

On the right of the hall-door a broad gravel path
led in a serpentine sweep towards the stables, a
long, low building spread over a considerable area,
and hidden by shrubberies. The dairy was a little
further off, approached by a winding walk through
thickets of laurel and arbutus. It had been originally
a barn, and was used as a receptacle for all

manner of out-of-door lumber when Mildred came to
the Manor. She had converted the old stone building
into a model dairy, with outside gallery and
staircase of solid woodwork, and with a Swiss roof.
Other buildings had been added. There were low
hothouses, and tall pigeon-houses, and a picturesque
variety of gables and elevations which was
delightful to the eye, seen on a summer afternoon
such as this June Sunday, amidst the perfume of
clove carnations and old English roses, and the
cooing of doves.

Mrs. Goes wold's Channel Island cows were her
delight  creatures with cream-coloured coats, black
noses, and wistful brown eyes. Scarcely a day
passed on which she did not waste an hour or so in
the hothouses or in the meadows caressing these
favourites. Each cow had her name painted in
blue and white above her stall, and the chief, or
duchess of the herd, was very severe in the maintenance
of townhouse precedence, and knew how
to resent the insolence of a new-comer who should
presume to cross the threshold in advance of her.

The dairy itself had a solemn and shadowy air,

like a shrine, and was as pretty as the dairy at Frog-more.
The walls were lined with Minton tiles, the
shallow milk-pans were of Dutton pottery, and
quaintly-shaped pitchers of bright colours were
ranged on china brackets along the walls. The
windows were latticed, and a pane of ruby, rose, or
amethyst appeared here and there among the old
bottle-green glass, and cast a patch of coloured light
upon the cool marble slab below.

The chief dairy-woman lived at an old-fashioned
cottage on the premises, with her husband, the cow-keeper
; and their garden, which lay at the back of
the hothouses and dairy, was the ideal old English
garden, in which flowers and fruit strive for the
mastery. In a corner of this garden, close to the
outer offices of the cottage, among rows of peas, and
summer cabbages, and great overgrown lavender-bushes
and moss-roses, stood the old well, with its
crumbling brick border and ancient spindle, a well
that had been dug when the old manor-house was
new.

There were other water arrangements for Mrs.
Greswold's dairy, a new artesian well, on a hill a

quarter of a mile from the kitchen-garden, a well
that went deep down into the chalk, and was famous
for the purity of its water. All the drinking-water
of the house was supplied from this well, and the
water was laid on in iron pipes to dairy and cow-houses.
All the vessels used for milk or cream
were washed in this water ; at least, such were Mr.
Greswold's strict orders  orders supposed to be carried
out under the supervision of his bailiff and
housekeeper.

Mr. Porter looked at a reeking heap of stable
manure that sprawled within twenty feet of the old
well with suspicion in his eye, and from the manure-heap
he looked at the back premises of the old cob-walled
cottage.

I'm afraid there may have been savage from
that manure-heap into the well," he said ; " and if
your dairy vessels are washed in that water  "

"But they never are," interrupted Mr. Griswold;
'' that water is used only for the garden  eh,
Mrs. Wadman ?"

The dairy-woman was standing on the threshold
of her neat little kitchen, curtseying to her master.

resplendent in her Sunday gown of bright blue
merino, and her Sunday brooch, containing her
husband's photograph, coloured out of knowledge.

'* No, of course not, sir ; leastways, never except
when there was something wrong with the pipes
from the artesian."

Something wrong ; when was that ? I never
heard of anything wrong."

'well, sir, my husband didn't want to be
troublesome, and Mr. Thomas he gave the order for
the men from Komsey, that was on the Saturday
after working-hours, and they was to come as it
might be on the Monday morning, and they never
come near; and Mr. Thomas he wrote and wrote,
and my husband he says it ain't no use writing, and
he takes the pony and rides over to Romsey in his
overtime, and he complains about the men not
coming, and they tells him there's a big job on
at Headlands and not a plumber to be had for
love or money ; but the pipes is all right noiVj
sir."

'' Now ? Since when have they been in working
order ?"

'' Since yesterday, sir. Mr. Thomas was determined
he'd have everything right before you came
back."

** And how long have you been using that water,"
pointing to the well, with its moss-grown brickwork
and flaunting margin of yellow stonecrop, " for dairy
purposes ?"

*swell, you see, sir, we was obliged to use water
of some kind ; and there ain't purer or better water
than that for twenty mile round. I always use it
for my kettle every time I make tea for mo or my
master, and never found no harm from it in the last
fifteen years,"

"How long have you used it for the dairy?"
repeated George Greswold angrily ; " can't you give
a straight answer, woman ?"

Mrs, Wadman could not : had never achieved a
direct reply to a plain question within the memory
of man.

The men was to have come on the Monday
morning, first thing," she said, "and they didn't
come till the Tuesday week after that, and then they
was that slow  "

George Greswold walked up and down the garden
path, raging.

She won't answer !" he cried. *' Was it a week
a fortnight  three weeks ago that you began to
use that water for your dairy?" he asked sternly;
and gradually he and the doctor induced her to
acknowledge that the garden well had been in use
for the dairy nearly three weeks before yesterday.


Then that is enough to account for everything,"
said Dr. Porter. "First there is filtration of manure
through a gravelly soil  inevitable  and next
there is something worse. She had her sister here
from Salisbury  six weeks ago  down with typhoid
fever three days after she came  brought it from
Salisbury."

*eyes, yes  I remember. You told me there
was no danger of infection."

There need have been none. I made her use
all precautions possible in an old-fashioned cottage ;
but however careful she might be, there would be
always the risk of a well  close at hand like that
one  getting tainted. I asked her if she ever used

that water for anything but the garden, and she
said no, the artesian well supplied every want. And
now she talks about her kettle, and tells us coolly
that she has been using that polluted water for the
last three weeks  and poisoning a whole village."

Me poisoning the village ! Dr. Porter, how
can you say such a cruel thing? Me, that wouldn't
hurt a fly if I knew it !"

Perhaps not, Mrs. Wadman ; but I'm afraid
you've hurt a good many of your neighbours without
knowing it."

George Greswold stood in the pathway silent and
deadly pale. He had been so happy for the last
thirteen years  a sky without a cloud  and now in a
moment the clouds were closing round him, and
again all might be darkness, as it had been once
before in his life. Calamity for which he felt himself
unaccountable had come upon him before 
swift as an arrow from the bow  and now again he
stood helpless, smitten by the hand of Fate.

He thought of the little village child, with her
guileless face, looking up at his window as she
tripped by with her pitcher. His dole of milk had

been fatal to the simple souls who bad looked up to
bim as a Providence. He bad taken such pains that
all should be sweet and wholesome in bis people's
cottages ; he bad spent money like water, and bad
lectured them and taught them ; and lo ! from his
own luxurious home the evil had gone forth. Careless
servants, hushing up a difficulty, loth to approach
him with plain facts lest they should be
considered troublesome, had wrought this evil, had
spread disease and death in the land.

And bis own and only child, the delight of his
life, the apple of bis eye  that tainted milk bad
been served at her table ! Amidst all that grace
of porcelain and flowers the poison bad lurked, as
at the cottagers' board. What if she, too, should
suffer ?

He meant to take her away in* a day or two 
now  now when the cause of evil was at work no
longer. The thought that it might be too late, that
the germ of poison might lurk in the heart of that
fair flower, filled bim with despair.

Mrs. Wadman had run into her cottage, shedding
indignant tears at Dr. Porter's cruelty. She came

out again, with a triumphant air, carrying a tumbler
of water.

"Just look at it, sir," she said; "look how
bright and clear it is. There never was better
water."

"]\Jy good woman, in this case brightness and
clearness mean corruption," said the doctor. " If
you'll give me a pint of that water in a bottle I'll
take it home with me, and test it before I sleep tonight."


*' AH ! PITY ! THE LILY IS WITHERED."

George Greswold left the dairy-garden like a man
stricken to death. He felt as if the hand of Fate
were on him. It was not his fault that this evil had
come upon him, that these poor people whom he had
tried to help suffered hy his bounty, and were perhaps
to die for it. He had done all that human
foresight could do ; but the blind folly of his servants
had stultified his efforts. Nothing in a London
slum could have been worse than this evil which had
come about in a gentleman's ornamental dairy, upon
premises where money had been lavished to secure
the perfection of scientific sanitation.

Mr. Porter murmured some hopeful remark as
they went back to the house.

*' Don't talk about it, Porter," Greswold answered
impatiently ; '' nothing could be worse 
nothing. Do all you can for these poor people 

your uttermost, mind, your uttermost. Spare neither
time nor money. Save them, if you can."

'' You may be assured I shall do my best.
There are only three or four very bad cases."

Three or four ! My God, how horrible ! Three
or four people murdered by the idiocy of my servants."


"Joe Standing  not much chance for him, I'm
afraid  and Polly Rainbow."

Polly  poor pretty little Polly ! Porter, you
must save her ! You must perform a miracle, man.
That is what genius means in a doctor. The man
of genius does something that all other doctors have
pronounced impossible. You will have Hutchinson
over tomorrow. He may be able to help you."

"If she live till tomorrow. I'm afraid it's a
question of a few hours."

George Greswold groaned aloud.

And my daughter has been drinking the same
tainted milk. "Will she be stricken, do you think?"
he asked, with an awful calmness.

*' God forbid ! Lola has such a fine constitution

VOL. I. I

hind the antecedent circumstances are different. I'll
go and have a look at my patients, and come back
to you late in the evening with the last news."

They parted by a little gate at the corner of a
thick yew hedge, which admitted Mr. Greswold into
his wife's flower-garden : a very old garden, which had
been the care and delight of many generations; a
large square garden, with broad flower-beds on each
side, a stone sundial in the centre of a grass-plot,
and a buttressed wall at the end, a massive old wall
of vermilion brickwork, honeycombed by the decay
of centuries, against which a double rank of hollyhocks
made a parti coloured screen, while flaunting
dragon's-mouth and yellow stonecrop made a flame
of colour on the top.

There was an old stone summer-house in each
angle of that end wall, temples open to the sun and
air, and raised upon three marble steps, stained
with moss and lichen.

Charming as these antique retreats were to muse
or read in, Mildred Greswold preferred taking tea on
the lawn, in the shadow of the two old cedars. She
was sitting in a low garden-chair, with a Japanese

tea-table at her side, and a volume of Robertson's
sermons on her lap.

It was a rule of life at Enderby Manor that only
books of pious tendency should be read on Sundays.
The Sunday library was varied and well chosen.
Nobody ever found the books dull or the day too
long. The dedication of that one day in seven to
godliness and good works had never been an oppression
to Mildred Greswold.

She remembered her mother's Sundays  days of
hasty church, and slow elaborate dressing for afternoon
or evening gaieties ; days of church parade and
much praise of other people's gowns and depreciation
of other people's conduct ; days of gadding about
and running from place to place; Sunday luncheons,
Sunday musical parties, Sunday expeditions up the
river, Sunday in the studios, Sunday at Richmond
or Greenwich. Mrs. Greswold remembered the fussy
emptiness of that fashionable Sunday, and preferred
sermons and tranquil solitude in the manor
gardens.

Solitude meant a trinity of domestic love. Husband,
wife, and daughter spent their Sundays

together. Those were blessed days for the wife and
daughter, since there were no business engagements,
no quarter sessions, or interviews with the bailiff, or
letter-writing, to rob them of the society they both
loved best in the world. George Greswold devoted
his Sundays entirely to his Creator and his home.

*' Where is Lola ?" he asked, surprised to find
his wife alone at this hour.

She has a slight headache, and I persuaded her
to lie down for an hour or so."

The father's face blanched. A word was enough
in his overwrought condition.

"Porter must see her," he said; 'rand I have
just let him leave me. I'll send some one after
him."

"My dear George, it is nothing ; only one of her
usual headaches."

You are sure she was not feverish ?"

I think not. It never occurred to me. She
has often complained of headache since she began
to grow so fast."

Yes, she has shot up like a tall white lily 
my lily !" murmured the father tenderly.

He sank into a chair, feeling helpless, hopeless
almost, under that overpowering sense of fatality 
of undeserved evil.

'* Dear George, you look so ill this afternoon,"
said his wife, with tender anxiety, laying her hand
on his shoulder, and looking earnestly at him, as he
sat there in a downcast attitude, his arms hanging
loosely, his eyes bent upon the ground. " I'm afraid
the heat has overcome you."

*eyes, it has been very hot. Do me a favour,
Mildred. Go into the house, and send somebody
to find Porter. He was going the round of the
cottages where there are sick people. He can easily
be found. I want him to see Lola, at once."

I'll send after him, George ; but, indeed, I
don't see any need for a doctor. Lola is so strong ;
her headaches pass like summer clouds. George,
you don't think that she is going to have fever, like
the cottagers !" cried Mildred, full of a sudden
terror.

No, no ; of course not. Why should she have
the fever ? But Porter might as well see her at
once  at once. I hate delay in such cases."

His wife hurried away without a word. He had
imbued her with all his own fears.

He sat in the garden, just as she had left him,
motionless, benumbed with sorrow. There might,
indeed, be no ground for this chilling fear ; others
might die, and his beloved might still go unscathed.
But she had been subjected to the same poison, and
at any moment the same symptoms might show
themselves. For the next week or ten days he must
be haunted by a hideous spectre. He would make
haste to get his dearest one away to the strong
fresh mountain air, to the salt breath of the German
Ocean ; but if the poison had already tainted that
young life, mountain and sea could not save her
from the fever. She must pass through the furnace,
as those others were passing.

Poor little Polly Rainbow ! The only child of a
widow ; the only one ; like mine," he said to himself.

He sat in the garden till dusk, brooding, praying
dumbly, unutterably sad. The image of the widow
of Nain was in his mind while he sat there. The
humble funeral train, the mourning mother, and
that divine face shining out of the little group of

peasant faces, radiant with intellect and faith 
among them, but not of them  and the uplifted
hand beckoning the dead man from the bier.

"The age of miracles is past," he thought:
"there is no Saviour in the land to help me ! In
my day of darkness Heaven made no sign. I was
left to suffer as the worms suffer under the ploughshare,
and to wriggle back to life as best I could,
like them."

It was growing towards the summer darkness
when he rose and went into the house, where he
questioned the butler, whom he met in the hall.
Mr. Porter had been brought back, and had seen
Miss Greswold. He had found her slightly feverish,
and had ordered her to go to bed. Mrs. Greswold was
sitting with her. Did Dr. Porter seem anxious ?
No, not at all anxious ; but he was going to send
Miss Laura some medicine before bedtime.

It was after nine now, but Greswold could not
stay in the house. He wanted to know how it fared
with his sick tenantry  most of all with the little
flaxen-haired girl he had so often noticed of late.

He went out into the road that led to the village,
a scattered colony, a cottage here and there, or a
cluster of cottages and gardens on a bit of rising
ground above the road. There was a common a
little way from the Manor, a picturesque, irregular
expanse of hollows and hillocks, skirted by a few
cottages, and with a fir plantation shielding it from
the north. Mrs. Kainbow's cottage stood between
the common and the fir-wood, an old half-timbered
cottage, very low, with a bedroom in the roof, and
a curious dormer-window, with a thatched arch projecting
above the lattice, like an overhanging eyebrow.
The little garden was aflame with scarlet
bean-blossom, roses, and geraniums, and the perfume
of sweet-peas filled the air.

Greswold heard the doctor talking in the upper
chamber as he stood by the gate. The deep, grave
tones were audible in the evening stillness, and
there was another sound that chilled the Squire's
heart : the sound of a woman's suppressed weeping.

He waited at the gate. He had not the nerve to
go into the cottage and face that sorrowing widow.
It seemed to him as if the child's peril were his

aunt. It was not enough that he had taken all
reasonable precautions. He ought to have foreseen
the idiocy of his servants. He ought to have been
more on the alert to prevent evil.

The great round moon came slowly up out of a
cluster of Scotch firs. How black the branches
looked against that red light ! Slowly, slowly gliding
upward in a slanting line, the moon stole at the
back of those black branches, and climbed into the
open sky.

How often Lola had watched such a moonrise at
his side, and with what keen eyes she had noted the
beauty of the spectacle ! It was not that he had
trained her to observe and to feel the loveliness of
nature. With her that feeling had been an instinct,
born with her, going before the wisdom of maturity,
the cultivated taste of travelled experience.

To-night she was lying in her darkened room,
the poor head heavy and painful on the pillow. She
would not see the moon rising slowly yonder in
that cloudless sky.

'* No matter ; she will see it tomorrow, I hope,"
he said to himself, trying to be cheerful. "I am a

morbid fool to torment myself; she has been subject
to headaches of late. Mildred is right."

And then he remembered that death and sorrow
were near  close to him as he stood there watching
the moon. He remembered poor little Polly Rainbow,
and desponded again.

A woman's agonised cry broke the soft summer
stillness, and pierced George Greswold's heart.

The child is dead !" he thought.

Yes, poor little Polly was gone. The widow
came out to the gate presently, sobbing piteously,
and clasped Mr. Greswold's hand and cried over it,
broken down by her despair, leaning against the
gate-post, as if her limbs had lost the power to bear
her up.

0, sir, she was my all !" she sobbed ; " she
was my all !"

She could say no more than this, but kept repeating
it again and again. *' She was all I had in
the world ; the only thing I cared for."

George Greswold touched her shoulder with protecting
gentleness. There was not a peasant in the
village for whom he had not infinite tenderness 

pitying their infirmities, forgiving their errors, inexhaustible
in benevolence towards them all. He had
set himself to make his dependents happy as the
first duty of his position. And yet he had done
them evil unwittingly. He had cost this poor
widow her dearest treasure  her one ewe lamb.

*' Bear up, if you can, my good soul," he said ;
** I know that it is hard."

*' Ah, sir, you'd know it better if it was your
young lady that was stricken down !" exclaimed the
widow bitterly ; and the Squire walked away from the
cottage-gate without another word.

Yes, he would know it better then. His heart
was heavy enough now. What would it be like if
she were smitten ?

She was much the same next day : languid, with
an aching head and some fever. She was not very
feverish. On the whole, the doctor was hopeful, or
he pretended to be so. He could give no positive
opinion yet, nor could Dr. Hutchinson. They were
both agreed upon that point ; and they were agreed
that the polluted water in the garden v\ell had been

the cause of the village epidemic. Analysis had
shown that it was charged with poisonous gas.

Mr. Greswold hastened his preparations for the
journey to Scotland with a feverish eagerness. He
wrote to engage a sleeping-carriage on the Great
Northern. They were to travel on Thursday,
leaving home before noon, dining in town, and
starting for the North in the evening. If Lola's
illness were indeed the slight indisposition which
everybody hoped it was, she might be quite able to
travel on Thursday, and the change of air and the
movement would do her good.

She is always so well in Scotland," said her
father.

No, there did not seem much amiss with her.
She was very sweet, and even cheerful, when her
father went into her room to sit beside her bed fora
quarter of an hour or so. The doctors had ordered
that she should be kept very quiet, and a hospital
nurse had been fetched from Salisbury to sit up at
night with her. There was no necessity for such
care, but it was well to do even a little too much
where so cherished a life was at stake. People had

but to look at the father's face to know how precious
that frail existence was to him. Nor was it less
dear to the mother ; but she seemed less apprehensive,
less bowed down by gloomy forebodings.

Yes, Lola was quite cheerful for those few
minutes in which her father sat by her side. The
strength of her love overcame her weakness. She
forgot the pain in her head, the weariness of her
limbs, while he was there. She questioned him
about the villagers.

'' How is little Polly going on ?" she asked.

He dared not tell the truth. It would have
hurt him too much to speak to her of death.

"She is going on very well; all is well, love,"
he said, deceiving her for the first time in his
life.

This was on Tuesday, and the preparations for
Scotland where still in progress. Mr. Greswold's
talk with his daughter was all of their romantic
Highland home, of the picnics and rambles, the
fishing excursions and sketching parties they would
have there. The nurse sat in a corner and listened
to them with a grave countenance, and would not

allow Mr. Greswold more than ten minutes with his
daughter.

He counted the hours till they should be on the
road for the North. There would be the rest of
Tuesday and all Wednesday. She would be up and
dressed on Wednesday, no doubt ; and on Thursday
morning the good old gray carriage-horses would
take them all off to Komsey Station  such a pretty
drive on a summer morning, by fields and copses,
with changeful glimpses of the silvery Test.

Dr. Hutchinson came on Tuesday evening, and
found his patient not quite so well. There was a
long conference between the two doctors, and then
the nurse was called in to receive her instructions ;
and then Mr. Greswold was told that the journey to
Scotland mush be put off for a fortnight at the very
least.

He received the sentence as if it had been his
death-warrant. He asked no questions. He dared
not, A second nurse was to be sent over from
Southampton next morning. The two doctors had
the cool, determined air of men who are preparing
for a battle.

Lola, was liglit-lieaded next morning ; but with
intervals of calmness and consciousness. She
heard the church bell tolling, and asked what it
meant.

"It's for Polly Kainbow's funeral," answered the
maid who was tidying the room.

0, no," cried Lola, " that can't be ! Father
said she was better."

And then her mind began to wander, and she
talked of Polly Rainbow as if the child had been in
the room : talked of the little girl's lessons at the
parish school, and of a prize that she was to get.

After that all was darkness, all was despair  a
seemingly inevitable progress from bad to worse-science,
care, love, prayers  all were futile ; and the
bell that had tolled for the widow's only child tolled
ten days afterwards for Lola.

It seemed to George Greswold as those slow
strokes beat upon his brain, heavily, heavily, like
minute guns, that all the hopes and cares and joys
and expectations life had held for him were over.
His wife was on her knees in the darkened house
from which the funeral train was slowly moving,

and he had loved her passionately ; and yet it
seemed to him as if the open car yonder, with its
coffin hidden under snow-white blossoms, was carrying
away all that had ever been precious to him
upon this earth.

She was the morning, with its promise of
day," he said to himself. " She was the springtime,
with its promise of summer. While I had
her I lived in the future ; henceforward I can only
live in the present. I dare not look back upon
the past !"

DRIFTING APART.

George Greswold and his wife spent the rest of
that fatal year in a villa on the Lake of Thun, an
Italian villa, with a campbell tower, and a long
white colonnade, and stone balconies overhanging
lawn and gardens, where the flowers grew in a
riotous profusion. The villa was midway between
two of the boat-stations, and there was no other
house near, and this loneliness was its chief charm
for those two heart-broken mourners. They yearned
for no sympathy, they cared for no companionship 
hardly even for that of each other, close as the bond
of love had been till now. Each seemed to desire
above all things to be alone with that great grief 
to hug that dear, sad memory in silence and solitude.
Only to see them from a distance, from the
boat yonder, as it glided swiftly past that flowery
lawn, an observer would have guessed at sorrow
Viii. I . K

and bereavement from the mere attitude of either
mourner  the man sitting with his head bent
forward, brooding on the ground, the unread newspaper
lying across his knee ; the woman on the
other side of the lawn, beyond speaking distance,
half reclining in a low basket-chair, with her hands
clasped above her head, gazing at the distant line of
snow mountains in listless vacancy. The huge tan-coloured
St. Bernard, snapping with his great
cavern-like jaws at infinitesimal flies, was the only
object that gave life to the picture.

The boats went by in sunshine and cloud, the
boats went by under torrential rain, which seemed to
fuse lake and mountains, villas and gardens, into
one watery chaos ; the boats went by, and the days
passed like the boats, and made no difference in the
lives of those two mourners. Nothing could ever
make any difference to either of them for evermore,
it seemed to Mildred. It was as if some spring had
broken in the machinery of life. Even love seemed
dead.

And yet he was once so fond of me, and I
of him," thought the wife, watching her husband's

face, with its curious look of absence  the look of a
window with the blind down.

There were times when that look of utter abstraction
almost frightened Mildred Greswold. It
was an expression she had seen occasionally during
her daughter's lifetime, and which had always made
her anxious. It was the look about which Lola
used to say when they all met at the breakfast-table,


*' Papa has had his bad dream again."

That bad dream was no invention of Lola's, buta
stern reality in George Greswold's life. He would
start up from his pillow in an agony, muttering-broken
sentences in that voice of the sleeper which
seems always different from his natural voice  as if
he belonged to another world. Cold beads of sweat
would start out upon his forehead, and the wife
would put her arms round him and soothe him as a
mother soothes her frightened child, until the muttering
ceased and he sank upon his pillow exhausted,
to lapse into quiet sleep, or else awoke and recovered
calmness in awakening.

The dream  whatever it was  always left its

mark upon him next day. It was a kind of nightmare,
he told his wife, when she gently questioned
him, not urging her questions lest there should be
pain in the mere recollection of that horrid vision.
He could give no graphic description of that dream.
It was all confusion  a blurred and troubled picture
; but that confusion was in itself agony.

Rarely were his muttering intelligible; rarely
did his wife catch half-a-dozen consecutive words
from those broken sentences ; but once she heard
him say,

The cage  the cage again  iron bars  like a
wild beast !"

And now that absent and cloudy look which she
had seen in her husband's face after the bad dream
was there often. She spoke to him sometimes, and
lie did not hear. She repeated the same question
twice or thrice, in her soft low voice, standing close
beside him, and he did not answer. There were
times when it was difficult to arouse him from that
deep abstraction ; and at such times the utter blankness
and solitude of her own life weighed upon her
like a dead weight, an almost unbearable burden.

What is to become of us both in all the long
years i core us ?" she thought despairingly. " Are
we to be always far apart  living in the same
house, spending all our days together, and yet
divided ?"

She had married before she was eighteen, and at
one-and-thirty was still in the bloom of womanhood,
younger than most women of that age ; for her life
bad been subject to none of those vicissitudes and
fevers which age women of the world. She had
never kept a secret from her husband, never trembled
at opening a milliner's account, or blushed at
the delivery of a surreptitious letter. The struggles
for preeminence, the social race in which some
women waste their energies and strain their nerves,
were unknown to her. She had lived at Enderby
Manor as the flowers lived, rejoicing in the air and
the sunshine, drinking out of a cup of life in which
there mingled no drop of poison. Thus it was that
not one Hue upon the transparent skin marked the
passage of a decade. The violet eyes had the limpid
purity, and the emotional lips had the tender carnation,
of girlhood. Mildred Greswold was as beautiful

at thirty-one as Mildred Fausset had been at
seventeen. And yet it seemed to her that life was
over, and that her husband had ceased to care for
her.

Many and many an hour in that lovely solitude
beside the lake she sat with hands loosely clasped
in her lap or above her head, with her books lying
forgotten at her feet  all the newest books that
librarians could send to tempt the jaded appetite of
the reader  and her eyes gazing vacantly over the
blue of the lake or towards the snow-peaks on the
horizon. Often in these silent musings she recalled
the past, and looked at the days that were gone as
at a picture.

She remembered just such an autumn as this,
a peerless autumn spent with her father at The Hook
spent for the most part on the river and in the
garden, the sunny days and moonlit nights being
far too lovely for any one to waste indoors. Her
seventeenth birthday was not long past. It was
just ten years since she had come home to that
house to find Fay had vanished from it, and to shed
bitter tears for the loss of ber companion. Never

since that time had she seen Fay's face. Her
questions had been met coldly or angrily by her
mother ; and even her father had answered her
with unsatisfactory brevity.

All she could learn was that Fay had been sent
to complete her education at a finishing-school at
Brussels.

At school ! 0, poor Fay ! I hope she is
happy."

'* She ought to be," Mrs. Fausset answered
peevishly. " The school is horridly expensive. I
saw one of the bills the other day. Simply enormous.
The girls are taken to the opera, and have all sorts
of absurd indulgences."

Still, it is only school, mother, not home,"
said Mildred compassionately.

This was two years after Fay had vanished. No
letter had ever come from her to Mildred, though
Mildred was able to write now, in her own sprawling
childish fashion, and would have been delighted
to answer any such letter. She had herself indited
various epistles to her friend, but had not succeeded
in getting them posted. They had drifted to the

west-paper basket, mute evidences of wasted affection.


As each holiday time came round the child
asked if Fay were coming home, always to receive
the same saddening negative.

One day, when she had been more urgent than
usual, Mrs. Fausset lost temper and answered
sharply,

No, she is not coming. She is never coming,
I don't like her, and I don't intend ever to have her
in any house of mine, so you may as well leave off
plaguing me about her."

But, mother, why don't you like her ?"

*' Never mind why. I don't like her. That is
enough for you to know."

But, mother, if she is father's daughter and my
sister, you ought to like her," pleaded Mildred, very
much in earnest.

"How dare you say that ! You must never say
it again  you are a naughty, cruel child to say such
things!" exclaimed Mrs. Fausset, beginning to cry,

Why naughty ? why cruel ? 0, mother !" and
Mildred cried too.

She clasped her arms round her mother's neck
and sobbed aloud.

Dear mother, indeed I'm not naughty," she
protested, " but Bell said Fay was papa's daughter.
Of course she's his daughter,' Bell said ; and if
she's father's daughter, she's my sister, and it's
wicked not to love one's sister. The psalm I was
learning yesterday says so, mother. ' Behold how
good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together
in unity !" And it means sisters just the
same. Miss Colville said, when I asked her; and I
do love Fay. I can't help loving her."

You must never speak her name again to me''
said Mrs. Fausset resolutely. " I shall leave off
loving you if you pester me about that odious
girl!"

Then wasn't it true what Bell said ?"

Of course not."

Mother, would it be wrong for papa to have a
daughter?" asked Mildred, perplexed by this mysterious
resentment for which she could understand no
cause,

'wrong ! It would be infamously

"Would God be angry?" asked the child, with
an awe-stricken look. " Would it be wicked ?"

"It would be the worst possible insult to me''
said Lord Castle-cornell's daughter, ignoring the
minor question.

After this Mildred refrained from all further
speech about the absent girl to her mother ; but
as the years went by she questioned her father
from time to time as to Fay's whereabouts.

She is very well off, my dear. You need not
make yourself unhappy about her. She is with a
very nice family, and has pleasant surroundings."

Shall I never see her again, father ?"

Never's a long day, Mildred. I'll take you to
see her by and by when there is an opportunity.
You see, it happens unfortunately that your mother
does not like her, so it is better she should not
come here. It would not be pleasant for her  or
for me."

He said this gravely, with a somewhat dejected
look, and Mildred felt somehow that even to him it
would be better to talk no more of her lost companion.


As the years went by Mrs. Fausset changed from
a woman of fashion to a nervous valetudinarian. It
was not that she loved pleasure less, but her beauty
and her health had both begun to dwindle and fade
at an age when other women are in their prime.
She fretted at the loss of her beauty  watched every
wrinkle, counted every gray hair, lamented over
every change in the delicate colouring which had
been her chief charm.

How pretty you are growing, Mildred !" she exclaimed
once, with a discontented air, when Mildred
was a tall slip of fourteen. " You are just what I
was at your age. And you will grow prettier everyday
until you are thirty, and then I daresay you will
begin to fade as I have done, and feel an old woman
as I do."

It seemed to her that her own charms dwindled
as her daughter grew. As the bud unfolded, the
flower faded. She felt almost as if Mildred had
robbed her of her beauty. She would not give up
the pleasures and excitement of society. She consulted
half-a-dozen fashionable physicians, and would
not obey one of them. They all prescribed the same

repulsive treatment  rest, early hours, country air,
with gentle exercise ; no parties, no excitement, no
strong tea.

Mrs. Fausset disobeyed them all, and from only
fancying herself ill grew to he really ill ; and from
chronic lassitude developed organic disease of the
heart.

She lingered nearly two years, a confirmed invalid,
suffering a good deal, and giving other people
a great deal of trouble. She died soon after Mildred's
sixteenth birthday, and on her death-bed she confided
freely in her daughter, who had attended upon her
devotedly all through her illness, neglecting everything
else in the world for her mother's sake.

You are old enough to understand things that
must once have seemed very mysterious to you,
Mildred," said Mrs. Fausset, lying half-hidden in
the shadow of guipure bed-curtains, with her daughter's
hand clasped in hers, perhaps forgetting how
young that daughter was in her own yearning for
sympathy. " You couldn't make out why I disliked
that horrid girl so much, could you ?"

"No, indeed, mother."

I hated her because she was your father's
daughter, Mildred  his natural daughter ; the child
of some woman who was not his wife. You are old
enough now to know what that means. You were
reading The Heart of Midlothian to me last week.
You know, Mildred ?"

Yes, Mildred knew. She hung her head at
the memory of that sad story, and at the thought
that her father might have sinned like George
Staunton.

Yes, Mildred, she was the child of some woman
he loved before he married me. He must have been
desperately in love with the woman, or he would
never have brought her daughter into my house.
It was the greatest insult he could offer to me."

'' Was it, mother ?"

Was it ? Why, of course it was. How stupid
you are, child !" exclaimed the invalid peevishly, and
the feverish hand grew hotter as she talked.

Mildred blushed crimson at the thought of this
story of shame. Poor Fay ! poor, unhappy Fay !
And yet her strong common sense told her that there
were two sides to the question.

"It was not Fay's fault, mother," she said
gently. " No one could blame Fay, or be angry
with her. And if the  wicked woman was dead,
and father had repented, and was sorry, was it
very wrong for him to bring my sister home to us ?"

Don't call her your sister !" exclaimed Mrs.
Fausset, with a feeble scream of angry alarm ; " she
is not your sister  she is no relation  she is nothing
to you. It was an insult to bring her across my
threshold. You must be very stupid, or you must
care very little for me, if you can't understand that.
His conduct proved that he had cared for that low,
common woman  Fay's mother  more than ever he
cared for me ; perhaps he thought her prettier than
me," said the invalid in hysterical parenthesis, "and
I have never known a happy hour since."

0, mamma dear, not in all the years when
you used to wear such lovely gowns, and go to so
many parties ?" protested the voice of common sense.

I only craved for excitement because I was
miserable at heart. I don't think you can half understand
a wife's feelings, Mildred, or you wouldn't
say such foolish things, I wanted you to know this

before my death. I want you to remember it always,
and if you meet that odious girl avoid her as you
would a pestilence. If your father should attempt
to bring her here, or to Parchment Street, after I am
gone  "

"He will not, mother. He will respect your
wishes too much  he will be too sorry," exclaimed
Mildred, bending down to kiss the hot, dry hand,
and moistening it with her tears.

The year of mourning that began soon after this
conversation was a very quiet interval for father and
daughter. They travelled a little, spent six months
in Leipsic, where Mildred studied the piano under
the most approved masters, a couple of months in
Paris, where her father showed her all the lions ina
tranquil, leisurely way that was very pleasant;
and then they went down to The Hook, and lived
there in happy idleness on the river and in the
gardens all through a long and lovely summer.

Both were saddened at the sight of an empty
chair  one sacred corner in all the prettiest rooms
where Maud Fausset had been wont to sit, a

graceful languid figure, robed in white, or some pale
delicate hue even more beautiful than white in contrast
with the background of palms and flowers,
Japanese screen or Indian curtain. How pretty she
had looked sitting there, with books and scent-bottles,
and dainty satin-lined basket full of some
light frivolous work, which progressed by stages of
half-a-dozen stitches a day ! Her fans, her Tennyson,
her palms, and perfumes  all had savoured of
her own fragile bright-coloured loveliness. She was
gone ; and father and daughter were alone together
deeply attached to each other, yet with a secret
between them, a secret which made a darkening
shadow across the lives of both.

Whenever John Fausset wore a look of troubled
thought Mildred fancied he was brooding upon the
past, thinking of that erring woman who had borne
him a child, the child he had tried to fuse into his
own family, and to whom her own childish heart had
yearned as to a sister.

'* It must have been instinct that made me love
her," she said to herself; and then she would wonder
idly what the fair sinner who had been Fay's mother

was like, and whether her father had really cared
more for that frail woman than for his lawful wife.

Poor pretty mamma ! he seemed to doat upon
her," thought Mildred. "I cannot imagine his
ever having loved any one so well. I cannot imagine
his ever having cared for any other woman in this
world."

The formless image of that unknown woman
haunted the girl's imagination. She appeared sometimes
with one aspect, sometimes another  darkly
beautiful, of Oriental type, like Scott's Rebecca, or
fair and lowly-born like Effie Deans  poor fragile
Effie, fated to fall at the first temptation. Poetry
and fiction were full of suggestions about that
unknown influence in her father's life; but every
thought of the past ended in a sigh of pity for that
fair wife whose domestic happiness had been clouded
over by that half-discovered mystery.

Never a word did she breathe to her father upon
this forbidden subject ; never a word to Bell, who
was still at the head of affairs in both Mr. Fausset's
houses, and who looked like a grim and stony repository
of family secrets.

VOL. I. L

Mildred had been motherless for a year when that
new love began to grow which was to be stronger and
closer than the love of mother or father, and which
was to take possession of her life hereafter and transplant
her to a new soil.

How well she remembered that summer afternoon
on which she and George Greswold met for
the first time !  she a girl of seventeen, fresh, simpleminded,
untainted by that life of fashion and frivolity
which she had seen only from the outside, looking
on as a child at the follies of men and women  he
her senior by thirteen years, and serious beyond his
age. Her father and his father had been companions
at the University, as undergraduates, with full purses
and a mutual delight in fox-hunting and tandem-driving
; and it was this old Oxford friendship which
was the cause of George Greswold's appearance at

The Hook on that particular summer afternoon. Mr.
Fausset had met him on a house-boat at Henley
Eegatta, had been moved by the memory of the past
on discovering that Greswold was the son of George
Kansome of Magdalen, and had brought his friend's
son home to introduce to his daughter. It was not
altogether without ulterior thought, perhaps, that he
introduced George Greswold into his home. He
had a theory that the young men of this latter day
were for the most part a weak-kneed and degenerate
race ; and it had seemed to him that this tall,
broad-shouldered young man with the marked features,
dark eyes, and powerful brow was of a stronger
type than the average bachelor.

"A pity that he is rather too old for Mildred,"
he said to himself, supposing that his daughter
would hardly feel interested in a man who was more
than five-and-twenty.

Mildred could recall his face as she saw it for
the first time, to-day in her desolation, sitting idly
beside the lake, while the rhythmical beat of the
paddle-wheels died away in the distance. That
grave dark face impressed her at once with a sense

of power. She did not think the stranger hand-come,
or fascinating, or aristocratic, or elegant ; but
she thought of him a great deal, and she was silent
and shy in his presence, let him come as often as he
might.

He was in mourning for his mother, to whom he
had been deeply attached, and who had died within
the last three months, leaving him Enderby Manor
and a large fortune. His home life had not been
happy. There had been an antagonism between him
and his father from his boyhood upwards, and he
had shaken the dust of the paternal house off his
feet, and had left England to wander aimlessly,
living on a small income allowed him by his mother,
and making a little money by literature. He was a
second son, a person of no importance, except to
the mother, who doted upon him.

Happily for this younger son his mother was a
woman of fortune, and on her death George Ransome
inherited Enderby Manor, the old house in
which generations of Griswold had come and gone
since Dutch William was King of England. There
had been a much older house pulled down to make

room for that red brick mansion, and the Griswold
had been lords of the soil since the Wars of the
Roses  red-rose to the heart's core, and loyal to an
unfortunate king, whether Plantagenet, Tudor, or
Stuart.

By the conditions of his mother's will, George
Ransome assumed her family name and arms, and
became George Ransome Greswold in all legal
documents henceforward; but he signed himself
George Greswold, and was known to his friends by
that name. He had not loved his father nor his
father's race.

He came to The Hook often in that glorious
summer weather. At the first he was grave and
silent, and seemed oppressed by sad memories ; but
this seemed natural in one who had so lately lost
a beloved parent. Gradually the ice melted, and his
manner brightened. He came without being bidden.
He contrived to make himself, as it were, a member
of the family, whose appearance surprised nobody.
He bought a steam-launch, which was always at Mr.
Fausset's disposal, and Miss Fausset went everywhere
with her father. She recalled those sunlit

days now, "with every impression of the moment ;
the ever-growing sense of happiness ; the silent
delight in knowing herself beloved; the deepening
reverence for the man who loved her ; the limitless
faith in his power of heart and brain ; the confiding
love which felt a protection in the very sound of his
voice. Yes, those had been happy days  the rosy
dawning of a great joy that was to last until the
grave, Mildred Fausset had thought ; and now, after
thirteen years of wedded love, they had drifted apart.
Sorrow, which should have drawn them nearer together,
had served only to divide them.

0, my lamb, if you could know in your heavenly
home how much your loss has cost us !"
thought the mother, with the image of that beloved
child before her eyes.

There had been a gloomy reserve in George
Greswold's grief which had held his wife at a distance,
and had wounded her sorrowful heart. He
was selfish in his sorrow, forgetting that her loss
was as great as his. He had bowed his head before
inexorable Fate, had sat down in dust and ashes, and
brooded over his bereavement, solitary, despairing.

If he did not curse God in his anguish, it was
because early teaching still prevailed, and the habits
of thought he had learned in childhood were not
lightly to be flung off. Upon one side of his
character he was a Pagan, seeing in this affliction
the hand of Nemesis, the blind Avenger.

They left Switzerland in the late autumn, and
wintered in Vienna, where Mr. Greswold gave himself
up to study, and where neither he nor his wife
took any part in the gaieties of the capital. Here
they lived until the spring, and then, even in the
depths of his gloom, a yearning came upon George
Greswold to see the home of his race, the manor
which he had loved as if it were a living thing.

Mildred, do you think you could bear to be in
the old home again ?" he asked his wife suddenly,
one morning at breakfast.

I could bear anything better than the life we
lead here," she answered, her eyes filling with tears.

We will go back, then  yes, even if it is only
to look upon our daughter's grave."

They went back to England and to Enderby
Manor within a week after that conversation. They

arrived at Romsey Station one bright May afternoon,
and found the gray horses waiting to carry them to
the old house. How sad and strange it seemed to
be coming home without Lola ! She had always
been their companion in such journeys, and her
eager face and glad young voice, on the alert to
recognise the first familiar points of the landscape,
hill-top, or tree, or cottage that indicated home,
had given an air of gaiety to every-day life.

The old horses took them back to the Manor,
but not the old coachman. A great change in the
household had come about after Lola's funeral.
George Greswold had been merciless to those servants
whose carelessness had brought about that
great calamity, which made seven new graves in the
churchyard before all was done. He dismissed his
bailiff, Mrs. Wadman and her husband, an under-dairymaid
and a cowman, and his housekeeper, all
of whom he considered accountable for the use of
that foul water from the old well  accountable, inasmuch
as they had given him no notice of the evil,
and had exercised no care or common sense in their
management of the dairy. These he dismissed

sternly, and that party feeling which rules among
servants took this severity amiss, and several other
members of the household gave warning.

"Let it be a clean sweep, then," said Mr. Griswold
to Bell, who announced the falling-away of his
old servants. " Let there be none of the old faces
here when we come back next year  except yours.
There will be plenty of time for you to get new
people."

A clean sweep " suited Bell's temper admirably.
To engage new servants who should owe their
places to her, and bow themselves down before her,
was a delight to the old Irishwoman.

Thus it was that all things had a strange aspect
when Mildred Greswold reentered her old home.
Even the rooms had a different air. The new
servants had arranged the furniture upon new lines,
not knowing that old order which had been a part
of daily life.

Let us go and look at her rooms first," said
Mildred softly ; and husband and wife went silently
to the rooms in the south wing  the octagon-room
with its dwarf bookcases and bright bindings, its

proof-engravings after Landseer  pictures chosen
by Lola herself. Here nothing was changed.
Bell's own hands had kept all things in order.
No unfamiliar touch had disturbed the relics of
the dead.

Mrs. Greswold stayed in that once happy scene
for nearly an hour. It was hard to realise that she
and her daughter were never to be together again,
they who had been almost inseparable  who had
sat side by side by yonder window or yonder hearth
in all the changes of the seasons. There was the
piano at which they had played and sung together.
The music-stand still contained the prettily-bound
volumes  sonatas by Hummel and Clement 
easy duets by Mozart, national melodies, Volks-
Lieder. In music the child had been in advance of
her years. With the mother music was a passion,
and she had imbued her daughter with her own
tastes in all things. The child's nature had been
a carrying on and completing of the mother's
character, a development of all the mother's gifts.

She was gone, and the mother's life seemed
desolate and empty  the future a blank. Never in

lier life had she so much needed her husband's love
active, considerate, sympathetic  and yet never
had he seemed so far apart from her. It was not
that he was unkind or neglectful, it was only that
his heart made no movement towards hers ; he
was not in sympathy with her. He had wrapped
himself in his grief as in a mantle ; he stood aloof
from her, and seemed never to have understood that
her sorrow was as great as his own.

He left her on the threshold of Lola's room. It
might he that he could not endure the sight of
those things which she had looked at weeping, in an
ecstasy of grief. To her that agony of touch and
memory, the aspect of things that belonged to the
past, seemed to bring her lost child nearer to her 
it was as if she stretched her hands across the gulf
and touched those vanished hands.

Poor piano !" she sighed ; " poor piano, that
she loved."

She touched the keys softly, playing the opening
bars of La ci dare la mano. It was the first
melody they had played together, mother and child
arranged easily as a duet. Later they had sung

it together, the girl's voice clear as a bird's, and
seeming to need training no more than a bird's
voice. These things had been, and were allover.


What shall I do with my life ?" cried the
mother despairingly ; " what shall I do with all the
days to come  now she is gone ?"

She left those rooms at last, locking the doors
behind her, and went out into the garden. The
grand old cedars cast their broad shadows on the
lawn. The rustic chairs and tables were there, as
in the days gone by, when that velvet turf under
the cedars had been Mrs. Greswold's summer
parlour. Would she sit there ever again ? she
wondered : could she endure to sit there without
Lola?

There was a private way from the Manor gardens
into the churchyard, a short cut to church by which
mother and daughter had gone twice on every
Sunday ever since Lola was old enough to know
what Sunday meant. She went by this path in the
evening stillness to visit Lola's grave.

She gathered a few rosebuds as she went.

"Flowers for my blighted flower," she murmured
softly.

All was still and solemn in the old churchyard
shadowed by sombre yews  a churchyard of irregular
levels and moss-grown monuments enclosed by rusty
iron railings, and humbler headstones of crumbling
stone covered over with an orange-coloured lichen
which was like vegetable rust.

The names on these were for the most part
illegible, the lettering of a fashion that has passed
away ; but here and there a brand-new stone perked
itself up among these old memorials with an assertive
statement about the dead.

Lola's grave was marked by a large white marble
cross, carved in alto relievo on the level slab. The
inscription was of the simplest :

"Laura, the only child of George and Mildred
Greswold, aged twelve."

There were no words of promise or of consolation
upon the stone.

On one side of the grave there was a large
mountain-ash, whose white blossoms and delicate
leaves made a kind of temple above the marble

slab ; on the other, an ancient yew cast its denser
shade. Mildred knelt down in the shadow, and let
her head droop over the cold stone. There was a
skylark singing in the blue vault high above the
old Norman tower  a carol of joy and glad young
life, as it seemed to Mildred, sitting in the dust.
What a mockery that joyousness of spring-time and
Nature seemed !

She knew not how long she had knelt there in
silent grief when the branches rustled suddenly, as
if a strong arm had parted them, and a man flung
himself down heavily upon a turf-covered mound 
a neglected, nameless grave  beside Lola's monument.
She did not stir from her kneeling attitude,
or lift her head to look at the new-comer, knowing
that the mourner was her husband. She had heard
his footsteps approaching, heavy and slow in the
stillness of the place.

The trunk of the tree hid her from that other
mourner as she knelt there. He thought himself
alone; and, in the abandonment of that fancied
solitude, he groaned aloud, as Job may have groaned,
sitting among ashes.

"Judgment !" he cried, * judgment !" and then,
after an interval of silence, he cried again, "judgment!"


That one word, so repeated, seemed to freeze all
the blood in her veins. What did it mean, that
exceeding bitter cry,

*' Judgment !"

THE FACE IN THE CHURCH.

Two montis had gone since that first visit to Lola's
grave, when the husband and wife had knelt so near
each other, and yet so far apart in the infinite
mystery of human consciousness ; he with his secret
thoughts and secret woes, which she had never
fathomed. He, unaware of her neighbourhood ;
she, chilled by a vague suspicion and sense of
estrangement which had been growing upon her
ever since her daughter's death.

It was summer again, the ripe full-blown summer
of mid-July. The awful anniversary of their bereavement
had passed in silence and prayer. All
things at Enderby looked as they had looked in the
years that were gone, except the faces of the servants,
which were for the most part strange. That change
of the household made a great change in life to
people so conservative as George Greswold and his

wife ; and the old home seemed so much the less
like home because of that change. The Squire of
Enderby felt that his popularity was lessened in the
village for which he had done so much. His severe
dealing with the offenders had pleased nobody, not
even the sufferers from the epidemic, whose losses
he had avenged. He had shown himself implacable ;
and there were many who said he had been unjust.

It was hard upon Wadman and his wife to be
turned off after twenty sears' faithful service," said
one of the villagers. " The Squire may go a long
way before he'll get as good a bailiff as Thomas,"
said another.

For the first time since he had inherited the
estate George Greswold felt himself surrounded by
an atmosphere of discontent, and even dislike. His
tenants seemed afraid of him, and were reticent and
moody when he talked to them, which he did much
seldom than of old, making a great effort in order
to appear interested in their affairs.

Mildred's life during those summer weeks, while
the roses were opening and all the flowers succeeding
each other in a procession of loveliness, had drifted

VOL. I. M

along like a slow dull stream that crawls through a
desolate swamp. There was neither beauty nor
colour in her existence ; there was a sense of vacuity,
an aching void. Nothing to hope for, nothing to
look back upon.

She did not abandon herself slavishly to her
sorrow. She tried to resume the life of duty which
had once been so full of sweetness, so rich in its
rewards for every service. She went about among
the cottagers as of old ; she visited the shabby gentilities
on the fringe of the market town, the
annuitants and struggling families, the poor widows
and elderly spinsters, who had quite as much need
of help as the cottagers, and whom it had always
been her delight to encourage and sustain with
friendliness and sympathy, as well as with delicate
benefactions, gifts that never humiliated the recipient.
She took up the thread of her work in the parish
schools ; she resumed her old interest in the church
services and decorations, in the inevitable charity
bazaar or organ-fund concert. She played her part
in the parish so well that people began to say,

Mrs. Greswold is getting over her loss."

In him the shock had left a deeper mark. His
whole aspect was changed. He looked ten years
older than before the coming of sorrow; and
though people loved her better, they pitied him
more.

She has more occupations and pursuits to interest
her," said Mr. Rollinson, the curate. " She
is devoted to music, and that employs her mind."

Yes, music was her passion ; but in these days
of mourning even music was allied to pain. Every
melody she played, every song she sang, recalled the
child whose appreciation of that divine art had been
far beyond her years. They had sung and played
together. Often singing alone in the summer dusk,
in that corner of the long drawing-room, where
Lola's babyish chair still stood, she had started,
fancying she heard that other voice mingling with
her own  the sweet clear tones which had sounded
seraphic even upon earth.

0, was she with the angels now ; or was it all a
fable, that fond vision of a fairer world and an
angelic choir, singing before the great white throne ?
To have lost such a child was almost to believe in

the world of seraphim and cherubim, of angels and
purified spirits. Where else could she be ?

Husband and wife lived together, side by side, ina
sad communion that seemed to lack the spirit of
unity. The outward semblance of confiding affection
was there, but there was something wanting. He
was very good to her  as kind, as attentive, and considerate
as in their first year of marriage ; and yet
there was something wanting.

She remembered what he had been when he
came as a stranger to The Hook"; and it seemed to
her as if the glass of Time had been turned backwards
for fourteen years, and that he was again just
as he had been in those early days, when she had
watched him, curiously interested in his character as
in a mystery. He was too grave for a man of his
years  and with a shade of gloom upon him that
hinted at a more than common grief. He had been
subject to lapses of abstraction, as if his mind had
slipped back to some unhappy past. It was only
when he had fallen in love and was wholly devoted
to her that the shadow passed away, and he began
to feel the joyousness of life and the fervour of

ardent hopes. Then the old character dropped off
him like the serpent's slough, and he became as
young as the youngest  boyish even in his frank
felicity.

This memory of her first impressions about him
was so strong with her that she could not help
speaking of it one evening after dinner when she
had been playing one of Beethoven's grandest
adagios to him, and they were sitting in silence,
she by the piano, he far away by an open window on
a level with the shadowy lawn, where the great cedars
rose black against the pale gray sky.

George, do you remember my playing that
adagio to you for the first time ?"

**I remember you better than Beethoven. I
could scarcely think of the music in those days
for thinking so much of you."

** Ah, but the first time you heard me play that
adagio was before you had begun to care for me 
before you had cast your slough."

What do you mean ?"

Before you had come out of your cloud of sad
memories. When first you came to us you lived

only in the past. I doubt if you were more than
half-conscious of our existence."

She could only distinguish his profile faintly defined
against the evening gray as he sat beside the
window. Had she seen the expression of his face,
its look of infinite pain, she would hardly have pursued
the subject.

"I had but lately lost my mother," he said
gravely.

"Ah, but that was a grief which you did not
hide from us. You did not shrink from our sympathy
there. There was some other trouble, something
that belonged to a remoter past, over which
you brooded in secret. Yes, George, I know you
had some secrets then  that divided us  and 
and  " falteringly, with tears in her voice  '*I
think those old secrets are keeping us asunder now,
when our grief should draw us nearer together."

She had left her place by the piano, and had
gone to him as she spoke, and now she was on her
knees beside him, clinging to him tearfully.

George, trust me, love me," she pleaded.

*' My beloved, do I net love you ?" he protested

passionately, clasping her in his arms, kissing away
her tears, soothing her as if she had been a child.
"My dearest and best, from the first hour I
awakened to a new life in your love my truth has
never wavered, my heart has never known change."

And yet you are changed  since our darling
went  terribly changed."

** Do you wonder that I grieve for her ?"

No, but you grieve apart  you hold yourself
aloof from me."

If I do it is because I do not want you to share
my burden, Mildred. Your sorrow may be cured,
perhaps  mine never can be. Time may be merciful
to you  for me time can do nothing."

"Dearest, what hope can there be for me that
you do not share ?  the Christian's hope of meeting
our loved one hereafter. I have no other hope."

I hardly know if I have that hope," he answered
slowly, with deepest despondency.

And yet you are a Christian."

If to endeavour to follow Christ, the Teacher
and Friend of humanity, is to be a Christian  yes."

"And you believe in the world to come ?"

I try SO to believe, Mildred. I try. Faith in
the Kingdom of Heaven does not come easily to a
man whose life has been ruled by the inexorable
Fates. Not a word, darling; let us not talk of
these things. "We know no more than Socrates
knew in his dungeon ; no more than Roger Bacon
knew in his old age  unheard, buried, forgotten.
Never doubt my love, dearest. That is changeless.
You and Lola were the sunshine of my life. You
shall be my sunshine henceforward. I have been
selfish in brooding over my sorrow ; but it is the
habit of my mind to grieve in silence. Forgive me,
dear wife ; forgive me."

He clasped her in his arms, and again she felt
assured of her husband's affection ; but she knew all
the same that there was some sorrow in his past
life which he had kept hidden from her, which he
meant her never to know.

Many a time in their happy married life she had
tried to lead him to talk of his boyhood and youth.
About his days at Eton and Oxford he was frank
enough, but he was curiously reticent about his
home life and about those years which he had spent

travelling over the Continent after he had left his
father's house for good.

I was not happy at home, Mildred," he told
her one day. " My father and I did not get on
together, as the phrase goes. He was very fond of
my elder brother. They had the same way of thinking
about most things. Randolph's marriage pleased
my father, and he looked to Randolph to strengthen
the position of our family, which had been considerably
reduced by his own extravagance. He would
have liked my mother's estate to have gone to the
elder son ; but she had full disposing power, and
she made me her heir. This set my father against
me, and there came a time when, dearly as I loved
my mother, I found that I could no longer live at
home. I went out into the world, a lonely man ;
and I only came back to the old home after my
father's death."

This was the fullest account of his family history
that George Greswold had given his wife. From
his reserve in speaking of his father she divined that
the balance of wrong had been upon the side of the
parent rather than of the son. Had a man of her

husband's temper been the sinner he would have
frankly confessed his errors. Of his mother he
spoke with undeviating love ; and he seemed to
have been on friendly terms with his brother.

On the morning after that tearful talk in the
twilight Mr. Greswold startled his wife from a pensive
reverie as they sat at breakfast in the garden.
They always breakfasted out of doors on fine summer
mornings. They had made no change in old customs
since their return, as some mourners might
have done, hoping to blunt the keen edge of memory
by an alteration in the details of life. Both knew
too well how futile any such alteration of their surroundings
would be. They remembered Lola no
more vividly at Enderby than they had remembered
her in Switzerland.

''My dearest, I have been thinking of you incessantly
since last night, and of the loneliness of
your life," George Greswold began seriously, as he
sat in a low basket-chair, sipping his coffee, with his
favourite setter Kassandra at his feet ; an Irish dog
that had been famous for feather in days gone by,
but who had insinuated herself into the family affections,

and had got herself accepted as a household
companion to the ruin of her sporting qualities.
Kassandra went no more with the guns. Her place
was the drawing-room or the lawn.

I can never he lonely, George, while I have
you. There is no other company I can ever care
about henceforward."

"Let me always be the first, dear; but you
should have female companionship of some kind.
Our house is empty and voiceless. There should
be some young voice  some young footstep  "

Do you mean that I ought to hire a girl to run
up and down stairs, and laugh in the corridors, as
Lola used ? 0, George, how can you !" exclaimed
Mildred, beginning to cry.

No, no, dear. I had no such thought in my
mind. I was thinking of Randolph's daughter.
You seemed to like her when she and her sister
were here two years ago."

Yes, she was a nice, bright girl then, and my
darling was pleased with her. How merry they
were together, playing battledore and shuttlecock
over there by the yew hedge ! Don't ask me ever

to see that girl again, George. It would make my
heart ache."

*' I am sorry to hear you say that, Mildred. I
was going to ask you to have her here on a good long
visit. Now that Kosalind is married, Pamela has
no home of her own. Rosalind and her husbandlike
having her occasionally  for a month or six
weeks at a time ; but Sir Henry Montfort's house
is not Pamela's home. She would soon begin to
feel herself an incubus. The Mountfords are very
fond of society, and just a little worldly. They
would soon be tired of a girl whose presence was no
direct advantage. I have been thinking that with
us Pamela would never be in the way. You need
not see too much of her in this big house. There
would be plenty of room for her to carry on her own
pursuits and amusements without boring you ; and
when you wanted her she would be at hand, a bright
companionable girl, who would grow fonder of you
every day."

"I could not endure her fondness. I could not
endure any girl's companionship. Her presence
would only remind me of my loss."

"Dearest, I thought we were both agreed that,
as nothing can make us forget our darling, it cannot
matter to us how often we are reminded of
her."

Yes, by silent, unreasoning things like Cassandra,"
touching the dog's tawny head with a caressing
hand ; "or the garden  the trees and flowers she
loved  her books  her piano. Those things may
remind us of our darling without hurting us. But
to hear a girl's voice calling me  as she used to call
me from the garden on summer mornings to hear
a girl's laughter  "

Yes, it would be painful, love, at first. I can
understand that, Mildred. But if you can benefit
an orphan girl by having her here, I know your kind
heart will not refuse. Let her come for a few
weeks, and if her presence pains you she shall stay
no longer. She shall not be invited again. I would
not ask you to receive a stranger, but my brother's
daughter is near me in blood."

Let her come, George," said Mildred impulsively
; "I am very selfish  thinking only of my
own feelings. Let her come. How strangely this

talk of ours reminds me of something that happened
when I was a child !"

What was that, Mildred ?"

"You have heard me speak of Fay, my playfellow
?"

"Yes."

I remember the evening my father asked
mamma to let her come to us. It seemed just now
as if you were using his very words ; and yet all
things were different."

Mildred had told him very little about that childish
sorrow of hers. She had shrunk from any
allusion to the girl whose existence bore witness
against her father. She, too, fond and frank as she
was, had kept her own counsel, had borne the
burden of a secret.

Yes, I have heard you speak of the girl you
called Fay, and of whom you must have been very
fond, for the tears came into your eyes when you
mentioned her. Did she live with you long ?"

0, no, a very short time ! She was sent to
school  to a finishing-school at Brussels."

"Brussels !" he repeated, with a look of surprise.

Yes. Do you know anything about Brussels
schools ?"

"Nothing personally. I have heard of girls
educated there. And what became of your playfellow
after the Brussels school ?"

** I never heard."

And you never tried to find out ?"

Yes, I asked my mother ; but there was a prejudice
in her mind against poor Fay. I would
rather not talk about her, George."

Her vivid blush, her evident confusion, perplexed
her husband. There was some kind of mystery, it
seemed  some family trouble in the background, or
Mildred, who was all candour, would have spoken
more freely.

Then may I really invite Pamela ?" he asked,
after a brief silence, during which he had responded
to the endearments of Kassandra, too well fed to
have any design upon the dainties on the breakfast-table,
and only asking to be loved.

*'I will write to her myself, George. Where is
she r

** Not very far ofi". She is at Cowes with the

Mountfords, on board Sir Henry's yacht the Gadfly.
You had better send your letter to the post-office,
marked Gadfly."

The invitation was despatched by the first post ;
Miss Greswold was asked to come to the Manor as
soon as she liked, and to stay till the autumn.

The next day was Sunday, and Mr. and Mrs.
Greswold went to church together by the path that
led them within a few paces of Lola's grave.

For the first time since her daughter's death
Mildred had put on a light gown. Till to-day she
had worn only black. This morning she came into
the vivid sunlight in a pale gray gown of soft lustreless
silk, and a neat little gray straw bonnet, which
set ofi" the fairness of her skin and the sheen of her
golden hair. The simple fashion of her gown became
her tall, slim figure, which had lost none of
the grace of girlhood. She was the prettiest and
most distinguished-looking woman in Enderby
Church, although there were more county families
represented there upon that particular Sunday than
are often to be seen in a village church.

The Manor House pew was on one side of the

chancel, and commanded a full view of the nave.
The first lesson was long, and while it was being
read Mildred's eyes wandered idly along the faces in
the nave, recognising countenances that had been
familiar to her ever since her marriage, until that
wandering gaze stopped suddenly, arrested by a face
that was strange.

She saw this strange face between other faces 
as it were in a cleft in the block of people. She
saw it at the end of a vista, with the sunlight from
the chancel window full upon it  a face that impressed
her as no face of a stranger had ever done
before.

It looked like the face of Judas, she thought ;
and then in the next moment was ashamed of her
fancy.

*rit is only the colouring, and the effect of the
light upon it," she told herself. "I am not so
weak as to cherish the vulgar prejudice against that
coloured hair."

That coloured hair " was of the colour which a
man's enemies call red and his friends auburn or
chestnut. It was of that ruddy brown which Titian

VOL. I. N

has immortalised in more than one Venus, and
without which Potiphar's wife would be a nonentity.


The stranger wore a small pointed beard of this
famous colouring. His eyes were of a reddish
brown, large, and luminous, his eyebrows strongly
arched ; his nose was a small aquiline ; his brow
was wide and lofty, slightly bald in front. His
mouth was the only obviously objectionable feature.
The lips were finely moulded, from a Greek sculptor's
standpoint, and would have done for a Greek
Bacchus, but the expression was at once crafty and
sensual. The auburn moustache served to accentuate
rather than to conceal that repellant expression.
Mildred looked at him presently as he stood up for
the Te Deem,

He was tall, for she saw his head well above intervening
heads. He looked about five-and-thirty.
He had the air of being a gentleman.

'* Whoever he is, I hope I shall never see him
again," thought Mildred.

THERE IS ALWAYS THE SKELETON.

When Mr. and Mrs. Greswold left the church, the
stranger was taking his place in the Hillersdon
wagonette, a capacious vehicle, drawn by a pair of
upstanding black-brown horses, set off by servants
in smart liveries of dark brown and gold.

Mildred gave a sigh of relief. If the stranger
was a visitor at Riverdale it was not likely that he
would stay long in the neighbourhood, or be seen
again for years to come. The guests at Riverdale
were generally birds of passage; and the same
faces seldom appeared there twice. Mr. and Mrs.
Hillersdon of Riverdale were famous for their
extensive circle, and famous for bringing new people
into the county. Some of their neighbours said it
was Mr. Hillersdon who brought the people there,
and that Mrs. Hillersdon had nothing to do with
the visiting list ; others declared that husband and
wife were equally fickle and equally frivolous.

Coverdale was one of the finest houses within ten
miles of Komsey, and it was variously described by
the local gentry. It was called a delightful house,
or it was called a curious house, according to the
temper of the speaker. Its worst enemy could not
deny that it was a splendid house  spacious,
architectural, luxurious, with all the appendages of
wealth and dignity  nor could its worst enemy
deny its merit as one of the most hospitable houses
in the county.

Notwithstanding this splendour and lavish hospitality,
the local magnates did not go to Coverdale,
and the Hillersdons were not received in some
of the best houses. Tom Hillersdon was a large
landowner, a millionaire, and a man of good family ;
but Tom Hillersdon was considered to have stranded
himself in middle life by a marriage which in the
outer world was spoken of vaguely as " unfortunate,"
but which the straitlaced among his neighbours
considered fatal. No man who had so married
could hold up his head among his friends any more ;
no man who had so married could hope to have his
wife received in decent people's houses. In spite of

which opinion prevailing among Tom Hillersdon's
oldest friends Mrs. Hillersdon contrived to gather a
good many people round her, and some of them
the most distinguished in the land. She had
Cabinet Ministers, men of letters, and famous
painters among her guests. She had plenty of
women friends  of a sort : attractive women, intellectual
and enlightened women ; sober matrons,
bread-and-butter girls ; women who doated on Mrs.
Hillersdon, and, strange to say, had never heard her
history.

And yet Hillersdon's wife had a history scarcely
less famous than that of Cleopatra or Nell Wynne.
Louise Hillersdon was once Louise Lorraine, the
young adventuress whose Irish gray eyes had set
all London talking when the Great Exhibition of
'62 was still a monstrous iron skeleton, and when
South Kensington was in its infancy. Louise
Lorraine's extravagance, and Louise Lorraine's
devotees, from German princes and English
dukes downwards, had been town-talk. Her box
at the opera had been the cynosure of every
eye ; and Paris ran mad when she drove in

the Bois, or exhibited her diamonds in the Rue
Lepelletier; or supped in the small hours at the
Cafe de Paris, with the topmost strawberries in the
basket. Numerous and conflicting were the versions
of her early history  the more sensational chronicles
describing her as the Aphrodite of the gutter.
Some people declared that she could neither read
nor write, and could not stir without her amanuensis
at her elbow ; others affirmed that she spoke four
languages, and read a Greek play or a chapter of
Thucydides every night, with her feet on the
fender, while her maid brushed her hair. The
sober truth lay midway between these extremes.
She was the daughter of a doctor in a line regiment ;
she was eminently beautiful, very ignorant, and very
clever. She wrote an uneducated hand, never read
anything better than a sentimental novel, sang
prettily, and could accompany her songs on the
guitar with a good deal of dash and fire. To this
may be added that she was an adept in the art of
dress, had as much tact and finesse as a leader of
the old French noblesse, and more audacity than a
Parisian cocotte in the golden age of Cocotterie.

Such she was when Tom Hillersdon, Wiltshire
squire, and millionaire, swooped like an eagle upon
this fair dove, and bore her off to his eerie. There
was howling and gnashing of teeth among those
many admirers who were all thinking seriously
about making the lovely Louise a bond fide offer;
and it was felt in a certain set that Tom Millers
had done a valiant and victorious deed ; but
his country friends were of one accord in the
idea that Hillersdon had wrecked himself for ever.

The Squire's wife came to Riverdale, and established
herself there with as easy an air as if
she had been a duchess. She gave herself no
trouble about the county families. London was
near enough for the fair Louise, and she filled her
house  or Tom Hillersdon filled it  with relays of
visitors from the great city. Scarcely had she been
settled there a week when the local gentry were
startled at seeing her sail into church with one of
the most famous English statesmen in her train.
Upon the Sunday after she was attended by a great
painter and a well-known savant ; and besides these
she had a pew full of smaller fry  a lady novelist, a

fashionable actor, a celebrated Queen's Counsel, and
a county member.

'where does she get those men?" asked Lady
Marjorie Danefeld, the Conservative member's wife ;
*' surely they can't all be  reminiscences."

It had been supposed while the newly-wedded
couple were on their honeymoon that the lady's
arrival at Coverdale would inaugurate a reign of
profanity  that Sunday would be given over to
Bohemian society, cafe-chantant songs, champagne,
and cigarette-smoking. Great was the surprise of
the locality, therefore, when Mrs. Hillersdon appeared
in the Squire's pew on Sunday morning,
neatly dressed, demure, nay, with an aspect of more
than usual sanctity ; greater still the astonishment
when she reappeared in the afternoon, and listened
meekly to the catechising of the school-children and
to the baptism of a refractory baby ; greater even
yet when it was found that these pious practices
were continued, that she never missed a Saints-Day
service, that she had morning prayers for family and
household, and that she held meetings of an evangelical
character in her drawing-room  meetings at

which curates from outlying parishes gathered like a
flock of crows, and at which the excellence of the
tea and coffee, pound-cake and muffins, speedily
became known to the outside world.

Happily for Tom Hillersdon these pious tendencies
did not interfere with his amusements or the
pleasantness of his domestic life. Coverdale was
enlivened by a perennial supply of lively or interesting
people. Notoriety of some kind was a passport
to the Hillersdons' favour. It was an indication
that a man was beginning to make his mark when he
was asked to Coverdale. When he had made his
mark he might think twice about going. Riverdale
was the paradise of budding celebrities.

So to-day, seeing the stranger get into the Hill
wagonette, Mrs. Greswold opined that he
was a man who had made some kind of reputation.
He could not be an actor with that beard. He was
a painter, perhaps. She thought he looked like a
painter.

The wagonette was full of well-dressed women
and well-bred men, all with an essentially metropolitan
 or cosmopolitan  air. The eighteen-carat

stamp of " county " was obviously deficient. Mrs.
Hillersdon had her own carriage  a barouche 
which she shared with an elderly lady, who looked
as correct as if she had been a bishop's wife. She
was on bowing terms with Mrs. Greswold. They
had met at hunt-balls and charity bazaars, and at
various other functions from which the wife of a
local landowner can hardly be excluded  even when
she has a history.

Mildred thought no more of the auburn-haired
stranger after the wagonette had disappeared in a
cloud of summer-dust. She strolled slowly home
with her husband by a walk which they had been in
the habit of taking on fine Sundays after morning
service, but which they had never trodden together
since Lola's death. It was a round which skirted
the common, and took them past a good many of
the cottages, and their tenants had been wont to
loiter at their gates on fine Sundays, in the hope of
getting a passing word with the Squire and his wife.
There had been something patriarchal, or clannish,
in the feeling between landlord and tenant, labourer
and master, which can only prevail in a parish where

the chief landowner spends the greater part of his
life at home.

To-day every one was just as respectful as of old ;
curtsies were as low and tones as reverential ; but
George Greswold and his wife felt there was a difference,
all the same. A gulf had been cleft between
them and their people by last summer's calamity.
It was not the kindred of the dead in whom this
coolness was distinguishable. The bereaved seemed
drawn nearer to their Squire by an affliction which
had touched him too. But in Enderby parish there
was a bond of kindred which seemed to inter link the
whole population. There were not above three
family names in the village, and everybody was
everybody else's cousin, when not a nearer relative.
Thus, in dismissing his bailiff and dairy people, Mr.
Greswold had given umbrage to almost all his cottagers.
He was no longer regarded as a kind
master. A man who could dismiss a servant after
twenty years' faithful service was, in the estimation
of Enderby parish, a ruthless tyrant  a master whose
yoke galled every shoulder.

Him seemed to be so fond of we all," said

Luke Thomas, the village wheelwright, brother of
that John Thomas who had been Mr. Greswold's
bailiff, and who was now freeing his weird in
Canada ; " and yet offend he, and him can turn and
sack yer as if yer was a thief  sweep yer off his
premises like a handful o' rubbish. Faithful service
don't count with he."

George Greswold felt the change from friendly
gladness to cold civility. He could see the altered
expression in all those familiar faces. The only
sign of affection was from Mrs. Kainbow, standing at
her cottage gate in decent black, with sunken cheeks
worn pale by many tears. She burst out crying at
sight of Mildred Greswold, and clasped her hand ina
fervour of sympathy.

"0, to think of your sweet young lady, ma'am !
that you should lose her, as I lost my Polly !" she
sobbed ; and the two women wept together  sisters
in affliction.

You don't think we are to blame, do you, Mrs.
Rainbow ?" Mildred said gently.

*' No, no, indeed, ma'am. We all know it was
God's will. We must kiss the rod."

*' What fatalists these people are !" said Griswold,
as he and his wife walked homeward by the
sweet-smelling common, where the heather showed
purple here and there, and where the harebells were
beginning to dance upon the wind. " Yes, it is
God's will ; but the name of that God is Nemesis."

Husband and wife were almost silent during
luncheon. Both were depressed by that want of
friendliness in those who had been to them as familiar
friends. To have forfeited confidence and affection
was hard when they had done so much to merit
both. Mildred could but remember how she and
her golden-haired daughter had gone about amongst
those people, caring for all their needs, spiritual and
temporal, never approaching them from the standpoint
of superiority, but treating them verily as
friends. She recalled long autumn afternoons in the
village reading-room, when she and Lola had presided
over a bevy of matrons and elderly spinsters,
she reading aloud to them while they worked, Lola
threading needles to save elderly eyes, sewing on
buttons, indefatigable in giving help of all kinds to
those village sempstress. She had fancied that

those mothers' meetings, the story-books, and the
talk had brought them all into a bond of affectionate
sympathy ; and yet one act of stern justice seemed
to have cancelled all obligations.

Mr. Greswold lighted a cigar after lunch, and
went for a ramble in those extensive copses which
were one of the charms of Enderby Manor, miles
and miles of woodland walks, dark and cool in the
hottest day of summer  lonely footpaths where the
master of Enderby could think his own thoughts
without risk of coming face to face with any one in
that leafy solitude. The Enderby copses were
cherished rather for pleasure than for profit, and
were allowed to grow a good deal higher and a good
deal wilder and thicker than the young wood upon
neighbouring estates.

Mildred went to the drawing-room and to her
piano, after her husband her chief companion and
confidante now that Lola was gone. Music was her
passion  the only art that moved her deeply, and to
sit alone wandering from number to number of
Beethoven and Mozart, Bach or Mendelssohn, was
the very luxury of loneliness.

Adhering in all things to the rule that Sunday-was
not as other days, she had her library of sacred
music apart from other volumes, and it was sacred
music only which she played on Sundays. Her
repertoire was large, and she roamed at will among
the classic masters of the last two hundred years,
hut for sacred music Bach and Mozart were her
favourites.

She was playing a Gloria by the latter composer
when she heard a carriage drive past the windows,
and looked up just in time to catch a glimpse of a
profile that startled her with a sudden sense of
strangeness and familiarity. The carriage was a
light T-cart, driven by a groom in the Hillersdon
livery.

A visitor from Riverdale was a novelty, for,
although George Greswold and Tom Hillersdon were
friendly in the hunting-field, Riverdale and the
Manor were not on visiting terms. The visit was
for her husband, Mildred concluded, and she went
on playing.

The door was opened by the new footman, who
announced " Mr. Castellani."

Mrs. Greswold rose from the piano to find
herself face to face with the man whose countenance,
seen in the distance, in the light of the east window,
had reminded her of Judas. Seen as she saw him
now, in the softer light of the afternoon, standing
before her with a deprecating air in her own
drawing-room, the stranger looked altogether
different, and she thought he had a pleasing expression.


He was tall and slim, well dressed in a subdued
metropolitan style ; and he had an air of
distinction and elegance which would have marked
him anywhere as a creature apart from the common
herd. It was not an English manner. There
was a supple grace in his movements which suggested
a Southern origin. There was a pleading
look in the full brown eyes which suggested an
emotional temperament.

*' An Italian, no doubt," thought Mildred, taking
this Southern gracefulness in conjunction with the
Southern name.

She wondered on what pretence this stranger
had called, and what could be his motive for coming.

Mrs. Greswold, I have to apologise humbly for
presenting myself without having first sent you my
credentials and waited for your permission to call'*
he said, in very perfect English, with only the slightest
Milanese accent ; and then he handed Mrs. Griswold
an unsealed letter, which he had taken from
his breast-pocket.

She glanced at it hastily, not a little embarrassed
by the situation. The letter was from an intimate
friend, an amateur litterateur, who wrote graceful
sonnets and gave pleasant parties :

I need not excuse myself, my dear friend, for
making Mr. Castellani known to you in the flesh, as
I have no doubt he is already familiar to you in the
spirit. He is the anonymous author of Nepenthe, the
book that almost every one has been reading and
quite every one has been talking about this season.
Only the few can understand it ; but you are of
those few, and I feel assured your deepest feelings
have been stirred by that most exceptional work.
How delicious it must be with you among grown.

VOL. I. O

lanes and English meadows ! We are just rushing off
to a land of extinct volcanoes for my poor husband's
annual cure. A cons de coeur, Diana Tomlinson."

Pray sit down," said Mildred, as she finished
Lier gushing friend's note ; " my husband will be in
presently  I hope in time to see you."

Pardon me if, in all humility, I say it is you I
was especially anxious to see, to know, if it were
possible  delightful as it will be also to know Mr.
Greswold. It is with your name that my past
associations are interwoven."

'indeed ! How is that?"

' It is a long story, Mrs. Greswold, To explain
the association I must refer to the remote past. My
grandfather was in the silk trade, like your grandfather."


Mildred blushed ; the assertion came upon her
like an unpleasant surprise. It was a shock. That
great house of silk merchants from which her father's
wealth had been derived had hardly ever been mentioned
in her presence. Lord Castle-cornell's
daughter had never grown out of the idea that all

trade is odious, and her daughter had almost forgotten
that her father had ever been in trade.

Yes, when the house of Fausset was in its
infancy the house of Felix & Sons, silk manufacturers
and silk merchants, was one of the largest on
the hillside of old Lyons. My great-grandfather
was one of the richest men in Lyons, and he was
able to help the clever young Englishman, your
grandfather, who came into his house as corresponding
clerk, to perfect himself in the French language,
and to find out what the silk trade was like. He
had a small capital, and when he had learnt something
about the trade, he established himself near
St. Paul's Churchyard as a wholesale trader in a
very small way. He had no looms of his own in
those days ; and it was the great house of Felix,
and the credit given him by that house, which
enabled him to hold his own, and to make a fortune.
When your father began life the house of Felix was
on the wane. Your grandfather had established a
manufactory of his own at Lyons. Felix & Sons
had grown old-fashioned. They had forgotten to
march with the times. They had allowed themselves

to go to sleep ; and they were on the verge of
bankruptcy when your father came to their rescue
with a loan which enabled them to tide over their
difficulties. They had had a lesson, and they
profited by it. The house of Felix recovered its
ascendency, and the loan was repaid before your
father retired from business."

"I am not surprised to hear that my father was
generous. I should have been slow to believe that
he could have been ungrateful," said Mildred softly.

Your name is among my earliest recollections,"
pursued Castellani. ** My mother was educated at
a convent at Southampton, and she was very fond of
England and English people. The first journey I
can distinctly remember was a journey to London,
which occurred when I was ten years old. I remember
my father and mother talking about Mr.
Fausset. She had known him when she was a little
girl. He used to stay in her father's house when
he came to Lyons on business. She would like to
have seen him and his wife and daughter, for old
times' sake ; but she had been told that his wife was
a lady of rank, and that he had broken off all associations

with big trading career. She was too
diffident to intrude herself upon her father's old
ally. One day our carriage passed yours in the
Park. Yes, I saw you, a golden-haired child  yes,
madam, saw you with these eyes  and the vision has
stayed with me, a sunny remembrance of my own
childhood. I can see that fair child's face in this
room to-day."

"You should have seen my daughter," faltered
Mildred sadly.

You have a daughter ?" said the stranger
eagerly.

I had a daughter. She is gone. I only put
off my black gown yesterday ; but my heart and
mind will wear mourning for her till I go to my
grave."

Ah, madam, how deeply I sympathise with such
a grief !" murmured Castellani.

He had a voice of peculiar depth and beauty 
one of those rare voices whose every tone is music.
The pathos and compassion in those few commonplace
words moved Mildred to sudden tears. She
commanded herself with an effort.

"I am much interested in your reminiscences,"
she said, after a brief pause. "My father was very
dear to me. My mother came of an old Irish
family, and the Irish, as you know, are apt to be
over-proud of high birth. I had never heard my
father's commercial life spoken about until to-day.
I only knew him as an idle man, without business
cares of any kind, able to take life pleasantly. He
used to spend two or three months of every year
under this roof. It was a terrible blow to me when
we lost him six years ago, and I think my husband
mourned him almost as deeply as I did. But tell
me about your book. Are you really the author of
Nepenthe, that nameless author who has been so
much discussed?"

"And who has been identified with so many
distinguished people  Mr. Gladstone  Cardinal
Newman."

Mr. Swinburne  Mr. Browning. I have heard
all kinds of speculations. And is it really you ?"

Yes, it is I. To you I may plead guilty, since,
unfortunately, the authorship of Nepenthe is now le
secret de Polichinelle. "

"It is a  strange book," said Mildred. '* My
husband and I were both interested in it, and
impressed by it. But your book saddened us both.
You seem to believe in nothing."

"seems,' madam! nay, I know not 'seems;'
but perhaps I am not so bad as you think me. I
am of Hamlet's temper  inquiring rather than disbelieving.
To live is to doubt. And I own that I
have seen enough of this life to discover that the
richest gift Fate can give to man is the gift of
forgetfulness."

I cannot think that. I would not forget, even
if I could. It would be treason to forget the beloved
ones we have lost."

"Ah, Mrs. Greswold, most men have worse memories
than the memory of the dead. The wounds
we want healed are deeper than those made by
Death ; his scars we can afford to look upon. There
are wounds that have gone deeper, and that leave an
uglier mark."

There was a pause. Mr. Castellani made na
sign of departure. He evidently intended to wait
for the Squire's return. Through the open windows

of a second drawing-room, divided from the first by
an archway, they could see the servants setting out
the tea-table on the lawn. A Turkey carpet was
spread under the cedar, and there were basket-chairs
of various shapes, cushioned, luxurious, and
two or three small wicker-tables of different colours,
and a milking stool or two, and all the indications of
outdoor life. The one thing missing was that aerial
figure, robed in white, which had been wont to flit
about among the dancing shadows of branch and
blossom  a creature as evanescent as they, it seemed
to that mourning mother who remembered her .


Are you staying long at Coverdale ?" asked Mil-tired
presently, by way of conversation.

'' If Mrs. Hillersdon would be good enough to
have me, I would stay another fortnight. The place
is perfect, the surrounding scenery has your true
English charm, and my hostess is simply delightful."


'you like her?" asked Mildred, interested.

No woman can help being curious about a woman
vith such a history as Mrs. Hillersdon's. All the

elements of romance and mystery seem, from the
feminine standpoint, to concentre in such a career.
How many hearts has such a woman broken ; how
many lives has she ruined ; how often has she been
on the brink of madness or suicide ?  she, the placid
matron, with her fat carriage-horses, and powdered
footmen, and big prayer-book, and demure behaviour,
and altogether bourgeois surroundings.

Like her ? Yes ; she is such a clever woman."

Indeed !"

Yes, she is a marvel  the cleverest woman I
know."

He laid a stress on the superlative. His praise
might mean anything  might be a hidden sneer.
He might praise as the devil prays  backwards.
Mildred had an uncomfortable feeling that he was
not in earnest.

Have you known her long ?" she asked.

Not very long ; only this season. I am told
that she is fickle, or that other people are fickle, and
that she seldom knows any one more than a season.
But I do not mean to be fickle ; I mean to be a
house-friend at Riverdale all my life if she will let

me. She is a very clever woman, and thoroughly
artistic."

Mildred had not quite grasped the modern significance
of this last word.

Does Mrs. Hillersdon paint ?" she asked.

"No, she does not paint."

'' She plays  or sings, I suppose ?"

"No. I am told she once sang Spanish ballads
with a guitar accompaniment ; hut the people who
remember her singing tell me that her arms were
the chief feature in the performance. Her arms are
lovely to this day. No; she neither paints, nor
plays, nor sings ; but she is supremely artistic. She
dresses as few women of five-and-forty know how to
dress  dresses so as to make one think five-and-forty
the most perfect age for a woman ; and she
has a marvellous appreciation of art, of painting, of
poetry, of acting, of music. She is almost the only
woman to whom I have ever played Beethoven who
has seemed to me thoroughly simpatica,''

Ah !" exclaimed Mildred, surprised, "you yourself
play, then ?"

"It is hardly a merit in me," answered Castellani

modestly; ''my father was one of the finest
musicians of his time in Italy."

"Indeed!"

"You are naturally surprised. His genius was
poorly appreciated. His name was hardly known
out of Milan and Brussels. Strange to say, those
stolid Flemings appreciated him. His work was
over the heads of the vulgar public. He saw such
men as Yerdi and Gounod triumphant, while he
remained obscure."

But surely you admire Yerdi and Gounod ?"

In their places, yes ; both are admirable ; but
my father's place should have been in a higher rank
of composers. But let me not plague you about
him. He is dead, and forgotten. He died crownless.
I heard you playing Mozart's * Gloria ' as
I came in. You like Mozart ?"

I adore him."

"Yes, I know there are still people who like his
music. Chopin did ; asked for it on his death-bed,"
said Castellani, with a wry face, as if he were talking
of a vulgar propensity for sauerkraut or a morbid
hankering for asafoetida.

How I wish you would play something while
we are waiting for my husband !" said Mildred, seeing
her visitor's gaze wandering to the open piano.

*' If you will go into the garden and take your
tea, I will play with delight while you take it. I
doubt if I could play to you in cold blood. I know
you are critical."

"And you think I am not simpatica,'' retorted
Mildred, laughing at him. She was quite at her
ease with him already, all thought of that Judas face
in the church being forgotten. His half-deferential,
half-caressing manner ; his easy confidences about
himself and his own tastes, had made her more
familiar with his individuality in the space of an
hour than she would have been with the average
Englishman in a month. She did not know whether
she liked or disliked him ; but he amused her, and
it was a new sensation for her to feel amused.

She sauntered softly out to the lawn, and he
began to play.

Heavens, what a touch ! Was it really her piano
which answered with tones so exquisite  which gave
forth such thrilling melody ? He played an improvised

arrangement of Schubert's ' Ave Maria," and
she stood entranced till the last dying arpeggio
melted into silence. No one could doubt that he
came of a race gifted in music.

Pray don't leave the piano," she said softly,
from her place by the open window.

*' I will play till you call me away," he answered,
as he began Chopin's Etude in C sharp minor.

That weird and impassioned composition reached
its close just as George Greswold approached from
a little gate on the other side of the lawn. Mildred
went to meet him, and Castellani left the piano
and came out of the window to be presented to his
host.

Nothing could be more strongly marked than the
contrast between the two men, as they stood facing
each other in the golden light of afternoon. Griswold,
tall, broad-shouldered, rugged-looking, in his
rough brown heather suit and deerstalker cap,
carrying a thick stick, with an iron fork at the end
of it, for the annihilation of chance weeds in his
peregrinations. His fine and massive features had
a worn look, his cheeks were hollow, his dark hair

and beard were grizzled here and there, his dark
complexion had lost the hue of south. He looked
ten years older than his actual age.

Before him stood the Italian, graceful, gracious
in every line and every movement ; his features
delicately chiselled, his eyes dark, full, and bright ;
his complexion of that milky pallor which is so often
seen with hair tending towards red ; his brown
beard of silkiest texture ; his hands delicately modelled
and of ivory whiteness ; his dress imbued
with all the grace which a fashionable tailor can
give to the clothes of a man who cultivates the
beautiful, even in the barren field of nineteenth
century costume. It was impossible that so marked
a contrast could escape Mildred's observation altogether
; yet she perceived it dimly. The picture
came back to her memory afterwards in more vivid
colours.

She made the necessary introduction, and then
proceeded to pour out the tea, leaving the two men
to talk to each other.

"Your name has an Italian sound," Greswold
said presently.

It is a Milanese name. My father was a native
of Milan ; my mother was French, but she was
educated in England, and all her proclivities were
English. It was at her desire my father sent me to
Rugby, and afterwards to Cambridge. Her fatal
illness called me back to Italy immediately after I
had got my degree, and it was some years before
I again visited England."

"yere you in Italy all that time ?" asked Griswold,
looking down absently, and with an unwonted
trouble in his face.

Mildred sat at the tea-table, the visitor waiting
upon her, insisting upon charging himself with her
husband's cup as well as his own ; an attention and
reversal of etiquette of which Mr. Greswold seemed
unconscious. Kassandra had returned with her
master from a long walk, and was lying at his feet
in elderly exhaustion. She saluted the stranger
with a suppressed growl when he approached with
the teacups. Kassandra adored her own people, but
was not remarkable for civility to strangers.

Yes ; I wasted four or five years in the South
in Florence, in Venice, or along the Riviera, wandering

about like Satan, not having made up my
mind what to do in the world."

Greswold was silent, bending down to play with
Kassandra, who wagged her tail with a gentle largo
movement, in grateful contentment.

*' You must have heard my father's name when
you were at Milan," said Castellani. " His music
was fashionable there''

Mildred looked up with a surprised expression.
She had never heard her husband talk of Milan, and
yet this stranger mentioned his residence there as if
it were an established fact.

How did you know I was ever at Milan ?"
asked Greswold, looking up sharply.

For the simplest of reasons. I had the honour
of meeting you on more than one occasion at large
assemblies, where my insignificant personality would
hardly impress itself upon your memory. And I
met you a year later at Lady Lochinvar's palace at
Nice, soon after your first marriage."

Mildred looked up at her husband. He was pale
as ashes, his lips whitening as she gazed at him.
She felt her own cheeks paling ; felt a sudden coldness

creeping over her, as if she were going to faint.
She watched her husband dumbly, expecting him to
tell this man that he was mistaken, that he was
confounding him, George Greswold, with some one
else; but Greswold sat silent, and presently, as if
to hide his confusion, bent again over the dog, who
got up suddenly and licked his face in a gush of
affection  as if she knew  as if she knew.

He had been married before, and he had told
his wife not one word of that first marriage. There
had been no hint of the fact that he was a widower
when he asked John Fausset for his daughter's
hand.

VOL. I.

THE BEGINNING OF DOUBT.

Endeeby Church clock struck six. They heard
every chime, slow and clear in the summer stillness,
as they sat in the broad shadow of the cedar, silent
all three.

It seemed as if the striking of the clock were the
breaking of a spell.

So late ?" exclaimed Castellani, in a cheery
voice ; " and I promised Mrs. Hillersdon to be back
in time to drive to Romsey for the evening service.
The old Abbey Church of Romsey, she tells me, is
a thing to dream about. There is no eight-o'clock
dinner at Riverdale on Sundays. Every one goes to
church somewhere, and we sup at half-past nine, and
after supper there is sometimes extempore prayer 
and sometimes there are charades or dumb crambo.
Best selon. When the Prince was there they had
dumb crambo. Good-bye. I am almost ashamed

to ask if I may ever come again, after having bored
you for such an unconscionable time."

He had the easiest air possible, and seemed
totally unconscious of any embarrassment caused by
his allusions to the past ; and yet in both faces, ashe
looked from one to the other, he must have seen
the strongest indications of trouble.

Mrs. Greswold murmured something to the effect
that she would be glad to see him at any time, a
speech obviously conventional and unmeaning. Mr.
Greswold rose hastily and accompanied him to the
hall-door, where the cart still waited for him, the
groom fixed as a statue of despondency.

Mr. Castellani was inclined to be loquacious to
the last. Greswold was brief almost to incivility.
He stood watching the light cart roll away, and then
went slowly back to the garden and to his seat under
the cedar.

He seated himself without a word, looking earnestly
at his wife, whose drooping head and fixed
attitude told of deepest thought. So they sat for
some minutes in dead silence, Kassandra licking her

master's pendant hand, as he leaned forward with
his elbow on his knee, infinitely sorry for him.

Mildred was the first to break that silence.

George, why did you not tell me," she began ina
love faltering voice, " that I was not your first
wife ? What reason could there be for concealment
between you and me ? I so trusted you ; I so loved
you. Nothing you could have told would have
changed me."

Dearest, there was one reason, and a powerful
one," answered George Greswold firmly, meeting
the appealing look of her eyes with a clear and
steady gaze. *' My first marriage is a sad remembrance
for me  full of trouble. I did not care to tell
you that miserable story, to call a dreaded ghost out
of the grave of the past. My first marriage was the
one great sorrow of my life, but it was only an
episode in my life. It left me as lonely as it
found me. There are very few who know anything
about it. I am sorry that young man should
have come here to trouble us with his uninvited
reminiscences. For my own part, I cannot remember
having ever seen his face before."

**I am sorry you should have kept such a secret
from me," said Mildred. "It would have been so
much wiser to have been candid. Do you think I
should not have respected your sad memories ? Yoii
had only to say to me ' Such things were ; but let us
not talk of them.' It would have been more manly ;-
it would have been kinder to me."

Say that I was a coward, if you like ; that 1
am still a coward, where those memories are concerned,"
said Greswold.

The look of agony in his face melted her in a
moment. She threw herself on her knees beside
his chair, she and the dog fawning upon him together.


Forgive me, forgive me, dearest," she pleaded
I will never speak to you of this again. Women
are so jealous  of the past most of all."

'' Is that all?" he said : " God knows you have
little need. Let us say no more, Mildred. The
past is past: neither you nor I can alter it. Memory
is inexorable. God Himself cannot change it."

I will contrive that Mr. Castellani shall not
come here again, George, if you object to see hin."

'' Pray don't trouble yourself. I would not have
such a worm suppose that he could be obnoxious
to me."

Tell me what you think of him," she asked, ina
lighter tone, anxious to bring back the easy mood
of every-day life. " He seems very clever, and he is
rather handsome."

"What do I think of the trumpet-ash on the
verandah yonder ? A beautiful parasite, which will
hold on anywhere in the sunshine. Mr. Castellani
is of the same family, I take it  studies his own
interests first, and chooses his friends afterwards.
He will do admirably for Riverdale."

' He plays divinely. His touch transformed my
piano."

He looks the kind of man who would play the
piano," said Greswold, with ineffable contempt, looking
down at his own sunburnt hands, hardened by
exposure to all weathers, broadened by handling gun
and punt-pole, and by half-a-dozen other forms of
out-door exercise. " However, I have no objection
to him, if he serve to amuse you and Pamela."

He spoke with a kind of weary indifference, as of

a man who cared for very little in life ; and then he
rose slowly, took up his stick, and strolled off to the
shrubbery.

Pamela appeared on the following afternoon with
boxes, bags, music-books, raquets, and parasols, in a
proportion which gave promise of a long visit. She
had asked as a tremendous favour to be allowed to
bring Box  otherwise Fits-Box  her fox-terrier, son
of Sir Henry Montfort's Box, great-grandson of
Brockenhurst Joe, through that distinguished animal's
daughter Lyndhurst Jessie, and on the paternal
side a lineal descendant of Mr. Hutchison's
Cracknel.

I hope you won't mind very much," she wrote;
but it would be death to him if I were to leave
him behind. To begin with, his brother Fits-Cox,
who has a villanous temper, would inevitably kill
him ; and besides that, he would pine to death at not
sleeping in my room at night, which he has done
ever since he was a puppy. If you will let me bring
him, I will answer for his good manners, and that
he shall not be a trouble to any one."

The descendant of Brockenhurst Joe rushed out
into the garden, and made a lightning circuit of lawn
and shrubberies, while his young mistress was kissing
her Aunt Mildred, as she called her uncle's wife
in the fulness of her affection.

'rit is so very good of you to have me, and I am
so delighted to come !" she said.

Mildred would have much preferred that she were
anywhere else, yet could not help feeling kindly
to her. She was a frank, bright-looking girl, with
brown eyes, and almost flaxen hair ; a piquant contrast,
for the hair was genuine, and carried out in
the eyebrows, which were only just a shade darker.
Her complexion was fair to transparency, and she
had just enough soft rosy bloom to light up the
delicate skin. Her nose was slightly retrousse, her
mouth was a little wider than she herself approved,
and her teeth were perfection. She had a charming
figure of the plump order, but its plumpness was a
distress to her.

Don't you think I get horribly stout ?" she
asked Mildred, when she was sitting at tea in the
garden presently.

You may be a little stouter than you were at
sixteen, perhaps, but not at all too stout."

0, but I am ! I know it, I feel it. Don't
endeavour to spare my feelings, aunt. It is useless.
I know I am fat. Kosalind says I ought to marry ;
but I tell her it's absurd. How can anybody ever
care for me now I am fat ? They would only want
my money if they asked me to marry them," concluded
Pamela, clinging to the plural.

''My dear Pamela, do you wish me to tell you
that you are charming, and all that you ought to
be?" asked Mildred, laughing.

0, no, no ! I don't want you to spare my
feelings. Everybody spares one's feelings. One
grows up in ignorance of the horrors in one's appearance,
because people will spare one's feelings. And
then one sees oneself in a strange glass ; or a boy in
the street says something, and one knows the worst.
I think I know the worst about myself. That is
one comfort. How lovely it is here !" said Pamela,
with a sudden change of mood, glancing at Mildred
with a little pathetic look as she remembered the

childish figure that must be for ever missing from
that home picture.

*'I am so glad to be with you," she murmured
softly, nestling up to Mildred's side, as they sat
together on a rustic bench; 'let me be useful to
you, let me be a companion to you, if you can."

"You shall be both, dear."

How good to say that ! And you won't mind
Box ?"

"Not the least. If he will be amiable to Kassandra."


''He will. He has been brought up among
other dogs. We are a very doggy family at the Hall.
Would you think he was worth a hundred and fifty
guineas ?" asked Pamela with ill-concealed pride, as
the scion of illustrious progenitors came up and put
his long lean head in her hand, and conversed with
her in a series of expressive snorts, as it were a
conversational code.

"I hardly know what constitutes perfection in a
fox-terrier."

No more do I; but I know he is perfect. He
is said to be the image of Cracknel, only better. I

tremble when I think that my possession of him
hangs by a thread. He might be stolen at any
moment."

"You must be careful."

** Yes, I cannot be too careful. Here comes
Uncle George," said Pamela, rising and running to
meet Mr. Greswold. " 0, Uncle George, low
altered you are !"

She was always saying the wrong thing, after
the manner of impulsive girls ; and she was quick-witted
enough to discover her mistake the instant
after.

Happily the dogs furnished a ready diversion.
She introduced Box, and expatiated upon his grand
qualities. She admired and made friends with Kassandra,
and then settled down almost as lightly as a
butterfly, in spite of her plumpness, on a Japanese
stool, to take her teacup from Mildred's hands.

She was perfectly at her ease by this time, and
told her uncle and aunt all about her sister Rosalind,
and Rosalind's husband, Sir Henry Montfort,
whom she summed up lightly as a nice old thing,
and no end of fun. It was easy to divine from her

discourse that Farnham Hall was not an especially
intellectual atmosphere, not a school of advanced
thought, or of any other kind of thought. Pamela's
talk was of tennis, yachting, fishing, and shooting,
and of the people who shared in those sports. She
seemed to belong to a world in which nobody ever
sat down except to eat, or stayed indoors except
under stress of weather.

I hear you have all manner of clever people in
your neighbourhood," she said by and by, having
told all she had to tell about Farnham.

Have we ?" asked Greswold, smiling at her
intensity.

Yes, at Riverdale. They do say the author of
Nepenthe is staying there, and that he is not a
Roman Cardinal or an English statesman, but
almost a young man  an Italian by birth  and very
handsome. I would give worlds to see him."

"It is not unlikely you may be gratified without
giving anything," answered her uncle. "Mr. Castellani
was here yesterday afternoon, and threatened
to repeat his visit."

*' Castellani ! Yes, that is the name I heard.

What a pretty name ! And what is he like ? Do
tell me all about him, Aunt Mildred."

She turned to the woman as the more likely to
give her a graphic description. The average man
is an describing animal.

Mildred made an effort at self-command before
she spoke. Castellani counted for but little in her
recent trouble. His revelation had been an accident,
and its effect entirely dissociated from him.
Yet the very thought of the man troubled her, and
the dread of seeing him again was like a physical
pain.

I do not know what to say about his appearance,"
she answered presently, slowly fanning herself
with a great scarlet Japanese fan, pale and cool
looking in her plain white gown with its black
ribbons. The very picture of domestic peace, one
would suppose, judging by externals only. " I
suppose there are people who would think him
handsome."

** Don't you, aunt?"

No. I don't like the colour of his eyes or of
his hair. They are of that reddish-brown which the

Venetian painters are so fond of, but which always
gives me an idea of falsehood and treachery. Mr.
Castellani is a very clever man, but he is not a man
whom I could ever trust."

How nice !" cried Pamela, her face radiant
with enthusiasm ; "a creature with red-brown hair,
and eyes with a depth of falsehood in them. That
is just the kind of man who might be the author of
Nepenthe, If you had told me he was stout and
rosy-cheeked, with pepper-and-salt whiskers and a
fine, benevolent head, I would never have opened
his book again."

You seem to admire this Nepenthe prodigiously,"
said her uncle, looking at her with a calmly
critical air. " Is it because the book is the fashion,
or from your own unassisted appreciation of it ?
I did not think you were a bookish person."

I'm not," cried Pamela. ** I am a mass of
ignorance. I don't know anything about science.
I don't know the name of a single butterfly. I don't
know one toadstool from another. But when I love
a book it is a passion with me. My Keats has
tumbled to pieces; my Shelley is disgracefully

dirty. I have read Nepenthe six times, and I am
waiting for the cheap edition, to keep it under my
pillow. It has made me an Agnostic."

Do you know the dictionary meaning of that
word r

I don't think I do ; hut I know I am an
Agnostic. Nepenthe has unsettled all my old beliefs.
If I had read it four years ago I should have refused
to be confirmed. I am dying to know the author."

You like unbelievers, then ?" said Mr. Greswold.

I adore men who dare to doubt, who are not
afraid to stand apart from their fellow-men."

** On a bad eminence ?"

** Yes, on a bad eminence. What a sweet expression
! I can never understand Goethe's Gretchen."

Y\hy not ?"

** How could she have cared for Faust, when she
had the privilege of knowing Mephistopheles ?''

Pamela Kansome had established herself in her
pretty bedroom and dressing-room, and had supervised
her maid while she unpacked and arranged all
her belongings, before dinner-time. She came down

to the drawing-room, at a quarter to eight, as thoroughly
at her ease as if she had lived half her life
at Enderby Manor. She was a kind of visitor who
gives no trouble, and who drops into the right place
instinctively. Mildred Greswold felt cheered by her
presence, in spite of that ever-recurrent pang of
memory which associated all young bright things
with the sweet girl-child who should have grown to
womanhood under that roof, and who was lying a
little way off, under the ripening berries of the
mountain-ash, and in the deep shadow of a century-old
yew.

They were very quiet in the drawing-room after
dinner ; Greswold reading in a nook apart, by the
light of his own particular lamp ; his wife bending
over an embroidery-frame in her cornered the piano,
where she had her own special dwarf bookcase and
her work-basket, and the bonheur clu jour at which
she sometimes wrote letters, her own little table
scattered with old family miniatures by Angelica
Kaufmann, Conway, and Loss, and antique watches
in enamelled cases, and boxes of porcelain and gold
and silver, every one of which had its history.

Every woman who lives much at home has some
such corner, where the very atmosphere is full of
home thoughts. She asked her niece to play, and
to go on playing as long as she liked ; and Pamela,
pleased with the touch of the Broadwood grand,
rang the changes upon Chopin, Schumann, Raff, and
Brahma, choosing those compositions which least
jarred upon the atmosphere of studious repose.

Mildred's needle moved slowly, as she sat in her
low chair, with her hands in the lamp-light and her
face in shadow, moved very slowly, and then stopped
altogether, and the white hands lay idle in her lap,
and the embroidery-frame, with its half-finished
group of azaleas, slid from her knee to the ground.
She was thinking  thinking of that one subject
which had possessed her thoughts since yesterday
afternoon ; which had kept her awake through the
brief darkness of the summer night and in the slow
hours betwixt dawn and seven o'clock, when the
entrance of the maid with the early cup of tea marked
the beginning of the daily routine. In all those
hours her thoughts had revolved round that one
theme with an intolerable recurrence.

YOL. I. o

It was of her husband's first marriage she
thought, and of his motive for silence about that
marriage : that he who, in the whole course of their
wedded lives, had been the very spirit of singleminded
candour, should yet have suppressed this
all-important event in his past history, was a fact
in itself so startling and mysterious that it might
well be the focus of a wife's troubled thoughts. He
could not so have acted without some all-sufficient
reason ; and what manner of reason could that have
been which had influenced him to conduct so entirely
at variance with his own character ?

What was there in the history of that marriage
which had sealed his lips, which made it horrible to
him to speak about it, even when fair dealing with
the girl who was to be his wife should have constrained
frankness ?

Had he been cursed with a wicked wife ; some
beautiful creature, who had caught his heart in her
toils, as a cat catches a bird, and had won him only
to betray and to dishonour him ? Had she blighted
his life, branded him with the shame of a forsaken
husband ?

And then a hideous dread floated across her mind.
What if that first wife were still living  divorced
from him ? Had she, Mildred Fausset, severely trained
in the strictest principles of the Anglican Church 
taught her creed by an ascetic who deemed divorce
unchristian and an abomination, and who had always
refused to marry those who had been divorced  had
she, in whose life and mind religion and duty were
as one feeling and one principle  had she been
trapped into a union with a man whose wife yet
lived, and in the sight of God was yet one with him
a wife who might crawl penitent to his feet some
day, and claim him as her own again by the right of
tears and prayers and a soul cleansed from sin ?
Such a sinner must have some hold, some claim even
to the last, upon the man who once was her husband-who
once swore to cherish her and cleave to her, of
whom it had once been said, " And they two shall
be one flesh."

No ; again and again, no. She could not believe
George Greswold capable of such deep dishonour as
to have concealed the existence of a divorced wife.

No ; the reason for that mysterious silence must be
another reason than this.

She had sinned against him, it might be, and
had died in her sin, under circumstances too sad to
be told without infinite pain; and he, who had
never in her experience shown himself wanting in
moral courage, had in this one crisis of his life acted
as the coward acts. He had kept silence where
conscience should have constrained him to speak.

And then the wife's vivid fancy conjured up the
image of that other wife. Her jealous fears depicted
that wife of past years as a being to be loved and
remembered until death  beautiful, fascinating,
gifted with all the qualities that charm mankind.
** He can never care for me as he once cared for
her," Mildred told herself. *' She was his first
love."

His first  the first revelation of what love means
to the passionate heart of youth. What a world
there is in that ! Mildred remembered how a new
life began for her with the awakening of her love for
George Greswold. What a strange sweet enchantment,
what an intoxicating gladness which glorified

the whole face of nature ! The river, and the reedy
islets, and the pollard willows, and the autumn sunsets
 things so simple and familiar  had all taken
new colours in that magical dawn of her first love.

She  that unknown woman  had been George
Greswold's first love. Mildred envied her that brief
life, whose sole distinction was to have been loved
by him.

"Why do I imagine a mystery about her?" she
argued, after long brooding. " The only secret was
that he loved her as he could never love me, and he
feared to tell me as much lest I should refuse the
remnant of a heart. It was out of kindness to me
that he kept silence. It would have pained me too
much to know how she had been loved."

She knew that her husband was a man of exceeding
sensitiveness; she knew him capable of almost
woman-like delicacy. Was it altogether unnatural
that such a man should have held back the history
of his first marriage  with its passionate love, its
heartbroken ending  from the enthusiastic girl who
had given him all her heart, and to whom he could
give so little in return ?

*she may have seen how I loved him, and may-have
married me half out of pity," she said to herself
finally, with unspeakable bitterness.

Yet if this were so, could they have been so happy
together, so completely united  save in that one
secret of the past, that one dark regret which had
revealed itself from time to time in an agonising
dream ? He had walked that dark labyrinth of sleep
alone with his sorrow : there she could not follow
him.

She remembered the awful sound of those broken
sentences  spoken to shadows in a land of shadow.
She remembered how acutely she had felt his remoteness
as he sat up in bed, pale as death, his
eyes open and fixed, his lips muttering. He and
the dead were face to face in the halls of the past.
She had no part iu his life, or in his memory.

SHE CANNOT BE UNWORTHY.

Mr. Castellani did not wait long before he availed
himself of Mrs. Greswold's permission to repeat this
visit. He appeared on Friday afternoon, at the
orthodox hour of half-past three, when Mildred and
her niece were sitting in the drawing-room, exhausted
by a long morning at Salisbury, where they had
explored the cathedral, and lunched in the Close
with a clever friend of George Greswold's, who had
made his mark on modern literature.

I adore Salisbury Close," said Pamela, as she
looked through the old-fashioned window to the old-fashioned
garden ; "it reminds me of Honoris."

She did not deem it necessary to explain what
Honoris she meant, presuming a universal acquaintance
with Coventry Patmore's gentle heroine.

The morning had been sultry, the homeward
drive long, and both ladies were resting in comfort-the

FATAL THREE.

able silence, each with a book, when Castellani was
announced.

Mildred received him rather coldly, trying her
uttermost to seem thoroughly at ease. She introduced
him to her niece, Miss Ransome.

The daughter of the late Mr. Randolph Ransom e
and the sister of Lady Montfort ?" Castellani inquired
presently, when Pamela had run out on the
lawn to speak to Box.

Yes. You seem to know everybody's belongings."


*' Why not ? It is the duty of every man of the
world, more especially of a foreigner. I know Mr.
Ransome's place in the Sussex Weald  a very fine
property  and I know that the two ladies are co-heiresses,
but that the Sussex estate is to descend to
the eldest son of the elder daughter, or failing male
issue there, to the son of the younger. Lady Mount-ford
has a baby-son, I believe.

"Your information is altogether correct."

Why should it be otherwise ? Mr. Hillersdon
and his wife discussed the family history to-day at
luncheon, apropos to Miss Ransome's appearance in

Eomsey Church at the Saint's Day service yesterday."


His frankness apologised for his impertinence,
and he was a foreigner, which seems always to
excuse a great deal.

Pamela came back again, after rescuing Box from
a rough-and-tumble game with Kassandra. She
looked rosy and breathless, and very pretty, in her
pale-blue gown and girlish sash flying in the wind,
and flaxen hair flushed into a feathery pile on the top
of her head, and honest brown eyes. She resumed
her seat in the deep old window behind the end of
the piano, and made believe to go on with some
work, which she took in a tangled heap from a very
untidy basket. Already Pamela had set the sign of
her presence upon the drawing-rooms at Enderby, a
trail of heterogeneous litter which was a part of her
individuality. Screened by the piano, she was able
to observe Castellani, as he stood leaning over the
large central ottoman, with his knee on the cushioned
seat, talking to Mrs. Greswold.

He was the author of Nepenthe. It was in that
character he interested her. She looked at him with

the thought of his book full in her mind. It was
one of those half-mad, wholly artificial compositions
which delight girls and young men, and which are
just clever enough, and have just enough originality
to get talked about and written about by the cultured
few. It was a love-story, ending tragically;
a story of ruined lives and broken hearts, told in the
autobiographical form, with a studied avoidance of
all conventional ornament, which gave an air of
reality where all was inherently false. Pamela
thought it must be Castellani's own story. She
fancied she could see the traces of those heartbreaking
experiences, those crushing disappointments
in his countenance, in his bearing even, and
in the tones of his voice, which gave an impression
of mental fatigue, as of a man worn out by a fatal
passion.

The story of Nepenthe was as old as the hills 
or at least as old as the Boulevard des Capucines
and the Palais Royal. It was the story of a virtuous
young man's love for an virtuous woman 
the story of Demerits and Lamia  the story of a
man's demoralisation under the influence of incarnate

falsehood, of the gradual lapse from good to
evil, the gradual extinction of every belief and every
scruple, the iBnal destruction of a soul.

The wicked siren was taken, her victim was
left; but left to expiate that miserable infatuation
by an after-life of misery ; left without a joy in the
present or a hope in the future.

He looks like it," thought Pamela, remembering
that final chapter.

Mrs. Greswold was putting a few slow stitches
into the azalea-leaves on her embroidery-frame, and
listening to Mr. Castellani with an air of polite indifference.


Do you know that Coverdale is quite the most
delightful house I have ever stayed in ?" he said ;
and I have stayed in a great many. And do you
know that Mrs. Hillersdon is heart-broken at your
never having called upon her ?"

*'I am sorry so small a matter should touch
Mrs. Hillersdon's heart."

She feels it intensely. She told me so yesterday.
Perfect candour is one of the charms of her
character. She is as emotional and as transparent

as a child. Why have you not called on
her?"

"You forget that Riverdale is seven miles from
this house."

"Does not your charity extend so far? Are
people who live seven miles off beyond the pale ? I
think you must visit a little further afield than seven
miles. There must be some other reason."

"There is another reason, which I had rather
not talk about."

"I understand. You consider Mrs. Hillersdon
a person not to be visited. Long ago, when you
were a child in the nursery, Mrs. Hillersdon was
an undisciplined, inexperienced girl, and the world
used her hardly. Is that old history never to be
forgotten ? Men, who know it all, have agreed to
forget it : why should women, who only know a
fragment, so obstinately remember ?"

I know nothing, and remember nothing, about
Mrs. Hillersdon. My friends are, for the most part,
those of my husband's choice, and I pay no visits
without his approval. He does not wish me to visit

at lauderdale. You have forced me to give you a
plain answer, Mr. Castellani."

Why not ? Plain truth is always best. I am
sorry Mr. Greswold has interdicted my charming
friend. You can have no idea how excellent a
woman she is, or how admirable a wife. Tom
Hillersdon might have searched the county from
border to border and not have found as good a
woman  looked at as the woman best calculated to
make him happy. And what delightful people she
has brought about him ! One of the most interesting
men I ever met arrived yesterday, and is to
preach the hospital sermon at Komsey next Sunday.
He is an old friend of yours."

A clergyman, and an old friend of mine, at
Coverdale !"

A man of ascetic life and exceptional culture.
I never heard any man talk of Dante better than he
talked to me last night in a moonlight stroll on the
terrace, while the other men were in the smoking-room."


Surely you do not mean Mr. Cancellor, the
Vicar of St. Elizabeth's, Parchment Street ?"

That is the man  Clement Cancellor, Vicar of
St. Elizabeth's. He looks like a mediaeval monk
just stepped out of one of Bellini's altar-pieces."

He is the noblest, most unselfish of men,"
said Mildred warmly ; "he has given his life to
doing good among rich and poor. It is so long since
I have seen him. We have asked him to Enderby
very often, but he has always been too busy to come.
And to think that he should be in this neighbourhood
and I know nothing about it ; and to think that
he should go to Riverdale rather than come here !"

*she had hardly any option. It was Mrs.
Hillersdon who asked him to preach on Hospital
Sunday. She extorted a promise from him three
months ago in London. The Vicar of Romsey was
enchanted. * You are the cleverest woman I know,'
he said. * No one else could have got me such a
great gun.' "

"A great gun  Mr. Cancellor a great gun ! I
can only think of him as I knew him when I was
twelve years old : a tall, thin young man, in a very
shabby coat  he was curate at St. Elizabeth's then
very gaunt and hollow-checked, but with such a

sweet smile. He used to come twice a week to teach
me the history of the Bible and the Church. He
made me love both."

"He is gaunt and hollow-checked still, tall and
bony and sallow, and he still wears a shabby coat.
You will not find much difference in him, I fancy 
only so many more years of hard work and self-sacrifice,
ascetic living and nightly study. A man
to know Dante as he does must have given years of
his life to that one poet  and I am told that in
literature Canceller is an all-round man. His monograph
on Pascal is said to be the best of a brilliant
series of such studies."

I hope he will come to see his old pupil before
he leaves the neighbourhood."

"He means to do so. He was talking of it
yesterday evening  asking Mrs. Hillersdon if she
was intimate with you  so awkward for poor Mrs.
Hillersdon."

I shall be very glad to see him again."

May I drive him over to tea tomorrow afternoon
?"

"He will be welcome here at any time."

Or with any one ? If Mrs. Hillersdon were to
bring him, would you still refuse to receive her?"

*' I have never refused to receive her. We have
met and talked to each other on public occasions.
If Mr. Canceller likes her she cannot be unworthy."

May she come with him tomorrow ?" persisted
Castellani.

If she likes," faltered Mildred, wondering that
any woman could so force an entrance to another
woman's house.

She did not know that it was by such forced
entrances Mrs. Hillersdon had made her way in
society until some of the best houses in London had
been opened to her.

If you are not in a hurry to leave us, I know
my niece would much like to hear you play," she
said, feeling that the talk about Coverdale had been
dull work for Pamela.

Miss Ransome murmured assent.

If you will play something of Beethoven's," she
entreated.

*'Do you object to Mozart?" he asked, forgetting
his depreciation of the valet-musician's son a

few days before. " I feel more in the humour for
that prince of dramatists. I will give you the supper
in Don Giovanni. You shall see Leporello
trembling. You shall hear the tramp of ghostly
feet."

And then, improvising upon a familiar theme, he
gave his own version of that wonderful scene, and
that music so played conjured up a picture as vivid
as ever opera-house furnished to an enthralled
audience.

Pamela listened in silent rapture. What a God-gifted
creature this was, who had so deeply moved
her by his pen, who moved her even more intensely
by that magical touch upon the piano !

When he had played those last crashing chords
which consigned the profligate to his doom, he
waited for a minute or so, and then, softly, as if
almost unawares, in mere absent-minded idleness,
his hands wandered into the staccato accompaniment
of the serenade, and, with the finest tenor Mildred
had heard since she heard Sin Reeves, he sang
those delicate and dainty phrases with which the
seducer woos his last divinity.

VOL. I. B

He rose from the piano at the close of that lovely
air, smiling at his hearers.

** I had no idea that you were a singer as well asa
pianist," said Mildred.

"You forget that music is my native tongue.
My father taught me to play before he taught me to
read, and I knew harmony before I knew my alphabet.
I was brought up in the house of a man who
lived only for music  to whom all stringed instruments
were as his mother tongue. It was by a
caprice that he made me play the piano  which he
rarely touched himself."

"He must have been a great genius," said
Pamela, with girlish fervour.

"Alas! no, he just missed greatness, and he
must missed genius. He was a highly-gifted man 
various  capricious  volatile  and he married a
woman with just enough money to ruin him. Had
he been obliged to earn his bread, he might have
been great. Who can say ? Hunger is the slave-driver,
with his whip of steel, who peoples the Valhalla
of nations. If Homer had not been a beggar
as well as blind  we might have had no story

of Troy. Good-bye, Mrs. Greswold. Good-bye,"
shaking hands with Pamela. "I may bring my
hostess tomorrow ?"

''I  I  suppose so," Mildred answered feebly,
wondering what her husband would think of such
an invasion.

Yet, if Clement Cancellor, who to Mildred's mind
had always seemed the ideal Christian priest, if he
could tolerate and consort with her, could she, Mildred
Greswold, persist in the Pharisee's part, and
hold herself aloof from this neighbour, to whose
good works and kindly disposition many voices had
testified in her hearing?

SHALL SHE BE LESS THAN ANOTHER ?

It was in all good faith that Clement Cancellor had
gone to Coverdale. He had not gone there for the
fleshpots of Egypt. He was a man of severely
ascetic habits, who ate and drank as temperately asa
disciple of that old faith of the East which is gaining
a curious influence upon our new life of the
"West. For him the gratification of the senses, soft
raiment, artistic furniture, thoroughbred horses and
luxurious carriages, palm-houses and orchid-houses,
offered no temptation. He stayed in Mrs. Millers
house because he was her friend, her friend
upon the broadest and soundest basis on which
friendship could be built. He knew all that was to
be known about her. He knew her frailties of the
past, her virtues in the present, her exalted hope in
the future. From her own lips he had heard the
story of Louise Lorraine's life. She had extenuated

nothing. She had not withheld from him either
the foulness of her sins or their number  nay, it
may be that she had in sometime exaggerated the
blackness of those devils whom he, Clement Cancellor,
had cast out from her, enhancing by just so
much the magnitude of the miracle he had wrought.
She had held back nothing ; but over every revelation
she had contrived to spread that gloss which a
clever woman knows how to give to the tale of her
own wrong-doing. In every incident of that evil
career she had contrived to show herself more sinned
against than sinning ; the fragile victim of overmastering
wickedness in others; the martyr of
man's treachery and man's passion ; the sport of
fate and circumstance. Had Mr. Cancellor known
the world he lived in half as well as he knew the
world beyond he would hardly have believed so
readily in the lady who had been Louise Lorraine :
but he was too single-minded to doubt a repentant
sinner whose conversion from the ways of evil had
been made manifest by so many good works, and
such unflagging zeal in the exercises of the Anglican
Church.

Parchment Street, Grosvenor Square, is one of
the fashionable streets of London, and St. Elizabeth's,
Parchment Street, had gradually developed,
in Clement Canceller's incumbency, into one of the
most popular tabernacles at the West End. He
whose life-desire had been to carry the lamp of the
faith into dark places, to be the friend and teacher of
the friendless and the untaught, found himself almost
in spite of himself a fashionable preacher, and the
delight of the cultured, the wealthy, and the aristocratic.
In his parish of St. Elizabeth's there was
plenty of work for him to do  plenty of that work
which he had chosen as the mission that had been
given to him to fulfil. Behind those patrician streets
where only the best-appointed carriages drew up,
where only the best-dressed footmen ever pulled the
bells or rattled long peals on high-art knockers,
there were some of the worst slums in London, and
it was in those slums that half Mr. Canceller's life
was spent. In narrow alleys between Oxford and
Signore Streets, and in the intricate purlieus of
Marylebone Lane, the Anglican priest had ample
scope for his labour, a vineyard waiting for the husbandman.

And in the labyrinth hidden in the
heart of West End London Mr. Canceller's chief
coadjutor for the last twenty years had been Louise
Hillersdon. Thoroughness was the supreme quality
of Mrs. Hillersdon's mind. Nothing stopped her.
It was this temper which had given her distinction
in the days when princes were her cupbearer and
diamonds her daily tribute. There had been other
women as beautiful, other women as fascinating;
but there was not one who with beauty and fascination
combined the audacity and resolution of Louise
Lorraine. When Louise Lorraine took possession
of a man's wits and a man's fortune that man was
doomed. He was as completely gone as the lemon
in the iron squeezer. A twist of the machine, and
there is nothing left but broken rind and crushed
pulp. A season of infatuation, and there was
nothing left of Mrs. Lorraine's admirer but shattered
health and an overdrawn banking account. Estates,
houses, friends, position, good name, all dropped
away from the man whom Louise Lorraine brayed
in her mortar. She spoke of him next season with
half contemptuous pity. " Did I know Sir Theodore

Barrymore ? Yes ; he used to come to my parties
sometimes. A nice fellow enough, hut such a terrible
fool."

When Louise Lorraine married Tom Hillersdon,
and took it into her head to break away altogether
from her past career, and to pose before the world
as a beautiful Magdalen, she was clever enough to
know that, to achieve any place in society, she must
have a very powerful influence to help her. She
was clever enough to discover that the one influence
which a woman in her position could count upon was
the influence of the Church. She was beautiful
enough and refined enough to win friends among
the clergy by the charm of her personality. She
was rich enough to secure such friends, and bind
them to herself by the splendour of her gifts, by her
substantial aid in those good works which are to the
priest as the very breath of his life. One man she
could win by an organ ; another lived only to complete
a steeple ; the third had been yearning for a
decade for that golden hour when the cracked tin-tribulation
which now summoned his flock should
be exchanged for a fine peal of bells. Such men as

these were only too easily won, and the drawing-rooms
of Mr. Hillersdon's house in Park Lane were
rarely without the grace of some clerical figure in
long frock-coat and Koman collar.

Clement Canceller was of a sterner stuff, and
not to be bought by bell or reredos, rood-screen or
pulpit. Him Louise Hillersdon won by larger measures
: to him she offered all that was spiritual in
her nature : and this woman of strange memories
was not without spiritual aspirations and real
striving after godliness. Clement Canceller was no
pious simpleton, to be won by sentimental cant and
crocodile tears. He knew truth from falsehood, had
never in his life been duped by the jingle of false
coin. He knew that Mrs. Hillersdon's repentance
had the true ring, albeit she was in some things still
of the earth earthy. She had worked for him and
with him in that wilderness of London as not one
other woman in his congregation had ever worked.
To the lost of her own sex she had been as a redeeming
angel. Wretched women had blessed her with
their expiring breath, had died full of hopes that
might never have been awakened had not Louise

Lorraine sat beside their beds. Few other women
had ever so influenced the erring of her sex. She
who had waded deep in the slough of sin knew how
to talk to sinners.

Mr. Canceller never forgot her as he had seen
her by the bed of death and in the haunts of iniquity.
She could never be to him as the herd of women.
To the mind of the preacher she had a higher value
than one in twenty of those women of his flock whose
unstained lives had never needed the cleansing of
self-sacrifice and difficult works.

Thus it was that the Vicar of St. Elizabeth's
had never shrunk from acknowledging Mrs. Millers
as his personal friend, had never feared to sit
at her board, or to be seen with her in public ; and
in the work of Louise Lorraine's rehabilitation
Clement Cancellor had been a tower of strength.
And now this latest mark of friendship, this visit to
her country home, and this appearance in the noble
old Abbey Church at her solicitation, filled her cup
of pride. These starched county people who had
shunned her hospitalities were to see that one
of the most distinguished preachers in the High

Church party had given her his friendship and his
esteem.

It had been something for her to have the Prince
at Coverdale : it was still more to her to have Clement
Canceller.

Pamela was in a flutter of excitement all Saturday
morning, in the expectation of Castellani's reappearance
in the afternoon. She had heard Mr.
Canceller preach, and was delighted at the idea of
seeing him in the pleasant intimacy of afternoon
tea. Had there been no such person as Castellani,
her spirits would have been on tip-toe at the idea
of conversing with the fashionable preacher  of
telling him in a reverent under-tone of all those
deep emotions his eloquence had inspired in her.
But the author of Nepenthe possessed just that
combination of qualities which commands the admiration
of such a girl as Pamela. That exquisite
touch on the piano, that perfect tenor voice, that
exotic elegance of dress and figure, all had made
their mark upon the sensitive plate of a girl's ardent
fancy. " If I had pictured to myself the man who

wrote Nepenthe, I should have imagined just such
a face, just such a style*' thought Pamela, quite
forgetting that when first she had read the hook
she had made a very vivid picture of the author
altogether the opposite of Cesar Castellani  a dark
man, lean as a whipping-post, grave as philosophy
itself, with sombre hack eyes, and hon hair, and
a complexion of antique marble. And now she was
ready to accept the Italian, sleek, supple, essentially
modern in every grace and attribute, in place of that
sage of antique mould.

She went dancing about with the dogs all the
morning, inciting the grave Kassandra to unwonted
exertions, running in and out of the drawing-room,
making an atmosphere of gaiety in the grave old
house. Mildred's heart ached as she watched that
flying figure in the white gown, youth, health, joyousness,
personified.

0, if my darling were but here, life might be
full of happiness again," she thought. " I should
cease to weary myself with wondering about that
hidden past."

Do what she would her thoughts still dwelt upon

the image of that wife who had possessed George
Greswold's heart before her. She knew that he must
have loved that other woman whom he had sworn
before God's altar to cherish. He was not the kind
of man to marry for any motive but a disinterested
love. That he had loved passionately, and that he
had been wronged deeply, was Mildred's reading of
the mystery. There had been a look of agony in
his countenance when he spoke of the past that told
of a sorrow too deep for words.

** He has never loved me as he once loved her,"
thought Mildred, who out of the wealth of her own
love had developed the capacity for that self-torture
called jealousy.

It seemed to her that her husband had taken
pains to avoid the old opportunities of confidential
talk since that revelation of last Sunday. He had
been more than usually engaged by the business
details of his estate ; and she fancied that he made
the most of all those duties which he used once to perform
with the utmost despatch, grudging every hour
that was spent away from the home circle. He now

complained of the new steward's ignorance, which
threw so much extra work upon himself.

After jogging on for years in the same groove
with a man who knew every rood of my land, and
the idiosyncrasies of every tenant, I find it hard work
teaching a new man' he told his wife.

This sounded reasonable enough, yet she could
hut think that since Sunday he had studiously
avoided being alone with her. If he asked her to
drive or walk with him, he secured Pamela's company
before the excursion was planned.

*' We must show you the country," he said to
his niece.

Mildred told him of the threatened incursion from
Riverdale as they sat at luncheon with Pamela.

**I hope you don't mind my receiving Mrs.
Hillersdon," she said.

No, my dear Mildred, I think it would take a
much worse woman than Mrs. Hillersdon to do you
any harm, or Pamela either. Whatever her early
history may have been, she has made Tom Hillersdon
an excellent wife, and she has been a very good friend
to the poor. I should not have cared for you to cultivate

Mrs. Hillersdon, or the society she brings
round her, at Coverdale  "

Sir Henry says they have people from the music-halls,"
interjected Pamela, in an awe-stricken voice.

'but if Mrs. Hillersdon likes to come here with
her clerical star  "

Don't call him a star, George. He is highly
gifted, and people have chosen to make him the
fashion, but he is the most single-hearted and simpleminded
man I ever met. No popularity could spoil
him. I feel that if he holds out the hand of friendship
to Mrs. Hillersdon, she must be a good woman."

Let her come, Mildred, only don't let her coming
open the door to intimacy. I would not have
my wife the friend of any woman with a history."

' And yet there are histories in most lives, George,
and there is sometimes a mystery."

She could not refrain from this little touch of
bitterness, yet she was sorry the instant she had
spoken, deeply penitent, when she saw the look of
pain in the thoughtful face opposite her. Why
should she wilfully wound him, purposely, needlessly,
she who so fondly loved him, whose keenest pain

was to think that he had loved any woman upon earth

before he loved her ?

Will you be at home to help me to receive my

old friend, George ?" she said, as they rose from the

table.

"Yes, I will be at home to welcome Canceller,

and to protect you from his protegee's influence, if

I can."

They were all three in the drawing-room when
the Coverdale party arrived. Mildred and Mrs.
Hillersdon met in sometime as old acquaintances,
having been thrown together on numerous occasions,
at hunt balls, charity bazaars, and other public
assemblies. Pamela was the only stranger.

Although the scandalous romance of Louise Lorraine's
career was called ancient history, she was
still a beautiful woman. The delicate features, the
pure tones of the alabaster skin, and the large Irish
gray eyes, had been kindly dealt with by time. On
the verge of fifty, Mrs. Hillersdon might have owned
only to forty, had she cared so far to palter with
truth. Her charm was, however, now more in a
fascinating personality than in the remains of a

once dazzling loveliness. There was mind in the
keen, bright face, with its sharply-cut lines, and
those traces of intellectual wear which give a new
grace, instead of the old one of youthful softness and
faultless colouring. The bloom was gone from the
peach, the brilliancy of youth had faded from those
speaking eyes, but there was all the old sweetness
of expression which had made Louise Lorraine's
smile irresistible as the song of the hurled in the days
that were gone. Her dress was perfect, as it had
always been from the day when she threw away her
last cotton stocking, darned by her own fair hands,
and took to dressing like a leader of the great world,
and with perhaps even less concern for cost. She
dressed in perfect harmony with her age and position.
Her gown was of softest black silk, draped with
some semi-diaphanous fabric and clouded with Chantilly
lace. Her bonnet was of the same lace and
gauze, and her tapering hand and slender wrist were
fitted to perfection in a long black glove which meta
cloud of lace just below the elbow.

At a period when almost every woman who wore
black glittered with beads and bugles from head to

VOL. I. 8

foot, Mrs. Hillersdon's costume was unembellished
by a single ornament. The Parisian milliner had
known how to obey her orders to the letter when she
stipulated  siirtout point che jais  and the effect was
at once distinguished and refined.

Clement Canceller greeted his old pupil with
warm friendliness, and meekly accepted her reproaches
for all those invitations which he had refused in the
past ten years.

"You told me so often that it was impossible
for you to come to Enderby, and yet you can go to
my neighbour," she said.

*' My dear Mildred, I went to Coverdale because
I was wanted at Romsey."

And do you think you were not wanted at Romsey
before to-day ?  do you think we should not have
been proud to have you preach in our church here ?
People would have flocked from far and wide to hear
you  yes, even to Enderby Church  and you might
have aided some good work, as you are going to do
tomorrow. How clever of Mrs. Hillersdon to know
how to tempt you down here !"

You may be sure it is not the first time I have

tried, Mrs. Greswold," said that lady, with her fascinating
smile. " Your influence would have gone
further than mine, I daresay, had you taken half as
much trouble as I have done."

Mr. Kollinson, the curate of Enderby, was announced
at this moment. The Vicar was a rich
man with another parish in his cure, and his own
comfortable vicarage and his brother's family mansion
being adjacent to the other church, Enderby
saw him but seldom, whereby Mr. Eollinson was a
person of much more weight in the parish than the
average clerical subaltern. Mildred liked him for
his plain-sailing Christianity and unfailing kindness
to the poor, and she had asked him to tea this
afternoon, knowing that he would like to meet Clement
Canceller.

Castellani looked curiously unlike those, three
other men, with their grave countenances and unstudied
dress; George Greswold roughly clad in
shooting jacket and knickerbockers ; the two priests
in well-worn black. The Italian made a spot of
brightness in that sombre assembly, the sunlight
touching his hair and moustache with glints of

gold, this brown velvet coat and light gray trousers
suggestive of the studio rather than of rustic lanes,
a gardenia in his button-hole, a valuable old intaglio
fastening his white silk scarf, and withal a half-insolent
look of amusement at those two priests and
the sombre-visaged master of the house. He slipped
with serpentine grace to the further side of the
piano, where he contrived his first tete-astute with
Pamela, comfortably sheltered by the great Henri
Deux vase of gloxinias on the instrument.

Pamela was shy at first, and would hardly speak ;
then taking courage, told him how she had wondered
and wept over Nepenthe, and thereupon they began
to talk as if they were two kindred souls that had
been kept too long apart by adverse fate, and thrilled
with the new delight of union.

Round the tea-table the conversation was of a
graver cast. After a general discussion of the
threatening clouds upon the political and ecclesiastical
horizon, the talk had drifted to a question which
at this time was uppermost in the minds of men.
The Deceased Wife's Sister's Bill had been thrown
out by the Upper House during the last session, and

everybody had been talking of that debate in which
three princes of the blood royal had been attentive
auditors. They had recorded their vote on the side
of liberty of conscience, but in vain. Time-honoured
prejudices had prevailed against modern enlightenment.


Clement Canceller was a man who would have
suffered martyrdom for his faith ; he was generous,
he was merciful, gentle, self-sacrificing, pure inspirit;
but he was not liberal-minded. The old
shackles hung heavily upon him. He could not
love Wycliffe; and he could not forgive Cranmer.
He was an ecclesiastic after the antique pattern. To
him the marriage of a priest was a base paltering
with the lusts of the flesh ; and to him a layman's
marriage with a dead wife's sister was unholy and
abominable. He had been moved to indignation by
the words that had been spoken and the pamphlets
that had been written of late upon this question ;
and now, carried away by George Greswold's denunciation
of that prejudiced majority by which the
Bill had been rejected, Mr. Cancellor gave his indignation
full vent, and forgot that he was speaking

in a lady's drawing-room, and before feminine
hearers.

He spoke of such marriages as unholy and immoral,
he spoke of such households as accursed.
Mildred listened to him, and watched him wonderingly,
scared at this unfamiliar aspect of his character.
To her he had ever been the gentlest of teachers
; she saw him now pallid with wrath  she heard
him breathing words of fire.

George Greswold took up the glove, not because
he had ever felt any particular interest in this question,
but because he hated narrow-minded opinions
and clerical prejudices.

Why should the sister of his wife be different
to a man from all other women?" he asked. "You
may call her different  you may set her apart  you
may say she must be to him as his own sister  her
beauty must not touch him, the attractions that
fascinate other men must have no influence over
him. You may lay this down as a law  civil  canonical
 what you will  but the common law of
nature will override your clerical code, will burst
your shackles of prejudice and tradition. Shall

Rachel be withheld from him who was true and
loyal to Leah ? She has dwelt in his house as his
friend, the favourite and playmate of his children.
He has respected her as he would have respected
any other of his wife's girl-friends ; hut he has seen
that she was fair ; and if God takes the wife, and
he, remembering the sweetness of that old friendship,
and his children's love, turns to her as the one
woman who can give him back his lost happiness 
is he to be told that this one woman can never be
his, because she was the sister of his first chosen ?
She has come out of the same stock whose loyalty
he has proved, she would bring to his hearth all the
old sweet associations  "

And she would not bring him a second mother-in-law.
What a stupendous superiority she would
have there /" interjected the jovial Eollinson, who
had been wallowing in hot-buttered cakes and strong-tea,
until his usually roseate visage had become startlingly
rubicund.

He was in all things the opposite of the Vicar of
St. Elizabeth's. He wrote poetry, made puns,
played billiards, dined out at all the houses in the

neighbourhood that were worth dining at, and was
only waiting to marry until Tom Hillersdon should
be able to give him a living.

Mr. Cancellor reproved the ribald jester with a
scathing look before he took up the argument against
his host.

If this Bill were to pass, no virtuous woman
could live in the house of a married sister," he said.

That is as much as to say that no honest
woman can live in the house of any married man,"
retorted Greswold hotly. *'Do you think if a man
is weak enough to fall in love with another woman
under his wife's roof he is less likely to sin because
your canonical law stares him in the face, telling
him, ' Thou canst never wed her '? The married
man who is inconstant to his wife is not influenced
by the chances of the future. He is either a bold,
bad man, whose only thought is to win the woman
whom he loves at any cost of honour or conscience ;
or he is a weak fool, who drifts hopelessly to destruction,
and in whom the resolution of to-day yields to
the temptation of tomorrow. Neither the bold sinner
nor the weak one is influenced by the consideration

whether he can or cannot marry the woman he loves
under the unlikely circumstance of his wife's untimely
death. The man who does so calculate is the one
man in so many thousands of men who will poison
his wife to clear the way for his new fancy. I don't
think we ought to legislate for poisoners. In plain
words, if a married man is weak enough or wicked
enough to be seduced by the charms of any woman
who dwells beneath his roof, he will not be the less
likely to fall because the law of the land has made
that woman anathema maranatha, or because he has
been warned from the pulpit that she is to be to him
as his own flesh and blood, no dearer and no less
dear than the sister beside whom he grew from
infancy to manhood, and whom he has loved all his
life, hardly knowing whether she is as beautiful as
Hebe or as hideous as Tisyphone."

You are a disciple of the New Learning, Mr.
Greswold," Cancellor said bitterly; "the learning
which breaks down all barriers and annihilates the
Creator of all things  the learning which has degraded
God from infinite power to infinitesimal
insignificance, and which explains the genius of

Plato and Shakespeare, Luther and Newton, as
the ultimate outcome of an unconscious primeval
mist."

"I am no Darwinian," replied Greswold coldly,
but I would rather belong to his school of speculative
inquiry than to the Calvinism which slew
Servetus, or the Romanism which lit the death-pile
of the Oxford martyrs."

Mildred was not more anxious than Mrs. Millers
to end a discussion which threatened angry
feeling. They looked at each other in an agony,
and then with a sudden inspiration Mildred exclaimed,


"If we could only persuade Mr. Castellani to
play to us ! We are growing so terribly serious;"
and then she went to Clement Cancellor, who was
standing by the open window, and took her place
beside him, while Mrs. Hillersdon talked with Pamela
and Castellani at the piano. " You know what a
privilege it is to me always to hear you talk," she
murmured in her sweet, subdued voice. " You know
how I have followed your teaching in all things.
And be assured my husband is no materialist. We

both cling to the old faith, the old hopes, the old
promises. You must not misjudge him because of
a single difference of opinion."

"Forgive me, my dear Mildred," replied Cancellor,
touched by her submission. *'I did wrong to
be angry. I know that to many good Christians
this question of marriage with a sister-in-law is a
stumbling-block. I have taken the subject too
deeply to heart perhaps  I, to whom marriage altogether
seems outside the Christian priest's horizon.
Perhaps I may exaggerate the peril of a wider
liberty ; but I, who look upon Henry VIII. as the
arch-enemy of the one vital Church  of which he
might have been the wise and enlightened reformer
I, who trace to his unhallowed union with his
brother's widow all the after evils of his career 
must needs lift up my voice against a threatened
danger."

Castellani began Mendelssohn's " Wedding
March " with a triumphant burst that sounded like
mockery. Do what the preacher might to assimilate
earth to heaven, here there would still be marrying
and giving in marriage.

After the march Mildred went over to the piano
and asked Castellani to sing.

He smiled assent, and played the grief symphony
to a ballad of Heine's, set hy Jensen. The exquisite
tenor voice, the perfect taste of the singer, held his
audience spellbound. They listened in silence, and
entreated him to sing again, and then again, till he
had sung four of these jewel-like ballads, and they
felt that it was impertinence to ask for more.

Mildred had stolen round to her own sheltered
corner, half hidden by a group of tall palms. She
sat with her hands clasped in her lap, her head bent.
She could not see the singer. She only heard the
low pathetic voice, slightly veiled. It touched her
like no other voice that she had ever heard since, in
her girlhood, she burst into a passion of sobs at first
hearing Sims Reeves, when that divine voice touched
some hyper sensitive chord in her own organisation
and moved her almost to hysteria. And now, in this
voice of the man who of all other men she instinctively
disliked, the same tones touched the same
chord, and loosened the floodgates of her tears.
She sat with streaming eyes, grateful for the sheltering

foliage which screened her from observation.


She dried her eyes and recovered herself with
difficulty when the singer rose from the piano and
Mrs. Hillersdon began to take leave. Mr. Rollinson
button-holed Castellani on the instant.

"You sing as if you had just come from the
seraphic choir," he said. " You must sing for us on
the seventh."

Who are * us ' ?". asked Castellani.

** Our concert in aid of the fund for putting a
Burne-Jones window over the altar."

"A concert in Enderby village? Is it to be
given at the lock-up or in the pound ?"

It is to be given in this room. Mrs. Greswold
has been good enough to allow us the use of her
drawing-room and her piano. Miss Ransome promises
to preside at the buffet for tea and coffee."

It will be glorious fun," exclaimed Pamela ;
** I shall feel like a barmaid. I have always envied
barmaid."

"Daudet says there is one effulgent spot in
every man's life  one supreme moment when he

stands on the mountain-top of fortune and of bliss,
and from which all the rest of his existence is a
gradual descent. I wonder whether that afternoon
will be your effulgent spot, Miss Kansome ?" said
Mrs. Hillersdon laughingly.

"It will  it must. To superintend two great
urns of tea and coffee  almost as nice as those
delicious beer-engines one sees at Salisbury Station
to charge people a shilling for a small cup of tea,
and sixpence for a penny sponge-cake. What splendid
fun !"

Will you help us, Mr. Castleton ?" asked the
curate, who was not good at names.

"Mrs. Greswold has only to command me. I
am in all things her slave."

Then she will command you  she does command
you," cried the curate.

If you will be so very kind  " began Mildred.

I am only too proud to obey you," answered
Castellani, with more earnestness than the occasion
required, drawing a little nearer to Mildred as he
spoke ; " only too glad of an excuse to return to this
house."

Mildred looked at liirn with a half-frightened
expression, and then glanced at Pamela. Did he
mean mischief of some kind ? Was this the beginning
of an insidious pursuit of that frank girl, whose
fortune was quite enough to tempt the casual adventurer
?

Of all men I have ever seen he is the last to
whom I would entrust a girl's fate," thought Mildred,
determined to be very much on her guard against
the blandishments of Cesar Castellani.

She took the very worst means to ward off danger.
She made the direful mistake of warning the girl
against the possible pursuer that very evening when
they were sitting alone after dinner.

"He is a man I could never trust," she said.

"No more could I," replied Pamela; "but 0,
how exquisitely he sings !" and excited at the mere
memory of that singing, she ran to the piano and
began to pick out the melody of Heine's *' Ici weiss
night was soil es bedeuten," and sang the words
softly in her girlish voice; and then slipped away
from the piano with a nervous little laugh.

Upon my word, Aunt Mildred, I am traurig

myself at the very thought of that exquisite song,"
she said. " What a gift it is to sing like that ! How
I wish I were Cesar Castellani !"

*' What, when we have loth agreed that he is nota
good man ?"

"Who cares about being good exclaimed
Pamela, beside herself; " three-fourths of the people
of this world are good. But to be able to write a
book that can unsettle every one's religion ; to be able
to make everybody miserable when one sings ! Those
are gifts that place a man on a level with the Greek
gods. If I were Mr. Castellani I should feel like
Mercury or Apollo."

Pamela, you frighten me when you rave like
that. Remember that, for all we know to the contrary,
this man may be a mere adventurer, and in
every way dangerous."

Why should we think him an adventurer ? He
told me all about himself. He told me that his
grandfather was under obligations to your grandfather.
He told me about his father, the composer,
who wrote operas which are known all over Italy, and
who died young, like Mozart and Mendelssohn.

Genius is hereditary with him ; he was suckled upon
art. I have no doubt he is bad, irretrievably bad,"
said Pamela, with unction ; " but don't try to persuade
me that he is a vulgar adventurer who would try to
borrow five-pound notes, or a fortune-hunter who
would try to marry one for one's money," concluded
the girl, falling back upon her favourite form of
speech

VOL. I.

LIFTING THE CURTAIN.

The charity concert afforded Cesar Castellani just
the necessary excuse for going to Enderby Manor
House as often as he liked, and for staying there
as long as he liked. He was now on a familiar
footing He drove or rode over from Riverdale
nearly every day during the three weeks that intervened
between Mr. Canceller's sermon and the afternoon
concert. He made himself the curate's right
hand in all the details of the entertainment. He
chose the music, he wrote the programme, he sent it
to his favourite printer to be printed in antique
type upon ribbed paper with ragged edges : a perfect
gem in the way of a programme. He scoured the
country round in quest of amateur talent, and was
much more successful than the curate had been in
the same quest.

*' I'm astounded at your persuading Lady Mill-borough

to show in the daylight," said Eollinson,
laughing. " You have the tongue of the serpent to overcome
her objection to the glare of the afternoon sun."

Estate prude notes sicut serpentes, saidCastellani.
There's a fine old ecclesiastic's motto for you. I
know Lady Millborough rather dreads the effect of
sunlight upon her nacre Bernhardt. She told me
that she was never equal to singing in the afternoon
: the glare of the sun always gave her a headache.
But I assured her in the first place that there
should be no glare  that as an artist I abhorred a
crude, white light  and that it should be my business
to see that our concert-room was lighted upon
purely aesthetic principles. We would have the dim
religious light which painters and poets love. In
the second place I assured her that she had as fine a
contralto as Madame Alboni, on whose knees I had
often sat as a child, and who gave me the emerald pin
I was wearing."

"My hat, what a man you are !" exclaimed Ellison.
"But do you mean to say we are to give
our concert in the dark ?"

We will not have the afternoon sun blinding:

half our audience. We will have the auditorium ina
cool twilight, and we will have lamplight on our
platform  just that mellow and flattering light in
which elderly women look young and young women
angelic."

** We'll leave everything to you," cried the curate.
''I think we ought to leave him free scope; ought
we not, Mrs. Greswold ?"

Mildred assented. Pamela was enthusiastic.
This concert was to be one of the events of her life.
Castellani had discovered that she possessed a charming
mezzo-soprano. She was to sing a duet with
him. 0, what rapture ! A duet of his own composition,
all about roses and love and death.

'Twere sweet to die as the roses die,

If I had but lived for thee ;
A Hfe as long as the nightingale's song
Were enough for my heart and me."

The words and the voices were interwoven in a
melodious web ; tenor and soprano entwined together
following and ever following like the phrases in an
anthem.

The preparation of this one duet alone obliged

Mr. Castellani to be nearly every day at Enderby. A
musician has inexhaustible patience in teaching his
own music. Castellani hammered at every bar and
every note with Pamela. He did not hesitate at
unpleasant truth. She had received the most expensive
instruction from a well-known singing-master,
and, according to Castellani, everything she had been
taught was wrong. " If you had been left alone to
sing as the birds sing you would be ever so much
better off," he said ; *' the man has murdered a very
fine organ. If I had had the teaching of you, you
would have sung as well as Trebelli by this time."

Pamela thrilled at the thought. 0, to sing like
some great singer  to be able to soar skyward on the
wings of music  to sing as he sang ! She had
known him a fortnight by this time, and was deeply
in love with him. In moments of confidence by the
piano he called her Pamela, treating her almost as if
she were a child, yet with a touch of gallantry always
an air that said, *you are beautiful, dear child,
and you know it ; but I have lived my life." Before
Mrs. Greswold he was more formal, and called her
Miss Kansome.

All barriers were clown now between Riverdale
and the Manor. Mrs. Hillersdon was going to make
an extra large house-party on purpose to patronise
the concert. It was to be on the 7th of September :
the partridge-shooting would be in full swing, and
the shooters assembled. Mrs. Greswold had been
to tea at Riverdale. There seemed to be no help
for it, and George Greswold was apparently indifferent.


*' My dearest, your purity of mind will be in no
danger from Mrs. Hillersdon. Even were she still
Louise Lorraine, she could not harm you  and you
know I am not given to consider the qu'on dira son
in such a case. Let her come here by all means, so
long as she is not obnoxious to you."

She is far from that. I think she has the
most delightful manners of any woman I ever met."

So, no doubt, had Circe, yet she changed men
into swine."

Mr. Canceller would not believe in her if she
were not a good woman."

"I should set a higher value on Cancellor's
opinion if he were more of a man of the world, and

less of a bigot. See what nonsense lie talked about
the Deceased Wife's Sister's Bill."

** Nonsense ! 0, George, if you knew how it
distressed me to hear you take the other side  the
unchristian side !"

"I can find no word of Christ's against such
marriages, and the Church of old was always ready
with a dispensation for any such union, if it was
made worth the Church's while to be indulgent. It
was the earnest desire of the Woman Catholic world
that Philip should marry Elizabeth. You are Cancellor's
pupil, Mildred, and I cannot wonder if he has
made you something of a bigot."

*' He is the noblest and most unselfish of men."

"I admit his unselfishness  the purity of his
intentions  the tenderness of his heart ; but I deny
his nobility. Ecclesiastic narrow-mindedness spoils
a character that might have been perfect had it been
less hampered by tradition. Cancellor is a couple of
centuries behind the time. His Church is the
Church of Laud."

I thought you admired and loved him, George,"
said Mildred regretfully.

"I admire bis good qualities, Hove him for his
thoroughness; but our creeds are wide apart. I
cannot even pretend to think as be thinks."

This confession increased Mildred's sadness.
She would have had her husband think as she
thought, believe as she believed, in all spiritual
things. The beloved child they had lost was waiting
for them in heaven ; and she would fain that
they should both tread the same path to that better
world where there would be no more tears, no more
death  where day and night would be alike in the
light of the great Throne. She shuddered at the
thought of any difference of creed on her husband's
part, shuddered at that beginning of divergence which
might end in infidelity. She had been educated by
Clement Cancellor, and she thought as he thought.
It seemed to her that she was surrounded by an
atmosphere of doubt. In the books she read
among the more cultivated people whom she met, she
found the same tendency to speculative infidelity, pessimism,
Darwinism, sociology, Pantheism, anything but
Christian belief. The nearest approach to religious
feeling seemed to be found in the theosophists, with

their last fashionable Oriental improvements upon
the teaching of Christ.

Clement Cancellor had trained her in the belief
that there was one Church, one creed, one sovereign
rule of life, outside which rigid boundary-line lay
the dominion of Satan. And now, seeing her husband's
antagonism to her pastor upon this minor
point of the marriage law, she began to ask herself
whether those two might not stand as widely apart
upon graver questions  whether George Greswold
might not be one of those half-hearted Christians who
attend their parish church and keep Sunday sacred because
it is well to set a good example to their neighbours
and dependants, while their own faith is little
more than a memory of youthful beliefs, the fading
reflection of a sun that has sunk below the horizon.

She had discovered her husband capable of a
suppression of truth that was almost as bad as falsehood
; and now having begun to doubt his conscientiousness,
it was not unnatural that she should
begin to doubt his religious feeling.

"Had he been as deeply religious as I thought
him, he would not have so deceived me," she told

herself, still brooding upon that mystery of his first
marriage.

Castellani's presence in the house was a continual
irritation to her. It tortured her to think
that he knew more of her husband's past life than
was known to her. She longed to question him,
yet refrained, feeling that there would be unspeakable
meanness, treachery even, in obtaining any
information about her husband's past life except
from his own lips. He had chosen to keep silence,
he who could so easily have explained all things ;
and it was her duty to submit

She tried to be interested in the concert, which
involved a good deal of work for herself, as she was
to play all the accompaniments, the piano part in a
conversant duet by De Heriot with an amateur violin
player, and a Hungarian march by a modern classic
by way of overture. There were rehearsals nearly
every day, with much talk and tea-drinking. Enderby
Manor seemed given over to bustle and gaiety 
that grave old house, which to her mind ought to
have been silent as a sepulchre, now that Lola's voice
could sound there never more, except in dreams.

'people must think I am forgetting her," she
said to herself with a sigh, when half-a-dozen carriages
had driven away from the door, after two hours
of bustle and confusion, much discussion as to the
choice of songs and the arrangement of the programme,
which everybody wanted different.

'* I cannot possibly sing ' The Three Fishers 
after Captain Scobell's ' Wanderer,' " protested Lady
Millborough. " It would never do to have two
dismal songs in succession."

Yet when it was proposed that her ladyship's
song should succeed Mr. Eollinson's admirable rendering
of George Grossmith's " He was such a
Careless Man," she distinctly refused to sing immediately
after a comic song.

"I am not going to take the taste of Mr. Ellison's
vulgarity out of people's mouths," she told
Mildred, in an audible aside.

To these God-gifted vocalists the accompanied
was as an inferior being, a person with a mere
mechanical gift of playing anything set before her
with taste and style. They treated her as if she
had been a machine

If you wouldn't mind going over our duet just
once more, I think we should feel more comfortable
in it," said one of the two Miss Lancaster, who were
to take the roof off, metaphorically, in the Norma
duet.

Mildred toiled with unwavering good-nature, and
suppressed her shudders at many a false note, and
cast oil on the waters when the singers were inclined
to quarrel. She was glad of the drudgery
that kept her fingers and her mind occupied; she
was glad of any distraction that changed the current
of her thoughts.

It was the day before the concert. Cesar Castellani
had established himself as Rami de la maison,
a person who had the right to come in and out ashe
liked, whose coming and going made no difference
to the master of the house. Had George
Greswold's mind been less abstracted from the
business of everyday life he might have seen danger
to Pamela Ransome's peace of mind in the frequent
presence of the Italian, and he might have considered
it his duty, as the young lady's kinsman, to have

restricted Mr. Castellani's privileges. But the blow
which had crushed George Greswold's heart a little
more than a year ago had left him in sometime a
broken man. He had lost all interest in the common
joys and occupations of every-day life. His
days were spent for the most part in long walks or
rides in the loneliest places he could find, his only
evening amusement was found in books, and those
books of a kind which engrossed his attention and
took him out of himself. His wife's companionship
was always precious to him ; but their intercourse
had lost all its old gaiety and much of the old familiarity.
There was an indefinable something which
held them asunder even when they were sitting in
the same room, or pacing side by side, just as of old,
upon the lawn in front of the drawing-room, or
idling in their summer parlour in the shade of the
cedars.

Again and again in the last three weeks some
question about the past had trembled upon Mildred's
lips as she sat at work by the piano where Castellani
played in dreamy idleness, wandering from one
master to another, or extemporising after his own

capricious fancies. Again and again she had struggled
against the temptation and had conquered.
No, she would not stoop to a meanness. She would
not be disloyal to her husband by so much as one
idle question.

To-day Castellani was in high spirits, proud of
tomorrow's anticipated success, in which his own
exertions would count for much. He sat at the
piano in a leisure hour after tea. All the performers
had gone, after the final adjustment of
every detail. Mildred sat idle with her head resting
against the cushion of a high-backed armchair, exhausted
by the afternoon's labours. Pamela stood
by the piano watching and listening delightedly as
Castellani improvised.

I will give you my musical transcript of St.
Partridge Day," he said, smiling down at the notes
as he played a lively melody with little rippling runs
in the treble and crisp staccato chords in the bass.
This is morning, and all the shooters are on tiptoe
with delight  a misty morning," gliding into a
dreamy legato movement as he spoke. " You can
scarcely see the hills yonder, and the sun is not yet

Up. See there he leaps above that bank of purple
cloud, and all is brightness," changing to crashing
chords in the bass and brilliant arpeggios in the
treble. " Hark ! there is chanticleer. How shrill
he peals in the morning air ! The dogs are leaving
the kennel  and now the gates are open, dogs and
men are in the road. You can hear the steady
tramp of the clumsy shooting-boots  your dreadful
English boots  and the merry music of the dogs.
Pointers, setters, spaniels, smooth beasts and curly
beasts, shaking the dew from the hedgerows as they
scramble along the banks, flying over the ditches 
creatures of lightning swiftness ; yes, even those fat
heavy spaniels which seem made to sprawl and snap
at flies in the sunshine or snore beside the fire."

He talked in brief snatches, playing all the time
playing with the easy brilliancy, the unerring
grace of one to whom music is a native tongue  as
natural a mode of thought-expression as speech
itself. His father had trained him to improvise,
weaving reminiscences of all his favourite composers
into those dreamy reveries. They had sat side by
side, father and son, each following the bent of his

own fancy, yet quick to adapt it to the other, now
leading, now following. They had played together
as Moscheles and Mendelssohn used to play, delighting
in each other's caprices.

I hope I don't lore you very much," said Castellani,
looking up at Mildred as she sat silent, the
fair face and pale gold hair defined against the olive
brocade of the chair cushion.

He looked up at her in wondering admiration, as
at a beautiful picture. How lovely she was, with a
loveliness that grew upon him, and took possession
of his fancy and his senses with a strengthening
hold day by day. It was a melancholy loveliness,
the beauty of a woman whose life had come to a dead
stop, in whose breast hope and love were dead  or
dormant.

Not dead," he told himself, " only sleeping.
Whose shall be the spell to awaken the sleepers.
Who shall be the Orpheus to bring this sweet
Eurydice from the realms of Death ?"

Such thoughts were in his mind as he sat looking
at her, waiting for her answer, playing all the
while, telling her how fair she was in the tenderest

variations of an old German air whose every note
breathed passionate love.

"How sweet!" murmured Pamela; "what an
exquisite melody !" taking some of the sweetness to
herself. "How could such sweetness weary any one
with the ghost of an ear ? You are not bored by it,
are you, aunt ?"

"Bored? no, it is delightful," answered Mildred,
rousing herself from a reverie. " My thoughts
went back to my childhood while you were playing.
I never knew but one other person who had that
gift of improvisation, and she used to play to me
when I was a child. She was almost a child herself,
and of course she was very inferior to you as a
pianist; but she would sit and play to me for an
hour in the twilight, inventing new melodies, or
playing recollections of old melodies, describing in
music. The old fairy tales are for ever associated
with music in my mind, because of those memories.
I believe she was highly gifted in music."

"Music of a high order is not an uncommon
gift among women of sensitive temperament," said
Castellani musingly. " I take it to be only another

VOL. I. u

name for sympathy. Want of musical feeling is
want of sympathy. Shakespeare knew that when he
declared the non-musical man to be by nature a
villain. I could no more imagine you without the
gift of music than I could imagine the stars without
the quality of light. Mr. Greswold's first wife was
a good musician, as no doubt you know."

'* You heard her play  and sing ?" faltered Mildred,
avoiding a direct reply.

The sudden mention of her dead rival's name
had quickened the beating of her heart. She had
longed to question him and had refrained ; and
now, without any act of hers, he had spoken, and
she was going to hear something about that woman
whose existence was a mystery to her, whose Christian
name she had never heard.

Yes, I heard her several times at parties at
Nice. She was much admired for her musical
talents. She was not a grand singer, but she had
been well taught, and she had exquisite taste, and
knew exactly the kind of music that suited her best.
She was one of the attractions at the Palais Montano,
where one heard only the best music."

*' I think you said the other day that you did
not meet her often," said Mildred. " My husband
could hardly have forgotten you had you met
frequently."

I can scarcely say that we met frequently, and
our meetings were such as Mr. Greswold would not
be very likely to remember. I am not a remarkable
man now, and I was a very insignificant person fifteen
years ago. I was only asked to people's houses
because I could sing a little, and because my father
had a reputation in the South as a composer. I was
never introduced to your husband, but I was presented
to his wife  as a precocious youth with some
pretensions to a tenor voice  and I found her very
charming  after her own particular style."

"Was she a beautiful woman?" asked Mildred.
*' I  I  have never talked about her to my husband,
she died so young, and  "

*' Yes, yes, I understand," interrupted Castellani,
as she hesitated. " Of course you would not speak
of her. There are things that cannot be spoken
about. There is always a skeleton in every life 
not more in Mr. Greswold's past than in that of

other people, perhaps, could we know all histories.
I was wrong to speak of her. Her name escaped me
unawares."

"Pray don't apologise," said Mildred, indignant
at something in his tone, which hinted at wrongdoing
on her husband's part. " There can be no
reason why you should keep silence  to me ; though
any mention of an old sorrow might wound him, I
know my husband too well not to know that he must
have behaved honourably in every relation of life 
before I married him as well as afterwards. I only
asked a very simple question : was my predecessor
as beautiful as she was gifted ?"

"No. She was charming, piquant, elegant, spiritually,
but she was not handsome. I think she was
conscious of that want of beauty, and that it made
her sensitive, and even bitter. I have heard her
say hard things of women who were handsomer than
herself. She had a scathing tongue and a capricious
temper, and she was not a favourite with her own
sex, though she was very much admired by clever
men. I know that as a lad I thought her one of
the brightest women I had ever met."

It was sad that she should die so young," said
Mildred.

She would not for worlds that this man should
know the extent of her ignorance about the woman
who had borne her husband's name. She spoke
vaguely, hoping that he would take it for granted
she knew all.

"Yes," assented Castellani with a sigh, "her
death was infinitely sad."

He spoke as of an event of more than common
sadness  a calamity that had been in sometime
more tragical than untimely death must needs
be.

Mildred kept silence, though her heart ached
with shapeless forebodings, and though it would
have been an unspeakable relief to know the worst
rather than to feel the oppression of this mystery.

Castellani rose to take leave. He was paler
than he had been before the conversation began, and
he had a troubled air. Pamela looked at him with
sympathetic distress. " I am afraid you are dreadfully
tired," she said, as they shook hands.

I am never tired in this house," he answered ;

and Pamela appropriated the compliment by her
Vivid blush.

Mildred shook hands with him mechanically and
in silence. She was hardly conscious of his leaving
the room. She rose and went out into the garden,
while Pamela sat down to the piano and began singing
her part in the everlasting duet. She never
sang anything else nowadays. It was a perpetual
carol of admiration for the author of Nepenthe,

** 'Twere sweet to die as the roses die,
If I had but lived for thee ;
'Twere sweet to fade as the twilight fades
Over the western sea,"

she warbled, while Mildred paced slowly to and fro
in front of the cedars, brooding over every word Castellani
had spoken about her husband's first wife.

"Her death was infinitely sad."

Why infinitely? The significance of the word
troubled her. It conjured up all manner of possibilities.
Why infinitely sad ? All death is sad.
The death of the young especially so. But to say
even of a young wife's death that it was infinitely sad
would seem to lift it out of the region of humanity's

common doom. That qualifying word hinted at a
tragical fate rather than a young life cut short by
any ordinary malady. There had been something in
Castellani's manner which accentuated the meaning
of his words. That troubled look, that deep sigh,
that hurried departure, all hinted at a painful story
which he knew and did not wish to reveal.

He had in a manner apologised for speaking of
George Greswold's first wife. There must have
been a reason for that. He was not a man to say
meaningless things out of gaucherie ; not a man to
blunder and equivocate from either shyness or stupidity.
He had implied that Mr. Greswold was not
likely to talk about his first marriage  that he would
naturally avoid any allusion to his first wife.

Why naturally ? Why should he not speak of
that past life? Men are not ordinarily reticent
upon such subjects. And that a man should suppress
the fact of a first marriage altogether would
suggest memories so dark as to impel an honourable
man to stoop to a tacit lie rather than face the horror
of revelation.

She walked up and down that fair stretch of

THE FATAL THREE.

velvet turf upon which her feet had trodden so
lightly in the happy years that were gone  gone
never to be recalled, as it seemed to her, carrying
with them all that she had ever known of domestic
peace, of wedded bliss. Never again could they two
be as they had been. The mystery of the past had
risen up between them  like some hooded phantom,
a vaguely threatening figure, a hidden face  to hold
them apart for evermore.

If he had only trusted me," she thought despairingly,
" there is hardly any sin that I would not
have forgiven for love of him. Why could he not
believe in my love well enough to know that I should
judge him leniently  if there had been wrongdoing
on his side  if  if  "

She had puzzled over that hidden past, trying to
penetrate the darkness, imagining the things that
might have happened  infidelity on the wife's part
infidelity on the husband's side  another and
fatal attachment taking the place of loyal love. Sin
of some kind there must have been, she thought ;
for such dark memories could scarcely be sinless.
But was husband or wife the sinner ?

Her death was infinitely sad."

That sentence stood out against the dark background
of mystery as if written in fire. That one
fact was absolute. George Greswold's first wife had
died under circumstances of peculiar sadness; so
painful that Castellani's countenance grew pale and
troubled at the very thought of her death.

I cannot endure it," Mildred thought at last, in
an agony of doubt. " I will not suffer this torture
for another day. I will appeal to him. I will question
him. If he values my love and my esteem he
will answer faithfully. It must be painful for him,
painful for me ; but it will be far better for us both
in the long-run. Anything will be better than
these torturing fears. I am his wife, and I have a
right to know the truth."

The dressing-gong summoned her back to the
house. Her husband was in the drawing - room
half-an-hour afterwards, when she went down to
dinner. He was still in his jacket and knickerbockers,
just as he had come in from a long ramble.

Will you forgive me if I dine with you in these
clothes, Mildred, and you, Pamela ?" to the damsel

in white muslin, whom he had just surprised at the
piano still warbling her honeyed strain about death
and the roses ; *' I came in five minutes ago  dead
beat. I have been in the forest, and had a tramp
with the greyhounds over Bramble Hill."

You walk too far, George. You are looking
dreadfully tired."

'i'm sure you needn't apologise for your dress
on my account," said Pamela. "Henry is a perfect
disgrace half his time. He hates evening-clothes,
and I sometimes fear he hates soap-antipater. He
can reconcile his conscience to any amount of dirt
so long as he has his cold tub in the morning. He
thinks that one sacrifice to decency justifies anything.
I have had to sit next him at dinner when
became straight from rats," concluded Pamela, with
a shudder. " But Kosalind is so foolishly indulgent.
She would spoil twenty husbands."

"And you, I suppose, would be a martinet to
one ?" said Greswold, smiling at the girl's animated
face.

"It would depend. If I were married to an
artist I could forgive any neglect of the proprieties.

One does not expect a man of that kind to bethe
slave of conventionalities ; but a commonplace
person like Sir Henry Montfort has nothing to
recommend him but his tailor."

They went to dinner, and Pamela's prattle
relieved the gloom which had fallen upon husband
and wife. George Greswold saw that there were signs
of a new trouble in his wife's face. He sat for nearly
an hour alone with the untouched decanters before
him, and with Kassandra's head upon his knee. The
dog always knew when his thoughts were darkest, and
would not be repulsed at such times. She was not
obtrusive : she only wanted to bear him company.

It was nearly ten o'clock when he left the diningroom.
He looked in at the drawing-room door, and
saw his wife and his niece sitting at work, silent
both.

I am going to the library to write some letters,
Mildred," he said : " don't sit up for me."

She rose quickly and went over to him.

Let me have half-an-hour's talk with you first?
George," she said, in an earnest voice : " I want so
much to speak to you."

My dearest, I am always at your service," he
answered quietly; and they went across the hall
together, to that fine old room which was essentially
the domain of the master of the house.

It was a large room with three long narrow
windows  unaltered from the days of Queen Anne 
looking out to the carriage-drive in the front of the
house, and the walls were lined with books, in severely
architectural bookcases. There was a lofty marble
chimney piece, richly decorated, and in front of the
fireplace there was an old-fashioned knee-hole desk,
at which Mr. Greswold was wont to sit. There
was a double reading-lamp ready-lighted for him
upon this desk, and there was no other light in the
room. By this dim light the sombre colouring
of oak bookcases and maroon velvet window-curtains
deepened to black. The spacious room had almost
a funereal aspect, like that awful banqueting-hall
to which Domitian invited his parasites and straightway
frightened them to death.

"Well, Mildred, what is the matter?" asked
Greswold, when his wife had seated herself beside
him in front of the massive oak desk at which all

the business of his estate had been transacted since
he came to Enderby. " There is nothing amiss,
love, I hope, to make you so earnest ?"

*' There is something very much amiss, George,"
she answered. " Forgive me if I pain you by what
I have to say  by the questions I am going to ask.
I cannot help giving you pain, truly and dearly
as I love you. I cannot go on suffering as I have
suffered since that wretched Sunday afternoon
when I discovered how you had deceived me  you
whom I so trusted, so honoured as the most upright
among men'*

"It is a little hard that you should say I
deceived you, Mildred. I suppressed one fact which
had no bearing upon my relations with you."

You must have signed your name to a falsehood
in the register, if you described yourself as a
bachelor."

"I did not so describe myself. I confided the
fact of my first marriage to your father on the eve
of our wedding. I told him why I had been silent 
told him that my past life had been steeped in
bitterness. He was generous enough to accept

my confidence and to ask no questions. My bride
was too shy and too agitated to observe what I
wrote in the register, or else she might have noted
the word * widower ' after my name."

Thank God you did not sign your name to
a lie," said Mildred, with a sigh of relief.

** I am sorry my wife of fourteen years should
think me capable of falsehood on the document
that sealed my fate with hers."

0, George, I know how true you are  how
true and upright you have been in every word
and act of your life since we two have been one.
It is not in my nature to misjudge you. I cannot
think you capable of wrong-doing to any one under
strongest temptation. I cannot believe that Fate
could set such a snare for you as could entrap you
into one dishonourable act ; but I am tortured by
the thought of a past life of which I know nothing.
Why did you hide your marriage from me when
we were lovers? Why are you silent and secret
now, when I am your wife, the other half of yourself,
ready to sympathise with you, to share the burden
of dark memories ? Trust me, George. Trust me,

dear love, and let us be again as we have been,
united in every thought."

You do not know what you are asking me,
Mildred," said George Greswold, in his deep, grave
voice, looking at her with haggard reproachful
eyes. " You cannot measure the torture you are
inflicting by this aimless curiosity."

You cannot measure the agony of doubt which
I have suffered since I knew that you loved another
woman before you loved me  loved her so well
that you cannot bear even to speak of that past life
which you lived with her  regret her so intensely
that now, after fourteen years of wedded life with me,
the mere memory of that lost love can plunge
you into gloom and despair," said Mildred passionately.


That smothered fire of jealousy which had been
smouldering in her breast for weeks broke out all
at once in impetuous speech. She no longer cared
what she said. Her only thought was that the
dead love had been dearer than the living, that she
had been cozened by a lover whose heart had never
been wholly hers.

"You are very cruel, Mildred," her husband
answered quietly. " You are probing an old wound,
and a deep one, to the quick. You wrong yourself
more than you wrong me by causeless jealousy
and unworthy doubts. Yes, I did conceal the fact
of my first marriage  not because I had loved my
wife too well, but because I had not loved her well
enough. I was silent about a period of my life
which was one of intense misery  which it was my
duty to myself to forget, if it were possible to forget
which it was perilous to remember. My only
chance of happiness  or peace of mind  lay in
oblivion of that bitter time. It was only when I
loved you that I began to believe forgetfulness was
possible. I courted oblivion by every means in my
power. I told myself that the man who had so
suffered was a man who had ceased to exist. George
Ransome was dead. George Greswold stood on the
threshold of a new life, v/ith infinite capacities for
happiness. I told myself that I might be a beloved
and honoured husband  which I had never been 
a useful member of society  which I had not been
hitherto. Until that hour all things had been

against me. With you for my wife all things would
be in my favour. For thirteen happy years this
promise of our marriage morning was fully realised ;
then came our child's death ; and now comes your
estrangement."

"I am not estranged, George. It is only my
dread of the beginning of estrangement which tortures
me. Since that man spoke of your first wife,
I have brooded perpetually upon that hidden past.
It is weak, I know, to have done so. I ought to
trust unquestioningly : but I cannot, I cannot. I
love you too well to love without jealousy."

Well, let the veil be lifted then, since it must
be so. Ask what questions you please, and I wil
answer them  as best I can."

You are very good," she faltered, drawing a
little nearer to him, leaning her head against his
shoulder as she talked to him, and laying her hand
on his as it lay before him on the desk, tightly
clenched. '' Tell me, dear, were you happy with
your first wife ?"

"I was not."

*' Not even in the beginning ?"

VOL. I.

Hardly in the beginning. It was an ill-advised
union, the result of impulse."

But she loved you very dearly, perhaps."

** She loved me  dearly  after her manner of
loving."

*' And you did not love her ?"

"It is a cruel thing you force me to say, Mildred.
No, I did not love her."

Had you been married long when she died ?"

She felt a quivering movement in the clenched
hand on which her own lay caressingly, and she
heard him draw a long and deep breath.

"About a year."

Her death was a sad one, I know. Did she go
out of her mind before she died ?"

"No."

Did she leave you  or do you any great wrong?"

No."

"Were you false to her, George  0, forgive
me, forgive me  but there must have been something
more sad than common sadness, and it might
be that some new and fatal love  "

There was no such thing," he answered sternly.

' I was true to my duties as a husband. It was nota
long trial  only a year. Even a profligate might
keep faith for so short a span."

'* I see you will not confide in me. I will ask
no more questions, George. That kind of catechism
will not make us more in sympathy with each other.
I will ask you nothing more  except  just one
question  a woman's question. Was your first
wife beautiful in your e-es."

She was not beautiful ; but she was intellectual,
and she had an interesting countenance  a face that
attracted me at first sight. It was even more attractive
to me than the faces of handsomer women. But
if you want to know what your fancied rival was like
you need not languish in ignorance," with some touch
of scorn. *' I have her photograph in this desk. I
have kept it for my days of humiliation, to remind
me of what I have been and what I may be again.
Would you like to see it ?"

Yes, George, if it will not pain you too much
to show it to me."

"Do not talk of pain. You have stirred the
waters of March so deeply that one more bitter drop

cannot signify." He unlocked his desk as lie spoke,
lifted the lid, which was sustained hy a movable
upright, and groped among the accumulation of
papers and parchments inside.

The object for which he was seeking was at the
back of the desk, under all the papers. He found
it by touch : a morocco case containing a cabinet
photograph. Mildred stood up beside him, with one
hand on his shoulder as he searched.

He handed her the case without a word. She
opened it in silence and looked at the portrait within.
A small, delicately-featured face, with large dark
eyes  eyes almost too large for the face  a slender
throat, thin sloping shoulders  eyes that looked out
of the picture with a strange intensity  a curious
alertness in the countenance, as of a woman made
up of nerves and emotions, a nature wanting the
element of repose.

Mildred stared at the picture three or four
seconds, and then with a choking sound like a
strangled sob fell unconscious at her husband's feet,

ED OF VOL. I.

V-?

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

  AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

L161 O-1096

L I B R.ARY

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or 

v.e.

THE FATAL THREE

% S<>il

BY THE AUTHOR OF

LADY AUDLEY'S SECRET," "VIXEN,
"ISHMAEL," "Mohawks,"

IN'THEEE VOLUMES
YOL. II.

LONDON

SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, AND CO.

STATIONERS' HALL COURT

[411 rights reserved

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

good tljt wonb.
LACHESIS ; OR THE METER OF DESTINY.

LACHESIS; OR THE METER OF DESTINY.

VOL. II.

A WIFE AND NO WIFE.

Mr. Castellani's existence was one of those social
problems about which the idle world loves to speculate.
There are a good many people in London to
whom the idea of a fourth dimension is not half so
interesting as the notion of a man who lives by his
wits, and yet contrives to get himself dressed by a
good tailor, and to obtain a footing in some of the
best houses at the smart end of the town. This
problem Cesar Castellani had offered to the polite
world of London for the last three seasons.

Who is Mr. Castellani ? was a question still asked
by a good many people who invited the gentleman
to their houses, and made much of him. He had
not forced his way into society ; nobody had the
right to describe him as a pushing person. He had
slipped so insidiously into his place in the social

orbit that people had not yet left off wondering how
he came there, or who had been his sponsors. This
kind of speculation always stimulates the invention
of the clever people ; and these affected to know a
good deal more about Mr. Castellani than he knew
about himself.

*' He came with magnificent credentials, and an
account was opened for him at Courts's before he
arrived," said Magnus Dudley, the society poet,
flinging back his long hair with a lazy movement of
the large languid head. *' Of course, you know that
he is a natural son of Cavour's ?"

Indeed ! No, I never heard that. He is not
like Cavour."

Of course not, but he is the image of his
mother  one of the handsomest women in Italy  a
Duchess, and daughter of a Koman Prince, who could
trace his descent in an unbroken line from Germanicus.
Castellani has the blood of Caligula in his
veins."

*' He looks like it ; but I have heard on pretty
good authority that he is the son of a Milanese
music-master."

There are people who will tell you his father
wheeled a barrow and sold penny ices in "Whitechapel,"
retorted Magnus. *' People will say anything."


Thus and in much otherwise did society speculate
; and in the meantime Mr. Castellani's circle
was always widening. His book had been just audacious
enough and just clever enough to hit the
gold in the literary target. Nepenthe had been one
of the successes of the season before last : and Mr.
Castellani was henceforth to be known as the author
of Nepenthe. He had touched upon many things
below the stars, and some things beyond them. He
had written of other worlds with the confidence of a
man who had been there. He had written of women
with the air of a Cafe de Paris Solomon ; and he had
written of men as if he had never met one.

A man who could write a successful book, and
could sing and play divinely, was a person to be cultivated
in feminine society. Very few men cared to
be intimate with Mr. Castellani, but among women
his influence was indisputable. He treated them
with a courtly deference which charmed them, and

he made them his slaves. No Oriental despot ever
ruled more completely than Cesar Castellani did in
half-a-dozen of those drawing-rooms which give the
tone to scores of other drawing-rooms between Mayfair
and Earl's Court. He contrived to be in request
from the dawn to the close of the London season. He
had made a favour of going to Coverdale ; and now,
although it suited his purpose to be there, he made
a favour of staying.

"If it were not for the delight of being here, I
should be in one of the remotest valleys in the Tyrol,"
he told Mrs. Hillersdon. " I have never stayed in
England so long after the end of the season. A wild
longing to break loose from the bonds of Philistinism
generally seizes me at this time of the year. I want
to go away, and away, and ever away from my fellowmen.
I should like to go and live in a tomb, like
the girl in Ouida's In Maremma. My thirst for
solitude is a disease."

This from a man who spent the greater part of
his existence dawdling in drawing-rooms and boudoirs
sounded paradoxical; but paradoxes are accepted
graciously from a man who has written the book of

the season. Louise Hillersdon treated Castellani
like a favourite son. At his bidding she brought out
the old guitar which had slumbered in its case for
nearly a decade, 'and sang the old Spanish songs,
and struck the strings with the old dashing sweep
of a delicate hand, and graceful curve of a rounded
arm.

"When you sing I could believe you as young as
Helen when Paris stole her," said Castellani, lolling
along the sofa beside the low chair in which she was
sitting; "I cease to envy the men who knew you
when you were a girl."

** My dear Castellani, I feel old enough to be
your grandmother ; unless you are really the person
I sometimes take you for  "

Who may that be ?"

The Wandering Jew."

"No matter what my creed or where I have wandered,
since I am so happy as to find a haven here.
Granted that I can remember Nero's beautiful Empress,
and Austin, and all that procession of fair
women who illumine the Dark Ages  and Mary of
Scotland, and Emma Hamilton, blonde and brunette,

pathetic and espiegle, every type, and every variety.
It is enough for me to find perfection here."

If you only knew how sick I am of that kind of
nonsense !" said Mrs. Hillersdon, smiling at him,
half in amusement, half in scorn.

0, I know that you have drunk the wine of
men's worship to satiety! Yet if you and I had
lived upon the same plane, I would have taught you
that among a hundred adorers one could love you
better than all the rest. But it is too late. Our
souls may meet and touch perhaps thousands of years
hence in a new incarnation."

"Do you talk this kind of nonsense to Mrs.
Greswold or her niece ?"

No ; with them I am all dulness and propriety.
Neither lady is sciatica. Miss Kansome is a frank,
good-natured girl  much too frank  with all the
faults of her species. I find the genus girl universally
detestable."

Miss Kansome has about fifteen hundred a year.
I suppose you know that ?"

Has she really ? If ever I marry I hope to do
better than that," answered Cesar with easy insolence.

" She would be a very nice match for a
country parson ; that Mr. Eollinson, for instance,
who is getting up the concert."

*' Then Miss Ransome is not your attraction at
Enderby ? It is Mrs. Greswold who draws you."

Why should I be drawn ?" he asked, with his
languid air. " I go there in sheer idleness. They
like me to make music for them ; they fool me and
praise me ; and it is pleasant to be fooled by two
pretty women."

Does Mrs. Greswold take any part in the fooling
? She looks like marble."

There is fire under that marble. Mrs. Griswold
is romantically in love with her husband : but
that is a complaint which is not incurable."

"He is not an agreeable man," said Louise,
remembering how long George Greswold and his
wife had kept aloof from her. "And he does not
look a happy man."

"He is not happy."

You know something about him  more than we
all know ?" asked Louise, with keen curiosity.

"Not much. I met him at Nice before he came

into his property. He was not a very fortunate person
at that time, and he doesn't care to be reminded
of it now."

Was he out-at-elbows, or in debt ?"
Neither. His troubles did not take that form.
But I am not a gossip. Let the past be past, as
Goethe says. We can't change it, and it is charity
to forget it. If we are not sure about what we touch
and hear and see  or fancy we hear and touch and
see  in the present, how much less can we be sure
of any reality or external existence in the past ! It
is all done away with  vanished. How can we know
that it ever was ? A grave here and there is the only
witness ; and even the grave and the name on the
headstone may be only a projection of our own consciousness.
We are such stuff as dreams are made
of."

That is a politely circuitous manner of refusing
to tell me anything about Mr. Greswold when his
name was Ransome. No matter. I shall find other
people who know the scandal, I have no doubt.
Your prevarication assures me that there was a
scandal."

This was ou the eve of the concert at Enderby,
at about the same hour when George Greswold
showed Mildred his first wife's portrait. Castellani
and his hostess were alone together in the lady's
morning-room, while Hillersdon and his other
guests were in the billiard-room on the opposite side
of a broad corridor. Mrs. Hillersdon had a way of
turning over her visitors to her husband when they
bored her. Gusts of loud talk and louder laughter
came across the corridor now and again as they
played pool. There were times when Louise was too
tired of life to endure the burden of commonplace
society. She liked to dream over a novel. She
liked to talk with a clever young man like Castellani.
His flatteries amused her, and brought back a faint
flavour of youth and a dim remembrance of the day
when all men praised her, when she had known herself
without a rival. Now other women were beautiful,
and she was only a tradition. She had toiled
hard to live down her past, to make the world forget
that she had ever been Louise Lorraine : yet there
were moments in which she felt angry to find that
old personality of hers so utterly forgotten, when she

was tempted to cry out, " What rubbish you talk
about your Mrs. Egmont, your Mrs. Linley Warden,
your professional beauties and fine lady actresses.
Have you never heard of me  Louise Lorraine ?"

The drawing-rooms at Enderby Manor had
been so transformed under Mr. Castellani's superintendence,
and with the help of his own dexterous
hands, that there was a unanimous expression of
surprise from the county families as they entered that
region of subdued light and aesthetic draperies between
three and half-past three o'clock on the afternoon
of the concert.

The Broadwood grand stood on a platform in
front of a large bay-window, draped as no other hand
could drape a piano, with embroidered Persian curtains
and many-hued Algerian stuffs, striped with
gold ; and against the sweeping folds of drapery rose
a group of tall golden lilies out of a shallow yellow
vase. A cluster of gloxinias were massed near the
end of the piano, and a few of the most artistic chairs
in the house were placed about for the performers.
The platform, instead of being as other platforms, ina

straight line across one side of the room, was
placed diagonally, so as to present the picturesque
effect of an angle in the background, an angle lighted
with clusters of wax-candles, against a forest of
palms.

All the windows had been darkened save those in
the further drawing-room, which opened into the
garden, and even these were shaded by Spanish
hoods, letting in coolness and the scent of flowers,
with but little daylight. Thus the only bright light
was on the platform.

The auditorium was arranged with a certain artistic
carelessness : the chairs in curved lines to accommodate
the diagonal line of the platform ; and this
fact, in conjunction with the prettiness of the stage,
put every one in good temper before the concert
began.

The concert was as other concerts : clever amateur
singing, excellent amateur playing, fine voices cultivated
to a certain point, and stopping just short of
perfect training.

Cesar Castellani's three little songs  words by
Heine  music, Schubert and Jensen  were the hit of

the afternoon. There were few eyes that were unclouded
by tears, even among those listeners to whom
the words were in an unknown language. The pathos
was in the voice of the singer.

The duet was performed with aplomb, and elicited
an encore, on which Pamela and Castellani sang the
old-fashioned "Flow on, thou shining river," which
pleased elderly people, moving them like a reminiscence
of long-vanished youth.

Pamela's heart beat furiously as she heard the
applause, and she curtsied herself off the platform ina
whirl of delight. She felt that it was in her to bea
great public singer  a second Patti  if  if she
could be taught and trained by Castellani. Her head
was full of vague ideas  a life devoted to music 
three years' hard study in Italy  a debut at La Scala 
a world-wide renown achieved in a single night. She
even wondered how to Italianise her name. Ransoming
? No, that would hardly do. Pamela 
Pameletta ? What awkward names they were 
christian and surname both !

And then, crimsoning at the mere thought, she
saw in large letters, " Madame Castellani."

How much easier to make a great name in the
operatic world with a husband to fight one's battles
and get the better of managers !

'with an income of one's own it ought to be
easy to make one's way," thought Pamela, as she
stood behind the long table in the dining-room, dispensing
tea and coffee, with the assistance of maids
and footmen.

Her head was so full of these bewildering visions
that she was a little less on the alert than she ought
to have been for shillings and half-crowns, whereby
a few elderly ladies got their tea and coffee for nothing,
not being asked for payment, and preferring
to consider the entertainment gratis.

Mildred's part of the concert was performed to
perfection  not a false note in an accompaniment, ora
fault in the tempo. Lady Millborough, a very
exacting personage, declared she had never been so
well supported in her cheval de canaille, the finale to
La Cenerentola, But many among the audience remarked
that they had never seen Mrs. Greswold look
so'Lll ; and both Robinson and Castellani were seriously
concerned about her.

You are as white as marble," said .the Italian.
"I know you are suffering."

' I assure you it is nothing. I have not been
feeling very well lately, and I had a sleepless night.
There is nothing that need give any one the slightest
concern. You may be sure I shall not breakdown.
I am very much interested in the painted
window," she added, with a faint smile.

It is not that I fear," said Castellani, in a lower
voice. "It is of you and your suffering I am
thinking."

George Greswold did not appear at the concert '
he was engaged elsewhere.

"I cannot think how Uncle George allowed
himself to have an appointment at Salisbury this
afternoon," said Pamela. " I know he doats on
music,"

Perhaps he doesn't doat upon it quite so well
as to like to see his house turned topsy-turvy," said
Lady Millborough, who would have allowed every
philanthropic scheme in the country to collapse for
want of cash rather than suffer her drawing-room to
be pulled about by amateur scene-shifters.

Mrs. Hillersdon and her party occupied a prominent
position near the platform ; but that lady was
too clever to make herself conspicuous. She talked
to the people who were disposed to friendliness  their
numbers had increased with the advancing years 
and she placidly ignored those who still held themselves
aloof from "that horrid woman." Xor did
she in any way appropriate Castellani as her special
protege when the people round her were praising him.
She took everything that happened with the repose
which stamps the caste of Yere de Yere, and may
often be found among women whom the Yere de
Teres despise.

All was over: the last of the carriages had rolled
away. Castellani had been carried off in Mrs. Hill
barouche, no one inviting him to stay at
the Manor House. Eollinson lingered to repeat his
effusive thanks for Mrs. Greswold's help.

It has been a glorious success," he exclaimed ;
glorious ! Who would have thought there was so
much amateur talent available within thirty miles ?
And Castellani was a grand acquisition. We shall

VOL. n.

clear at least seventy pounds for the window. I don't
know how I can ever thank you enough for giving
US the use of your lovely rooms, Mrs. Greswold, and
for letting us pull them about as we liked."

* That did not matter  much," Mildred said
faintly, as she stood by the drawing-room door in the
evening light, the curate lingering to reiterate the
assurance of his gratitude. * Everything can be
arranged again  easily."

She was thinking, with a dull aching at her heart,
that to her the pulling about and disarrangement of
those familiar rooms hardly mattered at all. They
were her rooms no longer. Enderby was never more
to be her home. It had been her happy home for
thirteen gracious years  years clouded with but one
natural sorrow, in the loss of her beloved father.
And now that father's ghost rose up before her, and
said, *' The sins of the fathers shall be visited upon
the children, and because of my sin you must go forth
from your happy home and forsake the husband of
your heart."

She gave the curate an icy hand, and turned from
him without another word.

Poor soul, she is dead-beat !" thought Robinson,
as he trudged home to his lodgings over a joiner and
builder's shop : airy, and comfortable rooms enough,
but odorous of sawdust, and a little too near the
noises of the workshop.

He could but think it odd that he had not been
asked to dine at the Manor, as he would have been
in the ordinary course of events. He had told the
builder's wife that he should most likely dine out,
whereupon that friendly soul had answered, ** Why,
of course they'll ask you, Mr. Rollinson. You know
they're always glad to see you."

And now he had to return to solitude and a fresh-killed
chop.

It was seven o'clock, and George Greswold had
not yet come home from Salisbury. Very few words
had passed between him and his wife since she fell
fainting at his feet last night. He had summoned
her maid, and between them they had brought her
back to consciousness, and half carried her to her
room. She would give no explanation of her 
when the maid had left the room, and she

was lying on her bed, white and cain, with her
husband sitting by her side. She told him that
she was tired, and that a sudden giddiness had
come upon her. That was all he could get from
her.

If you will ask me no questions, and leave me
quite alone, I will try to sleep, so that I may be fit
for my work in the concert tomorrow," she pleaded.
I would not disappoint them for worlds."

"I don't think you need be over-anxious about
them," said her husband bitterly. " There is more
at stake than a painted window : there is your peace
and mine. Answer me only one question," he said,
with intensity of purpose : *' had your fainting-fit
anything to do with the portrait of my first wife ?"

I will tell you everything  after the concert tomorrow,"
she answered; *' for God's sake leave me
to myself till then."

"Let it be as you will," he answered, rising suddenly,
wounded by her reticence.

He left the room without another word. She
sprang up from her bed directly he was gone, ran to
the door and locked it, and then flung herself on her

knees upon the prie-dieu chair at the foot of a large
ivory crucifix which hung in a deep recess beside the
old-fashioned fireplace.

Here she knelt, in tears and prayer, deep into
the night. Then for an hour or more she walked up
and down the room, absorbed in thought, by the dim
light of the night-lamp.

When the morning light came she went to a
bookcase in a little closet of a room opening out of
the spacious old bedroom  a case containing only
devotional books, and of these she took out volume
after volume  Taylor's Rule of Conscience y Hooker's
Religious Polity, Butler, Paley  one after another,
turning over the leaves, looking through the indexes
searching for something which she seemed unable
to find anywhere.

"What need have I to see what others have
thought ?" she said to herself at last, after repeated
failure ; " Clement Cancellor knows the right. I could
have no better guide than his opinion, and he has
spoken. What other law do I need ? His law is the
law of God."

Not once did her eyes close in sleep all through

that night, or in the morning hours before breakfast.
She made an excuse for breakfasting in her
dressing-room, a large, airy apartment, half boudoir.
She was told that Mr. Greswold had gone out early
to see some horses at Salisbury, and would not be
back till dinner-time. He was to be met at the station
at half-past seven.

She had her morning to herself. Pamela was
rehearsing her part in the duet, and in " Flow on,
thou shining river," which was to be sung in the
event of an encore. That occupation, and the
arrangement of her toilet, occupied the young lady
till luncheon  allowing for half-hourly rushes about
the lawn and shrubberies with Box, whose health
required activity, and whose social instincts yearned
for companionship.

He can't get on with only Kassandra; she hasn't
intellect enough for him," said Pamela.

It was only ten minutes before the arrival of the
performers that Mrs. Greswold went down-stairs, pale
as ashes, but ready for the ordeal. She had put on
a white gown with a little scarlet ribbon about it, lest
black should make her pallor too conspicuous.

And now it was seven o'clock, and she was alone.
The curate had been right in pronouncing her dead-beat
; but she had ' some work before her yet. She
had been writing letters in the morning. Two of
these she now placed on the mantelpiece in her bedroom
: one addressed to her husband, the other to
Pamela.

She had a bag packed  not one of those formidable
dressing-bags which weigh fifteen to twenty
pounds  but a light Russia-leather bag, just large
enough to contain the essentials of the toilet. She
put on a neat little black bonnet and a travelling-cloak,
and took her bag and umbrella, and went
down to the hall. She had given orders that the
carriage should call for her before going to the station,
and she was at the door ready to step into it
when it came round.

She told the groom that she was to be put down
at Ivy Cottage, and was driven off unseen by the
household, who were all indulging in a prolonged
tea-drinking after the excitement of the concert.

Ivy Cottage was within five minutes' walk of
Romsey Station : a little red cottage, newly built,

with three or four ivy plants languishing upon a
slack-baked brick wall, and just enough garden for
the proverbial cat to disport himself in at his ease
the swinging of cats being no longer a popular
English sport. There was nothing strange in Mrs.
Greswold alighting at Ivy Cottage  unless it were
the hour of her visit  for the small brick box was
occupied by two maiden ladies of small means : one
a confirmed invalid ; the other her patient nurse ;
whom the lady of Enderby Manor often visited, and
in whom she was known to be warmly interested.

The coachman concluded that his mistress was
going to spend a quarter of an hour with the two
old ladies, while he went on and waited for his
master at the station, and that he was to call for
her on his return. He did not even ask for her
orders upon this point, taking them for granted.

He was ten minutes too soon at the station, as
every well-conducted coachman ought to be.

I'm to call for my mistress, sir," he said, as
Mr. Greswold stepped into the brougham.

Where ?"

"At Ivy Cottage, sir: Miss Fisher's."

Very good."

The brougham pulled up at Ivy Cottage; and
the grooEQ got down and knocked a resounding peal
upon the Queen Anne knocker, it being hardly possible
nowadays to find a knocker that is not after
the style of Queen Anne, or a newly-built twenty-five
pound a year cottage in any part of rural England
that does not offer a faint reminiscence of
Bedford Park.

The groom made his inquiry of the startled little
maid-of-all-work, fourteen years old last birthday,
and already aspiring to better herself as a vegetable-maid
in a nobleman's family.

Mrs. Greswold had not been at Ivy Cottage that
evening.

George Greswold was out of the brougham by
this time, hearing the girl's answer.

Stop where you are," he said to the coachman,
and ran back to the station, an evil augury in his
mind.

He went to the up-platform, the platform at
which he had alighted ten minutes before.

*' Did you see Mrs. Greswold here just now?" he

asked the station-master, with as natural an air ashe
could command.

"Yes, sir. She got into the up-train, sir ; the
train by which you came. She came out of the
waiting-room, sir, the minute after you left the platform.
You must just have missed her."

"Yes, I have just missed her."

He walked up and down the length of the platform
two or three times in the thickening dusk.
Yes, he had missed her. She had left him. Such
a departure could mean only severance  some deep
wound  which it might take long to heal. It
would all come right by and by. There could be
no such thing as parting between man and wife
who loved each other as they loved  who were
incapable of falsehood or wrong.

What was this jealous fancy that had taken
possession of her ? This unappeasable jealousy of
the dead past  a passion so strong that it had
prompted her to rush away from him in this clandestine
fashion, to torture him by all the evidences
of an inconsolable grief. His heart was sick to
death as he went back to the carriage, helpless todo

anything except go to his deserted home, and see
what explanation awaited him there.

It was half-past eight when the carriage drove
up to the Manor House. Pamela ran out into the
hall to receive him.

*how late you are, uncle!" she cried, "and I
can't find aunt. Everything is at sixes and sevens.
The concert was a stupendous success  and  only
think !  I was encored."

"Indeed, dear!"

Yes, my duet with him : and then we sang the
other. They would have liked a third, only we pretended
not to understand. It would have made all
the others so fearfully savage if we had taken it."

This speech was not a model of lucidity, but it
might have been much clearer and yet unintelligible
to George Greswold.

Do you mind dining alone to-night, my dear
Pamela ?" he said, trying to speak cheerily. " Your
aunt is out  and I  I have some letters to write 
and I lunched heavily at Salisbury."

His heavy luncheon had consisted of a biscuit
and a glass of beer at the station. His important

business had been a long ramble on Salisbury Plain,
alone with his troubled thoughts.

"Did your mistress leave any message for me?"
he asked the butler.

No, sir. Nobody saw my mistress go out.
When Louisa went up to dress her for dinner she
was gone, sir  but Louisa said there was a letter
for you on the bedroom mantelpiece. Shall I send
for it, sir?"

No, no  I will go myself. Serve dinner at
once. Miss Kansome will dine alone."

George Greswold went to the bedroom  that fine
old room, the real Queen Anne room, with thick
walls and deep-set windows, and old window-seats
and capacious recesses on each side of the high oak
chimney piece, and richly - moulded wainscot, and
massive panelled doors, a sober eighteenth-century
atmosphere in which it is a privilege to exist  a
spacious old room, with old Dutch furniture, of the
pre-Chippendale era, and early English china, Worcester
simulating Oriental, Chelsea striving after
Dresden : a glorious old room, solemn and mysterious
as a church in the dim light of a pair of wax-candles

which Louisa the maid had lighted on the
mantelpiece.

There, between the candles, appeared two letters :
George Greswold, Esq," " Miss Ransome."

The husband's letter was a thick one, and the
style of the penmanship showed how the pen had
hurried along, driven by the electric forces of
excitement and despair :

My Beloved,  You asked me last night if the
photograph which you showed me had anything todo
with my fainting-fit. It had everything to do
with it. That photograph is a portrait of my unhappy
sister, my cruelly-used, unacknowledged
sister ; and I, who have been your wife fourteen
years, know now that our marriage was against the
law of God and man  that I have never been legally
your wife  that our union from the first has been
an unholy union, and for that unlawful marriage the
hand of God has been laid upon us  heavily 
heavily  in chastisement, and the darling of our
hearts has been taken from us.

' Whom He loveth He chastened.' He has

chastened us, George  perhaps to draw us nearer
to Him. We were too happy, it may be, in this
temporal life  too much absorbed by our own
happiness, living in a charmed circle of love and
gladness, till that awful chastisement came.

There is but one course possible to me, my
dear and honoured husband, and that course lies
in life-long separation. I am running away from
my dear home like a criminal, because I am not
strong enough to stand face to face with you and tell
you what must be. We must do our best to live
out our lives asunder, George ; we must never meet
again as wedded lovers, such as we have been for
fourteen years. God knows, my affection for you
has grown and strengthened with every year of
union, and yet it seems to me on looking back that
my heart went out to you in all the fulness of an
infinite love when first we stood, hand clasped in
hand, beside the river. If you are angry with me,
George  if you harden your heart against me because
I do that which I know to be my duty, at least
believe that I never loved you better than in this
bitter hour of parting. I spent last night in pray

and thought. If there were any way of escape 
any possibility of living my own old happy life with
a clear conscience  I think God would have shown it
to me in answer to my prayers ; but there was no
ray of light, no gleam of hope. Conscience answers
sternly and plainly. By the law of God I have never
been your wife, and His law commands me to
break an unhallowed tie, although my heart may
break with it.

Do you remember your argument with Mr.
Cancellor ? I never saw you so vehement in any
such dispute, and you took the side which I can
but think the side of the Evil One. That conversation
now seems to me like a strange foreshadowing
of sorrow  a lesson meant for my guidance. Little
did I then think that this question could ever have
any bearing on my own life ; but I recall every
word now, and I remember how earnestly my old
master spoke  how ruthlessly he maintained the
right. Can I doubt his wisdom, from whose lips
I first learnt the Christian law, and in whom I first
saw the true Christian life ?

*' I have written to Pamela, begging her to stay

with you, to take my place in the household, and to
he to you as an adopted daughter. May God be
merciful to us both in this heavy trial, George ! Be
sure He will deal with us mercifully if we do our
duty according to the light that is given to us.

*'I shall stay to-night in Queen Anne's Gate
with Mrs. Tomkison. Please send Louisa to me
tomorrow with luggage for a considerable absence
from home. She will know what to bring. You
can tell her that I am going abroad for my health.
My intention is to go to some small watering-place
in Germany, where I can vegetate, away from all
beaten tracks, and from the people who know us.
You may rely upon me to bear my own burden, and
to seek sympathy and consolation from no earthly
comforter.

Do not follow me, George  should your heart
urge you to do so. Respect my solemn resolution,
the result of many prayers.  Your ever loving

Milder."

THE SINS OF THE FATHERS.

George Greswold read his wife's letter a secours
time with increasing perplexity and trouble of mind.
Her sister ! "What could this mean '? She had
never told him of the existence of a sister. She had
been described by her father, by every one, as an only
child. She had inherited the whole of her father's
fortune.

Her cruelly-used, unacknowledged sister."

Those words indicated a social mystery, and ashe
read and re-read those opening lines of his wife's
letter he remembered her reticence about that girl-companion
from whom she had been parted so early.
He remembered her blushing embarrassment when
he questioned her about the girl she called Fay.

The girl had been sent to a finishing-school at
Brussels, and Mildred had seen her no more.

His first wife had finished her education at

VOL. II. D

Brussels. She had talked to him often of the fashionable
boarding-school in the quaint old street near
the Cathedral; and the slights she had endured
there from other girls because of her isolation.
There was no stint in the expense of her education.
She had as many masters as she cared to have. She
was as well dressed as the richest of her companions.
But she was nobody, and belonged to nobody, could
give no account of herself that would satisfy those
merciless inquisitors.

His wife, Vivien Faux, the young English lady
whom he had met at Florence. She was travelling
in the care of an English artist and his wife, who
spent their lives on the Continent. She submitted to
no authority, had ample means, and was thoroughly
independent. She did not get on very well with
either the artist or his wife. She had a knack of
saying disagreeable things, and a tongue of exceeding
bitterness. A difficult subject the painter called
her, and imparted to his particular friends in confidence
that his wife and Miss Faux were always
quarrelling. Vivien Faux, that was the name borne
by the girl whom he met nineteen years ago at

an evening-party in Florence ; that was the name
of the girl he had married, after briefest acquaintance,
knowing no more about her than that she had a
fortune of thirty thousand pounds when she came of
age, and that the trustee and custodian of that fortune
was a lawyer in Lincoln's Inn, who affected no
authority over her, and put no difficulties in the way
of her marrying.

He remembered now when he first saw Mildred
Fausset something in her fresh young beauty, some
indefinable peculiarity of expression or contour, had
evolved the image of his dead wife, that image which
never recurred to him without keenest pain. He
remembered how strange that vague, indescribable
resemblance had seemed to him, and how he had
asked himself if it had any real existence, or were
only the outcome of his own troubled mind, reverting
involuntarily to an agonising memory.

Her face may come back to me in the faces of
other women, as it comes back to me in my miserable
dreams," he told himself.

But as the years went by he became convinced that
the likeness was not imaginary. There were points

of resemblance  the delicate tracing of the eyebrows,
the form of the brow, the way the hair grew above
the temples, were curiously alike. He came to accept
the likeness as one of those chance resemblances
which are common enough in life. It suggested to
him nothing more than that.

He went to the library with the letter still in his
hand. His lamp was ready lighted, and, the September
evening being chilly, there was a wood fire
on the low hearth, which gave an air of cheerfulness
to the sombre room.

He rang and told the footman to send Mrs. Bell
to him.

Bell appeared, erect and severe of aspect as she
had been four-and-twenty years before ; neatly dressed
in black silk, with braided gray hair, and a white
lace cap.

Sit down, Mrs. Bell, I have a good many questions
to ask you," said Greswold, motioning her to
a chair on the further side of ho desk.

He was sitting with his eyes fixed, looking at the
spot where Mildred had fallen senseless at his feet.
He Fat for some moments in a reverie, and then

turned suddenly, unlocked his desk, and took out
the photograph which he had shown Mildred last
night.

Did you ever see that face before. Bell ?" he
asked, handing her the open case.

Good gracious, sir, yes, indeed, I should think
I did ! but Miss Fay was younger than that when
she came to Parchment Street."

*' Did you see much of her in Parchment
Street?"

"Yes, sir, a good deal, and at The Hook, too ; a
good deal more than I wanted to. I didn't hold
with her being brought into our house, sir."

"Why not?"

I didn't think it was fair to my mistress."

But how was it unfair ?"

Well, sir, I don't wish to say anything against
the dead, and Mr. Fausset was a liberal master tome,
and I make no doubt that he died a penitent
man. He was a regular church-goer, and an upright
man in all his ways while I lived with him ;
but right is right ; and I shall always maintain that
it was a cruel thing to a young wife like Mrs.

THE FATAL THREE.

Fausset, who doted on the ground he walked upon,
to bring his natural daughter into the house."

Mrs. Bell, do you know that this is a serious
accusation you are bringing against a dead man ?"
said George Greswold solemnly. " Now, what
grounds have you for saying that this girl "  with
his hand upon the photograph  '' was Mr. Fausset's
daughter ?"

What grounds, sir ? I don't want any grounds.
I'm not a lawyer to put things in that way ; but I
know what I know. First and foremost, she was the
image of him ; and next, why did he bring her home
and want her to be made one of the family, and
treated as a sister by Miss Mildred ?"

*' She may have been the daughter of a
friend."

People don't do that kind of thing  don't run
the risk of making a wife miserable to oblige a friend,"
retorted Bell scornfully. '* Besides, I say again, if
she wasn't his own flesh and blood, why was she so
like him ?"

She may have been the daughter of a near relation."


''He had but one near relation in the world : his
only sister, a young lady who was so difficult to
please that she refused no end of good offers, and of
such a pious turn that she has devoted her life to
doing good for the last five-and-twenty years, to my
certain knowledge. I hope, sir, you would not
insinuate that she had a natural daughter?"

She may have made a secret marriage, perhaps,
known only to her brother."

She couldn't have done any such thing without
my knowledge, sir. She was a girl at school at the
time of Miss Fay's birth. Don't mix Miss Fausset
up in it, pray, sir."

Was it you only who suspected Mr. Fausset to
be Miss Fay's father"'

"Only me, sir? Why, it was everybody: and,
what was worst of all, my poor mistress knew it,
and fretted over it to her dying day."

"But you never heard Mr. Fausset acknowledge
the parentage ?"

No, sir, not to me ; but I have no doubt he
acknowledged it to his poor dear lady. He was an
affectionate husband, and he must have been very

much wrapped up in that girl, or he wouldn't have
made his wife unhappy about her."

With but the slightest encouragement from Mr.
Greswold, Bell expatiated on the subject of Fay's
residence in the two houses, and the misery she had
wrought there. She unconsciously exaggerated the
general conviction about the master's relationship
to his jprotcgee, nor did she hint that it was she who
first mooted the notion in the Parchment Street
household. She left George Greswold with the
belief that this relationship had been known for a
f Lct to a great many people  that the tie between
protector and protected was an open secret.

She dwelt much upon the child Mildred's love for
the elder girl, which she seemed to think in itself an
evidence of their sisterhood. She gave a graphic
account of Mildred's illness, and described how Fay
had watched beside her bed night after night.

*' I saw her sitting there in her nightgown many
a time when I went in the middle of the night to
see if Mildred was asleep. I never liked Miss Fay,
but justice is justice, and I must say, looking back
upon all things," said Mrs. Bell, with a virtuous

air, " that there was no deception about her love for
Miss Mildred. I may have thought it put on then ;
but looking back upon it now, I know that it was real."

I can quite understand that my wife must have
been very fond of such a companion  sister or no
sister  but she was so young that no doubt she soon
forgot her friend. Memory is not tenacious at seven
years old," said Greswold, with an air of quiet
thoughtfulness, cutting the leaves of a new book
which had lain on his desk, the paper-knife marking
the page where he had thrown it down yesterday
afternoon.

Indeed, she didn't forget, sir. You must not
judge Miss Mildred by other girls of seven. She
was  she was like Miss Lola, sir"  Bell's elderly
voice faltered here. " She was all love and thoughtfulness.
She doted on Miss Fay, and I never saw
such grief as she felt when she came back from the
sea-side and found her gone. It was done for the
best, and it was the only thing my mistress could do
with any regard for her own self-respect ; but even I
felt very sorry Miss Fay had been sent away, when I
saw what a blow it was to Miss Mildred. She didn't

get over it for years ; and though she was a good
and dutiful daughter, I know that she and her mother
had words about Miss Fay more than once."

She was very fond of her, was she?" murmured
George Greswold, in an absent way, steadily cutting
the leaves of his book. *' Very fond of her. And
you have no doubt in your own mind, Mrs. Bell, that
the two were sisters ?"

"Not the least doubt, sir. I never had," answered
Bell resolutely.

She waited for him to speak again, but he sat
silent, cutting his way slowly through the big volume,
without making one jagged edge, so steady was the
movement of the hand that grasped the paper-knife.
His eyes were bent upon the book ; his face was in
shadow.

Is that all, sir ?" Bell asked at last, when she
had grown tired of his silence.

Yes, Mrs. Bell, that will do. Good-night."

When the door closed upon her, he flung the
book away from him, sprang to his feet, and began
to pace the room, up and down its length of forty
feet, from hearth to door.

Sisters!  and so fond of each other!" he muttered.
*' My God, this is fatality I In this, as in the death
of my child, I am helpless. The wanton neglect of
my servants cost me the idol of my heart. It was
not my fault  not mine  hut I lost her. And now
I am again the victim of fatality  hind, impotent 
groping in the dark web  caught in the inexorable
net."

He went back to his desk, and re-read Mildred's
letter in the light of the lamp.

She leaves me because our marriage is unholy
in her eyes," he said to himself. *'Tiat will she
think when she knows all  as she must know, I
suppose, sooner or later ? Sooner or later all things
are known, says one of the wise ones of the earth.
Sooner or later ! She is on the track now. Sooner
or later she must know  everything."

He flung himself into a low chair in front of the
hearth, and sat with his elbows on his knees staring
at the fire.

"If it were that question of legality only," he
said to himself, *'if it were a question of Church,
law, bigotry, prejudice, I should not fear the issue.

My love for her, and hers for me, ought to be
stronger than any such prejudice. It would need
but the first sharp pain of severance to bring
her back to me, my fond and faithful wife, willing
to submit her judgment to mine, willing to
believe, as I believe, that such marriages are just
and holy, such bonds pure and true, all over the
world, even though one country may allow and
another disallow, one colony tie the knot and another
loosen it. If it were that alone which parts us, I
should not fear. But it is the past, the spectral past,
which rises up to thrust us asunder. Her sister !
And they loved each other as David and Jonathan
loved, with the love whose inheritance is a life-long
reOTet."

THE VERDICT OF HEP. CHURCH.

It was nearly eleven o'clock when Mrs. Greswold
arrived at Waterloo. There had been half-an-hour's
delay at Bishopstoke, where she changed trains,
and the journey had seemed interminable to the
over-strained brain of that solitary traveller. Never
before had she so journeyed, never during the
fourteen years of her married life had she sat
behind an engine that was carrying her away from
her husband. Xo words could speak that agony of
severance, or express the gloom of the future 
stretching before her in one dead-level of desolation
which was to be spent away from him.

If I were a Roman Catholic I would go into a
convent tomorrow ; I would lock myself for ever
from the outer world," she thought, feeling that
the world could be nothing to her without her
husband.

And then she began to ponder seriously upon
those sisterhoods in which the Anglican Church is
now almost as rich as the Koman. She thought of
those woraen with whom she had been occasionally
brought in contact, whom she had been able to help
sometimes with her purse and with her sympathy,
and she knew that when the hour came for her to
renounce the world there would be many homes
open to receive her, many a good work worthy of
her labour.

*'I am not like those good women," she thought;
the prospect seems to me so dreary. I have loved
the world too well. I love it still, even after all
that I have lost."

She had telegraphed to her friend Mrs.
Tomkison, and that lady was at the terminus, with
her neat little brougham, and with an enthusiastic
welcome.

*rit is so sweet of you to come to me! " she
exclaimed; "but I hope it is not any worrying
business that has brought you up to town so
suddenly  papers to sign, or anything of that
kind."

Mrs. Tomkison was literary and aesthetic, and
had the vaguest notions upon all business details.
She was an ardent champion of woman's rights,
sent Mr. Tomkison off to the City every morning to
earn money for her milliners, decorators, fads, and
proteges of every kind, and reminded him every
evening of his intellectual inferiority. She had
an idea that women of property were inevitably
plundered by their husbands, and that it was one
of the conditions of their existence to be wheedled
into signing away their fortunes for the benefit of
spendthrift partners, she herself being in the impregnable
position of never having brought her
husband a sixpence.

No, it is hardly a business matter, Cecilia. I
am only in town en passant. I am going to my
aunt at Brighton tomorrow. I knew you would
give me a night's shelter ; and it is much nicer to be
with you than to go to an hotel."

The fact was, that of two evils Mildred had chosen
the lesser. She had shrunk from the idea of meeting
her lively friend, and being subjected to the
ordeal of that lady's curiosity ; but it had seemed

still more terrible to her to enter a strange hotel at
night, and alone. She who had never travelled
alone, who had been so closely guarded by a
husband's thoughtful love, felt herself helpless as a
child in that beginning of widowhood.

I should have thought it simply detestable of
you if you had gone to an hotel," protested Cecilia,
who affected strong language. " We can have a
delicious hour of confidential talk. I sent Adam to
bed before I came out. He is an excellent devoted
creature  has just made what he calls a pot of
money on Mexican Street Railways ; but he is a
dreadful bore when one wants to be alone with one's
dearest friend. I have ordered a cosy little supper
 a few natives, only just in, a brace of grouse, and
a bottle of the only champagne which smart people
will hear of nowadays."

I am so sorry you troubled about supper,"
said Mildred, not at all curious about the latest
fashion in champagne. "I could not take anything,
unless it were a cup of tea."

"But you must have dined early, or hurriedly ,at
any rate. I hate that kind of dinner  everything

huddled over  and the carriage announced before
the piece de resistance. And so you're going to
your aunt. Is she ill ? Has she sent for you at a
moment's notice ? You will come into all her
money, no doubt ; and I am told she is immensely
rich."

'' I have never thought about her money."
I suppose not, you lucky creature. It will be
sending coals to Newcastle in your case. Your
father left you so rich. I am told Miss Fausset
gives no end of money to her church people. She
has put in two painted windows at St. Edmund's :
a magnificent rose window over the porch, and a
window in the south transept by Burne Jones  a
delicious design  St. Cecilia sitting at an organ,
with a cloud of cherubs. By the bye, talking of St.
Cecilia, how did you like my friend Castellani ? He
wrote me a dear little note of gratitude for my
introduction, so I am sure you were very good
to him."

"I could not dishonour any introduction of
yours ; besides, Mr. Castellani's grandfather and my

VOL. II. E

father had been friends. That was a link. He was
very obliging in helping us with an amateur concert."

How do you like him ? But here we are at
home. You shall tell me more while we are at
supper."

Mildred had to sit down to the oysters and
grouse, whether she would or not. The diningroom
was charming in the day-time, with its view
of the Park. At night it might have been a room
excavated from Vesuvian lava, so strictly classic
were its terra-cotta draperies, its butter-boat lamps,
and curule chairs.

"How sad to see you unable to eat anything!"
protested Mrs. Tomkison, snapping up the natives
with gusto ; for it may be observed that the people
who wait up for travellers, or for friends coming
home from the play, are always hungrier than those
who so return. " You shall have your tea directly."

Mildred had eaten nothing since her apology fora
breakfast. She was faint with fasting, but had no
appetite, and the odour of grouse, fried bread-crumbs,
and gravy sickened her. She withdrew to a chair
by the fire, and had a dainty little tea-table placed

at her side, while Mrs. Tomkison demolished one of
the birds, talking all the time.

"Isn't he a gifted creature?" she asked, helping
herself to the second half of the bird.

Mildred almost thought she was speaking of
the grouse.

*'I mean Castellani," said Cecilia, in answer to
her interrogative look. " Isn't he a heap of talent ?
You heard him play, of course, and you heard his
divine voice ? When I think of his genius for music,
and remember that he wrote that book, I am actually
wonder struck."

The book is clever, no doubt," answered Mildred
thoughtfully, " almost too clever to be quite sincere.
And as for genius  well, I suppose his musical
talent does almost reach genius ; and yet what more
can one say of Mozart, Beethoven, or Chopin ? I
think genius is too large a word for any one less
than they."

But I say he is a genius," cried Mrs. Tomlinson,
elated by grouse and dry sherry (the champagne
had been put aside when Mildred refused it). " Does
he not carry one out of oneself by his playing ? Does

,ffis'<  ''

not his singing open the floodgates of our hard,
battered old hearts ? No one ever interested me so
much."

*' Have you known him long ?"

For the last three seasons. He is with me three
or four times a week when he is in town. He is
like a son of the house."

'' And does Mr. Tomkison like him ?"

'' 0, you know Adam," said Cecilia, with an expressive
shrug. " You know Adam's way. He
doesn't mind. ' You always must have somebody
hanging about you,' he said, ' so you may as well
have that French fool as any one else.' Adam calls
all foreigners Frenchmen, if they are not obtrusively
German. Castellani has been devoted to me ; and
I daresay I may have got myself talked about on
his account," pursued Cecilia, with the pious resignation
of a blameless matron of five-and-forty, who
rather likes to be suspected of an intrigue ; " but I
can't help that. He is one of the few young men
I have ever met who understands me. And then
we are such near neighbours, and it is easy for him
to run in at any hour.  You ought to give him a

latchkey,' says Adam ; ' it would save the servants a
lot of trouble.' "

"Yes, I remember; ho lives in Queen Anne's
Mansions," Mildred answered listlessly.

He has a suite of rooms near the top, looking
over half London, and exquisitely furnished. He
gives afternoon tea to a few chosen friends who
don't mind the lift ; and we have had a Materialisation
in his rooms, but it wasn't a particularly good
one," added Mrs. Tomkison, as if she were talking
of something to eat.

The maid Louisa arrived at Queen Anne's Gate
a little before luncheon on the following day. She
brought a considerable portion of Mrs. Greswold's
belongings in two large basket-trunks, a portmanteau,
and a dressing-bag. These were at once sent
on to Victoria in the cab that had brought the young
person and the luggage from Waterloo, while the
young person herself was accommodated with dinner,
table-beer, and gossip in the housekeeper's room.
She also brought a letter for her mistress, a letter
written by George Greswold late on the night before.

Mildred could hardly" tear open the envelope for
the trembling of her hands. How would he write
to her ? Would he plead against her decision ?
would he try to make her waver ? would he set love
against law, in such irresistible words as love alone
can use? She knew her own weakness and his
strength, and she opened his letter full of fear for
her own resolution : but there was no passionate
pleading.

The letter was measured almost to coldness :

*' I need not say that your departure, together
with your explanation of that departure, has come
upon me as a crushing blow. Your reasons in your
own mind are doubtless unanswerable. I cannot
even endeavour to gainsay them. I could only seem
to you as a special pleader, making the worse appear
the better reason, for my own selfish ends. You
know my opinion upon this hard-fought question of
marriage with a deceased wife's sister; and sou
know how widely it differs from Mr. Cancellor's
view and yours  which, to my mind, is the view of
the bigot, and not the Christian. There is no word

in Christ's teaching to forbid such marriages. Your
friend and master, Clement Cancellor, is of the school
which sets the law-making of mediaeval Church above
the wisdom of Christ. Am I to lose my wife because
Mr. Cancellor is a better Christian than his Master ?

But granted that you are fixed in this way of
thinking, that you deem it your duty to break your
husband's heart, and make his home desolate, rather
than tolerate the idea of union with one who was
once married to your half-sister, let me ask you at
least to consider whether you have sufficient ground
for believing that my first wife was verily your father's
daughter. In the first place, your only evidence of
the identity between my wife and the girl you call
Fay consists of a photograph which bears a striking
likeness to the girl you knew, a likeness which I am
bound to say Bell saw as instantly as you yourself had
seen it. Remember, that the strongest resemblances
have been found between those who were of no kin
to each other; and that more than one judicial
murder has been committed on the strength of
just such a likeness.

*' The main point at issue, however, is not so

much the question of identity as the question whether
the girl Fay was actually your father's daughter ; and
from my interrogation of Bell, it appears to me that
the evidence against your father in this matter is
one of impressions only, and, even as circumstantial
evidence, too feeble to establish any case against
the accused. Is it impossible for a man to be
interested in an orphan girl, and to be anxious to
establish her in his own home, as a companion for
his only child, unless that so-called orphan were his
own daughter, the offspring of a hidden intrigue ?
There may be stronger evidence as to Fay's parentage
than the suspicions of servants or your mother's
jealousy ; but as yet I have arrived at none. You
possibly may know much more than Bell knows,
more than your letter implies. If it is not so, if
you are acting on casual suspicions only, I can but
say that you are prompt to strike a man whose heart
has been sorely tried of late, and who had a special
claim upon your tenderness by reason of that recent
loss.

'*I can write no more, Mildred. My heart is
too heavy for many words. I do not reproach you.

I only ask you to consider what you are doing
before you make our parting irrevocable. You have
entreated me not to follow you, and I will obey you,
so far as to give you time for reflection before I
force myself upon your presence ; but I must see
you before you leave England. I ask no answer to
this letter until we meet.  Your unhappy husband

George Greswold."

The letter chilled her by its calm logic  its
absence of passion. There seemed very little of the
lover left in a husband who could so write. His
contempt for a law which to her was sacred shocked
her almost as if it had been an open declaration of
infidelity. His sneer at Clement Cancellor wounded
her to the quick.

She answered her husband's letter immediately :

Alas ! my beloved," she wrote, '' my reason for
believing Fay to have been my sister is unanswerable.
My mother on her death-bed told me of the
relationship ; told me the sad secret with bitter
tears. Her knowledge of that story had cast a

shadow on the latter years of her married life. I
had seen her unhappy, without knowing the cause.
On her death-bed she confided in me. I was almost
a woman then, and old enough to understand what
she told me. Women are so jealous where they
love, George. I suffered many a sharp pang after
my discovery of your previous marriage ; jealous of
that unknown rival who had gone before me, little
dreaming that fatal marriage was to cancel my own.

My mother's evidence is indisputable. She
must have have known. As I grew older I saw
that there was that in my father's manner when
Fay was mentioned which indicated some painful
secret. The time came when I was careful to avoid
the slightest allusion to my lost sister ; but in my
own mind and in my own heart I cherished her
image as the image of a sister.

"I am grieved that you should despise Mr. Cancellor
and his opinions. My religious education was
derived entirely from him. My father and mother
were both careless, though neither was unbelieving.
He taught me to care for spiritual things. He
taught me to look to a better life than the best we

can lead here ; and in this dark hour I thank and
bless him for having so taught me. What should
I be now, adrift on a sea of trouble, without the
compass of faith ? I will steer by that, George,
even though it carry me away from him I shall
always devotedly love.  Ever, in severance as in
union, your own Mildred."

She had written to Mr. Canceller early that
morning, asking him to call upon her before three
o'clock. He was announced a few minutes after she
finished her letter, and she went to the drawing-room
to receive him.

His rusty black coat and slouched hat, crumpled
carelessly in his unloved hand, looked curiously out
of harmony with Mrs. Tomkison's drawing-room,
which was the passion of her life, the shrine to which
she carried gold and frankincense and myrrh,
in the shape of rose clu Barri and Queue clu Boh
Sevres, veritable old Sherraton tables and chairs, and
commodes and cabinets from the boudoir of Marie
Antoinette, a lady who must assuredly have sat at
more tables and written at more escritoires than any

other woman in the world. Give her Majesty only
five minutes for every table and ten for every bonheur
tumour attributed to her possession, and her married
life must have been a good deal longer than the
span which she was granted of joy and grief between
the passing of the ring and the fall of the
axe.

Unsightly as that dark figure showed amidst the
delicate tertiaries of Lyons brocade and the bright
colouring of satin-wood tables and Sevres porcelain,
Mr. Canceller was perfectly at his ease in Mrs. Tomkison's
drawing-room. He wasted very few of his
hours in such rooms, albeit there were many such
in which his presence was courted ; but seldom ashe
appeared amidst such surroundings he was never
disconcerted by them. He was not easily impressed
by externals. The filth and squalor of a London
slum troubled him no more than the artistic intricacies
of a West End drawing-room, in which the chile
of beauty left him no room to put down his hat.
It was humanity for which he cared  persons, not
things. His soul went straight to the souls he was
anxious to save. He was narrow, perhaps ; but in

that narrowness there was a concentrate power
that could work wonders.

One glance at Mildred's face showed him that
she was distressed, and that her trouble was no small
thing. He held her hand in his long lean fingers,
and looked at her earnestly as he said : *

You have something to tell me  some sorrow
?"

Yes," she answered, *' an incurable sorrow."

She burst into tears, the first she had shed since
she left her home, and sobbed passionately for some
moments, leaning against the Trianon spinet, raining
her tears upon the Vernis Martin in a way that
would have made Mrs. Tomkison's blood run cold.

How weak I am!" she said impatiently, as she
dried her eyes and choked back her sobs. *' I thought
I was accustomed to my sorrow by this time. God
knows it is no new thing ! It seems a century old
already."

Sit down, and tell me all about it," said
Clement Canceller quietly, drawing forward a chair
for her, and then seating himself by her side. " I
cannot help you till you have told me all your trouble ;

and you know I shall help you if I can. I can sympathise
with you, in any case'*

Yes, I am sure of that," she answered sadly;
and then, falteringly but clearly, she told him the
whole story, from its beginning in the days of her
childhood till the end yesterday. She held back
nothing, she spared no one. Freely, as to her father
confessor, she told all. " I have left him for ever,"
she concluded. " Have I done right ?"

"Yes, you have done right. Anything less
than that would have been less than right. If you
are sure of your facts as to the relationship  if Mr.
Greswold's first wife was your father's daughter 
there was no other course open to you. There was
no alternative."

And my marriage is invalid in law ?" questioned
Mildred.

I do not think so. Law does not always mean
justice. If this young lady was your father's natural
daughter she had no status in the eye of the law.
She was not your sister  she belonged to no one,
in the eye of the law. She had no right to bear
your father's name. So, if you accept the civil law

for your guide, you may still be George Greswold's
wife  you may ignore the tie between you and ibis
first wife. Legally it has no existence."

Mildred crimsoned, and then grew deadly pale.
In the eye of the law her marriage was valid. She
was not a dishonoured woman  a wife and no wife.*
She might still stand by her husband's side  go
down to the grave as his companion and sweetheart.
They who so short a time ago were wedded lovers
might be lovers again, all clouds dispersed, the
sunshine of domestic peace upon their pathway  if
she were content to be guided by the law.

Should you think me justified if I were to
accept my legal position, and shut my eyes to all the
rest?" she asked, knowing but too well what the
answer would be.

Should I so think ! Mildred, do you know
me so little that you need ask such a question ?
When have I ever taken the law for my guide?
Have I not defied that law when it stood between
me and my faith ? Am I not ready to defy it again
were the choice between conscience and law forced
upon me ? To my mind your half-sister's position

makes not one jot of difference. She was not the
less your sister because of her parent's sin, and your
marriage with the man who was her husband is not
the less an incestuous marriage."

The word struck Mildred like a whip  stung the
wounded heart like the sharp cut of a lash.

*not one word more," she cried, holding up her
hands as if to ward off a blow. " If my union with
my  very dear  husband was a sinful union, I was
an unconscious sinner. The bond is broken for ever.
I shall sin no more."

Her tears came again ; but this time they
gathered slowly on the heavy lids, and rolled slowly
down the pale cheeks, while she sat with her eyes
fixed, looking straight before her, in dumb despair.

Be sure all will be well with you if you cleave
to the right," said the priest, with grave tenderness,
feeling for her as acutely as an ascetic can feel for
the grief that springs from earthly passions and
temporal loves, sympathising as a mother sympathises
with a child that sobs over a broken toy. The
toy is a futile thing, but to the child priceless.

What are you going to do with your life ?" he

asked gently, after a long pause, in which he had
given her time to recover her self-possession.

** I hardly know. I shall go to the Tyrol next
month, I think, and choose some out-of-the-way
nook, where I can live quietly; and then for the
winter I may go to Italy or the south of France. A
year hence perhaps I may enter a sisterhood ; hut I
do not want to take such a step hurriedly."

"No, not hurriedly," said Mr. Cancellor, his
face lighting up suddenly as that pale, thin, irregu-
lar-featured face could lighten with the divine radiance
from within ; " not hurriedly, not too soon ;
but I feel assured that it would be a good thing for
you to do  the sovereign cure for a broken life.
You think now that happiness would be impossible
for you, anywhere, anyhow. Believe me, my dear
Mildred, you would find it in doing good to others.
A vulgar remedy, an old woman's recipe, perhaps,
but infallible. A life lived for the good of others is
always a happy life. You know the glory of the sky
at sunset  there is nothing like it, no such splendour,
no such beauty  and yet it is only a reflected
light. So it is with the human heart, Mildred.

VOL. II. F

The sun of individual love has sunk below life's
horizon,, but the reflected glory of the Christian's
love for sinners brightens that horizon with a far
lovelier light."

If I could feel like you ; if I were as unselfish
as you  " faltered Mildred.

You have seen Louise Hillersdon  a frivolous,
pleasure-loving woman, you think, perhaps; one
who was once an abject sinner, whom you are
tempted to despise. I have seen that woman kneeling
by the bed of death ; I have seen her ministering
with unflinching courage to the sufferers from
the most loathsome diseases humanity knows ; and
I firmly believe that those hours of unselfish love
have been the brightest spots in her chequered life.
Believe me, Mildred, self-sacrifice is the shortest
road to happiness. No, I would not urge you to
make your election hurriedly. Give yourself leisure
for thought and prayer, and then, if you decide on
devoting your life to good works, command my help,
my counsel  all that is mine to give."

"I know, I know that I have a sure friend in
you, and that under heaven I have no better friend,"

she answered quietly, glancing at the clock as she
spoke. " I am going to Brighton this afternoon, to
spend a few days with my aunt, and to  tell her
what has happened. She must know all about Fay.
If there is any room for doubt she will tell me. My
last hope is there."

NO LIGHT.

Miss Fausset  Gertrude Fausset  occupied a large
house in Lewes Crescent  with windows commanding
all that there is of hold coast-line and open sea
within sight of Brighton. Her windows looked
eastward, and her large substantial mansion turned
its back upon all the frivolities of the popular 
 upon its Cockney visitors of summer and
its November smartness, its aquarium and theatre,
its London stars and Pavilion concerts, its carriages
and horsemen  few of whom ever went so far east
as Lewes Crescent ; its brazen bands and brazen
faces  upon everything except its church bells,
which were borne up to Miss Fausset's windows by
every west wind, and which sounded with but little
intermission from no less than three tabernacles
within half a mile of the crescent.

Happily Miss Fausset loved the sound of church



bells, loved all things connected with her own particular
church with the ardour which a woman who
has few ties of kindred or friendship can afford to
give to clerical matters. Nothing except serious
indisposition would have prevented her attending
matins at St. Edmund's, the picturesque and semi-fashionable
Gothic temple in a narrow side street
within ten minutes' walk of her house ; nor was she
often absent from afternoon prayers, which were read
daily at five o'clock to a small and select congregation.
The somewhat stately figure of the elderly
spinster was familiar to most of the worshippers at
St. Edmund's. All old Brightonians knew the history
of that tall, slim maiden lady, richly clad after
a style of her own, which succeeded in reconciling
Puritanism with the fashion of the day ; very dignified
in her carriage and manners, with a touch of
hauteur, as of a miserable sinner who knew that she
belonged to the salt of the earth. Brightonians
knew that she was bliss Fausset, sole survivor of the
great house of Fausset & Company, silk merchants
and manufacturers, St. Paul's Churchyard and
Lyons ; that she had inherited a handsome fortune

from her father before she was twenty, that she had
refused a good many advantageous offers, had ranked
as a beauty, and had been much admired in her
time, that she had occupied the house in Lewes
Crescent for more than a quarter of a century, and
that she had taken a prominent part in philanthropic
associations and clerical matters during the greater
number of those years. No charity bazaar was considered
in the way of success until Miss Fausset
had promised to hold a stall ; no new light in the
ecclesiastical firmament of Brighton ranked asa
veritable star until Miss Fausset had taken notice
of him. She received everybody connected with
Church and charitable matters. Afternoon tea in
her drawing - room was a social distinction, and
strangers were taken to her as to a Royal personage.
Her occasional dinners  very rare, and never large
were talked of as perfection in the way of dining.

'* It is easy for her to do things well," sighed an
over weighted matron, " with her means, and no
family. She must be inordinately rich."

*' Did she come into a very large fortune at her
father's death ?"

*' 0, I believe old Fausset was almost a millionaire,
and he had only a son and a daughter. But it
is not so much the amount she inherited as the
amount she must have saved. Think how she must
have nursed her income, with her quiet way of
living ! Only four indoor servants and a coachman ;
no garden, and one fat brougham horse. She must
be rolling in money."

She gives away a great deal."

"Nothing compared with what other people
spend. Money goes a long way in charity. Ten
pounds makes a good show on a subscription list;
but what is it in a butcher's book ? I daresay my
three boys have spent as much at Oxford in the last
six years as Miss Fausset has given in charity within
the same time ; and we are poor people."

It pleased Miss Fausset to live quietly, and to
spend very little money upon splendours of any
kind. There was distinction enough for her in the
intellectual ascendency she had acquired among
those church-going Brightonians who thought exactly
as she thought. Her spacious, well-appointed house;
her experienced servants  cook, housemaid, lady's-maid,

and butler ; her neat little brougham and
perfect brougham horse realised all her desires in
the way of luxury. Her own diet was of an almost
ascetic simplicity, and her servants were on board-wages;
but she gave her visitors the best that the
season or the fashion could suggest to an experienced
cook. Even her afternoon tea was considered superior
to everybody else's tea, and her table was provided
with daintier cakes and biscuits than were to be seen
elsewhere.

Her house had been decorated and furnished
under her own direction, and was marked in all
particulars by that grain of Puritanism which was
noticeable in the lady's attire. The carpets and
curtains in the two drawing-rooms were silver-gray;
the furniture was French, and belonged to
the period of the Directory, when the graceful lightness
of the Louis Seize style was merging into
the classicism of the Empire. In Miss Fausset's
drawing-room there were none of those charming
futilities which cumber the tables of more frivolous
women. Here Mr. Cancellor would have found
room, and to spare, for his hat  room for a committee

meeting, or a mission service, indeed  on
that ample expanse of silvery velvet pile, a small
arabesque pattern in different shades of gray.

The grand piano was the principal feature of the
larger room, but it was not draped or disguised,
sophisticated by flower-vases, or made glorious with
plush, after the manner of fashionable pianos. It
stood forth  a concert grand, in unsophisticated
bulk of richly carved rosewood, a Broadwood piano,
and nothing more. The inner room was lined with
bookshelves, and had the air of a room that was
meant for usefulness rather than hospitality. A
large, old-fashioned rosewood secretaire, of the
Directory period, occupied the space at the side of
the wide single window, which commanded a view of
dead walls covered with Virginia creeper, and in the
distance a glimpse of the crocketed spire of St.
Edmund's, a reproduction in little of one of the
turrets of the Sainte Chapelle.

Two-thirds of the volumes in those tall bookcases
were of a theological character ; the remaining third
consisted of those standard works which everybody

likes to possess, but which only the superior few
care to read.

Mildred had telegraphed in the morning to
announce her visit, and she found her aunt's confidential
man-servant, a German Swiss, and her aunt's
neat little brougham waiting for her at the station.
Miss Fausset herself was in the inner drawing-room
ready to receive her.

There was something in the chastened colouring
and perfect order of that house in Lewes Crescent
which always chilled Mildred upon entering it after
a long interval. It was more than three years since
she had visited her aunt, and this afternoon in the
fading light the silver-gray drawing-rooms looked
colder and emptier than usual.

Miss Fausset rose to welcome her niece, and
imprinted a stately kiss on each cheek.

My dear Mildred, you have given me a very
agreeable surprise," she said; "but I hope it is no
family trouble that has brought you to me  so
suddenly."

She looked at her niece searchingly with her
cold gray eyes. She was a handsome woman still.

at fifty-seven years of age. Her features were faultless,
and the oval of her face was nearly as perfect as
it had been at seven-and-twenty. Her abundant hair
was silvery gray, and worn a la Marie Antoinette, a
style which lent dignity to her appearance. Her
dinner-gown of dark gray silk fitted her tall, upright
figure to perfection, and her one ornament, an
antique diamond cross, half hidden by the folds of
her lace fichu, was worthy of the rich Miss Fausset.

"Yes, aunt, it is trouble that has brought me
to you  very bitter trouble ; but it is just possible
that you can help me to conquer it. I have come
to you for help, if you can give it."

"My dear child, you must know I would do
anything in my power  " Miss Fausset began, with
gentle deliberation.

Yes, yes, I know," Mildred answered, almost
impatiently. "I know that you will be sorry forme,
but you may not be able to do anything. It is
a forlorn hope. In such a strait as mine one
catches at any hope."

Her aunt's measured accents jarred upon her
overstrung nerves. Her grief raged within her like

a fever, and the grave placidity of the elder woman
tortured her. There seemed no capacity for sympathy
in this stately spinster who stood and scanned
her with coldly inquisitive eyes.

Can we he quite alone for a little while, aunt ?
Are you sure of no one interrupting us while I am
telling you my troubles ?"

I will give an order. It is only half-past six,
and we do not dine till eight. There is no reason
we should be disturbed. Come and sit over here,
Mildred, on this sofa. Your maid can take your
hat and jacket to your room."

Stray garments lying about in those orderly
drawing-rooms would have been agony to Miss
Fausset. She rang the bell, and told the servant to
send Mrs. Greswold's maid, and to take particular
care that no visitor was admitted.

"I can see nobody this evening," she said. *'If
any one calls you will say I have my niece with me,
and cannot be disturbed."

Franz, the Swiss butler, bowed with an air of
understanding the finest shades of feeling in that
honoured mistress. He brought out a tea-table,

and placed it conveniently near the sofa on which
Mildred was sitting, and he placed upon it the neatest
of salvers, with tiny silver teapot and Worcester
cup and saucer, and bread and butter such as Titania
herself might have eaten with an ''apricock" or a
bunch of dewberries. Then he discreetly retired,
and sent Louisa, who smelt of tea and toast already,
though she could not have been more than ten
minutes in the great stony basement, which would
have accommodated a company of infantry just as
easily as the spinster's small establishment.

Louisa took the jacket and hat and her mistress's
keys, and withdrew to finish her tea and to discuss
the motive and meaning of this extraordinary
journey from Enderby to Brighton. The gossips
over the housekeeper's tea-table inclined to the idea
that Mrs. Greswold had found a letter  a compromising
letter  addressed to her husband by some
lady with whom he had been carrying on an intrigue,
in all probability Mrs. Hillersdon of Riverdale.

"We all know who she was before Mr. Millers
married her," said Louisa ; " and don't tell me
that a woman who has behaved liked that while she

was young would ever be really prudent. Mrs.
Hillersdon must be fifty if she's a day ; but she is a
handsome woman still, and who knows ?  she may
have been an old flame of my master's."

"That's it," sighed Franz assenting. "It's
generally an old flame that does the mischief. Wir
sind armer Thieren.'

"And now, my dear, tell me what has gone
wrong with you," said Miss Fausset, seating herself
on the capacious sofa  low, broad, luxurious, one of
Arundel's masterpieces  beside her niece.

The rooms were growing shadowy. A small fire
burned in the bright steel grate, and made the one
cheerful spot in the room, touching the rich bindings
of the books with gleams of light.

0, it is a long story, aunt ! I must begin at
the beginning. I have a question to ask you, and
your answer means life or death to me."

A question  to  ask  me ?"

Miss Fausset uttered the words slowly, spacing
them out, one by one, in her clear, calm voice  the
voice that had spoken at committee meetings, and

had laid down the law in matters charitable and
ecclesiastical many times in that good town of
Brighton.

I must go back to my childhood, aunt, in the
first place," began Mildred, in her low, earnest voice,
her hands clasped, her eyes fixed upon her aunt's
coldly correct profile, between her and the light
of the fire, the wide window behind her, with the
day gradually darkening after the autumnal sunset.
The three eastward-looking windows in the large
room beyond had a ghostly look, with their long
guipure curtains closely drawn against the dying
light.

I must go back to the time when I was seven
years old, and my dear father," falteringly, and with
tears in her voice, " brought home his adopted
daughter, Fay  Fay Fausset, he called her. She
was fourteen and I was only seven, but I was very
fond of her all the same. We took to each other
from the beginning. When we left London and
went to The Hook, Fay went with us. I was ill
there, and she helped to nurse me. She was very
good to me  kinder than I can say, and I loved her

as if she had been my sister. But when I got well
she was sent away  sent to a finishing-school at
Brussels, and I never saw her again. She had only
lived with us one short summer. Yet it seemed as
if she and I had been together all my life. I missed
her sorely. I missed her for years afterwards."

*' My tender-hearted Mildred!" said Miss Fausset
gently. "It was like you to give your love to a
stranger, and to be so faithful to her memory !"

*' 0, but she was not a stranger ! she was something
nearer and dearer. I could hardly have been
so fond of her if there had not been some link
between us."

Nonsense, Mildred ! A warm-hearted child
will take to any one near her own age who is kind
to her. Why should this girl have been anything
more than an orphan, whom your father adopted out
of the generosity of his heart ?"

0, she was something more ! There was a
mystery. Did you ever see her, aunt? I don't
remember your coming to Parchment Street or to
The Hook while she was with us."

"No. I was away from England part of that

year. I spent the autumn at Baden with my friends
the Templemores."

"Ah, then you knew nothing of the trouble
Fay made in our home  most innocently? It is
such a sad story, aunt. I can hardly bear to touch
upon it, even to you, for it cast a shadow upon my
father's character. You know how I loved and honoured
him, and how it must pain me to say one
word that reflects upon him."

Yes, I know you loved him. You could not
love him too well, Mildred. He was a good man  a
large-hearted, large-minded man."

And yet that one act of his, bringing poor Fay
into his home, brought unhappiness upon us all.
My mother seemed set against her from the very
first ; and on her death-bed she told me that Fas
was my father's daughter. She gave me no proof 
she told me nothing beyond that one cruel fact*
Fay was the offspring of hidden sin. She told me
this, and told me to remember it all my life. Do
you think, aunt, she was justified in this accusation
against my father ?"

"How can I tell, Mildred?" Miss Fausset an-vol.

II. G

swerved coldly. "My brother may have had secrets
from me."

' But did you never hear anything  any hint of
this mystery ? Did you never know anything about
your brother's life in the years before his marriage
which would serve as a clue ? He could hardly have
cared for any one  been associated with any one 
and you not hear something  "

' If you mean did I ever hear that my brother
had a mistress, I can answer no," replied Miss
Fausset, in a very unsympathetic voice. " But men
do not usually allow such things to be known to
their sisters, especially to a younger sister, as I was
by a good many years. He may have been  like
other men. Few of them seem free from the stain
of sin. But however that may have been, I know
nothing about the matter."

'rand you do not know the secret of Fay's
parentage  you, my father's only sister  his only
surviving relation. Can you help me to find anyone
who knew more about his youth  any confidential
friend  any one who can tell me whether that
girl was really my sister ?"

No, Mildred. I have no knowledge of your
father's friends. They are all dead and gone, perhaps.
But what can it matter to you who this girl
was ? She is dead. Let the secret of her existence
die with her. It is wisest, most charitable to do so."

"Ah, you know she is dead!" cried Mildred
quickly. *' Where and when did she die ? How did
you hear of her ?"

From your father. She died abroad. I do
not remember the year."

Was it before my marriage ?"

Yes, I believe so."

Long before ?"

Two or three years, perhaps. I cannot tell
you anything precisely. The matter was of no
moment to me."

*' aunt, it is life and death to me. She was
my husband's first wife. She and I  daughters of
one father  as I, alas ! can but believe we were 
married the same man."

** I never heard your husband was a widower."

No, nor did I know it until a few weeks ago ;"
and then, as clearly as her distress of mind would

allow, Mildred told how the discovery had been
made.

The evidence of a photograph  which may he
a good or a bad likeness  is a small thing to go
upon, Mildred," said her aunt. " I think you have
been very foolish to make up your mind upon such
evidence."

** 0, but there are other facts  coincidences !
And nothing would make me doubt the identity of
the original of that photograph with Fay Fausset.
I recognised it at the first glance ; and Bell, who
saw it afterwards, knew the face immediately. There
could be no error in that. The only question is
about her parentage. I thought, if there were room
for doubt in the face of my mother's death-bed statement,
you could help me. But it is all over. You
were my last hope," said Mildred despairingly.

She let her face sink forward upon her clasped
hands. Only in this moment did she know how she
had clung to the hope that her aunt would be able
to assure her she was mistaken in her theory of
Fay's parentage.

'' My dear Mildred," began Miss Fausset, after

a pause, " the words you have just used  ' death-bed
statement '  seem to mean something very solemn,
indisputable, irrevocable ; but I must beg you to
remember that your poor mother was a very weak
woman and a very exacting wife. She was offended
with my brother for his adoption of an orphan girl.
I have heard her hold forth about her wrongs many
a time, vaguely, not daring to accuse him before
me ; but still I could understand the drift of her
thoughts. She may have nursed these vague suspicions
of hers until they seemed to her like positive
facts ; and on her death-bed, her brain enfeebled by
illness, she may have made direct assertions upon
no other ground than those long-cherished suspicions
and the silent jealousies of years. I do not
think, Mildred, you ought to take any decisive step
upon the evidence of your mother's jealousy."

My mother spoke with conviction. She must
have known something  she must have had some
proof. But even if it were possible she could have
spoken so positively without any other ground than
jealous feeling, there are other facts that cry aloud
to me, evidences to which I dare not shut my eyes.

Fay must have belonged to some one, aunt," pursued
Mildred, with growing earnestness, clasping her
hands upon Miss Fausset's arm as they sat side by
side in the gathering darkness. " There must have
been some reason  and a strong one  for her presence
in our house. My father was not a man to
act upon caprice. I never remember any foolish or
frivolous act of his in all the years of my girlhood.
He was a man of thought and purpose ; he did
nothing without a motive. He would not have
charged himself with the care of that poor girl unless
he had considered it his duty to protect her."

Perhaps not."

** I am sure not. Then comes the question,
who was she if she was not my father's daughter ?
He had no near relations, he had no bosom friend
that I ever heard of  no friend so dear that he would
deem it his duty to adopt that friend's orphan child.
There is no other clue to the mystery that I can
imagine. Can you, aunt, suggest any other solution
?"

"No, Mildred, I cannot."

If there were no other evidence within my

knowledge, my father's manner alone would have
given me a clue to his secret. He so studiously
evaded my inquiries about Fay  there was such a
settled melancholy in his manner when he spoke of
her."

"Poor John! he had a heart of gold, Mildred.
There never was a truer man than your father. Be
sure of that, come what may."

"I have never doubted that."

There was a pause of some minutes after this.
The two women sat in silence looking at the fire,
which had burned red and hollow since Franz had
last attended to it. Mildred sat with her head leaning
against her aunt's shoulder, her hand clasping
her aunt's hand. Miss Fausset sat erect as a dart,
looking steadily at the fire, her lips compressed and
resolute, the image of unfaltering purpose.

"And now, Mildred," she began at last, in those
measured accents which Mildred remembered in her
childhood as an association of awe, " take an old
woman's advice, and profit by an old woman's experience
of life if you can. Put this suspicion of yours
on one side  forget it as if it had never been, and

go back to your good and faithful husband. This
suspicion of yours is but a suspicion at most, founded
on the jealous fancy of one of the most fanciful
women I ever knew. Why should George Greswold's
life be made desolate because your mother was a
bundle of nerves ? Forget all you have ever thought
about that orphan girl, and go back to your duty asa
wife."

Mildred started away from her aunt, and left the
sofa as if she had suddenly discovered herself in
contact with the Evil One.

** Aunt, you astound, you horrify me!" she exclaimed.
" Can you be so false to the conduct and
principles of your whole life  can you put duty to a
husband before duty to God ? Have I not sworn to
honour Him with all my heart, with all my strength ;
and am I to yield to the weak counsel of my heart,
which would put my love of the creature above my
honour of the Creator ? Would you counsel me to
persist in an unholy union  you whose life has been
given up to the service of God  you who have put
His service far above all earthly affections ; you who
have shown yourself so strong : can you counsel me

to be so weak : and to let m}' love  my fond true love
for my dear one  conquer my knowledge of the
right ? Who knows if my darling's death may not
have been God's judgment upon iniquity  God's
judgment  "

She had burst into sudden tears at the mention
of her husband's name, with all that tenderness his
image evolved ; but at that word judgment she
stopped abruptly with a half-hysterical cry, as a
vision of the past flashed into her mind.

She remembered the afternoon of the return to
Enderby, and how her husband had knelt by his
daughter's grave, believing himself alone, and how
there had come up from that prostrate figure a bitter
cry :

'' Judgment ! judgment !"

Did he know ? Was that the remorseful ejaculation
of one who knew himself a deliberate sinner ?

Miss Fausset endured this storm of reproof without
a word. She never altered her attitude, or
wavered in her quiet contemplation of the fading
fire. She waited while Mildred paced up and down
the room in a tempest of passionate feeling, and

then she said, even more quietly than she had spoken
before,

*' My dear Mildred, I have given you my advice,
conscientiously. If you refuse to be guided by the
"wisdom of one who is your senior by a quarter of a
century, the consequences of your obstinacy must be
upon your own head. I only know that if I had as
good a man as George Greswold for my husband " 
with a little catch in her voice that sounded almost
like a sob  "it would take a great deal more than a
suspicion to part me from him. And now, Mildred,
if you mean to dress for dinner, it is time you went
to your room."

In any other house, and with any other hostess,
Mildred would have asked to be excused from sitting
down to a formal dinner, and to spend the rest of
the evening in her own room ; but she knew her
aunt's dislike of any domestic irregularity, so she
went away meekly, and put on the black lace gown
which Louisa had laid out for her, and returned to
the drawing-room at five minutes before eight.

She had been absent half an hour, but it seemed
to her as if Miss Fausset had not stirred since she

left her. The lamps were lighted, the fire had been
made up, and the silver-gray brocade curtains were
drawn ; but the mistress of the house was sitting in
exactly the same attitude on the sofa near the fire,
erect, motionless, with her thoughtful gaze fixed
upon the burning coals in the bright steel grate.

Aunt and niece dined tete-astute, ministered toby
the experienced Franz, who was thorough master
of his calling. All the details of that quiet dinner
were of an elegant simplicity, but everything was
perfect after its fashion, from the soup to the dessert,
from the Irish damask to the old English silver 
everything such as befitted the station of a lady who
was often spoken of as the rich Miss Fausset.

The evening passed in mournful quiet. Mildred
played two of Mozart's sonatas at her aunt's request
sonatas which she had played in her girlhood
before the advent of her first and only lover, the
lover who was now left widowed and desolate in that
time which should have been the golden afternoon
of life. As her fingers played those familiar movements,
her mind was at Enderby with the husband
she had deserted. How was he bearing his solitude?

Would he shut his heart against her in
anger, teach himself to live without her ? She
pictured him in his accustomed corner of the ,
with his lamp-lit table, and pile of books
and papers, and Pamela seated on the other side of
the room, and the dogs lying on the hearth, and the
room all aglow with flowers in the subdued light of
the shaded lamps ; so different from these colourless
rooms of Miss Fausset's, with their look as of
vaulted halls, in which voices echo with hollow
reverberations amidst empty space.

And then she thought of her own desolate life,
and wondered what it was to be. She felt as if she
had no strength of mind to chalk out a path for
herself  to create for herself a mission. That
sublime idea of living for others, of a life devoted to
finding the lost ones of Israel  or nursing the sick
or teaching children the way of righteousness 
left her cold. Her thoughts dwelt persistently upon
her own loves, her own losses, her own ideal of
happiness.

"I am of the earth earthy," she thought
despairingly, as her fingers lingered over a slow

movement. " If I were like Clement Cancellor,
my own individual sorrow would seem as nothing
compared with that vast sum of human suffering
which he is always trying to lessen."

May I ask what your plans are for the future,
Mildred ?" said Miss Fausset, laying aside a memoir
of Bishop Selwyn, which she had been reading while
her niece played. *' I need hardly tell you that I
shall be pleased to have you here as long as you
care to stay ; but I should like to know your scheme
of life  in the event of your persistence in a separation
from your husband."

*'I have made no definite plan, aunt; I shall
spend the autumn in some quiet watering-place in
Germany, and perhaps go to Italy for the winter."

"Why to Italy?"

It is the dream of my life to see that country,
and my husband always refused to take me there."

For some good reason, no doubt."

I believe he had a dread of fever. I know of
no other reason."

You are prompt to take advantage of your
independence."

Indeed, aunt, I have no idea of that kind.
God help me ! my independence is a sorry privilege.
But if any country could help me to forget my
sorrows, that country would be Italy."

And after the winter ? Do you mean to live
abroad altogether ?"

I don't know what I may do. I have thoughts
of entering a sisterhood by and by."

Well, you must follow your own course,
Mildred. I can say no more than I have said
already. If you make up your mind to renounce
the world there are sisterhoods all over England,
and there is plenty of good work to be done.
Perhaps after all it is the best life, and that those
are happiest who shut their minds against earthly
affections."

As you have done, aunt," said Mildred, with
respect. " I know how full of good works your life
has been."

'I have tried to do my duty according to my
lights," answered the spinster gravely.

The next day was cold and stormy, autumn with
a foretaste of winter. Mildred went to the morning



service with her aunt, in the bright new Gothic
church which Miss Fausset's liberality had helped
to create : a picturesque temple with clustered
columns and richly floated capitals, diapered roof,
and encaustic pavement, and over all things the
glow of many-coloured lights from painted windows.
Miss Fausset spent the morning in visiting among
the poor. She had a large district out in the
London Road, in a part of Brighton of which
the fashionable Brightening hardly knoweth the
existence.

Mildred sat in the back drawing-room all the
morning, pretending to read. She took volume
after volume out of the bookcase, turned over the
leaves, or sat staring at a page for a quarter of an
hour at a time, in hopeless vacuity of mind. She
had brooded upon her trouble until her brain
seemed benumbed, and nothing was left of that
sharp sorrow but a dull aching pain.

After luncheon she went out for a solitary walk
on the cliff-road that leads eastward. It was a
relief to find herself alone upon that barren down,
with the great stormy sea in front of her, and the

busy world left behind. She walked all the way to
Kottingdean, rejoicing in her solitude, dreading the
return to the stately silver-gray drawing-room and
her aunt's society. Looking down at the village
nestling in the hollow of the hills, it seemed to her
that she might hide her sorrows almost as well in
that quiet nook as in the remotest valley in Europe ;
and it seemed to her also that this place of all
others was best fitted for the establishment of any
charitable foundation in a small way  for a home for
the aged poor, for instance, or for orphan children.
Her own fortune would amply suffice for any such
modest foundation. The means were at her
disposal. Only the will was wanting.

It was growing dusk when she went back to
Lewes Crescent, so she went straight to her room
and dressed for dinner before going to the drawing-room.
The wind, with its odour of the sea, had
refreshed her. She felt less depressed, better able
to face a life-long sorrow, than before she went out,
but physically she was exhausted by the six-mile
walk, and she looked pale as ashes in her black
gown, with its evening bodice, showing the

alabaster throat and a large black enamel locket
set with a monogram in diamonds  L. G., Laura
Greswold.

She entered the inner room. Her aunt was not
there, and there was only one large reading-lamp
burning on a table near the fire. The front
drawing-room was in shadow. She went towards
the piano, intending to play to herself in the
twilight, tut as she moved slowly in the direction
of the instrument a strong hand played the closing
bars of a fugue by Sebastian Bach, a chain of solemn
chords that faded slowly into silence.

The hands that played those chords were the
hands of a master. It was hardly a surprise to
Mildred when a tall figure rose from the piano, and
Cesar Castellani stood before her in the dim light.

His hat and gloves were upon the piano, as if
he had just entered the room.

My dear Mrs. Greswold, how delightful to
find you here ! I came to make a late call upon
your aunt  she is always indulgent to my Bohemian
indifference to etiquette  and had not the least idea
that I should see you."

VOL. II. H

"I did not know that you and my aunt were
friends'

No ?" interrogatively. " That is very odd, for
we are quite old friends. Miss Fausset was all
goodness to me when I was an idle undergraduate."


Yet when you came to Enderby you brought
an introduction from Mrs. Tomkison. Surely my
aunt would have been a better person  "

No doubt ; but it is just like me to take the first
sponsor who came to hand. When I am in London
I half live at Mrs. Tomkison's, and I had heard her
rave about you until I became feverishly anxious to
make your acquaintance. I ought perhaps to have
referred to Miss Fausset for my credentials  but I
am volage by nature : and then I knew Mrs.
Tomkison would exaggerate my virtues and ignore
my errors."

Mildred went back to the inner room, and
seated herself by the reading-lamp. Castellani
followed her, and placed himself on the other side
of the small octagon table, leaving only a narrow
space between them.

How pale you are I" he said, with a look of
concern. *' I hope you are not ill ?"

No, I am only tired after a long walk."

I had no idea you had left Enderby."

*' Indeed !"

You said nothing of your intention of leaving
the neighbourhood the day before yesterday''

There was no occasion to talk of my plans,"
Mildred answered coldly. " We were all too
anxious about the concert to think of any other
matter."

Did you leave soon after the concert?"

The same evening. I did not know you were
leaving Riverdale."

0, I only only stayed for the concert. I had
protracted my visit unconscionably, but Mrs. Hill
was good enough not to seem tired of me.
I am in nobody's way, and I contrived to please her
with my music. Did you not find her delightfully
artistic?"

I thought her manners charming ; and she
seems fond of music, if that is what you mean by
beinjr artistic."

0, I mean worlds more than that. Mrs.
Hillersdon is artistic to her fingers' ends. In
everything she does one feels the artist. Her dress,
her air, her way of ordering a dinner or arranging a
room  her feeling for literature  she seldom reads
her feeling for form and colour  she cannot draw
a line  her personality is the very essence of
modern art. She is as a woman what Ruskin is asa
man. Is Miss Ransome with you ?"

No, I have left her to keep house for me."

It seemed a futile thing to make believe that
all was well at Enderby, to ward off explanations,
when before long the world must know that George
Griswold and his wife were parted for ever. Some
reason would have to be given. That thirst for
information about the inner life of one's neighbours
which is the ruling passion of this waning century
must be slaked somehow. It was partly on this
account, perhaps, that Mildred fancied it would be a
good thing for her to enter a Sisterhood. The
curious could be satisfied then. It would be said
that Mrs. Greswold had given up the world.

** She is a very sweet girl," said Castellani

thoughtfully: *' pretty too, a delicious complexion,
hair that suggests Sabrina after a visit from the
hairdresser, a delightful figure, and very nice manners
 but she leaves me as cold as ice. Why is it
that only a few women in the world have magnetic
power ? They are so few, and their influence i-3 so
stupendous. Think of the multitude of women of
all nations, colours, and languages that go to makeup
one Cleopatra or one Mary Stuart."

Miss Fausset came into the room while he was
talking, and was surprised at seeing him in such
earnest conversation with her niece.

One would suppose you had known each other
for years," she said, as she shook hands with Castellani,
looking from one to the other.

*' And so we have," he answered gaily " In
some lives weeks mean years. I sometimes catch
myself wondering what the world was like before I
knew Mrs. Greswold."

"How long have you known her  without
rodomontade ?"

*' For about a month, aunt," replied Mildred.
I have been asking Mr. Castellani why he came

to me with an introduction from my friend Mrs.
Tomkison, when it would have been more natural
to present himself as a friend of yours."

0, he has always a motive for what he does,"
Miss Fausset said coldly. " You will stay to dinner,
of course ?" she added to Castellani.

"I am free for this evening, and I should like
to stay, if you can forgive my morning coat."

I am used to irregularities from you. Give
Mrs. Greswold your arm."

Franz was at the door, announcing the evening
meal, and presently Mildred found herself seated at
the small round table in the sombre spacious diningroom
 a room with a bayed front, commanding an
illimitable extent of sea  with Cesar Castellani sitting
opposite her. The meal was livelier than the
dinner of last night. Castellani appeared unconscious
that Mildred was out of spirits. He was full of life
and gaiety, and had an air of happiness which was
almost contagious. His conversation was purely
intellectual, ranging through the world of mind
and of fancy, scarcely touching things earthly and
human ; and thus he struck no jarring chord in

Mildred's weary heart. So far as she could be distracted
from the ever-present thought of loss and
sorrow, his conversation served to distract her.

He went up to the drawing-room with the two
ladies, and at Miss Fausset's request sat down to
the piano. The larger room was still in shadow,
the smaller bright with fire and lamplight.

He played as only the gifted few can play  played
as one in whom music is a sixth sense, but to-night
his music was new to Mildred. He played none of
those classic numbers which had been familiar to
her ever since she had known what music meant.
His muse to-night was full of airy caprices, quips
and cranks and wreathed smiles. It was operatic
music, of the stage stage; a music which seemed on
a level with Watteau or Tissot in the sister art  gay
to audacity, and sentimental to affectation. It was
charming music all the same  charged with melody,
gracious, complacent, uncertain, like an April day.

Whatever it was, every movement was familiar to
Gertrude Fausset. She sat with her long ivory
knitting-needles at rest on her lap  sat in a dreamy
attitude, gazing at the fire and listening intently.

Some melodies seemed to touch her almost to tears.
The love of music ran in the Fausset family, and
it was no surprise to Mildred to see her aunt so
absorbed. What had an elderly spinster to live for
if it were not philanthropy and art ? And for the
plastic arts  for pictures and porcelain, statuary or
high-art furniture  Miss Fausset cared not a jot, as
those barren drawing-rooms, with their empty walls
and pallid colour, bore witness. Music she loved
with unaffected devotion, and it was in nowise
strange to find her the friend and patroness of Cesar
Castellani, opposite as were the opinions of the man
who wrote Nepenthe and the woman who had helped
to found the church of St. Edmund the Confessor.

"Play the duet at the end of the second act,"
she said, when he paused after a brilliant six-eight
movement which suggested a joyous chorus.

He played a cantabile accompaniment, like the
flow of summer seas, and then a plaintive melody
for two voices  following, answering, echoing each
other with tearful emphasis  a broken phrase here
and there, as if the singer were choked by a despairing
sob.

"What is the name of the opera, aunt?" asked
Mildred; '*I never heard any of that music before."


'' He has been playing selections from different
operas. That last melody is a duet in an opera called
La Donna del Pittore.''

By what composer ? It sounded like Flotow."

*' It is not Flotow's. That opera was written by
Mr. Castellani's father."

*' I remember he told me his father had written
operas. It is a pity his music was never known in
England."

*you had better say it was a pity his music
was never fashionable in Paris. Had it been recognised
there, English connoisseurs would have speedily
discovered its merits. We are not a musical nation,
Mildred. We find new planets, but we never discover
new musicians. We took up Weber only to neglect
him and break his heart. We had not taste enough
to understand Mendelssohn's Melusine.''

Mr. Castellani's operas were popular in Italy,
were they not?"

"For a time, yes; but the Italians are as capricious

as we are dull. Cesar tells me that his father's
operas have not held the stage."

Were they fashionable in your time, aunt, when
you were studying music at Milan ?"

"Yes, they were often performed at that time.
I used to hear them occasionally."

And you like them now. They are associated
with your girlhood. I can understand that they
must have a peculiar charm for you."

Yes, they are full of old memories."

"Do you never play or sing yourself, aunt?"

"I play a little sometimes, when I am quite
alone."

But never to give pleasure to other people ?
That seems unkind. I remember how proud my
father was of your musical talent; but you would
never let us hear you either at The Hook or in
Parchment Street."

I have never cared to play or sing before an
audience  since I was a girl. You need not wonder
at me, Mildred. Different people have different
ways of thinking. My pleasure in music of late
years has been the pleasure of a listener. Mr.

Castellani is good enough to gratify me sometimes,
as he has done to-night, when he has nothing better
to do."

'' Do not say that," exclaimed Castellani, coming
into the glow of the hearth, and seating himself
beside Miss Fausset's armchair. *' What can I
have better to do than to commune with a sympathetic
mind like yours  in the language of the
dead ? It is almost as if my father's vanished voice
were speaking to you," he said, in caressing tones,
bending down to kiss the thin pale hand which lay
idle on the arm of the chair.

THE FUTURE MIGHT BE DARKER.

George Greswold was not the kind of man to sit
down in idle submission to Fate under a great wrong
or under a great loss. A feeling of blank despair
had come upon him after his interview with Mrs.
Bell, in the solitude of those deserted rooms where
every object spoke to him of his wife's absence 
where the influence of her mind and fancy was a part
of the very atmosphere : so much so that in spite
of her farewell letter in his breast-pocket he started
every now and then from his reverie, fancying he
heard her footstep in the corridor, or her voice in an
adjoining room.

His conversation with Bell had brought him
little comfort, but it had not convinced him of the
evil in which his wife so firmly believed. There
was little doubt in his mind that the woman he had
married eighteen years ago was identical with

Mildred's young companion and John Fausset's
protegee. But whether that mysterious protegee had
been John Fausset's daughter was a question open to
doubt. The suspicions of a jealous wife, the opinions
of the servants' hall, were no conclusive proof.

On the other hand, the weight of evidence leaned
to that one solution of the mystery in ]err. Fausset's
conduct. That a man should charge himself with
the care of a child of whose parentage and belongings
he could give no satisfactory account  about
whom, indeed, he seemed to have given no account
at all  was a strange thing. Stranger still was his
conduct in bringing that child into his own family,
to the hazard of his domestic peace. Stranger even yet
that he should have gone down to the grave without
giving his daughter any explanation of his conduct
from first to last  that he should have left the story
of his protegee as dark at the end as it had been at
the beginning.

Painfully conjuring back to life the phantom
forms of a miserable past, George Greswold recalled
the few facts which he had ever known of his first
wife's history. She was an orphan, without relations

or friends. At eighteen years of age she had been
transferred from a finishing-school at Brussels to the
care of an English artist and his wife, called
Mortimer  middle-aged people, the husband with
a small talent, the wife with a small income, both of
which went further in Brussels than they would
have gone in England. They had an apartment
on one of the new boulevards at Brussels and a
summer retreat in the Ardennes. When the artist
and his wife travelled, Vivien went with them, and
it was on one of these occasions that George Griswold
met her at Florence. Mr. Mortimer had let
his apartment at Brussels for the winter, and had
established himself in the Italian city, where he
worked assiduously at a classic style of art which
nobody ever seemed to hus, though a good many
people pretended to admire.

Vivien Faux. It sounded likeawo?. defantasie.
She told him that she was nobody, and that she
belonged to nobody. She had no home, no
people, no surroundings, no history, no associations.
She had been educated at an expensive school,
and her clothes had been made at a fashionable

dressmaker's in the Rue Montagne de la Cour.
Everything that a schoolgirl's fancy could desire had
been provided for her.

So far as such things go, I was as well off as the
most fortunate of my companions," she told him ;
*' but I was a friendless waif all the same, and my
schoolfellows despised me. I drank the cup of
scorn to the dregs."

Seeing how painful this idea of her isolation was
to her, George Greswold had been careful to avoid
all questioning that might gall the open wound. In
truth he had no keen curiosity about her past existence.
He had taken her for what she was  interesting,
clever, and in great need of a disinterested protector.
It was enough for him to know that she had
been educated as a lady, and that her character was
spotless. His marriage had been one of those
unions which are of all unions the most fatal  a
marriage for pity. A marriage for money, for self-interest,
ambition, or family pride may result happily.
In a union of mutual interests there is at least
a sense of equality, and love may grow with time and
custom ; but in a marriage for pity the chain galls on

both sides, the wife oppressed by a sense of obligation,
the husband burdened with a weight of duty.

Of his wife's resources, all George Greswold knew
was that she had a life interest in thirty thousand
pounds invested in Consols. The dividends we
sent her half-yearly by a firm of solicitors, Messrs.
Pergament & Pergament, of Lincoln's Inn Fields.
She had received a letter from the firm a week before
her last birthday, which was her twenty-first, informing
her of her life interest in this sum, over
which she would have no disposing power, nor the
power to anticipate any portion of the interest. The
half-yearly dividends, she was informed, would in
future be sent directly to her at any address she
might appoint.

In acknowledging this communication she begged
to be informed from whom she had inherited this
money, or whether it was the gift of a living benefactor,
and whether the benefactor was a relative.
The reply from Messrs. Pergament & Pergament
was cold and formal. They regretted their inability
to give her any information as to the source
of her income. They were pledged to absolute

silence upon this point. In any other matter the
would be happy to be of service to her.

George Greswold had married without a settlement.
The then state of the law, and the conditions
of his wife's income, made her independent of any
husband whatever. He could not forestall or rob
her of an income of which the capital was in the
custody of other people, and over which she had no
disposing power. He was a poor man himself at the
time, living upon an allowance made him by his
mother, eked out by the labour of his pen as a political
and philosophical writer ; but he had the
expectation of the Enderby estate, an expectation
which was all but certainty. One fact alone was
known to him of his wife's surroundings which
might help him to discover her history, and that
was the name of the firm in Lincoln's Inn, Messrs.
Pergament & Pergament, and to them he made up
his mind to apply without loss of time.

He went to London on the day after Mildred's
journey to Brighton, taking Pamela and her dog
with him to an hotel near Hanover Square where
he had occasionally stayed. Pamela had been much

VOL. II. I

disturbed by Mildred's letter, and was full of wonderment,
but very submissive, and ready to do anything
she was told.

I don't want to be inquisitive or troublesome,
uncle," she said, as they sat opposite each other in
the train, " but I am sure there is something wrong."

Yes, Pamela, there is something wrong ; but it
is something which will come right again in good
time, I hope. All we can do is to be patient."

His look of quiet pain, and the haggard lines
which told of sleepless nights and brooding thoughts,
touched Pamela's tender heart ; but she was wise
enough to know that a sorrow big enough to part
husband and wife is not a sorrow to be intruded
upon by an outsider.

Mr. Greswold drove with his niece to the hotel,
established her there with her maid and her terrier
in a private sitting-room, and then started for Lincoln's
Inn Fields in a hansom.

Messrs. Pergament's office had a solid and old-established
air, as of an office that had only to do with
wealth and respectability. The clerks in the outer
room seemed to have grown old on the premises.

**I should like to see the senior member of the
firm, if he is at liberty," said Mr. Greswold.

"Mr. Champion Pergament is at Wiesbaden.
He is a very old gentleman, and seldom comes to
the office."

The next partner, then  "

Mr. Danvers Pergament is at his place in
Yorkshire. If you would like to see his son, Mr.
Danvers jun.  "

Yes, yes, he will do if there is no one else."

There is Mr. Maltby. The firm is now Permanent,
Pergament, & Maltby."

Let me see Mr. Danvers Pergament, if you
please. I don't want to talk to a new man."

Mr. Maltby was articled to us seventeen years
ago, sir, and has been in the firm ever since, but I
believe Mr. Pergament is disengaged. Shall I take
him your name ?"

George Greswold sent in his card. His name
would be known to some members of the firm, no
doubt  possibly not to others. His married life had
been brief.

He was received in a handsome office by a bald-headed

gentleman of about five-and-fcrty, who smiled
upon him blandly from a background of oak wainscot
and crimson cloth window-curtains, like an old-fashioned
portrait.

Pray be seated, Mr. Greswold," he said, with
the visitor's card in his hand, and looking from the
card to the visitor.

"Does my name tell you anything about me
Mr. Pergament ?" asked Greswold gravely.

** George Ransome Greswold," read the lawyer
slowly; " the name of Greswold is unfamiliar to me."

But not that of Ransome. Sixteen years ago
my name was George Ransome. I assumed the
name of Greswold on my mother's death."

The solicitor looked at him with renewed attention,
as if there were something to startle his professional
equanimity in the former name.

You remember the name of Ransome ?" said
Greswold interrogatively.

Yes, it recalls certain events. Very sad circumstances
connected with a lady who was our
client. You would not wish me to go over that
ground, I am sure, Mr. Greswold ?"



"No, there is no occasion to do that. I hope
you believe that I was blameless  or as free from
blame as any man can be in his domestic conduct 
in the matter to which you have alluded ?"

I have no reason to suppose otherwise. I have
never been on the scene of the event. I knew nothing
of it until nearly a year after it happened, and
then my sources of information were of the slenderest,
and my knowledge of painful details never went
beyond this office. Pray be assured that I do not
wish to say one word that can pain you ; I would only
ask you to consider me as a totally uninformed person,
have no charge to make  upon anybody's account.
I have no questions to ask. The past is forgotten,
so far as I and my firm are concerned."

Mr. Pergament, for me the past is still living,
and it is exercising a baneful influence over my
present existence. It may blight the rest of my life.
You, perhaps, may help to extricate me from a labyrinth
of perplexity. I want to know who my first
wife was. What was the real name of the young
lady who called herself Vivien Faux, and whom I

married under that name before the British Consulat
Florence ? Who were her parents ?"

"I cannot tell you*'

**Do you mean that you cannot, or that you will
not?"

I mean both. I do not know that unfortunate
lady's parentage. I have no positive knowledge on
the subject, though I may have my own theory. I
know that certain persons were interested in the
young lady's welfare, and that certain funds were
placed in our charge for her maintenance. After her
death, the capital for which we had been trustees
reverted to those persons. That is the sum-total of
the lady's history so far as it is known to us."

"Will you tell me the name of the person who
gave my wife her income, who placed her at the
school at Brussels, by whose instructions she was
transferred to the care of Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer ?
I want to know that man's name, for that man must
have been her father."

** When my father and I undertook that business
for my client, we pledged ourselves to absolute
secrecy. The facts of the case are not known even

to the other members of the firm. The person in
question was our client, and the secret was lodged
with us. There is not a priest of the Church of
Some who holds the secrets of the confessional more
sacred than we hold that secret."

'* Even if by keeping it you blight and ruin an
innocent man's life ?"

** I cannot imagine any such consequence of our
silence."

You cannot ? No ! Fact is stranger than any
man's imagination. Do you happen to know the
name of my second wife ?"

**I did not even know that you had married
again. You were known to our firm as Mr. ransome.
We lost sight of you when you changed your
name to Greswold."

*' I have been married  happily married  for
fourteen years ; and the name of my wife was
Fausset, Mildred Fausset, daughter of John Fausset,
your client."

Mr. Pergament had taken up a penknife in a
casual manner, and was trifling with a well-kept
thumb-nail, a fine specimen of the filbert tribe, with

his eyelids lowered in an imperturbable thoughtfulness,
as of a man who was rock. But, cool as he
was, George Greswold noticed that at the name of
Fausset the penknife gave a little jerk, and the outskirts
of the filbert were in momentary danger.
Mr. Pergament was too wary to look up, however.
He sat placid, attentive, with flabby eyelids lowered
over washed-out gray eyes. Mr. Pergament at five-and-forty
was still in the chrysalis or money-making
stage, and worked hard nearly all the year round.
His father, at sixty-seven, was on the Yorkshire
moors, pretending to shoot grouse, and just beginning
to enjoy the butterfly career of a man who had
made enough to live upon.

*' Vivien Faux. Does not that sound to your ear
like an assumed name, Mr. Pergament ?" pursued
Greswold. " Faux : the first three letters are the
same as in Fausset."

And then George Greswold told the solicitor how
his second wife had recognised his first wife's
photograph, as the likeness of a girl whom she
believed to have been her half-sister, and how this
act threatened to divide husband and wife for ever.

Surely Mrs. Greswold cannot be one of those
bigoted persons who pin their faith upon a prohibition
of the Canon Law as if it were the teaching of
Christ  a prohibition which the Roman Church was
always ready to cancel in favour of its elect ?" said
the lawyer.

*' Unhappily my wife was taught in a very rigid
school. She would perish rather than violate a
principle."

'' But if your first wife were John Fausset's
natural daughter  what then ? The law does not
recognise such affinities."

No, but the Church does. The Roman Church
could create a prohibitive affinity in the case of a
cast-off mistress ; and it is the privilege of our
Anglican theology in its highest development to
adopt the most recondite theories of Rome. For
God's sake be plain with me, Mr. Pergament ! Was
the girl who called herself Vivien Faux, John
Fausset's daughter, or was she not ?"

1 regret that I cannot answer your question.
My promise to my client was of the nature of an
oath. I cannot violate that promise upon any

consideration whatever. I must ask you, Mr. Griswold,
as a gentleman, not to urge the matter any
farther."

"I submit," said Greswold hopelessly. "If it
is a point of honour with you, I can say no more."

Mr. Pergament accompanied him to the threshold
of the outer office, and the elderly clerk ushered him
to the wide old landing-place beyond. The lawyer
had been courteous, but not cordial. There was a
shade of distrustfulness in his manner, and he had
pretended to no sympathy with Mr. Greswold in his
difficulties ; but George Greswold felt that among
those who knew the history of his former marriage
there was not much likelihood of friendly feeling
towards him. To them he was a man outside the
pale.

He left the office sick at heart. This had been
his only means of coming at the knowledge of his
first wife's parentage, and this means had failed him
utterly. The surprise indicated by that slight movement
of the lawyer's hand at the first mention of
John Fausset's name went far to convince him that
Mildred's conviction was based on truth. Yet if

John Faust were Mr. Pergament's client, it was
very odd that Mr. Pergament should be ignorant of
the circumstances of Mildred's marriage, and the
name and surroundings of her husband. Odd assuredly,
but not impossible. On reflection, it seemed
by no means unnatural that Mr. Fausset should
confide his secret to a stranger, and establish a trust
with a stranger, rather than admit his family lawyer
to his confidence. This provision for an illegitimate
daughter would be an isolated transaction in his life.
He would select a firm of approved respectability,
who were unconcerned in his family affairs, with
whom there was no possibility of his wife or daughter
being brought into contact.

George Greswold drove from Lincoln's Inn to
Queen Anne's Gate, where he spent ten minutes
with Mrs. Tomkison, and learned all that lady could
tell him about his wife's movements : how she had
had a long interview with Mr. Cancellor before she
started for Brighton, and how she was looking very
ill and very unhappy. Provided with this small
stock of information, he went back to the hotel and
dined tete-astute with Pamela, who had the good

sense not to talk to him, and who devoted all her
attentions to the scion of Brockenhurst Joe.

When the waiters had left the room for good,
and uncle and niece were alone over their coffee,
Greswold became more communicative.

Pamela, you are a good, warm-hearted girl,
and I believe you would go some way to serve me,"
he said quietly, as he sat looking at Box, who had
folded his delicately-pencilled legs in a graceful attitude
upon the fender, and was amiably blinking at
the fire.

My dear uncle, I would cut off my head for
you  "

I don't quite want that ; but I want your loyal
and loving help in this saddest period of my life 
yes, the saddest ; sadder even than the sorrow of
last year ; and yet I thought there could be no
greater grief than that."

"Poor Uncle George !" sighed Pamela, bending
over the table to take his hand, and clasping it
affectionately; '* command me in anything. You
know how fond I have always been of you  almost
fonder than of my poor father. Perhaps," she added

gravely, *' it is because I always respected you more
than I did him."

** I cannot confide in you wholly, Pamela  not
yet; but I may tell you this much. Something
has happened to part my wife and me  perhaps
for life. It is her wish, not mine, that we should
live the rest of our lives apart. There has been
no wrong-doing on either side, mark you. There
is no blame ; there has been no angry feeling ;
there is no falling off in love. We are both the
victims of an intolerable fatality. I would willingly
struggle against my doom  defy Fate ; but my wife
has another way of thinking. She deems it her
duty to make her own life desolate and to condemn
me to a life-long widowhood."

"Poor Uncle George !"

*' She is DOW at Brighton with her aunt, Miss
Fausset. I am going there tomorrow morning to
see her, if she will let me  perhaps for the last time.
I want to take you with me ; and if Mildred carries
out her intention of spending the winter abroad,
I want you to go with her. I want you to wind
yourself into her confidence and into her heart, to

cheer and comfort her, and to shield her from the
malice of the world. Her position will be at best
a painful one  a wife and no wife  separated from
her husband for a reason which she will hardly care
to tell the world, perhaps will hardly confide to
her dearest friend."

*' I will do anything you wish, uncle  go anywhere,
to the end of the world. You know how
fond I am of Aunt Mildred. I'm afraid I like her
better than I do my sister, who is so wrapped up in
that absurd baby that she is sometimes unendurable.
But it seems so awfully strange that you and
aunt should be parted," continued Pamela, with
a puzzled brow. " I can't make it out one little
bit. I  I don't want to ask questions. Uncle
George  at least only just one question : has all
this mysterious trouble anything to do with Mr.
Castellani ?"

She turned crimson as she pronounced the
name, but Greswold was too absorbed to notice her
embarrassment.

With Castellani ? No. How should it concern
him ?" he exclaimed ; and then, remembering

the beginning of evil, he added, " Mr. Castellani
has nothing to do with our difficulty in a direct
manner ; but indirectly his presence at Enderby
began the mischief."

0, uncle, you were not jealous of him,
surely?"

Jealous of him ? I jealous of Castellani or
any man living ? You must know very little of
my wife or of me, Pamela, when you can ask
such a question."

"No, no; of course not. It was absurd of me
to suggest such a thing, when I know how my aunt
adores you," Pamela said hastily.

In spite of this disavowal, she lay awake
half through the night, tormenting herself withall
manner of speculations and wild imaginings
as to the cause of the separation between George
Greswold and his wife and Castellani's connection
with that catastrophe.

She went to Brighton with her uncle next day.
Box and the maid accompanying them in a second-class
compartment. They put up at an hotel
upon the East Cliff, which was more domestic and

exclusive than the caravansaries towards the setting
sun, and conveniently near Lewes Crescent.

*' Shall I go with you at once, uncle ?" asked
Pamela, as Greswold was leaving the house. ' I
hope Miss Fausset is not a stern old thing, who will
freeze me with a single look."

She is not so bad as that, but I will break the
ice for you. I am going to see my wife alone
before I take you to Lewes Crescent. You can goon
the Madeira Walk with Peterson, and give Box
an airing."

George Greswold found his wife sitting alone
near the open piano at which Castellani had made
such exquisite music the night before. She had
been playing a little, trying to find comfort in that
grand music of Beethoven, which was to her as the
prophecies of Isaiah, or the loftiest passages in the
Apocalypse  seeking comfort and hope, but finding
none. And now she was gazing sadly at the waste
of waters, and thinking that her own future life
resembled that barren sea  a wide and sunless
waste, with neither haven nor ship in sight.

At the sound of her husband's footsteps entering
unannounced at the further door she started up,
with her heart beating vehemently, speechless and
trembling. She felt as if they were meeting after
years of absence  felt as if she must fling herself
upon his breast and claim him as her own again,
confessing herself too earthly a creature to live
without that sweet human love.

She had to steel herself by the thought of
obedience to a higher law than that of human
passion. She stood before him deathly pale, but
firm as a rock.

He came close up to her, laid his hand upon her
shoulder, and looked her in the face, earnestly,
solemnly even.

Mildred, is it irrevocable ? Can you sacrifice
me for a scruple ?"

*' It is more than a scruple : it is the certainty
that there is but one right course, and that I must
hold by it to the end."

That certainty does not come out of your own
heart or your own mind. It is Cancellor who has
made this law for you  Cancellor, a fanatic, who

VOL. II. K

knows nothing of domestic love  Cancellor, a man
without a wife and without a home. Is he to judge
between you and me ? Is he, who knows nothing
of the sacredness of wedded ties, to be allowed to
break them, only because he wears a cassock and
has an eloquent tongue ?"

*' It was he who taught me my duty when I was
a child. I accept his teaching now as implicitly as
I accepted it then."

"And you do not mind breaking my heart:
that does not hurt you," said Greswold.

His face was pallid as hers, and his lips
trembled, half in anger, half in scorn.

*' 0, George, you know my own heart is breaking.
There can be no greater pain possible to humanity
than I have suffered since I left you."

And you will inflict this agony, and bear this
agony? You will break two hearts because of an
anomaly in the marriage law  a rag of Some  a
source of profit to Pope and priest  a prohibition
made to be annulled  a trap to fill the coffers of the
Church ! Do you know how foolish a law it is,
child, for which you show this blind reverence ?

Do you know that it is only a bigoted minority
among the nations that still abides by it? Do you
know that in that great new world across the seas a
woman may be a wife in one colony, and not a wife
in another  honourable here, despised there ? It is
all too foolish. "What is it to either of us if my first
wife was your half-sister  a fact which neither of us
can prove or disprove ?"

*' God help me ! it is proved only too clearly tome.
We bear the mark of our birthright in our
faces. You must have seen that, George, long
before I saw Fay's portrait in your hands. Are we
not alike ?"

"Not with the likeness of sisters. There is a
look which might be a family likeness  a look which
puzzled me like the faint memory of a dream when
first I knew you. It was long before I discovered
what the likeness was, and where it lay. At most
it was but a line here and there. The arch of tho
brow, the form of the eyelid, an expression about the
mouth when you smile. Such accidental resemblances
are common enough. She was as much
like Cesar Castellani as she is like you. I have

seen a look in his face that curiously recalls an expression
of hers."

"George, if I were not convinced, do you think
I would grieve you, and sacrifice all I have of earthly
happiness ? I cannot reason upon this question.
My conscience has answered it for me."

*' So be it. Let conscience be your guide, and
not love. I have done."

He took both her hands in his, and held them
long, looking in her face as he went on with what
he had to say to her, gravely, without anger, but
with a touch of coldness that placed her very faraway
from him, and marked the beginning of a lifelong
strangeness.

"It is settled, then," he said ; "ewe part forever
; but we are not going to air our story in the
law-courts, or fill latest editions of evening papers
with the details of our misery. We don't want the
law to annul our marriage upon the ground of a
forbidden affinity, and to cast a slur upon our child
in her grave."

No, no, no !"

'* Then, though we are to spend our lives apart

henceforward, in the eyes of the world you will still
be my wife ; and I would not have the lady who
was once my wife placed in a false position. You
cannot wander about the Continent alone, Mildred 
you are too young and too attractive to travel without
companionship. I have brought Pamela to be
your companion. The presence of my niece at your
side will tell the world that you have done no wrong
to me or my name. It may be fairly supposed that
we part from some incompatibility of temper. You
need give no explanations ; and you may be assured
I shall answer no questions."

You are very good," she faltered. " I shall he
glad to have your niece with me, only I am afraid
the life will be a dreary one for her."

She does not think that. She is much attached
to you. She is a frank warm-hearted girl, with
some common sense under a surface of frivolity.
She is at my hotel near at hand. If you think your
aunt will give her hospitality, she can come to you
at once, and you and she can discuss all your plans,
together. If there is anything in the way of business
or money matters that I can arrange for you  '*

No, there is nothing," she said in a low voice ;
and then, suddenly, she knelt at his feet, and clasped
his hand, and cried over it.

George, tell me that you forgive me, before we
part for ever," she pleaded ; " pity me, dear ; pity
and pardon !"

Yes, I forgive you," he said, gently raising her
in his arms, and leading her to the sofa. " Yes,
child, I pity you. It is not your fault that we are
miserable. It may be better that we should part
thus. The future might be still darker for us if we
did not so part. Good-bye."

He bent over her as she sat in a drooping
attitude, with her forehead leaning against the end
of the sofa, her hand and arm hanging lax and
motionless at her side. He laid his hand upon
her head as if in blessing, and then left her without
another word.

*' The future might be still darker if we did
not part." She repeated the sentence slowly, pondering
it as if it had been an enigma.

Miss Fausset expressed herself pleased to

receive Miss Ransome as long as it might suit
Mildred's convenience to stay in Lewes Crescent.

Mr. Greswold has acted like a gentleman,"
she said, after Mildred had explained that it washer
husband's wish his niece should accompany her
abroad. ''He is altogether superior to the common
run of men. *This young lady belongs to the
Anglican Church, I conclude ?"

'' Decidedly."

Then she cannot fail to appreciate the services
at St. Edmund's," said Miss Fausset ; and thereupon
gave orders that the second-best spare room
should be made ready for Miss Ransome.

Pamela arrived before afternoon tea, bringing
Box, who was immediately relegated to the care of
the maids in the basement, and the information
that her uncle had gone back to Romsey via Portsmouth,
and was likely to arrive at Enderby sometime
before midnight. Pamela was somewhat embarrassed
for the first quarter of an hour, and
was evidently afraid of Miss Fausset ; but with
her usual adaptability she was soon at home in
that chilly and colourless drawing-room. She was

even reconciled to the banishment of Box, feeling'
that it was a privilege to have him anywhere in
that orderly mansion, and intending to get him
clandestinely introduced into her bedroom when the-household
retired for the night.

She pictured him as pining with grief in his
exile, and it would have disillusioned her could
she have seen him basking in the glow of the fire
in the housekeeper's room, snapping up pieces of
muffin thrown him by Franz, and beaming with
intelligence upon the company.

A larger tea-table than usual had been set out.
in the inner drawing-room, with two teapots, and a
tempting array of dainty biscuits and tea-cakes,
such as the idle mind loveth. It was Miss
Fausset's afternoon for receiving her friends, and
from four o'clock upwards carriages were heard to-draw
up below, and loquacious matrons with silent
daughters dribbled into the room and talked afternoon
tea-talk, chiefly matters connected with the
church of St. Edmund's and the various charities
and institutions associated with that edifice.

It seemed very slow, dull talk to the ears of"

Pamela, who had been Vitiated by sporting society
in which afternoon tea generally smelt of cartridges.
or pigskin, and where conversation was sometimes
enlivened by the handing round of a new gun, or a
patent rat-trap, for general inspection. She tried
to make talk with one of the youngest ladies present,
by asking her if she was fond of tennis : but she felt
herself snubbed when the damsel told her she had
one of the worst districts in Brighton, and no time
for amusements of any kind.

Everybody had taken tea, and it was nearly six:
o'clock when the feminine assembly became suddenly
fluttered and alert at the announcement of
two gentlemen of clerical aspect : one tall, bulky,
shabby, and clumsy-looking, with a large pallid
face, heavy features, heavier brows ; the other small
and dapper, dressed to perfection in a strictly clerical
fashion, with fair complexion and neat auburn
beard. The first was Mr. Maltravers, Vicar of
St. Edmund's ; the second was his curate, the
Honourable and Reverend Percival Cromer, fourth
son of Lord Lowestoft. It was considered a grand
thing for St. Edmund's that it had a man of

acknowledged power and eloquence for its vicar, and
a peer's son for its curate.

Mr. Cromer was at once absorbed by a voluble
matron who, with her three daughters, had lingered
in the hope of his dropping in after vespers ; but
he contrived somehow to release himself from tho
sirens, and to draw Miss Ransome into the conversation.
Miss Fausset in the meantime made
the Vicar known to Mildred.

You have often heard me speak of my niece, "
she said, when the introduction had been made.

Mildred was sitting apart from the rest, in 
of the inner room. She had withdrawn
herself there on pretence of wanting light for her
needlework, the same group of azaleas she had been
working upon at Enderby, but really in order to he
alone with her troubled thoughts ; and now Misa
Fausset approached her with the tall, ponderous-figure
of the priest, in his long threadbare coat.

She looked up, and found him scrutinising her
intently under his heavy brows. It was a clever
face that so looked at her, but it did not engage
her sympathy, or convince her of the owner's.

goodness, as Clement Canceller's face had always-done.


Yes, I have heard you speak of Mrs. Greswold,.
your only near relative, I think," he said, addressing
Miss Fausset, hut never taking his eyes oflT
Mildred.

He dropped into a chair near Mildred, and Miss-basset
went back to her duty at the tea-table, and.
to join in the conversation started by Mr. Cromer,
which had more animation than any previous talk
that afternoon.

*' You find your aunt looking well, I hope, Mrs-griswold
?" began the Vicar, not very brilliantly,
but what his speech wanted in meaning was made
up by the earnestness of his dark gray eyes, under
beetling brows, which seemed to penetrate Mildred's
inmost thoughts.

"Yes, she looks  as she has always done since
I can remember  like a person superior to all mortal
feebleness."

She is superior to all other women I have
ever met, a woman of truly remarkable power and
steadfastness ; but with natures like hers the sword.

is sometimes stronger than the scabbard. That
slender, upright form has an appearance of physical
delicacy, as well as natural refinement. Your aunt's
mind is a tower of strength, Mrs. Greswold. She
has been my strong rock from the beginning of my
ministry here ; but I tremble for the hour when her
health may break down under the task-work she
exacts from herself."

I know that she has a district, but I do not
know the details of her work," said Mildred. " Is
it very hard?"

'rit is very hard, and very continuous. She
labours unremittingly among the poor, and she does
a great deal of work of a wider and more comprehensive
kind. She is deaf to no appeal to her
charity. The most distant claims receive her
thoughtful attention, even where she does not feel
it within the boundary-line of her duty to give
substantial aid. She writes more letters than
many a private secretary ; and, Mrs. Greswold
to you as very near and dear to her  I may say
what I would say to no other creature living. It
has been my blessed office to be brought face to

face with her in the sacrament of confession. I
have seen the veil lifted from that white and spotless
soul ; spotless, yes, in a world of sinners ! I
know what a woman your aunt is."

His low searching tones fell distinctly upon
Mildred's ear, yet hardly rose above a whisper.
The babble, lay and clerical, went on in the other
drawing-room, and these two were as much alone
in the shadow of the window-curtains and the gray
light of the fading day as if they had been priest
and penitent in a confessional.

HIGHER VIEWS.

After that interview with her husband, which in
her own mind meant finality, Mildred Greswold's
strength succumbed suddenly, and for more than a
week she remained in a state of health for which
Miss Fausset's doctor could find no name more
specific than low fever. She was not very feverish,
he told her aunt. The pulse was rapid and intermittent,
but the temperature was not much above
the normal limit. She was very weak and low, and
she wanted care. He had evidently not quite made
up his mind whether she wanted rousing or letting
alone  whether he would recommend her to spend
the winter at Chamounix and do a little mountaineering,
or to vegetate at Nice or Algiers. "We
must watch her," he said gravely. *' She must not
be allowed to go into a decline."

Miss Fausset looked alarmed at this, but her

doctor, an acquaintance of fifteen years, assured her
that there was no cause for alarm ; there was only
need of care and watchfulness.

'' Her mother died at six-and-thirty," said Miss
Fausset  "faded away gradually, without any ostensible
disease. My brother did everything that care
and forethought could do, but he could not save her."

"Mrs. Greswold must not be allowed to fade
away," replied the doctor, with an air of being infallible.


Directly she was well enough to go down to the
drawing-room again, Mildred began to talk of starting
for Switzerland or Germany. She had inflicted
herself and her surroundings upon Lewes
Crescent too long already, she told her aunt ; and
although Miss Fausset expressed herself delighted
to have her niece, and reconciled even to Pamela's
frivolity and the existence of Box in the lower
regions, Mildred felt somehow that her presence
interfered with the even tenor of life in that orderly
mansion. The only person who made light of Miss
Fausset's idiosyncrasies, came to the house at all
hours, stayed as late as he chose, disturbed the

symmetry of the book-shelves, left Miss Fausset's
cherished books lying about on chairs and sofas,
and acted in all things after his own fancy, was
'Oesar Castellani. His manner towards Miss Fausset
"was unalterably deferential; he never wavered in
his respect for her as a superior being ; he was full
of subtle flatteries and delicate attentions ; yet in
somewise his ways were the ways of a spoiled child,
sure of indulgence and favour. He never stayed in
the house, but had his room at an hotel on the
cliff, and came to Lewes Crescent whenever fancy
prompted, for two or three days at a stretch, then
went back to London, and was seen no more for a
week or so.

Mildred found that Pamela and Mr. Castellani
lead seen a great deal of each other during her
illness. They had sung and played together, they
had walked on the cliff  in sight of the drawing-room
windows the whole time, Pamela explained,
and with Miss Fausset's severe eye upon them.
They had devoted themselves together to the education
of Box, who had learnt at least three new tricks
under their joint instruction, and who, possibly from

over-pressure, had acquired a habit of trying to bite
Mr. Castellani whenever he had an opportunity.

'rit is because he is such a horribly unmusical
dog," explained Pamela. *' He managed to creep upto
the drawing-room the other day when Miss Fausset
was at church, and Mr. Castellani came in and began
to play, and that dreadful Box planted himself near
the piano and howled piteously till I carried him
out."

** My dearest Pamela, I don't think Box's opinion
of Mr. Castellani or his music matters much,"
said Mildred, with gentle gravity, as she lay on the
sofa in the back drawing-room, with Pamela's hand
clasped in hers; "but it matters a great deal what
you think of him, and I fear you are beginning ta
think too much about him."

Why should I not think of him, aunt, if I
like  and he likes ? I am my own mistress ; there
are few girls so independent of allies ; for really
nobody cares a straw for me except you and Uncle
George. Rosalind is wrapped up in her baby, and
Henry is devoted to pigeons, guns, and fishing-tackle.
Do you think it can matter to them whom I marry ?

VOL. II. L

Why should I be sordid, and say to myself, ' I have
fifteen hundred a year, and I mustn't marry a man
with less than three thousand ' ? Why should I not
marry genius if I like  genius even without a
penny ?"

*'If you could meet with genius, Pamela."
You think that Mr. Castellani is not a genius ?"
I think not. He is too versatile and too
showy. All his gifts are on the surface. Genius
is single-minded, aiming at one great thing. Genius
is like still water and runs deep. I admit that
Mr. Castellani is highly gifted as a musician of the
lighter sort ; not a man who will leave music behind
him to live for ever I admit that he has written a
strangely attractive book. But I should be sorry to
call him a genius. I should be very sorry to see
you throw yourself away, as I believe you would if
you were to marry him."

That is what a girl's friends always say to her,"
exclaimed Pamela. " To marry the man one loves ito
throw oneself away." And then blushing furiously,
she added, 'pray don't suppose that I am in love
with Mr. Castellani. There has never been one

word of love between us  except in the clouds, by
wayof philosophical discussion. But, as a fatherless
and motherless girl of advanced opinions, I claim
the right to marry genius, if I choose."

*' My dear girl, I cannot dispute your independence;
but I think the sooner we leave this
house the better. The first thing is to make up our
minds where we are to go."

I don't care a bit, aunt ; only you must not
leave Brighton till you are much stronger. You
will want at least three weeks before you will be able
to stand the fatigue of travelling," said Pamela,
surveying the invalid with a critical air.

We can travel by easy stages. I am not
afraid of fatigue. Where shall we go, Pamela 
Schwalbach, Wiesbaden, Yevay, Montreux ?"

0, not Schwalbach, aunt. They took me therefor
iron five years ago, when I had outgrown my
strength. Switzerland is always lovely, of course ;
but I went there with Rosalind after her baby was
born, and endured the dreariest six weeks of my
existence. Brighton is absolutely delicious at this
time of the year. It would be absurd to rush away

from the place just when people are beginning to
come here."

Mildred saw that the case was hopeless, and she-began
to think seriously about her responsibilities
in this matter : a frank impetuous girl, her husband's
niece, eager to cast in her lot with a man who was'
obviously an adventurer, living sumptuously with
hardly any obvious means, and who might be a*
scoundrel. She remembered her impression of the
face in the church, the Judas face, as she had called it
in her own mind : a foolish impression, perhaps, and
it might be baseless ; yet such first impressions are
sometimes warnings not to be lightly set at naught.
As yet nothing had come of that warning : no act of
Castellani's had shown him a villain ; but his advent
had begun the misery of her life. Had she never seen
him she never might have known this great sorrow.
His presence was a constant source of irritation,,
tempting her to questioning that might lead to
further misery. Fay's image had been constantly
in her mind of late. She had brooded over that
wedded life of which she knew nothing  over that
early death which for her was shrouded in mystery.

*' And lie could tell me so much, perhaps," she
said to herself one evening, sitting by the fire in the
inner room, while Castellani played in the distance
yonder between the tall windows that let in the
.pray eastern light.

Her death was infinitely sad."

Those were the words which he had spoken of
George Greswold's first wife : of Fay, her Fay, the
one warm love of her childish years, the love that
had stayed with her so long after its object had
vanished from her life. That there was something
underlying those words, some secret which might
add a new bitterness to her sorrow, was the doubt
that tortured Mildred as she sat and brooded by there,
while those lovely strains of Mendelssohn*'
I waited for the Lord " rose in slow solemnity from
the distant piano, breathing sounds of peacefulness
where there was no peace.

Mr. Castellani had behaved admirably since her
convalescence. He had asked no questions about
iter husband, had taken her presence and Pamela's
for granted, never hinting a curiosity about this
sudden change of quarters. Mildred thought that

her aunt had told him something about her separation
from her husband. It was hardly possible that
she could have withheld all information, seeing the
familiar terms upon which those two were ; and it
might be, therefore, that his discretion was the
result of knowledge. He had nothing to learn, and
could easily seem incurious.

Mildred now discovered that one source of Castellani's
influence with her aunt was the work he
had done for the choir of St. Edmund's. It was to
his exertions that the choral services owed their
excellence. The Vicar loved music only as a child
or a savage loves it, without knowledge or capacity ;
and it was Castellani who chose the voices for the
choir, and helped to train the singers. It was Castellani
who assisted the organist in the selection of
recondite music, which gave an air of originality to
the services at St. Edmund's, and brought the odour
of medisevalism and the fumes of incense into the
Gothic chancel. Castellani's knowledge of music,
ancient and modern, was of the widest. It was his
musical erudition which gave variety to his improvisations.
He could delight an admiring circle with

meandering reminiscences of Fully, Corelli, Dassek,
Spobr, Clement, Cherubini, and Hummel, in which
only the modulations were his own.

In this interval of convalescence Mrs. Greswold's
life fell into a mechanical monotony which suited her
as well as any other kind of life would have done.
For the greater part of the day she sat in the low
armchair by the fire, a table with books at her side,
and her work-basket at her feet. Those who cared
to observe her saw that she neither worked nor
read. She took up a volume now and again, opened
it, looked at a page with dreamy eyes for a little
while, and then laid it aside. She took up the
frame with the azaleas, worked half-a-dozen stitches,
and put the frame down again. Her days were
given to long and melancholy reveries. She lived
over her married life, with all its happiness, with its
sone great pain. She contemplated her husband's
character  such a perfect character it had always
seemed to her ; and yet his one weak act, his one
suppression of truth, had wrought misery for them
both. And then with ever recurring persistency she
thought of Fay, and Fay's unexplained fate.

*'I know bim so well, his wife of fourteen years,"
she said to herself. " Can I doubt for an instant
that he did his duty to her ; that he was loyal and
kind ; that whatever sadness there was in her fate
it could have been brought about by no act of his ?"

Pamela behaved admirably all this time. She
respected Mildred's silence, and was not overpoweringly
gay. She would sit at her aunt's feet working,
wrapped in her own thoughts, or poring over a well-thumped
Shelley, which seemed to her to express all
her emotions for her without any trouble on her part.
She found her feelings about Cesar Castellani made
to measure, as it were, in those mystic pages, and
wondered that she and Shelley could be so exactly
alike.

When Mildred was well enough to go out of
doors Miss Fausset suggested a morning with her
poor.

"It will brace your nerves," she said, " and help
sou to make up your mind. If you have really a
vocation for the higher life, the life of self-abnegation
and wide usefulness, the sooner you enter upon
it the better. Mind, I say if. You know I have

given YOU my advice conscientiously as a Christian
woman, and my advice is that you go back to your
husband, and forget everything but your duty to
him."

'' Yes, aunt, I know ; but you and I think differently
upon that point."

"Very well," with an impatient sigh. 'you
are obstinate enough there : you have made up your
mind so far. You had better make it up a little
further. At present you are halting between two
opinions."

Mildred obeyed with meekness and indifference.
She was not interested in Miss Fausset's district ;
she had given no thought yet to the merits of life ina
Christian community, among a handful of pious
women working diligently for the suffering masses.
Her only thought had been of that which she had
lost, not of what she might gain.

Miss Fausset came in from the morning service
at half-past eight, breakfasted sparingly, and at nine
the ne plus ultra brougham, the perfection of severity
in coach-building, was at the door, and the perfect
brown horse was champing his bit and rattling his

THE FATAL THREE,

brazen headgear in over-fed impatience to be off. It
seemed to be the one aim of this powerful creature's
life to run away with Miss Fausset's brougham, but
sup to this point his driver had circumvented him.
He made very light of the distance between the
aristocratic East Cliff and the shabbiest outlying
district of Brighton, at the fag end of the London
Road, and here Mildred saw her aunt in active work
as a ministering angel to the sick and the wretched.
It was only the old, old story of human misery
which she saw repeated under various forms ; the
old, old evidence of the unequal lots that fall from
the urn of Fate  Margaret in her sky-blue boudoir,
Peggy staggering under her basket of roses  for
some only the flowers, for others only the thorns.
She saw that changeless background of sordid
poverty which makes every other sorrow harder to
bear ; and she told herself that the troubles of the
poor were heavier than the troubles of the rich.
Upon her life sorrow had come, like a thunderbolt
out of a summer sky ; but sorrow was the warp and
woof of these lives ; joy or good luck of any kind
would have been the thunderclap.

She saw that her aunt knew how to deal with
these people, and that underneath Miss Fausset's
hardness there was a great power of sympathy.
Her presence seemed everywhere welcome ; and
people talked freely to her, unbosoming themselves
of every trouble, confident in her power to understand.


*' Me and my poor husband calls your aunt our
father confessor, ma'am," said a consumptive tailor's
wife to Mildred. "We're never afraid to tell her
anything  even if it seems foolish like  and she
always gives us rare good advice  don't she, Joe?"

The invalid nodded approvingly over his basin of
beef-tea, Miss Fausset's beef-tea, which was as comforting
as strong wine.

In one of the houses they found an Anglican
Sister, an elderly woman, in a black hood, to whom
Miss Fausset introduced her niece. There was an
old man dying by inches in the next room ; and the
Sister had been sitting up with him all night, and
was now going home to the performance of other
duties. Mildred talked with her for some time
about her life, and heard a great many details of

that existence which seemed to her still so far off,
almost impossible, like a cold pale life beyond the
grave. How different from that warm domestic life
at Enderby ! amidst fairest surroundings, in those
fine old rooms, where every detail bore the impress
of one's own fancy, one's own pursuits : a selfish life,
perhaps, albeit tempered with beneficence to one's
immediate surroundings ; selfish inasmuch as it was
happy and luxurious, while true unselfishness must
needs surrender everything, must refuse to wear
.purple and fine linen and to fare sumptuously, so
long as Lazarus lies at the gate shivering and
hungry.

Her aunt almost echoed her thoughts presently
when she spoke of her goodness to the poor.

'eyes, yes, Mildred, I do some little good," she
said, almost impatiently; "but not enough  not
nearly enough. It is only women like that Sister
who do enough. What the rich give must count for
very little in the eyes of the Great Auditor. But I
do my best to make up for a wasted girlhood. I
was as foolish and as frivolous as your young friend
Pamela once'*

That reminds me, aunt, I want so much to
talk to you about Pamela."

"What of her?"

"I am afraid that she admires Mr. Castellani."


"Why should she not admire him ?"

But I suspect she is in danger of falling in
love with him."

"Let her fall in love with him  let her marry
him  let her be happy with him if she can."

There was a recklessness in this counsel which
shocked Mildred, coming from such a person as Miss-basset.


My dear aunt, it is a very serious matter.
George gave Pamela to me for my companion. I
feel myself responsible for her happiness."

Then don't interfere with her happiness. Let
her marry the man she loves."

With all my heart, if he were a good man, and
if her uncle had no objection. But I know so little
about Mr. Castellani and his surroundings."

"He has no surroundings  his mother and
father are dead. He has no near relatives."

"And his character, aunt; his conduct? What
do you know of those ?"

' Only so much as you can see that I know of
them. He comes to my house, and makes himself
agreeable to me and my friends. He has given
valuable help in the formation and management of
the choir. If I am interested in a concert for a
charity he sings for me, and works for me like a
slave. All his talents are at my service always.
I suppose I like him as well as I should like a
favourite nephew, if I had nephews from whom to
choose a favourite. Of his character  outside my
house  I know nothing. I do not believe he has a
wife hidden away anywhere ; and if Pamela marries
him, she can make her intention public in good time
to prevent any fiasco of that kind."

You speak very scornfully, aunt, as if you had
a poor opinion of Mr. Castellani."

"Perhaps I have a poor opinion of mankind in
general, Mildred. Your father was a good man, and
your husband is another. We ought to think ourselves
lucky to have known two such men in our
lives. As to Cesar Castellani, I tell you again I

know no more of him than you  or very little more
though I have known him so much longer."

How long have you known him ?"

"About fifteen years."

And how was he introduced to you ?"

''0, he introduced himself, on the strength of
the old connection between the Faussets and the
Flies. It was just before he went to the University.
He was very handsome, very elegant, and.
very much in advance of his years in manners and
accomplishments. He amused and interested me,
and I allowed him to come to my house as often ashe
liked."

"Do you know anything about his means ?"

Nothing definite. He came into a small fortune
upon his mother's death, and ran through it. He
has earned money by literary work, but I cannot tell
you to what extent. If Miss Ransome marry him,
I think she may as well make up her mind to keep
him. He belongs to the butterfly species."

That is rather a humiliating prospect for a
wife  rather like buying a husband."

That is a point for Miss Ransome to consider.

I don't think she is the kind of girl to care much
what her whim costs her."

The brown horse, panting for more work, drew
up in front of Miss Fausset's house at this juncture,
fidgeted impatiently while the two ladies alighted,
and then tore round to his mews.

You've had a handful with him to-day, I guess,,
mate," said a humble hanger-on, as Miss Fausset's
coachman stretched his aching arms. *'He's a fine
'loss, but I'd rather you drove 'im than me."

I'll tell you what he is," replied the coachman r
'' he's too good for his work. That's his complaint.
Dodging in and out of narrer streets, and making'
morning' calls upon workhouse paupers, don't suit
kim."

The time had come when Mildred had to makeup
her mind where she would go, and having all the
world to choose from, and just the same hopeless
feeling that Eve may have had on leaving Eden, the
choice was a matter of no small difficulty. She
sat with a Continental " Bradshaw " in her hand,
turning the leaves and looking at the maps, irresolute

and miserable. Pamela, who might have
decided for her, clearly hankered after no paradise
but Brighton. Her idea of Eden was a house in
which Castellani was a frequent visitor.

It was too late for most of the summer places,
too early for Algiers or the Riviera. Pamela would
not hear of the Rhine or any German watering-place.
Montreux might do, perhaps, or the Engadine
; but Pamela hated Switzerland.

*' Would it not do to spend the winter in Bath?"
she said. " There is very nice society in Bath, I
am told."

My dear Pamela, I want to get away from
society if I can; and I want to be very far from
Enderby."

Of course. It was thoughtless of me to suggest
a society place. Bath, too, within a stone's throw.
Dearest aunt, I will offer no more suggestions. I
will go anywhere you like."

"Then let us decide at once. We will go to
Pallanza, on Ago Maggiore. I have heard that it
is a lovely spot, and later we can go on to Milan or
Florence."

VOL. II. M

To Italy ! That is like the fulfilment of a
dream," said Pamela with a sigh, feeling that Italy
without Cesar Castellani would be like a playhouse
when the curtain has gone down and all the lights
are out.

She was resigned, however, and not without hope.
Castellani might propose before they left Brighton,
when he found that parting was inevitable. He had
said some very tender things, but of that vaguely
tender strain which leaves a man uncommitted. His
words had been full of poetry, but they might have
applied to some absent mistress, or to love in the
abstract. Pamela felt that she had no ground for
exultation.

It was in vain that Mildred warned her against
the danger of such an alliance.

'* Consider what a wretched match it would befor
you, Pamela," she said. " Think how different
from your sister Kosalind's marriage."

"Different! I should hope so, indeed! Can
you imagine, Aunt Mildred, that I would marry
such a man as Sir Henry Montfort, a man who has
hardly a thought outside his stable and his gun-room

? Do you know that he spends quite a quarter
of every day in the saddle-room, allowing for the
wet days, on which he almost lives there ? I asked
him once why he didn't have his lunch sent over to
the stables, instead of keeping us waiting a quarter
of an hour, and coming in at last smelling like a
saddler's shop."

He is a gentleman, notwithstanding, Pamela
and Rosalind seems to get on very well with him."

-As the husband is the wife is,' don't you know,
aunt. You and Uncle George suit each other
because you are both intellectual. I should be
miserable if I married a man who had done nothing
to distinguish himself from the common herd."

*' Perhaps. But do you think you could be very
happy married to an accomplished idler who would
live upon your fortune  who would have everything
to gain, from the most sordid point of view, by
marrying you, and of whose fidelity you could never
be sure ?"

"But I should be sure of him. My instinct
would tell me if he were really in love with me.
You must think me very silly, Aunt Mildred, if you

think I could be deceived in such a matter as
that."

In spite of Pamela's confidence in her own instinct,
or, in other words, in her own wisdom,
Mildred was full of anxiety about her, and was very
eager to place her charge beyond the reach of Cesar
Castellani's daily visits and musical talent. She felt
responsible to her husband for his niece's peace of
mind ; doubly responsible in that Pamela's interest
had been subordinated to her own comfort and wellbeing.


She had other reasons for wishing to escape
from Mr. Castellani's society. That instinctive aversion
she had felt at sight of the unknown face in the
church was not altogether a sentiment of the pasta
prejudice overcome and forgotten. There were
occasions when she shrank from the Italian's gentle
touch, a delicate white hand hovering for a moment
above her own as he offered her a book or a newspaper
; there were times when his low sympathetic
voice was a horror to her ; there were times when
she told herself that her self-respect as a wife hardly

permitted of her breathing the same air that he
breathed.

Innocent and simple-minded as her closely-sheltered
life had kept her, in all thoughts, ways,
and works unlike the average woman of society,
Mildred Greswold was a woman, and she could net
but see that Cesar Castellani's feelings for her were
of a deeper kind than any sentiment with which
Pamela Ransome's charms had inspired him. There
were moments when his voice, his face, his manner
told his secret only too plainly; but these were but
glimpses of the truth, hurried listings of the curtain,
which the man of society let drop again before he
had too plainly betrayed himself. He had be.n
careful to keep his secret from Pamela. It was
only to the object of his worship that he had revealed
those presumptuous dreams of his, and to her
only in such wise as she must needs ignore. It
would have seemed self-conscious prudery to rebuke
indications so subtle and so casual ; but Mildred
could not ignore them in her own mind, and she
waited anxiously for the hour in which she would
be well enough to travel. She had all her plans

made, had engaged a courier  a friend of Miss
Fausset's Franz  and had arranged her route with
him : first Northern Italy, and then the South. She
wanted to make Pamela's exile as bright and as
profitable to her as she could. The life she was
arranging was by no means the kind of life that
Clement Cancellor would have counselled. It would
have seemed to that stern labourer a life of self-indulgence
and frivolity. But the time for the
higher ideal would come by and by, perhaps, when
this sense of misery, this benumbed feeling of indifference
to all things, had worn ofi", and she should
be strong enough to think a little more about other
people's sorrows and a little less about her own.

Mr. Maltravers urged upon her the duty of
staying in Brighton, and working as her aunt worked.
He had been told that Mrs. Greswold was a woman
of independent fortune, and that she had separated
herself from a husband she fondly loved, upon a
question of principle. It was just such a woman as
this that Samuel Maltravers liked to see in his
church. Such women were the elect of the earth,
predestined to contribute to the advancement of

clerics and the building of chancels and transepts.
The chancel at St. Edmund's was a noble one.
needing no extension, its only fault being that it
was too big for the church. But there was room fora
transept. The church had been so planned as to
allow of its ultimate cruciform shape, and that
transept was the dream of Mr. Maltravers' life.
Scarcely had Mrs. Greswold's story dropped in
measured syllables from Miss Fausset's lips than
Mr. Maltravers said to himself, " This lady will
build my transept." A woman who could leave a
beloved husband on a question of principle was just
the kind of woman to sink a few superfluous thousands
upon the improvement of such a fane as St.
Edmund's. Every seat in that fashionable temple
was occupied. More seat-room was a necessity.
The hour had come, and the  woman.

Mr. Maltravers endeavoured to convince Mrs.
Greswold that Brighton was the one most fitting
sphere for an enlightened woman's labours. Brighton
cried aloud for a Christian sister's aid. It had all
the elements in which the heaven-born missionary
delights. Phenomenal wealth on the one side, abject

poverty on the other; fashion in the foreground,
sin and misery behind the curtain. Brighton was
Pagan Rome in little. Together with the advanced
civilisation, the over-refinement, the occult
pleasures, the art, the luxury, the beauty, the burning
of the Seven-hilled City, Brighton had all the
corrupting influences of her Pagan sister. Brighton
was rotten to the core  a lovely simulacrum  a
Dead Sea apple  shining, golden, doomed, damned.

As he uttered that last terrific word Mr. Mal-travers
sank his voice to that bass depth some of us
can remember in Bishop Wilberforce's climatic syllables
; and so spoken, the word seemed permissible
in any serious drawing-room, awful rather than profane.


It was in vain, however, that the Vicar of St.
Edmund's strove to convince Mildred that her
mission was immediate, and in Brighton ; that in
his parish, and there alone, could her loftiest dreams
find their fulfilment.

"I hope to do some little good to my fellow-creatures
by and by," she said meekly, "but I do
not feel that the time has come yet. I am incapable

of anything except just existing. I believe my
aunt has told you that I have had a great sorrow  "
Yes, yes, poor wounded heart, I know, I know."
"I mean to work by and bye  when I have
learned to forget myself a little. Sorrow is so
selfish. Just now I feel stupid and helpless. I
could do no good to any one."

*you could build my transept," thought Mr.
Maltravers, but he only sighed, and shook his head,
and murmured gently, " Well, well, we must wait;
we must hope. There is but one earthly consolation
for a great grief  I will say nothing of heavenly
comfort  and that consolation is to be found in
labouring for the good of our sinning, sorrowing
fellow-creatures, and for the glory of God  for the
glory of God," repeated Mr. Maltravers, harping on
his transept. *' There are mourners who have left
imperishable monuments of their grief, and of their
piety, in some of the finest churches of this land."

Upon the evening on which Mr. Maltravers had
pleaded for Brighton, Miss Fausset and her integer
were alone together during the half-hour before

dinner; the lady resting after a long day in her
district : a composed, quiet figure, in fawn-coloured
silk gown and point lace kerchief, seated erect in
the high-backed chair, with folded hands, and eyes
gazing thoughtfully at the fire ; the gentleman lounging
in a low chair on the other side of the hearth
in luxurious self-abandonment, his red-brown eyes
shining in the fire-glow, and his red-brown hair
throwing off glints of light.

They had been talking, and had lapsed into
silence; and it was after a long pause that Miss
Fausset said,

"I wonder you have not made the young lady an
offer before now."

** Suppose I am not in love with the young lady ?"

You have been too assiduous for that supposition
to occur to me. You have haunted this house
ever since Miss Ransome has been here."

"And yet I am not in love with her."

She is a pretty and attractive girl, and disposed
to think highly of you."

"And yet I am not in love with her," he repeated,
with a smile which made Miss Fausset angry. " To

think that you should turn matchmaker, you who
have said so many bitter things of the fools who fall in
love, and the still greater fools who marry; you who
stand alone like a granite monolith, like Cleopatra's
Needle, or the Patterson, or anything grand and
solitary and unapproachable; you to counsel the
civilised slavery we call marriage !"

My dear Cesar, I can afford to stand alone ;
but you cannot afford to surrender your chance of
winning an amiable wife with fifteen hundred a year."

That for fifteen hundred a year !" exclaimed
Castellani, wafting an imaginary fortune from the
tips of his fingers with airy insolence. *'Do you
think I Avill sell myself  for so little ?"

That high-flown tone is all very well; but there
is one fact you seem to ignore."

What is that, my kindest and best?"

The fact that you are a very expensive person,
and that you have to be maintained somehow"'

That fact shall never force me to marry where
I cannot love. At the worst, art shall maintain me.
When other and dearer friends prove unkind, I will
call upon my maiden aunts the Muses."

"The Muses hitherto have hardly paid for the
gardenias in your buttonhole."

"0, I know I am not a man of business. I
lack the faculty of pounds, shillings, and pence,
which is an attribute of some minds. I have scattered
my flowers of art upon all the highways instead
of nailing the blossoms against a wall and waiting
for them to bear fruit. I have been reckless, improvident
 granted ; and you, out of your abundance,
have been kind. Your words imply a threat. You
wish to remind me that your kindness cannot go on
for ever."

There are limits to everything."

Hardly to your generosity ; certainly not to
your wealth. As you garner it, that must be inexhaustible.
I cannot think that you would ever turn
your back upon me. The link between us is too
tender a bond."

Miss Fausset's face darkened to deepest night.

*' Tender do you call it?" she exclaimed. "If
the memory of an unpardonable wrong is tender  "
and then, interrupting herself, she cried passionately,
Cesar Castellani, I have warned you against the

slightest reference to the past. As for my generosity,
as you call it, you might be wiser if you
gave it a lower name  caprice ; caprice which may
weary at any moment. You have a chance of making
an excellent match, and I strongly advise you to
take advantage of it."

'forgive me if I disregard your advice, much
as I respect your judgment upon all other subjects."

"You have other views, I suppose, then?"

Yes, I have other views."

You look higher ?"

"Infinitely higher," he answered, with his hands
locked above his head in a carelessly graceful attitude,
and with his eyes gazing at the fire.

He looked like a dreaming fawn : the large, full
eyes, the small peaked beard, and close-cut hair
upon the arched forehead were all suggestive of the
satyr tribe.

The door opened, and Pamela came smiling in,
self-conscious, yet happy, delighted at seeing that
picturesque figure by the hearth.

THE TIME HAS COME.

Three days later Mildred and her young companion
started for Italy. The doctor declared that the
departure was premature  Mrs. Greswold was not
strong enough to undertake such a fatiguing journey.
But modern civilisation has smoothed the roads that
lead over the civilised world, and for a lady who
travels with a maid and a courier, journeys are
rendered very easy ; besides, Mildred had made up
her mind to leave Brighton at any hazard.

The hour of parting came for Pamela and Castellani,
and although the young lady took care to
remind him at least a dozen times a day of that
impending severance, not one word of the future, or
of any cherished hope on his part, fell from his lips.
And yet it had seemed to Pamela that he was devoted
to her, that he only waited for the opportunity to
speak. It seemed to her also that he felt the pain

of parting, for he had an air of deepest melancholy
during these farewell days, and talked only of saddest
themes. Ho was in Lewes Crescent nearly all day
long  he played the mournfully strains  he behaved
like a man oppressed with a secret sorrow ;
but never a word of love or marriage did he breathe
to Pamela. He pressed her hand gently, with an
almost paternal affection, as she leant out of the
carriage which was to take her to the station, and
bade him a last good-bye.

Good-bye !" she half sang, half sobbed, in the
darkness at the back of the hired landau, as they
drove bumping down St. James's street. " Good-bye,
summer ; good-bye, everything !"

She did not even glance at Harrington's autumn
fashions as they drove up the hill. She felt that life
was no longer worth dressing for.

"He never could have cared for me," she
thought, as she dropped her silent tears upon
Box's thoroughbred neck, " and yet he seemed  he
seemed ! Does he seem like that to every girl, I
wonder ? Is he all seeming?"

After this came a leisurely journey, and then

long, slow weeks of a luxurious repose amidst fairest
surroundings  a life which to those who have lived
and fought the great battle, and come wounded hut
yet alive out of the fray, is the life paradisaic ; hut
for the fresh, strong soul panting for emotions
and excitements, like a young bird that yearns to
try the strength of his wings, this kind of languid
existence seems like a foretaste of death and nothingness.
Mountains and lakes were not enough for
Pamela  the azure of an Italian sky, the infinite
variety of sunset splendours, the brightness of a
morning heralded by a roseate flush on snow-capped
hills  all these were futile where the heart was
empty. Mildred's maturer grief found some consolation
in these exquisite surroundings ; but Pamela
wanted to live, and those encircling mountains
seemed to her as the walls of a gigantic prison.

It was so nice at Brighton," she said, looking
along the burnished mirror of the lake with despondent
eyes, tired of the mystery of those reflected
mountains, descending into infinite depths, a world
inverted : "so gay, so cheery  always something

going on. Don't you think, aunt, that the air of
this place is very relaxing ?"

That word relaxing is the keynote of discontent.
It is a word that can blight the loveliest spots the
sun ever shone upon. It is the speck upon the peach.
Be sure that before ever he mentioned the apple,
Satan told Eve that Eden was very relaxing.

I hope you are not unhappy here, my dear
Pamela?" said Mildred, evading the question.

Unhappy ? 0, no, indeed, dear aunt ! I could not
be otherwise than happy with you anywhere. There
are lots of people who would envy me living on the
shore of Ago Maggiore, and seeing those delightful
mountains all day long ; but I did so enjoy Brighton
 the theatre, the Pavilion: always something
going on."

The two ladies had their own suite of apartments
in the hotel, and lived in that genteel seclusion
which is the privilege of wealth as well as of rank
all over the world. Pamela envied the tourists of
Cook and Gaze, as she saw them trooping into the
table d'hote, or heard their clatter in the public
drawing-room. It was all very well to sit in one's

VOL. II. N

own balcony, gazing at the placid lake, while the
rabble amused themselves below. One felt one's
superior status, and the advantage of being somebody
instead of nobody ; but when the rabble danced or
acted charades, or played dumb crambo, or squabbled
over a game at nap, they seemed to have the best of
it somehow.

I almost wish I had been born a vulgarian,"
sighed Pamela one evening, when the tourists were
revolving to the "Myosotis Waltz " banged out on
a cast-iron grand in the salon below.

Mildred did all she could in the way of excursion-rising
to enliven the dulness of their solitary life;
but the beauties of Nature palled upon Pamela's lively
mind. However the day might be occupied in drives
to distant scenes of surpassing loveliness, the strengthening
evenings had to be spent in the Louis
Quatorze salon, where no visitors dropped in to
disturb the monotony of books and work, piano and
pet-dog.

For Mildred, too, those evening hours seemed
unutterably long, and as autumn deepened into
winter, her burden seemed heavier to bear. Time

brought no consolation, offered no hope. She had
lost all that had made life worth living. First, the
child who represented all that was brightest and
fairest and gayest and most hopeful in her life ;
next, the husband who was her life itself, the prop
and staff, the column around which every tendril of
her being was entwined. There was nothing for her
in the future but a life of self-abnegation, of working
and living for others. The prospect seemed dark
and dreary, and she knew now how small a margin
of her life had been devoted to God. The idea of
devoting herself wholly was too repellent. She knew
now that she was very human, wedded to earthly
loves and earthly happiness, needing a long purgation
before she could attain the saintly attitude.

She thought of Enderby every night as she satin
silent melancholy beside the hearth, where a
solitary log crumbled slowly to white ashes on
the marble, and where the faint warmth had a
perfume of distant pine-woods; she thought of
Enderby and its widowed master. "Was he living
there still, or was he, too, a wanderer ? She had
heard but little of his movements since she left

England. Pamela had written to him, and he had
replied, hut had said very little about himself.
The only news in Rosalind's letters was of the extraordinary
development  intellectual and otherwise 
of the baby, and the magnitude of Sir Henry's bag.
Beyond the baby and the bag, Lady Montfort's
pen rarely travelled.

Mildred thought of that absent husband with
an aching heart. There were times when she asked
herself if she had done well  when she was tempted
to total surrender  when the pen was in her hand
ready to write a telegram imploring him to come
to her  or when she was on the point of giving her
orders for an immediate return to England. But
pride and principle alike restrained her. She had
taken her own course, she had made up her mind
deliberately, after long thought and many prayers.
She could not tread the backward way, the primrose
path of sin. She could but pray for greater strength,
for loftier purpose, for that grand power of self-forgetfulness
which makes for heaven.

Christmas came and found her in this frame
of mind. There were very few tourists now, and

the long corridors had a sepulchral air, the snowy
mountain tops were blotted out by mist and rain.
For Pamela, Christmastide had been a season of much
gaiety hitherto  a season of new frocks and many
dances, hunting and hunt-balls, and the change
was a severe test of that young lady's temper. She
came through the ordeal admirably, never forgot that
she had promised her uncle to be his wife's faithful
companion, and amused herself as best she could
with Italian music and desultory studies. She read
Mr. Sinner's books, studied John's edition of
Plato's Dialogues, addled her youthful brain with
various theories of a far-reaching kind, and fancied
herself decidedly mediumistic. That word medium-isti
possessed a peculiar fascination for her. She
had looked at Cesar Castellani's eyeballs, which
were markedly globular  seeming, as it were,
reflecting surfaces for the spirit world, a sure indication
of the mediumistic temperament. She had
seen other signs ; and now in this romantic solitude,
sauntering by the lake in the misty winter air, just
before sundown, she fancied herself almost in communion
with that absent genius. Distance could

not separate two people when both were eminently
mediumistic.

"I believe he is thinking of me at this very
moment," she said to herself one afternoon at the
end of the year, *' and I have a kind of feeling that
I shall see him  bodily  very soon."

She forgot to reckon with herself that this kind
of feeling could count for very little, since she had
experienced it in greater or less degree ever since
she had left Brighton. In almost every excursion she
had beguiled the tedium of the way with some pleasant
day-dream. Castellani would appear in the
most unlooked-for manner at the resting-place where
they were to lunch. He would have followed them
from England at his leisure, and would come upon
them unannounced, pleased to startle her by his
sudden apparition. In absence she had recalled so
many tender speeches, so many indications of regard ;
and she had taught herself to believe that he really
cared for her, and had but been withheld from a
declaration by a noble dignity which would not stoop
to woo a woman richer than himself.

'' He is poor and proud," she thought.

Poor and proud. How sweet the alliteration
sounded !

She had thought of him so incessantly that it
was hardly a coincidence, and yet it seemed to her a
miracle when his voice sounded behind her in the
midst of her reverie.

You ought not to be out of doors, Miss Ransome,
when the sun is so nearly down."

She turned and faced him, pale first with infinite
pleasure, and then rosy to the roots of her
flaxen hair.

When did you come ?'' she asked eagerly.
Have you been long in Italy ?"

I only came through the St. Goddard last
night, breakfasted at Locarno, and came here by
road. I have not seen Mrs. Greswold yet. She is
well, I hope ?"

She is not over-well. She frets dreadfully, I
am afraid. It is so sad that she and Uncle George
should be living apart for some mysterious reason
which nobody knows. They were the most perfect
couple."

"Mrs. Greswold is a perfect woman."

'rand Uncle George has the finest character.
His first marriage was unhappy, I believe ; nobody
ever talked about it. I think it was only just
known in the family that he had married in Italy
when he was a young man, and that his wife had
died within a year. It was supposed that she could
not have been nice, since nobody knew anything
about her."

' Bather hard upon the dead lady to be condemned
by her husband's silence. Will you take me to your
aunt?"

With pleasure. I think she ought to be
charmed to see you, for we lead the most solitary
existence here. My aunt has set her face against
knowing anybody, in the hotel or out of it. And there
have been some really charming people staying
here ; people one would go out of one's way to know.
Have you come here for your health ?"

For my pleasure only. I was sick to death of
England and of cities. I longed to steep myself in
the infinite and the beautiful. Those indigo clouds
above the mountains yonder  with that bold splash
of orange shining through the gorge  are worth the

journey, were there no more than that ; and when the
wintry stars glass themselves in the lake by and by,
ah ! then one knows what it is to be the living, acting
element in a world of passive beauty. And to think
that there are men and women in London groping
about in the fog, and fancying themselves alive !"

"0, but there are compensations  theatres,
concerts, dances."

Miss Ransome, I fear you are a Philistine."
0, no, no ! I adore Nature. I should like to
b3 above those common earthly pleasures  to journey
from star to star along the planetary chain,
rising at each transition to a higher level, until I
cane to the spirit world where  This is the
ho-sel, and we are on the second floor. Would you
like the lift ?"

'' I never walk when I can be carried."
* Then we will go up in the lift. I used to think
it rafter good fun at first," said Pamela with a sigh,
remembering how soon that trivial excitement had
begun to pall.

Mildred received the unexpected visitor with
marked coldness ; but it was not easy to remain

persistently cold while Pamela was so warm. Castellani
was one of those provoking people who refuse
to see when they are unwelcome. He was full of
talk, gay, bright, and varied. He had all the social
events of the past three months to talk about.
Society had witnessed the most extraordinary
changes  marriages  sudden deaths  everything
unlooked for. There had been scandals, too ; but
these he touched upon lightly, and with a deprecating
air, professing himself sorry for everybody.


Mildred allowed him to talk, and was, perhaps,
a little more cordial when he took his leave thar
she had been when he came. He had prevented
her from thinking her own thoughts for the space
of an hour, and that was something for which to le
grateful. He had come there in pursuit of Pamela,
no doubt. He could have no other reason. He lad
been playing his own game, holding back in order to
be the more gladly accepted when he should declare
himself. It was thus Mildred reasoned with herself
; and yet there had been looks and tones which
it was difficult for her to forget.

"He is by profession a lady-killer," she argued;
no doubt he treats all women in the same way. He
cannot help trying to fascinate them ; and there are
women like Cecilia Tomkison who encourage him to
make sentimental speeches."

She persuaded herself that the looks and tones
which had offended meant very little. For Pamela's
sake she would like to think well of him.

"You have told me about a great many
people," she said, as he was leaving them, " but
you have told me nothing about my husband.
Did you hear if he was still at Enderby  and

weu r

He was still at Enderby up to the end of
November, and I believe he was well. I spent three
days at Riverdale, and heard of him from Mrs. Hill


Mildred asked no further question, nor did she
invite Mr. Castellani to repeat his visit. Happily
for his own success in life, he was not the kind of
person to wait for invitations.

I am staying in the hotel," he said. " I hope
I may drop in sometimes  tomorrow even. Miss

Ransome is good enough to say she would like to
sing some duets with me."

Miss Ransome knows I have not been receiving
any visitors," Mildred answered, with a touch of
reproachfulness.

0, but Mr. Castellani is an old friend! The
people you avoided were strangers," said Pamela
eagerly.

Mildred made no further protest. Few men
would have accepted a permission so grudgingly
given ; but Castellani stopped at no obstacle when
he had a serious purpose to serve : and in this case
his purpose was very serious ; for life or death, he
told himself.

He came next day, and the day after that, and
every day for four or five weeks, till the first flush of
precocious spring lent beauty to the landscape and
softness to the sky. Mildred submitted to his
visits as an inevitable consequence of Pamela's
folly ; submitted, and by and by fell into the habit
of being amused byCastellani ; interested in his talk
of men and women and of books, of which he seemed
to have read all of any mark that had ever been

written. She allowed herself to be interested ; she
allowed herself to be soothed by his music; she
let him become an influence in her life, unawares,
caught by a subtlety that had never been surpassed
by anybody of lesser gifts than Satan : but never did
this presumptuous wooer beguile her into one single
thought that wronged her absent husband. Her intellect
acknowledged the tempter's intellectual sway,
but her heart knew no wavering.

Cesar Castellani had seen a good deal of life, but
as he had assiduously cultivated the seamy side, it
was hardly strange if he lacked the power of understanding
a pure-minded woman. To his mind every
woman was a citadel, better or worse defended, but
always assailable by treason or strategy, force or art,
and never impregnable. Mrs. Greswold was his
Troy, his Thebes, his ideal of majesty and strength
in woman. So far as virtue went upon this earth
he believed Mildred Greswold to be virtuous ; proud,
too ; not a woman to lower her crest to the illicit
conqueror, or stain her name with the disgrace of a
runaway wife. But it had been given to him to
disturb a union that had existed happily for fourteen

years. It had been given to him to awaken
the baneful passion of jealousy, to sow the seeds of
suspicion, to part husband and wife. He had gone
to work carelessly enough in the first instance,
struck with Mildred's beauty and sweetness  full of
sentimental recollections of the fair child-face and
the bright streaming hair that had passed him like
a vision in the sunlight of Hyde Park. He had
envied the husband so fair a wife, so luxurious a
home, with its air of old-world respectability, that
deep - rooted English aristocracy of landed estate,
which to the foreign adventurer seemed of all conditions
in life the most enviable. He had been impelled
by sheer malice when he uttered his careless
allusion to George Greswold's past life, and with a
word blighted two hearts.

He saw the effect of the speech in the face of the
wife, and in the manner of the husband saw that he
had launched a thunderbolt. It was with deepest
interest he followed up his advantage ; watched and
waited for further evidence of the evil he had done.
He was a close student of the faces of women ; above
all, when the face was lovely. He saw all the marks

of secret care in Mrs. Greswold's countenance during
the weeks that elapsed between his first visit to Enderby
and the charity concert. He saw the deepening
shadows, the growing grief, and on the day of the
concert he saw the traces of a still keener pain in
those pale features and haggard eyes ; but for an
immediate separation between husband and wife he
was not prepared.

He heard at Riverdale of Mrs. Greswold's departure
from home. The suddenness and strangeness
of her journey had set all the servants talking. He
found out where she had gone, and hastened at once
to call upon his devoted friend Mrs. Tomkison, who
told him all she had to tell.

There is some domestic misery  an intrigue on
his part, I fear," said the glib Cecilia. *men are
such traitors. It would hardly surprise me tomorrow
if I was told that Adam was maintaining an
expensive menage in St. John's Wood. She would
tell me nothing, poor darling ; but she sent for Mr.
Canceller, and was closeted with him for an hour.
No doubt she told him everything. And then she
went off to Crichton."

Castellani followed to Brighton, and his influence
with Miss Fausset enabled him to learn something,
but not all. Not one word said Miss Fausset about
the supposed identity between George Greswold's
first wife and John Fausset's protegee ; but she told
Mr. Castellani that she feared her niece's separation
from her husband would be permanent.

"Why does she not divorce him," he asked, " if
he has wronged her ?"

He has not wronged her  in the way you mean.
And if he had, she could not divorce him, unless he
had beaten her. You men made the law, and framed
it in your own favour. It is a very sad case, Cesar,
and I am not at liberty to say any more about it.
You must ask me no more questions."

Castellani obeyed for the time being ; but he did
ask further questions upon other occasions, and he
exercised all his subtlety in the endeavour to extract
information from Miss Fausset. That lady, however,
was inflexible ; and he had to wait for time to
solve the mystery.

They have parted on account of that first marriage,"
he told himself. "Perhaps she has found

out all about the poor lady's fate, and takes the worst
View of the catastrophe. That would account for
their separation. She would not stay with a husband
she suspected ; he would not live with a wife
who could so suspect. A very pretty quarrel."

A quarrel  a life-long severance  but not a
divorce. There was the difficulty. Cesar Castellan!
believed himself invincible with women. The
weakest, and in some cases the worst, of the sex had
educated him into the belief that no woman lived
who could resist him. And here was a woman whom
he intensely admired, and whose married life it had
been his privilege to wreck. She was a rich woman
and it was essential to his success in life that he
should marry wealth. With all his various gifts he
was not a money-earning man, he would never attain
even lasting renown by his talents. For when the
good fairies had endowed him with music and poetry,
eloquence and grace, the strong-minded, hard-featured
fairy called Perseverance came to his christening
feast, and seeing no knife and fork laid for
her, doomed him to the curse of idleness. He had
all the talents which enable a man to shine in society

VOL. II. o

but he had also the money-spending talent, the
elegant tastes and inclinations which require some
thousands a year for their sustenance. Hitherto he
had lived by his wits  from hand to mouth; but
for some years past he had been on the look-out fora
rich wife.

He knew that Mildred Greswold was three times
richer than Pamela Ransome. The wealth of the
Faussets came within the region of his knowledge ;
and he knew how large a fortune John Fausset had
left his daughter, and how entirely that fortune was
at her own disposal. He might have had Pamela for
the asking ; Pamela, with a paltry fifteen hundred
a year; Pamela, who sang false and bored him
beyond measure. The higher prize seemed impossible
; but it was his nature to attempt the impossible.
His belief in his own power was boundless.

She cannot divorce her husband," he told himself;
" but he may divorce her if she should wrong
him, or even seem to wrong him : and the most innocent
woman may be compromised if her lover is daring
and will risk much for a great coup, as I would."

He thought himself very near success in these

lengthening afternoons in the beginning of February,
when he was allowed to spend the lovely hour of
sundown in Mrs. Greswold's salon, watching the
sunset from the wide plate-glass window, which commanded
a panorama of lake and mountain, with
every exquisite change from concentrated light to
suffused colour, and then to deepening purple that
slowly darkened into night. It was the hour in
which it was deemed dangerous to be out of doors;
but it was the loveliest hour of the day or the night,
and Mildred never wearied of that glorious outlook
over lake and sky. She was silent for the most part
at such a time, sitting in the shadow of the window-curtains,
her face hidden from the other two, sitting
apart from the world, thinking of the life that had
been and could never be again.

Sometimes in the midst of her sad thoughts Castellani
would strike a chord on the piano at the other
end of the room, and then a tender strain of melody
would steal out of the darkness, and that veiled
tenor voice would sing some of the saddest lines of
Heine, the poet of the broken heart, sadder than
Byron, sadder than Musset, sad with the sadness of

one who had never known joy. Those words wedded
to tenderest melody always moved Mildred Greswold
to tears. Castellani saw her tears and thought they
were given to him; such tears as yielding virtue
gives to the tempter. He knew the power of his
voice, the fascination of music for those in whom the
love of music is a part of their being. He could not
foresee the possibility of failure. He was already
admitted to that kind of intimacy which is the first
stage of success. He was an almost daily visitor ;
he came upon the two ladies in their walks and drives,
and contrived, unbidden, to make himself their companion
; he chose the books that both were to read,
and made himself useful in getting library parcels
sent from Milan or Paris. He contrived to make
himself indispensable, or at least thought himself so.
Pamela's eagerness filled up all the gaps ; she was so
full of talk and vivacity that it was not easy to be
sure about the sentiments of her more silent companion
; but Cesar Castellani's vanity was the key
with which he read Mildred's character and feelings.
"She is a sphinx," he told himself; "but I
think I can solve her mystery. The magnetic power

of such a love as mine must draw her to me sooner
or later."

Mr. Castellani had a profound belief in his own
magnetism. That word magnetic had a large place
in his particular creed. He talked of certain fascinating
women  generally a little passee  as " magnetic'*
He prided himself upon being a magnetic
man.

While Cesar Castellani flattered himself that he
was on the threshold of success, Mildred Greswold
was deliberating how best to escape from him and
his society for ever. Had she been alone there need
have been no difficulty ; but she saw Pamela's happiness
involved in his presence, she saw the fresh
young cheek pale at the thought of separation, and
she was perplexed how to act for the best. Had
Pamela been her daughter she could not have considered
her feelings more tenderly. She told herself
that Mr. Castellani would be a very bad match for
Miss Ransome ; yet when she saw the girl's face
grow radiant at the sound of his footsteps, when she
watched her dulness in his absence, that everlasting
air of waiting for somebody which marks the girl

who is in love, she found herself hoping that the
Italian would make a formal proposal, and she was
inclined to meet him half-way.

But the new year was six weeks old, and he had
not even hinted at matrimonial intentions, so Mildred
felt constrained to speak plainly.

*' My dearest Pamela, we are drifting into a very
uncomfortable position with Mr. Castellani," she
began gently. *' He comes here day after day as
if he were your fiance, and yet he has said nothing
definite."

Pamela grew crimson at this attack, and her
hands began to tremble over her crewel-work, though
she tried to go on working.

I respect him all the more for being in no haste
to declare himself. Aunt Mildred," she said, rather
angrily. "If he were the kind of adventurer you
once thought him, he would have made me an offer
ages ago. Why should he not come to see us ? I'm
sure he's very amusing and very useful. Even you
seem interested in him and cheered by him. Why
should he not come ? We have no one's opinion to
study in a foreign hotel."

I don't know about that, dear. People always
hear about things ; and it might injure you by and
by in society to have your name associated with Mr.
Castellani."

"lam sure I should be very proud of it," retorted
Pamela; "very proud to have my name
associated with genius'*

And you really, honestly believe you could be
happy as his wife, Pamela ?" asked Mildred gravely.

I know that I can never be happy with any one
else. I don't consider myself particularly clever,
aunt, but I believe I have the artistic temperament.
Life without art would be a howling wilderness forme."


Life means a long time, dear. Think what a
difference it must make whether you lead it with a
good or a bad man !"

All the goodness in the world would not make
me happy with a husband who was not musical ; not
John Howard, nor John Wesley, nor John Bunyan,
nor any of your model Johns. John Milton iras,"
added Pamela rather vaguely, ' and handsome into
the bargain ; but I'm afraid he was a little dry J"

Promise me at least this much, Pamela. First,
that you will take no step without your uncle's knowledge
and advice ; and next, that if ever you marry
Mr. Castellani, you will have your fortune strictly
settled upon yourself."

0, aunt, how sordid ! But perhaps it would
be best. If I had the money, I should give it all to
him : but if he had the money, with his artistic temperament
he would be sure to lavish it all upon
other people. He would not be able to pass a picturesque
beggar without emptying his pockets. Do
you remember how he was impressed by the four
old men on the church steps the other day ?"

Yes, but I don't think he gave them anything."

*' Not while we were with him ; but you maybe
sure he did afterwards."

After this conversation Mrs. Greswold made up
her mind on two points. She would arrange for a
prompt departure to Venice or Naples, whichever
might be advised for the spring season; and she
would sound Mr. Castellani as to his intentions. It
was not fair to Pamela that she should be kept in
the dark any longer, that the gentleman should be

allowed to sing duets with her, and advise her studies,
and join her in her walks, and yet give no definite
expression to his regard.

Mildred tried to think the best of him as a suitor
for her husband's niece. She knew that he was
clever ; she knew that he was fairly well born. On
his mother's side he sprang from the respectable
commercial classes ; on his father's side he belonged
to the art-world. There was nothing debasing in
such a lineage. From neither her friend Mrs. Tomkison
nor from Miss Fausset had she heard anything
to his discredit ; and both those ladies had known,
him long. There could therefore be no objection
on the score of character. Pamela ought to make
a much better marriage in the way of means and
position; but those excellent and well-chosen alliances
dictated by the wisdom of friends are sometimes
known to result in evil ; and, in a word, why
should not Pamela be happy in her own way ?

Having thus reasoned with herself, Mildred
watched for an opportunity to speak to Castellani.
She had not long to wait. He called rather earlier
than usual one afternoon, when Pamela had gone out

for a mountain ramble with her dog and her maid,
to search for those doubly precious flowers which
bloom with the first breath of spring. Castellani
had seen the young lady leave the hotel soon after
the midday meal, armed with her alpenstock, and
accompanied by her attendant carrying a basket*
She had fondly hoped that he would offer to join her
expedition, to dig out delicate ferns from sheltered
recesses, to hunt for mountain hyacinths and many-heed
anemones ; but he observed her departure perdu
behind a window-curtain in the reading-room, and
half-an-hour afterwards he was ushered into Mrs.
Greswold's drawing-room.

I feared you were ill," he said, " as I saw Miss
Kansome excursionising without you."

I have a slight headache, and felt more inclined
for a book than for a long walk. Why did you not
go with Pamela ? I daresay she would have been
glad of your company. Peterson is not a lively companion
for a mountain ramble."

Poor Miss Ransome ! How sad to be a young
English Meet, and to have to be chaperoned by a
person like Peterson !" said Castellani, with a careless

shrug. " No, I had no inclination to join in
the anemone hunt. Miss Ransome told me yesterday
what she was going to do. I have no passion
for wild flowers or romantic walks."

But you seem to have a great liking for Miss
Ransome's society," replied Mildred gravely. " You
have cultivated it very assiduously since you came
here, and I think I may be excused for fancying that
you came to Pallanza on her account."

"You may be excused for thinking anything
wild and improbable, because you are a woman and
wilfully blind," he answered, drawing his chair a
little nearer to hers, and lowering his voice with a
touch of tenderness. " But surely  surely you cannot
think that I came to Pallanza on Miss Ransome's
account?"

"I might not have thought so had you been a
less frequent visitor in this room, where you have
come  pardon me for saying so  very much of your
own accord. I don't think it was quite delicate or
honourable to come here so often, to be so continually
in the society of a frank, impressionable girl.

THE FATAL THREE,

unless you had some deeper feeling for her than
casual admiration."

Mrs. Greswold, upon my honour I have never
in the whole course of my acquaintance with Miss
Kansome hy one word or tone implied any warmer
feeling than that which you call casual admiration."

"And you are not attached to her ? you do not
cherish the hope of winning her for your wife ?"
asked Mildred seriously, looking at him with earnest
eyes.

That calm, grave look chilled him to the core of
his heart. His how flushed, his eyes grew dark
and troubled. He felt as if the crisis of his life
were approaching, and augury was unfavourable.

I have never cherished any such hope ; I never
shall."

Then why have you come here so continually ?"

For God's sake, do not ask me that question !
The time has not come."

** Yes, Mr. Castellani, the time has come. The
question should have been asked sooner. You have
compromised Miss Ransome by your meaningless
assiduities. You have compromised me ; for I

ought to have taken better care of her than to allow
an acquaintance of so ambiguous a character. But
I am very glad that I have spoken, and that you
have replied plainly. From to-day your visits must
cease. We shall go to the south of Italy in a few
days. Let me beg that you will not happen to be
travelling in the same direction."

Mildred was deeply indignant. She had cheapened
her husband's niece  Randolph Ransome's
co-heiress  a girl whom half the young men in
London would have considered a prize in the matrimonial
market : and this man, who had haunted
her at home and abroad for the last seven or eight
weeks, dared now to tell her that his attentions
were motiveless so far as her niece was concerned.

"0, Mildred, do not banish me!" he cried passionately.
" You must have understood. You must
know that it is you, and you only, for whom I care ;
you whose presence makes life lovely for me, in whose
absence I am lost and wretched. You have wrung
my secret from me. I did not mean to offend. I
would have respected your strange widowhood. I
would have waited half a lifetime. Only to see you,

to be near you  your slave, your proud, too happy
slave. That was all I would have asked. Why
may that not be ? Why may I not come and go,
like the summer wind that breathes round you, like
the flowers that look in at your window  faithful as
your dog, patient as old Time ? Why may it not
be, Mildred ?"

She stood up suddenly before him, white to the
lips, and with cold contempt in those eyes which he
had seen so lovely with the light of affection when
they had looked at her husband. She looked at him
unfalteringly, as she might have looked at a worm.
Anger had made her pale, but that was all.

You must have had a strange experience of
women before you would dare to talk to any honest
woman in such a strain as this, Mr. Castellani," she
said. " I will not lower myself so far as to tell you
what I think of your conduct. Miss Ransome shall
know the kind of person whose society she has
endured. I must beg that you will consider yourself
as much a stranger to her as to me from to-day."

She moved towards the bell, but he intercepted
her.

** You are very cruel," he said ; " but the day
will come when you will be sorry that you rejected
the most devoted love that was ever offered to woman,
in order to be true to broken bonds."

They are not broken. They will hold me to
my dying hour."

"Yes, to a madman and a murderer."

NOT PROVEN.

Mildred stood speechless for some moments after
those words of Castellani's, looking at him with
kindling eyes.

How dare you ?" she cried at last. *' How dare
you accuse my husband  the noblest of men ?"

The noblest of men do strange things sometimes
upon an evil impulse, and when they are not
quite right here," touching his forehead.

My husband, George Greswold, is too high a
mark for your malignity. Do you think you can
make me believe evil of him after fourteen years of
married life ? His intellect is the clearest and the
soundest I have ever found in man or woman. You
can no more shake my faith in his power of brain
than in his goodness of heart."

Perhaps not. The George Greswold you knows
a gentleman of commanding intellect and unblemished

character. But the George Ransome whom I
knew seventeen years ago was a gentleman who was
shrewdly suspected of having made away with his
wife; and who was confined in a public asylum in
the environs of Nice as a dangerous lunatic. If you
doubt these facts, you have only to go to Nice, or to
St. Jean, where Mr. Ransome and his wife lived for
some time in a turtle-dove retirement, which ended
tragically. Seventeen years does not obliterate the
evidence of such a tragedy as that in which your
husband was chief actor."

"I do not believe one word  and I hope I may
never hear your voice again," said Mildred, with her
hand on the electric bell.

She did not remove her hand till her servant, the
courier, opened the door. A look told him his
duty. Castellani took up his hat without a word ;
and Albrecht deferentially attended him to the landing,
and politely whistled for the lift to convey him
to the vestibule below.

Castellani made the descent, feeling like Lucifer
when he fell from heaven.

"Too soon!" he muttered to himself. "She

VOL. II. p

took the cards out of my hands  she forced ray play,
and spoiled my game. But I have given her something
to think about. She will not forget to-day's
interview in a hurry."

Albrecht, the handiest of men, was standing
beside him, working the lift,

Where is your next move to be, Albrecht ?" he
asked in German.

The noble-born lady had not yet decided, Albrecht
told him ; but he thought the move would be either
to Venice or to Posilippo.

If I pretended to be a prophet, Albrecht, I
should tell thee that the honourable lady will go to
neither Venice nor Posilippo ; but that thy next
move will be to the Kiviera, perhaps to Nice."

Albrecht shrugged his shoulders in polite indifference.


*look here, my friend, come thou to me when
madame gives the order for Nice, and I vsrill give
thee a louis for assuring me that I prophesied right,"
said Castellani, as he stepped out of the lift.

Mildred walked up and down the room, trying to

control the confusion of her thoughts, trying to
reason calmly upon that hideous accusation which
she had affected to despise, but which yet had struck
terror to her soul. Would he dare to bring such a
charge  villain and traitor as he was  if there were
not some ground for the accusation, some glimmer
of truth amidst a cloud of falsehood ?

And her husband's manner : his refusal to tell
her the history of his first marriage ; his reticence,
his secrecy  reticence so out of harmony with his
boldly truthful nature; the gloom upon his face
when she forced him to speak of that past life : all
these things came back upon her with appalling
force, and even trifles assumed a direful significance.

0, my beloved ! what was that dark story, and
why did you leave me to hear it from such false lips
as those ?"

And then with passionate tears she thought how
easy it would have been to forgive and pity even a
tale of guilt  unpremeditated guilt, doubtless, fatality
rather than crime  if her husband had laid his
weary head upon her breast and told her all ; holding
back nothing; confident in the strength of a great

love to understand and to pardon. How much
easier would it have been to bear the burden of a
guilty secret, so shared, in the supreme trustfulness
of her husband's love ! How light a burden compared
with this which was laid upon her ! this horror
of groping backward into the black night of the past.

"I must know the worst," she said to herself;
"I will test that scoundrel's accusation. I must
know all. I will take no step to injure my dear
love. I will seek no help, trust no friend. I must
act alone."

Then came a more agonising thought of the hapless
wife  the victim.

My sister ! What was your fate ? I must
know."

Her thoughts came back always to that point 
I must know all."

She recalled the image of that unacknowledged
sister, the face bending over her bed when she started
up out of a feverish dream, frightened and in tears,
to take instant comfort from that loving presence, to
fling her arms round Fay's neck, and nestle upon
her bosom. Never had that sisterly love failed her.

The quiet watcher was always near. A sigh, a
faint little murmur, and the volunteer nurse was at
her side. Often on waking she had found Fay sitting
by her bed, in the dead of the night, motionless
and watchful, sleepless from loving care.

Her love for Fay had been one of the strongest
feelings of her life. She, who had been ever dutiful
to the frivolous, capricious mother, had yet unconsciously
given a stronger affection to the companion
who had loved her with an unselfish love, which the
mother had never shown. Her regard for Fay
had been the one romance of her childhood, and had
continued the strongest sentiment of her mind until
the hour when, for the first time, she knew the
deeper love of womanhood, and gave her heart to
George Greswold.

And now these two supreme affections rose up
before her in dreadful conflict ; and in the sister so
faithfully loved and so fondly regretted she saw the
victim of her still dearer husband.

Pamela's footsteps and Pamela's voice in the
corridor startled her in the midst of those dark
thoughts. She hurriedly withdrew to her own

room, where the maid Louisa was sitting, intent
upon one of those infinitesimal repairs which served
as an excuse for her existence.

Go and tell Miss Ban some that I cannot dine
with her. My headache is worse than it was when
she went out. Ask her to excuse me."

Louisa obeyed, and Mildred locked the door upon
her grief. She sat all through the long evening
brooding over the past and the future, impatient to
know the worst.

She was on her way to Genoa with Pamela and
their attendants before the following noon. Albrecht,
the courier, had scarcely time to claim the promised
coin from Mr. Castellani.

Miss Ransome repined at this sudden departure.

"Just as we were going to be engaged," she
sobbed, when she and Mildred were alone in a railway
compartment. " It is really unkind of you to
whisk one oJ0f in such a way, aunt."

My dear Pamela, you have had a lucky
escape; and I hope you will never mention Mr.
Castellani's name again. He is an utterly bad

"How cruel to say such a thing!  behind his
back, too ! What has he done that is bad, I should
like to know?"

I cannot enter into details ; but I can tell you
one thing, Pamela : he has never had any idea of
asking you to be his wife. He told me that in the
plainest language."

** Do you mean to say that you questioned him
about his feelings  for me ?"

I did what I felt was my duty, Pamela  my
duty to you and to your uncle."

Duty !" ejaculated Pamela, with such an air
that Box began to growl, imagining his mistress in
want of protection. " Duty ! It is the most hateful
word in the whole of the English language. You
asked him when he was going to propose to me 
you lowered and humiliated me beyond all that words
can say  you  you spoilt everything."

*' Pamela, is this reasonable or just'*

To be asked when he was going to propose to
a girl  with his artistic temperament  the very
thing to disgust him," said Pamela, in a series of

gasps. " If you had wanted to part us for ever you
could not have gone to work better."

Whatever I wanted yesterday, I am quite clear
about my feelings to-day, Pamela. It is my earnest
hope that you and Mr. Castellani will never meet
again."

"You are very cruel, then  heartless  inhuman.
Because you have done with love  because you have
left my poor Uncle George  Heaven alone knows why
is no one else to be happy ?"

You could not be happy with Cesar Castellani,
Pamela. Happiness does not lie that way. I tell
you again, he is a bad man."

*' And I tell you again I don't believe you. In
what way is he bad ? Does he rob, murder, forge,
set fire to people's houses? What has he done
that is bad ?"

He has traduced your uncle  to me, his wife."

Pamela's countenance fell.

*' You  you may have misunderstood him," she
faltered.

No, there was no possibility of mistake. He
wandered my husband. He let me see in the plainest

way that he had no real regard for you, that he
did not care how far his frequent visits compromised
either you or me. He is utterly base, Pamela  a
man without rectitude or conscience. He would
have clung to us like some poisonous burr if I had
not shaken him off. My dear, dear child," said
Mildred, putting her arm round Pamela's reluctant
waist, and drawing [the girlish figure nearer to her
side, to the relief of Box, who leaped upon their
shoulders and licked their faces in a rapture of
sympathetic feeling ; ** my dear, you have been
treated very badly, but I am not to blame. You
have had a lucky escape, Pamela. "Vliy be angry
about it ?"

It is all very well to talk like that," sighed the
girl, wrinkling her white forehead in painful perplexity.
" He was my day-dream. One cannot
renounce one's day-dream at a moment's warning.
If you knew the castles I have built  a life spent
with him  a life devoted to the cultivation of art !
He would have made my voice ; and we could
have had a flat in Queen Anne's Mansions, and
a brougham and victoria, and lived within our

income," concluded Pamela, following her own train
of thought.

My dearest, there are so many worthier to
share your life. You will have new day-dreams'*

Perhaps when I am sixty. It will take me a
lifetime to forget him. Do you think I could marry
a country bumpkin, or any one who was not artistic ?"

*' You shall not be asked to marry a rustic. The
artistic temperament is common enough nowadays.
Almost every one is artistic."

Pamela shrugged her shoulders petulantly, and
turned to the window in token that she had said her
say. She grieved like a child who has been disappointed
of some jaunt looked forward to for long
days of expectation. She tried to think herself ill-used
by her uncle's wife; and yet that commonsense
of which she possessed a considerable share
told her that she had only herself to blame. She
had chosen to fall in love with a showy, versatile
adventurer, without waiting for evidence that he
cared for her. Proud in the strength of her position
as an independent young woman with a handsome
fortune and a fairly attractive person, she had

imagined that Mr. Castellani could look no higher,
hope for nothing better than to obtain her hand and
heart. She had ascribed his reticence to delicacy.
She had accepted his frequent visits as an evidence
of his attachment and of his ulterior views.

And now she sat in a sulky attitude, coiled up
in a corner of the carriage, with her face to the
window, meditating upon her fool's paradise. For
seven happy weeks she had seen the man she admired
almost daily ; and her own intense sympathy with
him had made her imagine an equal sympathy on
his part When their hands touched the thrilling
vibration seemed mutual ; and yet it had been on
her side only, poor fool, she told herself now, abased
in her own self-consciousness, drinking the cup of
humiliation to the dregs.

He had slandered her uncle  yes, that was
villany, that was iniquity. She began to think that
he was utterly black. She remembered how coldly
cruel he had been about the anemone hunt yesterday ;
how deaf to her girlish hints ; never offering his
company : colder, crueller than marble. She felt as
if she had squandered her love upon Satan. Yet she

was not the less angry with Mildred. That kind of
interference was unpardonable.

She arrived at Genoa worn out with a fatiguing
journey, and in a worse temper than she had ever
sustained for so long a period, she whose worst
tempers hitherto had been like April showers.
Mildred had reciprocated her silence, and Box had
been the only animated passenger.

The clever courier had made all his arrangements
by telegraph : they spent a night at Genoa ; drove
round the city next morning ; explored churches,
palaces, and picture-galleries ; and went on to Nice in
the afternoon. They arrived at the great bustling
station late in the evening, and were driven to one
of the hotels on the Promenade des Anglais, where
all preparations had been made for their reception :
a glowing hearth in a spacious drawing-room opening
on to a balcony, lamps and candles lighted,
roses on all the tables, maid and man on the alert to
receive travellers of distinction. So far as a place
which is not home can put on an aspect of homeliness
the hotel had succeeded ; but Mildred looked
round upon the white and gold walls, and the satin

fauteuils, with an aching heart, remembering those
old rooms at Enderbj, and the familiar presence
that had first made them dear to her, before the
habit of years had made those inanimate things a
part of her life.

She was at Nice ; she had taken the slanderer's
advice, and had gone to the city by the sea, to try
and trace out for herself the mystery of the past,
to violate her husband's secret, kept so long and so
closely, only to rise up after years of happiness, like
a murdered corpse exhumed from a forgotten grave.

She was here, on the scene of her husband's
first marriage, and for three or four days she walked
and drove about the strange busy place aimlessly,
hopelessly, no nearer the knowledge of that dark
history than she had been at Enderby Manor. Not
for worlds would she injure the man she loved.
She wanted to know all ; but the knowledge must
be obtained in such a way as could not harm him.
This necessitated diplomacy, which was foreign to
her nature, and patience, in which womanly quality
she excelled. She had learnt patience iu her tender

ministrations to a fretful invalid, during those sad
slow years in which pretty Mrs. Fausset had faded
into the grave. Yes, she had learnt to be patient,
and to submit to sorrow. She knew how to wait.

The place, delightful as it was in the early
spring weather, possessed no charms for her. Its
gaiety and movement jarred upon her. The sunsets
were as lovely here as at Pallanza, and
her only pleasure was to watch that ever-varying
splendour of declining day behind the long dark
promontory of Antibes ; or to see the morning dawn
in a flush of colour above the white lighthouse
yonder at the point of the peninsula of St. Jean.
It was in the village of St. Jean that George Greswold
had lived with his first wife  with Fay. The bright
face, pale, yet brilliant, a face in which light took
the place of colour ; the eager eyes ; the small sharp
features and thin sarcastic lips, rose up before her
with the thought of that union. He must have
loved her. She was so bright, so interesting, so
full of vivid fancies and changeful emotions. To
this hour Mildred remembered her fascination, her
power over a child's heart.

Pamela was dull and out of spirits. Not all the
Tauchnitz novels in Galignani's shop could interest
her. She pronounced Nice distinctly inferior to
Brighton ; declined even the distraction of the opera.

"Music would only make me miserable' she
exclaimed petulantly. " I wish I might never hear
any again. That hateful band in the gardens tortures
me every morning."

This was not hopeful. Mildred was sorry for
her, but too deeply absorbed by her own griefs to be
altogether sympathetic.

She will find some one else to admire before
long," she thought somewhat bitterly. '' Girls who
fall in love so easily are easily consoled."

She had been at Nice more than a week, and had
made no effort  yearning to know more  to know all
yet dreading every new revelation. She had to
goad herself to action, to struggle against the weight
of a great fear the fear that she might find the
slanderer's accusations confirmed instead of being
refuted.

Her first step was a very simple one, easy
enough from a social point of view. Among old

Lady Castle-cornell's intimate friends had been a
certain Irish chieftain called The O'Labacolly. The
O'Labacolly's daughter had been one of the
reigning beauties of Dublin Castle, had appeared
for three seasons in London with considerable eclat,
and in due course had married a Scotch peer, who
was lord of an extensive territory in the Highlands,
strictly entailed, and of a more profitable estate in
the neighbourhood of Glasgow at his own disposal.
Lord Lochinvar had been laid at rest in the sepulchre
of his forebears, and Lady Lochinvar was a
rich widow, still handsome, and still young enough
to enjoy all the pleasures of society. She had no
children of her own, but she had a favourite nephew,
whom she had adopted, and who acted as her escort
in her travels, which were extensive, and as her
steward in the management of the Glasgow property,
which had been settled upon her at her marriage.
The Highland territory had gone with the title
to a distant cousin of Lady Lochinvar's husband.

Mildred remembered that Castellani had spoken
of meeting Mr. Kan some and his wife at Lady
Lochinvar's palace at Nice. Her first step, therefore,

was to make herself known to Lady Lochinvar,
who had wintered in this fair white city ever since
she came there as a young widow twenty years ago,
and had bought for herself a fantastic villa, built
early in the century by an Italian prince, on the
crest of a hill commanding the harbour.

With this view she wrote to Lady Lochinvar,
recalling the old friendship between The O'Laba-
colly and Lady Castle-cornell, and introducing herself
on the strength of that friendship. Lady
Lochinvar responded with Hibernian warmth. She
called at the Hotel Westminster that afternoon, and.
not finding Mrs. Greswold at home, left a note
inviting her to lunch at the Palais Montano next
day.

Mildred promptly accepted the invitation. She
was anxious to be alone with Lady Lochinvar, and
there seemed a better chance of a tete-a tete at tho
lady's house than at the hotel, where it would have
been difficult to exclude Pamela. She drove to that
fair hill on the eastward side of the city, turning
her back upon the quaint old Italian town, with its
narrow streets of tall white houses with red roofs,

VOL. II. Q

and its Cathedral dome embedded in the midst, the
red and yellow tiles glistening in the sunlight. The
two small horses toiled slowly up the height with
the great lumbering landau, carrying Mildred nearer
and nearer to the bright blue sky and the snow-line
glittering on the edge of the distant hills. They
went past villas and flower-gardens, hedges of yellow
roses and hedges of coral-hued geranium, cactus
and agave, palms and orange-trees, shining majolica
tubs and white marble balustrades, statues and
fountains, oriel windows and Italian cupolas, turrets
and towers of every order ; while the sapphire sea
dropped lower and lower beneath the chalky winding
road, as the jutting promontory that shelters
Villefranche from the east came nearer and nearer
above the blue.

The Italian prince who built the Palais Montano
had aspired after Oriental rather than classic beauty'
His house was long and low, with two ranges of
Moorish windows, and a dome at each end. There
was an open loggia on the first floor, with a balustrade
of white and coloured marble ; there was a
gallery above the spacious tesselated hall, screened

by carved sandal-wood lattices, behind which the
beauties of a arena might be supposed to watch the
entrances and exits below. The house was fantastic,
but fascinating. The garden was the growth
of more than half a century, and was supremely
beautiful.

Lady Lochinvar received the stranger with a
cordiality which would have set Mildred thoroughly
at her ease under happier circumstances. As it
was, she was too completely engrossed by the object
of her visit to feel any of that shyness which a person
of retiring disposition might experience on such
an occasion. She was grave and preoccupied, and
it was with an effort that she responded to Lady
Lochinvar's allusions to the past.

Your mother and I were girls together," said
the Dowager, 'eat dear old Castle-cornell. My
father's place was within a drive of the Castle, but
away from the river, and one of my first pleasant
memories is of your grandfather's gardens and the
broad, bright Shannon. What a river ! When I
look at our stony torrent-beds here, and remember
that glorious Shannon !"

Yet you like Nice better than county Limerick?"


Of course I do, my dear Mrs. Greswold. Ireland
is a delicious country  to remember. I saw a
good deal of your mother in London before his lordship's
death, but after I became a widow, I went
very little into English society. I had found English
people so narrow-minded. I only endured
them for Lochinvar's sake ; and after his death I
became a rover. I have an apartment in the
Champs Elysees sid a. pied-a-teri'e in Rome; and
now and then, when I want to drink a draught of
commonplace, when I want to know what the hardheaded,
practical British intellect is making of the
world in general, I give myself a fortnight at Coleridge's.
A fortnight is always enough. So, you
see, I have had no opportunity of looking up old
friends."

I never remember seeing you in Upper Parchment
Street," said Mildred.

My dear, you were a baby at the time I knew
your mother. I think you were just able to toddle
across the drawing-room the day I bade her goodbye,

before I went to Scotland with Lochinvar  our
last journey, poor dear man. He died the following
winter."

The butler announced luncheon, and they went into
an ideal dining-room, purely Oriental, with hangings
of a dull pale pink damask interwoven with lustreless
gold, its only ornaments old Rhodes salvers
shining with prismatic hues, its furniture of cedar
inlaid with ivory.

I am quite alone to-day," said Lady Lochinvar.
My nephew is driving to Monte Carlo by the
Cornice, and will not be back till dinner-time."

"I am very glad to be alone with you. Lady
Lochinvar. I feel myself bound to tell you that I
had an arriere-pensee in seeking your acquaintance,
pleasant as it is to me to meet any friend of my
mother's youth."

Lady Lochinvar looked surprised, and even a
little suspicious. She began to fear some uncomfortable
story. This sad-looking woman  such a
beautiful face, but with such unmistakable signs of
unhappiness. A runaway wife, perhaps ; a poor
creature who had fallen into disgrace, and who

wanted Lady Lochinvar's help to regain her position,
or face her calumniators. Some awkward business,
no doubt. Lady Lochinvar was generous to a fault,
but she liked showing kindness to happy people, she
wanted smiling faces and serenity about her. She
had never known any troubles of her own, worse
than losing the husband whom she had married for
his wealth and position, and saw no reason why she
should be plagued with the troubles of other people.
Her handsome countenance hardened ever so little
as she answered,

"If there is any small matter in which I can be
of service to you  " she began.

"It is not a small matter ; it is a great matter
to  to a friend of mine," interrupted Mildred,
faltering a little in her first attempt at dissimulation.

Lady Lochinvar breathed more freely.

I shall be charmed to help your friend if I
can.

The butler came in and out, assisted by another
servant, as the conversation went on ; but as his
mistress spoke to him and to his subordinate only
in Italian, Mildred concluded they understood very

little English, and dict not concern herself about
their presence.

I want you to help me with your recollection
of the past, Lady Lochinvar. You were at Nice
seventeen years ago, I believe ?"

** Between November and April, yes. I have
spent those months here for the last twenty
years."

You remember a Mr. Ransome and his wife,
seventeen years ago ?"

Yes, I remember them distinctly. I cannot
help remembering them."

"Have you ever met Mr. Ransome since that
time ?"

'' Never."

"And you have not heard anything about him ?"'

No, I have never heard of him since he left
the asylum on the road to St. Andre. Good
heavens, Mrs. Greswold, how white you have turned !
Pietro, some brandy this moment  "

"No, no! I am quite well  only a little
shocked, that is all. I had heard that Mr. Ransome
was out of his mind at one time, but I did not believe

my informant. It is really true, then ? He
was once mad?"

Yes, he was mad ; unless it was all a sham, a
clever assumption."

"Why should he have assumed madness?"

Lady Lochinysir shrugged her portly shoulders,
and lifted her finely-arched eyebrows with a little
foreign air which had grown upon her in foreign
society.

To escape from a very awkward dilemma. He
was arrested on suspicion of having killed his wife.
The evidence against him was weak, but the circumstances
of the poor thing's death were very
suspicious."

'how did she die?"

*' She threw herself  or she was thrown  from a
cliff on the other side of the promontory which you
may see from that window."

Mildred was silent for some moments, while her
breath came and went in hurried gasps.

Might she not have fallen accidentally?" she
faltered.

** That would have been hardly possible. It was

a place where she had been in the habit of walking
for weeks  a path which anybody might walk
upon in the daylight without the slightest danger
And the calamity happened in broad day. She could
not have fallen accidentally. Either she threw herself
over, or he pushed her over in a moment of ungovernable
anger. She was a very provoking woman
and had a tongue which might goad a man to fury
I saw a good deal of her the winter before her death
She was remarkably clever, and she amused me
I had a kind of liking for her, and I used to let her
tell me her troubles."

What kind of troubles ?"

0, they all began and ended in one subject.
She was jealous, intolerably jealous, of her husband;
suspected him of inconstancy to herself if he was
commonly civil to a handsome woman. She watched
him like a lynx, and did her utmost to make his life
a burden to him, yet loved him passionately all the
time in her vehement, wrong-headed manner."

Poor girl ! poor girl !" murmured Mildred,
with a stifled sob, and then she asked with intense
earnestness, "but. Lady Lochinvar, you who knew

George Kansome, surely you never suspected him
of murder ?"

"I don't know, Mrs. Greswold. I believe he
was a gentleman, and a man of an open, generous
nature ; but, upon my word, I should be sorry to
pledge myself to a positive belief in his innocence as
to his wife's death. Who can tell what a man might
do, harassed and tormented as that man may have
been by that woman's tongue ? I know what pestilential
things she could say  what scorpions and
adders dropped out of her mouth when she was in
her jealous fits  and she may have gone just one
step too far  walking by his side upon that narrow
path  and he may have turned upon her, exasperated
to madness, and  one push  and the thing was
done. The edge of a cliff must be an awful temptation
under such circumstances," added Lady 
solemnly. *'I am sure I would not answer for
myself in such a situation."

"I will answer for him'" said Mildred firmly.

You know him, then ?"

*' Yes, I know him."

"Where is lie? What is he doing? Has he
prospered in life ?"

"Yes, and no. He was a happy man  or segued
to be happy  for thirteen years of married life ; and
then God's hand was stretched out to afflict him,
and his only child was snatched away."

"He married again, then?"

"Yes, he married a second wife fourteen years
ago. Forgive me, Lady Lochinvar, for having suppressed
the truth till now. I wanted you to answer
me more freely than you might have done had you
known all. George Ransome is my husband; he
assumed the name of Greswold when he succeeded
to his mother's property."

Then Mr. Greswold, your husband, is my old
acquaintance. Is he with you here?"

No. I have left him  perhaps for ever."

On account of that past story ?"

"No, for another reason, which is my sad secret,
and his  a family secret. It involves no blame to
him or me. It is a dismal fatality which parts us.
You cannot suppose. Lady Lochinvar, that I could
think my husband a murderer ?"

A murderer ? No ! I do not believe any one ever
thought him guilty of deliberate murder  but that
he lost his temper with that unhappy girl, spurned
her from him, flung her over the edge of the cliff  "

*' 0, no, no, no ! it is not possible ! I know him
too well. He is not capable of a brutal act even
under the utmost exasperation. No irritation, no
sense of injury, could bring about such a change in
his nature. Think, Lady Lochinvar. I have been
his wife for fourteen years. I must know what his
character is like."

"You know what he is in happy circumstances,
with an attached and confiding wife. You cannot
imagine him goaded to madness by an unreasonable,
hot-headed woman. You remember he was mad
for half a year after his wife's death. There
must have been some sufficient reason for his madness."


His wife's wretched death, and the fact that he
was accused of having murdered her, were enough
to make him mad."

And then Mildred remembered how she had tortured
her husband by her persistent questions about

that terrible past ; how, in her jealousy of an unknown
rival, she, too, had goaded him almost as that
first wife had goaded him. She recalled the look of
pain, the mute protest against her cruelty, and she
hated herself for the selfishness of her love.

Lady Lochinvar was kind and sympathetic. She
was not angry at the trap that had been set for her.
I can understand," she said. '' You wanted to
know the worst, and you felt that I should be reticent
if I knew you were Mr. Ransome's wife. Well, I
have said all the evil I can say about him. Remember
I know nothing except what other people thought
and suspected. There was an inquiry about the
poor thing's death before the Juge instruction at
Yillefranche, and Mr. Ran some was kept in prison
between the first and second inquiry, and then it
was discovered that the poor fellow had gone ofi" his
head, and he was taken to the asylum. He had no
relations in the neighbourhood, nobody interested in
looking after him. His acquaintances in Nice knew
very little about him or his wife, even when they
were living at an hotel on the Promenade des Anglais
and going into society. After they left Nice

they lived in seclusion at St. Jean, and avoided all
their acquaintance. Mrs. Ransome's health was a
reason for retirement : hut it may not have been the
only reason. There was no one, therefore, to look
after the poor man in his misfortunes. Hs was just
hustled away to the madhouse  the inquiry fell
through for want of evidence  and for six months
George Ransome was buried alive. I was in Paris
at the time, and only heard the story when I came
back to Nice in the following November. Nobody
could tell me what had become of Mr. Ransome, and
it was only by accident that I heard of his confinement
in the asylum some time after he had been
released as a sane man."

Did his wife ever talk to you of her own history
?"

"Never. She was very fond of talking to me
about her husband's supposed inconstancy and the
mistake she had made in marrying a man who had
never cared for her ; but about her own people and
her own antecedents she was silent as the grave. Ina
place like Nice, where everybody is idle, there is
sure to be a good deal of gossip, and we all had our

own ideas about Mrs. Ransome. "We put lier down
as the natural daughter of some person of importance,
or, at any rate, of good means. She had her
own fortune, and was entirely independent of her
husband, who was not a rich man at that time."

Xo, it was his mother's death that made him
rich. But you did not think he had married for
money ?"

No ; our theory was that he had been worried
into marrying her. We thought the lady had thrown
herself at his head, and that all her unhappiness
sprang from her knowledge that she had in a measure
forced him to marry her."

Do you remember the name of the house at St.
Jean where They lived when they left Nice ?"

"Yes, I called there once, but as Mrs. Ransome
never returned my call, I concluded that they wished
to drop their Nice acquaintance, and I heard afterwards
that they were living like hermits in a cave.
The house is a low white villa, spread out along the
edge of a grassy ridge, with a broad stone terrace on
one side and a garden and orchard on the other. It
is called Le Bout du Monde."

**I am very grateful to you, Lady Locliinvar, for
having been frank with me. I will go and look at
the house where they lived. I may find some one,
perhaps, who knew them."

*' You want to make further inquiries ?"

*' I want to find some one who is as convinced of
my husband's guiltlessness as I am."

That will be difficult. There was very little
evidence for or against him. The husband and wife
went out to walk together one April afternoon. They
left the house in peace and amity, as it seemed to
their servants ; but some ladies who met and talked
to them an hour afterwards thought by Mrs. Kan-some's
manner that she was on bad terms with her
husband. When she was next seen she was lying
at the foot of a cliff*, dead. That is all that is known
of the tragedy. You could hardly hang a man or
acquit him upon such evidence. It is a case of not
proven."

LOOKING BACK.

Lady Lochinyar offered to drive Mrs. Greswold
to St. Jean that afternoon. Her villa was half-way
between Nice and Villefranche, and half-an-hour's
drive would have taken them to the Bout du Monde ;
but Mildred preferred to make her explorations
alone. There was too much heart-ache in such an
investigation to admit of sympathy or companionship.

You are all goodness to me, dear Lady ,"
she said, " and I may come to you again for
help before I have done ; but I would rather visit the
scene of my husband's tragedy alone  quite alone.
You cannot tell how sad the story is to me, even
apart from my love for him. I may be able to confide
in you more fully some day, perhaps."

Lady Lochinvar kissed her at parting. She did
not care for commonplace troubles ; she could not
sympathise with stupid family quarrels or shortness

VOL. II. R

of money, or any of the vulgar trivialities about
which people worry their friends ; but a romantic
sorrow, a tragedy with a touch of mystery in it, was
full of interest for her. And then, Mildred was a
graceful sufferer, not hysterical or tiresome in anyway.


*' I will do anything in the world that I can for
you," she said.

Will you let me bring my husband's niece
to see you ?" asked Mildred. " She has a dull
time with me, poor girl, and I think you would like
her."

She shall come to me this evening, if she has
nothing better to do," said Lady Lochinvar. " I
am fond of young people, and will do my best
to amuse her. I will send my carriage for herat
half-past seven."

That is more than kind. I shall be glad for
the poor girl to get a glimpse of something brighter
than our perpetual tete-astute. But there is one
thing I ought to speak about before you see her. I
think you know something of an Italian called
Castellani, a man who is both musical and literary."

*' Yes, I have heard of Mr. Castellani's growing
fame. He is the author of that delightful story
Nepenthe, is he not "? I knew him years ago  it was
in the same winter we have been talking about. He
used to come to my parties. Do you know him ?"'

He has been a visitor at Enderby  my husband's
house  and I have seen something of him
in Italy of late. I am sorry to say he has made
a very strong impression upon my niece's heart  or
upon her imagination  but as I know him to be a
worthless person, I am deeply anxious that her
liking for him should  "

"Die a natural death. I understand," interrupted
Lady Lochinvar. " You may be sure I will
not encourage the young lady to talk about Mr.
Castellani."

Mildred explained her responsibility with regard
to Pamela and the young lady's position, with its
substantial attraction for the adventurer in search of
a wife. She had deemed it her duty to confide thus
much in Lady Lochinvar, lest Castellani should
change his tactics, and pursue Pamela with addresses
which might be only too readily accepted.

She left the Palais Montano at two o'clock, and
drove round the bay to St. Jean, where the rose-hedges
were in flower, and where the gardens
were bright with bloom under a sky which suggested
an English June.

She left the fly at the little inn where the holiday
people go to eat bouillabaisse on Sundays and
fete-days, but which was silent and solitary to-day,
and then walked slowly along the winding road,
looking for the Bout du Monde. The place was
prettier and more rustic, after an almost English
fashion, than any spot she had seen since she left
Enderby. Villas and cottages were scattered in a
desultory way upon different levels, under the shelter
of precipitous cliff's, and on every bit of rising
ground and in every hollow there were orange and
lemon groves, with here and there a peach ora
cherry in full bloom, and here and there a vivid
patch of flowers, and here and there a wall covered
with the glowing purple of the Bougainvilliers.
Great carouse-trees rose tall and dark amidst all this
brightness, and through every opening in the foliage
the changeful colour of the Mediterranean shone

in the distance, like the jasper sea of the Apocalypse.


Mildred went slowly along the dusty road,
looking at all the villas, lingering here and there at
a garden gate, and asking any intelligent-looking
person who passed to direct her to the Bout du
Monde. It was not till she had made the inquiry
half-a-dozen times that she obtained any information ;
hut at last she met with a bright-faced market-woman,
tramping home with empty baskets after a
long morning at Nice, and white with the dust of
the hill-side.

''Le Bout du Monde? But that was the villa
where the poor young English lady lived whose
husband threw her over the cliff," said the woman
cheerily. " The proprietor changed the name of the
house next season, for fear people should fancy it
was haunted if the story got about. It is called
Montfleuri now."

"Is there anyone living there ?" Mildred asked.

No, it was let last year to an English family.
0, but an amiable family, rich, ah, but ricJiissime,
who had bought flowers in heaps of the speaker.

But they had left, malheureusement. They had
returned to their property near London, a great
and stupendous property in a district which the
flower-woman described as le Crommu-elle Road.
There had never been such a family in St. Jean 
five English servants, three English meet who
mounted on horseback daily : a benefaction for the
whole village. Now, alas ! there was no one living
at Montfleuri but an old woman in charge.

Could you take me to the house ?" asked
Mildred, opening her purse.

The woman would have been all politeness and
good-nature without the stimulant offered by that
open purse. She had all the southern kindliness
and alacrity to oblige, but when the lady dropped
half-a-dozen francs into her broad brown hand she
almost sank to the earth in a rapture of gratitude.

"Madame shall see the house from garret to
cellar if she wishes," she exclaimed. "I know the old
Vk'oman in charge. She is as deaf as one of those
stones yonder," pointing to a block of blue-gray
stone lying amidst the long rank grass upon the
shelving ground between the road and the sea; " but

if madame will permit 7 will show her the house.
Madame is perhaps interested in the story of that
poor lady who was murdered."

"Why do you say that she was murdered?"
asked Mildred indignantly. " You cannot know."

The woman shrugged her shoulders with a
dubious air.

Mais, madame. Nobody but the good God can
know : but most of us thought that the Englishman
pushed his wife over the cliff. They did not live
happily together. Their cook was a cousin of mine,
a young woman who went regularly to confession,
and would not have spoken falsely for all the world,
and she told me there was great unhappiness between
them. The wife was often in tears ; the husband
was often angry."

*' But he was never unkind. Your cousin must
know that he was never unkind."

"Alas ! my cousin lies in the same burial-ground
yonder with the poor lady," answered the woman,
pointing to the white crest of the hill above Ville-franche,
where the soldiers were being drilled in the
dusty barrack-yard under the cloudless blue. " She

is no more here to tell the story But no, she did
not say the husband was unkind ; he was grave and
sad; he was not happy. Tears, tears and reproaches,
sad words from her, day after day ; and from him
silence and gloom. Poor people like us, who work
for our bread, have no leisure for that kind of unhappiness.
* I would rather stand over my casseroles
than sit in a salon and cry,' said my cousin."

"It is cruel to say he caused her death, when
you know he was never unkind to her," said Mildred,
as they walked side by side ; ** a patient, forbearing
husband does not become a murderer all at once."

Ah, but continual dropping will wear a stone,
madame. She may have tried him too much with
her tears. He went out of his mind after her death.
Would he have gone mad, do you think, if he had
not been guilty ?"

He was all the more likely to go mad, knowing
himself innocent, and finding himself accused of a
dreadful crime."

Well, I cannot tell ; I know most of us thought
he had pushed her over the cliff*. I know the young
man who was their gardener said if he had had a

wife with that kind of temper lie would have thrown
her down the well in his garden."

They were at the Villa Montfleuri by this time,
a long, low white house, with a stone terrace overlooking
the harbour of Yillefranche. The woman
opened the gate, and Mildred followed her into the
garden and to the terrace upon which the principal
rooms opened. There was a latticed verandah in
front of the salon and dining-room, over which roses
and geraniums were trained, and above which the
purple Bougainvilliers spread its vivid bloom. The
orange-trees grew thick in the orchard, and in their
midst stood the stone well down which the gardener
said he would have thrown a discontented wife.

The caretaker was not in the house, but all the
doors were open. Mildred went from room to room.
The furniture was the same as it had been seventeen
years ago, the woman told Mildred  furniture of the
period of the First Empire, shabby, and with the air
of a house that is let to strangers year after year,
and in which nobody takes any interest. The clocks
on the mantelpieces were all silent, the vases were
all empty : everything had a dead look. Only the

view from the windows was beautiful with an inexhaustible
beauty.

Mildred lingered in the faded salon, looking at
everything with a melancholy interest. Those two
familiar figures were with her in the room. She pictured
them sitting there together, yet so far apart in the
bitter lack of sympathy  a wife, tormented by jealous
suspicions, no less agonising because they were
groundless; a husband, long-suffering, weary, with
his little stock of marital love worn out under slow
torture. She could see them as they might have
been in those bygone years. George Greswold's
dark, strong face, younger than she had ever known
it; for when he first came to her father's house
there had been threads of gray in his dark hair and
premature lines upon the brow which told of corroding
care. She could understand now how those
touches of gray had come in the thick wavy hair
hat clustered close on the broad, strongly-marked
brow.

Poor Fay ! poor, loving, impulsive Fay !

Child as she had been in those old days in Parchment
Street, Mildred had a vivid conception of her

young companion's character. She remembered the
quick temper, the sensitive self-esteem, which had
taken offence at the mere suggestion of slight ; she
remembered dark hours of brooding melancholy when
the girl had felt the sting of her isolated position,
had fancied herself a creature apart, neglected and
scorned by Mrs. Fausset and her butterfly visitors.
For Mildred she had been always overflowing with
love, and she had never doubted the sincerity of mildred's
affection ; but with all the rest of the household,
with every visitor who noticed her coldly, or
frankly ignored her, she was on the alert for insult
and offence. Remembering all this, Mildred could
fully realise Lady Lochinvar's account of that
unhappy union. A woman so constituted would
be satisfied with nothing less than a passionate, all-absorbing
love from the man she loved.

The rooms and the garden were haunted by those
mournful shades  two faces pale with pain. She,
too, had suffered those sharp stings of jealousy;
jealousy of a past love, jealousy of the dead; and she
knew how keener than all common anguish is that
agony of a woman's heart which yearns for sovereign

possession over past, present, and future in the life
of the man she loves.

The market-woman sat out in the sunshine on
the terrace, and waited while Mildred roamed about
the garden, picturing that vanished life at every step.
There was the herceau, the delight of a southern
garden, a long, green alley, arched with osiers, over
which the brown vine-branches made a network, open
to the sunlight and the blue sky now, while the vine
was still leafless, but in summer-time a place of
coolness and whispering leaves. There was the
fountain  or the place where a fountain had once
been, and a stone bench beside it. They had sat
there perhaps on sunny mornings, sat there and
talked of their future, full of hope. They could not
have been always unhappy. Fay must have had
her bright hours ; and then, no doubt, she was dear
to him, full of a strange fascination, a creature of
quick wit and vivid imagination, light and fire embodied
in a fragile earthly tenement.

The sun was nearing the dark edge of the promontory
when Mildred left the garden, the woman
accompanying her, waiting upon her footsteps.

sympathising with her pensive mood, with that instinctive
politeness of the southern, which is almost
as great a delight to the stranger from the hard,
cold, practical north, as the colour of the southern
sea, or the ever varying beauty of the hills.

Will you show me the place where the English
lady fell over the cliff?" Mildred asked ; and the
woman went with her along the winding road, and
then upward to a path along the crest of a cliff, a
cliff that seemed low on account of those holder
heights which rose above it, and which screened this
eastward-fronting shore of the little peninsula from
all the world of the west. The carriage-road wound
southward up to the higher ground, but Mildred and
her guide followed a footpath which had been trodden
on the long rank grass beside the cliff. The rosemary
bushes were full of flower : pale, cold gray
blossoms, as befitted the herb of death, and a great
yellow weed made patches of vivid colour among the
blue-gray stones scattered in the long grass on the
slope of the hill.

It was somewhere along this pathway, madame,"
said the woman. ''I cannot tell you the exact spot.

Some fishermen from Beaulieu picked her up," pointing
across the blue water of the bay to a semicircle
of yellow sand, with a few white houses scattered
along the curving road, and some boats lying keel
upward on the beach. '* She never spoke again.
She was dead when they found her there."

"Did they see her fall?"

No, madame."

*' And yet people have dared to call her husband
a murderer."

Ah, but, madame, it was the general opinion.
Was it not his guilty conscience that drove him mad ?
He came here once only after he left the madhouse,
wandered about the village for an hour or two, went
up to the cemetery and looked once  but once only
at the poor lady's grave, and then drove away as
if devils were hunting him. Who can doubt that
it was his hand that sent her to her death ?"

No one would believe it who knew him."

"Everybody at St. Jean believed it, even the
people who liked him best."

Mildred turned from her sick at heart. She
gave the woman some more money, and then with

briefest adieu walked back to the inn where she had
left the carriage, and where the horse was dozing
with his nose in a bag of dried locust fruit, while
his driver sprawled half asleep upon the rough stone
parapet between the inn and the bay.

Pamela received her aunt graciously on her return
to the hotel, and seemed in better spirits than she
had been since she left Pallanza.

Your Lady Lochinvar has written me the
sweetest little note, asking me to dine with her and
go to the opera afterwards," she said. " I feel sure
this must be your doing, aunt."

'* No, dear. I only told her that I had a very
nice niece moping at the hotel, and very tired of my
dismal company."

Tired of you? No, no, aunt. You know better
than that. I should no more grow tired of you than
I should of Box," intending to make the most flattering
comparison; "only he had made himself a part
of our lives at Pallanza, don't you know, and one
could not help missing him.* (The pronoun meant
Castellani, and not the dog.) '' I am glad I am

going to the opera after all, even if it does remind
me of him ; and it's awfully kind of Lady Lochinvar
to send her carriage for me. I only waited to see
you before I began to dress."

'' Go, dearest ; and take care to look your
prettiest."

And you won't mind dining alone ?"

"I shall be delighted to know you are enjoying
yourself''

The prospect of an evening's solitude was an
infinite relief to Mildred. She breathed more freely
when Pamela had gone dancing off to the lift, a fluffy,
feathery mass of whiteness, with hooded head and
rosy face peeping from a border of white fox. The
tall door of the salon closed upon her with a solemn
reverberation, and Mildred was alone with her own
thoughts, alone with the history of her husband's
past life, now that she had unravelled the tangled
skein and knew all.

She was face to face with the past, and how did
it seem in her eyes ? Was there no doubt, no agonising
fear that the man she had loved as a husband
might have slain the girl she had loved as a sister ?

All those people, those simple and disinterested
villagers, who had liked George Kansome well enough
for his own sake, had yet believed him guilty : they
who had been on the spot, and had had the best
opportunities for judging the case rightly.

Could she doubt him, she who had seen honour
and fine feeling in every act of his life ? She remembered
the dream  that terrible dream which
had occurred at intervals; sometimes once in a year;
sometimes oftener ; that awe-inspiring dream which
had shaken the dreamer's nerves as nothing but a
vision of horror could have shaken them, from which
he had awakened more dead than alive, completely
unnerved, cold drops upon his pallid brow, his hands
convulsed and icy, his eyes glassy as death itself.
The horror of that dream even to her, who beheld
its effect on the dreamer, was a horror not to be
forgotten.

Was it the dream of a murderer, acting his crime
over again in that dim world of sleep, living over
again the moment of his temptation and his fall ?
No, no ! Another might so interpret the vision,
but not his wife.

VOL. II. s

**I know him," she repeated to herself passionately
; " I know him. I know his noble heart. He
is incapable of one cruel impulse. He could not
have done such a deed. There is no possible state
of feeling, no moment of frenzy, in which he would
have been false to his character and his manhood."

And then she asked herself if Fay had not been
her sister, if there had not been that insurmountable
bar to her union with George Greswold, would her
knowledge of his first wife's fate, and the suspicion
that had darkened his name, have sufficed to part
them ? Could she, knowing what she now knew,
knowing that he had been so suspected, knowing
that it was beyond his power ever to prove his guiltlessness
 could she have gone though the rest of her
life with him, honouring him and trusting him as
she had done in the years that were gone ?

She told herself that she could have so trusted
him ; that she could have honoured and loved him
to the end, pitying him for those dark experiences,
but with faith unshaken.

*' A murderer and a madman," she said to herself,
repeating Castellani's calumny. " Murderer I

would never believe him ; and shall I honour him
less because that sensitive mind was plunged in
darkness by the horror of his wife's fate ?"

Pamela came home before midnight. Lady
Lochinvar had driven her to the door. She was in
high spirits, and charmed with her ladyship, and
thought her ladyship's nephew, Mr. Stuart, late of
a famous Highland regiment, a rather agreeable
person.

He is decidedly plain," said Pamela, ' and
looks about as intellectual as Sir Henry Montfort,
and he evidently doesn't care a jot for music ; but he
has very pleasant manners, and he told me a lot
about Monte Carlo. A brother officer of his, bronchial,
with a very nice wife, came to LadyLochinvar's
box in the evening, and she is going to call for me
tomorrow afternoon, to take me to the tennis-ground
at the Cercle de la Mediterranee, if you don't mind."

My dearest, you know I wish only to see you
happy and with nice people. I suppose this lady,
whose name you have not told me  "

Mrs. Murray. She is very Scotch, but quite

charming  nothing fast or rowdy about her  and
devoted to her invalid husband. He does not play
tennis, poor fellow, but he sits in the sun and looks
on, which is very nice for him."

Mrs. Murray made her appearance at two o'clock
next day, and Mildred was pleased to find that
Pamela had not exaggerated her merits. She was
very Scotch, and talked of Lady Lochinvar as *' a
purpose woman," with a Caledonian roll of the r in
purpose which emphasised the word in its adjectival
sense. She had very pretty simple manners, and
was altogether the kind of young matron with whom
a feather-headed girl might be trusted.

Directly Pamela and her new friend had departed
Mildred put on her bonnet, and went out on foot.
She had made certain inquiries through Albrecht,
and she knew the way she had to go upon the pilgrimage
on which she was bent, a pilgrimage of
sorrowful memory. There was a relief in being quite
alone upon the long parade between the palm-trees
and the sea, and to know that she was free from
notice and sympathy for the rest of the afternoon.

She walked to the Place Masses, and there

accepted the beseeching offers of one of the numerous
flymen, and took her seat in a light victoria behind
a horse which looked a little better fed than his neighbours.
She told the man to drive along the west
bank of the Pavillon, on the road to St. Andre.

Would not Madame go to St. Andre, and see the
wonderful grotto, and the petrifaction ?

No, Madame did not wish to go so far as St.
Andre. She would tell the driver where to stop.

The horse rattled off at a brisk pace. They are
no crawlers, those flys of the South. They drove
past the smart shops and hotels on the quay ; past
the shabby old inn where the diligences put up, a
hostelry with suggestions of the past, when the old
Italian town wsls not a winter rendezvous for all the
nations, the beaten track of Yankee and Cockney,
calicut and counter-jumper, Russian prince and
Hebrew capitalist, millionaire and adventurer. They
drove past the shabby purlieus of the town, workmen's
lodging-houses, sordid-looking shops, then an
orange-garden here and there within crumbling
plaster walls, and here and there a tavern in a shabby
garden. To the left of the river, on a sharp pinnacle

of hill, stood the Monastery of Cimies, with dome
and tower dominating the landscape. Further away,
on the other side of the stony torrent-bed, rose the
rugged chain of hills stretching away to Mentioned
and the Italian frontier, and high up against the blue
sky glimmered the white domes of the Observatory.
They came by and by to a spot where, by the side of
the broad high-road, there was a wall enclosing a
white dusty yard, and behind it a long white house
with many windows, bare and barren, staring blankly
at the dry bed of the torrent and the rugged brown
hills beyond. At each end of the long white building
there was a colonnade with iron bars, open to the sun
and the air, and as Mrs. Greswold's carriage drew near
a man's voice rolled out the opening bars of " Ah,
che la morte !" in a tremendous baritone. A cluster
of idlers had congregated about the open gate, to
stare and listen ; for the great white house was a
madhouse, and the grated colonnades right and left
of the long facade were the recreation-grounds of the
insane  of those worst patients who could not be
trusted to wander at their ease in the garden, or to dig
and delve upon the breezy hills towards St. Andre.

The singer was a fine-looking man, dressed in
loose garments of some white material, and with long
white gloves. He flung himself on to an upper bar
of the grating with the air of an athlete, and hung
upon the bars with his gloved hands, facing that
cluster of loafers as if they had been an audience ina
theatre, and singing with all the power of a herculean
physique. Mildred told her driver to stop at
the gate, and she sat listening while the madman
sang, in fitful snatches of a few bars at a time, but
with never a false note.

That cage, and the patients pacing up and down,
or hanging on to the bars, or standing staring at the
little crowd round the gate, moved her to deepest pity,
touched her with keenest pain. He had been here,
her beloved, in that brief interval of darkest night.
She recalled how in one of his awakenings from that
torturing dream he had spoken words of strange

meaning or of no meaning, as they had seemed to

her then.

The cage  the cage again !" he had cried
in an agonised voice; "iron bars  like a wild
beast !"

These words had been an enigma to her then
She saw the answer to the riddle here.

She sat for some time watching that sad spectacle,
hearing those broken snatches of song, with intervals
of silence, or sometimes a wild peal of laughter.

The loiterers were full of speculations and assertions.
The porter at the gate answered some questions,
turned a deaf ear to others.

The singer was a Spanish nobleman who had lost
a fortune at Monte Carlo the night before, and had
been brought here bound hand and foot at early
morning. He had tried to kill himself, and now he
imagined himself a famous singer, and that the
barred colonnade was the stage of the Grand Opera
at Paris.

'she'll soon be all right again," said the porter
with a careless shrug ; " those violent cases mend
quickly."

"But he won't get his money back again, poor
devil," said one of the loiterers, a flyman whose
vehicle was standing by the wall, waiting for a
customer. " Hard to recover his senses and find
himself without a sou."

0, he has rich friends, no don't. Look at his
white kid gloves. He is young and handsome, and
he has a splendid voice. Somebody will take care of
him. Do you see that old woman sitting over therein
the garden ? You would not think there was
anything amiss with her, would you ? No more
there is, only she thinks she is the Blessed Virgin.
She has been here five-and-thirty years. Nobody
pities her  nobody inquires about her. My father
remembers her when she was a handsome young
woman at a flower-shop on the Quai Masses, one of
the merriest girls in Nice. Somebody told her she was
neglecting her soul and going to hell. This set her
thinking too much. She used to be at the Cathedral
all day, and at confession as often as the priest
would hear her. She neglected her shop, and quarrelled
with her mother and sisters. She said she
had a vocation ; and then one fine day she walked to
the Cathedral in a white veil, with a bunch of lilies
in her hand, and she told all the people she met that
they ought to kneel before her and make the sign of
the cross, for she was the Mother of God. Three
days afterwards her people brought her here. She

would neither eat nor drink, and she never closed her
eyes, or left off talking about her glorious mission,
which was to work the redemption of all the women
upon earth."

"Drive on to the doctor's house," Mildred said
presently ; and the fly went on a few hundred yards,
and then drew up at the door of a private house,
which marked the boundary of the asylum garden.

Mrs. Greswold had inquired the name of the
doctor of longest experience in the asylum, and she
had been referred to Monsieur Leroy, the inhabitant
of this house, where the flyman informed her some
of the more wealthy patients were lodged. She had
come prepared with a little note requesting the favour
of an interview, and enclosing her card, with the address
of Enderby Manor as well as her hotel in Nice.
The English manor and the Hotel Westminster indicated
at least respectability in the applicant ; and
Monsieur Leroy's reception was both prompt and
courteous.

He was a clever-looking man, about sixty years
of age, with a fine benevolent head, and an attentive
eye, as of one always on the alert. He had spent

five-and-thirty of his sixty years in the society of the
deranged, and had devoted all his intellectual power
to the study of mental disease.

After briefest preliminary courtesies, Mildred
explained the purpose of her visit.

I am anxious to learn anything you can tell
me about a patient who was under your care  or, at
least, in this establishment  seventeen years ago,
and in whom I am deeply interested," she said.

Seventeen years is a long time, madame, but I
have a good memory, and I keep notes of all my
cases. I may be able to satisfy your curiosity in
some measure. What was the name of this patient?"

"He was an Englishman called Ransome 
George Ransome. He was placed here under peculiar
circumstances."

Cojyo di Banco I I should say they were
peculiar, very peculiar circumstances !" exclaimed
the doctor. " Do you know, madame, that Mr.
Ransome came here as a suspected murderer ? He
came straight from the gaol at Yillefranche, where
he had been detained on the suspicion of having
killed his wife."

There was not one jot of evidence to support
such a charge. I know all the circumstances.
Surely, sir, you, who must have a wide knowledge
of human nature, did not think him guilty ?"

I hardly made up my mind upon that point,
even after I had seen him almost every day for six
months ; but there is one thing I do know about
this unhappy gentleman : his lunacy was no assumption,
put on to save him from the consequences of a
crime. He was a man of noble intellect, large
brain-power, and for the time being his reason was
totally obscured."

To what cause did you attribute the attack ?"

** A long period of worry, nerves completely shattered,
and finally the shock of that catastrophe on
the cliff. Whether his hand pushed her to her
death, or the woman flung her life away, the shock
was too much for Mr. Ransome's weakened and worried
brain. All the indications of his malady, from
the most violent stages to the gradual progress of
recovery, pointed to the same conclusion. The history
of the case revealed its cause and its earlier
phases : an unhappy marriage, a jealous wife.

patience and forbearance on his part, until patience
degenerated into despair, the dull apathy of a wearied
intellect. All that is easy to understand."

You pitied him, then, monsieur?"

Madame, I pity all my patients ; but I found in
Mr. Ransome a man of exceptional characteristics,
and his case interested me deeply."

You would not have been interested had you
believed him guilty?"

"Pardon me, madame, crime is full of interest
for the pathologist. The idea that this gentleman
might have spurned his wife from him in a
moment of aberration would not have lessened my
interest in his mental condition. But although I
have never made up my mind upon the question of
his guilt or innocence, I am bound to tell you, since
you seem even painfully interested in his history,
that his conduct after his recovery indicated an open
and generous nature, a mind of peculiar refinement,
and a great deal of chivalrous feeling. I had many
conversations with him during the period of returning
reason, and I formed a high opinion of his moral
character."

Did other people think him guilty  the people
he had known in Nice, for instance ?"

I fancy there were very few who thought much
about him," answered the doctor. * Luckily for
him and his belongings  whoever they might be 
he had dropped out of society for some time before
the catastrophe, and he had never been a person of
importance in Nice. He had not occupied a villa,
or given parties. He lived with his wife at an
hotel, and the man who lives at an hotel counts for
very little on the Kiviera. He is only a casual visitor,
who may come and go as he pleases. His movements
 unless he has rank or fashion or inordinate
wealth to recommend him  excite no interest. He is
not a personage. Hence there was very little talk
about the lamentable end of Mr. Kansome's married
life. There were hardly half-a-dozen paragraphs
in our local papers, all told ; and I doubt if those
were quoted in the Figaro or Galignani. My patient
might congratulate himself upon his obscurity."

Did no one from England visit him during his
confinement here ?"

"No one. The local authorities looked after

bis interests so far as to take care of the ready
money which was found in his house, and which
sufficed to pay for the poor lady's funeral and for
my patient's expenses, leaving a balance to be
handed over to him on his recovery. From the hour
he left these gates I never heard from him or of him
again; but every new year has brought me an anonymous
gift from London, such a gift as only a person
of refined taste would choose, and I have attributed
those annual greetings to Mr. George Ransome."

** It would be only like him to remember past
kindness."

You know him well, madame ?"

Very well ; so well as to be able to answer
with my life for his being incapable of the crime of
which even you, who saw so much of him, hesitate
to acquit him."

"It is my misfortune, madame, to have seen the
darker sides of the human mind, and to know that
in the whitest life there may be one black spot 
one moment of sin which testifies a lifetime of
virtue. However, it is possible that your judgment
is right in this particular case. Be assured I should

be glad to think so, and glad to know that Mr.
Kansome's after days have been all sunshine."

A sigh was Mildred's only answer. Monsieur
Leroy saw tears in her eyes, and asked no more.
He was shrewd enough to guess her connection
with his former patient  a second wife, no doubt.
No one but a wife would be so intensely interested.

If there is anything I can do for you, or for
my old patient  " he began, seeing that his visitor
lingered.

*' 0, no, there is nothing  except if you would
let me see the rooms in which he lived."

*' Assuredly. It is a melancholy pleasure, at
best, to recall the sorrows we have outlived, but the
association will be less painful in your case since the
friend in whom you are interested was so speedily
and so thoroughly restored to mental health. I take
it that he has never had a relapse ?"

Never, thank God !"

It was not likely, from the history of the case."

He led the way across a vestibule and up-stairs
to the second floor, where he showed Mrs. Greswold
two airy rooms, sitting-room and bedroom communi-eating,

overlooking the valley towards Cimies, with
the white walled convent on the crest of the hill,
and the white temples of the dead clustering near it ;
cross and column, Athenian pediment and Italian
cupola, dazzling white against the cloudless blue.
The rooms were neatly furnished, and there was
every appearance of comfort ; no suggestion of Bedlam,
padded walls, or strait-waistcoats.

Had he these rooms all the time ?" asked
Mildred.

Not all the time. He was somewhat difficult
to deal with during the first few weeks, and he was
in the main building, under the care of one of my
subordinates, till improvement began. By that
time I had grown interested in his case, and took
him into my own house."

Pray let me see the rooms he occupied at first,
monsieur ; I want to know all. I want to be able
to understand what his life was like in that dark
dream."

She knew now what his own dream meant.

Monsieur Leroy indulged her whim. He took

VOL. Uo * T

her across the dusty garden to the great white house
a house of many windows and long corridors, airy
bare, hopeless-looking, as it seemed to that sad
visitor. She saw the two iron-barred enclosures, and
the restless creatures roaming about them, clinging
to the bars, climbing like monkeys from perch to
perch, hanging from the trapeze. The Spaniard had
left off singing.

She was shown George Kansome's room, which
was empty. The bare whitewashed walls chilled her
as if she had gone into an ice-vault. Here on
everything there was the stamp of a State prison 
iron bars, white walls, a deadly monotony. She was
glad to escape into the open air again, but not until
she had knelt for some minutes beside the narrow
bed upon which George Kansome had lain seventeen
years ago, and thanked God for his restoration of
reason, and prayed that his declining days might be
blessed. She prayed for him, to whom she might
nevermore be the source of happiness, she who
until so lately had been his nearest and dearest
upon earth.

A law which she recognised as duty had risen
up between them, and both must go down to the
grave in sadness rather than that law should be
broken.

END OF VOL. II.

LOKDOJf :
Robson AXD SON'S, LIMITED, rRiyiERS, Pancreas ROAD, N.'W.

Theft mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

  AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

ma

L161 O-1096

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

Of 

V.6

% H0btl

BY THE AUTHOR OF

LADY AUDLEY'S SECRET," 'VIXEN.
Ishmael," " MOHAWKS;

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. in.

LONDON
SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, AND CO.

Stationers' HALL COURT

[U rima regarded]



CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

ATROPOS; OR THAT WHICH MUST BE.

CHAP.

I. A Wrecked Life
II. In the Morning of Life .

III. The Rift in the Lute

IV. Darkness .
V. The Grave on the Hill

VI. Pamela changes her Mind
VII. As THE Sands run Down .
VIII. "How should I greet Thee?"

IX. LiTERA SCRIPTA MANET

X. Marked by Fate
XI. Like a Tale that is Told .

PAGE
















ATROPOS ; OR THAT WHICH MUST BE,

YOL. III.

A WRECKED LIFE.

Monsieur Leroy was interested in his visitor, and
in nowise hastened her departure. He led her
through the garden of the asylum, anxious that she
should see that sad life of the shattered mind in its
milder aspect. The quieter patients were allowed to
amuse themselves at liberty in the garden, and here
Mildred saw the woman who fancied herself the
Blessed Virgin, and who sat apart from the rest,
with a crown of withered anemones upon her iron-gray
locks.

The doctor stopped to talk to her in the Ni9ois
language, describing her hallucination to Mildred in
his broken English between whiles.

** She is one of my oldest cases, and mild as a
lamb," he said. " She is what superstition had
made her. She might have been a happy wife as a
mother but for that fatal influence. Ah, here comes

a lady of a very different temper, and not half so
easy a subject !"

A woman of about sixty advanced towards them
along the dusty gravel path between the trampled
grass and the dust-whitened orange-trees, a woman
who carried her head and shoulders with the pride
of an empress, and who looked about her with
disant eyes, fanning herself with a large Japanese
paper fan as she came along, a fan of vivid scarlet
and cheap gilt paper, which seemed to intensify the
brightness of her great black eyes, as she waved it
to and fro before her haggard face : a woman who
must once have been beautiful.

Would you believe that lady was prima donna
at La Scala nearly forty years ago ?" asked the
doctor, as he and Mildred stood beside the path,
watching that strange figure, with its theatrical
dignity.

The massive plaits of grizzled black hair were
wound, coronet-wise, about the woman's head. Her
rusty black velvet gown trailed in the dust, threadbare
long ago, almost in tatters to-day : a gown of
a strange fashion, which had been worn upon the

stage  Leonora's or Lucrezia's gown, perhaps, once
upon a time.

At sight of the physician she stopped suddenly,
and made him a sweeping curtsy, with all the
exaggerated grace of the theatre.

Do you know if they open this month at the
Scala ?" she asked, in Italian.

"Indeed, my dear, I have heard nothing of their
doings."

They might have begun their season with the
new year," she said, with a dictatorial air. " They
always did in my time. Of course you know that
they have tried to engage me again. They wanted
me for Mina, but I had to remind them that I am
not a light soprano. "mien I reappear it shall be as
Lucrezia Borgia. There I stand on my own ground.
No one can touch me there."

She sang the opening bars of Lucrezia's first
scena. The once glorious voice was rough and discordant,
but there was power in the tones even yet,
and real dramatic fire in the midst of exaggeration.
Suddenly while she was singing she caught the
expression of Mildred's face watching her, and she

stopped at a breath, and grasped the stranger by
both hands with an excited air.

That moTes you, does it not ?" she exclaimed.
"You have a soul for music. I can see that in
your face. I should like to know more of you.
Come and see me whenever you like, and I will sing
to you. The doctor lets me use his piano sometimes,
when he is in a good humour."

Say rather when you are reasonable, my good
Maria," said Monsieur Leroy, laying a fatherly hand
upon her shoulder ; *' there are days when you are
not to be trusted."

I am to be trusted to-day. Let me come to
your room and sing to her," pointing to Mildred
with her fan. " I like her face. She has the eyes
and lips that console. Her husband is lucky to
have such a wife. Let me sing to her. I want her
to understand what kind of woman I am."

Would it bore you too much to indulge her,
madame ?" asked the doctor in an undertone. " She
is a strange creature, and it will wound her if you
refuse. She does not often take a fancy to anyone

; but she frequently takes dislikes, and those
are violent."

I shall be very happy to hear her," answered
Mildred. " I am in no hurry to return to Nice."

The doctor led the way back to his house, the
singer talking to Mildred with an excited air as they
went, talking of the day when she was first soprano
at Milan.

"Everybody envied me my success," she said.
There were those who said I owed everything to
him, that he made my voice and my style. Lies,
madame, black and bitter lies. I won all the prizes
at the Conservatoire. He was one master among
many. I owed him nothing  nothing  nothing !"

She reiterated the word with acrid emphasis,
and an angry furl of her fan.

Ah, now you are beginning the old strain !"
said the doctor, with a good-humoured shrug of his
shoulders. " If this goes on there shall be no
piano for you to-day. I will have no grievances ;
grievances are the bane of social intercourse. If
you come to my salon it must be to sing, not to
reopen old sores. We all have our wounds as

well as you, signorina, but we keep them covered
up.

I am dumb," said the singer meekly.

They went into the doctor's private sitting-room.
Three sides of the room were lined with books,
chiefly of a professional or scientific character. A
cottage piano stood in a recess by the fireplace.
The woman flew to the instrument with a rapturous
eagerness, and began to play. Her hands were
faintly tremulous with excitement, but her touch
was that of a master as she played the symphony
to the finale of "La Cenerentola."

Has she no piano in her own room ?" asked
Mildred in a whisper.

"No, poor soul. She is one of our pauper
patients. The State provides for her, but it does
not give her a private room or a piano. I let her
come here two or three times a week for an hour or
so, when she is reasonable."

Mildred wondered if it would be possible for her,
as a stranger, to provide a room and a piano for
this friendless enthusiast. She would have been
glad out of her abundance to have lightened a

suffering sister's fate, and she determined to make
the proposition to the doctor.

The singer played snatches of familiar music 
Rossini, Donizetti, Bellini  operatic airs which Mildred
knew by heart. She wandered from one scena
to another, and her voice, though it had lost its
sweetness and sustaining power, was still brilliantly
flexible. She sang with a rapturous unconsciousness
of her audience, Mildred and the doctor
sitting quietly at each side of the hearth, where a
single pine log smouldered on the iron dogs above
a heap of white ashes.

Presently the music changed to a gayer, lighter
strain, and she began an airy cavatina, all coquetry
and grace. That joyous melody was curiously
familiar to Mildred's ear.

Where did I hear that music ?" she said aloud.
"It seems as if it were only the other day, and
yet it is nearly two years since I was at the opera."

The singer left the cavatina unfinished, and
wandered into another melody.

"Ah, I know now!" exclaimed Mildred; "that
is Paolo Castellani's music !"

THE FATAL THREE,

The woman started up from the piano as if the
name had wounded her.

"Paolo Castellani !" she cried. *' What do yon
know of Paolo Castellani ?"

Dr. Leroy went over to her, and laid his hand
upon her shoulder heavily.

Now we are in for a scene'* he muttered to
Mildred. " You have mentioned a most unlucky
name."

What has she to do with Signer Castellani ?"

*' He was her cousin. He trained her for the
stage, and she was the original in several of his
operas. She was his slave, his creature, and lived
only to please him. I suppose she expected him to
marry her, poor soul ; but he knew better than that.
He contrived to fascinate a French girl, a consumptive,
who was travelling in Italy for her health,
with a wealthy father. He married the Frenchwoman
; and I believe that marriage broke Maria's
heart."

The singer had seated herself at the piano again,
and was playing with rapid and brilliant finger,
running up and down the keys in wild excitement.

Mildred and the physician were standing by the
window, talking in lowered voices, unheeded by
Maria Castellani.

"Was it that event which wrecked her mind?"
asked Mildred, deeply interested.

No, it was some years afterwards that her
brain gave way. She had a brilliant career before
her at the time of Castellani's desertion ; and she
bore the blow with the courage of a Roman. So
long as her voice lasted, and the public were constant
to her, she contrived to bear up against that burning
sense of wrong which has been the distinguishing
note of her mind ever since she came here. But the
first breath of failure froze her. She felt her voice
decaying while she was comparatively a young
woman. Her glass told her that she was losing her
beauty, that she was beginning to look old and haggard.
Her managers told her more. They gave
her the cold shoulder, and put newer singers above
her head. Then despair took hold of her ; she
became gloomy and irritable, difficult and capricious
in her dealings with her fellow-artists ; and then
came the end, and she was brought here. She had

saved no money. She had been reckless even beyond
the habits of her profession. She was friendless.
There was nobody interested in her fate  "

Not even Signor Castellani ?"

Castellani  Paolo Castellani ? Pas si bete.
The man was a compound of selfishness and treachery.
She was not likely to get pity from him.
The very fact that he had used her badly made her
loathsome to him. I doubt if he ever inquired
what became of her. If any one had asked him about
her, he would have said that she had dropped
through  a worn-out voice, a faded beauty  que
voulez'vous V

She had no other friends  no ties ?"

"None. She was an orphan at twelve years
old, without a sou. Castellani paid for her education,
and traded upon her talent. He trained her
to sing in his own operas, and in that light, fanciful
music she was at her best ; though it is her delusion
now that she excelled in the grand style. I
believe he absorbed the greater part of her earnings,
until they quarrelled. Some time after his marriage
there was a kind of reconciliation between them.

She appeared in a new opera  his last and worst.
Her voice was going, his talent had begun to fail.
It was the beginning of the end."

*' Has Signor Castellani's son shown no interest
in this poor creature's fate ?"

"No; the son lives in England, I believe, for
the most part. I doubt if he knows anything about
Maria."

The singer had reverted to that familiar music.
She sang the first part of an aria, a melody disguised
with over much fioritura, light, graceful,
unmeaning.

That is in his last opera," she said, rising
from the piano, with a more rational air. " The
opera was almost a failure ; but I was applauded to
the echo. His genius had forsaken him. Follies,
follies, falsehoods, crimes. He could not be true to
any one or anything. He was as false to his wife ashe
had been false to me, and to his proud young
English signorina ; ah, well ! who can doubt that he
lied to her r

She fell into a meditative mood, standing by the
piano, touching a note now and then.

Young and handsome and rich. Would she
have accepted degradation with open eyes '? No, no,
no. He lied to her as he had lied to me. He was
made up of lies."

Her eyes grew troubled, and her lips worked convulsively.
Again the doctor laid his strong broad
hand upon her shoulder.

*' Come, Maria," he said in Italian ; " enough
for to-day. Madame has been pleased with your
singing."

Yes, indeed, signora. You have a noble voice.
I should be very glad if I could do anything to be of
use to you ; if I could contribute to your comfort in
any way."

0, Maria is happy enough with us, I hope,"
said the doctor cheerily. "We are all fond of her
when she is reasonable. But it is time she went to
her dinner. A rivederci, signora"

Maria accepted her dismissal with a good grace,
saluted Mildred and the doctor with her stage curtsy,
and withdrew. One side of Monsieur Leroy's house
opened into the garden, the other into a courtyard
adjoining the high-road.

Poor soul ! I should be so glad to pay for a
piano and a private sitting-room for her, if I might
be allowed to do so," said Mildred, when the singer
was gone.

** You are too generous, madame; but I doubt if
it would be good for her to accept your bounty. She
enjoys the occasional use of my piano intensely. If
she had one always at her command, she would give
up her life to music, which exercises too strong an
influence upon her disordered brain to be indulged
in ad lihitwn. Nor would a private apartment be an
advantage in her case. She is too much given to
brooding over past griefs; and the society of her
fellow sufferers, the friction and movement of the
public life, are good for her."

** What did she mean by her talk of an English
girl  some story of wrong-doing? Was it all
imaginary ?"

I believe there was some scandal at Milan ;
some flirtation, or possibly an intrigue, between
Castellani and one of his English pupils ; but I
never heard the details. Maria's jealousy would be
nkely to exaggerate the circumstances ; for I believe

THE FATAL THREE.

she adored her cousin to the last, long after she
knew that he had never cared for her, except as an
element in his success."

Mildred took leave of the doctor, after thanking
him for his politeness. She left a handful of gold
for the benefit of the poor patients, and left Dr.
Leroy under the impression that she was one of the
sweetest women he had ever met. Her pensive
beauty, her low and musical voice, the clear and
resolute purpose of every word and look, were in his
mind indications of the perfection of womanhood.

"It is not often that Nature achieves such
excellence," mused the doctor. "It is a pity that
perfection should be short-lived ; yet I cannot prognosticate
length of years for this lady."

Pamela's spirits were decidedly improving. She
talked all dinner-time, and gave a graphic description
of her afternoon in the tennis-court behind the
Cercle de la Mediterranee.

I am to see the club-house some morning
before the members begin to arrive," she said. " It
is a perfectly charming club. There is a theatre.

which serves as a ballroom on grand occasions.
There is to be a dance next week ; and Lady Locking
will chaperon me, if you don't mind."

I shall be most grateful to Lady Lochinvar,
dear. Believe me, if I am a hermit, I don't want
to keep you in melancholy seclusion. I am very
glad for you to have pleasant friends."

Mrs. Murray is delightful. She begged me to
call her Jessie. She is going to take me for a drive
before lunch tomorrow, and we are to do some
shopping in the afternoon. The shops here are
simply lovely."

Almost as nice as Brighton ?"

"Better. They have more chic ; and I am told
they are twice as dear."

Was Mr. Stuart at the tennis-court ?"

*' Yes, he plays there every afternoon when he
is not at Monte Carlo."

*' That does not sound like a very useful existence."


"Perhaps you sill say he is an adventurer,"
exclaimed Pamela, with a flash of temper ; and then
repenting in a moment, she added : "I beg your

VOL. III. c

pardon, aunt ; but you are really wrong about Mr.
Stuart. He looks after Lady Lochinvar's estate.
He is invaluable to her."

'* But lie cannot do much for the estate when
he is playing tennis here or gambling at Monte
Carlo."

0, but he does. He answers no end of letters
every morning. Lady Lochinvar says he is a most
wonderful young man. He attends to her house
accounts here. I am afraid she would be very extravagant
if she were not well looked after. She has
no idea of business. Mr. Stuart has even to manage
her dressmakers."

** Then one may suppose he is really useful 
even at Nice. Has he any means of his own, or is
he entirely dependent on his aunt?"

0, he has an income of his own  a modest
income, Mrs. Murray says, hardly enough for him
to get along easily in a cavalry regiment, but quite
enough for him as a civilian ; and his aunt will
leave him everything. His expectations are splendid."


Well, Pamela, I will not call him an adventurer,

and I shall be pleased to make his acquaintance,
if he will call upon me."

"He is dying to know you. May Mrs. Murray
bring him to tea tomorrow afternoon ?'*

With pleasure."

IN THE MORNING OF LIFE.

George Greswold succumbed to Fate. He had
done all he could do in the way of resistance. He
had appealed against his wife's decision ; he had set
love against principle or prejudice, and principle, as
Mildred understood it, had been too strong for love ;
so there was nothing left for the forsaken husband
but submission. He went back to the home in which
he had once been happy, and he sat down amidst
the ruins of his domestic life ; he sat by his desolate
hearth through the long dull wintry months, and he
made no effort to bring brightness or variety into his
existence. He made no stand against unmerited
misfortune.

"I am too old to forget," he told himself; "that
lesson can only be learnt in youth."

A young man might have gone out as a wanderer
 might have sought excitement and distraction!

amidst strange cities and strange races of men ;
might have found forgetfulness in danger and hardship,
the perils of unexplored deserts, the hazards
of untrodden mountains, the hairbreadth escapes of
savage life, pestilence, famine, warfare. George
Greswold felt no inclination for any such adventure.
The mainspring of life had snapped, and he admitted
to himself that he was a broken man.

He sat by the hearth in his gloomy library day
after day, and night after night, until the small
hours. Sometimes he took his gun in the early
morning, and went out with a leash of dogs for an
hour or two of solitary shooting among his own
covers. He tramped his copses in all weathers and
at all [hours, but he rarely went outside his own
domain ; nor did he ever visit his cottagers or small
tenantry, with whom he had been once so familiar a
friend. All interest in his estate had gone from
him after his daughter's death. He left everything
to the new steward, who was happily both competent
and honest.

His books were his only friends. Those studious
habits acquired years before, when he was comparatively

a poor man, stood by him now. His one
distraction, his only solace, was found in the contents
of those capacious bookshelves, three-fourths
of which were filled with volumes of his own selection,
the gradual accumulation of his sixteen years
of ownership. His grandfather's library, which constituted
the remaining fourth, consisted of those
admirable standard works, in the largest possible
number of volumes, which formed an item in the
furniture of a respectable house during the last
century, and which, from the stiffness of their bindings
and the unblemished appearance of their paper
and print, would seem to have enjoyed an existence
of dignified retirement from the day they left the
bookseller's shop.

But for those long tramps in the wintry copses,
where holly and ivy showed brightly green amidst
leafless chestnuts and hazels  but for those communing
with the intellect of past and present in
the long still winter evenings, George Greswold's
brain must have given way under the burden of an
undeserved sorrow. As it was, he contrived to live
on, peacefully, and even with an air of contentment.

His servants surprised him in no paroxysm of grief.
He startled them with no strange exclamations. His
manner gave no cause for alarm. He accepted his
lot in silence and submission. His days were ordered
with a simple regularity, so far as the service of the
house went. His valet and butler agreed that he
was in all things an admirable master.

The idea in the household was that Mrs. Griswold
had "taken to religion." That seemed the
only possible explanation for a parting which had
been preceded by no domestic storms, for which
there was no apparent cause in the conduct of the
husband. That idea of the wife having discovered
an intrigue of her husband's, which Louisa had
discussed in the housekeeper's room at Brighton,
was no longer entertained in the servants'-hall at
Enderby.

"If there had been anything of that kind, something
would have come out by this time," said the
butler, who had a profound belief in the ultimate
coming out " of all social mysteries.

George Greswold was not kept in ignorance of
his wife's movements. Pamela bad been shrewd

enough to divine that her uncle would be glad to
hear from her in order to hear of Mildred, and she
had written to him from time to time, giving him a
graphic account of her own and her aunt's existence.
There had been only one suppression. The young
lady had not once alluded to Castellani's share in
their winter life at Pallanza. She had a horror of
arousing that dragon of suspicion which she knew to
lurk in the minds of all uncles with reference to all
agreeable young men. George Greswold had not
heard from his niece for more than a fortnight, when
there came a letter, written the day after Mildred's
visit to the madhouse, and full of praises of Lady
Lochinvar and the climate of Nice. That letter was
the greatest shock that Greswold had received since
his wife had left him, for it told him that she was
in a place where she could scarcely fail to discover
all the details of his wretched story. He had kept
it locked from her, he had shut himself behind a
wall of iron, he had kept a silence as of the grave ;
and now she from whom he had prayed that his fatal
story might be for ever hidden was certain to learn
the worst.



Aunt went to lunch with Lady Lochinvar the
day after our arrival," wrote Pamela. ** She spent
a long morning with her, and then went for a drive
somewhere in the environs, and was out till nearly
dinner-time. She looked so white and fagged when
she came back, poor dear, and I am sure she had
done too much for one day. Lady Lochinvar asked
me to dinner, and took me to the new Opera-house,
which is lovely. Her nephew was with us  rather
plain, and with no taste for music (he said he preferred
Madame Ingot to Lohengrin), but enormously
clever, I am told, in a solid, practical kind of way."

Und so welter, for three more pages.

Mildred had been with Lady Lochinvar  with
Lady Lochinvar, who knew all ; who had seen him
and his wife together ; had received them both asher
friends ; had been confided in, he knew, by that
fond, jealous wife ; made the recipient of tearful
doubts and hysterical accusations. Vivien had owned
as much to him.

She had been with Lady Lochinvar, who must
know the history of his wife's death and the dreadful
charge brought against him ; who must know that

he had been an inmate of the great white barrack on
the road to St. Andre ; who in all probability thought
him guilty of murder. All the barriers had fallen
now ; all the floodgates had opened. He saw himself
hateful, monstrous, inhuman, in the eyes of the
woman he adored.

** She loved her sister with an inextinguishable
love," he thought, " and she sees me now as her
sister's murderer  the cold-blooded, cruel husband,
who made his wife's existence miserable, and ended
by killing her in a paroxysm of brutal rage : that is
the kind of monster I must seem in my Mildred's
eyes. She will look back upon my stubborn silence,
my gloomy reserve, and she will see all the indications
of guilt. My own conduct will condemn
me."

As he sat by his solitary hearth in the cold
March evening, the large reading-lamp making a
circle of light amidst the gloom, George Greswold's
mind travelled over the days of his youth, and the
period of that fatal marriage which had blighted
him in the monnng of his life, which blighted him
now in life's meridian, when, but for this dark

influence, all the elements of happiness were in his
hand.

He looked back to the morning of life, and saw
himself full of ambitious plans and aspiring dreams,
well content to be the younger son, to whom it was
given to make his own position in the world, scorning
the idle days of a fox-hunting squire, resolute to
become an influence for good among his fellow-men.
He had never envied his brother the inheritance of
the soil ; he had thought but little of his own promised
inheritance of Enderby.

Unhappily that question of the succession to the
Enderby estate had been a sore point with Squire
Ransome. He adored his elder son, who was like
him in character and person, and he cared very little
for George, whom he considered a bookish and unsympathetic
individual ; a young man who hardly
cared whether there were few or many foxes in the
district, whether the young partridges throve, or
perished by foul weather or epidemic disease  a
young man who took no interest in the things that
filled the lives of other people. In a word, George
was not a sportsman ; and that deficiency made him

an alien to his father's race. There had never been
a Kansome who was not 'sporting" to the core of
his heart until the appearance of this pragmatical
Oxonian.

Without being in any manner scientific or a
student of evolution, Mr. Kansome had a fixed belief
in heredity. It was the duty of the son to resemble
the father ; and a son who was in all his tastes and
inclinations a distinct variety stamped himself as
undutiful.

"I don't suppose the fellow can help it," said
Mr. Kansome testily; "but there's hardly a remark
he makes which doesn't act upon my nerves like a
nutmeg-grater."

Nobody would have given the Squire credit for
possessing very sensitive nerves, but everybody knew
he had a temper, and a temper which occasionally
showed itself in violent outbreaks  the kind of
temper which will dismiss a household at one fell
swoop, send a stud of horses to Tattersall's on the
spur of the moment, tear up a lease on the point
of signature, or turn a son out of doors.

The knowledge that this unsportsmanlike son



of his would inherit the fine estate of Enderby was
a constant source of vexation to Squire Ransome of
Mapledown. The dream of his life was that Maple-down
and Enderby should be united in the possession
of his son Randolph. The two properties
would have made Randolph rich enough to hope fora
peerage, and that idea of a possible peerage dazzled
the Tory squire. His family had done the State
some service ; had sat for important boroughs ; had
squandered much money upon contested elections ;
had been staunch in times of change and difficulty.
There was no reason why a Ransome should not
ascend to the Upper House, in these days when
peerage are bestowed so much more freely than in
the time of Pitt and Fox. The two estates would
have made an important property under one ownership;
divided, they were only respectable. And
what the Squire most keenly felt was the fact that
Enderby was by far the finer property, and that his
younger son must ultimately be a much richer man
than his brother. The Sussex estate had dwindled
considerably in those glorious days of contested elections
and party feeling ; the Hampshire estate was

intact. Mr. Ransome could not forgive this wife for
her determination that the younger son should be
her heir. He always shuffled uneasily upon his seat
in the old family pew when the 27th chapter of
Genesis was read in the Sunday morning service.
He compared his wife to Rebecca. He asked the
Vicar at luncheon on one of those Sundays what he
thought of the conduct of Rebecca and Jacob in that
very shady transaction, and the Vicar replied in the
orthodox fashion, favouring Jacob just as Rebecca
had favoured him.

"I can't understand it," exclaimed the Squire
testily; ** the whole business is against my idea of
honour and honesty. I wouldn't have such a fellow
as Jacob for my steward if he were the cleverest man
in Sussex. And look you here. Vicar. If Jacob was
right, and knew he was right, why the deuce was he
so frightened the first time he met Esau after that
ugly business ? Take my word for it, Jacob was a
sneak, and Providence punished him rightly with a
desolate old age and a quarrelsome family."

The Vicar looked down at his plate, sighed gently,
and held his peace.

The time came when the growing feeling of aversion
on the father's part showed itself in outrage and
insult which the son could not endure. George
remonstrated against certain acts of injustice in the
management of the estate. He pleaded the cause of
tenant against landlord  a dire offence in the eyes
of the Tory Squire. There came an open rupture ;
and it was impossible for the younger son to remain
any longer under the father's roof. His mother
loved him devotedly, but she felt that it was better
for him to go ; and so it was settled, in loving consultation
between mother and son, that he should
carry out a long-cherished wish of his Oxford days,
and explore all that was historical and interesting
in Southern Europe, seeing men and cities in a
leisurely way, and devoting himself to literature in
the meantime. He had already written for some of
the high-class magazines ; and he felt that it was in
him to do well as a writer of the serious order 
critic, essayist, and thinker.

His mother gave him three hundred a year,
which, for a young man of his simple habits, was
ample. He told himself that he should be able to

earn as much again by his pen ; and so, after a
farewell of decent friendliness to his father and his
brother Randolph, and tenderest parting with his
mother, he set out upon his pilgrimage, a free
agent, with the world all before him. He explored
Greece  dwelling fondly upon all the old traditions,
the old histories. He made the acquaintance of Dr.
Schliemann, and entered heart and soul into that
gentleman's views. This occupied him more thana
year, for those scenes exercised a potent fascination
upon a mind to which Greek literature was the
supreme delight. He spent a month at Constantinople,
and a winter in Corfu and Cyprus ; he
devoted a summer to Switzerland, and did a little
mountaineering ; and during all his wanderings he
contrived to give a considerable portion of his time
to literature.

It was after his Swiss travels that he went to
Italy, and established himself in Florence for a
quiet winter. He hired an apartment on a fourth
floor of a palace overlooking the Arno, and here, for
the first time since he had left England, he went a
little into general society. His mother had sent



him letters of introduction to old friends of her own,
English and Florentine ; he was young, handsome,
and a gentleman, and he was received with enthusiasm.
Had he been fond of society he might have
been at parties every night ; but he was fonder of
books and of solitude, and he took very little advantage
of people's friendliness.

The few houses to which he went were houses
famous for good music, and it was in one of these
houses that he met Vivien Faux.

It was in the midst of a symphony by Beethoven,
while he was standing on the edge of the crowd
which surrounded the open space given to the instrumentalists,
that he first saw the woman who
was to be his wife. She was sitting in the recess
of a lofty window, quite apart from the throng  a
pale, dark-eyed girl, with roughened hair carelessly
heaped above her low, broad forehead. Her slender
figure and sloping shoulders showed to advantage ina
low-necked black gown, without a vestige of ornament.
She wore neither jewels nor flowers, at an
assembly where gems were sparkling and flowers
breathing sweetness upon every feminine bosom.

VOL. III. D

Her thin, white arms hung loosely in her lap ; her
back was turned to the performers, and her eyes
were averted from the crowd. She looked the image
of ennui and indifference.

He found his hostess directly the symphony was
over, and asked her to introduce him to the young
lady in black velvet yonder, sitting alone in the
window.

"Have you been struck by Miss Faux*s rather
singular appearance ?'* asked Signora Vicenti. "She
is not BO handsome as many young ladies who are
here to-night."

No, she is not handsome, but her face interests
me. She looks as if she had suffered some great
disappointment."

I believe her whole life has been a disappointment.
She is an orphan, and, as far as I can ascertain,
a friendless orphan. She has good means, but
there is a mystery about her position which places
her in a manner apart from other girls of her age.
She has no relations to whom to refer, no family
home to which to return. She is here with some
rather foolish people  an English artist and his

wife, who cannot do very much for her, and I believe
she keenly feels her isolation. It makes her bitter
against other girls, and she loses friends as fast
as she makes them. People won't put up with her
tongue. Well, Mr. Ransome, do you change your
mind after that ?'*

On the contrary, I feel so much the more
interested in the young lady."

"Ah, your interest will not last. However, I
shall be charmed to introduce you."

They went across the room to that distant recess
where Miss Faux was still seated, her hair and attitude
unchanged since George Ransome first observed
her. She started with a little look of surprise when
Signora Vicenti and her companion approached ; but
she accepted the introduction with a nonchalant air,
and she replied to Ransome opening remarks with
manifest indifference. Then by degrees she grew
more animated, and talked about the people in the
room, ridiculing their pretensions, their eccentricities,
their costume.

"You are not an habitue here ?" she asked. " I
don't remember seeing you before to-night."

No ; it is the first of Signora Vicenti's parties
that I have seen."

Then I conclude it will be the last."
"Why?"

0, no sensible person would come a second
time. The music is tolerable if one could hear it
anywhere else, but the people are odious."

'yet I conclude this is not your first evening
here ?"

"No; I come every week. I have nothing else
-to do with myself but to go about to houses I hate,
And mix with people who hate me."
Why should they hate you ?"
0, we all hate each other, and want to overreach
one another. Envy and malice are in the air.
Picture to yourself fifty manoeuvring mothers with a
hundred marriageable daughters, most of them portionless,
and about twenty eligible men. Think
how ferocious the competition must be !"

"But you are independent of all that; you are
outside the arena."

Yes ; I have nothing to do with their slave-market,
but they hate me all the same ; perhaps

because I have a little more money than most of
them; perhaps because I am nobody  a waif and
stray  able to give no account of my existence."

She spoke of her position with a reckless candour
that shocked him.

"There is something to bear in every lot," he
said, trying to be philosophical.

"I suppose so, but I only care about my own
burden. Please, don't pretend that you do either.
I should despise a man who pretended not to be
selfish."

*'Do you think that all men are selfish?"

I have never seen any evidence to the contrary.
The man I thought the noblest and the best did me
the greatest wrong it was possible to do me, in order
to spare himself trouble."

Ransome was silent. He would not enter into
the discussion of a past history of which he was
ignorant, and which was doubtless full of pain.

After this he met her very often, and while other
young men avoided her on account of her bitter
tongue, he showed a preference for her society, and
encouraged her to confide in him. She went everywhere,

chaperoned by Mr. Mortimer, a dreary twaddler,
who was for ever expounding theories of art which
he had picked up, parrot-wise, in a London art-school
thirty years before. His latest ideas were
coeval with Machine and Already. Mrs. Mortimer
was by way of being an invalid, and sat and nursed
her neuralgia at home, while her husband and Miss
Faux went into society.

It was at the beginning of spring that an
American lady of wealth and standing invited the
Mortimer and their protegee to a picnic, to which
Mr. Ransome was also bidden ; and it was this picnic
which sealed George Kansome's fate. Pity for
Vivien's lonely position had grown into a sincere
regard. He had discovered warm feelings under
that cynical manner, a heart capable of a profound
affection. She had talked to him of a child, a kind
of adopted sister, whom she had passionately loved,
and from whom she had been parted by the selfish
cruelty of the little girl's parents.

*' My school-life in England had soured me
before then," she said, "and I was not a very
amiable person even at fifteen years old; but that

cruelty finished me. I have hated my fellow-creatures
ever since."

He pleaded against this wholesale condemnation.

"You were unlucky," he said, *4n encountering
unworthy people."

"Ah, but one of those people, the child's
father, had seemed to me the best of men. I had
believed in him as second only to God in benevolence
and generosity. When he failed I renounced my
belief in human goodness."

Unawares, George Ransome had fallen into the
position of her confidant and friend. From friendship
to love was an easy transition ; and a few words,
spoken at random during a ramble on an olive-clad
hill, bound him to her for ever. Those unpremeditated
words loosed the fountain of tears, and he saw
the most scornful of women, the woman who affected
an absolute aversion for his sex, and a contempt for
those weaker sisters who waste their love upon such
vile clay  he saw her abandon herself to a passion
of tears at the first word of affection which he had
ever addressed to her. He had spoken as a friend
rather than as a lover ; but those tears bound him to

her for life. He put his arm round her, and pillowed
the small pale face upon his breast, the
dark impassioned eyes looking up at him drowned
in tears.

** You should not have said those words," she
sobbed. *' You cannot understand what it is to have
lived as I have lived  a creature apart  unloved 
unvalued. 0, is it true ?  do you really care forme?"


"With all my heart," he answered, and in good
faith.

His profound compassion took the place of love ;
and in that moment he believed that he loved her asa
man should love the woman whom he chooses
for his wife.

They were married within a month from that
March afternoon ; and for some time their married
life was happy. He wished to take her to England,
but she implored him to abandon that idea.

In England everybody would want to know who
I am," she said. ** I should be tortured by questions
about * my people.' Abroad, society is less
exacting."

He deferred to her in this, as he would have done
in any other matter which involved her happiness.
They spent the first half-year of their married life in
desultory wanderings in the Overland and the Engadine,
and then settled at Nice for the winter.

Here Mrs. Ransome met Lady Lochinvar, whom
she had known at Florence, and was at once invited
to the Palais Montano ; and here for the first time
appeared those clouds which were too soon to darken
George Ransome's domestic horizon.

There were many beautiful women at Nice that
winter : handsome Irish girls, vivacious Americans,
Frenchwomen, and Englishwomen ; and among so
many who were charming there were some whom
George Ransome did not scruple to admire, with as
much frankness as he would have admired a face by
Guido or Eafiaelle. He was slow to perceive his
wife's distrust, could hardly bring himself to believe
that she could be jealous of him ; but he was not
suffered to remain long in this happy ignorance.
A hysterical outburst one night after their return
from a ball at the Club-house opened the husband's
eyes. The demon of jealousy stood revealed ; and

from that hour the angel of domestic peace was
banished from George Kansome's hearth.

He struggled against that evil influence. He
exercised patience, common sense, forbearance ; butin
vain. There were lulls in the storm sometimes,
delusive calms ; and he hoped the demon was exorcised.
And then came a worse outbreak; more
hysterics ; despairing self-abandonment ; threats of
suicide. He bore it as long as he could, and ultimately,
his wife's health offering an excuse for such
a step, he proposed that they should leave Nice, and
take a villa in the environs, in some quiet spot where
they might live apart from all society.

Vivien accepted the proposition with rapture;
she flung herself at her husband's feet, and covered
his hands with tearful kisses.

"0, if I could but believe that you still love me,
that you are not weary of me," she exclaimed, " I
should be the happiest woman in the universe."

They spent a week of halcyon peace, driving about
in quest of their new home. They explored the
villages within ten miles of Nice, they breakfasted
at village restaurants, in the sunny March noontide.

and finally they settled upon a villa at St. Jean,
within an hour's drive of the great white city, and
to this new home they went at the end of the month,
after bidding adieu to their friends in Nice.

THE RIFT IN THE LUTE.

The villa was built on a ledge of ground between
the road and the sea. There was a stone terrace in
front of the windows of salon and dining-room,
below which the ground shelved steeply down to the
rocks and the blue water. The low irregular-shaped
house was screened from the road by a grove of
orange and lemon trees, with a peach or a cherry
here and there to give variety of colour. In one
corner there was a whole cluster of peach-trees,
which made a mass of purplish-pinky bloom. The
ridges of garden sloping down from the stone
terrace were full of white stocks and scarlet anemones.
Clusters of red ranunculus made spots of
flame in the sun, and the young leaves in the long
hedge of Dijon roses wove an interlacing screen of
crimson, through which the sun shone as through
old ruby glass in a cathedral window. Everywhere

there was a feast of perfume and colour and beauty.
The little bay, the curving pier, the white-sailed
boats, which, seen from the height above, looked no
bigger than the gulls skimming across the blue ;
the quaint old houses of Yillefranche on a level with
the water, and rising tier above tier to the crest of
the hill  pink and blue houses, white and cream-coloured
houses, with pea-green shutters and red
roofs. Far away to the left, the jutting promontory
and the tall white lighthouse ; and away southward,
the sapphire sea, touched with every changing light
and shadow. And this lovely little world at George
Ransome's feet, this paradise in miniature, was all
the lovelier because of the great rugged mountain-wall
behind it, the bare red and yellow hills baked in
the sunlight of ages, the strange old-world villages
yonder high up on the stony flanks of the hills, the
far-away church towers, from which faint sound of
bells came now and again as if from fairyland.

It was a delicious spot this little village of St.
Jean, to which the Nicois came on Sundays and
holidays, to eat bouillabaisse at the rustic tavern or
to picnic in the shade of century-old olives and old

carouse-trees, which made dark masses of foliage
between the road and the sea. George Kansome
loved the place, and could have been happy there if
his wife would only have allowed him ; but those
halcyon days which marked the beginning of their
retirement were too soon ended ; and clouds
lowered again over the horizon  clouds of doubt and
discontent. There are women to whom domestic
peace, a calm and rational happiness, is an impossibility,
and Vivien was one of these women.

From the beginning her suspicious nature had
been on the watch for some hidden evil. She had a
fixed idea that the Fates had marked her for misery,
and she would not open her heart to the sunlight of
happiness.

Was her husband unkind to her ? No, he was
all kindness ; but to her his kindness seemed only
a gentleman-like form of toleration. He had married
her out of pity ; and it was pity that made him
kind. Other women were worshipped. It was her
fate to be tolerated by a man she adored.

She could never forget her own passionate folly,
her own unwomanly forwardness. She had thrown

herself into his arms  she who should have waited
to he wooed, and should have made herself precious
hy the difficulty with which she was won.

*' How can he help holding me cheap ?" she
asked herself  " I who cost him nothing, not even
an hour of doubt ? From the hour we first met he
must have known that I adored him."

Once when he was rowing her about the bay in
the westering sunlight, while the fishermen were
laying down their lines, or taking up their baskets
here and there by the rocks, she asked him suddenly,

What did you think of me, George, the first
time you saw me  that night at Signora Vicenti's
party ? Come, be candid. You can afibrd to tell
me the truth now. Your fate is sealed ; you have
nothing to lose or to gain."

Do you think I would tell you less or more
than the truth under any circumstances, Viva ?" he
asked gravely.

0, you are horribly exact, I know !" she answered,
with an impatient movement of her slender
sloping shoulders, not looking at him, but with her
dark dreamy eyes gazing far off across the bay

towards the distant point where the twin towers of
Monaco Cathedral showed faint in the distance,
but perhaps if the truth sounded very rude you
might suppress it  out of pity."

I don't think the truth need sound rude."

Well," still more impatiently, ** what impression
did I make upon you ?"

"You must consider that there were at least
fifty young ladies in Signora Vicenti's salons that
evening."

"And about thirty old women; and I was lost
in the crowd."

Not quite lost. I remember being attracted
by a young lady who sat in a window niche
apart  "

Like ' Brunswick's fated chieftain.* Pray goon."


"And who seemed a little out of harmony with
the rest of the company. Her manner struck meas
unpleasantly ironical, but her small pale face
interested me, and I even liked the mass of townley
hair brushed up from her low square forehead. I
liked her black velvet gown, without any colour or

ornament. It set off the thin white shoulders and
long slender throat."

"Did you think I was rich or poor, somebody or
nobody ?"

I thought you were a clever girl, soured by
some kind of disappointment."

And you felt sorry for me. Say you felt sorry
me !" she cried, her eyes coming back from the
distant promontory, and fixing him suddenly, bright,
keen, imperious in their eager questioning.

"Yes, I confess to feeling very sorry for you."

Did I not know as much ? From the very
first you pitied me. Pity, pity ! What an intolerable
burden it is ! I have bent under it all my life."

"My dear Viva, what nonsense you talk! Because
I had mistaken ideas about you that first
night, when we were strangers  "

You were not mistaken. I was soured. I
had been disappointed. My thoughts were bitter as
gall. I had no patience with other girls who had so
many blessings that I had never known. I saw
them making light of their advantages, peevish, ill-tempered,
self-indulgent; and I scorned them. Con-vol.

ni. B

tempt for others was the only comfort of my barren
life. And so my vinegar tongue disgusted you, did
it not ?"

** I was not disgusted  concerned and interested,
rather. Your conversation was original. I wanted
to know more of you."

'* Did you think me pretty?"
'I was more impressed by your mental gifts
than your physical  "

*' That is only a polite way of saying you thought
me plain."

** Viva, you know better than that. If I thought
of your appearance at all during that first meeting,
be assured I thought you interesting  eyes, and
pretty. Only prettiness is a poor word to express
a face that is full of intellect and originality."

You thought me pale, faded, haggard, old for
my age," she said decisively. " Don't deny it. You
must have seen what my glass had been telling me
for the last year."

"I thought your face showed traces of suffering."

This was one of many such conversations, full

<of keen questioning on her part, with an assumed

lightness of manner which thinly veiled the irritability
of her mind. She had changed for the worse
since they left Nice ; she had grown more sensitive,
more suspicious, more irritable. She was in a condition
of health in which many women are despondent
or irritable  in which with some women life seems
one long disgust, and all things are irksome,
even the things that have been pleasantness and most
valued before  even the aspect of a lovely landscape
the phrases of a familiar melody, the perfume of a
once favourite flower. He tried to cheer her by
talking of their future, the time to come when there
would be a new bond between them, a new interest
in their lives ; but she saw all things in a gloomy
atmosphere.

"Who knows ?" she said. '' I may die, perhaps ;
or you may love your child better than you have
ever loved me, and then I should hate it."

Viva, you cannot doubt that my love for our
child will strengthen my love for you."

'will it?" she asked incredulously. "God
knows it needs strengthening."

This was hard upon a man whose tenderness

 

 Illinois

and indulgence had been boundless, who had done
all that chivalry and a sense of duty can do to atone
for the lack of love. He had tried his uttermost to
conceal the one bitter truth that love was wanting :
but those keen eyes of hers had seen the gap between
them, that sensitive ear had discovered the
rift in the lute.

One afternoon they climbed the hill to the breezy
common on which the lighthouse stands, and dawdled
about in the sunshine, gathering the pale gray
rosemary bloom and the perfumed thyme which
grow among those hollows and hillocks in such
wild luxuriance. They were sauntering near the
carriage-road, talking very little  she feeble and
tired, although it was her own fancy to have walked
so far  when they saw a carriage driving towards
them  a large landau, with the usual bony horses
and shabby jingling harness, and the usual sunburnt
good-tempered driver.

Two girls in white gowns and Leghorn hats were
in the carriage, with an elderly woman in black.
Their laps were full of wild flowers, and branches of
wild cherry and pear blossom filled the leather hood

at the back of the carriage. They were talking and
laughing gaily, all animation and high spirits, as
they drew near; and at sight of George Ransome
one of them waved her hand in greeting,
and called to the driver to stop. They were two
handsome Irish girls who had made a sensation at
the Battle of Flowers six weeks before. They were
spoken of by some people as the belles of Nice.
Mr. Ransome had pelted them with Parma
violets and yellow rosebuds on the Promenade des
Anglais, as they drove up and down in a victoria
embowered in white stocks and narcissi. He had
waltzed with them at the Cercle de la Mediterranee
and the Palais Montano ; had admired them frankly
and openly, not afraid to own even to a jealous wife
that he thought them beautiful.

Delia Darcy, the elder and handsomer of the two,
leaned over the carriage-door to shake hands with
him, while Vivien stood aloof, on a grassy knoll above
the road, looking daggers. What right had they to
stop their carriage and waylay her husband ?

Who would have thought of finding you in this
out-of-the-way spot ?" exclaimed Miss Darcy ; *' we

fancied you had left the Kiviera. Are you stopping
at Monte Carlo ?"

"No, I have taken a villa at St. Jean."

"Is that near here?"

Very near. You must have skirted the village
in driving up here. And has Nice been very gay
since we left ?"

*' No ; people have been going away, and we have
missed you dreadfully at the opera, and at dances,
and at Kumpelmeyer's. What could have induced
you to bury yourself alive in a village ?" she asked
vivaciously, with that sparkling manner which gives
an air of flirtation to the most commonplace talk.

"My wife has been out of health, and it has
suited us both to live quietly."

Poor Mrs. Ransome  poor you !" exclaimed
Miss Darcy, with a sigh. "0, there she is! How
do you do, Mrs. Ransome ?" gesticulating with a
pretty little hand in a long wrinkled tan glove.
"Do come and talk to us."

Mrs. Ransome bowed stiffly, but did not move
an inch. She stood picking a branch of rosemary to
shreds with nervous restless fingers, scattering the

poor pale blue-gray blossoms as if she were sprinkling
them upon a corpse. The two girls took no
further notice of her, but both bent forward, talking
to Ransome, rattling on about this ball and the other
ball, and a breakfast, and sundry afternoon teas, and
the goings-on  audacious for the most part  of all
the smart people at Nice. They had worlds to tell
him, having taken it into their heads that he was a
humorist, a cynic, who delighted in hearing of the
follies of his fellow-man. He stood with his hat off,
waiting for the carriage to drive on, inwardly impatient
of delay, knowing with what jealous feelings
Vivien had always regarded Delia Darcy, dreading a
fit of ill-temper when the Irish girls should have
vanished by and by below the sandy edge of the
common. He listened almost in silence, giving their
loquacity no more encouragement than good manners
obliged.

*' Why don't you come to the next dance at the
Cercle de la Mediterranee ?" said Delia coaxingly ;
'there are so few good dancers left, and your step
is just the one that suits me best. There are to be
amateur theatricals to bef];in with  scenes from

Much Ado ; and I am to be Beatrice. Won't that
tempt you ?" she asked, with the insolence of an
acknowledged beauty, spoiled by the laxer manners
of a foreign settlement, lolling back in the carriage,
and smiling at him with brilliant Irish gray eyes,
under the shadow of her Leghorn hat, with a great
cluster of daffodils just above her forehead, the
yellow bloom showing vividly against her dark
hair.

The other sister was only a paler reflection
this one, and echoed her speeches, laughing when
she laughed.

Surely you will come to see Delia act Beatrice ?"
she said. "I can't tell you how well she does it.
Sir Randall Spofiforth is the Benedict."

''My dears, we shall have no time to dress for
dinner !" expostulated the duenna, feeling that this
kind of thing had lasted long enough. " En avant,
cohere

"Won't you come'* pleaded the pertinacious
Delia; 'rit is on the twenty-ninth, remember  next
Thursday week."

The carriage rolled slowly onward.

*' I regret that I shall not be there," said ransome
decisively.

Delia shook her parasol at him in pretended
anger.

He rejoined his wife. She stood surrounded by
the shreds of rosemary and thyme which she had
plucked and scattered while he was talking. She
was very pale ; and he knew only too well that she
was very angry.

Come, Viva, it is time we turned homeward,"
he said.

Yes, the sun has gone down, has it not ?" she
exclaimed mockingly, as she looked after the carriage,
which sank below the ragged edge of heather
and thyme yonder, as if it had dropped over the
cUff.

Why, my love, the sun is above our heads !"

"Is it ? Your sun is gone down, anyhow. She
is very lovely, is she not?"

The question was asked with sudden eagerness,
as if her life depended upon the reply. She was
walking quickly in her agitation, going down the
hill much faster than she had mounted it.

Yes, they are both handsome girls, feather-headed,
but remarkably handsome," her husband
answered carelessly.

But Delia is the lovelier. She is your divinity."


Yes, she is the lovelier. The other seems a
copy by an inferior hand."

And she is so fond of you. It was cruel to
refuse her request, when she pleaded so hard."

How can you be so foolish or so petty, Vivien ?
Is it impossible for me to talk for five minutes with
a handsome girl without unreasonable anger on your
part?"

*' Do you expect me to be pleased or happy when
I see your admiration of another woman  admiration
you do not even take the trouble to conceal ?
Do you suppose I can ever forget last winter  how I
have seen you dancing with that girl night after
night ? Yes, I have had to sit and watch you. I
was not popular, I had few partners ; and it is bad
form to dance more than once with one's husband.
I have seen her in your arms, with her head almost
lying on your shoulder, again and again, as if it

were her natural place. * What a handsome couple !'
I have heard people say ; ' are they engaged ?' Do
you think that was pleasant for me ?"

You had but to say one word, and I would have
left off dancing for ever."

"Another sacrifice  like your marriage."

** Vivien, you would provoke a saint."

** Yes, it is provoking to be chained to one woman
when you are dying for another."

How much oftener am I to swear to you that I
don't care a straw for Miss Darcy ?"

Never again," she answered. " I love you too
well to wish you to swear a lie."

They had come down from the common by this
time, and were now upon a pathway nearer home  a
narrow footpath on the edge of the cliff opposite
Beaulieu ; the gently-curving bay below them, and
behind and above them orchards and gardens, hill
and lighthouse. It was one of their chosen walks.
They had paced the narrow path many an afternoon
when the twin towers of Monaco showed darken the
shadow of sundown.

Vivien, I think you are the most difficult creature

to live with that ever a man had for his wife,"
said Ransome, stung to the quick hy her persistent
perversity.

"I am difficult to live with, am I?" she cried.
** Why don't you go a step further  why don't you
say at once that you wish I were dead ?" she cried,
with a wild burst of passion. " Say that you wish
me dead."

"I own that when you torment me, as you are
doing to-day, I have sometimes thought of death 
yours or mine  as the only escape from mutual
misery," he answered gloomily.

He had been sauntering a few paces in front of
her along the narrow path between the olive-garden
and the edge of the cliff, she following slowly  both
in a desultory way, and talking to each other without
seeing each other's face. The cliff sank sheer below
the pathway, with only a narrow margin of rushy
grass between the footpath and the brink of the
precipice. It was no stupendous depth, no giddy
height from which the eye glanced downward, sickening
at the horror of the gulf. One looked down
at the jewel-bright waves and the many-hued rocks,

the fir-trees growing out of the crags, without a
thought of danger ; and yet a false step upon those
sunburnt rushes might mean instant death.

He came to a sudden standstill after that last
speech, and stood leaning with both hands upon his
stick, angry, full of gloom, feeling that he had said
a cruel thing, yet not repenting of his cruelty. He
stood there expectant of her angry answer ; but there
was only silence.

Silence, and then a swift rushing sound, like the
flight of a great bird. He looked round, and saw
that he was alone !

Darkness.

She had flung herself over the cliff. That rustling
noise was the sound of her gown as it brushed
against the rushes and seedling firs that clothed the
precipice with verdure. He looked over the cliff,
and saw her lying among the rocks, a white motionless
figure, mangled and crushed, dumb and dead,
his victim and his accuser.

His first impulse was to fling himself over the
edge where she had cast away her life a minute ago ;
but common sense overcame that movement of despair.
A few yards further towards the point the
side of the cliff was less precipitous. There were
jutting ledges of rock and straggling bushes by
which a good climber might let himself down to the
beach, not without hazard, but with a fair chance of
safety. As he scrambled downward he saw a fisherman's
boat shooting across the bay, and he thought

that his wife's fall had been seen from the narrow
strip of sandy shore yonder towards Beaulieu.

She was lying on her side among the low wet
slabs of rock, the blue water lapping round her.
There was blood upon her face, and on one mangled
arm, from which the muslin sleeve was ripped. Her
gown had caught in the bushes, and was torn to
shreds ; and the water flowing so gently in and out
among her loosened hair was tinged with blood.

Her eyes were wide open, staring wildly, and
they had a glassy look already. He knew that she
was dead.

Did you see her fall?" he asked the men in the
boat, as they came near.

"No," said one. "I heard the gulls scream,
and I knew there was something. And then I looked
about and saw something white lying there, under
the cliff."

They lifted her gently into the boat, and laid heron
a folded sail at the bottom, as gently and as
tenderly as if she were still capable of feeling, as if
she were not past cure. George Ransome asked no
question, invited no opinion. He sat in the stern

of the boat, dumb and quiet. The horror of this
sudden doom had paralysed him. What had he done
that this thing should happen, this wild revenge of
a woman's passionate heart which made him a murderer
? What had he done? Had he not been
patient and forbearing, indulgent beyond the common
indulgence of husbands to fretful wives ? shad
he not blunted the edge of wrath with soft answers ?
Had he not been affectionate and considerate even
when love was dead ? And yet because of one hard
speech, wrung from his irritated nerves, this wild
creature had slain herself.

The two fishermen looked at him curiously. He
saw the dark southern eyes watching him; saw
gravity and restraint upon those fine olive faces
which had been wont to beam with friendly smiles.
He knew that they suspected evil, but he was in no
mood to undeceive them. He sat in an apathetic
silence, motionless, stupefied almost, while the men
rowed slowly round the point in the golden light of
sundown. He scarcely looked at that white still
figure lying at the bottom of the boat, the face hidden
under a scarlet kerchief which one of the men

had taken from his neck. He sat staring at the
rocky shore, the white gleaming lighthouse, the long
ridge of heathy ground on the crest of the hill, the
villas, the gardens with their glow of light and
colour, the dark masses of foliage clustering here
and there amidst the bright-hued rocks. He looked
at everything except his dead wife, lying almost at
his feet.

There was an inquiry that evening before the
Juge instruction at Yillefranche, and he was made
to give an account of his wife's death. He proved
a very bad witness. The minute and seemingly
frivolous questions addled his brain. He told the
magistrate how he had looked round and found the
path empty : but he could not say how his wife had
fallen  whether she had flung herself over the edge
or had fallen accidentally, whether her foot had
slipped unawares, whether she had fallen face forward,
or whether she had dropped backwards from
the edge of the cliff.

I tell you again that I did not see her fall," he
protested impatiently.

VOL. III. F

Did jou usually walk in advance of your wife?"
asked the Frenchman. " It was not very polite to
turn your back upon a lady."

I was worried, and out of temper."

** For what reason ?"

**My wife's unhappy jealousy created reasons
where there were none. The people who know me
know that I was not habitually unkind to her."

"Yet you gave her an answer which so maddened
her that she flung herself over the cliff in her despair?"


I fear that it was so," he answered, with the
deepest distress depicted in his haggard face. "She
was in a nervous and irritable condition. I had
always borne that fact in mind until that moment.
She stung me past endurance by her groundless
jealousies. I had been a true and loyal husband to her
from the hour of our marriage. I had never wronged
her by so much as a thought ; and yet I could not
talk to a pretty peasant-girl, or confess my admiration
for any woman I met in society, without causing
an outbreak of temper that was almost madness. I
bore with her long and patiently. I remembered

that the circumstances of her childhood and youth
had been adverse, that her nature had been warped
and perverted ; I forgave all faults of temper in a
wife who loved me ; but this afternoon  almost
for the first time since our marriage  I spoke unkindly,
cruelly perhaps. I have no wish to avoid
interrogation, or to conceal any portion of the truth."

*' You did not push her over the cliff ?"

I did not. Do I look like a murderer, or bear
the character of a man likely to commit murder ?'*

The examination went on, with cruel reiteration
of almost the same questions. The Juge destruction
was a hard-headed legal machine, who believed
that the truth might be wrung out of any criminal
by persistent questioning. He suspected Ransome,
or deemed it his duty to suspect him, and he
ordered him to be arrested on leaving the court ; so
George Kansome passed the night after his wife's
death in the lock-up at Villefranche.

What a night that was for a man to live through!
He sat on a stone bench, listening to the level plish-
plash of that tideless sea ever so far beneath him.
He heard the footsteps going up and down the steep

stony street of that wonderful old seaport ; he heard
the scream of the gulls and the striking of the clock
on the crest of the hill as he sat motionless, with
his elbows on his knees, and his head in his hands,
brooding over that swift, sudden horror of yesterday.
Could it have been an accident? Did she step
backwards unawares and slip over the edge ? No ;
he remembered where she was standing when he
last looked at her, some distance from the side of
the cliff, standing among the heather and wild
thyme which grew down to the edge of the little
path. She must have made a rapid rush to the
brink after that fatal speech of his. She had flung
her life away in a single impulse of blind, mad
anger  or despair. She had not paused for an
instant to take thought. Alas ! he knew her so
well ; he had so often seen those sudden gusts of
passion ; the rush of crimson to the pale small face ;
the quivering lips striving impotently for speech;
the fury in the dark eyes, and the small nervous
hands clenched convulsively. He had seen her
struggle with the demon of anger, and had seen the
storm pass swifter than a tempest-driven cloud across

the moon. Another moment and she would burst
into tears, fling her arms round his neck, and
implore him to forgive her.

"I love you too well ever to know happiness,"
she said.

That was her favourite apology.

It is only people without passions who can be
happy," she told him once. "I sometimes think
that you belong to that family,"

And she was dead; she whose undisciplined
love had so plagued and tried him, she was dead ;
and he felt himself her murderer.

Alas ! doubly a murderer, since she had perished
just at that time when her life should have been
most precious to him, when he should have made
any sacrifice to secure her peace. He who had seen
all the evils of a fretful temper exhibited in her
character had yet been weak enough to yield to a
moment of anger, and to insult the woman whom he
ought to have cherished.

A long - familiar line of Byron's haunted his
brain all through the night, and mixed itself with
that sound of footsteps on the street of stairs, and

the scream of the gulls, and the flapping of the
waves against the stone quay.

She died, but not alone  "
She who was to have been the mother of his firstborn
child was lying dead in the white-walled villa
where they had once been happy.

Hush ! In the soft clear light of an April morning
he heard the tolling of the church bell, solemn,
slow, measured, at agonising intervals, which left
an age of expectancy between the heavy strokes of
the clapper.

Vivos voce, mortuus plano.

They bury their dead at daybreak in that fair
land of orange and lemon groves. In the early
morning of the first day after death, the hastily-fashioned
coffin was carried out into the sunshine,
and the funeral procession wound slowly up the hill
towards the graveyard near the church of Ville-franche.
George Kansome knew how brief is the
interval between death and burial on that southern
shore, and he had little doubt that the bell was
tolling for her whose heart was beating passionately
when the sun began to sink.

So soon ! Her grave would be filled in and
trodden down before they let him out of prison.

It had never seemed to him that he was to stay
long in captivity, or that there could be any difficulty
in proving his innocence of any part in the catastrophe,
except that fatal part of having upset the
balance of a weak mind, and provoked a passionate
woman to suicide. As for the confinement of the
past night, he had scarcely thought about it. He had
a curious semi-consciousness of time and place which
was a new experience to him. He found himself
forgetting where he was and what had happened.
There were strange gaps in his mind  intervals of
oblivion  and then there were periods in which
he sat looking at the slanting shaft of sunlight
between the window and the ground, and trying
to count the motes that danced in that golden
haze.

The day passed strangely, too  sometimes at
railroad pace, sometimes with a ghastly slowness.
Then came a night in which sleep never visited his
eyelids  a night of bodily and mental restlessness,
the greater part of which he spent in futile efforts to

open the heavily-bolted door, or to drag the window-bars
from their stone sockets. His prison was a relic
of the Middle Ages, and Hercules himself could not
have got out of it.

In all those endeavours he was actuated by a
blind impulse  a feverish desire to be at large again.
Not once during that night did he think of his dead
wife in her new-made grave on the side of the hill.
He had forgotten why they had shut him up in that
stony chamber  or rather had imagined another
reason for his imprisonment.

He was a political offender  had been deeply
concerned in a plot to overthrow Victor Emanuel,
and to create a Republic for Italy. He himself
was to be President of that Republic. He felt all
the power to rule and legislate for a great nation.
He compared himself with Solon and with Pericles,
to the disadvantage of both. There was a
greatness in him which neither of those had ever
attained.

I should rule them as God Himself," he thought.
"It would be a golden age of truth and justice  a
millennium of peace and plenty. And while the

nations are waiting for me I am shut up here hy the
treachery of France."

Next morning he was [taken before the Juge
instruction for the second time. The two fishermen
who picked up his wife's corpse were present
as witnesses; also his wife's maid, and the three
other servants ; also his wife's doctor.

He was again questioned severely, but this time
nothing could induce him to give a direct answer to
any question. He raved about the Italian Republic,
of which he was to be chief. He told the French
magistrate that France had conspired with the
Italian tyrant to imprison and suppress him.

"Every other pretence is a subterfuge," he said.
My popularity in Italy is at the root of this
monstrous charge. There will be a rising of the
whole nation if you do not instantly release me.
For your own sake, sir, I warn you to be prompt."

This man is pretending to be mad," said the
magistrate.

I fear there is more reality than pretence about
the business," said the doctor.

He took Kansome to the window, and looked at

his eyes in the strong white light of noon. Then
he went over to the magistrate, and they whispered
together for some minutes, while the prisoner sat
staring at the floor and muttering to himself.

After that there came a long dark interval in
George Ransome's life  a waking dream of intolerable
length, but not unalloyed misery ; for the hallucinations
which made his madness buoyed himup
and sustained him during some part of that dark
period. He talked with princes and statesmen ; he
was not alone in the madhouse chamber, or in the
madhouse garden, or in that great iron cage where
even the most desperate maniacs were allowed to disport
themselves in the air and the sunlight as in a
gymnasium. He was surrounded by invisible friends
and flatterers, by public functionaries who quailed
before his glance and were eager to obey his commands.
Sometimes he wrote letters and telegrams
all day long upon any scraps of paper which his
keepers would give him ; sometimes he passed whole
days in a dreamy silence with arms folded, and
abstracted gaze fixed on the distant hill-tops, like

Napoleon at St. Helena, brooding over the future of
nations.

By and by there came a period of improvement
or what was called improvement by the doctors, but
which to the patient seemed a time of strange blankness
and disappointment. All those busy shadows
which had peopled his life, his senators and flatterers,
had abandoned him ; he was alone in that strange
place amidst a strange people, most of whom seemed
to be somewhat wrong in their heads. He was able
to read the newspapers now, and was vexed to find
that his speeches were unreported, his letters and
manifestoes unpublished ; disappointed to find that
Victor Emanuel was still King of Italy and the new
Republic still a web of dreams.

His temper was very fitful at this time, and he
had intervals of violence. One morning he found
himself upon the hills, digging with half-a-dozen
other men, young and old, dressed pretty much like
himself. It was in the early summer morning, before
the sun had made the world too hot for labour. It
was rapture to him to be there, digging and running
about on the dewy hillside, in an amphitheatre of

mountains, high above the stony bed of the Pavillon.
The air was full of sweet odours, orange and lemon
bloom, roses and lilies, from the gardens and orchards
below. He felt that earth and sky were rapturously
lovely, that life was a blessing and a privilege beyond
all words. He had not the consciousness of a single
care, or even a troubled memory. His quarrel with
his father, his self-imposed exile, his marriage and
its bitter disillusions, his wife's tragical fate : all were
forgotten. He felt as a sylph might feel  a creature
without earthly obligations, revelling in the glory of
Nature.

This new phase of being lasted so long as the
hills and the sky wore their aspect of novelty. It
was succeeded by a period of deepest depression, a
melancholy which weighed him down like a leaden
burden. He sat in the madhouse garden apart
from the rest, brooding over the darkness of life.
He had no hopes, no desires.

Gradually memory began to return. He asked
why his wife did not come to see him. ** She used
to be so fond of me," he said, " foolishly fond of me ;
and now she deserts me."

Then he talked of going home again. The image
of his latest dwelling-place had gradually shaped
itself in his mind. He saw the hedges of pale
amber roses, the carouse-trees, dark against the
glittering blue of the sea, which shone through
every opening in the branches like a background
of lapis lazuli, and the rugged mountains rising
above the low curving shore steeply towards the
sky, with patches of olive here and there on their
stony flanks, but for the most part bare and barren,
reddish-yellow, steeped in sunlight.

Yes, he remembered every feature of that lovely
and varied scene. The village of Eza yonder on the
mountain-road  a cluster of stony dwellings perched
upon rocky foundations, hardly to be distinguished
from the rough crags upon which they were built 
and higher still, in a cleft of those yellow hills,
Turbid, and its cloven towers, the birthplace of
Roman Emperors. How lovely it all was, and how
pleasant it had been to lounge in his garden, where
the light looked dazzling on beds of white gillyflowers,
and where the blue summer sea smiled in

the far distance, with a faint purple cloud yonder
on the horizon which represented Corsica !

Why had he ever left that familiar home ? Why
could he not return to it ?

'* Get me a carriage," he said to one of the
attendants ; ** I want to go home immediately. My
wife is waiting for me."

It is not customary to make explanations to
patients even in the hest-regulated asylums. Nobody
answered him ; nobody explained anything to
him. He found himself confronted with a dogged
silence. He wore himself out in an agony of impatience,
like a bird beating itself to death against
its bars. He languished in a miserable ignorance,
piecing his past life together bit by bit, with a
strange interweaving of fancies and realities, until
by slow degrees the fancies dropped out of the web
and left him face to face with the truth.

At last the record of the past was complete. He
knew that his wife was dead, and remembered how
she had died. He knew that he had been a prisoner,
first in gaol and then in a lunatic asylum ; but he
did not acknowledge to himself that he had been

mad. He remembered the bell tolling in the
saffron light of dawn ; he remembered the magistrate's
exasperating questions ; he remembered
everything.

After this he sank into a state of sullen despair,
and silence and apathy were accepted as the indications
of cure. He vas told by the head physician
that he could leave the institution whenever he
pleased. There was an account against him as a
private patient, which had been guaranteed by his
landlord, who knew him to be a man of some means.
His German man-servant had been to the asylum
many times to inquire about him. The doctor
recommended him to travel  in Switzerland  until
the end of the autumn, and to take his servant as
his attendant and courier. " Change of air and
scene will be of inestimable advantage to you," said
the doctor ; " but it would not be wise for you to
travel alone."

*' What month is it?"

*' August  the twenty-second."

"And my wife died early in April," he said.

Only a few months ; and I feel as if I had been
in this place a century."

He took the doctor's advice. He cared very
little where he went or what became of him. Life
and the world, his own individuality, and the beautiful
earth around and about him were alike indifferent
to him. He went back to the villa at St. Jean,
and to the garden he had loved so well in the bright
fresh spring-time. All things had an overgrown
and neglected look in the ripeness of expiring summer
; too many flowers, a rank luxuriance of large
leaves and vivid blossoms  fruit rotting in the long
grass  an odour of decaying oranges, the waste of
the last harvest. He went up to the graveyard on
the hill above the harbour. It was not a picturesque
burial - place. The cemetery at Cimies was far
more beautiful. The cemetery at Nice was in a
grander position.

He felt sorry that she should lie here, amidst the
graves of sailors and fishermen  as even if after
death she were slighted and hardly used.

He was summoned back to England early in the
following year to his mother's death-bed. Neither

Bl

she nor any of his family had known the miserable
end of his married life. They knew only that he
had married, and had lost his wife after a year
of marriage. Hazard had not brought any one
belonging to him in contact with any of those few
people who knew the details of that tragical story.

His mother's death made him rich and independent,
but until the hour he met Mildred Fausset
his life was a blank.

VOL. III.

THE GRAVE ON THE HILL.

After that visit to the great white barrack on the
road to St. Andre, Mildred felt that her business at
Nice was finished, there was nothing more for her
to learn. She knew all the sad story now  all,
except those lights and shadows of the picture
which only the unhappy actor in that domestic
tragedy could have told her. The mystery of the
past had unfolded itself, stage by stage, from that
Sunday afternoon when Cesar Castellani came to
Enderby Manor, and out of trivial-seeming talk
launched a thunderbolt. The curtain was lifted.
There was no more to be done. And yet Mildred
lingered at Nice, loving the place and its environs a
little for their own beauty, and feeling a strange and
sorrowful interest in the scene of her husband's misfortunes.


There was another reason for remaining in the

gay white city in the fact that Lady Lochinvar had
taken a fancy to Miss Ransome, and that the young
lady seemed to be achieving a remarkably rapid cure
of her infatuation for the Italian. It may have been
because at the Palais Montano she met a good many
Italians, and that the charm of that nationality
became less potent with familiarity. There was-music,
too, at the Palais, and to spare, according to
Mr. Stuart, who was not an enthusiast, and was
wont to shirk his aunt's musical reunions.

Mildred was delighted to see her husband's niece
entering society under such agreeable auspices. She
went out with her occasionally, just enough to make
people understand that she was not indifferent to
her niece's happiness ; and for the rest. Lady 
and Mrs. Murray were always ready to chaperon
the frank, bright girl, who was much admired by
the best people, and was never at a loss for partners
at dances, whoever else might play wallflower.

Mrs. Greswold invited Mr. and Mrs. Murray and
Malcolm Stuart to a quiet little dinner at the Westminster,
and the impression the young man made
upon Mildred's mind was altogether favourable. He

was certainly not handsome, but his plainness was
of an honest Scottish type, and his freckled complexion
and blue eyes, sandy hair and moustache,
were altogether different from the traditionary Judas
colouring of Castellani's auburn beard and hazel
eyes. Truth and honesty beamed in the Scotchman's
open countenance. He looked every inch a soldier
and a gentleman.

That he admired Pamela was obvious to the
most unobservant eye; that she affected to look
down upon him was equally obvious ; but it might
be that her good-humoured scorn of him was more
pretence than reality. She made light of him openly
as one of that inferior race of men whose minds never
soar above the stable, the groom, or the home-farm,
and whose utmost intellectual ingenuity culminates
in the invention of a salmon-fly or the
discovery of a new fertilise for turnip-fields.

You are just like my brother-in-law, Henry
Montfort," she told him.

From the air with which you say that, I conclude
Sir Henry Montfort must be a very inferior
person."

** Not at all. He is the kind of man whom all
other men seem to respect. I believe he is one of
the best shots in England. His bags are written
about in the newspapers ; and I wonder there are
any pigeons left in the world, considering the way
he has slaughtered them."

** I saw him shoot at Monte Carlo the year before
last."

"Yes; he went there and back in a week on
purpose to shoot. Imagine any man coming to this
divine Elvira, this land of lemon-groves and
palms, and roses and violets, just to slaughter
pigeons !"

*'He won the Grand Prix. It was a pretty big
feather in his cap," said Mr. Stuart. " Am I to
conclude that you dislike sporting men ?"

I prefer men who cultivate their minds."

*'Ah, but a man who shoots well and rides
straight, and can play a big salmon, and knows how
to manage a farm, cannot be altogether an imbecile.
I never knew a really fine rider yet who was a fool.
Good horsemanship needs so many qualities that
fools don't possess ; and to be a crack shot, I assure

YOU that a man must have some brains and a good
deal of perseverance ; and perseverance is not a bad
thing in its way, Miss Kansome."

He looked at her with a certain significance in
his frank blue eyes, looked at her resolutely, as
some bold young Vandal or Visigoth might have
looked at a Roman maiden whom he meant to subjugate.


"I did not say that sportsmen were fools," she
answered sharply. " I only say that the kind of
man I respect is the man whose pleasures are those
of the intellect  who is in the front rank among the
thinkers of his age  who  "

Reads Darwin and the German metaphysicians,
I suppose. I tried Darwin to see if he would help
me in my farming, but I can't say I got very
much out of him in that line. There's more in old
Virgil for an agriculturist. I'm not a reading man,
you see, Miss Ransome. I find by the time I've
read the daily papers my thirst for knowledge is
pretty well satisfied. There's such a lot of information
in the London papers, and when you add the
Figaro and the New York Herald, there's not much

left for a man to learn. I generally read the
Quarterlies  as a duty  to discover how many dull
books have enriched the world during the previous
three months."

"That's a great deal more reading than my
brother-in-law gets through. He makes a great fuss
about his Times every morning; but I believe he
seldom goes beyond the births, marriages, and deaths,
or a report of a billiard match. He reads the Field,
as a kind of religion, and B ally's Magazine ; and
I think that's all."

*'Do you like men who write books. Miss Ransome,
as well as men who read them ?"

Pamela crimsoned to the roots of her hair at
this most innocent question. Malcolm Stuart
marked that blush with much perplexity. .::

When one is interested in a book one likes to
know the author," she replied, with cautious vagueness.


Do you know many writers ?"

Not many  in fact, only one."

** Who is he ?"

Mr. Castellani, the author of Nepenthe''

Nepenthe ?  ah, that's a novel people were talking
about some time ago. My aunt was full of it,
because she fancied it embodied some of her own
ideas. She wanted me to read it. I tried a few
chapters," said Malcolm, making a wry face. " Sickly
stuff."

*' People who are not in the habit of reading
the literature of imagination can hardly understand
such a book as Nepenthe'' replied Pamela severely.
They are out of touch with the spirit and the
atmosphere of the book."

*' One has to be trained up to that kind of thing,
I suppose. One must forget that two and two make
four, in order to get into the proper frame of mind,
eh? Is the author of Nepenthe an interesting
man?"

He was shrewd enough to interpret the blush
aright. The author of Nepenthe was a person to be
dreaded by any aspirant to Miss Kansome's favour.

He is like his book," answered Pamela briefly.

Is he a young man ?"

I don't know your idea of youth. He is older
than my aunt  about five-and-thirty."

Stuart was just thirty. One point in his favour,
anyhow, he told himself, not knowing that to a
romantic girl years may be interesting.

Handsome ?"

** That is always a matter of opinion. He is just
the kind of man who ought to have written Nepenthe,
That is really all I can tell you," said Pamela, with
some irritation. **I believe Lady Lochinvar knew
Mr. Castellani when he was a very young man. She
can satisfy your curiosity about him."

** I am not curious. Castellani ? An Italian, I
suppose, one of my aunt's innumerable geniuses.
She has a genius for discovering geniuses. When
I see her with a new one, I am always reminded
of a child with a little coloured balloon. So pretty
till it bursts !"

Pamela turned her back upon him in a rage, and
went over to the piano to talk to Mrs. Murray, who
was preparing to sing one of her repertoire of five
Scotch ballads.

Shall it be * Gin a body ' or ' Huntington ' ?"
she asked meekly ; and nobody volunteering a decisive
opinion, she chirruped the former coquettish little

ballad, and put a stop to social intercourse for
exactly four minutes and a half.

After that evening Mr. Stuart knew who his
rival was, and with what kind of influence he had to
contend. An author, a musical man, a genius !
Well, he had very few weapons with which to fight
such an antagonist, he who was neither musical, nor
literary, nor gifted with any of the graces which
recommend a lover to a sentimental girl. But he
was a man, and he meant to win her. He admired
her for her frank young prettiness, so unsophisticated
and girlish, and for that perfect freshness and truthfulness
of mind which made all her thoughts transparent.
He was too much a man of the world
to ignore the fact that Miss Kansome of Mapledown
would be a very good match for him, or that such a
marriage would strengthen his position in his aunt's
esteem. Women bow down to success. Encouraged
by these considerations, Mr. Stuart pursued the even
tenor of his way, and was not disheartened by the
idea of the author of Nepenthe, more especially
as that attractive personage was not on the ground.

He had one accomplishment over and above the
usual outdoor exercises of a country gentleman.
He could dance, and he was Pamela's favourite
partner wherever she went. No one else waltzed as
well. Not even the most gifted of her German
acquaintance ; not even the noble Spaniards who were
presented to her.

He had another and still greater advantage in
the fact that he was often in the young lady's
society. She was fond of Lady Lochinvar, and
spent a good deal of her life at the Palais Montana,
where, with Mrs. Murray's indefatigable assistance,
there were tennis-parties twice a week. That charming
garden, with its numerous summer-houses,
made a kind of club for the privileged few who were
permitted les petites entrees.

While Pamela was enjoying the lovely springtide
amongst people whose only thought was of making
the best of life, and getting the maximum of sunshine,
Mildred Greswold spent her days in sad
musings upon an irrevocable past. It was her
melancholy pleasure to revisit again and again the

place in which her husband had lived, the picturesque
little village under the shadow of the tall
cliff, every pathway which he must have trodden,
every point from which he must have gazed across
the bay, seaward or landward in his troubled reveries.
She dwelt with morbid persistence on the
thought of those two lives, both dear to her, yet in
their union how terrible a curse ! She revisited
the villa until the old caretaker grew to look upon
her as a heaven-sent benefactress, and until the
village children christened her the English Madonna,
that pensive look recalling the face of the statue in
the church yonder, so mildly sad, a look of ineffable
sweetness tinged with pain. She sat for hours at a
stretch in the sunlit garden, amongst such flowers
as must have been blooming there in those closing
hours of Fay's wedded life, when the shadow of her
cruel fate was darkening round her, though she
knew it not. She talked to people who had known
the English lady. Alas ! they were all dubious
in their opinions. None would answer boldly for
the husband's innocence. They shrugged their

shoulders  they shook their heads. Who could say?
Only the good God would ever know the truth
about that story.

The place to which she went oftener in those
balmy afternoons was the burial-ground on the hill,
where Fay's grave, with its white marble cross,
occupied one of the highest points in the enclosure,
and stood out sharp and clear against the cloudless
sapphire.

The inscription on that marble was of the briefest :

"Vivien Ransome.
Died April 24th, 1868.
Eternally lamented."

Below the cross stretched the grass mound, without
shrub or flower. It was Mildred's task to beautify
this neglected grave. She brought a florist from
the neighbourhood to carry out her own idea, and
on her instruction he removed the long, rank grass
from the mound, and planted a cross of roses, eight
feet long, dwarf bush-roses closely planted, Gloire
de Dijon and Mareschal Noel.

She remembered how Fay had revelled in the
rose-garden at The Hook, where midsummer was a

kind of carnival of roses. Here the roses would
bloom all the year round, and there would be perpetual
perfume and blossom and colour above poor
Fay's cold dust.

PAMELA CHANGES HER MIND.

Lucifer himself, after his fall, could not have
felt worse than Cesar Castellani when he followed
Mildred Greswold to Nice, as he did within a week
after she left Pallanza.

He went to Nice partly because he was an idle
man, and had no desire to go back to English east
winds just when the glory of the southern springtide
was beginning. He was tolerably well furnished
with money, and Nice was as good to him as any
other place, while the neighbourhood of Monte
Carlo was always an attraction. He followed in
Mildred's footsteps, therefore ; but he had no idea
of forcing himself upon her presence for some time
to come. He knew that his chances were ruined
in that quarter for the time being, if not for ever.

This was his first signal overthrow. Easy
conquests had so demoralised him that he had

grown to consider all conquests easy. He had unlimited
faith in the charm of his own personality 
his magnetic power, as he called it : and, behold !
his magnetic power had failed utterly with this
lovely, lonely woman, who should have turned to
him in her desolation as the flowers turn to the sun.
For once in his life he had overrated himself
and his influence ; and in so doing he had lost the
chance of a very respectable alliance.

Fifteen hundred a year would be at least bread
and cheese," he reflected, *' and to marry an English
heiress of a good old family would solidify my
position in society. The girl is pretty enough, and
I could twist her round my finger. She would bore
me frightfully ; but every man must suffer something.
There is always a discord somewhere amidst the
harmony of life ; and if one's teeth are not too often
set on edge by that false note, one should be content."
He remembered how contemptuously he had rejected
the idea of such a marriage in his talk with
Miss Fausset, and how she had been set upon it.

I should stand ever so much better with her if
I married well, and solidified myself into British

respectability. I might naturalise myself, and go
into Parliament perhaps, if that would please the
good soul at Brighton. "What will she leave me
when she dies, I wonder ? She is muter than the
Sphinx upon that point. And will she ever die ?
Brighton is famous for pauper females of ninety and
upwards. A woman like Miss Fausset, who lives
in cotton - wool, and who has long done with the
cares and passions of life, might go well into a
second century. I don't see any brilliancy in the
prospect there ; but so long as I please her and do
well in the world she will no doubt be generous."

He told himself that it was essential he should
make some concession to Miss Fausset's prejudices
now that he had failed with Mildred. So long ashe
had hoped to win that nobler prize he had been
careless how he jeopardised the favour of his elderly
patroness. But now he felt that her favour was all
in all to him, and that the time for trifling was past.

She had been very generous to him during the
years that had gone by since she first came to his
aid almost unasked, and helped him to pay his college
debts. She had come to the rescue many times

VOL. III. n

since that juvenile entanglement, and her patience
had been great. Yet she had not failed to remonstrate
with him at every fresh instance of folly and
self-indulgent extravagance. She had talked to him
with an unflinching directness ; she had refused
further help ; but somehow she had always given
way, and the cheque had been written.

Again and again she had warned him that there
were limits even to her forbearance.

If I saw you working earnestly and industriously,
I should not mind, even if you were a failure,"
said his benefactress severely.

I have worked, and I have produced a book
which was not a failure," replied Cesar, with his
silkiest air.

One book in a decade of so-called literary life !
Did the success of that book result in the payment
of one single debt ?"

*' Dearest lady, would you have a man waste his
own earnings  the first-fruits of his pen  the grains
of fairy gold that filtered through the mystic web of
his fancy  would you have him fritter away that
sacred product upon importunate hosiers or vindictive

shoemakers ? That money was altogether
precious to me. I kept it in my waistcoat pocket
as long as ever I could. The very touch of the coin
thrilled me. I believe cabman and crossing-sleepers
had most of it in the long-run," he concluded,
with a remorseful sigh.

Miss Fausset had borne with his idleness and his
vanity, as indulgent mothers bear with their sons ;
but he felt that she was beginning to tire of him.
There were reasons why she should always continue
forbearing ; but he wanted to insure himself something
better than reluctant subsidies.

These considerations being taken into account,
Mr. Castellani was fain to own to himself that he
had been a fool in rejecting the substance for tie
shadow, however alluring the lovely shade might be.

But I loved her," he sighed ; " I loved her as
I had never loved until I saw her fair Madonna face
amidst the century-old peace of her home. She
filled my life with a new element. She purified and
exalted my whole being. And she is thrice as rich
as that prattling girl !"

He ground his teeth at the remembrance of his

failure. There had been no room for doubt. Those
soft violet eyes had been transformed by indignation,
and had flashed upon him with angry fire. That
fair Madonna face had whitened to marble with suppressed
passion. Not by one glance, not by one
tremor in the contemptuous voice, had the woman
he loved acknowledged his influence.

He put up at the Cosmopolitan, got in half-a-dozen
French novels of the most advanced school from
Galignani's Library, and kept himself very close fora
week or two ; but he contrived to find out what the
ladies at the Westminster were doing through
Albrecht the courier, who believed him to be Miss
Ransome's suitor, and was inclined to be communicative,
after being copiously treated to bocks, or petits
verres as the case might be.

From Albrecht, Castellani heard how Miss Ransome
spent most of her time at the Palais Montano,
or gadding about with her ladyship and Mrs. Murray;
how, in Albrecht's private opinion, the balls and
other dissipations of Nice were turning that young
lady's head; how Mrs. Greswold went for lonely
drives day after day, and would not allow Albrecht to

show her the beauties of the neighbourhood, which
it would have been alike his duty and pleasure to
have done. He had ascertained that her favourite,
and, indeed, habitual, drive was to St. Jean, where
she was in the habit of leaving the fly at the little
inn while she strolled about the village in a purposeless
manner. All this appeared to Albrecht as
eccentric and absurd, and beneath a lady of !Mrs.
Greswold's position. She would have employed her
time to more advantage in going on distant excursions
in a carriage and pair, and in lunching at
remote hotels, where Albrecht would have been sure
of a bonne main from a gratified landlord, as well as
his commission from the livery stable.

Castellani heard with displeasure of Pamela's
dancings and junketings, and he told himself that it
was time to throw himself across her pathway. He
had not been prepared to find that she could enjoy
life without him. Her admiration of him had been
so transparent, her sentimental fancy so naively
revealed, that he had believed himself the sultan of
her heart, having only to throw the handkerchief
whenever it might suit him to claim his prey. Much

as lie prided himself upon his knowledge of human
nature, as exemplified in the softer sex, he had
never estimated the fickleness of a shallow sentimental
character like Pamela's. No man with a due
regard to the value and dignity of his sex could conceive
the ruthless rapidity with which a young lady
of tins temperament will transfer her affections and
her large assortment of day-dreams and romantic
fancies from one man to another. No man could
conceive her capacity for admiring in Number Two
all those qualities which were lacking in Number
One. No man could imagine the exquisite adaptability
of girlhood to surrounding circumstances.

Had Castellani taken Miss Kansome when she
was in the humour, he would have found her the
most amiable and yielding of wives ; a model English
wife, ready to adapt herself in all things to the
will and the pleasure of her husband; unselfish,
devoted, unassailable in her belief in her husband as
the first and best of men. But he had not seized
his opportunity. He had allowed nearly a month to
go by since his defeat at Pallanza, and he had allowed

Pamela to discover that life might he endurable, nay,
even pleasant, without him.

And now, hearing that the young lady was gadding
about, and divining that such gadding was
the high-road to forgetfulness, Mr. Castellani made
up his mind to resume his sway over Miss Ransome's
fancy without loss of time. He called upon a dashing
American matron whom he had visited in London
and Paris, and who was now the occupant of a villa
on the Promenade des Anglais, and in her drawing-room
he fell in with several of his London acquaintances.
He found, however, that his American friend,
Mrs. Montagu W. Brown, had not yet succeeded in
being invited to the Palais Montano, and only knew
Lady Lochinvar and Miss Ransome by sight.

Her ladyship is too stand-offish for my taste,"
said Mrs. Montagu Brown, *' but the girl seems
friendly enough  no style  not as we Americans
understand style. I am told she ranks as an heiress
on this side, but at the last ball at the Cercle
she wore a frock that I should call dear at forty
dollars. That young Stuart is after her, evidently.
I hope you are going to the dance next Tuesday, Mr.

Castellani ? I want some one nice to talk to now
my waltzing days are over."

Castellani protested that Mrs. Montagu Brown
was in the very heyday of a dancer's age, and would
be guilty of gross cruelty to terpsichorean society in
abandoning that delightful art.

You make me tired," said Mrs. Montagu
Brown, with perfect good-humour. " There are
plenty of women who don't know when they're old,
but I calculate every woman knows when she weighs
a hundred and sixty pounds. When my waist came
to twenty-six inches I knew it was time to leave off
waltzing ; and I was pretty good at it, too, in my
day, I can tell you."

"With that carriage you must have been divine,"
replied Cesar ; " and I believe the cestus the
Venus de Milo must measure over twenty-six inches."

*' The Venus de Milo has no more figure than
the peasant - women one sees on the promenade,
women who seem as if they set their faces against
the very idea of a waist. Be sure you get a card for
Tuesday. I hate a dude ; but I love to have some
smart men about me wherever I go."

I shall be there," said Castellani, bending over
his hostess and imparting a confidential pressure to
her fat white hand by way of leave-taking, before he
slipped silently from the room.

He had studied the art of departure as if it were
a science : never lingered, never hummed and hawed ;
never said he must go and didn't ; never apologised
for going so soon while everybody was pining to get
rid of him.

The next day there was a battle of flowers ; not
the great floral fete before the sugar-plum carnival,
but an altogether secondary affair, pleasant enough in
the balmy weather of advancing spring.

Every one of any importance was on the promenade,
and among the best carriages appeared
Lady Lochinvar's barouche, decorated with white
camellias and carmine carnations. She had carefully
eschewed that favourite mixture of camellias
and Parma violets which has always a half-mourning
or funereal air. Malcolm Stuart and Miss Kansome
sat side by side on the front seat with a great basket
of carnations on their knees, with which they pelted
their acquaintance, while Lady Lochinvar, in brown

velvet and ostrich plumage, reposed at her ease in
the back of the spacious carriage, and enjoyed the
fun without any active participation.

It was Pamela's first experience in flower-fights,
and to her the scene seemed enchanting. The afternoon
was peerless. She wore a white gown, as if it
had been midsummer, and white gowns were the
rule in most of the carriages. The sea was at its
bluest, the pink walls and green shutters, white
walls and red roofs, the orange-trees, cactus and palm,
made up a picture of a city in fairyland, taken asa
background to a triple procession of carriages all
smothered in Parma violets, Dijon roses, camellias,
and narcissus, with here and there some picturesque
coach festooned with oranges and lemons amidst
tropical foliage.

The carriages moved at a foot-pace ; the pavements
were crowded with smart people, who joined
in the contest. Pamela's lap was full of bouquets,
which fell from her in showers as she stood up every
now and then to fling a handful of carnations into a
passing carriage.

Presently, while she was standing thus, flushed

and sparkling, she saw a familiar figure on the footpath
by the sea, and paled suddenly at the sight.

It was Cesar Castellani, sauntering slowly along,
in a short coat of light-coloured cloth, and a felt hat
of exactly the same delicate shade. He came to the
carriage-door. There was a block at the moment,
and he had time to talk to the occupants.

'how do you do, Lady Lochinvar? You have
not forgotten me, I hope  Cesar Castellani  though
it is such ages since we met ?"

He only lifted his hat to Lady Lochinvar, waiting
for her recognition, but ha held out his hand to
Pamela.

"How do you like Nice, Miss Ransome ? As
well as Pallanza, I hope ?"

"Ever so much better than Pallanza."

There was a time when that coat aud hat, the
soupgon of dark blue velvet waistcoat just showing
underneath the pale buff collar, the loose China silk
handkerchief carelessly fastened with a priceless
intaglio, the gardenia and pearl-gray gloves, would
have ensnared Pamela's fancy : but that time was
past. She thought that Cesar's costume looked

effeminate and underbred beside the stern simplicity
of Mr. Stuart's heather-mixture complet. The scales
had fallen from her eyes ; and she recognised the
bad taste and the vanity involved in that studied
carelessness, that artistic combination of colour.

She remembered what Mildred had said of Mr.
Castellani, and she was deliberately cold. Lady
Lochinvar was gracious, knowing nothing to the
Italian's discredit.

"I remember you perfectly," she said. 'you
have changed very little in all these years. Be sure
you come and see me. I am at home at five almost
every afternoon."

The carriage moved on, and Pamela sat in an
idle reverie for the next ten minutes, although the
basket of carnations was only half empty.

She was thinking how strange it was that her
heart beat no faster. Could it be that she was
cured  and so soon ? It was even worse than a
cure ; it was a positive revulsion of feeling. She
was vexed with herself for ever having exalted that
over-dressed foreigner into a hero. She felt she had
been un-english, unwomanly even, in her exaggerated

admiration of an exotic. And then she glanced
at Malcolm Stuart, and averted her eyes with a
conscious hush on seeing him earnestly observant
of her.

He was plain, certainly. His features had been
moulded roughly, but they were not bad features.
The lines were rather good, in fact, and it was a fine
manly countenance. He was fair and slightly
freckled, as became a Scotchman ; his eyes were
clear and blue, but could be compared to neither
sapphires nor violets, and his eyelashes were lighter
than any cultivated young lady could approve. The
general tone of his hair and complexion was ginger ;
and ginger, taken in connection with masculine
beauty, is not all one would wish. But then ginger
is not uncommon in the service, and it is a hue
which harmonises agreeably with Highland bonnets
and tartan. No doubt Mr. Stuart had looked really
nice in his uniform. He had certainly appeared
to advantage in a Highland costume at the fancy ball
the other night. Some people had pronounced
him the finest-looking man in the room.

And, again, good looks are of little importance

in a man. A plains man, possessed of all the
manly accomplishments, a dead shot and a crack
rider, can always appear to advantage in English
society. Pamela was beginning to think more
kindly of sporting men, and even of Sir Henry
Montfort.

"I'm sure Mr. Stuart would get on with him,"
she thought, dimly foreseeing a day when Sir Henry
and her new acquaintance would be brought together
somehow.

Cesar Castellani took immediate advantage of
Lady Lochinvar's invitation. He presented himself
at the Palais Montano on the following afternoon,
and he found Pamela established there as if
she belonged to the house. It was she who poured
out the tea, and dispensed those airy little hot cakes,
which were a kind of idealised galette, served in
the daintiest of doyle, embroidered with Lady
Lochinvar's cipher and coronet.

Mr. and Mrs. Murray were there, and Malcolm
Stuart, the chief charm of whose society seemed to
consist in his exhibition of an accomplished Dan die
Diamond which usurped the conversation, and which

Castellani would have liked to inaccurate then and
there with the most virulent form of rabies. Pamela
squatted on a little stool at the creature's feet, and
assisted in showing him off. She had acquired a
power over him which indicated an acquaintance of
some standing.

"What fools girls are !" thought Castellani.

His conquests among women of maturer years
had been built upon rock as compared with the
shifting quicksand of a girl's fancy. He began to
think the genus girl utterly contemptible.

He has but one fault," said Pamela, when the
terrier had gone through various clumsy evolutions
in which the hardiness of his legs and the length
of his body had been shown off to the uttermost.
"He cannot endure Box, and Box detests him.
They never meet without trying to murder each
other, and I'm very much afraid," bending down to
kiss the broad hairy head, " that Dandie is the
stronger."

*' Of course he is. Box is splendid for muscle,
but weight must tell in the long-run," replied Mr.
Stuart.

My grandmother had a Dandie whose father
belonged to Sir Walter Scott," began Mrs. Murray
: "he was simply a per-r-r-fect dog, and my
mamma  "

Castellani fled from this inanity. He went to
the other end of the room, where Lady Lochinvar
was listening listlessly to Mr. Murray, laid himself
out to amuse her ladyship for the next ten minutes,
and then departed without so much as a look at
Pamela.

'* The spell is broken," he said to himself, as he
drove away. " The girl is next door to an idiot.
No doubt she will marry that sandy Scotchman.
Lady Lochinvar means it, and a silly-pated miss
like that can be led with a thread of floss silk. Moi
je menjiche.'

About a week after Mr. Castellani's reappearance
Mildred Greswold received a letter from Brighton,
which made a sudden change in her plans.

It was from Mr. Maltravers the Incumbent of
St. Edmund's :

St. Edmund's Vicarage.
Dear Mrs. Greswold,  After our thoroughly-confidential
conversations last autumn I feel justified
in addressing you upon a subject which I knows
very near to your heart, namely, the health and
welfare, spiritual as well as bodily, of your dear
aunt and my most valued parishioner. Miss Fausset.
The condition of that dear lady has given me considerable
uneasiness during: the last few months.
She has refused to take her hand from the plough ;
she labours as faithfully as ever in the Lord's vineyard
; but I see with deepest regret that she is no
longer the woman she was, even a year ago. The
decay has been sudden, and it has been rapid. Her
strength begins to fail her, though she will hardly
admit as much, even to her medical attendant, and
her spirits are less equable than of old. She has
intervals of extreme depression, against which the
efforts of friendship, the power of spiritual consolation,
are unavailing.

''I feel it my duty to inform you, as one who
has a right to be interested in the disposal of Miss
Fausset's wealth, that my benefactress has con-vol.

III. I

summoned the generosity of past years by a magnificent
gift. She has endowed her beloved Church of
St. Edmund with an income which, taken in conjunction
with the pew-rents, an institution which I
hope hereafter to abolish, raises the priest of the
temple from penury to comfort, and affords him the
means of helping the poor of his parish with his
alms as well as with his prayers and ministrations.
This munificent gift closes the long account of beneficence
betwixt your dear aunt and me. I have
nothing further to expect from her for my church
or for myself. It is fully understood between us
that this gift is final. You will understand, therefore,
that I am disinterested in my anxiety for this
precious life.

** You, dear Mrs. Greswold, are your aunt's only
near relative, and it is but right you should be the
companion and comforter of her declining days.
That the shadow of the grave is upon her I can but
fear, although medical science sees but slight cause
for alarm. A year ago she was a vigorous woman,
spare of habit certainly, but with a hardness of bearing
and manner which promised a long life. To-day

she is a broken woman, nervous, fitful, and, I fear,
unhappy, though I can conceive no cause for sadness
in the closing years of such a noble life as hers has
been, unselfish, devoted to good works and exalted
thoughts. If you can find it compatible with your
other ties to come to Brighton, I would strongly
recommend you to come without loss of time, and
I believe that the change which you will yourself
perceive in my valued friend will fully justify the
course I take in thus addressing you.  I am ever,
dear Mrs. Greswold, your friend and servant,

'* Samuel Maltravers."

Mildred gave immediate orders to courier and
maid, her trunks were to be packed that afternoon,
a coupe was to be taken in the Lapide for the following
day, and the travellers were to go straight
through to Paris. But when she announced this
fact to Pamela the damsel's countenance expressed
utmost despondency.

Upon my word, aunt, you have a genius for
taking one away from a place just when one is
beginning to be happy !" she exclaimed in irrepressible
vexation.

She apologised directly after upon hearing of
Miss Fausset's illness.

I am a horrid ill-tempered creature," she said ;
'* but I really am beginning to adore Nice. It is a
place that grows upon one."

"What if I were to leave you with Lady Locking
She told me the other day that she would
like very much to have you to stay with her. You
might stay till she leaves Nice, which will be in
about three weeks' time, and you could travel with
her to Paris. You could go from Paris to Brighton
very comfortably, with Peterson to take care of you.
Perhaps you would not mind leaving Nice when
Lady Lochinvar goes ?"

Pamela sparkled and blushed at the suggestion.

*' I should like it very much, if Lady Lochinvar
is in earnest in asking to have me."

I am sure she is in earnest. There is only
one stipulation I must make, Pamela. You must
promise me not to renew your intimacy with Mr.
Castellani."

With all my heart, aunt. My eyes have been
opened. He is thoroughly bad style."

AS THE SANDS RUN DOWN.

Mildred was in Brighton upon the third day after
she left Nice. She had sent no intimation of her
coming to her aunt, lest her visit should he for-hidden.
A nervous invalid is apt to have fancies,
and to resent anything that looks like being taken
care of. She arrived, therefore, unannounced, left
her luggage at the station, and drove straight to
Lewes Crescent, where the butler received her with
every appearance of surprise.

It was early in the afternoon, and Miss Fausset
was sitting in her accustomed chair in the back
drawing-room, near the fire, with her book-table on
her right hand. The balmy spring-time which Mildred
had left at Nice had not yet visited Brighton,
where the season had been exceptionally cold, and
where a jovial north-easter was holding his revels allover
Kemp Town, and enlivening the cold gray sea.
A pleasant bracing day for robust health and animal

spirits ; but not altogether the kind of atmosphere
to suit an elderly spinster suffering from nervous
depression.

Miss Fausset started up, flushed with surprise,
at Mildred's entrance. Her niece had kept her
acquainted with her movements, but had told her
nothing of the drama of her existence since she left
Brighton.

*' My dear child, I am very glad to see you
back," she said gently. "You are come to stay
with me for a little while, I hope, before  "

She hesitated, and looked at Mildred earnestly.

"Are you reconciled to your husband?" she
asked abruptly, as if with irrepressible anxiety.

Reconciled ?" echoed Mildred; "we have never
quarrelled. He is as dear to me to-day as he was
the day I married him  dearer for all the years we
spent together. But we are parted for ever. You
know that it must be so, and you know why."

I hoped that time would have taught you common
sense."

Time has only confirmed my resolution. Do
not let us argue the point, aunt. I know that you

mean kindly, but I know that you are false to your
own principles  to all the teaching of your life 
when you argue on the side of wrong."

Miss Fausset turned her head aside impatiently.
She had sunk back into her chair after greeting
Mildred, and her niece perceived that she, who used
to sit erect as a dart, in the most uncompromising
attitude, was now propped up with cushions, against
which her wasted figure leaned heavily.

"How have you got through the winter, aunt?"
Mildred asked presently.

Not very well. It has tried me more than any
other winter I can remember. It has been a long
weary winter. I have been obliged to give up the
greater part of my district work. I held on as long
as ever I could, till my strength failed me. And
now I have to trust the work to others. I have my
lieutenants  Emily Newton and her sister  who work
for me. You remember them, perhaps. Earnest
good girls. They keep me en rapport with my poor
people; but it is not like personal intercourse. I
begin to feel what it is to be useless  to cumber
the ground."

'' My dear aunt, how can you talk so ? Your life
has been so full of usefulness that you may well
afford to take rest now that your health is not quite
so good as it has been. Even in your drawing-room
here you are doing good. It is only right that
young people should carry out your instructions,
and work for you. I have heard, too, of your
munificent gift to St. Edmund's."

"It is nothing, my dear. When all is counted,
it is nothing. I have tried to lead a righteous life.
I have tried to do good ; but now sitting alone by
this fire day after day, night after night, it all
seems vain and empty. There is no comfort in the
thought of it all, Mildred. I have had the praise of
men, but never the approval of my own conscience."

There was a brief silence, Mildred feeling it vain
to argue against her aunt's tone of self-upbraiding,
unable to fathom the mind which prompted the
words.

Then you are not going back to your husband
?" Miss Fausset asked abruptly, as if in utter
forgetfulness of all that had been said ; and then
suddenly recollecting herself, " you have made up

your mind, you say. Well, in that case you can
stay with me  make this your home. You may
take up my work, perhaps  by and by."

Yes, aunt, I hope I may be able to do so. My
life has been idle and useless since my great sorrow.
I want to learn to be of more use in the world ; and
you can teach me, if you will."

"I will, Mildred. I want you to be happy. I
have made my will. You will inherit the greater
part of my fortune."

My dear aunt, I don't want  "

"No, you are rich enough already, I know;
but I should like you to have still larger means, to
profit by my death. You will use your wealth for
the good of others, as I have tried  feebly tried 
to use mine. You will be rich enough to found a
sisterhood, if you like  the Sisters of St. Edmund.
I have done all I mean to do for the Church. Mr.
Maltravers knows that."

Dear aunt, why should we talk of these things ?
You have many years of life before you, I hope."

"No, Mildred, the end is not far off. I feel
worn out and broken. I am a doomed woman."

** But you have had no serious illness since I
was here ?"

No, no, nothing specific ; only languor and
shattered nerves, grant of appetite, want of sleep :
the sure indications of decay. My doctor can find
no name for my malady. He tries one remedy after
another, until I weary of his experiments. I am
glad you have come to me, Mildred ; hut I should
be gladder if you were going back to your husband."


0, aunt, why do you say things which you
know must torture me ?"

Because I am worried by your folly. Well, I
will say no more. You will stay with me and comfort
me, if you can. What have you done with
Pamela?"

Mildred told her aunt about Lady Lochinvar's
invitation.

"Ah! she is with Lady Lochinvar. A very
frivolous person, I suppose. Your husband's niece
is a well-meaning silly girl ; sure to get into mischief
of some kind. Is she still in love with Cesar
Castellani ?"

I think not  I hope not. I believe she is
cured of that folly."

Yoa call it a folly ? Well, perhaps you are
right. It may be foolishness for a girl to follow the
blind instinct of her heart."

For an impulsive girl like Pamela."

Yes, no doubt she is impulsive, generous, and
calculating ; a girl hardly to be trusted with her
own fate," said Miss Fausset, with a sigh, and then
she lapsed into silence.

Mr. Maltravers had not exaggerated the change
in her. It was only too painfully evident. Her
manner and bearing had altered since Mildred had
seen her last. Physically and mentally her nature
seemed to have relaxed and broken down. It was
as if the springs that sustained the human machine
had snapped. The whole mechanism was out of
gear. She who had been so firm of speech and
meaning, who had been wont to express herself
with a cold and cutting decisiveness, was now feeble
and wailing, repeating herself, harping upon the
same old string, obviously forgetful of that which
had gone before.

Minded felt that she would he only doing her
duty in taking up her abode in the great dull house,
and trying to soothe the tedium of decay. She
could do very little, perhaps, hut the fact of near
kindred would be in itself a solace, and for her own
part she would have the sense of duty done.

I will stay with you as long as you will have
me, aunt," she said gently. " Albrecht is below.
May I send to the station for my luggage ?"

Of course, and your rooms shall be got ready
immediately. The house will be yours before very
long, perhaps. It would be strange if you could not
make it your home !"

She touched a spring on her book-table, which
communicated with the electric-bell, and Franz
appeared promptly.

Tell them to get Mrs. Greswold's old rooms
ready at once, and send Albrecht to the station for
the luggage," ordered Miss Fausset, with something
of her old decisiveness. *' Louisa is with you, I
suppose ?" she added to her niece.

** Louisa is at the station, looking after my
things. Albrecht leaves me to-day. He has been a

good servant, and I think he has had an easy place.
I have not been an eager traveller."

No ; you seem to have taken life at a slow
pace. What took yon to Nice ? It is not a place I
should have chosen if I wanted quiet."

Mildred hesitated for some moments before she
replied to this question.

*' You know one part of my sorrow, aunt; and
I think I might trust you with the whole of that
sad story. I went to Nice because it was the place
where my husband lived with his first wife  where
my unhappy sister died."

'' She died at Nice ?" repeated Miss Fausset,
with an abstracted air, as if her power of attention,
which had revived for a little just now, were beginning
to flag.

*' She died there, under the saddest circumstances.
I am heart-broken when I think of her
and that sad fate. My own dear Fay, how hard
that your loving heart should be an instrument of
self-torture! She was jealous of her husband 
causelessly, unreasonably jealous  and she killed
herself in a paroxysm of despair !"

The awfulness of this fact roused Miss Fausset
from her apathy. She started up from amongst her
cushions, staring at Mildred in mute horror, and
her wasted hands trembled as they grasped the arm
of her chair.

Surely, surely that can't be true !" she faltered.
It is too dreadful ! People tell such lies  an
accident, perhaps, exaggerated into a suicide. An
overdose of an opiate !"

No, no ; it was nothing like that. There is no
doubt. I heard it from those who knew. She flung
herself over the edge of the cliff ; she was walking
with her husband  my husband, George Greswold 
then George Ransome ; they were walking together ;
they quarrelled ; he said something that stung her
to the quick, and she threw herself over the cliff.
It was the wild impulse of a moment, for which an
all-merciful God would not hold her accountable.
She was in very delicate health, nervous, hysterical,
and she fancied herself unloved, betrayed, perhaps.
Ah, aunt, think how hardly she had been used  castoff,
disowned, sent out alone into the world  by
those who should have loved and protected her.

Poor, poor Fay ! My mother sent her away from
The Hook where she was so happy. My mother's
jealousy drove her out  a young girl, so friendless,
so lonely, so much in need of love. It was my
mother's doing ; but my father ought not to have
allowed it. If she was weak he was strong, and Fay
was his daughter. It was his duty to protect her
against all the world. You know how I loved my
father ; you know that I reverence his memory ;
hut he played a coward's part when he sent Fay out
of his house to please my mother."

She was carried away by her passionate regret
for that iU-used girl whose image had never lost its
hold upon her heart.

*not a word against your father, Mildred. He
was a good man. He never failed in affection or in
duty. He acted for the best according to his lights
in relation to that unhappy girl  unhappy  ill-used
eyes, yes, yes. He did his best, Mildred. He
must not be blamed. But it is dreadful to think
that she killed herself."

Had you heard nothing of her fate, aunt ?
My father must have been told, surely. There

must have been some means of communication. He
must have kept himself informed about her fate,
although she was banished, given over to the care of
strangers. If he had owned a dog which other
people took care of for him he would have been told
when the dog died."

Miss Fausset felt the unspeakable bitterness of
this comparison.

*' You must not speak like that of your father,
Mildred. You ought to know that he was a goodman.
Yes, he knew, of course, when that poor girl
died, but it was not his business to tell other people.
I only heard incidentally that she had married,
and that she died within a year of her marriage. I
heard no more. It was the end of a sad story."

Again there was an interval of silence. It was
six o'clock ; the sun was going down over the sea
beyond the West Pier, and the lawn, and the
fashionable garden where the gay world congregates
; and this eastern end of the long white sea-front
was lapsing into grayness, through which a
star shone dimly here and there. It looked a cold,
dull world after the pink hotel and the green shutters,

the dusty palms and the turquoise sea of the
Promenade des Anglais ; but Mildred was glad to
be in England, glad to be so much nearer him whose
life companion she could never be again.

Franz brought her some tea presently, and informed
her that her rooms were ready, and that
Louisa had arrived with the luggage. Albrecht
had left his humble duty for his honoured mistress,
and was gone.

When your father died, you looked through his
papers and letters, no doubt ?" said Miss Faust
presently, after a pause in the conversation.

"Yes, aunt, I looked through my dear fathers
letters, and arranged everything with our old family
solicitor, Mr. Cresswell," answered Mildred, surprised
at a question which seemed to have no bearing
upon anything that had gone before.

And you found no documents relating to that
unhappy girl ?"

Not a line  not a word. But I had not expected
to find anything. The history of her birth
was the one dark secret of my father's life  he
would naturally leave no trace of the story."

VOL. III. K

*' Naturally, if he were wiser than most people.
But I have observed that men of business have a
passion for preserving documents, even when they
are worthless. People keep compromising papers
with the idea of destroying them on their deathbeds,
or when they feel the end is near ; and then
death comes without warning, and the papers remain.
Your father's end was somewhat sudden'*

Sadly sudden. When he left Enderby in the
autumn he was in excellent health. The shooting
had been better than usual that year, and I think he
had enjoyed it as much as the youngest of our party.
And then he went back to London, and the London
fogs  caught cold, neglected himself, and we were
summoned to Parchment Street to find him dying
of inflammation of the lungs. It was terrible  such
a brief farewell, such an irreparable loss."

I was not sent for," said Miss Fausset severely.
And yet I loved your father dearly."

'* It was wrong, aunt; but we hoped against
hope almost to the last. It was only within a few
hours of the end that we knew the case was hopeless,
and to summon you would have been to give

him the idea that he was dying. George and I pretended
that our going to him was accidental. We
were so fearful of alarming him."

Well, I daresay you acted for the hest ; but it
was a heavy blow for me to be told that he was
gone  my only brother  almost my only friend."

*' Pray don't say that, aunt. I hope you know
that I love you."

My dear, you love me because I am your father's
sister. You consider it your duty to love me. My
brother loved me for my own sake. He was a noble-hearted
man."

Miss Fausset and her niece dined together 
and spent the evening quietly on each side of
the hearth, with their books and work, the kind of
work which encourages pensive brooding, as the
needle travels slowly over the fabric.

*' I wonder you have no pets, aunt  no favourite
dog."

I have never cared for that kind of affection,
Mildred. I am of too hard a nature, perhaps. My
heart does not open itself to dogs and cats, and
parrots are my abomination. I am not like the

typical spinster. My only solace in the long weary
years has been in going among people who are more
unhappy than myself. I have put myself face to face
with sordid miseries, with heavy life-long burdens ;
and I have asked myself, What is your trouble compared
with these ?"

"Dear aunt, it seems to me that your life
must have been particularly free from trouble and
care."

*' Perhaps, in its outward aspect. I am rich, and
I have been looked up to. But do you think those
long years of loneliness  the aimless, monotonous
pilgrimage through life  have not been a burden ?
Do you think I have not  sometimes, at any rate 
envied other women their children and their husbands
 the atmosphere of domestic love, even with
its attendant cares and sorrows ? Do you suppose
that I . could live for a quarter of a century as I
have lived, and not feel the burden of my isolation ?
I have made people care for me through their self-interest.
I have made people honour me, because I
have the means of helping them. But who is there
who cares for me, Gertrude Fausset ?"

You cannot have done so much for others without
being sincerely loved in return."

With a kind of love, perhaps  a love that has
been bought."

Why did you never marry, aunt ?"

*' Because I was an heiress and a good match,
and distrusted every man who wanted to marry me.
I made a vow to myself, before my twentieth birthday,
that I would never listen to words of love or
give encouragement to a lover ; and I most scrupulously
kept that vow. I was called a handsome
woman in those days ; but I was not an attractive
woman at any time. Nature had made me of too
hard a clay."

"It was a pity that you should keep love at
arm's length."

Far better than to have been fooled by shams,
as I might have been. Don't say any more about
it, Mildred. I made my vow, and I kept it."

Mildred resigned herself quietly to the idea of
the dull slow life in Lewes Crescent. This duty of
solacing her aunt's declining days was the only duty
that remained to her, except that wider duty of

caring for the helpless and the wretched. And she
told herself that there could be no better school in
which to learn how to help others than the house of
Miss Fausset, who had given so much of her life to
the poor.

She had been told to consider her aunt's house
as her own, and that she was at liberty to receive
Pamela there as much and as often as she liked.
She did not think that Pamela would be long without
a settled home. Mr. Stuart's admiration and
Lady Lochinvar's wishes had been obvious ; and
Mildred daily expected a gushing letter from the
fickle damsel, announcing her engagement to the
Scotchman.

At four o'clock on the day after Mildred's arrival,
Miss Fausset's friends began to drop in for afternoon
tea and talk, and Mildred was surprised to see how
her aunt rallied in that long-familiar society. It
seemed as if the praises and flatteries of these people
acted upon her like strong wine. The languid attitude,
the weary expression of the pale drawn face,
were put aside. She sat erect again ; her eyes
brightened, her ear was alert to follow three or four

conversations at a time ; nothing escaped her. Mildred
began to think that she had lived upon the
praises of men rather than upon the approval of
conscience  that these assiduities and flatteries of
a very commonplace circle There essential to her
happiness.

Mr. Maltravers came after the vesper service, full
of life and conversation, vigorous, self-satisfied, with
an air of Papal dominion and Papal infallibility, so
implicitly believed in by his flock that he had learned
to believe as implicitly in himself. The flock was
chiefly feminine, and worshipped without limit or
reservation. There were husbands and sons, brothers
and nephews, who went to church with their womenkind
on Sunday; but these were for the most part
without enthusiasm for Mr. Maltravers. Their idea
of public worship went scarcely beyond considering
Sunday morning service a respectable institution, not
to be dispensed with lightly.

Mr. Maltravers welcomed Mildred with touching
friendliness.

"1 knew you would not fail your aunt in the
hour of need," he said; 'rand now I hope you are

going to stay with her, and to take up her work
when she lays it down, so that the golden thread of
womanly charity may be unbroken."

''I hope I may be able to take up her work. I
shall stay with her as long as she needs me."

That is well. You found her sadly changed,
did you not ?"

'eyes, she is much changed. Yet how bright she
looks this afternoon ! what interest she takes in the
conversation !"

'the flash of the falchion in the worn-out scabbard,"
said Mr. Maltravers.

A layman might have said sword, but Mr. Mal-travers
preferred falchion, as a more picturesque
word. Half the success of his preaching had lain in
the choice of picturesque words. There were sceptics
among his masculine congregation who said there
were no ideas in his sermons ; only fine words,
romantic similes  a perpetual recurrence of fountains
and groves, sunset splendours and roseate
dawns, golden gates and starry canopies, seas of
glass, harps of gold. But if his female worshippers
felt better and holier after listening to him, what

could one ask more ?  and they all declared that it
was so. They came out of church spiritualised,
overflowing with Christian love, and gave their
pence eagerly to the crossing-sweepers on their way
home.

The dropping in and the tea-drinking went on
for nearly two hours. Mr. Maltravers took four cups
of tea, and consumed a good deal of bread-and-hutter,
abstaining from the chocolate biscuits and the pound-cake
which the ladies of the party affected ; abstaining
on principle, as saints and eremites of old
abstained from high living. He allowed himself to
enjoy the delicate aroma of the tea and the delicately-cut
bread-and-butter. He was a bachelor, and lived
poorly upon badly-cooked food at his vicarage. His
only personal indulgence was in the accumulation of
a theological library, in which all the books were of
a High Church cast.

When the visitors were all gone Miss Fausset
sank back into her chair, white and weary-looking,
and Mildred left her to take a little nap while she
went up to her own room, half boudoir, half ,
a spacious apartment, with a fine sea-view.

Here she sat in a reverie, and watched the
fading sky and the slow dim stars creeping out one
hy one.

Was she really to take up her aunt's work, to
live in a luxurious home, a lonely loveless woman,
and to go out in a methodical, almost mechanical
way so many times a week, to visit among the poor?
Would such a life as that satisfy her in all the long
slow years ?

The time would come, perhaps, when she would
find peace in such a life  when her heart would
know no grief except the griefs of others ; when she
would have cast off the fetters of selfish cares and
selfish yearnings, and would stand alone, as saints
and martyrs and holy women of old had stood  alone
with God and His poor. There were women she
knew, even in these degenerate days, who so lived
and so worked, seeking no guerdon hut the knowledge
of good done in this world, and the hope of the
crown immortal. Her day of sacrifice had not yet
come. She had not been able to dissever her soul
from the hopes and sorrows of earth. She had not
been able to forget the husband she had forsaken 

even for a single hour. When she knelt down to
pray at night, when she awoke in the morning, her
thoughts were with him. "How does he bear his
solitude? Has he learnt to forget me and to be
happy?" Those questions were ever present to her
mind.

And now at Brighton, knowing herself so near
him, her heart yearned more than ever for the sight
of the familiar face, for the sound of the beloved
voice. She pored over the time-table, and calculated
the length of the journey  the time lost at Portsmouth
and Bishopstoke  every minute until the
arrival at Romsey ; and then the drive to Enderby.
She pictured the lanes in the early May  the
hedgerows bursting into leaf, the banks where the
primroses were opening, the tender young ferns just
beginning to uncurl their feathery fronds, the spear-points
of the harts tongue shooting up amidst rank
broad docks, and lords and ladies, and the flower on
the leafless blackthorn making patches of white
amongst the green.

How easy it was to reach him ! how natural it
would seem to hasten to him after half a year of exile !

and yet she must not. She had pledged herself to
honour the law ; to obey the letter and the spirit of
that harsh law which decreed that her sister's husband
could not be hers.

She knew that he was at Enderby, and she had
some ground for supposing that he was well, and
even contented. She had seen the letters which he
had written to his niece. He had written about the
shooting, his horses, his dogs ; and there had been
no word to indicate that he was out of health, or in
low spirits. Mildred had pored over those brief
letters, forgetting to return them to their rightful
owner, cherishing them as if they made a kind of
link between her and the love she had resigned.

How firm the hand was !  that fine and individual
penmanship which she had so admired in
the past  the hand in which her first love-letter
had been written. It was but little altered in fifteen
years. She recalled the happy hour when she received
that first letter from her affianced husband.
He had gone to London a day or two after their
betrothal, eager to make all arrangements for their
marriage, impatient for settlements and legal machinery

which should make their union irrevocable,
full of plans for immediate improvements at Enderby.

She remembered how she ran out into the garden
to read that first letter  a long letter, though they
had been parted less than a day when it was written.
She had gone to the remotest nook in that picturesque
riverside garden, a rustic bower by the
water's edge, an osier arbour over which her own
hands had trained the Feline Forester roses. They
were in flower on that happy day  clusters of pale
yellow bloom, breathing perfume round her as she
sat beneath the blossoming arch and devoured her
lover's fond words. 0, how bright life had been
then for both of them !  for her without a cloud.

He was well  that was something to know ;
but it was not enough. Her heart yearned for
fuller knowledge of his life than those letters gave.
Wounded pride might have prompted that cheerful
tone. He might wish her to think him happy and
at ease without her. He thought that she had used
him ill. It was natural, perhaps, that he should
think so, since he could not see things as she saw
them. He had not her deep-rooted convictions.

She thought of him and wondered about him till the
desire for further knowledge grew into an aching
pain. She must write to some one ; she must do
something to quiet this gnawing anxiety. In her
trouble she thought of all her friends in the neighbourhood
of Enderby ; but there was none in whom
she could bring herself to confide except Kollinson,
the curate. She had thought first of writing to the
doctor, but he was something of a gossip, and would
be likely to prattle to his patients about her letter,
and her folly in forsaking so good a husband. Tomlinson
she felt she might trust. He was a thoughtful
young man, despite his cheery manners and some
inclination to facetiousness of a strictly clerical order.
He was one of a large family, and had known trouble,
and Mildred had been especially kind to him and to
the sisters who from time to time had shared his
apartments at the carpenter's, and had revelled in
the gaieties of Enderby parish, the penny-reading
at the schoolhouse, the sale of work for the benefit
of the choir, and an occasional afternoon for tea and
tennis at the Manor. Those maiden sisters of the
curate's had known and admired Lola, and Mr.

Kollinson had been devoted to her from his first
coming to the parish, when she was a lovely child of
seven.

Mildred wrote fully and frankly to the curate.

"I cannot enter upon the motive of our separation,"
she wrote, " except so far as to tell you that
it is a question of principle which has parted us.
My husband has been blameless in all his domestic
relations, the best of husbands, the noblest of men.
Loving him with all my heart, trusting and honouring
him as much as on my wedding-day, I yet felt
it my duty to leave him. I should not make this
explanation to any one else at Enderby, but I wish
you to know the truth. If people ever question you
about my reasons you can tell them that it is my
intention ultimately to enter an Anglican Sisterhood,
or it may be to found a Sisterhood, and to
devote my declining years to my sorrowing fellow-creatures.
This is my fixed intention, but my vocation
is yet weak. My heart cleaves to the old home
and all that I lost in leaving it.

And now, my kind friend, I want you to tell
me how my husband fares in his solitude. If he

were ill and unhappy he would be too generous to
complain to me. Tell me how he is in health and
spirits. Tell me of his daily life, his amusements,
occupations. There is not the smallest detail which
will not interest me. You see him, I hope, often ;
certainly you are likely to see him oftener than anyone
else in the parish. Tell me all you can, and be
assured of my undying gratitude.  Ever sincerely
yours, Mildred Greswold."

Mr. Rollinson's reply came by return of post :

I am very glad you have written to me, dear
Mrs. Greswold. Had I known your address, I think
I should have taken the initiative, and written to
you. Believe me, I respect your motive for the act
which has, I fear, cast a blight upon a good man's
life ; and I will venture to say no more than that the
motive should be a very strong one which forces
you to persevere in a course that has wrecked your
husband's happiness, and desolated one of the most
delightful and most thoroughly Christian homes I
had ever the privilege of entering. I look back and
recall what Enderby Manor was, and I think what it

is now, and I can hardly compare those two pictures
without tears.

"You ask me to tell you [frankly all I can
tell about your husband's mode of life, his health
and spirits. All I can tell is summed up in four
words : his heart is broken. In my deep concern
about his desolate position, in my heartfelt regard
for him, I have ventured to force my society upon
him sometimes when I could not doubt it was
unwelcome. He received me with all his old kindness
of manner ; but I am sympathetic enough to
know when a man only endures my company, and I
know that his feeling was at best endurance. But
I believe that he trusts me, and that he was less
upon his guard with me than he is with other
acquaintances. I have seen him put on an appearance
of cheerfulness with other people. I have heard
him talk to other people as if life had in nowise lost
its interest for him. With me he dropped the mask.
I saw him brooding by his hearth, as he broods
when he is alone. I heard his involuntary sighs.
I saw the image of a shipwrecked existence. Indeed,
Mrs. Greswold, there is nothing else that I can tell

VOL. III. L

you if you would have me truthful. You have
broken his heart. You have sacrificed your love to
a principle, you say. You should be very sure of
your principle. You ask me as to his habits and
occupations. I believe they are about as monotonous
as those of a galley-slave. He walks a great deal 
in all weathers and at all hours  but rarely beyond
his own land. I don't think he often rides ; and he
has not hunted once during the season. He did a
little shooting in October and November, quite alone.
He has had no staying visitor within his doors since
you left him.

"I have reason to know that he goes to the
churchyard every evening at dusk, and spends sometime
beside your daughter's grave. I have seen him
there several times when it was nearly dark, and he
had no apprehension of being observed. You know
low rarely any one enters our quiet little burial-ground,
and how complete a solitude it is at that
twilight hour. I am about the only passer-by, and
even I do not pass within sight of the old yew-tree
above your darling's resting-place, unless I go a
little out of my way between the vestry-door and the

loch-gate. I have often gone out of my way to note
that lonely figure by the grave. Be assured, dear
Mrs. Greswold, that in sending you this gloomy
picture of a widowed life I have had no wish to
distress you. I have exaggerated nothing. I wish
you to know the truth ; and if it lies within your
power  without going against your conscience  to
undo that which you have done, I entreat you to do
so without delay. There may not be much time to
be lost.  Believe me, devotedly and gratefully your
friend, Frederick Eollinson."

Mildred shed bitter tears over the curate's letter.
How different the picture it offered from that afforded
by George Greswold's own letters, in which he had
written cheerily of the shooting, the dogs and horses,
the changes in the seasons, and the events of the
outer world ! That frank easy tone had been part of
his armour of pride. He would not abase himself
by the admission of his misery. He had guessed,
no doubt, that his wife would read those letters, and
he would not have her know the extent of the ruin
she had wrought.

She thought of him in his solitude, pictured him
beside their child's grave, and the longing to look
upon him once more  unseen by him, if it could
be so  became irresistible. She determined to see
with her own eyes if he were as unhappy as Mr.
Robinson supposed. She, who knew him so well,
would be better able to judge by his manner and
bearing  better able to divine the inner workings
of his heart and mind. It had been a habit of her
life to read his face, to guess his thoughts before
they found expression in words. He had never been
able to keep a secret from her, except that one long-hidden
story of the past ; and even there she had
known that there was something. She had seen
the shadow of that abiding remorse.

"I am going to leave you for two days, aunt,"
she said rather abruptly, on the morning after she
received Rollinson's letter. " I want to look at
Lola's grave. I shall go from here to Enderby as
fast as the train will take me ; spend an hour in the
churchyard ; go on to Salisbury for the night ; and
come back to you tomorrow afternoon."

You mean that you are going back to your
husband ?"

"No, no. I may see him, perhaps, by accident.
I shall not enter the Manor House. I am going to
the churchyard  nowhere else."

You would be wiser if you went straight home.
Eemember, years hence, when I am dead and gone,
that I told you as much. You must do as you like
stay at an inn at Salisbury, while your own
beautiful home is empty, or anything else that is
foolish and wrong-headed. You had better let Franz
go with you."

Thanks, aunt ; I would not take him away on
any account. I can get on quite well by myself."

She left Brighton at midday, lost a good deal of
time at the two junctions, and drove to within a few
hundred yards of Enderby Church just as the bright
May day was melting into evening. There was a
path across some meadows at the back of the
village that led to the churchyard. She stopped the
fly by the meadow-gate, and told the man to drive
round to Mr. Robinson's lodgings, and wait for her
there ; and then she walked slowly along the narrow
footpath, between the long grass, golden with buttercups
in the golden evening.

It was a lovely evening. There was a little wood
of oaks and chestnuts on her left hand as she
approached the churchyard, and the shrubberies of
Enderby Manor were on her right. The trees she
knew so well  her own trees  the tall mountain-ash
and the clump of beeches, rose above the lower level
of lilacs and laburnums, acacia and rose maple.
There was a nightingale singing in the thick foliage
yonder  there was always a nightingale at this
season somewhere in the shrubbery. She had lingered
many a time with her husband to listen to that
unmistakable melody.

The dark foliage of the churchyard made an inky
blot midst all that vernal greenery. Those immemorial
yews, which knew no change with the changing
years, spread their broad shadows over the lowly
graves, and made night in God's acre while it was
yet day in the world outside. Mildred went into the
churchyard as if into the realm of death. The
shadows closed round her on every side, and the
change from light to gloom chilled her as she
walked slowly towards the place where her child was
lying.

Yes, he was there, just as the curate had told
her. He stood leaning against the long horizontal
branch of the old yew, looking down at the marble
which bore his daughter's name. He was very pale,
and his sunken eyes and hollow cheeks told of failing
health. He stood motionless, in a gloomy reverie.
His wife watched him from a little way off; she
stood motionless as himself  stood and watched him
till the beating of her heart sounded so loud in her
own ears that she thought he too must hear that
passionate throbbing.

She had thought when she set out on her
journey that it would be sufficient for her just to see
him, and that having seen him she would go away
and leave him without his ever knowing that she
had looked upon him. But now the time had come
it was not enough. The impulse to draw nearer anti
to speak to him was too strong to be denied : she
went with tottering footsteps to the side of the grave,
and called him by his name :

"George! George!" holding out her hands to
him piteously.

'* HOW SHOULD I GREET THEE ?"

The marble countenance scarcely changed as he
looked up at her. He took no notice of the outstretched
hands.

"What brings you here, Mildred?" he asked
coldly.

I heard that you were ill ; I wanted to see for
myself," she faltered.

I am not ill, and I have not been ill. You
were misinformed."

** I was told you were unhappy."

Did you require to be told that ? You did not
expect to hear that I was particularly happy, I
suppose? At my age men have forgotten how to
forget."

It would be such a relief to my mind if you
could find new occupations, new interests, as I hope
to do by and by  a wider horizon. You are so

clever. You have so many gifts, and it is a pity to
bury them all here."

*' My heart is buried here," he answered, looking
down at the grave.

Your heart, yes ; but you might find work for
your mind  a noble career before you  in politics,
in philanthropy."

"I am not ambitious, and I am too old to adapt
myself to a new life. I prefer to live as I am living.
Enderby is my hermitage. It suits me well enough."

There was a silence after this  a silence of despair.
Mildred knelt on the dewy grass, and bent
herself over the marble cross, and kissed the cold
stone. She could reach no nearer than that marble
to the child she loved. Her lips lingered there.
Her heart ached with a dull pain, and she felt the
utter hopelessness of her life more keenly than she
had felt it yet. If she could but die there, at his
feet, and make an end !

She rose after some minutes. Her husband's
attitude was unchanged ; but he looked at her now,
for the first time, with a direct and earnest gaze.

What took you to Nice ?" he asked.

"I wanted to know  all about my unhappy
sister."

And you are satisfied  you know all ; and you
think as some of my neighbours thought of me.
You believe that I killed my wife."

George, can you think so meanly of me  your
wife of fourteen years ?"

You spare me, then, so far, in spite of circumstantial
evidence. You do not think of me as a
murderer ?"

*'I have never for a moment doubted your goodness
to that unhappy girl," she answered, with a
stifled sob. " I am sorry for her with all my heart ;
but I cannot blame you."

There you are wrong. I was to blame. You
know that I do not easily lose my temper  to a
woman, least of all ; but that day I lost control over
myself  lost patience with her just when she was in
greatest need of my forbearance. She was nervous
and hysterical. I forgot her weakness. I spoke to
her cruelly  lashed and goaded by her causeless
jealousies  so persistent, so irritating  like the
continual dropping of water. How I have suffered

for that moment of anger God alone can know. If
remorse can be expiation, I have expiated that unpremeditated
.sin !"

"Yes, yes, I know how you have suffered. Your
dreams have told me."

Ah, those dreams ! You can never imagine
the agony of them. To fancy her walking by my
side, bright and happy, as she so seldom was upon
this earth, and to tell myself that I had never been
unkind to her, that her suicide was a dream and a
delusion, and then to feel the dull cold reality creep
back into my brain, and to know that I was guilty of
her death. Yes, I have held myself guilty. I have
never paltered with my conscience. Had I been
patient to the end, she might have lived to be the
happy mother of my child. Her whole life might
have been changed. I never loved her, Mildred.
Fate and her own impulsive nature flung her into
my arms ; but I accepted the charge ; I made myself
responsible to God and my own conscience for her
well-being."

Mildred's only answer was a sob. She stretched
out her hand, and laid it falteringly upon the hand

that hung loose across the branch of the yew, as if
in token of trustfulness.

Did you find out anything more in your retrospective
groping  at Nice ?" he asked, with a touch
of bitterness.

She was silent.

Did you hear that I was out of my mind after
my wife's death ?"

"Yes."

Did that shock you ? Did it horrify you to
know you had lived fourteen years with a ci-devant
lunatic ?"

George, how can you say such things ! I
could perfectly understand how your mind was
affected by that dreadful event  how the strongest
brain might be unhinged by such a sorrow. I can
sympathise with you, and understand you in the
past as I can in the present. How can you forget
that I am your wife, a part of yourself, able to read
all your thoughts ?"

I cannot forget that you have been my wife ;
but your sympathy and your affection seem very far
off now  as remote almost as that tragedy which

darkened my youth. It is all past and done with 
the sorrow and pain, the hope and gladness. I have
done with everything  except my regret for my
child."

Can you believe that I feel the parting less than
you, George ?" she asked piteously.

*' I don't know. The parting is your work. You
have the satisfaction of self-sacrifice  the pride which
women who go to church twice a day have in renouncing
earthly happiness. They school themselves
first in trifles  giving up this and that  theatres,
fiction, cheerful society  and then their ambition
widens. These petty sacrifices are not enough, and
they renounce a husband and a home. If the husband
cannot see the necessity, and cannot kiss the
rod, so much the worse for him. His wife has the
perverted pride of an Indian widow who flings her
young life upon the funeral pile, jubilant at the
thought of her own exalted virtue."

Would you not sacrifice your happiness to your
conscience, George, if conscience spoke plainly?"
Mildred asked reproachfully.

I don't know. Human love might be too strong

for conscience. God knows I would not have sacrificed
you to a scruple  to a law made by man.
God's laws are different. There is no doubt about
them."

The evening was darkening. The nightingale
burst out suddenly into loud melody, more joyous
than her reputation. Mildred could see the lights
in the house that had been her home. The lamplight
in the drawing-room shone across the intervening
space of lawn and shrubberies; the broad
window shone vividly at the end of a vista, like a
star. lovely room, happy life ; so far off, so
impossible for evermore !

Good-night and good-bye," Mildred sighed,
holding out her hand.

Good-bye," he answered, taking the small cold
hand, only to let it drop again.

He made no inquiry as to how she had come
there, or whither she was going. She had appeared
to him suddenly as a spirit in the soft eventide, and
he let her go from him unquestioned, as if she had
been a spirit. She felt the coldness of her dismissal,
and yet felt that it could be no otherwise. She must

be all to him or nothing. After love so perfect as
theirs had been there could be no middle course.

She went across the meadow by the way she had
come, and through the village street, where all the
doors were closed at this hour, and paraffin-lamps
glowed brightly in parlour-windows. Dear little
humble street, how her heart yearned over it as she
went silently by like a ghost, closely veiled, a slender
figure dressed in black ! She had been very fond of
her villagers, had entered into their lives and been a
brightening influence for most of them, she and her
child. Lola had been familiar with every creature in
the place, from the humpbacked cobbler at the corner
to the gray-haired postmaster in the white half-timbered
cottage yonder, where the letter-boxes were
approached by a narrow path across a neat little
garden. Lola had entered into all their lives, and
had been glad and sorry with them with a power of
sympathy which was the only precocious element in
her nature. She had been a child in all things
except charity ; there she had been a woman.

There was a train for Salisbury in half-an-hour,
and there was a later train at ten o'clock. Mildred

had intended to travel at the earlier hour, but she
felt an irresistible inclination to linger in the beloved
place where her happiness was buried. She
wanted to see some one who would talk to her of her
husband, and she knew that the curate could be
trusted; so she determined upon waiting for the
later train, in the event of her finding Mr. Eollinson
at home.

The paraffin-lamp in the parlour over the carpenter's
shop was brighter than any other in the
village, and Mr. Robinson's shadow was reflected on
the blind, with the usual tendency towards caricature.
The carpenter's wife, who opened the door, was an old

friend of Mrs. Greswold's, and was not importunate

in her expressions of surprise and pleasure.

Please do not mention to any one that I have

been at Enderby, Mrs. Mason," Mildred said quietly.

I am only here for an hour or two on my way to

Salisbury. I should like to see Mr. Rollinson, if

he is disengaged."

Of course he is, ma'am, for you. He'll be

overjoyed to see you, I'm sure."

Mrs. Mason bustled up the steep little staircase.

followed closely by Mildred. She flung open the
door with a flourish, and discovered Mr. Eollinson
enjoying a tea-dinner, with the Times propped up
between his plate and the teapot.

He started to his feet at sight of his visitor like
a man distraught, darted forward and shook hands
with Mildred, then glanced despairingly at the table.
For such a guest he would have liked to have had
turtle and ortolans ; but a tea-dinner, a vulgar tea-dinner
 a dish of pig's trotters, a couple of new-laid
eggs, and a pile of buttered toast ! He had thought
it a luxurious meal when he sat down to it, five
minutes ago, very sharp set.

My dear Mrs. Greswold, I am enchanted. You
have been travelling ? Yes. If  if you would share
my humble collation  but you are going to dine at
the Manor, no doubt."

No ; I am not going to the Manor. I should
be very glad of a cup of tea, if I may have one with
you."

** Mrs. Mason, a fresh teapot, directly, if you
please."

"Yes, sir."

VOL. III. M

And could you not get some dinner for Mrs.
Greswold ? A sole and a chicken, a little asparagus.
I saw a bundle in the village the day before yesterday,"
suggested the curate feebly.

'eon no account. I could not eat any dinner. I
will have an egg and a little toast, if you please,"
said Mildred, seeing the curate's distressed look, and
not wishing to reject his hospitality.

Will you really, now? Mrs. Mason's eggs are
excellent; and she makes toast better than anyone
else in the world, I think," replied Rollinson,
flinging his napkin artfully over the trotters, and
with a side glance at Mrs. Mason which implored
their removal.

That admirable woman grasped the situation.
She whisked off the dish, and the curate's plate with
its litter of bones and mustard. She swept away
crumbs, tidied the tea-tray, brought a vase of spring
flowers from a cheffonier to adorn the table, lighted
a pair of wax candles on the mantelpiece, and gave
a touch of elegance to the humble sitting-room,
while Mildred was taking off her mantle and bonnet,
and sinking wearily into Mr. Rollinson's easy-chair

by the hearth, There a basket of fir-cones replaced
the winter fire.

She felt glad to be with this old familiar friend
glad to breathe the very air of Enderby after her
six months' exile.

Your letter frightened me," she said, when
she was alone with the curate. " I came to look
at my husband. I could not help coming."

Ah, dear Mrs. Greswold, if you could only
come back for good  nothing else is of any use.
Have you seen him ?"

"Yes," she sighed.

"And you find him sadly changed?"

Sadly changed. I wish you would try to rouse
him  to interest him in farming  building  politics
anything. He is so clever ; he ought to have so
many resources."

"For his mind, perhaps; but not for his heart.
You are doing all you can to break that."

Mildred turned her head aside with a weary
movement, as of a creature at bay.

Don't talk about it. You cannot understand.

You look up to Clement Cancellor, I think. You
would respect his opinion."

Yes ; he is a good man."

He is  and he approves the course I have
taken. He is my confidant and my counsellor."

You could have no hotter adviser in a case of
conscience  yet I can hut regret my friend's ruined
life, all the same. But I will say no more, Mrs.
Greswold. I will respect your reserve."

Mrs. Mason came hustling in with a tea-tray, on
which her family teapot  the silver teapot that had
been handed down from generation to generation
since the days of King George the Third  and her
very best pink and gold china sparkled and glittered
in the lamp-light. The toast and eggs might
have tempted an anchorite, and Mildred had eaten
nothing since her nine-o'clock breakfast. The strong
tea revived her like good old wine, and she sat
resting and listening with interest to Mr. Robinson's
account of his parishioners, and the village chronicle
of the last six months. How sweet it was to hear
the old familiar names, to be in the old place, if only
for a brief hour !

"I wonder if they miss me?" she speculated.
'* They never seemed quite the same  after  after
the fever."

'' Ah, but they know your value now. They
have missed you sadly, and they have missed your
husband's old friendly interest in their affairs. He
has given me carte blanche, and there has been no
one neglected, nothing left undone ; but they miss the
old personal relations, the friendship of past days.
You must not think that the poor care only for
creature comforts and substantial benefits."

"I have never thought so. And now tell me
all you can about my husband. Does he receive no
one ?"

'' No one. People used to call upon him for a
month or two after you left, but he never returned
their visits, he declined all invitations, and he made
his friends understand pretty clearly that he had done
with the outside world. He rarely comes to
the eleven-o'clock service on Sundays, but he comes
to the early services, and I believe he walks into
Romsey sometimes for the evening service. He has
not hardened his heart against his God."

**Do you Bee him often?"

About once a week. I take him my report of
the sick and poor. I believe he is as much interested
in that as he can be in anything ; but I always feel
that my society is a burden to him, in spite of
his courteousness. I borrow a book from him sometimes,
so as to have an excuse for spending a few
minutes with him when I return it."

You are a good man, Mr. Kollinson, a true
friend," said Mildred, in a low voice.

Would to God that my friendship could do more
for him ! Unhappily it can do so little."

The fly came back for Mildred at nine o'clock.
She had telegraphed from Brighton to the inn at
Salisbury where she was to spend the night, and her
room was ready for her when she arrived thereat
half-past ten ; a spacious bedroom with a four-post
bed, in which she lay broad awake all night, living
over and over again that scene beside the grave, and
seeing her husband's gloomy face, and its mute
reproach. She knew that she had done wrong
in breaking in upon his solitude, she who renounced
the tie that bound her to him ; and yet there had

been something gained. He knew now that under
no stress of evidence could she ever believe him
guilty of his wife's death. He knew that his last
and saddest secret was revealed to her, and that she
was loyal to him still  loyal although divided.

She went to the morning service at the Cathedral.
She lingered about the grave old Close, looking
dreamily in at .the gardens which had such an air of
old-world peace. She was reluctant to leave Salisbury.
It was near all that she had loved and lost.
The place had the familiar air of the district in which
she had lived so long  different in sometime from all
other places, or seeming different] by fond association.

She telegraphed to her aunt that she might be
late in returning, and lingered on till three o'clock in
the afternoon, and then took the train, which dawdled
at three or four stations before it came to Bishopstoke
the familiar junction where the station-master and
the superintendents knew her, and asked after her
husband's health, giving her a pain at her heart with
each inquiry. She would have been glad to pass
to the Portsmouth train unrecognised, but it was
not to be.

You have been in the South all the winter, I
hear, madam. I hope it was not on account of your
health?"

"Yes," she faltered, " partly on that account,"
as she hurried on to the carriage which the stationmaster
opened for her with his own hand.

His face was among her home faces. She had
travelled up and down the line very often in the good
days that were gone  with her husband and Lola,
and their comfort had been cared for almost as if
they had been royal personages.

It was night when she reached Brighton, and
Franz was on the platform waiting for her, and the
irreproachable brougham was drawn up close by, the
brown horse snorting, and with eyes of fire, not
brooking the vicinity of the engine, though too grand
a creature to know fear.

She found Miss Fausset in low spirits.

I have missed you terribly," she said. " I ama
poor creature. I used to think myself independent
of sympathy or companionship  but that is all over
now. When I am alone for two days at a stretch I
feel like a child in the dark."

You have lived too long in this house, aunt,
I think," Mildred answered gently. ** Forgive me
if I say that it is a dull house."

A dull house ? Nonsense, Mildred ! It is one
of the hest houses in Brighton."

"Yes, yes, aunt, hut it is dull, all the same.
The sun does not shine into it ; the colouring of the
furniture is gray and cold  "

*'I hate gaudy colours."

Yes, hut there are beautiful colours that are not
gaudy  beautiful things that warm and gladden one.
The next room," glancing back at the front drawing-room
and its single lamp, " is full of ghosts. Those
long white curtains, those faint gray walls, are enough
to kill you."

** I am not so fanciful as that."

Ah, hut you are fanciful, perhaps without
knowing it. The influence of this dull gray house
may have crept into your veins and depressed you
unawares. Will you go to the Italian Lakes with
me next September, aunt ? Or, better, will you goto
the West of England with me next week  to the
north coast of Cornwall, which wil be lovely at this

season ? I am sure you want change. This monotonous
life is killing you."

No, no, Mildred. There is nothing amiss with
my life. It suits me well enough, and I am able todo
good."

Your lieutenants could carry on all that while
you were away."

No ; I like to he here ; I like to organise, to
arrange. I can feel that my life is not useless, that
my talent is placed at interest."

"It could all go on, aunt; it could indeed.
The change to new scenes would revive you."

** No. I am satisfied where I am. I am among
people whom I like, and who like and respect me."

She dwelt upon the last words with unction, as
if there were tangible comfort in them.

Mildred sighed and was silent. She had felt it
her duty to try and rouse her aunt from the dull
apathy into which she seemed gradually sinking, and
she thought that the only chance of revival was to
remove her from the monotony of her present existence.


Later on in the evening the fire had been lighted

in the inner drawing-room, Miss Fausset feeling
chilly, in spite of the approach of summer, and aunt
and niece drew near the hearth for cheerfulness and
comfort. The low reading-lamp spread its light only
over Miss Fausset's book-table and the circle in
which it stood. The faces of both women were in
shadow, and the lofty room with its walls of books
was full of shadows.

*you talk so despondently of life sometimes,
aunt, as if it had been all disappointment," said
Mildred, after a long silence, in which they had both
sat watching the fire, each absorbed by her own
thoughts; "yet your girlhood must have been
bright. I have heard my dear father say how indulgent
his father was, how he gave way to his children
in everything."

"Yes, he was very indulgent ; too indulgent perhaps.
I had my own way in everything ; only  one's
own way does not always lead to happiness. Mine
did not. I might have been a happier woman if
my father had been a tyrant."

You would have married, perhaps, in that case,
to escape from an unhappy home. I wish you

would tell me more about your girlish years, aunt.
You must have had many admirers when you were
young, and amongst them all there must have been
some one for whom you cared  just a little. Would
it hurt you to talk to me about that old time ?"

Yes, Mildred. There are some women who
can talk about such things  women who can prose
for hours to their granddaughters or their nieces 
simpering over the silliness of the past  boasting
of conquests which nobody believes in ; for it is very
difficult to realise the fact that an old woman was ever
young and lovely. I am not of that temper, Mildred.
The memory of my girlhood is hateful to me."

"Ah, then there was some sad story  some
unhappy attachment. I was sure it must have been
so," said Mildred, in a low voice. " But tell me of
that happier time before you went into society  the
time when you were in Italy with your governess,
studying at the Conservatoire at Milan. I thought
of you so much when I was at Milan the other
day."

"I have nothing to tell about that time. I was
a foreigner in a strange city, with an elderly woman

who was paid to take care of me, and whose chief
occupation was to take care of herself: a solicitor's
widow, whose health required that she should winter
in the South, and who contrived to make my father
pay handsomely for her benefit."

And you were not happy at Milan ?"

Happy! no. I got on with my musical education
 that was all I cared for."

Had you no friends  no introductions to nice
people ?"

"No. My chaperon made my father believe
that she knew all the best families in Milan, but
her circle resolved itself into a few third-rate musical
people who gave shabby little evening-parties.
You bore me to death, Mildred, when you force me
to talk of that time, and of that woman, whom I
hated."

Forgive me, aunt, I will ask no more questions,"
said Mildred, with a sigh.

She had been trying to get nearer to her kinswoman,
' to familiarise herself with that dim past
when this fading life was fresh and full of hope.
It seemed to her as if there was a dead wall between

her and Miss Fausset  a barrier of reserve which
should not exist between those who were so
near in blood. She had made up her mind to stay
with her aunt to the end, to do all that duty and
affection could suggest, and it troubled her that they
should still be strangers. After this severe repulse
she could make no further attempt. There was
evidently no softening influence in the memory of
the past. Miss Fausset's character, as revealed by
that which she concealed rather than by that which
she told, was not beautiful. Mildred could but
think that she had been a proud, cold-hearted young
woman, valuing herself too highly to inspire love or
sympathy in others ; electing to be alone and
unloved.

After this, time went by in a dull monotony.
The same people came to see Miss Fausset day after
day, and she absorbed the same flatteries, accepted
the same adulation, always with an air of deepest
humility. She organised her charities, she listened
to every detail about the circumstances, and even the
mental condition and spiritual views of her poor. Mildred
discovered before long that there was a leaven of

hardness in her benevolence. She could not tolerate
sin, she weighed every life in the same balance, she
expected exceptional purity amidst foulest surroundings.
She was liberal of her worldly goods ; but
her mind was as narrow as if she had lived in a
remote village a hundred years ago. Mildred found
herself continually pleading for wrong-doers.

The only event or excitement which the bright
June days brought with them was the arrival of
Pamela Kansome, who was escorted to Brighton by
Lady Lochinvar herself, and who had been engaged
for the space of three weeks to Malcolm Stuart, with
everybody's consent and approval.

I wrote to Uncle George the very day I was
engaged, aunt, as well as to you ; and he answered
my letter in the sweetest way, and he is going to
give me a grand piano," said Pamela, all in a breath.

Lady Lochinvar explained that, much as she
detested London, she had felt it her solemn duty to
establish herself there during her nephew's engagement,
in order that she might become acquainted
with Pamela's people, and assist her dear boy in all
his arrangements for the future. When a young

man marries a nice girl with an estate worth fifteen
hundred a year  allowing for the poor return made
by land nowadays  everything ought to go upon
velvet. Lady Lochinvar was prepared to make
sacrifices, or, in other words, to contribute a handsome
portion of that fortune which she intended to
bequeath to her nephew. She could afford to be
generous, having a surplus far beyond her possible
needs, and she was very fond of Malcolm Stuart,
who had been to her as a son.

I was quite alone in the world when my husband
died," she told Mildred. "My father and my
own people were all gone, and I should have been a
wretched creature without Malcolm. He was the
only son of Lochinvar's favourite sister, who went
off in a decline when he was eight years old, and he
had been brought up at the Castle. So it is natural,
you see, that I should be fond of him and interested
in his welfare."

Pamela kissed her, by way of commentary.

"I think you are quite the dearest thing in the
world," she said, " except Aunt Mildred."

It may be seen from this remark that the elder

and younger lady were now on very easy terms.
Mildred had stayed in Paris with Lady Lochinvar,
and a considerable part of her trousseau, the outward
and Visible part, had been chosen in the ateliers of
fashionable Parisian dressmakers and man milliners.
The more humdrum portion of the bride's raiment
was to be obtained at Brighton, where Pamela was
to spend a week or two with her aunt before she
went to London to stay with the Mountfords, who
had taken a house in Grosvenor Gardens, from which
Pamela was to be married.

And where do you think we are to be married,
aunt ?" exclaimed Pamela excitedly.

*eat St. George's?"

Nothing so humdrum. "We are going to be
married in the Abbey  in Westminster Abbey  the
burial-place of heroes and poets. I happened to say
one day when Malcolm and I were almost strangers
it was at Kumpelmeyer's, sitting outside in the
sun, eating ices  that I had never seen a wedding
in the Abbey, and that I should love to see one ; and
Malcolm said we must try and manage it some day
meaning anybody's wedding, of course, though he

VOL. III. N

pretends now that he always meant to marry me
there himself."

Presumptions on his part," said Mildred,
smiling.

0, young men are horribly presumptions ; they
know they are in a minority  there is so little competition
 rand a plain young man, too, like Malcolm.
But I suppose he knows he is nice," added Pamela
conclusively.

Don't you think it will be lovely for me to be
married in the Abbey ?" she asked presently.

"I think, dear, in your case I would rather have
been married from my own house, and in a village
church."

*what, in that poky little church at Maple-down
? I believe it is one of the oldest in England,
and it is certainly one of the ugliest. Sir Henry
Montfort suggested making a family business of
it ; but Kosalind and I were both in favour of the
Abbey. We shall get much better notices in the
society papers," added Pamela, with a business-like
air, as if she had been talking about the production
of a new play.

*' Well, dear, as I hope you are only to be married
once in your life, you have a right to choose your
church."

Pamela was bitterly disappointed presently when
her aunt refused to be present at her wedding.

I will spend an hour with you on your wedding
morning, and see you in your wedding-gown, if you
like, Pamela; but I cannot go among a crowd of gay
people, or share in any festivity. I have done withall
those things, dear, for ever and ever."

Pamela's candid eyes filled with tears. She felt
all the more sorry for her aunt, because her own cup
of happiness was overflowing. She looked round
the silver-gray drawing-room, and her eyes fixed
themselves on the piano which he had played, so
often, so often, in the tender twilight, in the shadowy
evening when that larger room was left almost without
any light save that which cams through the
undraped archway yonder. But Castellani was no
longer a person to be thought of in italics. From
the moment Pamela's eyes had opened to the excellence
of Mr. Stuart's manly and straightforward
character, they had also become aware of the Italian's

deficiencies. She had realised the fact that he was
a charlatan ; and now she looked wonderingly at the
piano, at a loss to understand the intensity of bygone
emotions, and inclined to excuse herself upon
the ground of youthful foolishness.

*' What a silly romantic wretch I must have
been!" she thought ; " a regular Rosa Matilda ! As
if the happiness of life depended upon one's husband
having an ear for music!"

Mildred was by no means unsympathetic about
the trousseau, although she herself had done withall
interest in fashion and finery. She drove about
to the pretty Brighton shops with Pamela, and exercised
a restraining influence upon that young lady's
taste, which inclined to the florid. She sympathised
with the young lady's anxiety about her wedding-gown,
which was to be made by a certain Mr.
Smithson, a faiseur who held potent sway over the
ladies of fashionable London, and who gave himself
more airs than a Prime Minister. Mr. Smithson
had consented to make Miss Ransome a wedding-gown
 despite her social insignificance and the

pressure of the season  provided that he were not
worried about the affair.

If I have too many people calling upon me, or
am pestered with letters, I shall throw the thing
up," he told Lady Montfort one morning, when
she took him some fine old rose-point for the petticoat.
"Yes, this lace is pretty good. I suppose
you got it in Venice. I have seen Miss Ransome,
and I know what kind of gown she can wear. It
will be sent home the day before the wedding."

With this assurance, haughtily given, Lady
Montfort and her sister had to be contented.

*' If I were your sister I would let a woman in
Tottenham Court Road make my gowns rather than
I would stand such treatment," said Sir Henry ; at
which his wife shrugged her shoulders and told him
he knew nothing about it.

The cut is everything," she said. " It is worth
putting up with Smithson's insolence to arrow that
one is the best-dressed woman in the room."

But if Smithson dresses all the other women  "

He doesn't. There are very few who have the
u rage to go to him. His manners are so humiliating

 he as good as told me I had a hump  and his
prices are enormous."

"And yet you call me extravagant for giving
seventy pounds for a harl !" cried Sir Henry; "a
bird that might bring me a pot of money in prizes."

The grand question of trousseau and wedding-gown
being settled, there remained only a point of
minor importance  the honeymoon. Pamela was
in favour of that silly season being spent in some
rustic spot, far from the madding crowd, and
Pamela's lover was of her opinion in everything.


We have both seen the best part of the Continent,"
said Pamela, taking tea in Mildred's upstairs
sitting-room, which had assumed a brighter
and more home-like aspect in her occupation than
any other room in Miss Fausset's house ; ** we don't
want to rush off to Switzerland or the Pyrenees ; we
want just to enjoy each other's society and to make
our plans for the future. Besides, travelling is so
hideously unbecoming. I have seen brides with
dusty hats and smuts on their faces who would have

been miserable if they had only known what objects
they were."

I think you and Mr. Stuart are very wise in
your choice, dear," answered Mildred. "England
in July is delicious. Have you decided where to
go?"

No, we can't make up our minds. We want to
find a place that is exquisitely pretty  yet not too
far from London, so that we may run up to town
occasionally and see about our furnishing. Sir
Henry offered us Farnham, but as it is both ugly
and inconvenient I unhesitatingly refused. I don't
want to spend my honeymoon in a place pervaded by
prize pigeons."

"What do you think of the neighbourhood of
the Thames, Pamela?" asked Mildred thoughtfully.
Are you fond of boating ?"

Fond ! I adore it. I could live all my life upon
the river."

Really ! I have been thinking that if you and
Mr. Stuart would like to spend your honeymoon at
The Hook it is just the kind of place to suit you.

The bouse is bright and pretty, and the gardens are
exquisite."

Pamela's face kindled with pleasure.

But, dear aunt, you would never think  " she
began.

** The place is at your service, my dear girl. It
will be a pleasure for me to prepare everything for
you. I cannot tell you how dearly I love that house,
or how full of memories it is for me. The lease of
my father's house in Parchment Street was sold
after his death, and I only kept a few special things
out of the furniture, but at The Hook nothing has
been altered since I was a child."

Pamela accepted the offer with rapture, and wrote
an eight-page letter to her lover upon the subject,
although he was coming to Brighton next day, and
was to dine in Lewes Crescent. Mildred was pleased
at being able to give so much pleasure to her husband's
niece. It may be also that she snatched
at an excuse for revisiting a spot she fondly
loved.

She offered to take Pamela with her, to explore
the house and gardens, and discuss any small

arrangements for the bride's comfort, but against this
Miss Kansome protested.

"I want everything to be new to us," she said,
"all untrodden ground, a delicious surprise. I am
sure the place is lovely ; and I want to know no more
about it than I know of fairyland. I haven't the
faintest notion what a Hook can be in connection
with the Thames. It may be a mountain or a
glacier, for anything I know to the contrary ; but I
am assured it is delightful. Please let me know
nothing more, dearest aunt, till I go there with
Malcolm. It is adorable of you to hit upon such a
splendid idea. And it will look very well in the
society papers," added Pamela, waxing businesslike.
"'Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Stuart!' (0, how
queer that sounds !) * are to spend their honeymoon
at The Hook, the riverside residence of the bride's
aunt.' I wonder whether they will say ' the well-known
residence ' ? " mused Pamela.

Mildred went up to town with Miss Ransome
and her betrothed at the end of the young lady's
visit. Miss Fausset had been coldly gracious, after
her manner, had allowed Mr. Stuart to come to her

THE FATAL THREE.

house whenever he pleased, and had given up the
rarely-used front drawing-room to the lovers, who
sat and whispered and tittered over their own little
witticisms, hy the distant piano, and behaved
altogether like those proverbial children of whom
we are told in our childhood, who are seen but not
heard. Mildred lunched in Grosvenor Gardens,
and went to Chertsey by an afternoon train. The
housekeeper who had once ruled over both Mr.
Fausset's houses, subject to interference from Bell,
was now caretaker at The Hook, with a housemaid
under her. She was an elderly woman, but considerably
Bell's junior, and she was an admirable
cook and manager. A telegram two days before
had told her to expect her mistress, and the house
was in perfect order when Mrs. Greswold arrived in
the summer twilight. All things had been made to
look as if the place were in family occupation, though
no one but the two servants had been living
there since Mr. Fausset's death. The familiar aspect
of the rooms smote Mildred with a sudden unexpected
pain. There were the old lamps burning on
the tables, the well-remembered vases  her mother's

choice, and always artistic in form and colour 
filled with the old June flowers from garden and
hothouse. Her father's chair stood in its old place
in the hay-window in front of the table at which
he used to write his letters sometimes, looking out
at the river between whiles. Mrs. Dawson had
put a lamp in his study, a small room opening out
of the drawing-room, and with windows on two sides,
and both looking towards the river, which he had
loved so well. The windows were open in the twilight,
and the rose-garden was like a sea of bloom.

In her father's room nothing was altered. As it
had been in the last days he had lived there, so it
was now.

"I haven't moved so much as a penholder,
ma'am," said Dawson tearfully.

LITERA SCRIPTA MANET.

The house and grounds were in such perfect order
that there was very little to be done in the way of
preparation for the honeymoon visitors. Even the
pianos had been periodically tuned, and the clocks
had been regularly wound. Two or three servants
would have to be engaged for the period, and that
was all ; and even this want Mrs. Dawson proposed
to supply without going off the premises.

The housemaid had a sister, who was an accomplished
parlour maid and carver ; the under-gardener's
eldest daughter was pining for a preliminary
canter in the kitchen, and the gardener's wife was a
retired cook, and would be delighted to take all the
rougher part of the cooking, while Mrs. Dawson
devoted her art to those pretty tiny kickshaws in
which she excelled. There were peaches ripening
in the peach-house, and the apricots were going to

be a show. There was wine in the cellar that would
have satisfied an alderman on his honeymoon.
Mildred's business at The Hook might have been
completed in a day, yet she lingered there for a
week, and still lingered on, loving the place with a
love which was mingled with pain, yet happier there
than she could have been anywhere else in the
world, she thought.

The chief gardener rowed her about the river,
never going very far from home, but meandering
about the summer stream, by flowery meadows,
and reedy eyots, and sometimes diverging into a
tributary stream, where the shallow water seemed
only an excuse for wild flowers. He had rowed her
up and down those same streams when she was a
child with streaming hair and he was the under-gardener.
He had rowed her about in that brief
summer season when Fay was her companion.

She revisited all those spots in which she had
wandered with her lover. She would land here or
there along the island, and as she remembered each
particular object in the landscape, her feet seemed
to grow light again, with the lightness of joyous

youth, as they touched the familiar shore. It was
almost as if her youth came hack to her.

Thus it was that she lingered from day to day,
loth to leave the beloved place. She wrote frankly
to her aunt, saying how much good the change of
air and scene had done her, and promising to return
to Brighton in a few days. She felt that it was her
duty to resume her place beside that fading existence
; and yet it was an infinite relief to her to
escape from that dull gray house, and the dull gray
life. She acknowledged to herself that her aunt's
life was a good life, full of unselfish work and large
charity, and yet there was something that repelled
her, even while she admired. It was too much like
a life lived up to a certain model, adjusted line by
line to a carefully studied plan. There was a lack
of spontaneity, a sense of perpetual effort. The
benevolence which had made Enderby village like
one family in the sweet time that was gone had been
of a very different character. There had been the
warmth of love and sympathy in every kindness of
George Greswold's, and there had been infinite pity
for wrong-doers. Miss Fausset's almsgiving was

after the fashion of the Pharisee of old, and it
was upon the amount given that she held herself
justified before God, not upon the manner of
giving.

In those quiet days, spent alone in her old home,
Mildred had chosen to occupy Mr. Fausset's study
rather than the large bright drawing-room. The
smaller room was more completely associated with
her father. It was here  seated in the chair before
the writing-table, where she was sitting now  that
he had first talked to her of George Greswold, and
had discussed her future life, questioning his motherless
girl with more than a father's tenderness about
the promptings of her own heart. She loved the
room and all that it contained for the sake of the
cherished hands that had touched these things, and
the gentle life that had been lived here. There had
been but one error in his life, she thought  his treatment
of Fay.

"He ought not to have sent her away," she
thought ; " he saw us happy together, his two
daughters, and he ought not to have divided us, and
sent her away to a loveless life among strangers.

If he had only been frank and straightforward with
my mother she might have forgiven all."

Might, perhaps. Mildred was not sure upon that
point ; but she felt very sure that it was her father's
duty to have braved all consequences rather than
to have sent his unacknowledged child into exile.
That fact of not acknowledging her seemed in itself
such a tremendous cruelty that it intensified every
lesser wrong.

Mrs. Dawson understood her mistress's fancy crier
father's room, and Mildred's meals were served
here, at a Sutherland-table in the bay-window, from
which she could see the boats go by, Mrs. Dawson
having a profound belief in the efficacy of the boats
as a cure for low spirits.

*' People sometimes tell me it must be dull at
The Hook," she said ; " but, lor ! they don't know
how many boats go by in summer-time. It's almost
as gay as Bond Street'*

Mildred lived alone with old memories in the
flower-scented room, where the Spanish blinds made
a cool and shadowy atmosphere, while the roses outside
were steeped in sunshine. Those few days

were just the most perfect summer days of the year.
She felt sorry that they had not been reserved for
Pamela's honeymoon. Such sunshine was almost
wasted on her, whose heart was so full of sadness.

It was her last afternoon at The Hook, or the
afternoon which she meant to be her last, having
made up her mind to go back to Brighton and duty
on the following day, and she had a task before hera
task which she had delayed from day to day, just
as she had delayed her return to her aunt.

She had to put away those special and particular
objects which had belonged to her father and mother,
and had been a part of their lives. These were too
sacred to be left about now that strangers were to
occupy the rooms of the dead. Hitherto no stranger
had entered those rooms since John Fausset's death,
nothing had been removed or altered. No documents
relating to property or business of any kind
had been kept at The Hook. Mr. Fausset's affairs
had all been put in perfect order after his wife's
death, and there had been no ransacking for missing
title-deeds or papers of any kind. It had been
understood that all papers and letters of importance

VOL. III. o

were either with Mr. Fausset's solicitors or at the
house in Parchment Street, and thus the household
gods had been undisturbed in the summer retreat by
the river.

Mildred had spent the morning in her mother's
rooms, putting away all those dainty trifles and
prettiness which had gathered round the frivolous,
luxurious life, as shells and bright-coloured weeds
gather among the low rocks on the edge of the sea.
She had placed everything carefully in a large closet
in her mother's dressing-room, covered with much
tissue-paper, secure from dust and moth; and now
she began the same kind of work in her father's
room, the work of removing all those objects which
had been especially his : the old-fashioned silver
inkstand, the well-worn scarlet morocco blotting-book,
with his crest on the cover, and many ink-spots
on the leather lining inside, his beholders
and penknives, and a little velvet pen-wiper which
she had made for him when she was ten years old,
rnd which he had kept on his table ever afterwards.

She looked round the room thoughtfully for a
place of security for these treasures. She had spent

a good deal of time in rearranging her father's
books, which careful and conscientious dusting had
reduced to a chaotic condition Now every volume
was in its place, just as he had kept them in the old
days when it had been her delight to examine the
shelves and to carry away a book of her father's
choosing.

The bookcases were by Chippendale, with fretwork
cornices and mahogany panelling. The lower
part was devoted to cupboards, which her father had
always kept under lock and key, but which she supposed
to contain only old magazines, pamphlets, and
newspapers, part of that vast mass of literature
which is kept with a view to being looked at some
day, and which finally drifts unread to the bourne of
all waste paper, and is ground into pulp again, and
rolls over the endless web again, and comes back
upon the world printed with more intellectual food
for the million of skippers and skimmers.

Yes, one of those mahogany panelled cupboards
would serve Mildred's purpose admirably. She
selected a key from one of the bunches in her key-box,
and opened the cupboard nearest the door.

It was packed tight with rm/ Lists, New Monthly
Magazines, and Edinburgh Reviews  packed so well
that there was scarcely an interstice that would hold
a pin. She opened the next cupboard. Sporting
Magazine, Blackwood, Ainsworth, and a pile of
pamphlets. No room there.

She opened the third, and found it much more
loosely packed, with odd newspapers, and old Prayer
Books and Bibles : shabby, old-fashioned books,
which had served for the religious exercises of
several generations of Faussets, and had been
piously preserved by the owner of The Hook.
There was room here perhaps for the things in the
writing-table, if all these books and papers were
rearranged and closely packed.

Mildred began her work patiently. She was in
no hurry to have done with her task ; it brought her
nearer to her beloved dead. She worked slowly,
dreamily almost, her thoughts dwelling on the days
that were gone.

She took out the Prayer Books and Bibles oneby
one, looking at a fly-leaf now and then. John
Fausset, from his loving mother, on the day of his

confirmation, June 17, 1835 ; Lucy Jane Fausset,
with her sister Maria's love, April 3, 1804 ; Mark
Fausset, in memory of little Charlie, December 1,
1807. Such inscriptions as these touched her, with
their reminiscences of vanished affection, of hearts
long mingled with the dust.

She put the books on one side in a little pile on
the carpet, as she knelt before the open cupboard,
and then she began to move the loose litter of
newspapers. The Morning Herald, the Morning
Chronicle, the Sun. Even these were of the dead.

The cupboard held much more than she had
expected. Behind the newspapers there were two
rows of pigeons-holes, twenty-six in all, filled 
choke-full, some of them  with letters, folded longwise,
in a thoroughly business-like manner.

Old letters, old histories of the family heart and
mind, how much they hold to stir the chords of love
and pain ! Mildred's hand trembled as she stretched
it out to take one of those letters, idly, full of
morbid curiosity about those relics of a past life.

She never knew whether it had been deliberation
or hazard which guided her hand to the sixth pigeon-hole,

but she thought afterwards that her eye must
have been caught by a bit of red ribbon  a spot of
bright colour  and that her hand followed her eye
mechanically. However this may have been, the
first thing that she took from the mass of divers
correspondence in the twenty six pigeon-holes was
a packet of about twenty letters tied with a red
ribbon.

Each letter was carefully indorsed " M. F." and
a date. Some were on foreign paper, others on
thick gilt-edged note. A glance at the uppermost
letter showed her a familiar handwriting  her
aunt's, but very different from Miss Fausset's present
precise penmanship. The writing here was more
hurried and irregular, bolder, larger, and more
indicative of impulse and emotion.

No thought of possible wrong to her aunt entered
Mildred's mind as she untied the ribbon and seated
herself in a low chair in front of the bookcase, with
the letters loose in her lap. What secrets could
there be in a girl's letters to her elder brother which
the brother's daughter might not read, nearly forty
years after they were written ? "What could there

be in that yellow paper, in that faded ink, except
the pale dim ghosts of vanished fancies, and thoughts
which the thinker had long outlived ?

I wonder whether my aunt would care to read
these old letters ?" mused Mildred. " It would belike
calling up her own ghost. She must have
almost forgotten what she was like when she wrote
them."

The first letter was from Milan, full of enthusiasm
about the Cathedral and the Conservatoire, full of
schemes for work. She was practising six hours a
day, and taking nine lessons a week  four for piano,
two for singing, three for harmony. She was in
high spirits, and delighted with her life.

"I should practise eight hours a day if Mrs.
Holmby would let me," she wrote, "but she won't.
She says it would be too much for my health. I
believe it is only because my piano annoys her. I getup
at five on these summer mornings, and practise
from six to half-past eight ; then coffee and rolls,
and off to the Conservatoire ; then a drive with
Mrs. Holmby, who is too lazy to walk much ; and
then lunch. After lunch vespers at the Cathedral,

and then two hours at the piano before dinner. An
hour and a half between dinner and tea, which we
take at nine. Sometimes one of Mrs. Holmby's
friends drops in to tea. You needn't be afraid : the
men are all elderly, and not particularly clean.
They take snuff, and their complexions are like
mahogany ; but there is one old man, with bristly
gray hair standing out all over his head like a brush,
who plays the 'cello divinely, and who reminds me
of Beethoven. I am learning the * Sonate Pathetic,'
and I play Bach's preludes and fugues two hours a
day. We went to La Scala the night before last ;
but I was disappointed to find they were playing a
trumpery modern opera by a Milanese composer,
who is all the rage here."

Two or three letters followed, all in the same
strain, and then came signs of discontent.

"I have no doubt Mrs. Holmby is a highly
respectable person, and I am sure you acted for the
best when you chose her for my chaperon, but she is
a lump of prejudice. She objects to the Cathedral.
We are fully justified in making ourselves familiar
with its architectural beauties,' she said, in her

pedantic way, ' but to attend the services of that
benighted church is to worship in the groves of
Baal.' I told her that I had found neither groves
nor idols in that magnificent church, and that the
music I heard there was the only pleasure which
reconciled me to the utter dulness of my life at Milan
I was going to say my life with her, but thought
it better to be polite, as I am quite in her power till
you come to fetch me.

"Don't think that I am tired of the Conservatoire,
after teasing you so to let me come here, or
even that I am home-sick. I am only tired of Mrs.
Holmby ; and I daresay, after all, she is no worse
than any other chaperon would be. As for the Conservatoire,
I adore it, and I feel that I am making
rapid strides in my musical education. My master
is pleased with my playing of the ' Pathetic,' and
I am to take the * Erica ' next. What a privilege
it is to know Beethoven ! He seems to me now like
a familiar friend. I have been reading a memoir of
him. What a sad life  what a glorious legacy he
leaves the world which treated him so badly !

*' I play Diabelli's exercises for an hour and a

half every morning, before I look at any other
music."

In the next letter Mildred started at the appearance
of a familiar name.

** Your kind suggestion about the Opera House
has been followed, and we have taken seats at La
Scala for two nights a week. Signor Castellani's
opera is really very charming. I have heard it now
three times, and liked it better each time. There
is not much learning in the orchestration ; but there
is a great deal of melody all through the opera.
The Milanese are mad about it. Signor Castellani
came to see Mrs. Holmby one evening last week,
introduced by our gray-haired 'cello-player. He is
a clever-looking man, about five-and-thirty, with a
rather melancholy air. He writes his librettos,
and is something of a poet.

We have made a compromise about the Cathedral.
I am to go to vespers if I like, as my
theological opinions are not in Mrs. Holmby's keeping.
She will walk with me to the Cathedral, leave
me at the bottom of the steps, do her shopping or
take a gentle walk, and return for me when the

service is over. It only lasts three-quarters of an
hour, and Mrs. HolD[iby always has shopping of some
kind on her hands, as she does all her own marketing,
and buys everything in the smallest quantities. I
suppose by this means she makes more out of your
handsome allowance for my board  or fancies she
does."

There were more letters in the same strain, and
Castellani's name appeared often in relation to his
operas ; but there was no further mention of social
intercourse. The letters grew somewhat fretful intone,
and there were repeated complaints of Mrs.
Holmby. There were indications of fitful spirits 
now enthusiasm, now depression.

"I have at least discovered that lam no genius,"
she wrote. "When I attempt to improvise, the
poverty of my ideas freezes me ; and yet music with
me is a passion. Those vesper services in the
Cathedral are my only consolation in this great dull
town.

** No, dear Jack, I am not home-sick. I have
to finish my musical education. I am tired of
nothing, except Mrs. Holmby."

After this there was an interval. The next
letter was dated six months later. It was on a
different kind of paper, and it was written from
Evian, on the Lake of Geneva. Even the character
of the penmanship had altered. It had lost its
girlish dash, and something of its firmness.
The strokes were heavier, hut yet bore traces of
hesitation. It was altogether a feebler style of
writing.

The letter began abruptly :

I know that you have been kind to me, John 
kinder, more merciful than many brothers would
have been under the same miserable circumstances ;
but nothing you can do can make me anything else
than what I have made myself  the most wretched
of creatures. When I walk about in this quiet
place, alone, and see the beggars holding out their
hands to me, maimed, blind, dumb perhaps, the
very refuse of humanity, I feel that their misery is
less than mine. They were not brought up to think
highly of themselves, and to look down upon other
people, as I was. They were never petted and
admired as I was. They were not brought up to

think honour the one thing that makes life worth
living  to feel the sting of shame worse than the
sting of death. They fall into raptures if I give
them a franc  and all the wealth of the world would
not give me one hour of happiness. You tell me to
forget my misery. Forget  now ! No, I have no
wish to leave this place. I should be neither better
nor happier anywhere else. It is very quiet here.
There are no visitors left now in the neighbourhood.
There is no one to wonder who I am, or why I am
living alone here in my tiny villa. The days go by
like a long weary dream, and there are days when
the gray lake and the gray mountains are half hidden
in mist, and when all Nature seems of the
same colour as my own life.

I received the books you kindly chose for mea
large parcel. There is a novel among them which
tells almost my own story. It made me shed tears
for the first time since you left me at Lausanne.
Some people say they find a relief in tears, but my
tears are not of that kind. I was ill for nearly a week
after reading that story. Please don't send me anymore
novels. If they are about happy people they

irritate me ; if they are sorrowful stories they make
me just a shade more wretched than I am always.
If you send me books again let them be the hardest
kind of reading you can get. I hear there is a good
book on natural history by a man called Darwin. I
should like to read that.  Gratefully and affectionately
your sister, M. F."

This letter was dated October. The next was
written in November from the same address.

No, my dear John, your fears were unfounded,
I have not been ill. I wish I had been  sick unto
death ! I have been too wretched to write, that
was all. Why should I distress you with a reiteration
of my misery  and I cannot write, or think
about anything else ? I have no doubt Darwin's
book is good, but I could not interest myself in it.
The thought of my own misery comes between me
and every page I read.

You ask me what I mean to do with my life
when my dark days are over. To that question
there can but be one answer. I mean, so far as it is
possible, to forget. I shall go down to my grave
burdened with my dismal secret; but I shall exercise

every faculty I possess to keep that secret to the
end. He is not likely to betray me. The knowledge
of his own baseness will seal his lips.

Your suggestion of a future home in some
quiet village, either in England or abroad, is kindly
meant, I know, but I shudder at the mere idea of
such a life. To pass as a widow ; to have to answer
every prying acquaintance  the doctor, the clergyman
 people who would force themselves upon me,
however secluded my life might be ; to devote myself
to a duty which in every hour of my existence would
remind me of my folly and of my degradation : I
should live like the galley-slave who drags his chain
at every step.

You tell me that the tie which would be a
sorrow in the beginning might grow into a blessing.
That could never be. You know very little of a
woman's nature when you suggest such a possibility.
What can your sex know of a woman's agony
under such circumstances as mine ? You are never
made to feel the sting of dishonour."

A light began to dawn on Mildred as she read
this second letter from Evian. The first might mean

anything  an engagement broken off, a proud girl
jilted by a worthless lover, the sense of degradation
that a woman feels in having loved unwisely  in
having wasted confidence and affection upon an
unworthy object : Mildred had so interpreted that
despairing letter. But the second revealed a deeper
wound, a darker misery.

There were sentences that stood out from the
context with unmistakable meaning. " When my
dark days are over"  "to pass as a widow"  "to
devote myself to a duty which would remind me of
my folly and my degradation."

That suggestion of a secluded life  of a care
which should grow into a blessing  could mean
only one thing. The wretched girl who wrote that
letter was about to become a mother, under conditions
which meant life-long dishonour.

White as marble, and with hands that trembled
convulsively as they held the letter, Mildred Griswold
read on, hurriedly, eagerly, breathlessly, to the
last line of the last letter. She had no scruples,
no sense of wrong-doing. The secret hidden in that
little packet of letters was a secret which she had a

right to know  she above all other people, she who
had been cheated and fooled by false imaginings.

The third letter from Evian was dated late in
January :

I have been very ill  dangerously, I believe 
but my doctor took unnecessary trouble to cure me.
I am now able to go out of doors again, and I
walk by the lake for half-an-hour every day in the
morning sun. The child thrives wonderfully, I am
told ; but if there is to be a change of nurses, as
there must be  for this woman here must lose sight
of her charge and of me when I leave this place 
the change cannot be made too soon. If Bologna
is really the best place you can think of, your plan
would be to meet me with the nurse at Dijon, where
we can take the rail. We shall post from here to
that town. I am very sorry to inflict so much trouble
upon you, but it is a part of my misery to be a
burden to you as well as to myself, alien once this
incubus is safely disposed of, I shall be less troublesome
to you.

No, my dear John, there is no relenting, no
awakening of maternal love. For me that must

VOL. III. P

remain for ever a meaningless phrase. For me there
can be nothing now or ever more, except a sense of
aversion and horror  a shrinking from the very
image of the child that must never call me mother,
or know the link between us. All that can possibly
be done to sever that link I shall do ; and I entreat
you, by the love of past years, to help me in so doing.
My only chance of peace in the future is in total
severance. Eemember that I am prepared to make
any sacrifice that can secure the happiness of this
wretched being, that can make up to her  "
** That can make up to her P'
Mildred's clutch tightened upon the letter. This
was the first mention of the infant's sex.

 For the dishonour to which she is born. I
will gladly devote half my fortune to her maintenance
and her future establishment in life, if she should
grow up and marry. Eemember also that I have
sworn to myself never to entertain any proposal of
marriage, never to listen to words of love from any
man upon earth. You need have no fear of future
embarrassment on my account. I shall never give
a man the right to interrogate my past life. I resign

myself to a solitary existence  but not to a life
clouded with shame. When I go back to England
and resume my place in society, I shall try to think
of this last year of agony as if it were a bad dream.
You alone know my secret, and you can help me if
you will. My prayer is that from the hour I seethe
child transferred to the new nurse at Dijon, I
shall never look upon its face again. The nurse can
go back to her home as fast as the train will carry
her, and I can go back to London with you."

The next letter was written seven years later,
and addressed from Kensington Gore :

I suppose I ought to answer your long letter
by saying that I am glad the child has good health,
that I rejoice in her welfare, and so on. But I
cannot be such a hypocrite. It hurts me to write
about her ; it hurts me to think of her. My heart
hardens itself against her at every suggestion of her
quickness, or her prettiness, or any other merit. Tome
she can be nothing except  disgrace. I burnt
your letter the instant it was read. I felt as if
some one was looking over my shoulder as I read
it. I dared not go down to lunch for fear Mrs.

Wiustanley's searching eyes should read my secretin
my face. I pretended a headache, and stayed in
my room till our eight-o'clock dinner, when I knew
I should be safe in the dim religious light which my
chaperon affects as the most flattering to wrinkles
and pearl-powder.

"But I am not ungrateful, my dear John. I
am touched even by your kindly interest in that
unfortunate waif. I have no doubt you have done
wisely in placing her with the good old lady at
Barnes, and that she is very happy running about
the Common. I am glad I know where she is, so
that I may never drive that way, if I can possibly
help it. Your old lady must be rather a foolish
woman, I should think, to change Fanny into Fay,
on the strength of the child's airy movements and
elfin appearance ; but as long as this person knows
nothing of her charge's history her silliness cannot
matter."

A letter of a later date was addressed from Lewes
Crescent.

"I am horrified at what, you have done. 0,
John, how could you be so reckless, so forgetful of

my reiterated entreaties to keep that girls existence
wide apart from mine or yours ? And you have
actually introduced her into your own house as a
relation ; and you actually allow her to be called by
your name ! "Was ever such madness ? You stultify
all that has been done in the past. You open the
door to questionings and conjectures of the most
dreadful kind. No, I will not see her. You must
be mad to suggest such a thing. My feeling about
her to-day is exactly the same as my feeling on the
day she was born  disgust, horror, dread. I will
never  willingly  look upon her face.

Do you remember those words in Bleak House ?
*Your mother, Esther, is your disgrace, and you
were hers.' So it is with that girl and me. Can
love be possible where there is this mutual disgrace
?

*' For God's sake, get the girl out of your house
as soon as you can ! Send her to some good school
abroad  France, Germany, where you like, and save
me from the possibility of discovery. My secret
has been kept  my friends look up to me. I have
outlived the worst part of my misery, and have learnt

to take some interest in life. I could not survive
the discovery of my wretched story."

A later letter was briefer and more business-like.

*' I fully concur in the settlement you propose, and
would as willingly make the sum 40,000L as SOfiOOL
Remember that, so far as money can go, I am anxious
to do the uttermost. I hope she will marry soon, and
marry well, and that she may lead a happy and
honourable life under a new name  a name that she
can bear without a blush. I should be much relieved
if she could continue to live abroad."

This was the last letter in the bundle tied with
red ribbon. In the same pigeon-hole Mildred found
the draft of a deed of gift, transferring 30,000Z.
India Stock to Fanny Fausset, otherwise Vivien
Faux, on her twenty-first birthday, and with the
draft there were several letters from a firm of solicitors
in Lincoln's Inn Fields relating to the same
deed of gift.

The last of the letters fell from Mildred's lap as
she sat with her hands clasped before her face, dazed
by this sudden light which altered the aspect of her
life.

Fool, fool, fool !" she cried.

The thought of all she had suffered, and of the
suffering she had inflicted on the man she loved,
almost maddened her. She had condemned her
father  her generous, noble-hearted father  upon
evidence that had seemed to her incontrovertible.
She had believed in a stain upon that honourable
life  had believed him a sinner and a coward. And
Miss Fausset knew all that she had forfeited by that
fatal misapprehension, and yet kept her shameful
secret, caring for her own reputation more than for
two blighted lives.

She remembered how she had appealed to her
aunt to solve the mystery of Fay's parentage, and
how deliberately Miss Fausset had declared her
ignorance. She had advised her niece to go back
to her husband, but that was all.

Mildred gathered the letters together, tied them
with the faded ribbon, and then went to her father's
writing-table and wrote these lines, in a hand that
trembled with indignation :

"I know all the enclosed letters can tell me.
You have kept your secret at the hazard of breaking

two hearts. I know not if the wrong you have done
me can ever be set right ; but this I know, that I
shall never again enter your house, or look upon
your face, if I can help it. I am going back to my
husband, never again to leave him, if he will let me
stay. Mildred Greswold."

She packed the letters securely in one of the
large banker's envelopes out of her father's desk.
She sealed the packet with her father's crest, intending
to register and post it with her own hands
on her way to Eomsey ; and then, with a heart that
beat with almost suffocating force, she consulted
the time-table, and tried to match trains between
Reading and Basingstoke.

There was a train from Chertsey to Reading at
five. She might catch that and be home  home 
home  how the word thrilled her ! some time before
midnight. She would have gone back if it had been
to arrive in the dead of night.

MARKED BY FATE.

It was nearly ten o'clock when Mildred drove through
the village of Enderby, and saw the lights burning
in the familiar cottage windows, the post-office, and
the little fancy shop where Lola had been so constant
a purchaser in the days gone by. Her eyes
were full of tears as she looked at the humble street :
happy tears, for her heart thrilled with hope as she
drew near home.

He cannot withhold his forgiveness," she told
herself. " He knows that I acted for conscience'
sake."

Five minutes more and she was standing in the
hall, questioning the footman, who stared at her
with a bewildered air, as the most unexpected of
visitors.

Is your master at home ?" she asked.

Yes, ma'am, master's in the library. Shall I
announce you ?"

"No, no  I can find him. Help my maid to
take my things to my room."

Yes, ma'am. Have you dined, or shall I tell
cook to get something ready?"

No, no. I have dined," she answered hurriedly,
and went on to the library, to that very room
in which she had made the fatal discovery of Fay's
identity with her husband's first wife.

He was sitting in the lamp-light, just as he
was sitting that night when she fell fainting at his
feet. The windows were open to the summer night,
books were scattered about on the table, and heaped
on the floor by his side. Whatever comfort there
may be in such company, he had surrounded himself
with that comfort. He took no notice of the opening
of the door, and she was kneeling at his feet
before he knew that she was in the room.

** Mildred, what does this mean ? Have we not
parted often enough ?"

There was no reason for our parting  except
my mistaken belief. I am here to stay with you
till my death, if you will have me, George. Be
merciful to me, my dearest ! I have acted for

conscience' sake. I have been fooled, deluded by-appearances
which might have deceived any one,
however wise. Forgive me, George ; forgive me for
the sake of all I have suffered in doing what I
thought to be my duty !"

He lifted her from her knees, took her to his
heart without a word, and kissed her. There was a
silence of some moments, in which each could hear
the throbbing of the other's heart.

"You were wrong after all, then," he said at last;
Vivien was not your half-sister ?"

*' She was not."

"Whose child was she ?"

You must not ask me that, George. It is a
secret which I ought not to tell even to you. She
was cruelly used, poor girl, more cruelly even than
I thought she had been when I believed she was my
father's daughter. I have undeniable evidence as to
her parentage. She was my blood-relation, but she
was not my sister."

How did you make the discovery ?"

By accident  this afternoon at The Hook. I
found some papers and letters of my father's in a

cupboard below the bookcase. I knew nothing of
their existence  should never have thought of
searching for private papers there, for I had heard
my father often say that he kept only magazines and
pamphlets  things he called rubbish  in those cupboards.
I wanted to put away some things, and I
stumbled on a packet of letters which revealed the
secret of Fay's birth. I can come back to my duty
with a clear conscience. May I stay with you,
George ?"

May you ? Well, yes ; I suppose so'* with
another kiss and a tender little laugh. " One cannot
make a broken vase new again, but we may pick up
the pieces and stick them together again somehow.
You have taken a good many years out of my life,
Mildred, and I doubt if you can give them back
to me. I feel twenty years older than I felt before
the beginning of this trouble ; but now all is known,
and you are my wife again  well, there may be a
few years of gladness for us yet. We will make
the most of them."

All things dropped back into the old grooves at

Enderby Manor. Mrs. Greswold and her husband
were seen together at church on the Sunday morning
after Mildred's return, much to the astonishment of
the congregation, who immediately began to disbelieve
in all their own convictions and assertions of the
past half-year, and to opine that the lady had only
been in the South for her health, more especially as
it was known that Miss Ransome had been her
travelling companion.

"If she had quarrelled with her husband, she
would hardly have had her husband's niece with her
all the time," said Mrs. Porter, the doctor's wife.

But if there was no quarrel, why did he shut
himself up like a hermit, and look so wretched if one
happened to meet him?" asked somebody else.

Well, there she is, anyhow, and she looks out of
health, so you may depend some London physician
ordered her abroad. They might as well have
consulted Porter, who ought to know her constitution
by this time. He'd have ordered her to Mentor for
the winter, and saved them both a good deal of
trouble ; but there, people never think they can be
cured without going to Cavendish Square."

Mildred's strength seemed to fail her more
in the happiness of that unhoped-for reunion than it
had ever done during her banishment. She wanted
to do so much at Enderby : to visit about among her
shabby-genteel old ladies and her cottagers as in the
cloudless time before Lola's death ; to superintend
her garden ; to visit old friends whose faces were
endeared by fond association with the past; to be
everywhere with her husband : walking with him
in the copses, riding about the farms, and on the
edge of the forest, in the dewy summer mornings.
She wanted to do all these things, and she found that
her strength would not let her.

I hope that my health is not going to give way,
just when I am so happy," she said to her husband
one day, when she felt almost fainting after their
morning ride.

He took alarm instantly, and sent off for Mr.
Porter, though Mildred made light of her feelings
next moment. The family practitioner sounded her
with the usual professional gravity, but his face grew
more serious as he listened to the beating of her
heart. He affected, however, to think very little of

her ailments, talked of nerves, and suggested bromide
of something, as if it were infallible; but when
George Greswold went out into the hall with him he
owned that all was not right.

*' The heart is weak," he said. " I hope there
may be no organic mischief, but  "

"You mean that I shall lose her," interrupted
Greswold, in a husky whisper.

His own heart was beating like the tolling of a
church bell  beating with the dull, heavy stroke of
despair.

No, no. I don't think there's any immediate
danger, but I should like you to take higher advice
Clark or Jenner, perhaps."

*' Of course. I will send for some one at once."

The very thing to alarm her. She ought to be
kept free from all possible anxiety or excitement.
Don't let her ride  except in the quietest way  or
walk far enough to fatigue herself. You might take
her up to town for a few days on the pretence
of seeing picture-galleries or something, and then
coax her to consult a physician, just for your satisfaction.
Make as light as you can of her complaint."

*' Yes, yes. I understand. 0, God, that it
should be so, after all ; when I thought I had come
to the end of sorrow !" This in an undertone. " For
pity's sake, Porter, tell me the worst ! You think ita
had case ?"

Porter shook his head, tried to speak, grasped
George Greswold's hand, and made for the door. Mr.
and Mrs. Greswold had been his patients and friends
for the last fifteen years, and in his rough way he
was devoted to them.

See Jenner as soon as you can," he said. "It
is a very delicate case. I would rather not hazard
an opinion."

George Greswold went out to the lawn where he
had sat on the Sunday evening before Lola's death.
It had been summer then, and it was summer now 
the time of roses, before the song of the nightingale
had ceased amidst the seclusion of twilit branches.
He sat down upon the bench under the cedar, and
gave himself up to his despair. He had tasted again
the sweet cup of domestic peace  he had been gladdened
again by the only companionship that had
ever filled his heart, and now in the near future he

saw the prospect of another parting, and this time
without hope on earth. Once again he told himself
that he was marked out by Fate.

"I suppose it must always be so," he thought ;
*' in the lots that fall from the urn there must be
some that are all of one colour  black  black as
night."

Mildred came out to the lawn with him, followed
by Kassandra, who had deserted the master for the
mistress since her return, as if in a delight mixed
with fear lest she should again depart.

What has become of you, George ? I thought
you were coming back to the morning-room directly,
and it is nearly an hour since Mr. Porter went away."

I came into the garden  to  to see your new
shrubbery."

*' Did you really ? how good of you ! It is
hardly to be called a new shrubbery  only a little
addition to the old one. It will give an idea of distance
when the shrubs are good enough to grow tall
and thick. Will you come with me and tel me
what you think of it ?"

*' Gladly, dear, if it will not tire you."

VOL. ni. Q

*' Tire me to walk to the shrubbery ! No, I am
not quite so bad as that, though I find I am a bad
walker compared with what I used to be. I daresay
I am out of training. I could walk any distance
at Brighton last autumn. A long walk on the
road to Eottingdean was my only distraction; but
at Pallanza I began to flag, and the hotel people
were always suggesting drives, so I got out of the
habit of walking."

He had his hand through her arm, and drew
her near him as they sauntered across the lawn,
with a hopeless wonder at the thought that she
was here at his side, close to his heart, all in all
to him to-day, and that the time might soon
come when she would have melted out of his life as
that fair daughter had done, when the grave under
the tree should mean a double desolation, an everlasting
despair.

Is there any world where we shall be together
again ?" he asked himself. " What is immortality
worth to me if it does not mean reunion ? To go
round upon the endless wheel of eternity, to be fixed
into the universal life, to be a part of the Creator

Himself ! Nothing in a life to come can be gain tome
if it do not give me back what I have lost."

They dawdled about the shrubbery, man and wife,
arm linked with arm, looking at the new plantings
one by one ; she speculating how many years each
tree would take to come to perfection.

They will make a very good effect in three or
four years, George. Don't you think so? That Pica
nobilis will fill the open space yonder. We have
allowed ten feet clear on every side. The golden
brooms grow only too quickly. How serious you
look ! Are you thinking of anything that makes you
anxious ?"

I am thinking of Pamela and her sweetheart. I
should like to make Lady Lochinvar's acquaintance
before the marriage."

** Shall I ask her here ?"

She could hardly come, I fancy, while the
wedding is on the tapis. I propose that you and I
should go up to London tomorrow, put up at our old
hotel  we shall be more independent there than at
Grosvenor Gardens  and spend a few days quietly,
seeing a good deal of the picture-galleries, and a little

of our new connections  and of Kosalind and her
husband, whom we don't often see. Would you like
to do that, Mildred?"

"I like anything you like. I delight in seeing
pictures with you, and I shall be glad to see Rosalind
; and if Pamela really wishes us to be present at
her wedding, I think we ought to be there, don't
you, George?"

'Mf you would like it dearest ; if  "
He left the sentence unfinished, fearing to betray
his apprehension. Till he had consulted the highest
authorities in the land he felt that he could know
but little of that hidden malady which paled her
cheek and gave heaviness to the pathetic eyes.

They were in Cavendish Square, husband and
wife, on the morning after their arrival in town, by
special appointment with the physician. Mildred
submitted meekly to a careful consultation  only for
his own satisfaction, her husband told her, making
light of his anxiety.

I want you to be governed by the best possible
advice, dearest, in the care of your health."

You don't think there is danger, George ; that
I am to be taken away from you, just when all our
secrets and sorrows are over ?"

Indeed, no, dearest ! God grant you may be
spared to me for many happy years to come !"

There is no reason, I think, that it should not
be so. Mr. Porter said my complaint was chiefly
nervous. He would not wonder at my nerves being
in a poor way if he knew how I suffered in those
bitter days of banishment."

The examination was long and serious, yet conducted
by the physician with such gentle bonhomie
as not to alarm the patient. When it was over, he
dismissed her with a kindly smile, after advice given
upon very broad lines.

"After the question of diet, which I have written
for you here," he said, handing her half a sheet of
paper, "the only other treatment I can counsel is
self-indulgence. Never walk far enough to feel tired,
or fast enough to be out of breath. Live as much
as possible in the open air, but let your life out of
doors be the sweet idleness of the sunny South,
rather than our ideal bustling, hurrying British

existence. Court repose  tranquillity for body and
mind in all things."

' You mean that I am to be an invalid for the
rest of my life, as my poor mother was for five years
before her death ?"

'' At what age did your mother die ?"

'' Thirty-four. For a long time the doctors
would hardly say what was the matter with her.
She suffered terribly from palpitation of the heart,
as I have done for the last six months ; but the doctors
made light of it, and told my father there was
very little amiss. Towards the end they changed
their opinion, and owned that there was organic
disease. Nothing they could do for her seemed of
much use."

Mildred went back to the waiting-room while
her husband had an interview with the doctor ; an
interview which left him but the faintest hope  only
the hope of prolonging a fading life.

She may last for years, perhaps," said the
physician, pitying the husband's silent agony, " but
it would be idle to disguise her state. She will
never be strong again. She must not ride, or drive,

or occupy herself in any way that can involve violent
exertion, or a shock to the nerves. Cherish her as a
hothouse flower, and she may be with you for sometime
yet."

*god bless you, even for that hope," said
Greswold, and then he spoke of his niece's wedding,
and the wish for Mildred's presence.

"No harm in a wedding, I think, if you are
careful of her : no over-exertion, no agitating scenes.
The wedding may cheer her, and prevent her brooding
on her own state. Good-day. I shall be glad
to know the effect of my prescription, and to see
Mrs. Greswold again in a month or two, if she is
strong enough to come to London. If you want meat
any time in the country  "

You will come, will you not ? Remember she
is all that is precious to me upon this earth. If I
lose her I lose everything."

Send for me at any time. If it is possible forme
to go to you I will go."

LIKE A TALE THAT IS TOLD.

Pamela's wedding was one of the most successful
functions of the London season ; and the society
papers described the ceremony with a fulness of
detail which satisfied even the bride's avidity for
social fame. Mr. Smithson sent her gown just an
hour before it had to make its reverence before the
altar in the Abbey ; and Pamela, who had been in
an almost hysterical agony for an hour-and-a-half,
lest she should have no gown in which to be married,
owned, as she pirouetted before the cheval-glass,
that the fit was worth the suspense.

The ladies who write fashion articles in the two
social arbiters were rapturous about Mr. Smithson' s
chef-d'oeuvre, and gave glowing accounts of certain
trousseau gowns which they had been privileged to
review at an afternoon tea in Grosvenor Gardens a
week before the event. Pamela's delight in these

paragraphs was intensified by the idea that Cesar
Castellani would read them, though it is hardly
likely that listless skimmer of modern literature
went so deep as fashion articles.

He will see at least that if he had married me
he would not have married quite a nobody," said
Pamela, in a summer reverie upon the blue water in
front of The Hook, where she and her husband
dawdled about in a punt nearly all day, expatiating
upon each other's merits. And so floats this light
bark gaily into a safe and placid haven, out of reach
of privateer or pirate such as the incomparable
Castellani.

It was not until after Pamela's wedding, and
nearly a month after Mildred's discovery of the
letters in the bookcase, that Miss Fausset made any
sign ; but one August morning her reply came in
the shape of a letter, entreating Mildred to go to
her, as an act of charity to one whose sands had
nearly run out.

I will not sue to you in forma pauperis'" she
wrote, "so I do not pretend that I am a dying

THE FATAL THREE.

woman ; but I believe I have not very long to
live, and before my voice is mute upon earth I want
to tell you the history of one year of my girlhood.
I want you to know that I am not altogether the
kind of sinner you may think me. I will not write
that history, and if you refuse to come to me, I
must die and leave it untold, and in that case my
death-bed will be miserable."

Mildred's gentle heart could not harden itself
against such an appeal as this. She told her husband
only that her aunt was very ill and ardently
desired to see her ; and after some discussion it was
arranged that she should travel quietly to Brighton,
he going with her. He suggested that they should
stop in Miss Fausset's house for a night or two, but
Mildred told him she would much prefer to stay at
an hotel ; so it was decided that they should put up
at the quiet hotel on the East Cliff, where Mr. Griswold
had taken Pamela nearly a year before.

Mildred's health had improved under the physician's
regime ; and her husband felt hopeful as they
travelled together through the summer landscape,
by that line which she had travelled in her desolation

the level landscape with glimpses of blue sea and
stretches of gray beach or yellow sand, bright in the
August noontide.

George Greswold had respected Mildred's reserve,
and had never urged her to enlighten him as to the
secret of his first wife's parentage ; but he had his
ideas upon the subject, and, remembering his interview
with the solicitor and that gentleman's perturbation
at the name of Fausset, he was inclined to
think that the pious lady of Lewes Crescent might
not be unconcerned in the mystery. And now this
summons to Brighton seemed to confirm his suspicions.


He went no further than Miss Fausset's threshold,
and allowed his wife to go to her aunt alone.

I shall walk up and down and wait till you
come out again," he said, " so I hope that you won't
stay too long."

He was anxious to limit an interview which
might involve agitation for Mildred. He parted from
her almost reluctantly at the doorway of the gloomy
house, with its entrance-hall of the pattern of forty
years ago, furnished with barometer, umbrella-stand,

and tall chairs, all in Spanish mahogany, and with
never a picture or a bust, bronze or porcelain, to
give light and colour to the scene.

Miss Fausset had changed for the worse even in
the brief interval since Mildred had last seen her.
She was sitting in the back drawing-room as usual,
but her table and chair had been wheeled into the
bay-window, which commanded a garden with a
single tree and a variety of house-tops and dead
walls.

So you have come," she said, without any form
of greeting. " I hardly expected so much from you.
Sit down there, if you please. I have a good deal
to tell you."

I had intended never to enter your house
again, aunt. But I could not refuse to hear anything
you have to say in your own justification.
Only there is one act of yours which you can never
justify  either to me or to God."

What is that, pray ?"

"Your refusal to tell me the secret of Fay's
birth, when my happiness and my husband's depended
upon my knowing it."

** To tell you that would have been to betray my
own secret. Do you think, after keeping it for nine-and-thirty
years, I was likely to surrender it lightly?
I would sooner have cut my tongue out. I did
what I could for you. I told you to ignore idle
prejudice and to go back to your husband. I told
you what was due from you to him, over and above
all sanctimonious scruples. You would not listen
to me, and whatever misery you have suffered has
been misery of your own creation."

**Do not let us talk any more about it, aunt.
I can never think differently about the wrong you
have done me. Had I not found those letters  by
the merest accident, remember  I might have gone
down to my grave a desolate woman. I might
have died in a foreign land, far away from the only
voice that could comfort me in my last hours.
No; my opinion of your guilty silence can never
change. You were willing to break two hearts
rather than hazard your own reputation; and yet
you must have known that I would keep your secret,
that I should sympathise with the sorrow of your
girlhood," added Mildred, in softened tones.

Miss Fausset was slow in replying. Mildred's
reproaches fell almost unheeded upon her ear. It
was of herself she was thinking, with all the egotism
engendered by a lonely old age, without ties of
kindred or friendship, with no society but that of
flatterers and parasites.

I asked you if you had found any letters of
your father's relating to that unhappy girl," she
said. " I always feared his habit of keeping letters
a habit he learnt from my father. Yet I hoped
that he would have burnt mine, knowing, as he did,
that the one desire of my life was to obliterate that
hideous past. Vain hope. I was like the ostrich.
If I hid my secret in England, it was known in
Italy. The man who destroyed my life was a traitor
to the core of his heart, and he betrayed me to his
Bon. He told Cesar how he had fascinated a rich
English girl, and fooled her with a mock marriage ;
and fifteen years ago the young man presented himself
to me with the full knowledge of that dark blot
upon my life  to me, here, where I had held my
head so high. He let me know the full extent of
his knowledge in his own subtle fashion ; but he

always treated me with profound respect  he pretended
to be fond of me ; and, God help me, there
was a charm for me in the very sound of his voice.
The man who cheated me out of my life's happiness
was lying in his grave : death lessens the bitterness
of hatred, and I could not forget that I had once
loved him."

The tears gathered slowly in the cold gray eyes,
and rolled slowly down the hollow cheeks.

Yes, I loved him, Mildred  loved him with a
foolish, inexperienced girl's romantic love. I asked
no questions. I believed all he told me. I flung
myself blindfold into the net. His genius, his grace,
his fire  ah, you can never imagine the charm of
his manner, the variety of his talent, compared with
which his son's accomplishments are paltry. You
see me now a hard, elderly woman. As a girl I was
warm-hearted and impetuous, full of enthusiasm and
imagination, while I loved and believed in my lover.
My whole nature changed after that great wrong 
my heart was frozen."

There was a silence of some moments, and then
Miss Fausset continued in short agitated sentences,

her fingers fidgeting nervously with the double eyeglass
which she wore on a slender gold chain :

It was his genius I worshipped. He was at the
height of his success. The Milanese raved about
him as a rival to Donizetti; his operas were the
rage. Can you wonder that I, a girl passionately
fond of music, was carried away by the excitement
which was in the very air I breathed ? I went to
the opera night after night. I heard that fascinating
music till its melodies seemed interwoven with
my being. I suppose I was weak enough to let
the composer see how much I admired him. He
had quarrelled with his wife ; and the quarrel 
caused by his own misconduct  had resulted in a
separation which was supposed to be permanent.
There may have been people in Milan who knew
that he was a married man, but my chaperon did
not ; and he was careful to suppress the fact from
the beginning of our acquaintance.

** Yes, no doubt he found out that I was madly in
love with him. He pretended to be interested in my
musical studies. He advised and taught me. He
played the violin divinely, and we used to play con-certainty



duets during the long evenings, while my
chaperon dozed by the fire, caring very little how I
amused myself, so long as I did not interfere with
her comfort. She was a sensual, selfish creature,
given over to self-indulgence, and she let me have
my own way in everything. He used to join me at
the Cathedral at vespers. How my heart thrilled
when I found him there, sitting in the shadowy
chancel in the gray November light ! for I knew it
was for my sake he went there, not from any religious
feeling. Our hands used to meet and clasp each
other almost unconsciously when the music moved
us as it went soaring up to the gorgeous roof, in the
dim light of the hanging lamps before the altar.
I have found myself kneeling with my hand iu his
when I came out of a dream of Paradise to which that
exquisite music had lifted me. Yes, I loved him,
Mildred ; I loved him as well as ever you loved your
husband  as passionately and unselfishly as woman
ever loved. I rejoiced in the thought that I was
rich, for his sake. I planned the life that we were
to live together ; a life in which I was to be subordinate
to him in all things  his adoriu,']f slave. I

VOL. III.

suppose most girls have some such dream. God
help them, when it ends as mine did !"

Again there was a silence  a chilling muteness
upon Mildred's part. How could she he sorry for
this woman who had never been sorry for others ;
who had let her child travel from the cradle to the
grave without one ray of maternal love to light her
dismal journey ! She remembered Fay's desolate
life and blighted nature  Fay, who had a heart
large enough for a great unselfish love. She remembered
her aunt's impenetrable silence when a
word would have restored happiness to a ruined
home ; she remembered, and her heart was hardened
against this proud, selfish woman, whose
life had been one long sacrifice to the world's
opinion.

I loved him, Mildred, and I trusted him as I
would have trusted any man who had the right to
call himself a gentleman," pursued Miss Fausset,
eager to justify herself in the face of that implacable
silence. " I had been brought up, after the fashion
of those days, in a state of primeval innocence. I
had never, even in fiction, been allowed to come face

to face with the cruel realities of life. I was educated
in an age which thought Jane Eyre an improper
novel, and which restricted a young woman's education
to music and modern languages ; the latter
taught so badly, for the most part, as to be useless
when she travelled. My knowledge of Italian would
just enable me to translate a libretto when I had it
before me in print, or to ask my way in the streets ;
but it was hardly enough to make me understand the
answer. It never entered into my mind to doubt
Paolo Castellani when he told me that, although we
could not, as Papist and Protestant, be married in
any church in Milan, we could be united by a civil
marriage before a Milanese authority, and that such
a marriage would be binding all the world over. Had
I been a poor girl I might of my own instinct have
suspected treachery ; but I was rich and he was
poor, and he would be a gainer by our marriage.
Servants and governesses had impressed me with
the sense of my own importance, and I knew that I
was what is called a good match. So I fell into the
trap, Mildred, as foolishly as a snared bird. I crept
out of the house one morning after my music-lesson.

found my lover waiting for me with a carriage close
hy, went with him to a dingy office in a dingy street,
but which had a sufficiently official air to satisfy my
ignorance, and went through a certain formula,
hearing something read over by an elderly man of
-grave appearance, and signing my name to a document
after Paolo had signed his.

*rit was all a sham and a cheat, Mildred. The
-old man was a Milanese attorney, with no more
power to marry us than he had to make us immortal.
The paper was a deed-of-gift by which Paolo castilian
transferred some imaginary property to me.
The whole thing was a farce ; but it was so cleverly
planned that the cheat was effected without the aid
of an accomplice. The old man acted in all good
faith, and my blind confidence and ignorance of
Italian accepted a common legal formality as a
marriage. I went from that dark little office into
the spring sunshine happy as ever bride went
out of church, kissed and complimented by a throng
of approving friends. I cared very little as to
what my brother might think of this clandestine
marriage. He would have refused his consent beforehand,

no doubt, but he would reconcile himself
to the inevitable by and by. In any event, I should
be independent of his control. My fortune would
be at my own disposal after my one-and twentieth
birthday  mine, to throw into my husband's
lap.

That is nearly the end of my story, Mildred,
"We went from Milan to Como, and after a few days
at Bellagio crossed the St. Goddard, and sauntered
from one lovely scene to another till we stopped at
Yevay. For just six weeks I lived in a fool's paradise
; but by that time my brother had traced us to
Vevay  having learnt all that could be learnt about
Castellani at Milan before he started in pursuit of
us. He came, and my dream ended. I knew that
I was a dishonoured woman, and that all my education,
my innate pride in myself, and my fortune had
done for me, was to place me as low as the lowest
creature in the land. I left Yevay within an hour of
that revelation a broken-hearted woman. I never
saw my destroyer's face again. You know all,
Mildred, now. Can you wonder that I shrank with
abhorrence from the offspring of my disgrace  that

I refused ever to see her after I had once released
myself from the hateful tie ?"

Yes, I do wonder ; I must always wonder that
you were merciless to her  that you had no pity for
that innocent life."

Ah, you are your father's daughter. He wished
me to hide myself in some remote village so that I
might taste the sweets of maternal affection, enjoy
the blessed privilege of rearing a child who at every
instant of her life would remind me of the miserable
infatuation that had blighted my own. No, Mildred,
I was not made for such an existence as that. I
have tried to do good to others ; I have laboured for
God's Church and God's poor. That has been my
atonement."

** It would have been a better atonement to have
cared for your own flesh and blood ; but with your
means and opportunities you might have done both.
I loved Fay, remember, aunt. I cannot forget how
bright and happy she might have been. I cannot
forget the wrongs that warped her nature."

*' You are very hard, Mildred, hard to a woman
whose days are numbered."

"Are not my days numbered, aunt?" cried
Mildred, with a sudden burst of passion. *' Was
not my heart broken when I left this house last
year to go into loneliness and exile, abandoning a
husband I adored ? That parting was my deathblow.
In all the long dreary days that have gone
by since then my hold upon life has been loosening.
You might have saved me that agony. You might
have sent me back to my home rejoicing  and you
would not. You cared more for your own pride
than for my happiness. You might have made your
daughter's life happy  and you would not. You
cared more for the world's esteem than for her
welfare. As you sacrificed her, your daughter, you
have sacrificed me, your niece. I know that I am
doomed. Just when God has given me back the
love that makes life precious, I feel the hand of
death upon me, and know that the hour of parting
is near."

*' I have been a sinner, Mildred ; but I have
suffered  I have suffered. You ought not to judge
me. You have never known shame."

That last appeal softened Mildred's heart. She

THE FATAL Three.

went over to her aunt's chair, and leant over her
and kissed her.

"Let the past be forgotten," she said, "and let
us part in love."

And so, a quarter of an hour later, they parted,
never to meet again on earth.

Miss Fausset died in the early winter, cut off
by the first frost, like a delicate flower. She had
made no change in the disposal of her property,
and her death made Mildred Greswold a very rich
woman.

"My aunt loved the poor," said Mildred, when
she and her husband spoke of this increase of
wealth. " We are both so much richer than our
needs, George. We have lived in sunshine for the
most part. When I am gone I should like you
to do some great thing for those who live in
shadow."

My beloved, I shall remain upon this earth
only to obey your will."

He lived just long enough to keep his promise.
The Greswold Hospital remains, a monument of
thoughtful beneficence, in one of the most wretched

neighbourhoods south of the Thames; but George
Greswold and his race are ended like a tale that
is told.

Cesar Castellani, enriched by a legacy from Miss
Fausset, contrives still to flourish, and still to wear
a gardenia in the button-hole of an artistic coat ;
but fashions change quickly in the realm of light
literature, and the star of the author of Xepentlie is
sunk in the oblivion that engulfs ephemeral reputations.
Castellani is still received in certain 
; but it is in the silly circles alone that
he is believed in as a man who has only missed
greatness because he is too much of an artist to bea
steadfast worker.

