CHAPTER I.

THE DAYS THAT ARE NO MORE.

 And he was a widowers said Christened.

She was listening to an oft-told tale , kneeling in
the firelight, at her aunts knee, the ruddy glow
tenderly touching her fair soft hair and fairer forehead,
her big blue eyes lifted lovingly to Mrs.
TregonelFs face.

And he was a widower, Aunt Diana' she repeated,
with an expression of distaste, as if something
had set her teeth on edge. " I cannot help
wondering that you could care for a widower  a
man who had begun life by caring for somebody
else."

Do you suppose any one desperately in love
ever thinks of the past ?" asked another voice out
of the twilight. '' Those infatuated creatures

VOL. I. B

called lovers are too happy and contented with the
rapture of the presents

One would think you had tremendous experience,,
Jessie, by the way you lay down the laws
said Christabel;, laughing. " But I want to know
what Auntie has to say about falling in love with
a widower .

If you had ever seen him and known him, I
don't think you would wonder at my liking him'
answered Mrs. Tregonell, lying back in her armchair,
and talking of the story of her life in a placid
way, as if it were the plot of a novel, so thoroughly
does time smooth the rough edge of grief. " "When
he came to my father's house, his young wife had
been dead just two years  she died three days after
the birth of her first child  and Captain Hamleighwas
very sad and grave, and seemed to take very little
pleasure in life. It was in the shooting season, and
the other men were out upon the hills all day''

'* Murdering innocent birds," interjected Chris-abel.
" How I hate them for it !"

Captain Harleigh hung about the house, not
seeming to know very well what to do with himself,

SO your mother and I took pity upon him, and tried
to amuse him, which effort resulted in his amusing
us, for he was ever so much cleverer than we were.
He was so kind and sympathetic. We had just
founded a Dorcas Society, and we were muddling
hopelessly in an endeavour to make good sensible
rules, so that we should do nothing to lessen the
independent feeling of our people  and he came to
our rescue, and took the whole thing in hand, and
seemed to understand it all as thoroughly as if he
had been establishing Dorcas Societies all his life.
My father said it was because the Captain had been
sixth wrangler, and that it was the higher mathematics
which made him so clever at making rules.
But Clara and I said it was his kind heart that made
him so quick at understanding how to help the poor
without humiliating them.-*

It was very nice of him," said Christabel, who
had heard the story a hundred times before, but who
was never weary of it, and had a special reason for
being interested this afternoon. ' And so he stayed
a long time at my grandfather's, and you fell in
love with him ?"

I began by being sorry for bim/ replied Mrs.
Tregonell. " He told us all about bis young wife 
bow happy they bad been  bow their one year of
wedded life seemed to bim like a lovely dream.
They bad only been engaged three months ; be bad
known ber less than a year and a half altogether;
bad come borne from India; bad seen ber at a
friends bouse fallen in love with ber , married ber,
and lost ber within those eighteen months.  Every -
thing smiled upon us be said. ' I ought to bave
remembered Polycrates and bis riug. '

He must bave been rather a doleful persons
said Cbristabelj wbo bad all the exacting ideas of
early youth in relation to love and lovers. " A
widower of that kind ought to perform suttee, and
make an end of the business,, rather than go about
the world prosing to nice girls. I wonder more and
more that you could bave cared for bim/ And
tben seeing ber aunts eyes shining with unsbed
tears, the girl laid ber sunny bead upon the
matronly shoulder, and murmured tenderly, ' Forgive
me for teasing you, dear, I am only pretending.
I love to bear about Captain Harleigh ; and

I am not very much surprised that you ended by
loving him  or that he soon forgot his brief dream
of bliss with the other young lady and fell
desperately in love with you''

' It was not till after Christmas that we were engaged'
continued Mrs. Tregonell looking dreamily
at the fire. " My father was delighted  so was
my sister Clara  your dear mother. Everything
went pleasantly; our lives seemed all sunshine.
I ought to have remembered Polycrates for I
knew Schiller's ballad about him by heart. But
I could think of nothing beyond that perfect all-sufficing
happiness. We were not to be married
till late in the autumn, when it would be three
years since his wife's death. It was my father's
wish that I should not be married till after my
nineteenth birthday, which would not be till September.
I was so happy in my engagement, so confident
in my lover's fidelity, that I was more than
content to wait. So all that spring he stayed at
Penlee. Our mild climate had improved his health,
which was not at all good when he came to us 
indeed he had retired from the service before his

marriage, chiefly on account of weak health. But
he spoke so lightly and confidently about himself in
this matter, that it had never entered into my head
to feel any serious alarm about him, till early in
May, when he and Clara and I were caught in a
drenching rainstorm during a mountaineering expedition
on Rough Tor, and then had to walk four or
five miles in the rain before we came to the inn
where the carriage was to wait for us. Clara and
I, who were always about in all weathers, were very
little worse for the wet walk and the long drive
home in damp clothes. But George was seriously
ill for three weeks with cough and low fever ; and
it was at this time that our family doctor told my
father that he would not give much for his future
son-in-law's life. There was a marked tendency to
lung complaint, he said ; Captain Harleigh had
confessed that several members of his family had
died of consumption. My father told me this 
urged me to avoid a marriage which must end in
misery to me, and was deeply grieved when I declared
that no such consideration would induce me
to break my engagement, and to grieve the man

I loved. If it were needful that our marriage should
be delayed, I was contented to submit to any
delay ; but nothing could loosen the tie between me
and my dear love."

Aunt and niece were both crying now. However
familiar the story might be , they always wept a
little at this point.

George never knew one word of this conversation
between my father and me  he never suspected
our fears  but from that hour my happiness was
gone. My life was one perpetual dread  one
ceaseless struggle to hide all anxieties and fears
under a smile. George rallied, and seemed to
grow strong again  was full of energy and high
spirits, and I had to pretend to think him as thoroughly
recovered as he fancied himself. But by
this time I had grown sadly wise. I had questioned
our doctor  had looked into medical books  and I
knew every sad sign and token of decay. 1 knew
what the flushed cheek and the brilliant eye, the
damp cold hand, and the short cough meant. 1
knew that the hand of death was on him whom I
loved more than all the world besides. There was

no need for the postponement of our marriage.
In the long bright days of August he seemed wonderfully
well  as well as he had been before the
attack in May. I was almost happy ; for, in spite
of what the doctor had told me, I began to hope !
but early in September, while the dressmakers
were in the house making my wedding clothes, the
end came suddenly, unexpectedly, with only a few
hours' warning. Oh, Christabel ! I cannot speak of
that day !"

"No, darling, you shall not, you must note"*
cried Christabel, showering kisses on her aunt's pale
cheek.

"And yet you always lead her on to talk about
Captain Harleigh," said the sensible voice out of
the shadowy. " Isn't that just a little inconsistent
of our sweet Belle T

Don't call me your * sweet Belle'  as if I were
a baby' exclaimed the girl. ' I know I am inconsistent
 I was born foolish, and no one has ever
taken the trouble to cure me of my folly. And
now. Auntie dear, tell me about Captain Harleigh's
son  the boy who is coming here tomorrow."

I have not seen him since he was at Eton.
The Squire drove me down on a Fourth of June to
see him.'

' It was very good of Uncle Tregonell.''

'' The Squire was always good' replied Mrs,
Tregonell, with a dignified air. ChristabeFs only
remembrance of her uncle was of a large loud man,
who blustered and scolded a good deal, and frequently
contrived, perhaps, without meaning it, to
make everybody in the house uncomfortable ; so
she reflected inwardly upon that blessed dispensation
which, however poorly wives may think of
living husbands, provides that every widow should
consider her departed spouse completely admirable.


And was he a nice boy in those days V asked
Christabel, keenly interested.

"He was a handsome gentleman-like lad  very

intellectual looking ; but I was grieved to see that

he looked delicate, like his father; and his dame

told me that he generally had a winter cough."

' AYho took care of him in those days V

' His maternal aunt  a baronets wife, with a

handsome house in Eaton Square. All his mo terms
people were well placed in life's'

' Poor boy ! hard to have neither father nor
mother. It was twelve years ago when you spent
that season in London with the Squire," said
Christabel, calculating profoundly with the aid of
her finger tips ; ' and Angus Harleigh was then
sixteen which makes him now eight and-t wen ty 
dreadfully old. And since then he has been at
Oxford  and he got the Newgate  what is the
Newgate?  and he did nothunt or drive tandem,
or have rats in his rooms , or paint the doors
vermilion  like  like the general run of young
men,'' said Christabel,, reddening, and hurrying on
confusedly ; '' and he was altogether rather a
superior person at the universities

had not your cousin Leonard's high spirits
and powerful physique' said Mrs. Tregonell, as
if she were ever so slightly offended. " Young
men's tastes are so different''

Yes," sighed Christabel, " it's lucky they are,
is it not? It wouldn't do for them all to keep
rats in their rooms, would it ? The poor old

colleges would smell so dreadful. Wells with
another sigh, ' it is just three weeks since Angus
Harleigh accepted your invitation to come here to
stay, and I have been expiring of curiosity ever
since. If he keeps me expiring much longer
I shall be dead before he comes. And I have a
dreadful foreboding that, when he does appear, I
shall detest him.''

"No fear of that," said Miss Bridgeman, the
owner of the voice that issued now and again from
the covert of a deep armchair on the other side of
the fireplace.

Why not, Mistress Oracle ?" asked Christabel.

Because, as Mr. Harleigh is accomplished and
good-looking, and as you see very few young men
of any kind, and none that are particularly attractive,
the odds are fifty to one that you will fall
in love with him."

' I am not that kind of person," protested
Christabel, drawing up her long full throat, a
perfect throat, and one of the girl's chief beauties.

' I hope not," said Mrs. Tregonell ; " I trust
that Belle has better sense than to fall in love

Tvith a young man, just because he happens to
come to stay in the house''

Christabel was on the point of exclaiming,
' Why, Auntie, you did it -,'' but caught herself up
sharply, and cried out instead, with an air of
settling the question for ever.

My dear Jessie, he is eight-and-twenty. Just
ten years older than I am''

Of course  he's ever so much too old for her.
A blase man of the world's said Mrs. Tregonell.
 I should be deeply sorry to see my darling marry
a man of that age  and with such antecedents. I
should like her to marry a young man not above
two or three years her senior."

 And fond of rats,'''' said Jessie Bridgeman to
herself, for she had a shrewd idea that she knew
the young man whose image filled Mrs. Tregonell's
mind as she spoke.

All these words were spoken in a goodly oak-panelled
room in the Manor House known as
Mount E-oyal, on the slope of a bosky hill about a
mile and a half from the little town of Boscastle,
on the north coast of Cornwall. It was an easy

matter according to the Heralds' Office, to slow
that Mount Royal had belonged to the Tregonells in
the days of the Norman kings ; for the Tregonells
traced their descent,, by a female branch, from the
ancient baronial family of Dotterel or Bottreaux, who
once held a kind of Court in their castle on Mount
Royal, had their dungeons and their prisoners, and, in
the words of Carew, ' exercised some large jurisdictions'
Of the ancient castle hardly a stone remained
; but the house in which Mrs. Tregonell
lived was as old as the reign of Jg-mes the
First, and had all the rich and quaint beauty
of that delightful period in architecture. Nor
was there any prettier room at Mount Royal
than this spacious oak-panelled parlour, with
curious nooks and cupboards, a recessed fireplace, or
' cosy-corners' with a small window on each side
of the chimney-breast, and one particular alcove
placed at an angle of the house, overlooking one of
the most glorious views in England. It might be
hyperbole perhaps to call those Cornish hills
mountains, yet assuredly it was a mountain landscape
over which the eye roved as it looked from

the windows of Mount Royal ; for those wide sweeps
of hill side those deep clefts and gorges, and
heathery slopes, on which the dark red cattle
grazed in silent peacefulness, and the rocky bed of
the narrow river that went rushing through the
deep valley, had all the grandeur of the Scottish
Highlands, all the pastoral beauty of Switzerland.
And away to the right, beyond the wild and
indented coast-line, that horned coast which is
said to have given its name to Cornwall  Cornu-wales
 stretched the Atlantic.

The room had that quaint charm peculiar to
rooms occupied by many generations, and upon
which each age as it went by has left its mark.
It was a room full of anachronisms. There was
some of the good old Jacobean furniture left in it,
while spindle-legged Chippendale tables and
luxurious nineteenth-century chairs and sofas
agreeably contrasted with those heavy oak cabinets
and corner cupboards. Here an old Indian screen
or a china monster suggested a fashionable auction
room, filled with ladies who wore patches and
played ombre, and squabbled for ideal ugliness in

Oriental pottery ; there a delicately carved cherry-wood
prie-dieu, with claw feet recalled the earlier
beauties of the Stuart Court. Time had faded the
stamped velvet curtains to that neutral withered-leaf
hue which painters love in a background, and against
which bright yellow chrysanthemums and white asters
in dark red and blue Japanese bowls , seen dimly in
the fitful fire-glow, made patches of light and colour.
The girl kneeling by the matron's chair,
looking dreamily into the fire, was even fairer
than her surroundings. She was thoroughly
English in her beauty, features not altogether
perfect, but complexion of that dazzling fairness
and wild-rose bloom which is in itself enough for
loveliness ; a complexion so delicate as to betray
every feeling of the sensitive mind, and to vary
with every shade of emotion. Her eyes were
blue, clear as summer skies, and with an expression
of childlike innocence  that look which tells of a
soul whose purity has never been tarnished by
the knowledge of evil. That frank clear outlook
was natural in a girl brought up as Christabel
Courtenay had been at a good woman's knee.

shut in aud sheltered from the rough worlds reared
in the love and fear of God, shaping every thought
of her life by the teaching of the Gospel.

She had been an orphan at nine years old, and
had parted for ever from mother and father before
her fifth birthday Mrs. Courtenay leaving her only
child in her sister's care, and going out to India
to join her husband, one of the Sudden Judges.
Husband and wife died of cholera in the fourth
year of Mrs. Courtenay's residence at Calcutta,
leaving Christabel in her aunt's care.

Mr. Courtenay was a man of ample means, and
his wife, daughter and co-heiress with Mrs. Tregonell
of Ralph Champernowne, had a handsome dowry, so
Christabel might fairly rank as an heiress. On
her grandfather's death she inherited half of the
Champernowne estate, which was not entailed.
But she had hardly ever given a thought to her
financial position. She knew that she was a ward in
Chancery, and that Mrs. Tregonell was her guardian
and adopted mother, that she had always as much
money as she wanted, and never experienced the
pain of seeing poverty which she could not relieve

in some measure from her well supplied purse. The
general opinion in the neighbourhood of Mount
Royal was that the Indian Judge had accumulated
an immense fortune during his twenty years' labour
as a civil servant ; but this notion was founded
rather upon vague ideas about Warren Hastings
and the Pagoda tree, and the supposed inability of
any Indian official to refuse a bribe, than on plain
facts or personal knowledge.

Mrs. Tregonell had been left a widow at thirty-five
years of age, a widow with one son whom she
idolized, but who was not a source of peace and
happiness. He was open-handed, had no petty
vices and was supposed to possess a noble heart 
a fact which Christabel was sometimes inclined to
doubt when she saw his delight in the slaughter of
birds and beasts, not having in her own nature
that sportsman's instinct which can excuse such
murder. He was not the kind of lad who would
wilfully set his foot upon a worm, but he had no
thrill of tenderness or remorseful pity as he looked
at the glazing eye, or felt against his hand the last
feeble heart-beats of snipe or woodcock. He was

VOL. I. c

a troublesome boy  fond of inferior company and
loving rather to be first fiddle in the saddle-room
than to mind his manners in his mother's pink-and-white
panelled saloon  among the best people in
the neighbourhood. He was lavish to recklessness
in the use of money, and therefore was always furnished
with followers and flatterers. His University
career had been altogether a failure and a disgrace.
He had taken no degree  had made himself
notorious for those rough pranks which have not
even the merit of being original  the traditionary
college misdemeanours handed down from generation
to generation of undergraduates, and which by
their blatant folly incline the outside world to vote
for the suppression of Universities and the extinction
of the undergraduate race.

His mother had known and suffered all this, yet
still loved her boy with a fond excusing love 
ever ready to pardon  ever eager to believe that
these faults and follies were but the crop of wild
oats which must needs precede the ripe and rich
harvest of manhood. Such wild youths, she told
herself, fatuously, generally make the best men.

Leonard would mend his ways before lie was five-and-twenty,
and would become interested in his
estate, and develop into a model Squire, like his
admirable father.

That he had no love for scholarship mattered
little  a country gentleman, with half a dozen
manors to look after, could be but little advantaged
by a familiar acquaintance with the integral
calculus, or a nice appreciation of the Greek
tragedians. When Leonard Tregonell and the
college Dons were mutually disgusted with each
other to a point that made any further residence
at Oxford impossible, the young man graciously
announced his intention of making a tour round
the world, for the benefit of his health, somewhat
impaired by University dissipations, and the widening
of his experience in the agricultural line.

' Farming has been reduced to a sciences he told
his mother ; " I want to see how it works in our
colonies. I mean to make a good many reformations
in the management of my farms and the
conduct of my tenants when I come homes'

At first loth to part with him, very fearful of

letting him so far out of her keri Mrs. Tregorieli
ultimately allowed herself to be persuaded that
sea voyages and knocking about in strange lands
would be the making of her son ; and there was
no sacrifice, no loss of comfort and delight, which
she would not have endured for his benefit. She
spent many sad hours in prayer, or on her knees
before her open Bible ; and at last it seemed to
her that her friends and neighbours must be right,
and that it would be for Leonardoss good to go. If
he stayed in England she could not hope to keep
him always in Cornwall. He could go to London,
and, no doubt, London vices would be worse than
Oxford vices. Yes, it was good for him to go ;
she thought of Esau, and how, after a foolish and
ill-governed youth, the son who had bartered his
father's blessing, yet became an estimable member
of society. Why should not her boy flourish as
Esau had flourished ? but never without the parental
blessing. That would be his to the end. He could
not sin beyond her large capacity for pardon : he
could not exhaust an inexhaustible love. So
Leonard, who had suddenly found that wild Cornish

coast, and even the long rollers of the
Atlantic contemptibly insignificant as compared
with the imagined magnitude of Australian downs,
and the grandeurs of Botany Bay, hurried on the
preparations for his departure, provided himself
with everything expensive in gunnery fishing-tackle,
porpoise-hide thigh-boots, and waterproof
gear of every kind, and departed rejoicing in the
most admirably appointed Australian steamer. The
family doctor, who was one of the many friends in
favour of this tour, had strongly recommended the
rough-and-tumble life of a sailing-vessel ; but
Leonard preferred the luxury and swiftness of a
steamer, and, suggesting to his mother that a
sailing-vessel always took out emigrants, from
whom it was more than likely he would catch
scarlet-fever or small-pox, instantly brought Mrs.
Tregonell to perceive that a steamer which carried
no second-class passengers was the only fitting
conveyance for her son.

He was gone  and, while the widow grieved in
submissive silence, telling herself that it was Gods
will that she and her son should be parted, and

that whatever was good for him should be well for
her , Christabel and the rest of the household inwardly
rejoiced at his absence. Nobody openly
owned to being happier without him ; but the
knowledge that he was far away brought a sense of
relief to every one ; even to the old servants, who
had been so fond of him in his childhood, when
the kitchen and servants hall had ever been a
happy hunting-ground for him in periods of banishment
from the drawing-room.

'' It is no good for me to punish him/ Mrs.
Tregonell had remonstrated, with assumed displeasure
; " you all make so much of him.''-'

Oh, ma'am, he is such a fine, high-spirited
boy,''"' the cook would reply on these occasions ;
 tesn-'t possible to be angry with him. He has
such a spirit'

'' Such a spirit '' was only a euphuism for such a
temper; and, as years went on, Mr. Tregonell's
visits to the kitchen and servants' hall came to be
less appreciated by his retainers. He no longer
went there to be petted  to run riot in boyish
liveliness, upsetting the housemaids' work-boxes.

or making toffy under the cook's directions. Ashe
became aware of his own importance he speedily
developed into a juvenile tyrant ; he became
haughty and overbearing, hectored and swore,
befouled the snowy floors and flags with his muddy
shooting-boots, made havoc and work wherever he
went. The household treated him with unfailing
respect, as their late masters son, and their own
master, possibly, in the future ; but their service
was no longer the service of love. His loud strong
voice, shouting in the passages and lobbies, scared
the maids at their tea. Grooms and stable-boys
liked him; for with them he was always familiar,
and often friendly. He and they had tastes and
occupations in common ; but to the women servants
and the grave middle-aged butler his presence was
a source of discomfort.

Next to her son in Mrs. TregonelFs affection
stood her niece Christabel. That her love for the
girl who had never given her a moment's pain
should be a lesser love than that which she bore to
the boy who had seldom given her an hour's unalloyed
pleasure was one of the anomalies common

in the lives of good women. To love blindly and
unreasonably is as natural to a woman as it is to
love : and happy sbe whose passionate soul finds its
idol in husband or child, instead of being lured
astray by strange lights outside the safe harbour of
home. Mrs. Tregonell loved her niece very dearly;
but it was with that calm, comfortable affection
which mothers are apt to feel for the child who has
never given them any trouble. Christabel had
been her pupil : all that the girl knew had been
learned from Mrs. Tregonell ; and, though her
education fell far short of the requirements of
Girton or Harley Street, there were few girls whose
intellectual powers had been more fully awakened,
without the taint of pedantry. Christabel loved
books, but they were the books her aunt had chosen
for her  old-fashioned books for the most part.
She loved music, but was no brilliant pianist, for
when Mrs. Tregonell, who had taught her carefully
up to a certain point, suggested a course of lessons
from a German professor at Plymouth, the girl
recoiled from the idea of being taught by a stranger.
 If you are satisfied with my playing. Auntie,

I am content never to play any betters she said ;
so the idea of six months tuition and study at
Plymouth, involving residence in that lively port,
was abandoned. London was a far-away world, of
which neither aunt nor niece ever thought. That
wild northern coast is still two days journey from
the metropolis. Only by herculean labour, in the
way of posting across the moor in the grey dawn of
morning, can the thing be done in one day ; and
then scarcely between sunrise and sunset. So Mrs.
Tregonell, who loved a life of placid repose, had
never been to London since her widowhood, and
Christabel had never been there at all. There was
an old house in Mayfair, which had belonged to
the Tregonells for the last hundred years, and
which had cost them a fortune in repairs, but it
was either shut up and in the occupation of a
caretaker, or let furnished for the season ; and no
Tregonell had crossed its threshold since the
Squires death. Mrs. Tregonell talked of spending
a season in London before Christabel was much
older, in order that her niece might be duly presented
at Court, and qualified for that place in

society which a young lady of good family and
ample means might fairly be entitled to hold.

Christabel had no eager desire for the gaieties of
a London season. She had spent six weeks in
Bath and had enjoyed an occasional fortnight at
Plymouth. She had been taken to theatres and
concerts,, had seen some of the best actors and
actresses heard a good deal of the finest music,
and had been duly delighted with all she saw and
heard. But she so fondly loved Mount Royal and
its surroundings, she was so completely happy in
her home life, that she had no desire to change that
tranquil existence. She had a vague idea that
London balls and parties must be something very
dazzling and brilliant, but she was content to abide
her aunt's pleasure and convenience for the time
in which she was to know more about metropolitan
revelries than was to be gathered from laudatory
paragraphs in fashionable newspapers. Youth, with
its warm blood and active spirit, is rarely so contented
as Christabel was : but then youth is not
often placed amidst such harmonious circumstances,
so protected from the approach of evil.

Christabel Courtenay may have thought and
talked more about Mr. Harleigh during the two
or three days that preceded his arrival than was
absolutely necessary, or strictly in accordance with
that common-sense which characterized most of her
acts and thoughts. She was interested in him
upon two grounds  first, because he was the only
son of the man her aunt had loved and mourned ;
secondly, because he was the first stranger who had
ever come as a guest to Mount Royal.

Her aunts visitors were mostly people whose
faces she had known ever since she could remember :
there were such wide potentialities in the idea of a
perfect stranger, who was to be domiciled at the
Mount for an indefinite period.

 Suppose we don't like him T' she said, speculatively,
to Jessie Bridgeman, Mrs. TregonelFs housekeeper,
companion, and factotum, who had lived at
Mount Royal for the last six years, coming there
a girl of twenty, to make herself generally useful
in small girlish ways, and proving herself such a
clever manager, so bright, competent, and far-seeing,
that she had been gradually entrusted with every

household care from the largest to the most
minute. Miss Bridgeman was neither brilliant nor
accomplished, but she had a genius for homely-things,
and she was admirable as a companion.

The two girls were out on the hills in the early
autumn morning  hills that were golden where the
sun touched them purple in the shadow. The
heather was fading, the patches of furze-blossom
were daily growing rarer. Yet the hillsides were
alive with light and colour, only less lovely than
the translucent blues and greens of yonder wide-stretching
sea.

Suppose we should all dislike him ?'' repeated
Christabel, digging the point of her walking-stick
into a ferny hillock on the topmost edge of a deep
cleft in the hills, on which commanding spot she had
just taken her stand, after bounding up the narrow
path from the little wooden bridge at the bottom of
the glen, almost as quickly and as lightly as if she
had been one of the deeply ruddled sheep that spent
their lives on those precipitous slopes ; " wouldn't it
be too dreadful, Jessie ?''

'' It would be inconveniently answered Miss

BridgemaH;, coolly resting both lances on the horny
crook of her sturdy umbrella,, and gazing placidly
seaward ; " but we could cut him/

Not without offending Auntie. She is sure to
like him, for the sake of Auld Lang Syne. Every
look and tone of his will recall his father. But we
may detest him. And if he should like Mount
Royal very much, and go on staying there for ever !
Auntie asked him for an indefinite period. She
showed me her letter. I thought it was rather
too widely hospitable but I did not like to say
so.

I always say what I thinks said Jessie Bridge -
man, doggedly.

' Of course you do, and go very near being disagreeable
in consequences

Miss Bridgemans assertion was perfectly correct.
A sturdy truthfulness was one of her best qualifications.
She did not volunteer unfavourable criticism;
but if you asked her opinion upon any subject you
got it, without sophistication. It was her rare
merit to have lived with Mrs. Tregonell and 
Courtenay six years, dependent upon their

liking or caprice for all the comforts of her life,
without having degenerated into a flatterer.

 I haven't the slightest doubt as to your liking
him'' said Miss Bridgeman, decisively. '' He has
spent his life for the most part in cities  and in
good society. That I gather from your aunt's
account of him. He is sure to be much more
interesting and agreeable than the young men "who
live near here , whose ideas are, for the most part
strictly local. But I very much doubt his liking
Mount Royale for more than one week's

cried Christabel, indignantly, ' how can
he help liking this She waved her stick across
the autumn landscape, describing a circle which
included the gold and bronze hills, the shadowy
gorges, the bold headlands curving away to Hart-land
on one side, to Tintagel on the other 
Lundyy Island a dim line of dun colour on the
horizon .

"No doubt he will think it beautiful  in
the abstract. He will rave about it, compare it
with the Scottish Highlands  with Wales  with
Kerry, declare these Cornish hills the crowning

glory of Britain. But in three days he will begin to
detest a place where there is only one post out and
in and where he has to wait till next day for his
morning papers"*

"What can he want with newspapers, if he is
enjoying his life with us ? I am sure there are
books enough at Mount Royal. He need not expire
for want of something to reads

Do you suppose that books  the best and
noblest that ever were written  can make up to a
man for the loss of his daily paper ? If you do, offer
a man Shakespeare when he is looking for the Daily
Telegraph, or Chaucer when he wants his Times,
and see what he will say to you. Men don't want
to read nowadays, but to know  to be posted in the
very latest movements of their fellow-men all over
the universe. Renter's column is all anybody
really cares for in the paper. The leaders and the
criticism are only so much padding to fill the
sheet. People would be better pleased if there were
nothing but telegrams.'

A man who only reads newspapers must be a
most vapid companion's said Christabel.

 Hardly, for he must be brim full of facts''

I abbot facts. Well, if Mr. Harleigh is that
kind of person, I hope he may be tired of the Mount
in less than a weeks

She was silent and thoughtful as they went home
by the monastic churchyard in the hollow, the
winding lane, and steep village street. Jessie had
a message to carry to one of Mrs. TregonelFs pensioners,
Who lived in a cottage in the lane ; but
Christabel, who was generally pleased to show her
fair young face in such abodes, waited outside on
this occasion, and stood in a profound reverie, digging
the point of her stick into the loose earth of
the mossy bank in front of her, and seriously
damaging the landscape.

' I hate a man who does not care for books, who
does not love our dear English poets, she said to
herself. " But I must not say that before Auntie.
It would be almost like saying that I hated my cousin
Leonard. I hope Mr. Harleigh will be  just a
little different from Leonard. Of course he will,
if his life has been spent in cities; but then he maybe
languid and supercilious, looking upon Jessie and

me as inferior creatures ; and that would be worse
than Leonardoss roughness. For we all know what
a good heart Leonard has and how warmly attached
he is to usJ'

Somehow the idea of Leonardoss excellent heart
and affectionate disposition was not altogether a
pleasant one. Christabel shuddered ever so faintly
as she stood in the lane thinking of her cousin, who
had last been heard of in the Finis. She banished
his image with an effort, and returned to her
consideration of that unknown quantity, Angus
Harleigh.

I am an idiot to be making fancy pictures of
him, when at seven o'clock this evening I shall
know all about him for good or eviV she said
aloud, as Jessie came out of the cottage, which
nestled low down in its little garden, with a slate
for a doorstep, and a slate standing on end at each
side of the door, for boundary line, or ornament.

"All that is to be known of the outside of him,"
said Jessie, answering the girls outspoken thought.
If he is really worth knowing, his mind will need
a longer study."

VOL. I. D

 I think I shall know at the first glance if he is
likeable/ replied Christabel ; and then, with a
tremendous effort, she contrived to talk about other
things as they went down the High Street of Bos-castle,
which, to people accustomed to a level world,
is rather trying. With Christabel the hills were
only an excuse for flourishing a Swiss walking-stick.
The stick was altogether needless for support to
that light well-balanced figure. Jessie, who was very
small and slim and sure-footed, always carried her
stout little umbrella, winter or summer. It washer
vade-mecum  good against rain, or sun, or mad
bulls, or troublesome dogs. She would have scorned
the affectation of cane or alpenstock : but the
sturdy umbrella was very dear to her.

CHAPTER 11.

BUT THEN CAME ONE, THE LOVELACE OF HIS DAY.

Although Angus Harleigh came of a good old
west country family, he had never been in Cornwall,
and he approached that remote part of the country
with a curious feeling that he was turning his back
upon England and English civilization, and entering a
strange wild land where all things would be different.
He would meet with a half-barbarous people, perhaps,
rough, unkempt, ignorant, brutal, speaking to
him in a strange language  such men as inhabited
Perthshire and Inverness before civilization travelled
northward. He had accepted Mrs. TregonelFs invitation
out of kindly feeling for the woman who
had loved his father, and who, but for that father's
untimely death, might have been to him as a second
mother. There was a strong vein of sentiment in
his character, which responded to the sentiment
betrayed unconsciously in every line of Mrs.

TregonelFs letter. His only knowledge of the
father he had lost in infancy had come to him from
the lips of others and it pleased him to think that
here was one whose memory must be fresher than
that of any other friend in whose mind his father's
image must needs be as a living thing. He had
all his life cherished a regretful fondness for that
unknown father, whose shadowy picture he had
vainly tried to recall among the first faint recollections
of babyhood  the dim dreamland of half-awakened
consciousness.

He had frankly and promptly accepted Mrs.
TregonelFs invitation ; yet he felt that in going to
immure himself in an old manor house for a fortnight
 anything less than a fortnight would have
been uncivil  he was dooming himself to ineffable
boredom. Beyond that pious pleasure in parental
reminiscences, there could be no possible gratification
for a man of the world, who was not an
ardent sportsman, in such a place as Mount Royal.
Mr. Harleigh's instincts were of the town, town.
His pleasures were all of an intellectual kind. He
had never degraded himself by vulgar profligacy.

but he liked a life of excitement and variety ; he
had always lived at high pressure, and among
people posted up to the last moment of the worlds
history  people who drank the very latest pleasure
cup which the Spirit of the Age  a Spirit of
passing frivolity  had invented, were it only the
newest brand of champagne; and who, in their
eagerness to gather the roses of life, outstripped
old Time himself, and grew old in advance of their
age. He had been contemplating a fortnight in
Paris, as the first stage in his journey to Monaco,
when Mrs. TregonelFs letter altered his plans. This
was not the first time she had [asked him to Mount
Royal, but on previous occasions his engagements
had seemed to him too imperative to be foregone,
and he had regretfully declined her invitations. But
now the flavour of life had grown somewhat vapid
for him, and he was grateful to any one who would
turn his thoughts and fancies into a new direction,
I shall inevitably be bored there's he said to
himself, when he had littered the railway carriage
with newspapers accumulated on the way, ' but I
should be bored anywhere else. When a man

begins to feel the pressure of the chain upon his
leg, it cannot much matter where his walks lead
him : the very act of walking is his punishment'

When a man comes to eight-and-twenty years of
age  a man who has had very little to do in this life,
except take his pleasure  a great weariness and sense
of exhaustion is apt to close round him like a pall.
The same man will be ever so much fresher in mind,
will have ever so much more zest for life, when he
comes to be forty  for then he will have entered
upon those calmer enjoyments of middle age which
may last him till he is eighty. But at eight-and-twenty
there is a death-like calmness of feeling.
Youth is gone. He has consumed all the first fruits
of life  spring and summer, with their wealth of
flowers, are over ; only the quiet autumn remains for
him, with her warm browns and dull greys, and cool,
moist breath. The fires upon youths altars have all
died out  youth is dead, and the man who was
young only yesterday fancies that he might as well
be dead also. What is there left for him ? Can
there be any charm in this life when the looker-on
has grey hair and wrinkles ?

Having nothing in life to do except seek this
own pleasure and spend his ample income Angus
Harleigh had naturally taken the time of life's
march prestissimo.

He had never paused in his rose-gathering to
wonder whether there might not be a few thorns
among the flowers and whether he might not find
them  afterwards. And now the blossoms were
all withered, and he was beginning to discover the
lasting quality of the thorns. They were such
thorns as interfered somewhat with the serenity
of his days, and he was glad to turn his face westward,
away from everybody he knew, or who knew
anything about him.

My character will present itself to Mrs. Tree
as a blank page"* he said to himself; ' I
wonder what she would think of me if one of my
club gossips had enjoyed a quiet evening's talk
with her beforehand. A dear friend's analysis of
one's character and conduct is always so flattering to
both; and I have a pleasant knack of offending my
dearest friends V

Mr. Harleigh began to look about him a little

when the train had left Plymouth. The landscape
was wild and romantic, but had none of that
stern ruggedness which he expected to behold
on the Cornish Border. Deep glens, and wooded
dells, with hill-sides steep and broken, but verdant
to their topmost crest, and the most wonderful
oak coppices that he ever remembered to have seen.
Miles upon miles of oak, as it seemed to him, now
sinking into the depth of a valley, now mounting
to the distant sky line, while from that verdant
undulating surface of young wood there stood
forth the giants of the grove  wide-spreading oak
and towering beech, the mighty growth of many
centuries. Between Bedford and Launceston the
scenery grew tamer. He had fancied those deep
ravines and wooded heights the prelude to a
vast and awful symphony, but Mary Navy and
Lufton showed him only a pastoral landscape, with
just so much wood and water as would have served
for a Keswick or a Constable, and with none of
those grand Salvatoresque effects which he had
admired in the country round Tavistock. At
Launceston he found Mrs. TregonelFs landau

waiting for him, with a pair of powerful chestnuts
and a couple of servants, whose neat brown liveries
had nothing of that unsophisticated semi savagery
which Mr. Harleigh had expected in a place so
remote.

Do you drive that way T' he asked, pointing to
the almost perpendicular street.

eyes, sir'' replied the coachman.

Then I think I'll stroll to the top of the hill
while you are putting in my portmanteaux' he said,
and ascended the rustic street at a leisurely pace,
looking about him as he went.

The thoroughfare which leads from Launceston
Station to the ruined castle at the top of the hill
is not an imposing promenade. Its architectural
features might perhaps be best described like the
snakes of Ireland as nil  but here arid there an
old-fashioned lattice with a row of flower-pots, an
ancient gable, or a bit of cottage garden hints at
the picturesque. Any late additions to the domestic
architecture of Launceston favour the unpretending
usefulness of Camden Town rather than the
aspiring sestheticism of Chelsea or Bedford Park ;

but to Mr. Hamleighs eye the rugged old castle keep
on the top of the hill made amends. He was not
an ardent archaeologist; and he did not turn out of
his way to see Launceston Church, which might
well have rewarded him for his trouble. He was
content to have spared those good-looking chestnuts
the labour of dragging him up the steep.
Here they came springing up the hill. He took
his place in the carriage, pulled the fur rug over
his knees, and ensconced himself comfortably in
the roomy back seat.

' This is a sybaritish luxury which I was not
prepared fors he said to himself. " Vm. afraid I
shall be rather more bored than I expected. I
thought Mrs. Tregonell and her surroundings
would at least have the merit of originality. But
here is a carriage that must have been built by
Peters, and liveries that suggest the sartorial
excellence of Conduit Street or Savile Rowe's''

He watched the landscape with a critical eye,
prepared for disappointment and disillusion. First
a country road between tall ragged hedges and
steep banks, a road where every now and then

the branches of the trees hung low over the
carriage and threatened to knock the coachman's
hat off. Then they came out upon the wide
waste of moorland, a thousand feet above the sealevel,,
and Mr. Harleigh, acclimatized to the atmosphere
of club-houses buttoned his overcoat, drew
the black fur rug closer about him, and shivered
a little as the keen breath of the Atlantic, sweeping
over far-reaching tracts of hill and heather, blew
round him. Far and wide as his gaze could reach,
he saw no sign of human habitation. Was the
land utterly forsaken ? No ; a little farther on they
passed a hamlet so insignificant, so isolated, that
it seemed rather as if half a dozen cottages had
dropped from the sky than that so lonely a settlement
could be the result of deliberate human inclination.
Never in Scotland or Ireland had Mr.
Harleigh seen a more barren landscape or a
poorer soil; yet those wild wastes of heath, those
distant tors were passing beautiful, and the air he
breathed was more inspiring and exhilarating than
the atmosphere of any vaunted health-resort which
he had ever visited.

'' I think I might live to middle age if I were to
pitch my tent on this Cornish plateau' he thought;
' but, then, there are so many things in this life that
are worth more than mere length of days'

He asked the names of the hamlets they passed.
This lonely church, dedicated to St. David  whence,
oh ! whence came the congregation  belonged to
the parish of Davidson; and here there was a
holy well ; and here a Vicarage ; and there  oh !
crowning evidence of civilization  a post-office ;
and there a farm-house ; and that was the end of
Davidson. A little later they came to cross
Toads, and the coachman touched his hat, and said,
This is Victoria'' as if he were naming a town
or settlement of some kind. Mr. Harleigh looked
about him, and beheld a low-roofed cottage, which
he assumed to be some kind of public-house,
possibly capable of supplying beer and tobacco ;
but other vestige of human habitation there was
none. He leant back in the carriage, looking
across the hills, and saying to himself, " Why,
Victoria ?" Was that unpretentious and somewhat
dilapidated hostelry the Victoria Hotel ? or the

Victoria Arms ? or was Royalties honoured name
given in an arbitrary manner to the cross roads-and
the granite finger-post ? He never knew.
The coachman said shortly " Victoria and a&
Victoria" he ever after heard that spot described.
And now the journey was all downhill. They
drove downward and downward, until Mr. harleigh
began to feel as if they were travelling
towards the centre of the earth  as if they had got
altogether below the outer crust of this globe and
must be gradually nearing the unknown gulfs
beneath. Yet, by some geographical mystery, when
they turned out of the high road and went in at a
lodge gate and drove gently upward along an
avenue of elms, in whose rugged tops the rooks
were screaming , Mr. Harleigh found that he was
still high above the undulating edges of the cliffs
that overtopped the Atlantic, while the great waste
of waters lay far below, golden with the last rays
of the setting sun.

They drove, by a gentle ascent, to the
stone porch of Mount Royal, and here Mrs.
Tregonell stood, facing the sunset, with an

Indian shawl wrapped round her, waiting for her
guest.

' I heard the carriage, Mr. Harleigh she said,
as Angus alighted ; ' I hope you do not think me
too impatient to see what change twelve years
have made in you ? ''

Im afraid they have not been particularly
advantageous to me'' he answered, lightly, as they
shook hands. ' How good of you to receive me
on the threshold ! and what a delightful place you
have here ! Before I got to Launceston, I began to
be afraid that Cornwall was commonplace  and
now I am enchanted with it. Your moors and
hills are like fairy-land to me ! '

It is a world of our own, and we are very
fond of it,'' said the widow ; ' I shall be sorry if
ever a railway makes Boscastle open to everybody's'


' And what a noble old house ! '' exclaimed
Angus, as he followed his hostess across the oak-panelled
hall, with its wide shallow staircase,
curiously carved balustrades, and lantern roof.
"Are you quite alone here''

'' Oh, no ; I have my niece and a young lady
ivho is a companion to both of us."

Angus Harleigh shuddered.

Three women ! He was to exist for a fortnight
in a house with three solitary females. A niece
and a companion ! The niece, rustic and gawky ;
the companion sour and frumpish. He began
hurriedly, to cast about in his mind for a convenient
friends to whom he could telegraph to send
him a telegram, summoning him back to London
on urgent business. He was still meditating this,
when the butler opened the door of a spacious
room, lined from floor to ceiling with books, and
he followed Mrs. Tregonell in, and found himself
in the bosom of the family. The simple picture of
home-comfort, of restfulness and domestic peace,
which met his curious gaze as he entered, pleased
him better than anything he had seen of late.
Club life  with its too studious indulgence of man's
native selfishness and love of ease  fashionable life,
with its insatiable craving for that latter-day
form of display which calls itself Culture, Art, or
Beauty  had afforded him no vision so enchanting

as the wide hearth and high chimney of this sober,
book-lined room, with the fair and girlish form
kneeling in front of the old dogstove, framed in the
glaring light of the fire.

The tea-table had been wheeled near the hearth,
and Miss Bridgeman sat before the bright red tea-tray,
and old brass kettle, ready to administer to
the wants of the traveller, who would be hardly
human if he did not thirst for a cup of tea after
driving across the moor. Christabel knelt in front
of the fire, worshipping, and being worshipped by,
a sleek black-and-white sheep-dog, native to the
soil, and of a rare intelligence  a creature by no
means approaching the Scotch colles in physical
beauty, but of a fond and faithful nature, born to bethe
friend of man. As Christabel rose and turned
to greet the stranger, Mr. Harleigh was agreeably
reminded of an old picture  a Lely or a Kneller,
perhaps. This was not in any wise the rustic
image which had flashed across his mind at the
mention of Mrs. TregonelFs niece. He had expected
to see a bouncing, countryfied maiden 
rosy, buxom, the picture of commonplace health

and vigour. The girl he saw was nearer akin to
the lily than the rose  tall, slender, dazzlingly
fair  not fragile or sickly in anywise  for the
erect figure was finely moulded, the swan-like
throat was round and full. He was prepared for
che florid beauty of a milkmaid, and he found
himself face to face with the elegance of an ideal
duchess, the picturesque loveliness of an old
Venetian portrait.

Christabel's dark brown velvet gown and square
point lace collar, the bright hair falling in
shadowy curls over her forehead, and rolled into a
loose knot at the back of her head, sinned in nowise
against Mr. Hamleighs notions of good taste.
There was a picturesqueness about the style which
indicated that Miss Courtenay belonged to that
.advanced section of womankind which takes its
ideas less from modern fashion-plates than from
old pictures. So long as her archaism went no
further back than Vandyke or Moroni he would
admire and approve ; but he shuddered at the
thought that tomorrow she might burst upon him
in a medical morning-gown, with high-shouldered

VOL. I. E

sleeves, a ruff, and a satchel. The picturesque idea?
was good, within limits ; but one never knew how
far it might go.

There was nothing picturesque about the lady
sitting before the tea-tray, who looked up brightly,
and gave him a gracious bend of her small neat
head, in acknowledgment of Mrs. TregonelFs introduction
 '' Mr. Harleigh, Miss Bridgeman V
This was the companion  and the companion was
plain : not unpleasantly plain, not in any manner
repulsive, but a lady about whose looks there
could be hardly any compromise. Her complexion
was of a sallow darkness unrelieved by
any glow of colour; her eyes were grey acute,
honest,, friendly, but not beautiful; her nose was
sharp and pointed  not at all a bad nose ; but there
was a hardness about nose and mouth and chin, as
of features cut out of bone with a very sharp knife.
Her teeth were good and in a lovelier mouth might
have been the object of much admiration. Her
hair was of that nondescript monotonous brown
which has been unkindly called bottle-green, but it
was arranged with admirable neatness, and offended

less than many a tangled pate, upon whose locks
of spurious gold the owner has wasted much time
and money. There was nothing unpardonable in
Miss Bridgeman's plainness, as Angus Harleigh
said of her later. Her small figure was neatly
made, and her dark-grey gown fitted to perfection.

 I hope you like the little bit of Cornwall that
you have seen this afternoon, Mr. Hamleigh, said
Christabel, seating herself in a low chair in the
shadow of the tall chimney-piece, fenced in by her
aunts larger chair.

' I am enraptured with it ! I came here with
the desire to be intensely Cornish. I am prepared
to believe in witches  warlocks '

We have no warlocks," said Christabel. ' They
belong to the North's

Well, then, wise women  wicked young men
who play football on Sunday, and get themselves
turned into granite  rocking stones  magic wells 
Druids  and King Arthur. I believe the principal
point is to be open to conviction about Arthur.
Now, I am prepared to swallow everything  his
castle  the river where his crown was found after

e2

the fight  was it his crown, by-the-by, or somebody
else's ? which he found  his hair-brushes  his
boots  anything you please to show me'

We will show you his quoit tomorrow, on
the road to Tintagel' said Miss Bridgeman. " I
don't think you would like to swallow that actually.
He hurled it from Tintagel to Trevalga in one of his
sportive moods. We shall be able to give you
plenty of amusement if you are a good walker, and
are fond of hills''

I adore them in the abstract, contemplated
from one's windows, or in a picture; but there
is an incompatibility between the human anatomy
and a road set on end, like a ladder, which I have
never yet overcome. Apart from the outside question
of my legs  which are obvious failures when tested
by an angle of forty five degrees  I'm afraid
my internal machinery is not quite so tough as it
ought to be for a thorough enjoyment of mountaineering."


Mrs. Tregonell sighed, ever so faintly, in the
twilight. She was thinking of her first lover, and
how that fragility, which meant early death, had

showed itself in his inability to enjoy the moorland
walks which were the delight of her girlhood.

"The natural result of bad habits'' said Miss
Bridgeman, briskly. ' How can you expect to be
strong or active when I dare say you have spent
the better part of your life in hansom cabs and
express trains ! I don't mean to be impertinent
but I know that is the general way with gentlemen
out of the shooting and hunting seasons

' And as I am no sportsman, I am a somewhat
exaggerated example of the vice of laziness fostered
by congenial circumstances, acting on a
lymphatic temperament. If you write books, as I
believe most ladies do now-a-days, you should put
me into one of them, as an awful warnings

I don't write books, and, if I did, I would not
flatter your vanity by making you my model sinner,"
retorted Jessie ; " but 111 do something better for
you, if Christabel will help me. 111 reform you."

A million thanks for the mere thought ! I
hope the process will be pleasant."

I hope so, too. We shall begin by walking
you off your legs."

' They are so indifferent as a means of locomotion
that I could very well afford to lose them , if
you could hold out any hope of my getting a
better pairs

'' A week hence, if you submit to my treatment
you will be as active as the chamois hunter in
'' Manfred ''

Enchanting  always provided that you and
Miss Courtenay will follow the chase with me''

' Depend upon it, we shall not trust you to take
your walks alone, unless you have a pedometer
which will bear witness to the distance you have
done, and which you will be content to submit to our
inspection on your return'' replied Jessie, sternly.

I am afraid you are a terribly severe high
priestess of this new form of culture," said Mr.
Harleigh, looking up from his tea-cup with a lazy
smile, ** almost as bad as the Dweller on the
Threshold, in Buller's ' Zanoni.' "

There is a dweller on the threshold of every
science and every admirable mode of life, and his
name is Idleness'' answered Miss Bridgeman.

The vis inertiae, the force of letting things alone,"

said Angus ; " yes, that is a tremendous power,
nobly exemplified by vestries and boards of works 
to say nothing of Cabinets, Bishops, and the High
Court of Chancery ! I delight in that verse of
Scripture, ' Their strength is to sit still '

There shall be very little sitting still for you if
you submit yourself to Christabel and me, replied
Miss Bridgeman.

I have never tried the water-cure  the descriptions
I have heard from adepts have been too
repellent ; but I have an idea that this, system of
yours must be rather worse than hydropathy, said
Angus, musingly  evidently very much entertained
at the way in which Miss Bridgeman had taken him
in hand.

I was not going to let him pose after
Lamartine 'poete mourant, just because his father
died of lung diseases' said Jessie, ten minutes afterwards,
when the warning gong had sounded, and
Mr. Harleigh had gone to his room to dress for
dinner, and the two young women were Whispering
together before the fire, while Mrs. Trcgonell
indulged in a placid doze.

*'Do you think he is consumptive, like hia
father?" asked Christabel, with a compassionate
look j *' he has a very delicate appearance*'

Hollow-checked, and prematurely old like a
man who has lived on tobacco and brandy-and-soda
and has spent his nights in club-house card-rooms."

We have no right to suppose that," said
Christabel;, " since we know really nothing about
him."

*' Major Bree told me he has lived a racket
life, and that if he were not to pull up very soon
he would be ruined both in health and fortune."

What can the Major know about him ?" exclaimed
Christabel, contemptuously.

This Major Bree was a great friend of ChristabeFs;
but there are times when ones nearest and dearest
are too provoking for endurance.

"Major Bree has been buried alive in Cornwall for
the last twenty years. He is at least a quarter of a
century behind the age," she said, impatiently.

*' He spent a fortnight in London the year before
last," said Jessie ; * it was then that he heard such
a bad account of Mr. Harleigh."

Did he go about to clubs and places malvinoj inquiries,
like a private detective ?" said Christabel, still
contemptuous ; " I bate such fetching and carrying!'

Here he comes to answer for himselfe replied
Jessie, as the door opened, and a servant announced
Major Bree.

Mrs. Tregonell started from her slumbers at the
opening of the door , and rose to greet her guests
He was a very frequent visitor so frequent that he
might be said to live at Mount Royal, although his
nominal abode was a cottage on the outskirts of
Boscastle  a stone cottage on the crest of a steep
hill-side, with a delightful little garden, perched, as
it were, on the edge of a verdant abyss. He was
tall, stout, elderly, grey, and florid  altogether a
comfortable-looking man, clean shaved, save for a
thin grey moustache with the genuine cavalry droop,,
iron grey eyebrows, which looked like a repetition
of the moustache on a somewhat smaller scale,
keen grey eyes, a pleasant smile, and a well set-up
figure. He dressed well, with a sobriety becoming
his years, and was always the pink of neatness. A
man welcome everywhere, on account of an inborn

pleasantness;, which prompted him always to say and
do the right thing; but most of all welcome at
Mount Royal , as a first cousin of the late Squire's,
and Mrs. Tregoneirs guide philosopher, and friend
in all matters relating to the outside world, of
which, despite his twenty years liberation at
Boscastle, the widow supposed him to be an acute
observer and an infallible judge. Was he not one
of the few inhabitants of that western village who
took in the Times newspaper ?

Well V exclaimed Major Bree, addressing himself
generally to the three ladies, " he has come 
what do you think of him ?'

' He is painfully like his poor fathers said Mrs.
Tregonell.

He has a most interesting face and winning
manner, and Iii afraid we shall all get ridiculously
fond of him/ said Miss Bridgeman, decisively.

Christabel said nothing. She knelt on the
hearth-rug, playing with Randie, the black-and-white
sheep-dog.

"And what have you to say about him, Chris-table''
asked the Major.

' Nothing. I have not had time to form an
opinion," replied the girl ; and then lifting her clear
bine eyes to the Majors friendly face, she said
gravely, "bat I think, Uncle Oliver, it was very
unkind and unfair of you to prejudice Jessie against
him before he came heres

Unkind !  unfair ! Kerens a shower of
abuse ! I prejudice 1 Oh ! I remember. Mrs. Tree
asked me what people thought of him in
London, and I was obliged to acknowledge that
his reputation was  well  no better than that of the
majority of young men who have more money than
common sense. But that was two years ago 
Nous avons change tout cela I''

If he was wicked then, he must be wicked now'
said Christabel.

Wicked is a monstrously strong word V said
the Major. " Besides, that does not follow. A
man may have a few wild oats to sow, and yet
become a very estimable person afterwards. Miss
Bridgeman is tremendously sharp  she'll be
able to find out all about Mr. Harleigh from
personal observation before he has been here a

week. I defy him to hide his weak points from
hers

-' What is the use of being plain and insignificant
if one has not some advantage over one's superior
fellow creatures T' asked Jessie.

Miss Bridgeman has too much expression to be
plain, and she is far too clever to be insignificant'
said Major Bree, with a stately bow. He always
put on a stately manner when he addressed himself
to Jessie Bridgeman, and treated her in all things
with as much respect as if she had been a queen.
He explained to Christabel that this was the homage
which he paid to the royalty of intellect; but
Christabel had a shrewd suspicion that the Major
cherished a secret passion for Miss Bridgeman, as
exalted and as hopeless as the love that Chastened
bore for Mary Stuart. He had only a small pittance
besides his half-pay, and he had a very poor opinion
of his own merits ; so it was but natural that, at
fifty-five, he should hesitate to offer himself to a
young lady of six-and-twenty, of whose sharp tongue
he had a wholesome awe.

Mr. Harleigh came back before much more

could be said about him, and a few minutes afterwards
they all went in to dinner, and in the brighter
lamplight of the dining-room Major Bree and the
three ladies had a better opportunity of forming
their opinion as to the external graces of their
guess.

He was good-looking  that fact even malice could
hardly dispute. Not so handsome as the absent
Leonard, Mrs. Tregonell told herself complacently;
but she was constrained at the same time to acknowledge
that her sons broadly moulded features and
florid complexion lacked the charm and interest
which a woman's eye found in the delicate chiselling
and subdued tones of Angus Harleigh's countenance.
His eyes were darkest grey, his complexion was fair
and somewhat pallid, his hair brown, with a natural
curl which neither fashion nor the barber could
altogether suppress. His cheeks were more sunken
than they should have been at eight-and-twenty, and
the large dark eyes were unnaturally bright. All
this the three ladies and Major Bree had ample time
for observing, during the leisurely course of dinner.
There was no flagging in the conversation, from the

beginning to the end of the repast. Mr. Harleigh
was ready to talk about anything and everything,
and his interest in the most trifling local subjects,,
whether real or assumed made him a delightful
companion. In the drawing-rooms after dinner, he
proved even more admirable; for he discovered a
taste for, and knowledge of, the best music, which
delighted Jessie and Christabel, who were both
enthusiasts. He had read every book they cared
for  and a wide world of books besides  and was
able to add to their stock of information upon all
their favourite subjects, without the faintest touch
of arrogance.

I don't think you can help liking him, Jessie,
said Christabel, as the two girls went upstairs to bed.
The younger lingered a little in Miss Bridgeman's
room for the discussion of their latest ideas. There
was a cheerful fire burning in the large basket grate
for autumn nights were chill upon that wild coast.
Christabel assumed her favourite attitude in front
of the fire, with her faithful Katie winking and
blinking at her and the fire alternately. He was a
privileged dog  allowed to sleep on a sheepskin matin

the gallery outside this mistress's door, and to go
into her room every morning , in company with the
maid who carried her early cup of tea; when, after
the exchange of a few remarks, in baby language on
her part and expressed on his by a series of
curious grins and much wagging of his insignificant
apology for a tail, he would dash out of the room,
and out of the house, for his morning constitutional
among the sheep upon some distant hill  coming
home with an invigorated appetite, in time for the
family breakfast at nine o'clock.

' I don't think you can help liking him  as  asa
casual acquaintance !" repeated Christabel, finding
that Jessie stood in a dreamy silence, twisting her
one diamond ring  a birthday gift from Miss
Courtenay  round and round upon her slender
finger.

"1 don't suppose any of us can help liking him,'
Jessie answered at last, with her eyes on the fire.
All I hope is, that some of us will not like him
too much. He has brought a new element into
our lives  a new interest  which may end by being
a painful one. I feel distrustful of him."

"Why distrustful? Why, Jessie, you who are generally
the very essence of flippancy  who make light
of almost everything in life  except religion 
thank God, you have not come to that yet !  you
to be so serious about such a trifling matter as a
visit from a man who will most likely be gone
back to London in a fortnight  gone out of our
lives altogether, perhaps : for I don't suppose he
will care to repeat his experiences in a lonely
country-houses''

He may be gone, perhaps  yes  and it is quite
possible that he may never return  but shall we be
quite the same after he has left us ? AVill nobody
regret him  wish for his return  yearn for it 
sigh for it  die for it feeling life worthless  a
burthen, without him ?"

Why, Jessie, you look like a Pythoness'

* Belle, Belle, my darling, my innocent one, you do
not know what it is to care  for a bright particular
star  and know how remote it is from your life 
never to be brought any nearer ! I felt afraid tonight
when I saw you and Mr. Harleigh at the
piano  you playing, he leaning over you as you

played  both seeming so happy, so united by the
sympathy of the moment! If he is not a good
m an  if ''

But we have no reason to think ill of him.
You remember what Uncle Oliver said  he had only
been  a  a little racket, like other young mens
said Christabel, eagerly; and then, with a sudden
embarrassment, reddening and laughing shyly, she
added,  and indeed, Jessie, if it is any idea of danger
to me that is troubling your wise head, there is no
need for alarm. I am not made of such inflammable
stuff"  I am not the kind of girl to fall in
love with the first comer."

With the first comer no ! But when the
Prince comes in a fairy tale, it matters little
whether he come first or last. Fate has settled the
whole story beforehand."

 Fate has had nothing to say about me and
Mr. Harleigh. No, Jessie, believe me, there is
no danger for me  and I don't suppose that you
are going to fall in love with him ?"

Because I am so old ?" said Miss Bridgeman,
still looking at the fire ; " no, it would be rather

VOL. I. F

ridiculous in a person of my age , plain and passee,
to fall in love with your Alcibiades

Nos Jessie, but because you are too wise ever to
be carried away by a sentimental fancy. But why
do you speak of him so contemptuously ? One
would think you had taken a dislike to him. We
ought at least to remember that he is my aunts
friend, and the son of some one she once dearly
loved.

Once/ repeated Jessie softly ; " does not once
in that case mean always ?"

She was thinking of the Squires commonplace
good looks and portly figure, as represented in the
big picture in the dining-room  the picture of a
man in a red coat leaning against the shoulder of a
big bay horse, and with a pack of harriers fawning
round him  and wondering whether the image of
that dead man, whose son was in the house to-night,
had not sometimes obtruded itself upon the calm
plenitude of Mrs. TregonelPs domestic joys.

Don't be afraid that I shall forget my duty to
your aunt or your aunt's guest, dear'' she said
suddenly; as if awaking from a reverie. 'You

and I will do all in our power to make him happy,
and to shake him out of lazy London ways and
then when we have patched up his health, and the
moorland air has blown a little colour into his
hollow cheeks, we will send him back to his clubs
and his theatres, and forget all about him. And
now, good-night, my Christie'' she said, looking at
her watch ; " see ! it is close upon midnight  dreadful
dissipation for Mount Royal, where half-past
ten is the usual hour."

Christabel kissed her and departed,, Randie
following to the door of her chamber  such a
pretty room, with old panelled walls painted
pink and grey, old furniture, old china, snowy
draperies, and books  a girls daintily bound books,
selected and purchased by herself  in every available
corner ; a neat cottage piano in a recess, a low
easy-chair by the fire, with a five-o'clock tea-table
in front of it; desks, portfolios, work-baskets  all
the frivolities of a girls life ; but everything arranged
with a womanly neatness which indicated industrious
habits and a well-ordered mind. No scattered
sheets of music  no fancy-work pitch-ands tossed

r2

about the room  uo slovenliness claiming to be
excused as artistic disorder.

Christabel said her prayers and read her
accustomed portion of Scripture, but not without
some faint wrestlings with Satan, who on this
occasion took the shape of Angus Harleigh. Her
mind was overcharged with wonder at this new
phenomenon in daily life, a man so entirely different
from any of the men she had ever met hitherto 
so accomplished, so highly cultured ; yet taking his
accomplishments and culture as a thing of course,
as if all men were so.

She thought of him as she lay awake for the
first hour of the still night, watching the fire fade
and die, and listening to the long roll of the waves,
hardly audible at Mount Royal amidst all the commonplace
noises of day, but heard in the solemn silence
of night. She let her fancies shape a vision of her
aunt's vanished youth  that one brief bright dream
of happiness, so miserably broken !  and wondered
and wondered how it was possible for any one
to outlive such a grief. Still more incredible
did it seem that any one who had so loved and so

lost could ever listen to another lover ; and yet the
thing had been done, and Mrs. Tregonell's married
life had been called happy. She always spoke of
the Squire as the best of men  was never weary of
praising him  loved to look up at his portrait on
the wall  preserved every unpicturesque memorial
of his unpicturesque life  heavy gold and silver
snuff-boxes, clumsy hunting crops, spurs, guns,
fishing-rods. The relics of his murderous pursuits
would have filled an arsenal. And how fondly she
loved the son who resembled that departed father
save in lacking some of his best qualities ! How
she doated on Leonard, the most commonplace and
unattractive of young men ! The thought of her
cousin set Christabel on a new train of speculation.
If Leonard had been at home when Mr. Harleigh
came to Mount Royal, how would they two have
suited each other ? Like fire and water, like oil
and vinegar, like the wolf and the lamb, like any
two creatures most antagonistic by nature. It was
a happy accident that Leonard was away. She
was still thinking when she fell asleep, with that
uneasy sense of pain and trouble in the future

which was always suggested to her by Leonardoss
image  a dim unshapen difficulty waiting for her
somewhere along the untrodden road of her life 
a lion in the path.

CHAPTER III.

'' TINTAGEL, HALF IN SEA, AND HALF ON Land''

There was no sense of fear or trouble of any kind
in the mind of anybody next morning after breakfast,
-when Christabel, Miss Bridgeman, and Mr.
Harleigh started, in the young lady's own
particular pony carriage, for an exploring day,
attended by Randie, who was intensely excited, and
furnished with a pic-nic basket which made them
independent of the inn at Trevena, and afforded
the opportunity of taking ones luncheon under
difficulties upon a windy height, rather than with
the commonplace comforts of an hotel parlour,
guarded against wind and weather. They were
going to do an immense deal upon this first day.
Christabel, in her eagerness, wanted to exhibit all
her lions at once.

Of course, you must see Tintagel," she said ;
' everybody who comes to this part of the world is

in a tremendous hurry to see King Arthur's castle.
I have known people set out in the middle of the
night."

' And have you ever known any one of them
who was not just a little disappointed with that
stupendous monument of traditional royalty?"
asked Miss Bridgeman , with her most prosaic air,
'they expect so much  halls, and towers, and
keep, and chapel  and find only ruined walls, and
the faint indication of a grave-yard. King Arthur is
a name to conjure with, and Tintagel is like Mont
Blanc or the Pyramids. It can never be so grand
as the vision its very name has evoked."

I blush to say that I have thought very little
about Tintagel hitherto," said Mr. Harleigh; "it
has not been an integral part of my existence ; so
my expectations are more reasonable than those of
the enthusiastic tourist. I promise to be delighted
with your ruins."

Oh, but you will pretend," said Christabel,
and that will be hateful ! I would rather have
to deal with one of those provoking people who
look about them blankly, and exclaim,  Is this all?'

and who stand in the very centre of Arthur's Hall,
and ask,  And, pray, where is Tintagel ?  when are
we to see the castle ? No ! give me the man who
can take in the grandeur of that wild height at a
glance, and whose fancy can build up those ruined
walls, re-create those vanished towers, fill the halls
with knights in shining armour, and lovely ladies 
see Guinevere herself upon her throne  clothed in
white samite  mystic, wonderful V

"And with Lancelot in the background,'' said
Mr. Harleigh. " I think the less we say about
Guinevere the better, and your snaky Vivian, and
your senile Merlin, your prying lodged. What
a disreputable set these Round Table people seem
to have been altogether  they need have been dead
thirteen hundred years for us to admire them \"

They were driving along the avenue by this time
the stout chestnut cob going gaily in the fresh
morning air  Mr Harleigh sitting face to face
with Christabel as she drove. What a fair face it
was in the clear light of day ! How pure and delicate
every tone, from the whiteness of the lily to the
bloom of the wild rose ! How innocent the expression

of the large liquid eyes which seemed to smile
at him as he talked ! He had known so many
pretty women  his memory was like a gallery of
beautiful faces ; but he could recall no face so completely
innocent, so divinely young. ' It is the
youthfulness of an unsullied minds he said to himself;
" I have known plenty of girls as young in
years, but not one perfectly pure from the taint
of worldliness and vanity. The trail of the serpent
was over them all \"

They drove down hill into Boscastle and then
straightway began to ascend still steeper hills upon
the other side of the harbour.

' You ought to throw a viaduct across the
valleys said Mr. Harleigh  '' something like
Brutes bridge at Salts ; but perhaps you have
hardly traffic enough to make it pay."

They went winding up the new road to Trevena,
avoiding the village street, and leaving the Church
of the Silent Tower on its windy height on their
right hand. The wide Atlantic lay far below them
on the other side of those green fields which bordered
the road; the air they breathed was keen with the soft

breath of the sea. But autumn had hardly plucked
a leaf from the low storm-beaten trees or a flower
from the tall hedgerows, where the red blossom of the
Ragged Robin mixed with the pale gold of the hawkweed,
and the fainter yellow of the wild cistus. The
ferns had hardly begun to wither , and Angus harleigh;,
whose last experiences had been among the stonewalls
of Aberdeenshire, wondered at the luxuriance
of this western worlds where the banks were built up
and fortified with boulders of marble-veined spar.

They drove through the village of Trevalga in
which there is never an inn or public-house of any
kind  not even a cottage licensed for the sale of
beer. There was the wheelwright carpenter,, builder,
Jack-of-all-trades, with his shed and his yard  the
blacksmith, with his forge going merrily  village
school  steam threshing-machine at work  church
chapel; but never a drop of beer  and yet the
people at Trevalga are healthy, and industrious, and
decently clad, and altogether comfortable looking.

Some day we will take you to call at the Rectory,"
said Christabel, pointing skywards with her
whip.

Do you mean that the Rector has gone to
Heaven ?'' asked Angus, looking up into the distant
blue ; " or is there any earthly habitation higher
than the road on which we are driving."

Didn't you see the end of the lane, just now ?"
asked Christabel, laughing ; " it is rather steep  an
uphill walk all the way ; but the views are lovely."

We will walk to the Rectory tomorrow," said
Miss Bridgeman ; " this lazy mode of transit must
not be tolerated after to-day."

Even the drive to Trevena was not all idleness; for
after they had passed the entrance to the path leading
to the beautiful waterfall of St. Nectans Sieve, hard
by St. Pirates chapel and well  the former degraded
to a barn, and the latter, once of holy repute, now
chiefly useful as a cool repository for butter from
the neighbouring dairy of Trethevy Farm  they
came to a hill, which had to be walked down ; to
the lowest depth of the Rocky Valley, where a stone
bridge spans the rapid brawling stream that leaps asa
waterfall into the gorge at St. Nectan's Sieve,
about a mile higher up the valley. And then they
came to a corresponding hill, which had to be

walked up  because in either case it was bad for
the cob to have a weight behind him. Indeed, the
cob was so accustomed to consideration in this
matter, that he made a point of stopping politely
for his people to alight at either end of anything
exceptional in the way of a hill.

'' Vvn afraid you spoil your pony/ said Mr.
Harleigh, throwing the reins over his arm, and
resigning himself to a duty which made him feel
very much like a sea-side flyman, earning his day's
wages toilsomely, and saving his horse with a view
to future fares.

Better that than to spoil you," answered Miss
Bridgeman, as she and Christabel walked briskly
beside him. " But if you fasten the reins to the
cardboard, you may trust Felix."

Won't he run away ?"

Not he," answered Christabel. " He knows
that he would never be so happy with anybody else
as he is with us."

But oughtn't he take a fancy for a short run ;
just far enough to allow of his reducing that dainty
little carriage to match wood ? A well-fed under-worked

pony so thoroughly enjoys that kind of
thing'

' Felix has no such diabolical suggestions. He
is a conscientious person, and knows his duty.
Besides, he is not underwood. There is hardly a
day that he does not carry us somewhere .'''

Mr. Harleigh surrendered the reins, and Felix
showed himself worthy of his mistress's confidence,
following at her heels like a dog, with his honest
brown eyes fixed on the slim tall figure, as if it had
been his guiding star.

I want you to admire the landscape'' said
Christabel, when they were on the crest of the last
hill ; " is not that a lovely valley ?"

Mr. Harleigh willingly admitted the fact. The
beauty of a pastoral landscape, with just enough of
rugged wildness for the picturesque, could go no
further.

Keswick has immortalized yonder valley by his
famous picture of the mill," said Miss Bridgeman,
but the romantic old mill of the picture has lately
been replaced by that large ungainly building, quite
out of keeping with its surroundings."

'' Have you ever been in Switzerland ?" asked
Angus of Christabelj when they had stood for some
moments in silent contemplation of the landscape.

Never'

' Nor in Italy ?''

'No. T have never been out of England.
Since I was five years old I have hardly spent a
year of my life out of Cornwall'

*' Happy Cornwall,, which can show so fair a
product of its soil ! Well, Miss Courtenay, I know
Italy and Switzerland by heart, and I like this
Cornish landscape better than either. It is not so
beautiful  it would not do as well for a painter ora
poet ; but it comes nearer an Englishman's heart.
What can one have better than the hills and the
sea ? Switzerland can show you bigger hills ghostly
snow-shrouded pinnacles that mock the eye, following
each other like a line of phantoms, losing themselves
in the infinite; but Switzerland cannot showyouthat."

He pointed to the Atlantic : the long undulating
line of the coast, rocky, rugged, yet verdant, with
many a curve and promontory, many a dip and rise.

 It is the most everlasting kind of beauty, is it

not? asked Christabel, delighted at this little gush
of warm feeling in one whose usual manner was so
equable. sone could never tire of the sea. And I
am always proud to remember that our sea is so big 
stretching away and away to the New World. I
should have liked it still better before the days of
Columbus J when it led to the unknown V

'' Ah !" sighed Angus  youth alway yearns for
the undiscovered. Middle age knows that there is
nothing worth discovering V

On the top of the hill they paused for a minute
or so to contemplate the ancient Borough of
Bossiney, which until disfranchised in 1832 returned
two members to Parliament with a constituency
of little more than a dozen and which
once had Sir Francis Drake for its representative.
Here Mr. Harleigh beheld that modest mound
called the Castle Hill on the top of which it was
customary to read the writs before the elections.

An hour later they were eating their luncheon
on that windy height where once stood the castle of
the great king. To Christabel the whole story of
Arthur and his knights was as real as if it had been

a part of her OAvn life. She had Tennyson Arthur
and Tennyson Lancelot in her heart of hearts,
and knew just enough of Sir Thomas Mallory's
prose to give substance to the Laureate's poetic
shadows. Angus amused himself a little at her
expense, as they ate their chicken and salad on the
grassy mounds which were supposed to be the
graves of heroes who died before Athelstan drove
the Cornish across the Tamar, and made his
victorious progress through the country, even to the
Scilly Isles, after defeating Hotel, the last JCing of
Cornwall. 

 Do you really think that gentlemanly creature
in the Laureate's epic  that most polished and perfect
and most intensely modern English gentleman,
self-contained, considerate of others, always the
right man in the right place  is one whit like that
half-naked sixth century savage  the real Arthur 
whose Court costume was a coat of blue paint, and
whose war-shriek was the yell of a Red Lilian ?
What can be more futile than our setting up anyone
Arthur, and bowing the knee before him, in the
face of the fact that Great Britain teems with monu-

VOL. I. G

ments of Arthur's Arthur's Seat in Scotland,
Arthur's Castle in Wales Arthur's Round Table
here, there, and everywhere ? Be sure that Arthur
Archer  the highest chief  was a generic name
for the princes of those days, and that there were
more Arthur than ever there were Caesar."

I don't believe one word you say," exclaimed
Christabel, indignantly;  there was only one Arthur,
the son of Uther and Ygerne, who was born in the
castle that stood on this very cliff, on the first
night of the year, and carried away in secret
by Merlin, and reared in secret by Sir Anton's
wife  the brave good Arthur  the Christian king
who was killed at the battle of Canaan,
near Slaughter Bridge, and was buried at Glastonbury."


"And embalmed by Tennyson. The Laureate
invented Arthur  he took out a patent for the
Found Table, and his invention is only a little less
popular than that other product of the age, the
sewing-machine. How many among modern tourists
would care about Tintagel if Tennyson had not
revived the old legend ?"

'' I am ready to believe anything now you have
me up heres he said, "for I have a shrewd idea
that without your help I should never be able to
get down again. I should live and die on the top
of this rocky promontory  sweltering in the summer
sun  buffeted by the winter winds  an unwilling
Simeon Stylites."

Do you know that the very finest sheep in
Cornwall are said to be grown on that island"* said
Miss Bridgeman gravely, pointing to the grassy top
of the isolated crag in the foreground, whereon once
stood the donjon keep. "I don't know why it
should be so, but it is a tradition."

 Among butchers T' said Angus. " I suppose
even butchers have their traditions. And the poor
sheep who are condemned to exile on that lonely
rock  the St. Helena of their woolly race  do they
know that they are achieving a posthumous perfection
 that they are straining towards the ideal iu

butcher's meat ? There is room for much thought
in the questions

The tide is outs said Christabel, looking seaward
; " I think we ought to do Trebarwith sands
to-day."

' Is Trebarwith another of your lions ?" asked
Angus placidly.

Yes''

Then, please save him for tomorrow. Let me
drink the cup of pleasure to the dregs where weare.
This champagne has a magical taste like the
philter which Tristan and Iseult were so foolish as
to drink while they sailed across from Ireland to
this Cornish shore. Don't be alarmed, Miss Bridgeman,
I am not going to empty the bottle. I am
not an educated tourist  have read neither Black
nor Murray, and I am very slow about taking in
ideas. Even after all you have told me, I am not clear
in my mind as to which is the castle and which
the chapel, and which the burial-ground. Let us
finish the afternoon dawdling about Tintagel. Let
us see the sun set from this spot, where Arthur must
so often have watched it, if the men of thirteen

hundred years ago ever cared to watch the sun
setting, which I doubt. They belong to the nighttime
of the world, when civilization was dead in
Southern Europe, and was yet unborn in the West.
Let us dawdle about till it is time to drive back
to Mount Royal, and then I shall carry away an
impression. I am very slow at taking impressions."

 I think you want us to believe that you are
stupid'' said Christabel, laughing at the earnestness
with which he pleaded.

Believe me, no. I should like you to think me
ever so much better than I am. Please, let us
dawdle.

They dawdled accordingly. Strolling about
upon the short sea-beaten grass, so treacherous and
slippery a surface in summer time, when fierce Sol
has been baking it. They stumbled against the
foundations of long-vanished walls, they speculated
upon fragments of cyclopean masonry, and talked a
great deal about the traditions of the spot.

Christabel, who had all the old authorities 
Leland, Carew, and Norton  at her fingers' ends,
was delighted to expound the departed glories of

this British fortress. She showed where the
ancient dungeon keep had reared its stony walls
upon that ' high terrible crag, environed with the
sea; and how there had once been a drawbridge
uniting yonder cliff with the buildings on the
mainland  now divorced, as Carew says, " by the
downfall steep cliffs, on the farther side, which,
though it shut out the sea from his wonted recourse,
hath yet more strengthened the island ; for
in passing thither you must first descend with a
dangerous declining, and then make a worse ascent
by a path, through his fickleness occasioning, and
through his steepness threatening, the ruin of your
life, with the falling of your foote'' She told Mr.
Harleigh how, after the Conquest, the castle was
the occasional residence of some of our Princes, and
how Richard, King of the Romans, Earl of Cornwall,
son of King John, entertained here his nephew
David, Prince of Wales, how, in Richard the Seconds
time, this stronghold was made a State prison, and
how a certain Lord Mayor of London was, for his
unruly mayoralty, condemned thither as a perpetual
penitentiary; which seems very hard upon the

chief magistrate of the city, who thus did vicarious

penance for the riot of his brief reign.

And then they talked of Tristan and Iseult , and
the tender okl love-story which lends the glamour
of old-world fancies to those bare ruins of a traditional
past. Christabel knew the old chronicle
through Matthew Arnold's poetical version, which
gives only the purer and better side of the character
of the Knight and Chatelaine, at the expense of
some of the strongest features of the story. Who,
that knew that romantic legend could linger on
that spot without thinking of King Marcos faithless
queen ! Assuredly not Mr. Harleigh, who
was a staunch believer in the inventor of ' sweetness
and light'' and who knew Arnold's verses by
heart.

What have they done with the flowers and the
terrace walks ?'' he said,  '' the garden where Tristan
and his Queen basked in the sunshine of their days ;
and where they parted for ever ? 

* All the spring time of their love
Is already gone and past,
And instead thereof is seen
Its winter, which entirety still 

Tyntagel, on its surge-beat hill,
The pleasaunce walks, the weeping queen,
The flying leaves, the straining blast,
And that long wild kiss  their last.'

And where  oh, where  are those graves in the
Kings chapel in which the tyrant Marc , touched
with pity , ordered the fated lovers to be buried ?
And , behold ! out of the grave of Tristan there sprung
a plant which went along the walls,, and descended
into the grave of the Queen, and though King
Marc three several times ordered this magical
creeper to be cut off root and branch, it was always
found growing again next morning, as if it were
the very spirit of the dead knight struggling to get
free from the grave, and to be with his lady-love
again ! Show me those tombs, Miss Courtenay.'

You can take your choicest said Jessie Bridgeman,
pointing to a green mound or two, overgrown
with long rank grass, in that part of the hill which
was said to be the kingly burial-place. " But as
for your magical tree, there is not so much as a
bramble to do duty for poor Tristan. 

If I were Duke of Cornwall and Lord of Tintagel
Castle, I would 23ut up a granite cross in memory

of the lovers ; though I fear there was very little
Christianity in either of themes said Angus.

'''Anci I would come once a year and hang a
garland on it' said Christabel smiling at him with

Eyes of deep, soft, lucent hue 
Eyes too expressive to be blue,
Too lovely to be grey."

He had recalled those lines more than once when
he looked into Christabel's eyes.

Mr. Harleigh had read so much as to make him
an interesting talker upon any subject; but Cliris-
abel and Jessie noticed that of his own life, his ways
and amusements, his friends, his surroundings, he
spoke hardly at all. This fact Christabel noticed
with wonder, Jessie with suspicion. If a man led a
good wholesome life, he would surely be more frank
and open  he would surely have more to say about
himself and his associates.

They dawdled, and dawdled, till past four o'clock,
and to none of the three did the hours so spent
seem long; but they found that it would make them
too late in their return to INIount loyal were tlicy
to wait for sundown before they turned their faces

homewards; so while the day was still bright, Mr.
Harleigh consented to be guided by steep and
perilous paths to the base of the rocky citadel, and
then they strolled back to the Wharncliffe Arms,
where Felix had been enjoying himself in the stable,
and was now desperately anxious to get home, rattling
up and down hill at an alarming rate, and not
hinting at anybody's alighting to walk.

This was only one of many days spent in the
same fashion. They walked next day to Trebarwith
sands, up and down hills, which Mr. Harleigh
declared were steeper than anything he had ever
seen in Switzerland ; but he survived the walk, and
his spirits seemed to rise with the exertion. This
time Major Bree went with them  a capital companion
for a country ramble, being just enough of
a botanist, archseologist, and geologist, to leaven the
lump of other peoples ignorance, without being
obnoxious scientific. Mr. Harleigh was delighted
with that noble stretch of level sand,
with the long rollers of the Atlantic tumbling in
across the low rocks, and the bold headlands behind
spot beloved of marine painters  spot where the

gulls and the shags hold their revels, and where
man feels himself but a poor creature face to face
with the lonely grandeur of sea, and cliff, and sky.

So rarely is that long stretch of yellow sand vulgarized
by the feet of earths multitudes, that one
half expects to see a procession of frolicsome sea-nymphs
come dancing out of yonder cave, and
wind in circling measures towards the crested wavelets,
gliding in so softly under the calm clear day.

These were halcyon days  an Indian summer 
balmy western zephyrs  sunny noontide  splendid
sunsets  altogether the most beautiful autumn
season that Angus Harleigh had known, or at
least, so it seemed to him  'Lay, even more than
this, surely the most beautiful season of his life.

As the days went on, and day after day was spent
in ChristabeFs company  almost as it were alone with
her, for Miss Bridgeman and Major Bree were but
as figures in the background  Angus felt as if he
were at the beginning of a new life  a life fled with
fresh interests, thoughts, hopes, desires, unknown
and undreamed of in the former stages of his being.
Never before had he lived a life so uneventful  never

before had he been so happy. It surprised him to
discover how simple are the elements of real content
how deep) the charm of a placid existence among
thoroughly loveable people ! Christabel Courtenay
was not the loveliest woman he had ever known, nor
the most elegant, nor the most accomplished, nor
the most fascinating ; but she was entirely different
from all other women with whom his lot had been
cast. Her innocence, her unsophisticated enjoyment
of all earth's purest joys, her transparent purity, her
perfect trustfulness  these were to him as a revelation
of a new order of beings. If he had been told of
such a woman he would have shrugged his shoulders
disbelieving, or would have declared that she must
be an idiot. But Christabel was quite as clever as
those brilliant creatures whose easy manners had
enchanted him in days gone by. She was better
educated than many a woman he knew who passed
for a wit of the first order. She had read more,
thought more, was more sympathetic, more companionable,
and she was delightfully free from self-consciousness
or vanity.

He found himself talking? to Christabel as he had

never talked to any one else since those early days
at the University,, the bright dawn of manhood, when
he confided freely in that second self, the chosen
friend of the hour, and believed that all men lived
and moved according to his own boyish standard of
honour. He talked to her, not of the actualities of
his life, but of his thoughts and feelings  his dreamy
speculations upon the gravest problems which hedge
round the secret of man's final destiny. He talked
freely of his doubts and difficulties, and the half-belief
which came so near unbelief  the wide love of
all creation  the vague yet passionate yearning for
immortality which fell so far short of the Gospel's
sublime certainty. He revealed to her all the
complexities of a many-sided mind, and she never
failed him in sympathy and understanding. This
was in their graver moods, when by some accidental
turn of the conversation they fell into the discussion
of those solemn questions which are always at the
bottom of every man and woman's thoughts, like the
unknown depths of a dark water-pool. For the
most part their talk Alas bright and light as those
sunny autumn days, varied as the glorious and ever-changing

hues of sky and sea at sunset. Jessie was
a delightful companion. She was so thoroughly
easy herself that it was impossible to feel ill at ease
with her. She played her part of confidante so
pleasantly seeming to think it the most natural thing
in the world that those two should be absorbed in
each other, and should occasionally lapse into complete
forgetfulness of her existence. Major Bree
when he joined in their rambles was obviously devoted
to Jessie Bridgeman. It was her neatly gloved
little hand which he was eager to clasp at the crossing
of a still; and where the steepness of the hill-side
path gave him an excuse for assisting her. It washer
stout little boot which he guided so tenderly,
where the ways were ruggedness. Never had a plain
woman a more respectful admirer  never was beauty
in her peerless zenith more devoutly worshipped !

And so the autumn days sped by, pleasantly for
all : with deepest joy  joy ever waxing, never
waning  for those two who had found the secret of
perfect sympathy in thought and feeling. It was
not for Angus Harleigh the first passion of a spotless
manhood ; and yet the glamour and the delight

were as new as if he had never loved before. He
had never so purely, so reverently loved. The
passion was of a new quality. It seemed to him as
if he had ascended into a higher sphere in the
universe, and had given his heart to a creature of a
loftier race.

 Perhaps it is the good old lineage which makes
the difference," he said to himself once, while his
feelings were still sufficiently novel and so far under
his control as to be subject to analysis. "The
women I have cared for in days gone ,by have
hardly got over their early affinity with the gutter ;
or when I have admired a woman of good family
she has been steeped to the lips in worldliness and
vanity."

Mr. Harleigh, who had told himself that he was
going to be intensely bored at Mount Koyal, had
been Mrs. TregonelFs guest for three weeks, and it
seemed to him as if the time were brief and beautiful
as one of those rare dreams of impossible
bliss which haunt our waking memories, and make
actual life dull and joyless by contrast with the
glory of shadowed. No word had yet been

spoken  nay, at the very thought of those words
which most lovers in his position would have been
eager to speak, his soul sickened and his cheek
paled; for there would be no joy fulness in the
revelation of his love  indeed, he doubted whether
he had the right to reveal it  whether duty and
honour did not alike constrain him to keep his
converse within the strict limits of friendship, to bid
Christabel good-bye, and turn his back upon Mount
'Rojalj without having said one word more than a
friend might speak. Happy as Christabel had
been with him  tenderly as she loved him she
was far too innocent to have considered herself ill-treated
in such a case. She would have blamed
herself alone for the weakness of mind which had
been unable to resist the fascination of his society
she would have blushed and wept in secret for
her folly in having loved unmoved.

Has the eventful question been asked ?" Jessie
inquired one night, as Christabel lingered, after her
wont, by the fire in Miss Bridgemans bedroom.
* You two were so intensely earnest to-day as
you walked ahead of the Major and me, that I

said to myself, ' now is the time  the crisis has
arrived V "

"There was no crisis answered Christabel,
crimsoning ; " he has never said one word to me
that can imply that I am any more to him than the
most indifferent acquaintances''

What need of words when every look and tone
cries ' I love you V Why he idolizes you, and he
lets all the world see it. I hope it may be well for
you  both V

Christabel was on her knees by the fire. She
laid her cheek against Jessicass waistband, and drew
Jessicass arm round her neck, holding her hand
lovingly.

Do you really think he  cares for me ?" she
faltered, with her face hidden.

"Do I really think that I have two eyes, and
something which is at least an apology for a nose !"
ejaculated Jessie, contemptuously. " Why, it has
been patent to everybody for the last fortnight that
you two are over head and ears in love with each
other. There never was a more obvious case of
mutual infatuation."

VOL. I. H

Oh, Jessie ! surely I have not betrayed myself.
I know that I have been very weak  but I have
tried so hard to hide '''

*'And have been about as successful as the
ostrich. While those drooping lashes have been
lowered to hide the love-light in your eyes, your
whole countenance has been an illuminated calendar
of your folly. Poor Belle ! to think that she has
not betrayed herself, while all Boscastle is on tiptoe
to know when the wedding is to take place. Why
the parson could not see you two sitting in the
same pew without knowing that he would be
reading your banns before he was many Sundays
older.

' And you  really  like him T' faltered Chris-abel;
more shyly than before.

Yes/-' answered Jessie, with a provoking lack
of enthusiasm. ' I really like him. I can't help
feeling sorry for Mrs. Tregonell, for I know she
wanted you to marry Leonard."

Christabel gave a little sigh, and a faint shiver.

Poor dear Leonard ! I wonder what traveller's
hardships he is enduring while we are so snug and

happy at Mount Royal ?'' she said, kindly. " He
has an excellent heart '''

Troublesome people always have , I believe''
interjected Jessie. '' It is their redeeming feature,
the existence of which no one can absolutely disproved


' And I am very much attached to him  as a
cousin  or as an adopted brother ; but as to our ever
being married  that is quite out of the question.
There never were two people less suited to each
other''

Those are the people who usually come together'
said J esse ; ' the Divorce Court could
hardly be kept going if it were not so."

Jessie, if you are going to be cynical I shall
say good-night. I hope there is no foundation for
what you said just now. I hope that Auntie has
no foolish idea about Leonard and me."

'' She has  or had  one prevailing idea, and I
fear it will go hard with her when she has to
relinquish it' answered Jessie, seriously. " I know
that it has been her dearest hope to see you and
Leonard married, and I should be a wretch if T

ji '?

were not sorry for her disappointment, when she
has been so good to me. But she never ought to
have invited Mr. Harleigh to Mount Royal. That
is one of those mistakes the consequences of which
last for a lifetime.''

' I hope he likes me  just a little pursued
Christabel, with dreamy eyes fixed on the low wood
fire ; ' but sometimes I fancy there must be some
mistake  that he does not really care a straw forme.
More than once, when he has began to say
something that sounded '

business-like, " suggested Jessie, as the girl
hesitated.

He has drawn back  seeming almost anxious
to recall his words. Once lie told me  quite
seriously  that he had made up his mind never to
marry. Now, that doesn't sound as if he meant to
marry me''

"That is not an uncommon way of breaking
ground' answered Jessie, with her matter-of-fact
air.  A man tells a girl that he is going to die a
bachelor  which makes it seem quite a favour
on his part when he proposes. All women sigh for

the unattainable ; and a man who distinctly states
that he is not in the market is likely to make a
better bargain when he surrenders."

I should be sorry to think Mr. Harleigh
capable of such petty ideas said Christabel. *' He
told me once that he was like Achilles. Why
should he be like Achilles ? He is not a soldier."

Perhaps, it is because he has a Grecian nose,"
suggested Miss Bridgeman.

How can you imagine him so vain and foolish,"
cried Christabel, deeply offended.  I begin to think
you detest him !"

No, Belle, I think him charming, only too
charming, and I had rather the man you loved
were made of sterner metal  not such a man as
Leonard, whose loftiest desires are centred instable
and gun-room ; but a man of an altogether
different type from Mr. Harleigh. He has too
much of the artistic temperament, without being an
artist  he is too versatile, too soft-hearted and
impressionable. I am afraid for you, Christabel, I
am afraid; and if it were not too late  if your
heart were not wholly given to him "

'' It is' answered Christabel, tearfully, with her
face hidden ; " I hate myself for being so foolish,
but I have let myself love him. T know that I may
never be his wife  I do not even think that he has
any idea of marrying me  but I shall never marry
any other man. Oh, Jessie! for pity's sake don't betray
me ; never let my aunt, or any one else in this world,
learn what I have told you. I can't help trusting
you  you wind yourself into my heart somehow,
and find out all that is hidden there \"

' Because I love you truly and honestly, my
dear," answered Jessie, tenderly -, " and now, goodnight
; I feel sure that Mr. Harleigh will ask you
to be his wife, and I only wish he were a better

CHAPTER IV.

' love ! thou art leading me from wintry
cold''
After this came two or three dull and showery days
which afforded no opportunity for long excursions
or ramblings of any kind. It was only during
such rambles that Mr. Harleigh and Miss
Courtenay ever found themselves alone. Mrs.
TregonelFs ideas of propriety were of the old-fashioned
school, and when her niece was not under
her own wing, she expected Miss Bridgeman to
perform all the duties of a duenna  in no wise
suspecting how very loosely her instructions upon
this point were being carried out. At Mount
Royal there was no possibility of confidential talk
between Angus and Christabel. If thcv were in the
drawing-room or library, i\Irs. Trcgonell was with
them ; if they played billiards, Miss Bridgeman was
told ois to mark for them ; if they went for a constitutional

walk between the showers,, or wasted
half-an-hour in the stables looking at horses and
dogs Miss Bridgeman was bidden to accompany
them ; and though they had arrived at the point of
minding her very little, and being sentimental and
sympathetic under her very nose, still there are
limits to the love-making that can be carried on
before a third person, and a man would hardly care
to propose in the presence of a witness. So for
three days Christabel still remained in doubt as to
Mr. Harleigh's real feelings. That manner of
making tender little speeches, and then, as it were,
recalling them, was noticeable many times during
those three days ot domesticity. There was a
hesitancy  an uncertainty in his attentions to
Christabel which Jessie interpreted ill.

' There is some entanglement, I daresay,'''' she
told herself ; "it is the evil of his past life which
holds him in the toils. How do we know that he
has not a wife hidden away somewhere ? He ought
to declare himself or he ought to go away ! If this
kind of shillyshallying goes on much longer he will
break Christabers heart."

Miss Bridgeman was determined that, if it were
in her power to hasten the crisis the crisis should
be hastened. The proprieties, as observed by Mrs.
Tregonell might keep matters in abeyance till
Christmas. Mr. Harleigh gave no hint of his
departure. He might stay at Mount Royal for
months sentimentalizing with Christabel, and ride
off at the last compromised.

The fourth day was the Feast of St. Luke. The
weather had brightened considerably, but there was
a high wind  a south-west wind, with occasional
showers.

' Of course, yon are going to church this
morning' said Jessie to Christabel, as they rose
from the breakfast-table.

Church this morning ?'' repeated Christabel,
vaguely.

For the first time since she had been old enough
to understand the services of her Church, she had
forgotten a Saints day.

'' It is St. Luke's Day."

Yes, I remember. And the service is at
Minster. We can walk across the hills."

May I go with you T' asked Mr. Harleigh.

Do you like Tree-day services ?" inquired
Jessie, with rather a mischievous sparkle in her
keen grey eyes.

I adore themes answered Angus, who had not
been inside a church on a week-day since he was
best man at a friend's wedding.

"' Then we will all go together," said Jessie.
May Brook bring the pony-carriage to fetch us
home, Mrs. Tregonell ? I have an idea that Mr.
Harleigh won't be equal to the walk home."

More than equal to twenty such walks !"
answered Angus, gaily. ' You under estimate the
severity of the training to which I have submitted
myself during the last three weeks."

*The pony-carriage may as well meet you in
any case," said Mrs. TregonelL And the order was
straightway given.

They started at ten o'clock, giving themselves
ample leisure for a walk of something over two
miles  a walk by hill and valley, and rushing
stream, and picturesque wooden bridge  through a
deep gorge where the dark-red cattle were grouped

against a background of gorse and heather 
a walk of which one could never grow weary 
so lonely, so beautiful, so perfect a blending of all
that is wildest and all that is most gracious in
Nature  an Alpine ramble on a small scale.

Minster Church lies in a hollow of the hill, so
shut in by the wooded ridge which shelters its
grey walls, that the stranger comes upon it as an
architectural surprise.

 How is it you have never managed to finish
your tower T' asked IMr. Harleigh, surveying the
rustic fane with a critical air as he descended to
the churchyard by some rugged stone steps on the
side of the grassy hill. " You cannot be a particularly
devout people, or you would hardly have
allowed your parish church to remain in this
stunted and stinted conditions

"There was a tower once/ said Christabel,
naively ; " the stones are still in the churchyard ;
but the monks used to burn a light in the tower
window  a light that shone through a cleft in the
hills, and was seen far out at sea."

I believe that is geographically  or gcomctri-

LOVE ! THOU ART LEADING ME

call impossible," said Angus laughing ; " but pray
go on''

*The light as often mistaken for a beacon and
the ships came ashore and were wrecked on the
rocks."

Naturally  and no doubt the monks improved
the occasion. "Why should a Cornish monk be
better than his countrymen ? sone and alF is your
motto."

They were not Cornish monks answered
Christabel;, " but a brotherhood of French monks
from the monastery of St. Sergius, at Angers.
They were established in a Priory here by William
de Bottreaux, in the reign of Richards Coeur de
Lion ; and according to tradition , the townspeople
resented their having built the church so far from
the town. I feel sure the monks could have had
no evil intention in burning a light; but one
night a crew of wild sailors attacked the tower
and pulled the greater part of it down."

And nobody in Boscastle has had public spirit
enough to get it set up again. Where is your respect
for those early Christian martyrs, St. Sergius

and St. Bacchus, to whose memory your temple is
dedicated V

I don't suppose it was so much want of respect
for the martyrs as want of moneys suggested Miss
Bridgeman. " We have too many chapel people
in Boscastle for our churches to be enriched or
beautified. But Minster is not a bad little church
after all.

' It is the dearest, sweetest, most innocent little
church I ever knelt in," answered Angus ; " and if
I could but assist at one particular service there ''

He checked himself with a sigh ; but this unfinished
speech amounted in Miss Bridgeman's
mind to a declaration. She stole a look at
Christabel, whose fair face crimsoned for a moment
or so, only to grow more purely pale afterwards.

They went into the church, and joined devoutly
in the brief Saint's Day service. The congregation
was not numerous. Two or three village goodies 
the school children  a tourist, who had come to seethe
church, and found himself, as it were, entangled in
saintly meshes  the lady who played the harmonium,
and the incumbent who read prayers. These were

all, besides the party from Mount Royal. There
are plenty of people in country parishes who will
be as pious as you please on Sunday, deeming
three services not too much for their devotion, but
who can hardly be persuaded to turn out of the
beaten track of week-day life to offer homage to the
memory of Evangelist or Apostle.

The pony-carriage was waiting in the lane when
Mr. Harleigh and the two ladies came out of the
porch. Christabel and the gentleman looked at
the equipage doubtfully.

 You slandered me, Miss Bridgeman, by your
suggestion that I should be done up after a mile or
so across the hills said Mr. Harleigh ; " I never
felt fresher in my life. Have you a hankering for
the ribbons 1" to Christabel ; " or will you send
your pony back to his stable and walk home T'

''1 would ever so much rather walker"*

"And so would 1,'

'' In that case, if you don't mind, I think I'll go
home with Felix said Jessie Bridgeman, most
unexpectedly. " I am not feeling quite myself today,
and the walk has tired me. You won't mind

going home alone with Mr. Harleigh , will yon,
Christabel? You might show him the seals in
Pentargon Bay."

What could Christabel do ? If there had been
anything in the way of an earthquake handy, she
would have felt deeply grateful for a sudden rift in
the surface of the soil,, which would have allowed her
to slip into the bosom of the hills, among the gnomes
and the pixies. That Cornish coast was undermined
with caverns, yet there was not one for her
to drop into. Again, Jessie Bridgeman spoke in
such an easy off-hand manner, as if it were the most
natural thing in the world for Christabel and Mr.
Harleigh to be allowed a lonely ramble. To have
refused, or even hesitated, would have seemed
affectation, mock-modesty, self-consciousness. Yet
Christabel almost involuntarily made a step towards
the carriage.

* I think I had better drive," she said ; ' Aunt
Diana will be wanting me."

' No, she won't," replied Jessie, resolutely. 'sand
you shall not make a martyr of yourself for my
sake. I know you love that walk over the hill,

and Mr. Harleigh is dying to see Pentargon
Bay "

Positively expiring by inches ; only it is one of
those easy deaths that does not hurt one very
much'' said Angus, helping Miss Bridgeman into
her seats giving her the reins, and arranging the rug
over her knees with absolute tenderness.

Take care of Felix pleaded Christabel ; " and
if you trot down the hills trot fasts'

I shall walk him every inch of the way. The
responsibility would be too terrible otherwise."

But Felix had his own mind in the matter, and
had no intention of walking when the way he went
carried him towards his stable. So he trotted
briskly up the lane, between tall, tangled blackberry
hedges, leaving Christabel and Angus standing at
the churchyard gate. The rest of the little congregation
had dispersed; the church door had been
locked ; there was a grave digger at work in the
garden-like churchyard, amidst long grasses and
fallen leaves, and the unchanged ferns and mosses
of the bygone summer.

Mr. Harleigh had scarcely concealed his delight

at Miss Bridgemans departure, yet , now that lie was
gone, he looked passing sad. Never a word did he
speak, as they two stood idly at the gate, listening
to the dull thud of the earth which the gravedigger
threw out of his shovel on to the grass, and the
shrill sweet song of a robin, piping to himself on a
ragged thornbush near at hand, as if in an ecstasy
of gladness about things in general. One sound so
fraught with melancholy, the other so full of joy !
The contrast struck sharply on ChristabePs nerves,
to-day at their utmost tension, and brought sudden
tears in her eyes.

They stocfd for perhaps five minutes in this
dreamy silence, the robin piping all the while ; and
then Mr Harleigh roused himself, seemingly with
an effort.

Are you going to show me the seals at
Pentagon'' he asked, smilingly.

I don't know about seals  there is a local idea
that seals are to be seen playing about iu the bay ;
but one is not often so lucky as to find them there.
People have been very cruel in killing them, and Im
afraid there are very few seals left on our coast now."

Viii. I. I

 At any rate,, you can show me Pentagon if you
are not tired

Tired V cried Christabel, laughing at such a
ridiculous idea, being a damsel to whom ten miles
were less than three to a town-bred young lady.
Embarrassed though she felt by being left alone
with Mr. Harleigh, she could not even pretend that
the proposed walk was too much for her.

I shall be very glad to take you to Pentagon'
she said,  it is hardly a mile out of our way ; but I
fear you'll be disappointed ; there is really nothing
particular to see.

' I shall not be disappointed  I shal be deeply
grateful."

They walked along the narrow hill-side paths,
where it was almost impossible for two to walk
abreast ; yet Angus contrived somehow to be at
Christabers side, guiding and guarding her by ways
which were so much more familiar to her than to
him, that there was a touch of humour in this pretence
of protection. But Christabel did not see things
in their humorous aspect to-day. Her little hand
trembled as it touched Angus HamleigVs, when

lie led her across a craggy bit of path, or over a
tiny water-pool. At the stiles in the valley on the
other side of the bridge, which are civilized stiles,
and by no means difficult, Christabel was too quick
and light of foot to give any opportunity for that
assistance which her companion was so eager to
afford. And now they were in the depths of the
valley, and had to mount another hill, on the road
to Bute, till they came to a field gate, above which
appeared a sign-board, and the mystic words,
To Pentargon."

What is Pentargon, that they put up its name
in such big letters T' asked Mr. Harleigh, staring at
the board. " Is it a borough town  or a cattle
market  or a cathedral city  or what ? They seem
tremendously proud of it."

"It is nothing  or only a shallow bay, with a
waterfall and a wonderful cave, which I am always
longing to explore. I believe it is nearly as beautiful
as the cavern in Shelley's  Alastor. But you
will see what Pentargon is like in less than five
minutes'

They crossed a ploughed field, and then, by a big

I 2

five-barred gate, entered the magic region which
was said to be the paradise of seals. A narrow
"walk cut in a steep and rocky bank, where the
gorse and heather grew luxuriantly above slate and
spar, described a shallow semicircle round one of the
loveliest bays in the world  a spot so exquisitely
tranquil in this calm autumn weather, so guarded
and fenced in by the massive headlands that jutted
out towards the main  a peaceful haven, seemingly
so remote from that outer world to which belonged
yonder white winged ship on the verge of the blue
that Angus Harleigh exclaimed involuntarily, 

' Here is peace ! Surely this must be a bay
in that Lotus land which Tennyson has painted for
usP

Hitherto their conversation had been desultory-mere
fragmentary talk about the landscape and the
loveliness of the autumn day, with its clear bright
sky and soft west wind. They had been always in
motion, and there had been a certain adventurousness
in the way that seemed to give occupation to
their thoughts. But now Mr. Harleigh came to
a dead stop, and stood looking at the rugged amphitheatres

and the low weedy rocks washed smooth by
the sea.

Would you mind sitting down for a few
minutes V he asked ; " this Pentargon of yours is a
lovely spot,, and I don't want to leave it instantly.
I have a very slow appreciation of Nature. It
takes me a long time to grasp her beauties."

Christabel seated herself on the bank which
he had selected for her accommodation, and Mr.
Harleigh placed himself a little lower, almost at
her feet, her face turned seaward, his half towards
her, as if that lily face, with its wild rose bloom,
were even lovelier than the sunlit ocean in all its
variety of colour.

' It is a delicious spot," said Angus, "I wonder
whether Tristan and Iseult ever came here ! I can
fancy the queen stealing away from the Court and
Court foolery, and walking across the sunlit hills
with her lover. It would be rather a long walk,
and there might be a difficulty about getting back
in time for supper ; but one can picture them
wandering by flowery fields, or by the cliffs above
that everlasting sea, and coming here to rest and

talk of their sorrow and their love. Can you not
fancy her as Matthew Arnold paints her ? 

Let her have her youth again 
Let her be as she was then !
Let her have her proud dark eyes,
And her petulant, quick replies :
Let her sweep her dazzling hand,
With its gesture of command,
And shake back her raven hair
With the old imperious air.

I have an idea that the Hibernian Isenlt must

have been a tartar, though Matthew Arnold glosses

over her peccadilloes so pleasantly. I wonder

whether she had a strong brogue, and a sneaking

fondness for usquebaugh''

Please, don't make a joke of her' pleaded
Christabel ; ' she is very real to me. I see her asa
lovely lady  tall and royal-looking, dressed in
long robes of flowered silk, fringed with gold. And
Tristan ''

What of Tristan? Is his image as clear in
your mind? How do you depict the doomed
knight, born to suffer and to sin, destined to sorrow
from the time of his forest-birth  motherless, beset
with enemies, consumed by hopeless passion. I
hope you feel sorry for Tristan V

Who could help being sorry for him T'

'' Albeit he was a sinner ? I assure you, in the
old romance which you have not read  which you
would hardly care to read  neither Tristan nor
Iseult are spotless

"J. have never thought of their wrong-doing.
Their fate was so sad, and they loved each other
so truly

again, you can believe, perhaps  you who
are so innocent and confiding  that a man who has
sinned may forsake the old evil ways and lead a good
life, until every stain of that bygone sin is purified.
You can believe, as the Greeks believed, in atonement
and purification''

I believe, as I hope all Christians do, that
repentance can wash away sins'

' Even the accusing memory of wrong-doing,
and make a manes soul white and fair again ? That
is a beautiful creeds

I think the Gospel gives us warrant for believing
as much  not as some of the Dissenters teach, that
one effort of faith, an hour of prayer and ejaculation,
can transform a murderer into a saint ; but

that earnest sustained regret for wrong-doing, and
a steady determination to live a better life '

Yes  that is real repentance' exclaimed
Angus, interrupting her.  Common sense, even
without Gospel light, tells one that it must be
good. Christabel  may I call you Christabel ? 
just for this one isolated half-hour of life  here in
Pentargon Bay ? You shall be Miss Courtenay
directly we leave this spot''

Call me what you please. I don't think it matters
very much," faltered Christabel, blushing deeply.

But it makes all the difference to me. Chris-abel,
I can't tell you how sweet it is to me just to
pronounce your name. If  if  I could call you
by that name always, or by a name still nearer
and dearer. But you must judge. Give me half-an-hour
 half-an-hour of heartfelt earnest truth on
my side, and pitying patience on yours. Chris-abel,
my past life has not been what a stainless
Christian would call a good life. I have not
been so bad as Tristan. I have violated no
sacred charge  betrayed no kinsman. I suppose
I have been hardly worse than the common run of

young men, who have the means of leading an
utterly useless life. I have lived selfishly, unthinkingly
 caring for my own pleasure  with little
thought of anything that was to come afterwards,
either on earth or in heaven. But all that is past
and done with. My wild oats are sown ; I have
had enough of youth and folly. When I came to
Cornwall the other day I thought that I was on
the threshold of middle age, and that middle age
could give me nothing but a few years of pain
and weariness. But  behold a miracle !  you have
given me back my youth  youth and hope, and a
desire for length of days, and a passionate yearning
to lead a new, bright, stainless life. You have done
all this, Christabel. I love you as I never thought
it possible to love ! I believe in you as I never before
believed in woman  and yet  and yet '

He paused, with a long heartbroken sigh, clasped
the girls hand, which had been straying idly
among the faded heather, and pressed it to his
lips.

'rand yet I dare not ask you to be my wife.
Shall I tell you why V

Yes tell me/ lie faltered, her cheeks deadly
pale, her lowered eyelids heavy with tears.

' I told you I was like Achilles, doomed to an
early death. You remember with what pathetic
tenderness Thetis speaks of her son,

Few years are thine, and not a lengthened term ;
At once to early death and sorrows doomed
Beyond the lot of man !'

The Fates have spoken about me quite as

plainly as ever the sea-nymph foretold the

doom of her son. He was given the choice of

length of days or glory, and he deemed fame

better than long life. But my life has been as

inglorious as it must be brief. Three months ago,

one of the wisest of physicians pronounced my

doom. The hereditary malady which for the last

fifty years has been the curse of my family shows

itself by the clearest indications in my case. I

could have told the doctor this just as well as he

told me ; but it is best to have official information.

I may die before I am a year older; I may crawl

on for the next ten years  a fragile hot-house plant,

sent to winter under southern skies. 

"And you may recover, and be strong and well

again \" cried Christabel in a voice choked with
sobs. She made no pretence of hiding her pity or
her love. " Who can tell ? God is so good. What
prayer "will He not grant ns if we only believe in
Him ? Faith will remove mount ains.

I have never seen it done," said Angus. " Vm
afraid that no effort of faith in this degenerate age
will give a man a new lung. Nos Christabel there is
no chance of long life for me. If hope  if love
could give length of days my new hopes born of
you  my new love felt for you , might work that
miracle. But I am the child of my century : I only
believe in the possible. And knowing that my years
are so few and that during that poor remnant of
life I may be a chronic invalid, how can I  how
dare I be so selfish as to ask any girl  young,
fresh, and bright, with all the joys of life untasted
to be the companion of my decline ? The better
she loved me, the sadder would be her life  the
keener would be the anguish of watching my decay V'

But it would be a life spent with you, her days
would be devoted to you ; if she really loved you,
she would not hesitate," pursued Christabel, her

hands clasped passionately, tears streaming down
her pale cheeks, for this moment to her was the
supreme crisis of fate. " She would be unhappy,
but there would be sweetness even in her sorrow if
she could believe that she was a comfort to you '/''

Christabel, don't tempt me ! Ah, my darling !
you don't know how selfish a man's love is, how
sweet it would be to me to snatch such bliss, even
on the brink of the dark gulf  on the threshold of
the eternal night, the eternal silence ! Consider what
you would take upon yourself  you who perhaps
have never known what sickness means  have never
seen the horrors of mortal disease."

' Yes, I have sat with some of our poor people
when they were dying. I have seen how painful
disease is, how cruel Nature seems, and how hard
it is for a poor creature racked with pain to believe
in God's beneficence ; but even then there has been
comfort in being able to help them and cheer them
a little. I have thought more of that than of the
actual misery of the scene."

But to give all your young life  all your days
and thoughts and hopes to a doomed man ! Think

of that Christabel ! When you are happy with
him to see Death grinning behind his shoulder  to
watch that spectacle which is of all Nature's
miseries the most awful  the slow decay of human
life  a man dying by inches  not deaths but dissolution
! If my malady were heart-disease, and
you knew that at some moment  undreamt of  
unlooked for  death would come swift as an arrow
from Hecate's bow, brief, with no loathsome or
revolting detail  then I might say,  Let us spend
my remnant of life together But consumption,
you cannot tell what a painful ending that is I
Poets and novelists have described it as a kind of
euthanasia ; but the poetical mind is rarely strong
in scientific knowledge. I want you to understand
all the horror of a life spent with a chronic
sufferer, about whom the cleverest physician in
London has made up his mind''

"Answer me one questions said Christabel,
drying her tears, and trying to steady her voice.
Would your life be any happier if we were
together  till the ende'

Happier ? It would be a life spent in Paradise.

Pain and sickness could hardly touch me with their
sting."

Then let me be your wife's

Christabel are you in earnest ? have you considered
?"

I consider nothing, except that it may be in
my power to make your life a little happier than it
would be without me. I want only to be sure of
that. If the doom were more dreadful than it is 
if there were but a few short months of life left for
you I would ask you to let me share them; I
would ask to nurse you and watch you in sickness.
There would be no other fate on earth so full of
sweetness for me. Yes , even with death and everlasting
mourning waiting for me at the end.''''

My Christabel, my beloved ! my angel, my comforter
! I begin to believe in miracles. I almost
feel as if you could give me length of years, as well
as bliss beyond all thought or hope of mine.
Christabel, Christabel, God forgive me if I am
asking you to wed sorrow; but you have made
this hour of my life an unspeakable ecstasy. Yet
I will not take you quite at your word, love. You

shall have time to consider what you are going todo
 time to talk to your aunt."

"1 want no time for consideration. I will be
guided by no one. I think God meant me to love
you  and cure you."

I will believe anything you say ; yes even if
you promise me a new lung. God bless you my
beloved ! You belong to those whom He does everlastingly
bless, who are so angelic upon this earth
that they teach us to believe in heaven. My
Christabel, my own ! I promised to call you Miss
Courtenay when we left Pentargon, but I suppose
now you are to be Christabel for the rest of my
life !"

Yes, always."

"And all this time we have not seen a single
seal," exclaimed Angus, gaily.

His delicate features were radiant with happiness.
Who could at such a moment remember death and
doom? All painful words which need be said had
been spoken.

CHAPTER V.

<i

the silver answer rang , ' not death, but

love "

Mrs. Tregonell and her niece were alone together
in the library half-an-hour before afternoon
tea, when the autumn light was just beginning to
fade, and the autumn mist to rise ghostlike from
the narrow little harbour of Boscastle. Miss
Bridgeman had contrived that it should be so, just
as she had contrived the visit to the seals that
morning.

So Christabel, kneeling by her aunts chair in the
fire-glow, just as she had knelt upon the night before
Mr. HamleigVs coming, with faltering lips confessed
her secret.

My dearest, I have known it for ever so longs
answered Mrs. Tregonell, gravely laying her slender
hand, sparkling with hereditary rings  never so
gorgeous as the gems bought yesterday  on the

girls sunny hair. '' I cannot say that I am
glad. No, Christabel, I am selfish enough to be
sorry, for Leonardoss sake, that this should have
happened. It was the dream of my life that you
two should marry .

* Dear aunt, we could never have cared for each
other  as lovers. We had been too much like
brother and sisters

' Not too much for Leonard to love you, as I know
he does. He was too confident  too secure of his
power to win you. And I, his mother, have brought
a rival here  a rival who has stolen your love from
my son"*

Don't speak of him bitterly, dearest. Remember
he is the son of the man you loved. ''

' But not my son ! Leonard must always be first
in my mind. I like Angus Harleigh. He is all that
his father was  yes  it is almost a painful likeness
painful to me, who loved and mourned his
father. But I cannot help being sorry for
Leonard."

Leonard shall be my dear brother, always, said
Christabel; yet even while she spoke it occurred to

VOL. I. K

lier that Leonard was not quite the kind of person
10 accept the fraternal position pleasantly or, indeed,
any secondary character whatever in the drama of life.

'' And when are you to be married ?'' asked Mrs.
Tregonell, looking at the fire.

Oh Auntie, do you suppose 1 have begun to
think of that yet awhile V

"Be sure that he has, if you have not 1 I hope he
is not going to be in a hurry. You were only
nineteen last birthday.

1 feel tremendously old," said Christabel. "We
we were talking a little about the future, this
afternoon, in the billiard-room, and Angus talked
about the wedding being at the beginning of the
new year. But I told him I was sure you would
not like that."

No, indeed ! I must have time to get reconciled
to my loss," answered the dowager, with her arm
drawn caressingly round ChristabeFs head, as the
girl leaned against her aunt's chair. "What will this
house seem to me without my daughter ? Leonard
far away, putting his life in peril for some foolish
sport, and you living  Heaven knows where; for you

would have to study your husband's taste, not mine,,
in the matters

Why shouldn't we live near you ? Mr. harleigh
might buy a place. There is generally something
to be had if one watches ones opportunities

Do you think he would care to sink his fortune,
or any part of it, in a Cornish estate, or to live
amidst these wild hills ?''

He says he adores this place. 

' He is in love, and would swear as much of a
worse place. No, Belle, I am not foolish enough
to suppose that you and Mr. Harleigh are to settle
for life at the end of the world. This house shall
1)6 your home whenever you choose to occupy it ;
and I hope you will come and stay with me sometimes,
for I shall be very lonely without you.'

'dear Auntie, you know how I love you; you
know how completely happy I have been with you 
how impossible it is that anything can ever lessen
my loves

'' I believe that, dear girl ; but it is rarely nowadays
that Ruth follows Naomi. Our modern lluths
go where their lovers go, and worship the same gods,

k2

But I don't want to be selfish or unjust dear. I
will try to rejoice in your happiness. And if Angus
Harleigh will only be a little patient ; if he will
give me time to grow used to the loss of you, he
shall have you with your adopted mother's blessing'"
' He shall not have me without it" said Christabel,
looking up at her aunt with steadfast eyes.

She had said no word of that early doom of which
Angus had told her. For worlds she could not have
revealed that fatal truth. She had tried to put
away every thought of it while she talked with her
aunt. Angus had urged her beforehand to be perfectly
frank,, to tell Mrs. Tregonell what a mere wreck
of a life it was which her lover offered her: but she
had refused.

Let that be our secret" she said, in her low
sweet voice. ' We want no ones pity. We will
bear our sorrow together. And, oh, Angus! my
faith is so strong. God who has made me so happy
by the gift of your love will not take you from me.
If  if your life is to be brief, mine will not belong."


My dearest! if the gods will it so we will know

no parting, but be translated into some new kind
of life together  a modern Baucis and Philemon. I
think it would be wiser  better to tell your aunt
everything. But if you think otherwise "

I will tell her nothing, except that you love
me, and that, with her consent, I am going to be
your wife ; and with this determination Christabel
had made her confession to her aunt.

The ice once broken, everybody reconciled herself
or himself to the new aspect of affairs at Mount
Royal. In less than a week it seemed the most
natural thing in life that Angus and Christabel
should be engaged. There was no marked change
in their mode of life. They rambled upon the hills,
and went boating on fine mornings, exploring
that wonderful coast Adhere the sea-birds congregate,
on rocky isles and fortresses rising sheer out of the
sea  in mighty caves, the very tradition whereof
sounds terrible  caves that seem to have no ending,
but to burrow into unknown, unexplored regions,
towards the earths centre.

With Major Bree for their skipper, and a brace
of sturdy boatmen, Angus, Christabel, and Jessie

Bridgeman spent several mild October mornings on
the sea  now towards Cambeak, anon towards
Trebarwith. Tintagel from the beach was infinite] y
grander than Tintagel in its landward aspect.
Here" as Norton says, was  that rocky and
winding way np the steep sea-cliff, under which the
sea-waves wallow, and so assail the foundation of
the isle, as may astonish an unstable brain to
consider the peril, for the least slip of the foot leads
the whole body into the devouring sea."

To climb these perilous paths, to spring from rock
to rock upon the slippery beach, landing on some long
green slimy slab over which the sea washes, was
Christabers delight  and Mr. Harleigh showed
no lack of agility or daring. His health had improved
marvellously in that invigorating air. Chris-abel,
hateful of every change of hue in the
beloved face, saw how much more healthy a tinge
cheek and brow had taken since Mr. Harleigh
came to Mount Royal. He had no longer the
exhausted look or the languid air of a man who
had untimely squandered his stock of life and
health. His eye had brightened  with no hectic

lignite but with the clear sunshine of a mind at ease.
He "was altered in every way for the better.

And now the autumn evenings were putting on a
wintry air  the lights were twinkling early in the
Alpine street of Boscastle. The little harbour was
dark at five o'clock. Mr. Harleigh had been
nearly two months at Mount Koyal, and he told
himself that it was time for leave-taking. Fain
would he have stayed on  stayed until that blissful
morning when Christabel and he might kneel, side
by side;, before the altar in Minster Church, and be
made one for ever  one in life and death  in a
union as perfect as that which was symbolized hj
the plant that grew out of Tristan tomb and went
down into the grave of his mistress.

Unhappily, Mrs. Tregonell had made up her
mind that her niece should not be married until she
was twenty years of age  and Christabels twentieth
birthday would not arrive till the following Midsummer.
To a lover's impatience so long an
interval seemed an eternity; but Mrs. Tregonell had
been very gracious in her consent to his betrothal,
so lie could not disobey her.

Christabel lias seen so little of the world'' said
the dowager. " I should like to give her one season
in London before she marries  just to rub off a
little of the rusticity''

She is perfect  I would not have her changed
for worlds protested Angus.

Nor I. But she ought to know a little more
of society before she has to enter it as your wife.
I don't think a London season will spoil her 
and it will please me to chaperon her  though I
have no doubt I shall seem rather an old-fashioned
chaperon

That is just possible said Angus smiling ashe
thought how closely his divinity was guarded.
The chaperons of the present day are very easygoing
people  or, perhaps I ought to say, that the
young ladies of the present day have a certain
Yankee go-a-headishness which very much lightens
the chaperon responsibility. In point of fact, the
London chaperon has dwindled into a formula, and
no doubt she will soon be improved off the face of
society's

So much the worse for society's' answered the

lady of the old school. And then she continued,
with a friendly air, 

I dare say you know that I have a house in
Bolton E/OW. I have not lived in it since my
husbands death  but it is mine, and I can have it
made comfortable between this and the early spring.
I have been thinking that it would be better for you
and Christabel to be married in London. The law
business would be easier settled  and you may
have relations and friends who would like to be at
your wedding, yet who would hardly care to come
to Boscastle.''

''It is a long way," admitted Angus. "And
people are so inconsistent. They think nothing of
going to the Engadine, yet grumble consumedly at
a journey of a dozen hours in their native land  as
if England were not worth the exertion"'

Then I think we are agreed that London is the
best place for the wedding'' said Mrs. Tregonell.

I am perfectly content. But if you suggested
Timbuctoo I should be just as happy'"

This being settled, Mrs. Tregonell wrote at once
to her agent, with instructions to set the old house

in Bolton Row in order for the season immediately
after Easter and Christabel and her lover had to
reconcile their minds to the idea of a long dreary
winter of severance.

Miss Courteney had grown curiously grave and
thoughtful since her engagement  a change whicli
Jessie who w watched her closely observed with some
surprise. It seemed as if she had passed from girlhood
into womanhood in the hour in which she pledged
herself to Angus Harleigh. She had for ever done
with the thoughtless gaiety of youth that knows
not care. She had taken upon herself the burden
of an anxious, self-sacrificing love. To no one had
she spoken of her lo verb's precarious hold upon life;
but the thought of by how frail a tenure she held
her happiness was ever present with her. " How can
I be good enough to him ?  how can I do enough to
make his life happy '}" she though t , 'when it may befor
so short a times

With this ever-present consciousness of a fatal
future, went the desire to make her lover forget his
doom, and the ardent hope that the sentence might
be revoked  that the doom pronounced by human

judgment might yet be reversed. Indeed Angus
had himself begun to make light of his malady.
Who could tell that the famous physician was nota
false prophet after all ? The same dire announcement
of untimely death had been made to Leigh
Hunt who contrived somehow  not always in the
smoothest waters  to steer his frail bark into the
haven of old age. Angus spoke of this hopefully,
to Christabel, as they loitered within the roofless
crumbling walls of the ancient oratory above St.
Nectans Sieves one sunny November morning,
Miss Bridgeman rambling on the crest of the hill,
with the black sheep-dog, Randie, under the polite
fiction of blackberry hunting, among hedges which
had long been shorn of their last berry, though the
freshness of the lichens and ferns still lingered in
this sheltered nook.

Yes, I know that cruel doctor was mistaken V
said Christabel, her lips quivering a little, her eyes
wide and grave, but tearless, as they gazed at her
lover. " I know it, I know it V

'' I know that I am twice as strong and well as
I was when he saw me," answered Angus ; '' you

have worked as great a miracle for me as ever was
wrought at the grave of St. Mertheriana in Minster
Churchyard. You have made me happy and
what can cure a man better than perfect bliss. But,
oh, my darling! what is to become of me when I
leave you, when I return to the beaten ways of
London life, and looking back at these delicious
days, ask myself if this sweet life with you is not
some dream which I have dreamed, and which can
never come again ?''

You will not think anything of the kinds" said
Christabel with a pretty little air of authority which
charmed him  as all her looks and ways charmed
him. *' You know that I am sober reality, and that
sour lives are to be spent together. And you are
not going back to London  at least not to stop
there. You are going to the South of France. '''

' Indeed ? this is the first I have heard of any
such intentions''

Did not that doctor say you were to winter in
the South ? ''

He did. But I thought we had agreed to
-despise that doctor?"

' We will despise him, yet be warned by him. Why
should any one, who has liberty and plenty of money,
spend his winter in a smoky city, where the fog
blinds and stifles him, and the frost pinches him,
and the damp makes him miserable, when he can
have blue skies, and sunshine and flowers, and ever
so much brighter stars, a few hundred miles away?
We are bound to obey each other, are we not,
Angus ? Is not that among our marriage vows?''

' I believe there is something about obedience 
on the lady's side  but I waive that technicality.
I am prepared to become an awful example of a
henpecked husband. If you say I am to go
southward, with the swallows, I will go  yea,,
verily, to Algeria or Tunis, if you insist : though I
would rather be on the Riviera, whence a telegram,
with the single word 'Come' would bring me to
your side in forty-eight horse's

Yes, you will go to that lovely land on the
shores of the Mediterranean, and there you will be
very careful of your health, so that when we meet
in London, after Easter, your every look will gainsay
that pitiless doctor. Will you do this, for my sake.

Angus ? she pleaded,, lovingly, nestling at his side,
as they stood together on a narrow path that won d
down to the entrance of the Sieve. They could
hear the rush of the waterfall in the deep green
hollow below them, and the faint flutter of loosely
hanging leaves, stirred lightly by the light wind,
and far away the joyous bark of a sheep-dog. No
human voices, save their own, disturbed the
autumnal stillness.

This, and much more, would I do to please you,
love. Indeed, if I am not to be here, I might
just as well be in the South ; nay, much better
than in London, or Paris, both of which cities I
know by heart. But don't you think we could
make a compromise, and that I might spend the
winter at Torquay, running over to Mount Royal
for a few days occasionally ?"

"No ; Torquay will not do, delightful as it would
be to have you so near. I have been reading about
the climate in the South of France, and I am sure,
if you are careful, a winter there will do you worlds
of good. Next year 

Next year we can go there together, and you

will take care of me. Was that what you were
going to say Belle?"

'' Something like that."

' Yes," he said, slowly, after a thoughtful pause,
"I shall be glad to be away from London, and all old
associations. Isis past life is a worthless husk that
I have done with for ever."

CHAPTER YL

IX SOCIETY.

The Easter recess \i'as over. Society had returned
from its brief holiday  its glimpse of budding
hedges and primrose dotted banks blue skies and
blue violets the snowy bloom of orchards, the
tender green of young cornfields. Society had
come back again, and was hard at the London
treadmill  yawning at old operas, and damning new
plays  sniggering at crowded soirees  laying down
the law , each man his particular branch thereof
at carefully planned dinner parties  quarrelling
and making friends again  eating and drinking 
spending and wasting, and pretending to care very
little about anything; for society is as salt that has
lost its savour if it is not cynical and affected.

But there was one debutante at least that season
for whom town pleasures had lost none of their
freshness for whom the old operas were all melody.

and the new plays all wit  who admired everything
with frankest wonder and enthusiasm and without
a thought of Horace or Pope, or Breech, or anybody,
except the lover who was always at her side,
and who shed the rose-coloured light of happiness
upon the commonest things. To sit in the
Green Park on a mild April morning, to see the
guard turn out by St. Rameses Palace after breakfast,
to loiter away an hour or two at a picture
gallery  was to be infinitely happy. Neither
opera nor play, dinner nor dance, race-course nor
flower-show, was needed to complete the sum of
Christabel's bliss when Angus Harleigh was with
her.

He had returned from Haeres, quietest among
the southern towns, wonderfully improved in health
and strength. Even Mrs. Tregonell and Miss
Bridgeman perceived the change in him.

I think you must have been very ill when you
came to Mount Royal, Mr. Harleigh' said Jessie,
one day. " You look so much better now.

* My life was empty then  it is full now," he
answered. " It is hope that keeps a man alive,

VOL. I. L

and I had very little to hope for when I went
westward. How strange the road of life is, and
how little a man knows what is waiting for him
round the corner'

The house in Bolton Row was charming ; just
large enough to be convenient, just small enough
to be snug. At the back, the windows looked into
Lord Somebody's garden  not quite a tropical
paradise  nay, even somewhat flavoured with bricks
and mortar  but still a garden, where, by sedulous
art, the gardeners kept alive ferns and flowers, and
where trees, warranted to resist smoke, put forth
young leaves in the spring-time, and only languished
and sickened in untimely decay when the London
season was over, and their function as fashionable
trees had been fulfilled.

The house was furnished in a Georgian style,
pleasant to modern taste. The drawing-room was of
the spindle-legged order  satin-wood card tables ;
groups of miniatures in oval frames; Japanese
folding screen, behind which Belinda might have
played Bo-peep; china jars, at whose fall Narcissus
might have inly suffered, while outwardly serene.

The dining-room was sombre and substantial. The
bedrooms had been improved by modern upholstery ;
for the sleeping apartments of our ancestors leave
a good deal to be desired All the windows were
full of flowers  inside and out there was the
perfume and colour of many blossoms. The three
drawing-rooms, growing smaller to a diminishing
point, like a practical lesson in perspective, were
altogether charming.

Major Bree had escorted the ladies to London,
and was their constant guest, camping out in a
bachelor lodging in Jermyn Street, and coming across
Piccadilly every day to eat his luncheon in Bolton
Row, and to discuss the evenings engagements.

Long as he had been away from London, he
acclimatized himself very quickly  found out everything
about everybody  what singers were best
worth hearing  what plays best worth seeing  what
actors should be praised  which pictures should be
looked at and talked about  what horses were
likely to win the notable races. He was a walking
guide, a living hand-book to fashionable London.

All Mrs. Tregoneirs old friends all the

Cornish people who came to London  called in
Bolton Row ; and at every house where the lady and
her niece visited there were new introductions,
whereby the widows visiting list widened like
a circle in the water  and cards for dances and
evening parties, afternoons and dinners were superabundant.
Christabel wanted to see everything.
She had quite a country girl's taste, and cared much
more for the theatre and the opera than to be dressed
in a new gown, and to be crushed in a crowd of
other young women in new gowns  or to sit still
and be admired at a stately dinner. Nor was she
particularly interested in the leaders of fashion
their ways and manners  the newest professed or
professional beauty  the last social scandal. She
wanted to see the great city of which she had read
in history  the Tower, the Savoy, Westminster
Hall, the Abbey, St. Paul's, the Temple  the
London of Elizabeth, the still older London of the
Edwards and Henries, the house in which Milton
was born, the organ on which he played, the place
where Shakespeare's Theatre once stood, the old
Inn whence Chaucer's Pilgrims started on their

journey. Even Dickens London  the London of
Pickwick and Winkle  the Saracens Head at
which Mr. S queers put up  had charms for her.

Is everything gone V she asked piteously, after
being told how improvement had effaced the brick
and mortar background of English History.

Yet there still remained enough to fill her mind
with solemn thoughts of the past. She spent long
hours in the Abbey, with Angus and Jessie looking
at the monuments, and recalling the lives and deeds
of long vanished heroes and statesmen. The
Tower, and the old Inns of Court, were full of
interest. Her curiosity about old houses and streets
was insatiable.

"No one less than Macaulay could satisfy you/
said Angus, one day, when his memory was at
fault. "A man of infinite reading, and infallible
memory's

But you have read so much, and you remember
a great deal''

They had been prowling about the Whitehall
end of the town in the bright early morning,
before Fashion had begun to stir herself faintly

among her down pillows. Christabel loved the
parks and streets while the freshness of sunrise
was still upon them  and these early walks were
an institution.

Where is the Decoy ?' she asked Angus one
day, in St. James's Park ; and on being interrogated,
it appeared that she meant a certain piece of water,,
described in " Several of the Peak." All this part
of London was peopled with Scott's heroes and
heroines, or with suggestions of Goldsmith. Here
Fenella danced before good-natured, loose-living
Rowley. Here Niger stood aside, amidst the crowd,
to see Charles, Prince of Wales, and his ill-fated
favourite, Buckingham, go by. Here the Citizen
of the World met Beau Gibbs and the gentleman
in black. For Christabel, the Park was like a
scene in a stage play.

Then, after breakfast, there were long drives into
fair suburban haunts, where they escaped in some
degree from London smoke and London restraints
of all kinds, where they could charter a boat, and
row up the river to a still fairer scene, and picnic in
some rushy creek, out of ken of society, and be

almost as recklessly gay as if they had been at
Tintagel.

These were the days Angus loved best. The
days upon which he and his betrothed turned their
backs upon London society, and seemed as far away
from the outside world as ever they had been upon
the wild western coast. Like most men educated
at Eton and Oxford, and brought up in the
neighbourhood of the metropolis, Angus loved the
Thames with a love that was almost a passion.

"rit is my native country's he said ; " I have no
other. All the pleasantness associations of my boyhood
and youth are interwoven with the river.
Ashen I die, my spirit ought to haunt these shores,
like that ghost of the  Scholar Gipsy which you
have read about in Arnold's poems

He knew every bend and reach of the river 
every tributary, creek, and eyot  almost every row
of pollard willows, standing stunted and grim along
the bank, like a line of rugged old men. He knew
where the lilies grew, and Adhere there were chances
of trout. The haunts of monster pike were
familiar to him  indeed, he declared that he knew

many of these gentlemen personally  that they
were as old as the Fontainebleau carp, and bore a
charmed life.

''When I was at Eton I knew them all by
sights he said.  There was one which I set my
heart upon landing, but he was ever so much
stronger and cleverer than I. If I had caught
him I should have worn his skin ever after, in the
pride of my heart  like Hercules with his lion.
But he still inhabits the same creek, still sulks
among the same rushes, and devours the gentler
members of the finny race by shoals. We christened
him Dr. Parr, for we knew he was preternaturally
old, and we thought he must, from mere
force of association, be a profound scholar .

Mr. Harleigh was always finding reasons for
these country excursions, which he declared were
the one sovereign antidote for the poisoned atmosphere
of crowded rooms, and the evil effects of
late hours.

You wouldn't like to see Christabel fade and
languish like the flowers in your drawing-rooms
he urged, when Mrs. Tregonell wanted her niece to

make a round of London visits,, instead of going
down to Maidenhead on the coach to hmch somewhere
up the river. Not at Kindles  or at any
other hotel  but in the lazy sultry quiet of some sequestered
nook below the hanging woods of Clieveden.
Fm sure you can spare her just for to-day  such
a perfect spring day. It would be a crime to
waste such sunlight and such balmy air in town
drawing-rooms. Could not you strain a point,,
dear Mrs. Tregonell and come with us V

Aunt Diana shook her head. No, the fatigue
would be too much  she had lived such a quiet life
at Mount Royal, that a very little exertion tired her.
Besides she had some calls to make; and then there
was a dinner at Lady Bulteel's, to which she must
take Christabel, and an evening party afterwards.

Christabel shrugged her shoulders impatiently.

' I am beginning to hate parties," she said
They are amusing enough when one is in them 
but they are all alike  and it would be so much
nicer for us to live our own lives, and go wherever
Angus likes. Don't you think you might defer
the calls, and come with us to-day, Auntie dear?"

Auntie dear shook her head.

seven if I were equal to the fatigue Belle I
couldn't defer my visits. Thursday is Lady Onslows
day  and Mrs. Trevannions day  and Mrs. Vansittart
day  and when people have been so wonderfully
kind to us, it would ''be uncivil not to
calls

"And you will sit in stifling drawing-rooms,
with the curtains lowered to shut out the sunlight
and you will drink ever so much more tea than is
good for you  and hear a lot of people prosing
about the same things over and over again  Epsom
and the Opera  and Mrs. This and Miss That
and Mrs. Somebody's new book which everybody
reads and talks about, just as if there were
not another book in the world, or as if the old
book counted for nothings concluded Christabel,
contemptuously, having by this time discovered
the conventional quality of kettle-drum conversations,
wherein people discourse authoritatively about
books they have not read, plays they have not seen,
and people they do not know.

Mr. Harleigh had his own way, and carried off

Ohristabel and Miss Bridgeman to the White Horse
Cellar, with the faithful Major in attendance.

'' You will bring Belle home in time to dress for
Lady BulteeFs dinners said Mrs. Tregonell; impressively
as they were departing. ' Mind, Major, I
hold you responsible for her return. You are the
only sober person in the party. I believe Jessie
Bridgeman is as wild as a hawk, when she gets out
of my sights"*

Jessicass shrewd grey eyes twinkled at the reproof.

I am not very sorry to get away from Bolton
Eow and the fine ladies who come to see you
and who always look at me as much as to say,
Who is she ?  what is she ?  how did she come
heres  and who are obviously surprised if I say
anything intelligent  first, at my audacity in speaking
before company, and next that such a thing as
I should have any brains''

Nonsense, Jessie, how thin-skinned you are ;
everybody praises you, said Mrs. Tregonell, while
they all waited on the threshold for Christabel to
fasten her eight-button gloves  a delicate operation,
in which she was assisted by Mr. Harleigh.

'' How clever you are at buttoning gloves' exclaimed
Christabel ; " one would think you had
served an apprenticeship."

 That's not the first pair he has buttoned,, Til
wager' cried the Major in his loud, hearty voice ;
and then, seeing Angus redden ever so slightly, and
remembering certain rumours which he had heard
at his club, the kindly bachelor regretted his
speech.

Happily, Christabel was engaged at this moment
in kissing her aunt, and did not observe Mr.
Harleigh's heightened colour. Ten minutes later
they were all seated outside the coach, bowling down
Piccadilly Hill on their way westward.

In the good pld days this is how you would
have started for Cornwall," said Angus.

I wish we were going to Cornwall now''

 So do I, if your aunt would let us be married
at that dear little church in the glen. Christabel,
when I die, if you have the ordering of my funeral,
be sure that I am buried in Minster Churchyard."

' Angus, don't," murmured Christabel, piteously.

Dearest, ' we must all die  'tis an inevitable

chance  the first Statute in Magna Charta  it is an
everlasting Act of Parliament  that's what he says
of death, dear, who jested at all things, and laid his
cap and bells down one day in a lodging in Bond
Street  the end of which we passed just now 
sad and lonely, and perhaps longing for the
kindred whom he had forsaken

You mean Sternest said Christabel. ' Jessie and
I hunted for that house, yesterday. I think we all
feel sorrier for him than for many a better mans

In the early afternoon they had reached their
destination  a lovely creek shaded by chestnut and
alder  a spot known to few, and rarely visited.
Here, under green leaves, they moored their boat, and
lunched on the contents of a basket which had been
got ready for them at Skindle's  dawdling over the
meal  taking their ease  full of talk and laughter.
Never had Angus looked better, or talked more
gaily. Jessie, too, was at her brightest, and had a
great deal to say.

It is wonderful how well you two get on' said
Christabel, smiling at her friend's prompt capping
of some bitter little speech from Angus. '' You

always seem to understand each other so quickly 
indeed Jessie seems to know what Angus is going
to say before the words are spoken. I can see it
in her faces''

' Perhaps, that is because we are both cynics
said Mr. Harleigh.

' Yes that is no doubt the reasons said Jessie
reddening a little ; " the bond of sympathy between
us is founded on our very poor opinion of our
fellow-creature's

But after this Miss Bridgeman became more
silent, and gave way much less than usual to those
sudden impulses of sharp speech which Christabel
had noticed.

They landed presently, and went wandering away
into the inland  a strange world to Christabel,
albeit very familiar to her lover.

' Not far from here there is a dell which is the
most wonderful place in the world for bluebells'
said Angus, looking at his watch. " I wonder
whether we should have time to walk there's

' Let us try, if it is not very, very fares' urged
Christabel.  I adore bluebells, and skylarks, and

the cuckoo, and all the dear country flowers and
birds. I have been surfeited with hot-house flowers
and caged canaries since I came to London. 

A skylark was singing in the deep blue, far aloft,
over the little wood in which they were wandering.
It was the loneliest, loveliest spot ; and Christabel
felt as if it would be agony to leave it. She and
her lover seemed ever so much nearer, dearer, more
entirely united here than in London drawing-rooms,
where she hardly dared to be civil to him lest
society should be amused or contemptuous. Here
she could cling to his arm  it seemed a strong
and helpful arm now  and look up at his face with
love irradiating her own countenance, and feel no
more ashamed than Eve in the Garden. Here they
could talk without fear of being heard ; for Jessie
and the Major followed at a most respectful
distance  just keeping the lovers in view, and no
more.

Christabel ran back presently to say they were
going to look for bluebells.

You'll come, won't you ?'' she pleaded ; " Angus
says the dell is not far off."

I don't believe a bit in his topography said
the Major ; " do you happen to know that it is three
o'clock, and that you are due at a State dinner?"

 At eight' cried Christabel,,  ages away.
Angus says the train goes at six. We are to have
some tea at Skindle's, at five. We have two hours
in which to do what we like''

"There is the row back to Skindle's."

* Sa half an hour for that, which gives us
ninety minutes for the bluebells."

Do you count life by minutes, child?" asked
the Major.

Yes, Uncle Oliver, when I am utterly happy;
for then every minute is precious."

And then she and her lover went rambling on,
talking, laughing, poising under the flickering
shadows and glancing lights ; while the other two
followed at a leisurely pace, like the dull foot of
reality following the winged heel of romance.
Jessie Bridgeman was only twenty-seven, yet in her
own mind it seemed as if she were the Major's
contemporary  nay, indeed, his senior; for he had
never known that grinding poverty which ages the

eldest daughter in a large shabby genteel family.
Jessie Bridgeman had been old in care before she
left off pinafores. Her childish pleasure in the
shabbiest of dolls had been poisoned by a precocious
familiarity with poor-rates, and water-rates  a
sickening dread of the shabby man in pepper-and-salt
tweed, with the end of an oblong account-book
protruding from his breast-pocket, dio came to
collect money that was never ready for him , and
departed, leaving a printed notice, like the trail of
the serpent; behind him. The first twenty years of
Jessie Bridgeman's life had been steeped in poverty,
every day, every hour flavoured with the bitter taste
of deprivation and the works contempt, the want of
common comforts, the natural longing for fairer
surroundings, the ever-jusent dread of a still
lower deep in which pinching should become starvation,
and even the shabby home should be no longer
tenable. With a father whose mission upon this
earth was to docket and file a certain class of
accounts in Somerset House, for a salary of a
hundrcd-and-eiglity pounds a year, and a bi-annual
rise of five, a harmless man, whose only crime was

VOL. 1. M

to have married young and made himself responsible
for an unanticipated family  ' How could a young
fellow of two-and-twenty know that God was going
to afflict him with ten children ?" Mr. Bridgeman
used to observe plaintively  with a mother whose
life was one long domestic drudgery who spent
more of her days in a back kitchen than is consistent
with the maintenance of personal dignity, and
whose only chance of an airing was that stern
necessity which impelled her to go and interview
the tax-gatherer, in the hope of obtaining '' time'' 
Jessie's opportunities of tasting the pleasures of
youth had been of the rarest. Once in six months
or so, perhaps, a shabby-genteel friend gave her
father an order for some theatre which was in that
palpable stage of ruin when orders are freely given
to the tavern loafer and the stage-door hanger-on
and then, oh, what rapture to trudge from Shepherd's
Bush to the West End, and to spend a long
hot evening in the gassy paradise of the Upper
Boxes I Once in a year or so Mr. Bridgeman gave
his wife and eldest girl a dinner at an Italian
Restaurant near Leicester Square  a cheap little

pinch dinner in which the meagre modicum of
meat and poultry was eked ont by much sauce,
redolent of garlic, by delicious foreign bread, and
too-odorous foreign cheese. It was a tradition in the
family that Mr. Bridgeman had been a great dinner-giver
in his bachelor days, and knew every restaurant
in London.

"They don't forget me here, you sees'' he said,
when the sleek Italian waiter brought him extra
knives and forks for the dual portion which Alas to
serve for three.

Such had been the utmost limit of Jessicass
pleasures before she answered an advertisement in
the Times, which stated that a lady, living in a
retired part of Cornwall, required the services of a
young lady who could write a good hand, keep
accounts, and had some knowledge of housekeeping
who was willing, active, cheerful, and good-tempered.
Salary, thirty pounds per annum.

It was not the first advertisement by many that
Jessie had answered. Indeed, she seemed, to her
own mind, to have been doing nothing but
answering advertisements, and hoping against hope

for a favourable reply, since lier eighteenth birthday,
when it had been borne in upon her, as the
Evangelicals say, that she ought to go out into the
world, and do something for her living, making one
mouth less to be filled from the family bread-pan.

*' There's no use talking, mother"' she said, when
Mrs. Bridgeman tried to prove that the bright
useful eldest daughter cost nothing ; " I eat, and
food costs money. I have a dreadfully healthy
appetite,, and if I could get a decent situation I
should cost you nothing, and should be able to
send you half my salary. And now that Silly is
getting a big girl "

She hasn't an idea of making herself useful''
sighed the mother ; " only yesterday she let the
milkman ring three times and then march away
without leaving us a drop of milk because she was
too proud or too lazy to open the door, while
Sarah and I were up to our eyes in the washed''

Perhaps she didn't hear him/ suggested Jessie,
charitably.

She must have heard his pails if she didn't hear
him/ said Mrs. Bridgeman; Mjesides he 'looped

for I heard him and relied upon that idle child for
taking in the milk. But put not your trust in
princes concluded the overworked matron, rather
vaguely.

Salary,, thirty pounds per annum," repeated
Jessie, reading the Cornish lady's advertisement
over and over again, as if it had been a charm;
why that would be a perfect fortune ; think what
you could do with an extra fifteen pounds a year V'

"Mj dear, it would make my life heaven. But
you would want all the money for your dress : you
would have to be always nice. There' would be
dinner parties, no doubt, and you would be asked to
come into the drawing-room of an evening," said
Mrs. Bridgeman, whose ideas of the governess's
social status were derived solely from " Jane Eyre."

Jessie's reply to the advertisement was straightforward
and succinct, and she wrote a fine bold
hand. These two facts favourably impressed Mrs.
Tregonell, and of the three or four dozen answers
which her advertisement brought forth, Jessie's
pleased her the most. The young lady's references
to her father's landlord and the incumbent of the

nearest church, were satisfactory. So one bleak
wintry morning Miss Bridgeman left Haddington in
one of the Great Western almost luxurious third-class
carriages; and travelled straight to Launceston
whence a carriage  the very first private carriage
she had ever sat in and every detail of which was
a wonder and a delight to her  conveyed her to
Mount Royal.

That fine old Tudor manor-houses after the
shabby ten-roomed villa at Shepherds Bush 
badly built , badly drained badly situated, badly
furnished, always smelling of yesterday's dinner,,
always damp and oozy with yesterday's rain  was
almost too beautiful to be real. For days after
her arrival Jessie felt as if she must be walking
about in a dream. The elegancies and luxuries of
life were all new to her. The perfect quiet and
order of this country home ; the beauty in every
detail  from the old silver urn and Worcester
china which greeted her eyes on the breakfast-table,
to the quaint little Queen Anne candlestick which
she carried up to her bedroom at night  seemed like
a revelation of a hitherto unknown world. The face

of Nature  the hills and the moors  the sea and
the cliffs  was as new to her as all that indoor
luxury. An occasional week at Ramsgate or South-end
had been all her previous experience of this
world's loveliness. Happily,, she was not a shy or
awkward young person. She accommodated herself
with wonderful ease to her altered surroundings  was
not tempted to drink out of a iinger-glass and did
not waver for a moment as to the proper use of her
fish-knife and fork  took no wine  and ate moderately
of that luxurious and plentiful fare which was
as new and wonderful to her as if she had 'been transported
from the barren larder of Shepherds Bush
to that fabulous land where the roasted palings ran
about with knives and forks in their backs, squeaking,
in pig language,, " Come, cat me ; come eat me.''''

Often in this paradise of pasties and clotted
cream mountain mutton and barn-door fowls, she
thought with a bitter pang of the hungry circle at
home, with whom dinner was the exception rather
than the rule, and who made believe to think tea
and bloaters an ever so much cosier meal than a
formal repast of roast and boiled.

On the very clay she drew her first quarter's
salary  not for worlds would she have anticipated
it by an hour  Jessie ran off to a farm she knew
of, and ordered a monster hamper to be sent to
Grossly Villa, Shepherd's Bush  a hamper full of
chickens, and goose, and cream, and butter, with a
big saffron-flavoured cake for its crowning glory 
such a cake as would delight the younger members
of the household !

Nor did she forget her promise to send the overtasked
house-mother half her earnings. " You
needn't mind taking the money, dearest," she wrote
in the letter which enclosed the Post-Office order.
Mrs. Tregonell has given me a lovely grey silk
gown ; and I have bought a brown merino at
Launceston, and a new hat and jacket. You would
stare to see how splendidly your homely little
Jessie is dressed! Christabel found out the date of
my birthday, and gave me a dozen of the loveliest
gloves, my favourite grey, v/ith four buttons. A
whole dozen ! Did you ever see a dozen of gloves all
at once, mother ? You have no idea how lovely they
look. I quite shrink from breaking into the packet ;

but I must wear a pair at church next Sunday in
compliment to the dear little giver. If it were not
for thoughts of you and the broody dearest, I
should be intensely happy here ! The house is an
ideal house  the people are ideal people ; and they
treat me ever so much better than I deserve. I
think I have the knack of being useful to them,
which is a great comfort ; and I am able to get on
with the servants  old servants who had a great deal
too much of their own way before I came  which is
also a comfort. It is not easy to introduce reform
without making oneself detested. Christabel, who
has been steeping herself in French history lately,
calls me Turgot in petticoats  by which you will see
she has a high opinion of my ministerial talents  if
you can remember Turgot, poor dear! amidst all your
worries' added Jessie, bethinking herself that her
mother's book-learning had gone to seed in an
atmosphere of petty domestic cares  mending 
washing  pinching  contriving.

This and much more had Jessie Bridgeman written
seven years ago, while Mount Royal was still new to
her. The place and the people  at least those two

whom lie first knew there  had grown dearer as time
went on. When Leonard came home from the university
he and his mother's factotum did not get on
quite so well as Mrs. Tregonell had hoped. Jessie
was ready to be kind and obliging to the heir of
the house ; but Leonard did not like her  in the
language of the servants hall, he 'put his back up
at her"" He looked upon her as an interloper and
a spy especially suspecting her in the latter capacity,
perhaps from a lurking consciousness that some of
his actions would not bear the fierce light of
unfriendly observation. In vain did his mother
plead for her favourite.

' You have no idea how good she is !" said Mrs.
Tregonell.

You're perfectly right there, mother : I have
not'' retorted Leonard.

'' And so useful to me ! I should be lost without
her V'

' Of course ; that's exactly what she wants :
creeping and crawling  and pinching and saving 
docking your tradesmen's accounts  grinding your
servants  fingering your income  till, by-and-by,

she will contrive to finger a good deal of it into her
own pocket ! That's the way they all begin  that's
the way the man in the play Sir Giles Overreach's
man, began, you may be sure  till by-and-by he
got Sir Giles under his thumb. And that's the
way Miss Bridgeman will serve you. I wonder
you are so short-sighted !"

Weak as Mrs. Tregonell was in her love for her
son, she was too staunch to be set against a person
she liked by any such assertions as these. She was
quite able to form her own opinion about Miss
Bridgeman's character, and she found the girl
straight as an arrow  candid almost to insolence,
yet pleasant withal ; industrious, clever  sharp as a
needle in all domestic details  able to manage
pounds as carefully as she had managed pence and
sixpences.

"Mother used to give me the housekeeping purse,"
she said, '' and I did what I liked. I was always
Chancellor of the Exchequer. It was a very small
exchequer; but I learnt the habit of spending and
managing, and keeping accounts."

While active and busy about domestic affairs.

verifying accounts, settling supplies and expenditures
with the cook-housekeeper , making herself a veritable
clerk of the kitchen and overlooking the
housemaids in the finer details of their work, Miss
Bridgeman still found ample leisure for the improvement
of her mind. In a quiet country-house,, where
family prayers are read at eight o'clock every
morning, the days are long enough for all things.
Jessie had no active share in Cliristabel''s education,
which eras Mrs. TregonelFs delight and care; but she
contrived to learn what Christabel learnt  to study
with her and read with her, and often to outrun her
in the pursuit of a favourite subject. They learnt
German together, they read good French books together,
and were companions in the best sense of the
word. It was a happy life  monotonous, uneventful,
but a placid, busy, all satisfying life, which Jessie
Bridgeman led during those six years and a half
which went before the advent of Angus Harleigh at
Mount Royal. The companion's salary had long
ago been doubled, and Jessie, who had no caprices,
and whose wants were modest, was able to send forty
pounds a year to Shepherd's Bush, and found a rich

reward in the increased cheerfulness of the letters
from home.

Just so much for Jessie Bridgemans history as
she walks by Major Bree's side in the sunlight,
with a sharply cut face, impressed with a gravity
beyond her years, and marked with precocious lines
that were drawn there by the iron hand of poverty
before she had emerged from girlhood. Of late,
even amidst the elegant luxuries of May Fair, in a
life given over to amusement, among flowers and
bright scenery, and music and pictures, those lines
had been growing deeper  lines that hinted at a
secret care.

"Isn't it delightful to see them together!" said
the Major, looking after those happy lovers with a
benevolent smile.

Yes ; I suppose it is very beautiful to see such
perfect happiness, like Juan and Haidee before
Libro swooped down upon them," returned Miss
Bridgeman, who was too outspoken to be ashamed
of having read Byron's epic.

Major Bree had old-fashioned notions about the
books women should and should not read, and Byron,

except for elegant extracts, was in his Index expurga-
tories. If a woman was allowed to read the " Giaour,''
she would inevitably read '' Don Juan/ he argued ;
there would be no restraining her , after she had
tasted blood  no use in offering her another poet and
saying, Now you can read "Thalaba/ or '' Peter Bell."

They were so happy \'' said Jessie dreamily, " so
young, and one so innocent ; and then came fear,
severance, despair, and death for the innocent sinner.
It is a terrible story V

Fortunately, there is no tyrannical father in this
cases' replied the cheerful Major. " Everybody is
pleased with the engagement  everything smilesupon
the lovers."

' No, it is all sunshine," said Jessie; " there is no
shadow, if  if Mr. Harleigh is as worthy of his
betrothed as we have all agreed to think him. Yet
there was a time when you spoke rather disparagingly
of him."

 My gossiping old tongue should be cut out for
repeating club scandals ! Harleigh is a generous-hearted,
noble-natured fellow, and I am not afraid
to trust him with the fate of a girl whom I love

almost as well as if lie were my own daughter. I
const know whether all men love their daughters,
by-the-by. There are daughters and daughters  I
have seen some that it would be tough work to love.
But for Christabel my affection is really parental.
I have seen her bud and blossom, a beautiful living
flower, a rose in the garden of life's

And you think Mr. Harleigh is worthy of her ?'
said Miss Bridgeman, looking at him searchingly
with her shrewd grey eyes, ' in spite of what you
heard at the clubs ?''

' Amico for what I heard at the clubs!" exclaimed
the 3.Iajor, blowing the slander away from the tips
of his fingers as if it had been thistledown. " Every
man has a past, and every man outlives it. The
present and the future are what we have to consider.
It is not a manes history, but the man himself,
that concerns us; and I say that Angus Harleigh
is a good man, a right-meaning man, a brave and
generous man. If a man is to be judged by his
history, where would David be, I should like to
know? and yet David was the chosen of the Lord V
added the Major, conclusively.

 I liope/ said Jessie, earnestly, with vague
visions of intrigue and murder conjured up in her
mind, " that Mr. Harleigh was never as bad as
David's

No, no, murmured the Major, '' the circumstances
of modern times are so different, don't you
see ?  an advanced civilization  a greater respect for
human life. Napoleon the First did a good many
queer things ; but you would not get a monarch and
a commander-in-chief to act as David and Joab
acted now-a-days. Public opinion would be too
strong for them. They would be afraid of the 


* Was it anything very dreadful that you heard
at the clubs three years ago?" asked Jessie, still
hovering about a forbidden theme, with a morbid
curiosity strange in one whose acts and thoughts
were for the most part ruled by common sense.

The Major, who would not allow a woman to
read 'Don Juan," had his own ideas of what ought
and ought not to be told to a woman.

My dear Miss Bridgeman," he said, ' I would
not for worlds pollute your ears with the ribald

trash men talk in a club smoking-room. Let it
suffice for you to know that I believe in Angus
Harleigh, although I have taken the trouble to
make myself acquainted with the follies of his
youth''

They walked on in silence for a little while after
this, and then the Major said, in a voice full of
kindness :

"I think you went to see your own people
yesterday, did yon not ?''

' Yes ; Mrs. Tregonell was kind enough to give
me a morning, and I spent it with my mother and
sisters

Major had questioned her more than once
about her home, in a way which indicated so kindly
an interest that it could not possibly be mistaken
for idle curiosity. And she had told him, with
perfect frankness, what manner of people her family
were  in no wise hesitating to admit their narrow
means, and the necessity that she should earn her
own living.

I hope you found them well and happy''

I thought my mother looked thin and weary

VOL. I N

The girls were wonderfully well  great hearty , overgrown
creatures ! I felt myself a wretched little
shrimp among them. As for happiness  well, they
are as happy as people can expect to be who are
very poor V

' Do you really think poverty is incompatible
with happiness ? asked the I\Iajoi% with a philosophical
air ; ' I have had a particularly happy life,
and I have never been riches'

' Ahj that makes all the difference V exclaimed
Jessie. " You have never been rich, but they have
always been poor. You canst conceive what a gulf
lies between those two positions. You have been
obliged to deny yourself a great many of the mere
idle luxuries of life, I dare say  hunters, the latest
improvements in guns, valuable dogs, continental
travelling; but you have had enough for all the
needful things  for neatness, cleanliness, an orderly
household; a well-kept flower-garden, everything
spotless and bright about you ; no slipshod maid-of-all-work
printing her greasy thumb upon your
dishes  nothing out at elbows. Your house is
small, but of its kind it is perfection; and your

garden  well, if I had such a garden in such a
situation I would not envy Eve the Eden she
lost.

Is that really your opinion ?" cried the enraptured
soldier; 'or are you saying this just to please
me  to reconcile me to my jog-trot life, my modest
surroundings ?'

'1 mean every word I say."

Then it is in your power to make me richer in
happiness than Rothschild or Baring. Dearest Miss
Bridgeman, dearest Jessie, I think you must know
how devotedly I love you ! Till to-day I have not
dared to speak, for my limited means would not
have allowed me to maintain a wife as the woman I
love ought to be maintained; but this morning-post
brought me the news of the death of an old
Admiral of the Blue, who was my father's first
cousin. He was a bachelor like myself  left the
Navy soon after the signing of Sir Henry Porringer's
treaty at Nankin in 42  never considered himself
well enough off to marry, but lived in a lodging
at Davenport, and hoarded and hoarded and
hoarded for the mere abstract pleasure of acumen

2

hating his surplus income; and the result of his
hoarding  combined with a little dodging of his
investments in stocks and shares  is, that he leaves
me a solid four hundred a year in Great Westerns.
It is not much from some peoples point of view,
but, added to my existing income, it makes me very
comfortable. I could afford to indulge all your
simple wishes, my dearest ! I could afford to help
your family !"

He took her hand. She did not draw it away,
but pressed his gently, with the grasp of friendship.


Don't say one word more  you are too good 
you are the best and kindest man I have ever
known V* she said, " and I shall love and honour
you all my life ; but I shall never marry ! I made
up my mind about that, oh ! ever so long ago.
Indeed, I never expected to be asked, if the truth
must be told.'-'

I understand' said the Major, terribly dashed.
' I am too old. Don't suppose that I have not
thought about that. I have. But I fancied the
difficulty might be got over. You are so different

from the common run of girls  so staid, so sensible,
of such a contented disposition. But I was a fool
to suppose that any girl of "

Seven-and-twenty/ interrupted Jessie : " it is a
long way up the hill of girlhood. I shall soon be
going down on the other sides

* At any rate you are more than twenty years
my junior. I was a fool to forget that.

Dear Major Breeds said Jessie, very earnestly,
'believe me, it is not for that reason, I say No. If
you were as young  as young as Mr. Harleigh  the
answer would be just the same. I shall never
marry. There is no one, prince or peasant, whom I
care to marry. You are much too good a man to
be married for the sake of a happy home, for
status in the world, kindly companionship  all of
which you could give me. If I loved you as you
ought to be loved I would answer proudly, Yes; but
I honour you too much to give you half loves

Perhaps you do not know with how little I
could be satisfied' urged the Major, opposing what
he imagined to be a romantic scruple with the
shrewd common-sense of his fifty years' experience.

I want a friend, a companion, a helpmate, and
I am sure you could be all those to me. If 1
could only make you happy !'

'you could not! interrupted Jessie, with cruel
decisiveness. 'pray, never speak of this again, dear
Major Bree. Your friendship has been very pleasant
to me ; it has been one of the many charms of my
life at Mount Royal. I would not lose it for the
world. And we can always be friends, if you will
only remember that I have made up my mind 
irrevocably  never to marry"'

I must needs obey you, said the Major, deeply
disappointed, but too unselfish to be angry. " I will
not be importunate. Yet one word I must say. Your
future  if you do not marry  what is that to be?
Of course, so long as Mrs. Tregonell lives, your home
will be at Mount Royal  but I fear that does not
settle the question for long. My dear friend does
not appear to me a long-lived woman. I have seen
traces of premature decay. When Christabel is
married, and Mrs. Tregonell is dead, where is your
home to improvidence

will find me one, answered Jessie,

cheerfully.  Providence is wonderfully kind to
plain little spinsters with a knack of making themselves
useful. I have been doing my best to
educate myself ever since I have been at Mount
Royal. It is so easy to improve one's mind when
there are no daily worries about the tax-gatherer
and the milkman  and when I am called upon to
seek a new home,, I can go out as a governess
and drink the cup of life as it is mixed for
governesses  as Charlotte Bronze says. Perhaps I
shall write a novel, as she did, although I have not
her genius .

I would not be sure of that's said the Major.
'I believe there is some kind of internal fire burning
you up, although you are outwardly so quiet. I
think it would have been your salvation to accept the
jog-trot life and peaceful home I have offered you.'''

ff Very likely," replied Jessie, with a shrug and
a sigh. "But how many people reject salvation.
They would rather be miserable in their own way
than happy in anybody else's way''

The Major answered never a word. For him all
the glory of the day had faded. He walked slowly on

by Jessicass side, meditating upon her words  wondering
why she had so resolutely refused him. There
had been not the least wavering  she had not even
seemed to be taken by surprise  her mind had been
made up long ago  not him, nor any other man,
would she wed.

Some early disappointment, perhaps"* mused
the Major  '2. curate at Shepherds Bush  those
young men have a great deal to answer for.

They came to the hyacinth dell  an earthly
paradise to the two happy lovers, who were sitting
on a mossy bank, in a sheet of azure bloom, which,
seen from the distance, athwart young trees,
looked like blue, bright water.

To the Major the hazel copse and the bluebells 
the young oak plantation  and all the lovely
details of mosses and flowering grasses, and starry
anemones  were odious. He felt in a hurry to get
back to his club, and steep himself in London
pleasures. All the benevolence seemed to have
been crushed out of him.

Christabel saw that her old friend was out of
spirits, and contrived to be by his side on their way

back to the boat, trying to cheer him with sweetest
words and loveliest smiles.

"Have we tired you?" she asked. "The afternoon
is very warm."

Tired me ! You forget how I ramble over the
hills at home. No ; I am just a trifle put out  but
it is nothing. I had news of a death this morning 
a death that makes me richer by four hundred a
year. If it were not for respect for my dead cousin
who so kindly made me his heir , I think I should
go to-night to the most rowdy theatre in London,
just to put myself in spirits."

Which are the rowdy theatres, Uncle Oliver?"

Well, perhaps I ought not to use such a word.
The theatres are all good in their way  but there
are theatres and theatres. I should choose one of
those to which the young men go night after night
to see the same piece  a burlesque, or an opera
bouffe  plenty of smart jokes and pretty girls. '

Why have you not taken ms to those
theatres ?"

We have not come to them yet. You have
seen Shakespeare and modern comedy  which is

rather a weak material as compared with Sheridan
or even with Coleman and Morton, whose plays
were our staple entertainment when I was a boy.
You have heard all the opera singers ?"

' Yes, you have been very good. But I want to see
Cupid and Psyche  two of my partners last night
talked to me of  Cupid and Psyche and were
astounded that I had not seen it. I felt quite
ashamed of my ignorance. I asked one of my
partners, who was particularly enthusiastic, to tell
me all about the play  and he did  to the best of
his ability, which was not great  and he said that
a Miss Mayne  Stella Mayne  who plays Psyche, is
simply adorable. She is the loveliest woman in
London, he says  and was greatly surprised that
she had not been pointed out to me in the Park.
Now really. Uncle Oliver, this is very remiss in you
you who are so clever in showing me famous
people when we are driving in the Parke"'

My dear, we have not happened to see her 
that is all,''-' replied the Major, without any
responsive smile at the bright young face smiling
up at him.

You have seen lier I suppose ?'

Yes, I saw her when I was last in London."

'' Not this time ?'

Not this time'

You most unenthusiastic person. But, I understand
your motive. You have been Awaiting an
opportunity to take Jessie and me to see this divine
Psyche. Is she absolutely lovely ?"

'loveliness is a matter of opinion. She is
generally accepted as a particularly pretty woman."

When will you take me to see her ?"

I have no idea. You have so many engagements
 your aunt is always making new ones. I
can do nothing without her permission. Surely
you like dancing better than sitting in a theatre ?"

"No, I do not. Dancing is delightful enough  but
to be in a theatre is to be in fairy-land. It is like
going into a new world. I leave myself, and my
own life, at the doors  and go to live and love and
suffer and be glad with the people in the play. To
see a powerful play  really well acted  such acting
as we have seen  is to live a new life from end to
end in a few hours. It is like getting the essence

of a lifetime without any of the actual pain  for
when the situation is too terrible, one can pinch
oneself and say  it is only a dream  an acted
dreams

If you like powerful plays  plays that make
you tremble and cry  you would not care twopence
for  Cupid and Psyche " said Major Bree. " It is
something between a burlesque and a fairy comedy
a most frivolous kind of entertainment I
believes

I don't care how frivolous it is. I have set
my heart upon seeing it. I don't want to be out of
the fashion. If you won't get me a box at the
where is it ?"

The Kaleidoscope Theatre."

At the Kaleidoscope ! I shall ask Angus."

Please don't. I  I shall be seriously offended
if you do. Let me arrange the business with your
aunt. If you really want to see the piece I suppose
you must see it  but not unless your aunt likes."

Dear, dearest, kindest uncle Oliver !" cried
Christabel, squeezing his arm. " From my childhood
upwards you have always fostered my self-will by

the blindest indulgence. I was afraid that , all at
once;, you were going to be unkind and thwart me.'

Major Bree was thoughtful and silent for the
rest of the afternoon, and although Jessie tried to
be as sharp spoken and vivacious as usual, the effort
would have been obvious to any two people properly
qualified to observe the actions and expressions of
others. But Angus and Christabel, being completely
absorbed in each other, saw nothing amiss
in their companions.

The river and the landscape were divine  a river
for gods  a wood for nymphs  altogether too
lovely for mortals. Tea, served on a little round
table in the hotel garden, was perfect.

How much nicer than the dinner to-nights'
exclaimed Christabel. " I wish we were not going.
And yet, it will be very pleasant, I daresay  a
table decorated with the loveliest flowers  well-dressed
women, clever men, all talking as if there
was not a care in life  and perhaps we shall be
next each other's added the happy girl, looking at
Angus.

What a comfort for me that I am out of it,

said Jessie. ' How nice to be an insignificant
young woman whom nobody ever dreams of asking
to dinner. A powdered old dowager did actually
hint at my going to her musical evening the other
day when she called in Bolton Row.  Be sure
you come early she said, gushingly, to Mrs.
Tregonell and Christabel; and then, in quite
another key, glancing at me, she added, and  if
Miss  er  er would like to hear my singers I
should be  er  delighted no doubt mentally
adding, 'I hope she won't have the impertinence
to take me at my word.' '

Jessie, you are the most evil-thinking person I
ever knew,'' cried Christabel. " Fm sure Lady
Millions meant to be civilis

Yes, but she did not mean me to go to her
party , retorted Jessie.

The happy days  the society evenings  slipped by
dining  music  dancing. And now came the
brief bright season of rustic entertainments  more
dancing  more music  lawn-tennis  archery 
water parties  every device by which the summer
hours may chime in tune with pleasure. It was

July  Cliristabel's birthday had come and gone,
bringing a necklace of single diamonds and a
basket of June roses from Angus, and the most
perfect thing in Park hacks from Mrs. Tregonell 
but Christabers wedding-day  more fateful than any
birthday except the first  had not yet been fixed 
albeit Mr. Harleigh pressed for a decision upon
this vital point.

* It was to have been at Midsummer'' he said,
one day, when he had been discussing the question
tete-astute with Mrs. Tregonell.

Indeed, Angus, I never said that. I told you
that Christabel would be twenty at Midsummer, and
that I would not consent to the marriage until
after then.-'''

''Precisely, but surely that meant soon after?
I thought we should be married early in July  intime
to start for the Tyrol in golden weather."

I never had any fixed date in my mind,"
answered Mrs. Tregonell, with a pained look.
Struggle with herself as she might, this engagement
of Christabel's was a disappointment and a grief to
her. " I thought my son would have returned

before now. I should not like the wedding to take
place in his absence."

And I should like him to be at the wedding'
said Angus; ' but I think it will be rather hard if
we have to wait for the caprice of a traveller who,
from what Belle tells me of his letters ''

' Has Belle shown you any of his letters?" asked
Mrs. Tregonell, with a vexed look.

No, I don't think he has written to her, has

he?"

No, of course not ; his letters are always
addressed to me. He is a wretched correspondent."

* I was going to say, that, from what Belle tells
me, your son's movements appear most uncertain,
and it really does not seem worth while to wait."

When the wedding-day is fixed, I will send him
a message by the Atlantic cable. We must have
him at the wedding."

Mr. Harleigh did not see the necessity  but he
was too kind to say so. He pressed for a settlement
as to the day  or week  or at least the month
in which his marriage was to take place  and at
last Mrs. Tregonell consented to the beginning of

September. They were all agreed now that the
fittest marriage temple for this particular bride and
bridegroom was the little old church in the heart of
the hills  the church in which Christabel had
worshipped every Sunday morning or afternoon,
ever since she could remember. It was Christabels
own desire to kneel before that familiar altar on
her wedding-day  in the solemn peacefulness of
that loved hill-side, with friendly honest country
faces round her  rather than in the midst of a
fashionable crowd, attended by bridesmaids after
Gainsborough, and page-boys after Vandyke, in an
atmosphere heavy with the scent of Less Bouquet.

Mr. Harleigh had no near relations  and albeit
a whole bevy of cousins and a herd of men from the
clubs would have gladly attended to witness his
excision from the ranks of gilded youth, and to
bid him God-speed on his voyage to the domestic
haven  their presence at the sacrifice would have
given him no pleasure  while, on the other hand,
there was one person resident in London
whose presence would have caused him acute pain.
Thus, each of the lovers pleading for the same

VOL. I. o

favour Mrs. Tregonell had foregone her idea of a
London wedding, and had come to see that it would be
very hard upon all the kindly inhabitants of Forra-
bury and Minster  Boscastle  Trevalga  Bossiney
and Trevena  to deprive them of the pleasurable excitement
to be derived from Christabers wedding.

Early in September, in the golden light of that
lovely time, they were to be quietly married in the
dear old church, and then away to Tyrolean woods
and hills  scenes which, for Christabel, seemed to bethe
chosen background of poetry, legend, and romance,
rather than an actual country, provided with hotels,
and accessible by tourists. Once having consented
to the naming of an exact time, Mrs Tregonell felt
there could be no withdrawal of her word. She
telegraphed to Leonard, who was somewhere in the
E/Ocky Mountains, with a chosen friend, a couple
of English servants and three or four Canadians,
and who, were he so minded, could be home in a
month  and having despatched this message she
felt the last wrench had been endured. Nothing
that could ever come afterwards  save death itself 
could give her sharper pain.

Poor Leonard lie replied ; " it will break his
heart'

In the j-ears that were gone she had so identified
herself with her son's hopes and schemes had so
projected her thoughts into his future  seeing him
in her waking dreams as he would be in the days to
come a model squire , possessed of all his father's
old-fashioned virtues with a great deal of modern
cleverness superadded, a proud and happy husband,
the father of a noble race  she had kept this vision
of the future in her mind so long, had dwelt upon
it so fondly, had coloured, it so brightly, that to
forego it now, to say to herself 'this thing was buta
dream which I dreamed, and it can never be
realized," was like relinquishing a part of her own
life. She was a deeply religious woman, and if
called upon to bear physical pain  to suffer the
agonies of a slow, incurable illness  she would have
suffered with the patience of a Christian martyr,
saying to herself, as brave Dr. Arnold said in the
agony of his sudden fatal malady, 'whom He loveth
He chastened''  but she could not surrender the
day-dream of her life without bitterest repining. In

all her love of Christabel in all her careful education
and moral training of the niece to whom she
had been as a mother there had been this leaven
of selfishness. She had been rearing a wife for her
son  such a wife as would be a man's better angela
guiding, restraining, elevating principle, so
interwoven with his life that he should never know
himself in leading-strings  an influence so gently
exercised that he should never suspect that he was
influenced.

' Leonard has a noble heart and a fine manly
character'' the mother had often told herself; " but
he wants the association of a milder nature than his
own. He is just the kind of man to be guided and
governed by a good wife  a wife who would obey
his lightest wish, and yet rule him always for
goods

had seen how, when Leonard had been disposed
to act unkindly or illiberally by a tenant,
Christabel had been able to persuade him to kindness
or generosity  how, when he had set his
face against going to church, being minded to
devote Sunday morning to the agreeable duty o

cleaning a favourite gun or physicking a favourite
spaniel, or greasing a cherished pair of fishing-boots,
Christabel had taken him there  how she had
softened and toned down his small social discourtesies,
checked his tendency to strong language
and, as it were, expurgated, edited, and amended
him.

And having seen and rejoiced in this state of
things, it was very hard to be told that another
had won the wife she had moulded, after her own
fashion, to be the gladness and glory of her sons
life ; all the harder because it was her own shortsighted
folly which had brought Angus Harleigh
to Mount E/Oyal.

All through that gay London season  for Christ-abel
a time of unclouded sadness  carling care had
been at Mrs. TregonelFs heart. She tried to be
just to the niece whom she dearly loved, and who
had so tenderly and fully repaid her affection.
Yet she could not help feeling as if ChristabeFs
choice was a personal injury  nay, almost treachery
and ingratitude. " She must have known that I
meant her to be my son's wife' she said to herself;

" yet she takes advantage of my jjoor boys
absence and gives herself to the first comers

September is soon enough she said,
pettishly, when Angus pleaded for an earlier date.
 You will not have known Christabel for a year,
even then. Some men love a girl for half a lifetime
before they win her."

But it was not my privilege to know Christabel
at the beginning of my life,-''' replied Angus. " I
made the most of my opportunities by loving her
the moment I saw her.

It is impossible to be angry with you,-' sighed
Mrs. Tregonell. " You are so like your fathers

was one of the worst hardships of the case.
Mrs. Tregonell could not help liking the man who
had thwarted the dearest desire of her heart. She
could not help admiring him, and making comparisons
between him and Leonard  not to the
advantage of her son. Had not her first love been
given to his father  the girls romantic love, ever r,o
much more fervid and intense than any later
passion  the love that sees ideal perfection in a
lover ?

CHAPTER VII.

CUPID AND PSYCHE.

In all the bright June weather Christabel had
been too busy and too happy to remember her
caprice about Cupid and Psyche. But just after
the Henley week  which to some thousands, and to
these two lovers, had been as a dream of bliss  a
magical mixture of sunlight and balmy' airs and
flowery meads, fine gowns and fine luncheons,
nigger singers, stone-breaking athletes, gipsy sorceresses,
eager to read high fortunes on any hand
for half-a-crown, rowing men, racing men, artists,
actors, poets, critics, swells  just after the wild
excitement of that watery saturnalia, Mr. Harleigh
had occasion to go to the north of Scotland to see
an ancient kinswoman of his father  an eccentric
maiden aunt  who had stood for him, by proxy,
at the baptismal font, and at the same time
announced her intention of leaving him her comfortable

fortune, together with all those snuff-mulls,
quails, knives and forks, spoons, and other curiosities
of Caledonia, which had been in the family
for centuries  provided always that he grew up
with a high opinion of Mary Stuart, and religiously
believed the casket letters to be the vile forgeries
of George Buchanan. The old lady, who was a
kindly soul, with a broad Scotch tongue, had an inconvenient
habit of sending for her nephew at odd
times and seasons, when she imagined herself on
the point of death  and he was too kind to turn a
deaf ear to this oft-repeated cry of ' wolf   lest,
after making light of her summons, he should hear
that the real wolf had come and devoured the harmless,
affectionate old lady.

So now, just when London life was at its gayest
and brightest, when the moonlit city after midnight
looked like fairy-land, and the Thames
Embankment, with its long chain of glittering
lamps, gleaming golden above the sapphire river,
was a scene to dream about, Mr. Harleigh had
to order his portmanteau and a hansom, and drive
from the Albany to one of the great railway

stations in the Euston RoacI and to curl himself
up in this corner of the limited mail scarcely to
budge till he was landed at Inverness. It was hard
to leave Christabel, though it were only for a week.
He swore to her that his absence should not
outlast a week unless the grisly wolf called Death
did indeed claim his victim.

"I know I shall find the dear old soul up and
hearty he said, lightly, " devouring Scotch collops,
or haggis, or cock-a-leeky, or something equally
loathsome, and offering me some of that extraordinary
soup which she always talks of in the
plural.  Do have a few more broth, Angus ; they're
very good the day"* But she is a sweet old woman,
despite her barbarities, and one of the happiest days
of my life will be that on which I take you to sec
her.

' And if  if she is not very ill, you weill come
back soon, won't you, Angus, pleaded Christabel.

As soon as ever I can tear myself away from
the collops and the few broth. If I find the dear
old impostor in rude health, as I quite expect, I
will hob and nob with her over one glass of toddy.

sleep one night under her roof, and then across the
Border as fast as the express will carry me/

So they parted; and Angus had scarcely left
Bolton Row an hour , when Major Bree came
in and by some random flight of fancy. Christabel
remembered ' Cupid and Psyche

The three ladies had just come upstairs after
dinner. Mrs. Tregonell was enjoying forty winks
in a low capacious chair near an open window, in
the first drawing-room, softly lit by shaded Carcel
lamps, scented with tea-roses and stephanotis.
Christabel and Jessie were in the tiny third room,
where there was only the faint light of a pair of wax
candles on the mantelpiece. Here the Major found
them, when he came creeping in from the front room,
where he had refrained fromdisturbingMrs.Tregonell.

 Auntie is asleep said Christabel. ' We must
talk in subdued murmurs. She looked sadly tired
after Mrs. Dulcimer garden party's"*

I ought not to have come so early," apologized
the Major.

' Yes you ought ; we are very glad to have you.
It is dreadfully dull without Angus.''''

What ! YOU begin to miss him already ?"

Already !" echoed Christabel. " I missed him
before the sound of his cab wheels was out of the
street. I have been missing him ever since."

Poor little Belle !"

"And he is not half-way to Scotland yet' she
sighed. " How long and slow the hours will be. You
must do all you can to amuse me. I shall want
distractions  dissipation even. If we were at home
I should go and wander up by Willapark, and talk
to the gulls. Here there is nothing to do. Another
stupid garden party at Twickenham tomorrow,
exactly opposite the one to-day at Richmond 
the only variety being that we shall be on the
north bank of the river instead of the south bank 
a prosy dinner in Regent's Park the day after.
Let me see' said Christabel suddenly animated.
We are quite free for tomorrow evening. We can
go and see ' Cupid and Psyche and I can tell Angus
all about it when he comes back. Please get us a
nice see-able box, like a dear obliging Uncle Oliver,
as you arc"

Of course I am obliging' groaned the Major,

' but the most obliging person that ever was can't
perform impossibilities. If you want a box at the
Kaleidoscope you must engage one for tomorrow
month  or tomorrow six weeks. It is a mere
bandbox of a theatre, and everybody in London
wants to see this farrago of nonsense illustrated by
pretty women''

You have seen it, I suppose""

'' YeSj I dropped in one night with an old naval
friend, who had taken a stall for his wife, which
she was not able to occupy."

Major Bree, you are a very selfish person," said
Christabel, straightening her slim waist, and drawing
herself up with mock dignity. " You have seen
this play yourself, and you are artful enough to tellus
it is not worth seeing, just to save yourself the
trouble of hunting for a box. Uncle Oliver, that
is not chivalry. I used to think you were a
chivalrous person."

Is there anything improper in the play ?''
asked Jessie, striking in with her usual bluntness 
never afraid to put her thoughts into speech. " Is
that your reason for not wishing Christabel to see it?"

No, the piece is perfectly correct' stammered
the Major, ' there is not a word "

Then I think Belle's whim ought to be indulged,"
said Jessie ' especially as Mr. Harleigh's
absence makes her feel out of spirits."

The Major murmured something vague about
the difficulty of getting places with less than six
weeks' notice, whereupon Christabel told him, with
a dignified air, that he need not trouble himself
any further.

But a young lady who has plenty of money, and
who has been accustomed, while dutiful and
obedient to her elders, to have her own way in all
essentials, is not so easily satisfied os the guileless
Major supposed. As soon as the West-end shops
were open next morning, before the jewellers had
set out their dazzling wares  those diamond parties
and rivers, which are always inviting the casual
lounger to step in and buy them  those goodly
chased claret jugs, and Queen Anne tea-kettles, and
mighty venison dishes, which seem to say, this is an
age of luxury, and we are indispensable to a gentleman's
table  before those still more attractive shops

which deal in hundred-guinea dressing-cases , jasper
inkstands,, ormolu paper-weights, lapis lazuli 
and coral powder-boxes  had laid
themselves out for the tempter's work  Miss
Courtenay and Miss Bridgeman, in their neat
morning attire, were tripping from library to library,
in quest of a box at the Kaleidoscope for that very
evening.

They found what they wanted in Bond Street.
Lady Somebody had sent back her box by a footman,
just ten minutes ago, on account of Lord
Somebody's attack of gout. The librarian could
have sold it were it fifty boxes, and at a fabulous
price, but he virtuously accepted four guineas, which
gave him a premium of only one guinea for his
trouble and Christabel went home rejoicing.

It will be such fun to show the Major that weare
cleverer than he," she said to Jessie.

Miss Bridgeman was thoughtful, and made no
reply to this remark. She was pondering the
Majors conduct in this small matter, audit seemed
to her that he must have some hidden reason for
wishing Christabel not to see " Cupid and Psyche''

That Le v\'lio had so faithfully waited Ripon all
their fancies taking infinite trouble to give them
pleasure, could in this matter be disobliging or
indifferent seemed hardly possible. There must bea
reason ; and yet what reason could there be to
taboo a piece which the Major distinctly declared
to be correct, and which all the fashionable world
went to see?  Perhaps there is something wrong
with the drainage of the theatres Jessie thought,
speculating vaguely  a suspicion of typhoid fever,
which the Major had shrunk from mentioning, out
of respect for feminine nerves.

' Did you ever tell Mr. Harleigh you wanted to
see ' Cupid and Psyche  ?' asked Miss Bridgeman at
last, sorely exercised in spirit  fearful lest Chris-abel
was incurring some kind of peril by her
persistence.

Yes, I told him ; but it was at a time when we
had a good many engagements, and I think he
forgot all about it. Hardly like Angus, was it, to
forget one's wishes, when he is generally so eager to
anticipate them T

''A strange coincidence \'' thought Jessie. Mr.

Harleigh and the Major had been unanimous in
their neglect of this particular fancy of .


At luncheon Miss Courtenay told her aunt the
">vhole story  how Major Bree had been most disobliging
and how she had circumvented him.

And my revenge will be to make him sit out
Cupid and Psyche for the second time'' she said;,
lightly, ' for he must be our escort. You will go,
of course, dearest, to please me ? "

My pet, you know how the heat of a theatre
always exhausts me \" pleaded Mrs. Tregonell, whose
health, long delicate, had been considerably
damaged by her duties as chaperon. " When you
are going anywhere with Angus, I like to be seen
with you ; but to-night, with the Major and Jessie,
I shall not be wanted. I can enjoy an evenings
rest."

But do you enjoy that long, blank evening,
Auntie ?" asked Christabel, looking anxiously at
her aunt's somewhat careworn face. People who
have one solitary care make so much of it, nurse and
fondle it, as if it were an only child.  Once or

twice when we have let you have your own way and
stay at home you have looked so pale and melancholy
when we came back, as if you had been
brooding upon sad thoughts all the evening."

'' Sad thoughts will come, Belle."

' They ought not to come to you, Auntie. What
cause have you for sadness ?"

I have a dear son far away, Belle  don't you
think that is cause enough ? "

A son who enjoys the wild sports of the West
ever so much better than he enjoys his home; but
who will settle down by-and-by into a model
country Squire."

"I doubt that, Christabel. I don't think he
will ever settle down  now."

There was an emphasis  an almost angry emphasis
 upon the last word which told Christabel
only too plainly what her aunt meant. She could
guess what disappointment it was that her aunt
sighed over in the long, lonely evenings ; and,
albeit the latent resentfulness in Mrs. TregonelFs
mind was an injustice, her niece could not help
being sorry for her.

VOL. I. p

 Yes, dearest, he will  lie wills she said, resolutely.
 He-will have his fill of shooting bisons,
and all manner of big and small game, out yonder;
and he will come home, and marry some good sweet
girl, who will love you only just a little less than I
do, and he will be the last grand example of the
old-fashioned country Squire  a race fast dying out;
and he will be as much respected as if the dower
of the Norman Dotterel still ruled in the land, and
he had the right of dealing out high-handed justice,
and immuring his fellow-creatures in a dungeon
under his drawing-rooms

I would rather you would not talk about him,'
answered the widow, gloomily ; ' you turn everything
into a joke. You forget that in my uncertainty
about his fate, every thought of him is
fraught with pains''

Belle hung her head, and the meal ended in
silence. After luncheon came dressing, and then
the drive to Twickenham, with Major Bree in
attendance. Christabel told him of her success as
they drove through the Park to Kensington.

I have the pleasure to invite you to a seat in



my box at the Kaleidoscope this evening," she
said.

'what box?"

"A box which Jessie and I secured this morning,
before you had finished your breakfast."

A box for this evening ?"

'' For this evening."

I wonder you care to go to a theatre without
Harleigh."

*' It is very cruel of you to say that !" exclaimed
Christ abel her eyes brightening with girlish tears,
which her pride checked before they could fall.
You ought to know that 1 am wretched without
him  and that I want to lose the sense of my
misery in dreamland. The theatre for me is what
opium was for Coleridge and De Quince."

I understand," said Major Bree ; '' 'you are not
merry, but you do beguile the thing you are by
seeming otherwise "

You will go with us ?"

Of course, if Mrs. Tregonell does not object."

I shall be very grateful to you for taking care
of themes answered the dowager languidly, as she

leant back in her carriage  a fine example of handsome
middle-age : gracious, elegant, bearing every
mark of good birth, yet with a worn look, as of one
for whom fading beauty and decline of strength
would come too swiftly. " I know I shall be tired
to death when we get back to town."

I don't think London society suits you so well
as the monotony of Mount Royal," said Major Bree.

No ; but I am glad Christabel has had her
first season. People have been extremely kind.
I never thought we should have so many invitations."


 You did not know that beauty is the ace of
trumps in the game of society."

The garden party was as other parties of the
same genus : strawberry ices and iced coffee in a
tent under a spreading Spanish chestnut  music
and recitations in a drawing-room, with many
windows looking upon the bright swift river  and the
picturesque roofs of Old Richmond  just that one
little picturesque group of bridge and old tiled-gables
which still remains  fine gowns, fine talk; a dash
of the aesthetic element ; strange colours, strange

forms and fashions ; pretty girls in grandmother
bonnets; elderly women in limp Ophelia gowns
with tumbled frills and lank hair. Christabel and
the Major walked about the pretty garden, and
criticized all the eccentricities she glad to keep
aloof from her many admirers  safe under the wing
of a familiar friend.

Five o'clock she said ; '' that makes twenty-four
hours. Do you think he will be back tomorrow
T'

He ? Might I ask whom you mean by that
pronoun ?"

 Angus. His telegram this morning said that
his aunt was really ill  not in any danger  but
still quite an invalid, and that he would be obliged
to stay a little longer than he had hoped might be
needful, in order to cheer her. Do you think he
will be able to come back tomorrow T'

Hardly, I fear. Twenty-four hours would bea
very short time for the cheering process. I
think you ought to allow him a week. Did you
answer his telegram ?''

Why, of course ! I told him how miserable I

was without him ; but that he must do whatever
was right and kind for his aunt. I wrote him a long
letter before luncheon to the same effect. But , oh,
I hope the dear old lady will get well very quickly \"

'' If usquebaugh can mend her, no doubt the
recovery will be rapid'' answered the Major, laughing.
" I dare say that is why you are so anxious
for Hamleighs return. You think if he stays in
the North he may become a confirmed toddy-drinker.
By-the-by, when his return is so uncertain, do you
think it is quite safe for you to go to the theatre
to-night ? He might come to Bolton Kow during
your absences

is hardly possible'' said Christabel. ' But
even if such a happy thing should occur, he would
come and join us at the Kaleidoscope."'

This was the Majors last feeble and futile effort
to prevent a wilful woman having her own
way. They rejoined Mrs. Tregonell, and went
back to their carriage almost immediately  were
in Bolton Bow in time for a seven o'clock
dinner, and were seated in the box at the
Kaleidoscope a few minutes after eight. The

Kaleidoscope was one of the new theatres which
have been added to the attractions of London during
the last twenty years. It was a small house and
of exceeding elegance ; the inspiration of the
architect thereof seemingly derived rather from the
bonbonnieres of Sirandin and Boissier than from the
severer exemplars of high art. Somebody said it
was a theatre which looked as if it ought to be filled
with glace chestnuts, or crystallized violets, rather
than with substantial flesh and blood. The draperies
thereof were of palest dove-coloured poplin and
cream white satin ; the fauteuils were upholstered
in velvet of the same dove colour, with a monogram
in dead gold ; the pilasters and mouldings were of
the , slenderest and most delicate order  no heavy
masses of gold or colour  all airy, light, graceful ;
the sweeping curve of the auditorium was in itself
a thing of beauty : every fold of the voluminous
dove-coloured curtain, lined with crimson satin 
which flashed among the dove tints here and there,
like a gleam of vivid colour in the breast of a
tropical bird  was a study. The front of the house
was lighted with old-fashioned wax candles, a recurrence

to obsolete fashion which reminded the few
survivors of the Doorway period of Her Majesty's in
the splendid days of Pasta and Malian , and which
delighted the Court and Livery of the Tallow
Chandlers Company.

What a lovely theatre V cried Christabel, looking
round the house, which was crowded with a
brilliant audience ;  and how cruel of you not to
bring us here ! It is the prettiest theatre we have
seen yet.''''

Yes ; its a nice little place, '' said the Major,
feebly ; " but, you see, they've been playing the
same piece all the season  no variety.''''

' What did that matter, when we had not seen
the piece ? Besides, a young man I danced with
told me he had been to see it fifteen times.

'' That young man was an ass !" grumbled the
Major.

Well, I can help thinking so too," assented
Christabel. And then the overture began  a dreamy,
classical compound, made up of reminiscences of
Mozart, Beethoven, and Weber  a melodious
patchwork, dignified by scientific orchestration.



CLristabel listened dreamily to the dreamy music,
thinking of Angus all the while  wondering what
he was doing in the far-away Scottish land, which
she knew only from Sir Walters novels.

The dove-coloured curtains were drawn apart to
a strain of plaintive sweetness, and the play  half
poem, half satire  began. The scene was a palace
garden, in some " unsuspected isle in far-off seas.
The personages were Psyche, her sisters, and the
jealous goddess, whose rest had been disturbed by
rumours of an earthly beauty which surpassed her
own divine charms, and who approached the palace
disguised as a crone, dealing in philters and simples,
ribbons and perfumes, a kind of female Autolycus.

First came a dialogue between Venus and the
elder sisters  handsome women both, but of a coarse
type of beauty, looking too large for the frame in
which they appeared. Christabel and Jessie enjoyed
the smartness of the dialogue, which sparkled with
Aristophanes hits at the follies of the hour, and
yet had a poetical grace which seemed the very
flavour of the old Greek world.

At last, after the interest of the fable had fairly

begun, there rose the faint melodious breathing of
a strange music within the palace  the quaint and
primitive harmonies of a three-stringed lyre  and
Psyche came slowly down the marble steps a
slender, gracious figure in classic drapery  Canvass
statue incarnate.

 Very pretty faces muttered the Major, looking
at her through his opera-glass ; " but no figure.''

The slim, willowy form, delicately and lightly
moulded as a young fawn was assuredly of a type
widely different from the two young women of the
fleshly school who represented Psyche's jealous sisters.
In their case there seemed just enough mind toheep
those sleelv, well-favoured bodies in motion. In
Stella Mayne the soul, or, at any rate, an ethereal
essence, a vivid beauty of expression, an electric
brightness, which passes for the soul, so predominated
over the sensual, that it would have scarcely surprised
one if this fragile butterfly-creature had verily
spread a pair of filmy wings and floated away into
space. The dark liquid eyes, the small chiselled
features, exquisitely Greek, were in most perfect
harmony with the character. Amongst the substantial

sensuous forms of her companions this
Psyche moved like a being from the spirit world.

Oh V cried Christabel almost with a gasp, "how
perfectly lovely V'

Yes ; she's very pretty, isn't she V muttered
the Major, tugging at his grey moustache, and
glaring at the unconscious Psyche from his lurking
place at the back of the box.

 Pretty is not the word. She is the realization
of a poems

Jessie Bridgeman said nothing. She had looked
straight from Psyche to the Major, as he grunted
out his acquiescence, and the troubled expression of
his face troubled her. It was plain to her all in a
moment that his objection to the Kaleidoscope
Theatre was really an objection to Psyche. Yet
what harm could that lovely being on the stage,
even were she the worst and vilest of her sex, do to
any one so remote from her orbit as Christabel
Courtenay ?

The play went on. Psyche spoke her graceful
lines with a perfect intonation. Nature had in
this case not been guilty of cruel inconsistency.

The actress's voice was as sweet as her face; every
movement was harmonious ; every look lovely. She
was not a startling actress ; nor was there any need
of great acting in the part that had been written
for her. She was Psyche  the loved the loving,
pursued by jealousy, persecuted by womens unwomanly
hatred, afflicted, despairing  yet loving
always; beautiful in every phase of her gentle life.

''Do you like the play? asked the Major,
grimly, when the curtain had fallen on the first act.

I never enjoyed anything so much ! It is so
different from all other plays we have seen, said
Christabel ; " and Psyche  Miss Stella Mayne, is she
not  is the loveliest creature I ever saw in my life's

You must allow a wide margin for stage
make-up, paint and powder, and darkened lashes,
grumbled the Major.

But I have been studying her face through my
glass. It is hardly at all made up. Just compare
it with the faces of the two sisters, which are like
china plates, badly fired. Jessie, that are you
dreaming about ? You haven't a particle of enthusiasm
! "Why don't you say something V



* I don't want to be an eclio/ said Miss Bridgeman,
curtly. " I could only repeat what you are
saying. I canst be original enough to say that
Miss Mayne is ugly."

She is simply the loveliest creature we have
seen on the stage or off it," exclaimed Christabel,
who was too rustic to want to know who Miss
Mayne was , and where the manager had discovered
such a pearl, as a London player might have done.

Hark !" said Jessie ; ' there's a knock at the
door."

ChristabePs heart began to beat violently. Could
it be Angus? No, it was more likely to be some
officious person, offering ices.

It was neither ; but a young man of the languid-elegant
type  one of ChristabeFs devoted admirers,
the very youth who had told her of his having
seen  Cupid and Psyche," fifteen times.

Why this makes the sixteenth time," she said,
smiling at him as they shook hands.

I think it is nearer the twentieth," he replied ;
it is quite the jolliest piece in London ! Don't
you agree with me?"

CUPID AND PSYCHE.

I think it is  remarkably  jolly!" answered
Christabel,, laughing. " What odd words you have
in London for the expression of your ideas  and so
few of them V

A kind of short-hands'' said the Major ' arbitrary
characters. Jolly means anything you like 
awful means anything you like. That kind of
language gives the widest scope for the exercise of
the imagination."

How is Mrs. Tregonell V asked the youth , not
being given to the discussion of abstract questions,
frivolous or solemn. He had a mind which could
only grasp life in the concrete  an intellect that
required to deal with actualities  people, coats,
hats, boots, dinner, park-hack  just as little children
require actual counters to calculate with.

He subsided into a chair behind Miss Courtenay,
and, the box being a large one, remained there for the
rest of the play  to the despair* of a companion
youth in the stalls, who looked up ever and anon,
vacuous and wondering, and who resembled his friend
as closely as a well-matched carriage-horse resembles
his fellow  grooming and action precisely similar.

What brilliant diamonds ! said Christabel,
noticing a collet necklace which Psyche wore in
the second act, and which was a good deal out of
harmony with her Greek drapery  not by any
means resembling those simple golden ornaments
which patient Dr. Schliemann and his wife dug out
of the hill at Hissarlik. " But , of course,, they are
only stage jewels continued Christabel ; 'yet they
sparkle as brilliantly as diamonds of the first water."

Very odd, but so they do," muttered young
FitzPelham, behind her shoulder ; and then, sottovoce
to the Major, he said  "that's the worst of
giving these women jewels, they will wear them."

And that emerald butterfly on her shoulder,"
pursued Christabel ; " one would suppose it were
real."

'' A real butterfly ?"

"No, real emeralds."

' It belonged to the Empress of the French, and
was sold for three hundred and eighty guineas
at Christie," said FitzPelham ; whereupon Major
Breeds substantial boot came down heavily on the
youths Queen Anne shoe. " At least, the Empress

had one like it/-* stammered FitzPelham saying
to himself, in his own vernacular, that he had
hoofed it'

How do you like Stella Mayne ?" he asked
by-and-by, when the act was over.

I am charmed with her. She is the sweetest
actress I ever saw; not the greatest  there are
two or three who far surpass her in genius; but
there is a sweetness  a fascination. I don't wonder
she is the rage. I only wonder Major Bree could
have deprived me of the pleasure of seeing her all
this time''

'' You could stand the piece a second time,
couldn't you ?"

'' Certainly  or a third time. It is so poetical 
it carries one into a new world !"

Pretty foot and ankle, hasn't she ?" murmured
FitzPelham  to which frivolous comment Miss
Courtenay made no reply.

Her soul was rapt in the scene before her 
the mystic wood whither Psyche had now wandered
with her divine lover. The darkness of a
summer night in the Greek Archipelago  fireflies

flitting athwart ilex and olive bushes  a glimpse
of the distant starlit sea.

Here  goaded by her jealous sisters to a fatal
curiosity  Psyche stole with her lamp to the couch
of her sleeping lover, gazing spell-bound upon that
godlike countenance  represented in actual flesh
by a chubby round face and round brown eyes 
and in her glad surprise letting fall a drop of oil
from her lamp on Cupids winged shoulder 
whereon the god leaves her, wounded by her want of
faith. Had he not told her they must meet only
in the darkness, and that she must never seek to
know his name ? So ends the second act of the
fairy drama. In the third, poor Psyche is in
ignoble bondage  a slave to Venus, in the goddess's
Palace at Cythera  a fashionable, fine-lady Venus,
who leads her gentle handmaiden a sorry life, till
the god of love comes to her rescue. And here, in
the tiring chamber of the goddess, the playwright
makes sport of all the arts by which modern
beauty is manufactured. Here poor Psyche 
tearful, despairing  has to toil at the creation of the
Queen of Beauty, whose charms of face and figure

VOL. 1. Q

are discovered to be all falsehood, from the topmost
curl of her toupet to the arched instep under her
j e welled buskin . Throughout this scene Psyche alternates
between smiles and tears ; and then at the last
Cupid appears  claims his mistress,, defies his mother,
and the happy lovers, linked in each others arms,
float sky-ward on a shaft of lime-light. And so the
graceful mythic drama ends  fanciful from the first
line to the last, gay and lightly touched as burlesque,
yet with an element of poetry which burlesque for
the most part lacks.

ChristabeFs interest had been maintained
throughout the performance.

How extraordinarily silent you have been all
the evening, Jessie \" she said, as they were putting
on their cloaks; "surely, you like the play V

I like it pretty well. It is rather thin, I
think ; but then, perhaps, that is because T have
Twelfth Night ' still in my memory, as we heard
Mr. Brandram recite it last week at Williams
K-ooms.''

Nobody expects modern comedy to be as good
as Shakespeare retorted Christabel ; ' you might

as well find fault with the electric light for not
being quite equal to the moon. Don't you admire
that exquisite creature T'

' Which of them T' asked Jessie stolidly,
buttoning her cloak.

 Which of them ! Oh, Jessie, you have generally
such good taste. Why, Miss Mayne, of
course. It is almost painful to look at the others.
They are such common earthy creatures, compared
with her !"

 I have no doubt she is very wonderful  and
she is the fashion, which goes for a great deal,"
answered Miss Bridgeman ; but never a word in
praise of Stella Mayne could Christabel extort from
her. She  who, educated by Shepherd's Bush and
poverty, was much more advanced in knowledge
of evil than the maiden from beyond Tamar 
suspected that some sinister influence was to be
feared in Stella Mayne. Why else had the Major so
doggedly opposed their visit to this particular
theatre ? Why else did he look so glum when
Stella Mayne was spoken about ?

CHAPTER VIII.

LE SECRET DE POLTCHINELLE,

The next day but one was Thursday  an afternoon
upon which Mrs. Tregonell was in the habit of
staying at home to receive callers, and a day on which
her small drawing-rooms were generally filled with
more or less pleasant people  chiefly of the fairer
sex  from four to six. The three rooms  small by
degrees and beautifully less  the old-fashioned
furniture and profusion of choicest flowers  lent
themselves admirably to gossip and afternoon
tea, and were even conducive to mild flirtation, for
there was generally a sprinkling of young men of
the FitzPelham type  having nothing particular to
say, but always faultless in their dress, and well-meaning
as to their manners.

On this afternoon  which to Christabel seemed
a day of duller hue and colder atmosphere than
all previous Thursdays, on account of Angus Ham

leigh's absence  there were rather more callers
than usual. The season was ripening towards its
close. Some few came to pay their last visit, and
to inform Mrs. Tregonell and her niece about their
holiday movements  generally towards the Enga-
-dine or some German Spa  the one spot of earth
to which their constitution could accommodate itself
at this time of year.

I am obliged to go to Pontresina before
the end of July' said a ponderous middle-aged
matron to Miss Courtenay. " I canst breathe anywhere
else in August and September."

' I think you would find plenty of air at Bos-castles"
said Christabelj smiling at her earnestness ;
* but I dare say the Engadine is very nice!'

Five thousand feet above the level of the seas
said the matron proudly.

'' I like to be a little nearer the sea  to see it 
and smell it  and feel its spray upon my faces
answered Christabel. ' Do you take your children
with you?"

Oh, no, they all go to Ramsgate with the
governess and a maid."

Poor little things ! And how sad for you to
know that there are all those mountain passes  a
three days journey  between you and your children."


'eyes , it is very trying!" sighed the mother;
'* hut they are so fond of Ramsgate ; and the
Engadine is the only place that suits me."

 You have never been to Chagford ?"

Chagford ! No ; what is Chagford r

A village upon the edge of Dartmoor  all
among the Devonshire hills. People go there for
the fine bracing air. I canst help thinking it must
do them almost as much good as the Engadine."

Indeed ! I have heard that Devonshire is quite
too lovely said the matron, who would have despised
herself had she been familiar with her native
land. " But what have you done with Mr. harleigh
? I am quite disappointed at not seeing him
this afternoon's

is in Scotland's said Christabel, and then
went on to tell as much as was necessary about her
lover's journey to the North.

* How dreadfully dull you must be without him !"

said the lady sympathetically and several other
ladies  notably a baronets widow, who had been a
friend of Mrs. TregonelFs girlhood  a woman who
never said a kind word of anybody , yet was invited
everywhere, and who had the reputation of giving a
better dinner, on a small scale, than any other lonely
woman in London. The rest were young women,
mostly of the gushing type, who were prepared to
worship Christabel because she was pretty, an heiress,
and engaged to a man of some distinction in their
particular world. They had all clustered round
Mrs. Tregonell and her niece, in the airy front
drawing-room, while Miss Bridgeman poured out tea
at a Japanese table in the middle room, waited
upon sedulously by Major Bree, Mr. FitzPelham,
and another youth, a Somerset House young man,
who wrote for the Society papers  or believed that
he did, on the strength of having had an essay on
Tame Cats" accepted in the big gooseberry season
and gave himself to the world as a person familiar
with the undercurrents of literary and dramatic life.
The ladies made a circle round Mrs. Tregonell,
and these three gentlemen, circulating with tea-cups.

sugar-basins, and cream-pots, joined spasmodically
in the conversation.

Christabel owned to finding a certain emptiness
in life without her lover. She did not parade her
devotion to him, but was much too unaffected to
pretend indifference.

' We went to the theatre on Tuesday night' she
said.

' Oh, how could you V cried the oldest and most
gushing of the three young ladies. " Without Mr.
Harleigh V'

' That was our chief reason for going. We knew
we should be dull without him. We went to the
Kaleidoscope, and were delighted with Psyche.

All three young ladies gushed in chorus. Stella
Mayne was quite too lovely  a poem, a revelation,
and so on, and so on. Lady Cumberbridge, the
baronet's widow, pursed her lips and elevated her
eyebrows, which, on a somewhat modified form,
resembled Lord Thurlow's, but said nothing. The
Somerset House young man stole a glance at Fits
and smiled meaningly ; but the amiable
FitzPelham was only vacuous.

Of course you have seen this plays said Mrs.
Tregonell, turning to Lady Cumberbridge. " You
see everything, I know?

' Yes ; I make it my business to see everything
 good, bad, and indifferent" answered the
strong-minded dowager, in a voice which would
hardly have shamed the Lord Chancellor's wig,
which those Thurlow-like eyebrows so curiously
suggested. " It is the sole condition upon which
London life is worth living. If one only saw the
good things, one would spend most of one's evening
at home, and we don't leave our country places
for that. I see a good deal that bores me, an
immense deal that disgusts me, and a little  a very
little  that I can honestly admire"

' Then I am sure you must admire  Cupid and
Psyche," "" said Christabel.

' My dear, that piece, which I am told has
brought a fortune to the management, is just one
of the things that I don't care to talk about before
young people. I look upon it as the triumph of vice :
and I wonder  yes, very much wonder  that you
were allowed to see it""

There was an awfulness about the dowager's tone
as she uttered these final sentences, which 
Thurlow. Christabel shivered,, hardly-knowing
why, hut heartily wishing there had been
no such person as Lady Cumberbridge among her
aunt's London acquaintance.

' But, surely there is nothing improper in the
play, dear Lady Cumberbridge,'''' exclaimed the eldest
gusher, too long in society to shrink from sifting any
question of that kind.

There is a great deal that is improper," replied
the dowager, sternly.

'* Surely not in the language : that is too lovely ?'"
urged the gusher. " I must be very dense, Tm
afraid, for I really did not see anything objectionable''


' You must be very blind, as well as dense, if
you didn't see Stella Mayne's diamonds," retorted
the dowager.

' Oh, of course I saw the diamonds. One could
not help seeing themes

And do you think there is nothing improper in
those diamonds, or their history?" demanded Lady

Cumberbridge,, glaring at the damsel from under
those terrific eyebrows. " If so you must be less
experienced in the ways of the world than I gave
you credit for being. But I think I said before
that this is a question which I do riot care to discuss
before young people  even advanced as young
people are in their ways and opinions now-a-days.''
The maiden blushed, at this reproof ; and the conversation
, steered judiciously by Mrs. Tregonell,
glided on to safer topics. Yet calmly as that lady
bore herself, and carefully as she managed to keep
the talk among pleasant ways for the next half-hour,
her mind was troubled not a little by the things that
had been said about Stella Mayne. There had been
a curious significance in the dowager's tone when
she expressed surprise at Christabel having been
allowed to see this play. That significant tone, in
conjunction with Major Breed's marked opposition to
Beliefs wish upon this one matter argued that there
was some special reason why Belle should not sec
this actress. Mrs. Tregonell like all quiet people,
very observant, bad seen the Somerset House young
manes meaning smile as the play was mentioned.

What was this peculiar something which all these
people had in their minds ? and of which she 
aunt, to whom the girls welfare and happiness
were vital knew nothing.

She determined to take the most immediate and
direct way of knowing all that was to be known, by
questioning that peripatetic chronicle of fashionable
scandal, Lady Cumberbridge. This popular personage
knew a great deal more than the Society papers,
and was not constrained like those prints to disguise
her knowledge in Delphic hints and dark sayings.
Lady Cumberbridge, like John Knox, never feared
the face of man, and could be as plain-spoken and
as coarse as she pleased.

I should so like to have a few words with you
by-and-by, if you don't mind waiting till these girls
are gone, murmured Mrs. Tregonell.

Very well, my dear ; get rid of them as soon as
you can, for Tve some people coming to dinner, and
I want an hour's sleep before I put on my gowns"*

The little assembly dispersed within the next
quarter of an hour, and Christabel joined Jessie in
the smaller drawing-room.

You can shut the folding doors Belle," said
Mrs. Tregonell, carelessly. " You and Jessie are
sure to be chattering ; and I want a quiet talk with
Lady Cumberbridge."

Christabel obeyed wondering a little what the
quiet talk would be about, and whether by any
chance it would touch upon the play last night.
She, too, had been struck by the significance of the
dowager's tone ; and then it was so rarely that she
found herself excluded from any conversation in
which her aunt had part.

Now' said Mrs. Tregonell, directly the doors
were shut, " I want to know why Christabel should
not have been allowed to see that play the other
night?"

What \" cried Lady Cumberbridge, " don't you
know why ?"

Indeed no. I did not go with them, so I had
no opportunity of judging as to the play."

*' My dear soul," exclaimed the deep voice of the
dowager, ' it is not the play  the play is well
enough  it is the woman ! And do you really mean
to tell me that you don't know ?"

That I don't know what ?"

Stella Mayne's history V

'what should I know of her more than of any
other actress ? They are all the same to me, like
pictures, which I admire or not, from the outside.
I am told that some are women of fashion who go
everywhere, and that it is a privilege to know them ;
and that some one ought hardly to speak about,
though one may go to see them; while there are
others "

Who hover like stars between two world's said
Lady Curaberbridge. " Yes, that's all true. And
nobody has told you anything about Stella Mayne ?"

'' No one !"

 Then Pm very sorry I mentioned her name to
you. I dare say you will hate me if I tell you the
truth : people always do ; because, in point of fact,
truth is generally hateful. We can't afford to live
up to it."

I shall be grateful to you if you will tell me all
that there is to be told about this actress, who seems
in some way to be concerned "

' In your niece's happiness ? Well, no, my dear,

we will hope not. It is all a thing of the past. Your
friends have been remarkably discreet. It is really
extraordinary that you should have heard nothing
about it ; but on reflection,, I think it is really
better you should know the fact. Stella Mayne is
the young woman for whom Mr. Harleigh nearly
ruined himself three years ago''

Mrs. Tregonell turned white as death.

Her mind had not been educated to the acceptance
of sin and folly as a natural element in a young
manes life. In her view of mankind the good men
were all Bayards  fearless, stainless ; the bad were
a race apart, to be shunned by all good women. To
be told that her niece's future husband  the man
for whose sake her whole scheme of life had been
set aside, the man whom Christabel and she had so
implicitly trusted  was a fashionable libertine  the
lover of an actress  the talk of the town  was a
revelation that changed the whole colour of life.

Are you sure that this is true T' she asked,
falteringly.

' My dear creature, do I ever say anything that
isn't true ? There is no need to invent things.

God knows the tidings people do are bad enough,
and wild enough, to supply conversation for everybody.
But this about Harleigh and Stella Mayne
is as well known as the Albert Memorial. He was
positively infatuated about her ; took her off the
stage : she was in the back row of the ballet at
Drury Lane, salary seventeen and sixpence a week.
He lived with her in Italy for a year; then they came
back to England, and he gave her a house in St.
John's Wood ; squandered his money upon her ;
had her educated ; worshipped her, in fact ; and, I
am told, would have married her, if she had only
behaved herself. Fortunately, these women never
do behave themselves : they show the cloven-foot
too soon ; our people only go wrong after marriage.
But I hope, my dear, you will not allow yourself to
be worried by this business. It is all a thing of the
past, and Harleigh weill make just as good a
husband as if it had never happened ; better, perhaps,
for he will be all the more able to appreciate
a pure-minded girl like your niece's''

Mrs. Tregonell listened with a stony visage. She
was thinking of Leonard  Leonard who had never

done wrong, in this way, within his mother's knowledge
 who had been cheated out of his future wife
by a flashy trickster  a man who talked like a
poet, and who yet had given his first passionate love,
and the best and brightest years of his life to a
stage-dancer.

'' How long is it since Mr. Harleigh has ceased
to be devoted to Miss Mayne ?" she asked, in a cold,
dull voice.

I cannot say exactly : one hears so many different
stories ; there were paragraphs in the Society
papers last season : A certain young sprig of fashion,
a general favourite, whose infatuation for a well-known
actress has been a matter of regret among
the haute vole, is said to have broken his bonds.
The lady keeps her diamonds, and threatens to
publish his letters,' and so on, and so forth. You
know the kind of thing ?"

I do not," said Mrs. Tregonell. " I have never
taken any interest in such paragraphs."

Ah ! that is the consequence of vegetating: at
the fag-end of England : all the pungency is taken
out of life for you."

VOL. I. R

Mrs. Tregonell asked no further questions. She
had made up her mind that any more detailed information,
which she might require, must be obtained
from another channel. She did not want this
battered woman of the world to know how hard she
was hit. Yes  albeit there was a far-off gleam
of light amidst this darkness  she was profoundly-hurt
by the knowledge of Angus Hamleighs wrongdoing.
He had made himself very dear to her
dear from the tender association of the past  dear
for his own sake. She had believed him a man of
scrupulous honour, of pure and spotless life. Perhaps
she had taken all this for granted, in her
rustic simplicity, seeing that all his ideas and
instincts were those of a gentleman. She had made
no allowance for the fact that the will-o'-the-wisp,
passionate love, may lure even a gentleman into
swampy ground; and that his sole superiority over
profligates of coarser clay will be to behave himself
like a gentleman in those morasses whither an
errant fancy has beguiled him.

"I hope you will not let this influence your
feelings towards Mr. Harleigh'' said Lady Cum-beveridge

; " if you did so I should really feel sorry
for having told you. But you must inevitably
have heard the story from somebody else before
longs

** No doubt. I suppose everybody knows it.'
fWhy yes it was tolerably notorious. They
used to be seen everywhere together. Mr. harleigh
seemed proud of his infatuation,, and there
were plenty of men in his own set to encourage
him. Modern society has adopted Cantons motto,
don't you know ?  de Vaudace, encore de Vaudace et
toujours de Vaudace ! And now I must go and get
my siesta or I shall be as stupid as an owl all th
evening. Good-bye.'''

Mrs. Tregonell sat like a statue absorbed in
thought for a considerable time after Lady Cum-beveridge's
departure. What was she to do ?
This horrid story was true, no doubt. Major Bree
would be able to confirm it presently, when he came
back to dinner, as he had promised to come. What
was she to do ? Allow the engagement to go on ?
allow an innocent and pure-misled girl to marry
a man whose infatuation for an actress had been

II 2

town talk ; who had come to Mount Royal fresh
from that evil association  wounded to the core, perhaps,
by the base creatures infidelity  and seeking
consolation wherever it might offer; bringing his
second-hand feelings, with all the bloom worn off
them, to the shrine of innocent young beauty ! 
dedicating the mere ashes of burned-out fires to
the woman who was to be his wife ; perhaps even
making scornful comparisons between her simple
rustic charms and the educated fascinations of the
actress ; bringing her the leavings of a life  the
mere dregs of youths wine-cup ! Was Christabel
to be permitted to continue under this shameful
delusion  to believe that she was receiving all
when she was getting nothing ? No !  ten thousand
times, no ! It was womanhood's stern duty to come
to the rescue of guileless, too-trusting girlhood.
Bitter as the ordeal must needs be for both,
Christabel must be told the whole cruel truth.
Then it would be for her own heart to decide.
She would still be a free agent. But surely her
own purity of feeling would teach her to decide
rightly  to renounce the lover who had so fooled

and cheated her  and perhaps, later to reward the
devotion of that other adorer who had loved her
from boyhood upwards with a steady unwavering
affection  chiefly demonstrated by the cairn self-assured
manner in which he had written of Chris-abel
 in his letters to his mother  as his future
wife, the possibility of her rejection of that honour
never having occurred to his rustic intelligence.

Christabel peeped in through the half opened door.

Well, Aunt Di, is your conference over ? Hasher
ladyship gone ?"

Yes, dear; I am trying to coax myself to sleeps''
answered Mrs. Tregonell from the depths of her
arm-chair.

Then 111 go and dress for dinner. Ah, how I
only wish there were a chance of Angus coming
back to-night V' sighed Christabel, softly closing
the door.

Major Bree came in ten minutes afterwards.

Come here, and sit by my side," said Mrs.
Tregonell. " I want to talk to you seriously .''

The Major complied, feeling far from easy in his
mind.

LE SECRET DE POLICHINELLE.

How pale you look !" he said ; ' is there anything
wrong ?'

Yes  everything is wrong ! Yon have treated
me very badly. You have been false to me and
to Christabel \''

"That is rather a wide accusations said the
Major calmly. He knew perfectly what was coming,
and that he should require all his patience  all that
sweetness ot temper which had been his distinction
through life  in order to leaven the widows wrath
against the absent. " Perhaps, you won't think it
too much trouble to explain the exact nature of
my offence ?''

Mrs. Tregonell told him Lady Cumberbridge''s
story.

"Did sou, or did you not, know this last
October ?" she asked.

I had heard something about it when I was in
London two years before."

"And you did not consider it your duty to
tell me ?"

Certainly not. I told you at the time, when
I came back from town, that your young protege's

life had been a trifle wild. Miss Bridgeman remembered
the fact, and spoke of it the night Harleigh
came to Mount Royal. When I saw how matters
were going with Belie and Harleigh, I made it my
business to question him, considering myself Beliefs
next friend; and he assured me, as between man
and man, that the adair with Stella Mayne was
over  that he had broken with her formally and
finally. From first to last I believe he acted wonderfully
well in the businesses''

Acted well !  acted well, to be the avowed lover
of such a woman !  to advertise his devotion to her
associate his name with hers irrevocably  for you
know that the world never forgets these alliances
and then to come to Mount Royal, and practise
upon our provincial ignorance, and offer his battered
life to my niece ! Was that well T'

You could hardly wish him to have told your
niece the whole story. Besides, it is a thing of
the past. No man can go through life with the
burden of his youthful follies hanging round his
neck, and strangling him.

The past is as much a part of a manes life as

the present. I want my niece's husband to be a
man of an unstained paste

"Then you will have to wait a long time for
him. My dear Mrs. Tregonell pray be reasonable,
just commonly reasonable ! There is not a family
in England into which Angus Harleigh would not
be received with open arms, if he offered himself asa
suitor. Why should you draw a hard-and-fast
line, sacrifice Belle's happiness to a chimerical idea
of manly virtue ? You can't have King Arthur for
your niece's husband, and if you could, perhaps you
wouldn't care about him. Why not be content
with Lancelot, who has sinned, and is sorry for his
sin; and of whom may be spoken praise almost as
noble as those famous words Sir Cohort spoke over
his friend's dead body."

I shall not sacrifice Belle's happiness. If she
were my daughter I should take upon myself to
judge for her, and while I lived she should never
see Angus Harleigh's face again. But she is my
sister's child, and I shall give her the liberty of
judgment."

"You don't mean that you will tell her this story'*

Most decidedly'

"' For Gods sake don't !  you will spoil her
happiness for ever. To you and me Who must
have some knowledge of the world,, it ought to bea
small thing that a man has made a fool of himself
about an actress. We ought to know for how
little that kind of folly counts in a lifetime. But
for a girl brought up like Christabel it will mean
disenchantment  doubt  perhaps a lifetime of
jealousy and self-torment. For mercies sake be
reasonable in this matter ! I am talking to you as
if I were Christabers father remember. I suppose
that old harridan, Lady Cumberbridge, told you this
precious story. Such women ought to be put
down by Act of Parliament. Yes, there should
be a law restricting every unattached female over five-and-forty
to a twenty-mile radius of her country-house.
After that age their tongues are dangerous'

' My friend Lady Cumberbridge told me facts
which seem to be within everybody's knowledge ;
and she told them at my particular request. Your
rudeness about her does not make the case any
better for Mr. Harleigh, or for you."

I think I had better go and dine at my club'
said the Major perfectly placid.

No, stay please. You have proved yourself a
broken reed to lean upon; but still you are a
reed''

If I stay it will be to persuade you to spare
Belle the knowledge of this wretched story."

'' I suppose he has almost ruined himself for the
creature' said Mrs. Tregonell, glancing at the
subject for the first time from a practical point of
view.

He spent a good many thousands, but as he
had no other vices  did not race or gamble  his
fortune survived the shock. His long majority
allowed for considerable accumulations, you see.
He began life with a handsome capital in hand. I
dare say Miss jNIayne sweated that down for him !'*

' I don't want to go into details  I only want to
know how far he deceived us ? "

*' There was no deception as to his means  which
are ample  nor as to the fact that he is entirely
free from the entanglement we have been talking
about. Every one in London knows that the

affair was over and done with more than a year
ago'

The two girls came down to the drawing-room,
and dinner was announced. It was a very dismal
dinner  the dreariest that had ever been eaten in
that house, Christabel thought. Mrs. Tregonell
was absorbed in her own thoughts absent, automatic
in all she said and did. The Major maintained
a forced hilarity which was more painful
than silence. Jessie looked anxious.

ni tell you what, girls' said Major Bree, as
the mournful meal languished towards its melancholy
close, ''we seem all very doleful without
Harleigh. Til run round to Bond Street directly
after dinner, and see if I can get three stalls
for  Lohengrin.' They are often to be had at the
last moment."

"Please, don't," said Christabel, earnestly; "1
would not go to a theatre again without Angus. I
am Sony I went the other night. It was obstinate
and foolish of me to insist upon seeing that play,
and I was punished for it by that horrid old woman
this afternoon."

But you liked the play V

Yes  wale I was seeing it ; but now I have
taken a dislike to Miss Mayne. I feel as if I had
seen a snake  all grace and lovely colour  and had
caught hold of it, only to find that it was a snake''

The Major stared and looked alarmed. Was this
an example of instinct superior to reason ?

Let me try for the opera' he said. ' Vm.
sure it would do you good to go. You will sit in
the front drawing-room listening for hansoms all
the evening, fancying that every pair of wheels you
hear is bringing Angus back to you.''

'* I would rather be doing that than be sitting at
the opera, thinking of him. But Pm afraid there's
no chance of his coming to-night. His letter to-day
told me that his aunt insists upon his staying two
or three days longer, and that she is ill enough to
make him anxious to oblige her''

The evening passed in placid dreariness. Mrs.
Tregonell sat brooding in her arm-chair  pondering
whether she should or should not tell Christabel
everything  knowing but too well how the girl's
happiness was dependent upon her undisturbed

belief in her lover yet repeating to herself again
and again that it was right and fair that Christabel
should know the truth  nay, ever so much better
that she should be told it now when she was still
free to shape her own future, than that sne should
make the discovery later, when she was Angus
Hamleighs wife. This last consideration  the
thought, that a secret which was everybody's secret
must inevitably, sooner or later, become known to
Christabel  weighed heavily with Mrs. Tregonell ;
and through all her meditations there was interwoven
the thought of her absent son, and how his future
welfare might depend upon the course to be taken
now.

Christabel played and sang, while the Major and
Jessie Bridgeman sat at bezique. The friendship
of these two had been in no wise disturbed by the
Major's offer, and the lady's rejection. It was the
habit of both to take life pleasantly. Jessie took
pains to show the Major how sincerely she valued
his esteem  how completely she appreciated the
fine points of his character; and he was too mucha
gentleman to remind her by one word or tone of

his disappointment that day in the wood above
Maidenhead.

The evening came to its quiet end at last.
Christabel had scarcely left her piano in the dim
little third room  she had sat there in the faint
light, playing slow sleepy nocturnal and lieder, and
musing, musing sadly, with a faint sick dread of
coming sorrow. She had seen it in her aunt's face.
When the old buhl clock chimed the half-hour after
ten the Major got up and took his leave, bending over
Mrs. Tregonell as he pressed her hand at parting to
murmur : " Remembers with an accent as solemn
as Charles the Martyr's when he spoke to Juxon.

Mrs. Tregonell answered never a word. She had
been pondering and wavering all the evening, but
had come to no fixed conclusion.

She bade the two girls good-night directly the
Major was gone. She told herself that she had the
long tranquil night before her for the resolution
of her doubts. She would sleep upon this vexed
question. But before she had been ten minutes in
her room there came a gentle knock at the door,
and Christabel stole softly to her side.

 Auntie dear, I want to talk to you before you
go to bed, if you are not very tired. May Dormer
go for a little while T'

Dormer, gravest and most discreet of handmaids,
whose name seemed to have been made on purpose
for her, looked at her mistress, and receiving a little
nod, took up her work and crept away. Dormer
was never seen without her needlework. She complained
that there was so little to do for Mrs.
Tregonell that unless she had plenty of plain sewing
she must expire for want of occupation, having long
outlived such frivolity as sweethearts and afternoons
out.

When Dormer was gone, Christabel came to her
aunt's chair, and knelt down beside it just as she
had done at Mount Royal, when she told her of
Angus Harleigh's offer.

'aunt Diana, what has happened, what is
wrong T' she asked, coming at the heart of the question
at once. There was no shadow of doubt in her
mind that something was sorely amiss.

' How do you know that there is anything
wrong T'

I have known it ever since that horrible old
woman  Medusa in a bonnet all over flowers 
pansies instead of snakes  talked about Cupid and
Psyche. And you knew it and made her stop to tell
you all about it. There is some cruel mystery 
something that involves my fate with that of the
actress I saw the other night."

Mrs. Tregonell sat with her hands tightly clasped,
her brows bent. She felt herself taken by storm, as
it were, surprised into decision before she had time
to make up her mind.

"Since you know so much, perhaps you had
better know alV-* she said, gloomily ; and then she
told the story, shaping it as delicately as she could
for a girls ear.

Christabel covered her face with her clasped
hands, and listened without a sigh or a tear. The
pain she felt was too dull and vague as yet for the
relief of tears. The horrible surprise, the sudden
darkening of the dream of her young life, the clouding
over of every hope, these were shapeless horrors
which she could hardly realize at first. Little by
little this serpent would unfold its coils; drop by

drop this poison would steal through her veins, until
its venom filled her heart. He, whom she had
supposed all her own, with whose every thought she
had fancied herself familiar, he, of whose heart she
had believed herself the sole and sovereign mistress,
had been one little year ago the slave of another
loving with so passionate a love that he had not
shrunk from letting all the world know his idolatry.
Yes, all those people who had smiled at her, and
said sweet things to her, and congratulated her on
her engagement, had known all the while that this
lover, of whom she was so proud, was only the castoff
idolater of an actress ; had come to her only when
lifers master-passion was worn threadbare, and had
become a stale and common thing for him. At the
first, womanly pride felt the blow as keenly as
womanly love. To be made a mock of by the man
she had so loved !

Kneeling there in dumb misery at her aunts feet,
answering never a word to that wretched record of
her lover's folly, ChristabeFs thoughts flew back to
that still grey autumn noontide at Pentargon Bay,,
and the words then spoken. Words, which then

VOL. I. s

had only vaguest meaning, now rose out of the
dimness of the past, and stood up in her mind as
if they had been living creatures. He had compared
himself to Tristan  to one who had sinned and
repented  he had spoken of himself as a man
whose life had been more than half lived already.
He had offered himself to her with no fervid passion
with no assured belief in her power to make him
happy. Nay, he had rather forced from her the
confession of her love by his piteous representation
of himself as a man doomed to early death. He
had wrung from her the offer of a lifers devotion.
She had given herself to him almost unmoved.
Never before had her betrothal appeared to her in
this humiliating aspect ; but now, enlightened by the
knowledge of that former love, a love so reckless
and self-sacrificing, it seemed to her that the homage
offered her had been of the coldest  that her
affection had been placidly accepted, rather than
passionately demanded of her.

' Fool, fool, fools she said within herself, bowed
to the dust by this deep humiliation.

 My darling, why don't you speak to me ?" said

Mrs. Tregonell, tenderly, with her arm round the
girl's neck, her face leaning down to touch that
drooping head.

"What can I say? I feel as if my life had
suddenly come to an end, and there were nothing
left for me to do, except just to sit still and remember
what has been'

You mean to break with him ?''

Break with him ! Why he has never been
mine. There is nothing to be broken. It was alla
delusion and a dream. I thought he loved me 
loved me exactly as I loved him  with the one great
and perfect love of a lifetime  and now I know that
he never loved me  how could he after having only
just left off loving this other woman?  if he had left
off loving her. And how could he when she is so
perfectly lovely ? Why should he have ever ceased
to care for her? She had been like his wife, you
say  his wife in all but the name  and all the
world knew it. What must people have thought of
me for stealing away another woman's husband?"

"My dear, the world docs not see it in that
light. She never was really his wife."

s >

She ought to have been' answered Christabel,
resolutely yet with quivering lips. '' If he cared for
her so much as to make himself the world's wonder
for her sake he should have married her ; a man
should not play fast and loose with loves

It is difficult for us to judge' said Mrs.
Tregonellj believing herself moved by the very
spirit of justice,, " we are not women of the world 
we cannot see this matter as the world sees it."

God forbid that I should judge as the world
judges' exclaimed Christabel, lifting her head for
the first time since that story had been told her.
'' That would be a sorry end of your teaching.
What ought I to do ?"

Your own heart must be the arbiter, Christabel.
I made up my mind this afternoon that I would
not seek to influence you one way or the other.
Your own heart must decide."

My own heart ? No ; my heart is too entirely
his  too weakly, fondly, foolishly, devoted to him.
No, I must think of something beyond my foolish
love for him. His honour and mine are at stake.
We must be true to ourselves, he and I. But I

want to know what you thinks Auntie. I want to
know what you would have done in such a case. If,
when you were engaged to his father, you had discovered
that he had been within only a little while"
these last words were spoken with inexpressible
pathos, as if here the heart-wound were deepest 
the lover of another woman  bound to her by ties
which a man of honour should hold sacred  what
would you have done ? Would you have shut your
eyes resolutely upon that past history ? Would you
have made up your mind to forget everything, and
to try to be happy with him ?"

I don't know. Belle," Mrs. Tregonell answered,
helplessly, very anxious to be true and conscientious,
and, if she must needs be guide, to guide the
girl aright through this perilous passage in her life.
It is so difficult at my age to know what one
would have done in one's girlhood. The fires are
all burnt out; the springs that moved one then
are all broken. Judging now, with the dull
deliberation of middle age, I should say it would bea
dangerous thing for any girl to marry a man who
had been notoriously devoted to another woman 

that woman still living, still having power to charm
him. How can you ever be secure of his love ? how
be sure that he would not be lured back to the old
madness ? These women are so full of craft  it is
their profession to tempt men to destruction. You
remember what the Bible says of such ? ' They are
more bitter than death : their feet go down to death:
their steps take hold on hells"'

Don't, Auntie' faltered Christabel. " Yes, I
understand. Yes, he would tire of me and go back
to her very likely. I am not half so lovely, nor
half so fascinating. Or, if he where true to honour
and duty, he would regret her all his life. He
would be always repenting that he had not broken
down all barriers and married her. He would see her
sometimes on the stage, or in the Park, and just the
sight of her face flashing past him would spoil his
happiness. Happiness'' she repeated, bitterly, 'what
happiness? what peace could there be for either
of us ? knowing of that fatal love. I have decided.
Auntie, I shall love Angus all the days of my life,
but I will never marry him."

Mrs. Tregonell clasped the girl in her arms, and

they wept together, one with the slow silent tears
of life that was well-nigh worn out , the other with
youths passionate sobs  sobs that shook the slender
frame.

My beloved you have chosen wisely and wells
said the widow, her heart throbbing with new
hopes  it was not of Angus HamleigFs certain loss
she thought, but of her son Leonard's probable gain 
'you have chosen wisely. I do not believe that you
could ever have been really happy with him. Your
heart would have been consumed with jealous fears 
suspicion would have haunted your life  that evil
woman's influence would have darkened all your days""

'' Don't say another word' pleaded Christabel, in
low hoarse tones ; " I have quite made up my mind.
Nothing can change it."

She did not want to be encouraged or praised;
she did not want comfort or consolation. Even
her aunt's sympathy jarred upon her fretted nerves.
She felt that she must stand alone in her misery,
aloof from all human succour.

Good-nights' she said, bending down to touch
her aunt's forehead, with tremulous lips.

LE SECRET DE POLICHINELLE.

* Won't you stay, dear? Sleep with me to-nights

Sleep T' echoed the girl. ' No, Auntie dear ;
I would rather be in my own room !"

She went away without another word, and went
slowly back to her own room, the pretty little London
bedchamber, bright with new satin-wood furniture
and pale blue cretonne hangings, clouded with
creamy Indian muslin, a bower-like room, with
flowers and books and a miniature piano in a convenient
recess by the fire-place. Here she sat gravely
down before her davenport and unlocked one particular
drawer, a so-called secret drawer, but as
obvious as a secret panel in a melodrama  and took
out Angus Harleigh's letters. The long animated
letters written on thin paper, letters which were a
journal of his thoughts and feelings, almost as fully
recorded as in those voluminous epistles which
Werther despatched to his friend  letters which had
bridged over the distance between Cornwall and
Southern France, and had been the chief delight of
Christabers life through the long slow winter,
making her lover her daily companion.

Slowly, slowly, with tears dropping unnoticed every

now and then she turned over the letters , one by one
now pausing to read a few lines  now a whole
letter. There is no loving folly of which she had not
been guilty with regard to these cherished letters :
she had slept with them under her pillow she had read
them over and over again, had garnered them in a
perfumed desk, and gone back to them after the
lapse of time, had compared them in her own mind
with all the cleverest letters that ever were given to
the world  with Walpole, with Beckford, with Byron,
with Defiant, and Espinasse, Seine, Carter  and
found in them a grace and a charm that surpassed all
these. She had read elegant extracts to her aunt,
who confessed that Mr. Harleigh wrote cleverly,
wittily, picturesquely, poetically, but did not perceive
that immeasurable superiority to all previous letter-writers.
Then came briefer letters, dated from the
Albany  notes dashed off hastily in those happy days
when their lives were spent for the most part together.
Notes containing suggestions for some new
pleasure  appointments  sweet nothings, hardly
worth setting down except as an excuse for writing 
with here and there a longer letter, written after

midnight; a letter in which the writer poured out his
soul to his beloved; enlarging on their conversation of
the day  that happy talk about themselves and love.

Who would think; reading these, that he never
really cared for me, that I was only an after-thought
in his life" she said to herself, bitterly.

Did he write just such letters to Stella Mayne,
I wonder? No ; there was no need for writing 
they were always together''

The candles on her desk had burnt low by the
time her task was done. Faint gleams of morning
stole through the striped blinds, as she sealed the
packet in which she had folded that lengthy history of
Angus Hamleighs courtship  a large square packet,
tied with stout red tape, and sealed in several places.
Her hand hardly faltered as she set her seal upon the
wax : her purpose was so strong.

'' Yes' she said to herself, " I will do what is
best and safest for his honour and for mine'" And
then she knelt by her bed and prayed long and fervently
; and remained upon her knees reading the
Gospel as the night melted away and the morning
sun flooded her room with light.

She did not even attempt to sleep, trusting to
her cold bath for strength against the day's ordeal.
She thought all the time she was dressing of the
task that lay before her  the calm deliberate concealment
of her engagement, with the least possible
pain for the man she loved, and for his ultimate
gain in this world and the next. Was it not
for the welfare of a manes soul that he should do
his duty and repair the wrong that he had done;
rather than that he should conform to the worlds
idea of the fitness of things and make an eminently
respectable marriage ?

Christabel contemplated herself critically in the
glass as she brushed her hair. Her eyelids were
swollen with weeping  her cheeks pallid, her eyes
lustreless, and at this disadvantage she compared
herself with that vivid and sylph-like beauty she had
seen at the Kaleidoscope.

' How could he ever forget her for my sake V
she thought, looking at that sad colourless face, and
falling into the common error that only the most
beautiful women are loved with perfect love, that
perfection of feeling answers to perfection of form

forgetting how the history of life shows that upon
the unlovely also there have been poured treasures
of deepest purest love  that, while beauty charms
and wins all, there is often one, best worth the
winning, who is to be vanquished by some subtler
charm, held by some less obvious chain than
Aphrodite's rosy garlands. Perhaps, if Miss
Courtenay had been a plain woman, skilled in the art
of making the most of small advantages, she would
have had more faith in her own power; but being
a lovely woman who had been so trained and
taught as to think very little of her own beauty, she
was all the more ready to acknowledge the superior
loveliness of a rival.

' Having worshipped that other fairer face, how
could he care for me T* she asked herself; and then,
brooding upon every detail of their betrothal, she
came to the bitter conclusion that Angus had
offered himself to her out of pity  touched by her
too obvious affection for him  love which she had
hardly tried to hide from him, when once he had
told her of his early doom. That storm of pity and
regret which had swept over her heart had annihilated

her womanly pride : she forgot all that
was due to her own dignity, and was only too eager
to offer herself as the companion and consoler of his
brief days. She looked back and remembered her
folly  thinking of herself as a creature caught ina
trap.

No, assuredly, there was but one remedy.

One doubt  one frail straw of hope to which she
might cling  yet remained. That tried, all was
decided. Was this story true  completely and
positively a fact? She had heard so much in society
about baseless scandals  she had been told so
many versions of the same story  as unlike as black
to white or false to true  and she was not going to
take this one bitter fact for granted upon the strength
of any fashionable Medusa who might try to turn
her warm beating heart to stone. Before she accepted
Medusa sentence she would discover for herself
how far this story was true.

' I will give no one any trouble'" she thought :
' I will act for myself, and judge for myself. It
will be the making or marring of three lives."

In her wide charity, in that power to think and

feel for others, which was the highest gift of her rich
sweet soul; Stella Mayne seemed to Christabel as
important a factor in this life-problem as herself or
Angus. She thought of her tenderly picturing her asa
modern Gretchen, tempted by an early and intense
love, much more than by the devils lure of splendour
and jewels  a poor little Gretchen at seventeen and
sixpence a week, living in a London garret, with no
mother to watch and warn, and with wicked old
Martha in plenty to whisper bad advice.

Christabel went down to breakfast as usual. Her
quiet face and manner astonished Mrs. Tregonell,
who had slept very little better than her niece ; but
when the servant came in to ask if she would ride
she refused.

Do, dears pleaded her aunt ; ' a nice long
country ride by Finchley and Hendon would do you
good''

No, Aunt Di  I would rather be at home this
morning'' answered Christabel; so the man departed,
with an order for the carriage at the usual hour in
the afternoon.

There was a letter from Angus  Christabel only

glanced at the opening lines, which told her that he
was to stay at Hillside a few days longer, and
then put the letter in her pocket. Jessie Bridgeman
looked at her curiously  knowing very well
that there was something sorely amiss  but waiting
to be told what this sudden cloud of sorrow
meant.

Christabel went back to her own room directly
after breakfast. Her aunt forbore any attempt at
consolation, knowing it was best to let the girl bear
her grief in her own way.

You will go with me for a drive after luncheon,
dear T' she asked.

Yes, Auntie  but I would rather we went a
little way in the country, if you don't mind, instead
of to the Park."

With all my heart : I have had quite enough
of the Park."

The ' booing, and booing, and booing"' " said
Jessie, *sand the straining ones every nerve to seethe
Princess drive by  only to discover the hume
Hating fact that she is one of the very few 
women in the Park  perhaps the only

one "who can look absolutely respectable without
being a dowdy /

Shall I go to her room and try if I can be of
any comfort to her ?" mused Jessie, as she went upto
her own snug little den on the third floor. "Better
not, perhaps. I like to hug my sorrows. I should
hate any one who thought their prattle could lessen
my pain. She will bear hers best alone, I dare say.
But what can it be ? Not any quarrel with him.
They could hardly quarrel by telegraph or post 
they who are all honey when they are together. It
is some scandal  something that old demon with
the eyebrows said yesterday. I am sure of it  a
talk between two elderly women with closed doors
always means Stands own mischief."

All three ladies went out in the carriage after
luncheon  a dreary, dusty drive, towards Edward
past everlasting bricks and mortar, as it seemed
to Christabel's tired eyes, which gazed at the houses
as if they had been phantoms, so little human
meaning had they for her  so little did she
realize that in each of those brick and plaster
packing-cases human beings lived, and, in their

turn, suffered some such heart-agony as this which
she was enduring to-day.

'that is St. John's Wood up yonder, isn't
it'' she asked, as they passed Carlton Hill,
speaking for almost the first time since they left
Mayfair.

'' Yes."

Isn't it somewhere about there Miss Stella
Mayne lives, the actress we saw the other night ?"
asked Christabel, carelessly.

Her aunt looked at her with intense surprise, 
how could she pronounce that name, and to ask a
frivolous question?

Yes ; she has a lovely house called the Rosary.
Mr. FitzPelham told me about it'' answered Jessie.

Christabel said never a word more as the
carriage rolled on by Cricklewood and the two
Welsh Harps, and turned into the quiet lanes about
Hendon, and so home by the Finchley Road. She
had found out what she wanted to know.

When afternoon tea was served in the little third
drawing-room, where Mrs. TregoncU sat resting
herself after the dust and weariness of the drive,

VOL. I. T

Christabel was missing. Dormer brought a little
note for her mistress.

Miss Courtenay gave me this just before she
went out; ma'am.

* Out ! Has Miss Courtenay gone out T'

' Yes, ma'am ; Daniel got her a cab five minutes
ago."

 To her dressmaker, I suppose' said Mrs. Tree
trying to look indifferent.

 Don't be uneasy about me, Auntie' wrote
Christabel : ' I am going on an errand about which
I made up my mind last night. I may be a little
late for dinner  but as I shall go and return in the
same cab, you may feel sure that I shall be quite
safe. Don't wait dinner for me."

CHAPTER IX.

IS LOVE FOR EVER

The Rosary, St. John's Wood : that was the
address which Christabel had given the cabman.
Had any less distinguished person than Stella
Mayne lived at the Rosary it might have taken the
cabman all the evening to find that particular
house, with no more detailed address as to road
and number. But a brother whip on a rank near
Hamilton Terrace was able to tell ChristabeFs cabman
the way to the Rosary. It was a house at
which hansoms were often wanted at unholy hours
between midnight and sunrise  a house whose
chief hospitality took the form of chablis and
oysters after the play  a house which seldom
questioned poor cabbys claim or went closely into
mileage a house which deserved and commanded
respectful mention on the rank.

The Rosary  yes, that's where Miss Mayne

lives. Beech Tree Road  a low souse with
venders all round  yer can't miss it'

TLe cabman rattled away to Grove End Road,
and thence to the superior quietude and seclusion
of Beech Tree Road, where he drew up at a house
with a glazed entrance. He rang the bell, and
Christabel alighted before the summons was
answered.

Is Miss Mayne at home ?'' she asked a
servant in plain clothes  a servant of unquestionable
respectability.

Yes, ma'am'' he replied, and preceded her
along a corridor, glass-roofed, richly carpeted, and
with a bank of hothouse flowers on either side.

Only at this ultimate moment did Christabel's
courage begin to falter. She felt as if she were
perhaps entering a den of vice. Innocent, guileless
as she was, she had her own vague ideas about
vice  exaggerated as all ignorant ideas are apt to
be. She began to shiver as she walked over the
dark subdued velvet pile of that shadowy corridor.
If she had found Miss Mayne engaged in giving a
masked ball  or last night's supper party only just

finishing  or a party of young men playing blind
hookey, she would hardly have been surprised  not
that she knew anything about masked balls  or
late suppers  or gambling  but that all these would
have come within her vague notions of an evil life.

"He loved hers she said to herself, arguing
against this new terror, " and he could not love a
thoroughly wicked woman."

No, the Gretchen idea  purity fallen, simplicity
led astray  was more natural  but one could
hardly imagine Gretchen in a house of this kind 
this subdued splendour  this all-pervading air of
wealth and luxury.

Miss Courtenay was shown into a small morning-room
 a room which on one side was all window 
opening on to a garden, where some fine old trees
gave an idea of space  and where the foreground
showed a mass of flowers  roses  roses  roses
everywhere  trailing over arches  clustering round
tall iron rods  bush roses  standard roses  dwarf
roses  all shining in the golden light of a westering
sun.

The room was elegantly simple  an escritoire in

the Sherraton style  two or three book-tables
crowded with small volumes in exquisite bindings
vellum creamy calf, brown Russia red edges,
gold edges, painted edges, all the prettiness of
bookbinding  half a dozen low chairs  downy
nests covered with soft tawny Indian silk, with
here and there a brighter patch of colour in the
shape of a plush pillow or an old brocade antimacassar
 voluminous curtains of the same soft
tawny silk, embroidered with, poppies and cornflowers
 a few choice flowers in old Venetian vases
a large peacock-feather fan thrown beside an open
book, upon a low pillow-shaped ottoman.

Christabel gazed round the room in blank surprise
nothing gaudy  nothing vulgar  nothing
that indicated sudden promotion from the garret
to the drawing-room  an air of elegant Luxury, of
supreme fashion in all things  but no glare of
gilding, no discords in form or colour.

Your name, if you please, madam ? said the
servant, a model of decorum in well-brushed black.

Perhaps, you had better take my card. I am
not personally known to Miss Mayne/ answered



Christabel opening her card-case. " Oh V she
exclaimed suddenly, as with a cry of pain.

I beg your pardons said the servant,, alarmed.

' Its nothing. A picture startled me  that was
all. Be good enough to tell Miss Mayne that I
shall be very much obliged to her if she will see
me.

Certainly, madam !" said the man, as he retired
with the card, wondering how a young lady of such
distinguished appearance happened to call upon his
mistress, whose feminine visitors were usually of a
more marked type.

I dare say she's collecting funds for one of their
everlasting churches," thought the butler, ' 'high, low,
or Jack, as I call 'em  'high church, low church, or
John Wesley  ever so many predominating, and
all of 'em equally keen after money. But why did
she almost shriek when she clapt her eyes on Mr.
'Raleigh's portrait, I wonder, just as if she had
seen a scorpions."

Christabel stood motionless where the man left
her, looking at a photograph on a brass easel upon
an old ebony table in the middle of the room.

A cluster of stephanotis in a low Venetian vase
stood in front of that portrait like flowers before a
shrine. It was an exquisitely painted photograph
of Angus Harleigh  Angus at his best and
brightest,, before the flush and glory of youth had
faded from eyes and brow  Angus with a vivacity
of expression which she had never seen in his face
she who had known him only since the fatal
hereditary disease had set its mark upon him.

''Ah!" she sighed "he was happier when he
loved her than he ever was with me."

She stood gazing at that pictured face, her hands
clasped, her heart beating heavily. Everything
confirmed her in her despair  in her iron resolve.
At last, with a long-drawn sigh, she withdrew her
eyes from the picture, and began to explore the
room. No, there was no trace of vulgarity  no
ugly indication of a vicious mind. Christabel
glanced at the open book on the ottoman, half
expecting to find the trail of the serpent there  in
some shameful French novel, the very name of
which she had not been allowed to hear. But the
book was only the last Contemporary Review, open

was but the second volume in his life, abandoned
herself at once to despair*

She sank into one of the low luxurious chairs,
just as the door opened, and Miss Mayne came into
the room.

If she had looked lovely as Psyche, in her classic
drapery, with the emerald butterfly on her shoulder,
she looked no less beautiful in the costly-simplicity
of her home toilet. She wore a sacque-shaped tea-gown
of soft French-grey silk, lined with palest pink
satin, over a petticoat that seemed a mass of cream-coloured
lace. Her only ornaments were three
half-hoop rings  rubies, diamonds, and sapphires 
too large for the slender third finger of her left hand,
and half concealing a thin wedding-ring  and a star-shaped
brooch  one large cat's eye with diamond
rays, which fastened the lace handkerchief at her
throat.

Christabel, quick to observe the woman whose
existence had ruined her life, noted everything, from
the small perfectly-shaped head  shaped for beauty
rather than mental power  to the little arched foot
in its pear-coloured silk stocking, and grey satin

slipper. For the first time in her life she beheld
a woman whose chief business in this world was to
look her loveliest,, at all times and seasons, for
friend or foe  for whom the perfection of costume
was the study and delight of life  who lived and
reigned by the divine right of beauty.

' Pray sit down !" said Miss Mayne, with a
careless wave of her hand  so small  so delicate
and fragile-looking under the lace ruffle ;  I am
quite at a loss to guess to what I am indebted for
the honour of this visit."

She looked at her visitor scrutinizingly with
those dark, too lustrous eyes. A hectic flush
burned in her hollow cheeks. She had heard a good
deal about this Miss Courtenay, of Mount Royal
and Mayfair, and she came prepared to do
battle.

For some moments Christabel was dumb. It
was one thing to have come into this young lioness's
den, and another thing to know what to say to the
lioness. But the straightness and purity of the
girl's purpose upheld her  and her courage hardly
faltered.

I have come to you, Miss Mayne, because I
will not consent to be governed by common report.
I want to know the truth  the whole truth  however
bitter it may be for me  in order that I may
know how to act."

Miss Mayne had expected a much sharper mode
of attack. She had been prepared to hear herself
called scorpion  or viper  the pest of society  a
form of address to which she would have been able
to reply with a startling sharpness. But to bespoken
to thus  gravely, gently, pleadingly, and with
that sweet girlish face looking at her in unspeakable
sorrow  was something for which she had not
prepared herself.

'' You speak to me like a lady  like a good
woman' she said, falteringly. " What is it you
want to know T'

I have been told that Mr. Harleigh  Angus
Harleigh  was once your lover. Is that true ?""

'' True as the stars in heaven  the stars by
which we swore to love each other to the end of
our lives  looking up at them, with our hands
clasped, as we stood on the deck of the steamer

between Dover and Calais. That was our marriage.
I used to think that God saw it, and accepted it 
just as if we had been in church : only it did not
hold water, you see' she added, with a cynical
laugh, which ended in a hard little cough.

He loved you dearly. I can see that by the
lines that he wrote in your books. I ventured to
look at them while I waited for you. Why did he
not marry you*?'

Stella Mayne shrugged her shoulders, and played
with the soft lace of her fichu.

It is not the fashion to marry a girl who
dances in short petticoats, and lives in an attic''
she answered. " Perhaps such a girl might make a
good wife, if a man had the courage to try the
experiment. Such things have been done, I believe;
but most men prefer the safer course. If I had
been clever, I daresay Mr. Harleigh would have
married me ; but I was an ignorant little fool  and
when he came across my path he seemed to me
like an angel of light. I simply worshipped him.
You've no idea how innocent I was in those days.
Not a carefully educated, lady-like innocence, like

yours, don't you know, but absolute ignorance. I
didn't know any wrong; but then I didn't know
any right. You see I am quite candid with you.''

I thank you with all my heart for your truthfulness.
Everything  for you, for me, for Angus 
depends upon our perfect truthfulness. I want todo
what is best  what is wisest  what is right 
not for myself only, but for Angus, for you."

Those lovely liquid eyes looked at her incredulously.


"What," cried Stella Mayne, with her mocking
little laugh  a musical little laugh trained for
comedy, and unconsciously artificial  *do you mean
to tell me that you care a straw what becomes of
me  that it matters to you whether I die in the
gutter where I was born, or pitch myself into the
Regents Canal some night when I have a fit of the
blue devils ?"

"I care very much what becomes of you. I
should not be here if I did not wish to do what is
best for you."

Then you come as my friend, and not as my
enemy ?" said Stella.

' Yes I am here as your friends answered
Christabel, with an effort.

The actress  a creature all impulse and emotion
fell on her knees at Miss Courtenay's feet and
pressed her lips upon the lady's gloved hand.

How good you are/ she exclaimed  ' how
good  how good. I have read of such women 
they swarm in the novels I get from Muche  they
and fiends. There's no middle distance. But I never
believed in them. When the man brought me your
card I thought you had come to blackguard me.'

Christabel shuddered at the coarse word, so out
of harmony with that vellum-bound Shelley, and all
the graciousness of Miss Madness surroundings.

 Forgive me/ said Stella, seeing her disgust. ' I
am horribly vulgar. I never was like that while 
while Angus cared for me.

Why did he leave off caring for you ?" asked
Christabel, looking gravely down at the lovely upturned
face  so exquisite in its fragile sensitive
beauty.

Now Stella Mayne was one of those complex
creatures quite out of the range of a truthful

woman's understanding  a creature who could be
candour itself  could gush and prattle with the
innocent expansiveness of a child, so long as there
was nothing she particularly desired to conceal  yet
who could lie with the same sweet air of child-like
simplicity, when it served her purpose  lie with the
calm stolidity, the invincible assurance, of an untruthful
child. She did not answer Christabe?s
question immediately, but looked at her thoughtfully
for a few seconds, wondering how much of
her history this young lady knew, and to what
extent lying might serve. She had slipped from
her knees to a sitting position on the Persian
hearth rug, her thin, semi-transparent hands clasped
upon her knee, the triple circlet of gems flashing
in the low sunlight.

'why did we party's she asked, shrugging her
shoulders. " I hardly know. Temper, I suppose.
He has not too good a temper, and I  well, I ama
demon when I am ill  and I am often ill.

"You keep his portrait on your tables' said
Christabel.

Keep it ? Yes  and round my necks answered

Stella jerking a gold locket out of her loose gown,
and opening it to show the miniature inside. " I
have worn his picture against my heart ever since
he gave it me  during our first Italian tour. I
shall wear it so when I am dead. Yes  when he
is married, and happy with you, and 1 am lying in
my grave in Hendon Churchyard. Do you know I
have bought and paid for my grave ?"

"Why did you do that?"

Because I wanted to make sure of not being
buried in a cemetery  a city of the dead  streets
and squares and alleys of gravestones. I have
chosen a spot under a great spreading cedar, in a
churchyard that might be a hundred miles from
London  and yet it is quite near here, and handy
for those who will have to take me. I shall not give
any one too much trouble. Perhaps, if you will let
him, Angus may come to my funeral, and drop a
bunch of violets on my coffin."

Why do you talk like that V

Because the end cannot be very far off. Do
you think I look as if I should live to be a grandmother
?"

VOL. I. U

The hectic bloom, the unnatural light in those
lovely eyes the transparent hands,, and purple-tinted
nails, did not, indeed, point to such a conclusion.


If you are really ill why do you go on acting ?"
asked Christabel, gently. " Surely the fatigue and
excitement must be very bad for you.

I hardly know. The fatigue may be killing
me, but the excitement is the only thing that
keeps me alive. Besides, I must live  thirty pounds
a week is a considerations

But  you are not in want of money ?' exclaimed
Christabel. " Mr. Harleigh would never '

Leave me to starves interrupted Stella, hurriedly
j "no, I have plenty of money. While  while
we were happy Mr. Harleigh lavished his money
upon me  she was always absurdly generous  and if
I wanted money now I should have but to hold out
my hand. I have never known the want of money
since I left my attic  four and sixpence a week,
with the use of the kitchen fire, to boil a kettle, or
cook a chop  when my resources rose to a chop 
it was oftener a bloater. Do you know, the other

day , when I was dreadfully ill and they had been
worrying me with invalid turtle, jellies, oysters,
caviare, all kinds of loathsome daintinesses  and
the doctor said I should die if I didn't eat  I
thought perhaps I might get back the old appetite
for bloater and bread and butter  I used to enjoy
a bloater tea so in those old days  but it was no
use  the very smell of the thing almost killed me
the whole house was poisoned with it'

She prattled on, looking up at Christabel with a
confiding smile. The visit had taken quite a
pleasant turn. She had no idea that anything
serious was to come of it. Her quondam lover's
affianced wife had taken it into her head to come
and see what kind of stuff Mr. Harleigh's former
idol was made of  that was all  and the lady's
amiability was making the interview altogether
agreeable.

Yet, in another moment, the pain and sorrow in
Christabel's face showed her and there was something
stronger than frivolous curiosity in the lady's
mind.

' Pray be serious with me," said Christabel.

u3

Remember that the welfare of three people depends
upon my resolution in this matter. It would be easy
for me to say  I will shut my eyes to the past: he has
told me that he loves me  and I will believe him.
But I will not do that. I will not live a life of
suspicion and unrest just for the sweet privilege of
bearing him company, and being called by his name
dear as that thought is to me. No, it shall be
all or nothing. If I cannot have his whole heart
I will have none of it. You confess that you wear
his picture next your heart. Do you still love him?
"Yes  always  always  always answered the
actress, fervently. This at least was no bold-faced
lie  there was truth's divine 'accent here. "There
is no man like him on this earth'' And then in low
impassioned tones she quoted those passionate lines
of Mrs. Browning's : 

There is no one beside thee, and no one above thee ;

Thon stances alone as the nightingale sings ;

And my words, that would praise thee, are impotent things.

And do you believe that he has quite left off
loving you?"

No," answered the actress, looking up at her

with flashing eyes,  I don't believe it. I don't
believe he could after all we have been to each
other. It isn't in human nature to forget such
love as ours''

sand you. believe  if he were free  if he had not
engaged himself to me  perhaps hardly intending it
he would come back to you?"

Yes if he knew how ill I am  if he knew what
the doctor says about me  I believe he would come
back."

And marry you ?" asked Christabel, deadly
pale.

That's as may be' retorted the other, with her
Parisian shrug.

Christabel stood up and laid her clenched hand
on the low draperied mantelpiece, almost as if she
were laying it on an altar to give emphasis to an
oath. 'then he shall come back  then he shall
marry you' she said in a grave earnest voice. " I
will rob no woman of her husband. I will doom
no fellow-creature to lifelong shame !"

'what," cried Stella Mayne, with almost a
shriek, ' you will give him up  for me !"

Yes. He has never belonged to me as lie has
belonged to you  it is no shame for me to renounce
him  grief and pain  yes , grief and pain unspeakable
 but no disgrace. He has sinned and he
must atone for his sin. I will not be the impediment
to your marriage."

But if you were to give him up he might
not marry me : men are so difficult to manages
faltered the actress, aghast at the idea of such a
sacrifice, seeing the whole business in the light of
circumstances unknown to Miss Courtenay.

 Not men with conscience and honours answered
Christabel, with unshaken firmness. I feel very sure
that if Mr. Harleigh were free he would do what
is right. It is only his engagement to me that
hinders his making atonement to you. He has lived
among worldly people who have never reminded
him of his duty  who have blunted his finer
feelings with their hideous worldliness  oh, I know
how worldly women talk  as if there were neither
hell nor heaven, only Belgravia and Mayfair  and
no doubt worldly men are still worse. But he 
he whom I have so loved and honoured  cannot be

without honour and conscience. He shall do what
is just and right'

She looked almost inspired as she stood therewith
pale cheeks and kindling eyes, thinking far
more of that broad principle of justice than of the
fragile emotional creature trembling before her.
This comes of feeding a girl's mind with Shakespeare
and Bacon, Carlyle and Plato, to say
nothing of that still broader and safer guide,
the Gospel.

Just then there was the sound of footsteps
approaching the door  a measured masculine footfall.
The emotional creature flew to the door, opened
it, murmured a few words to some person without,
and closed it, but not before a whiff of Latakia had
been wafted into the flower-scented room. The
footsteps moved away in another direction, and
Christabel was much too absorbed to notice that
faint breath of tobacco.

There's not the least use in your giving him
up'' said Stella, resolutely : " he would never marry
me. You don't know him as well as I do."

"Do I not? I have lived only to study his

character for the best part of a year. I know he
swill do what is justus

Stella Mayne suddenly clasped her hands before
her face and sobbed aloud.

Oh, if I were only good and innocent like you V
she cried, piteously; "how I detest myself as I stand
here before you !  how loathsome  how hateful
I am V'

'No, no," murmured Christabel, soothingly,
*' you are not hateful : it is only impenitent sin
that is hateful. You were led into wrong-doing
because you were ignorant of right  there was no
one to teach you  no one to uphold you. And he
who tempted you is in duty bound to make amends.
Trust me  trust me  it is better for my peace as
well as for yours that he should do his duty. And
now good-by  I have stayed too long already."

Again Stella Mayne fell on her knees and
clasped this divine visitants hand. It seemed to
this weak yet fervid soul almost as if some angel
guest had crossed her threshold. Christabel stooped
and would have kissed the actress's forehead.

' No," she cried, hysterically, " don't kiss

me  don't  you don't know. I should feel like
Judas'

' Good-bye then. Trust me'' And so they
parted.

A tall man, with an iron-grey moustache and
a soldier-like bearing, came out of a little study,
cigarette in hand, as the outer door closed on
Christabel. * Who the deuce is that thoroughbred-looking
girl ?" asked this gentleman. ' Have you got
some of the neighbouring swells to call upon you,
at last ? Why, what's the row, Fishky, you've been
crying ?"

Fishky was the stage-carpenters', dressers' and
supernumeraries' pronunciation of the character
which Miss Mayne acted nightly, and had been
sportively adopted by her intimates as a pet name
for herself.

That lady is Miss Courtenay."

* The lady Harleigh is going to marry ? What
the devil is she doing in this galere ? I hope she
hasn't been making herself unpleasant ?"

She is an angel."

With all my heart. Harleigh is very welcome

to her , so long as he leaves me my dear little
demons answered the soldier , smiling down from
his altitude of six feet two at the sylph-like form
in the Watteau gown.

' Oh how I wish I had never seen your faces
said Stella : " I should be almost a good woman if
there were no such person as you in the worlds

CHAPTER I.

LET ME AND MY PASSIONATE LOVE GO BY/

That second week of July was not altogether peerless
weather. It contained within the brief span of
its seven days one of those sudden and withering
changes which try humanity more than the hardest
winter,, with which ever Transatlantic weather-prophet
threatened our island. The sultry heat
of a tropical Tuesday was followed by the blighting
east wind of a chilly Wednesday; and in the
teeth of that keen east wind, blowing across the
German Ocean, and gathering force among the
Pentland, Angus Harleigh set forth from the
cosy shelter of Hillside, upon a long dayes salmon
fishing.

His old kinswoman health had considerably
improved since his arrival ; but she was not yet so

VOL. II. B

'there's all your ain tackle upstairs in one othe
presses said the old lady ; " yell just find it
ready to your hand."

The offer was tempting  Angus had found the
long summer days pass but slowly in house and
garden  albeit there was a library of good old
classics. He so longed to be hastening back to
Chris abel  found the hours so empty and joyless
without her. He was an ardent fisherman 
loving that leisurely face-to-face contemplation
of Nature which goes with rod and line. The
huntsman sees the landscape flash past him like a

dream of grey wintry beauty  it is no more to him
than a picture in a gallery  he has rarely time to
feel Nature's tranquil charms. Even when he must
needs stand still for a while, he is devoured by
impatience to be scampering off again, and to seethe
world in motion. But the angler has leisure to
steep himself in the atmosphere of hill and streamlet
to take Natures colours into his soul. Every
angler ought to blossom into a landscape painter.
But this salmon fishing was not altogether a dreamy
and contemplative business. Quickness, presence
of mind, and energetic action were needed at some
stages of the sport. The moment came when
Angus found his rod bending under the weight of
a magnificent salmon, and when it seemed a toss up
between landing his fish and being dragged underwater
by him.

Jump inscribed Donald, excitedly, when the
angler's line was nearly expended, ' it's only up to
your neck." So Angus jumped in , and followed
the lightning-swift rush of the salmon down stream,
and then, turning him after some difficulty, had to
follow his prey up stream again, back to the original

B 2

pool,, where he captured him, and broke the top of
his eighteen-foot rod.

Angus clad himself thinly, because the almanac
told him it was summer  he walked far and fast 
overheated himself  waded for hours knee-deep in
the river  his fishing-boots of three seasons ago far
from watertight  ate nothing all day  and went
back to Hillside at dusk, carrying the needs of
pneumonia under his oilskin jacket. Next day he
contrived to crawl about the gardens, reading
Burton" in an idle desultory way that suited so
desultory a book, longing for a letter from Christ-abel,
and sorely tired of his Scottish seclusion. On
the day after he was laid up with a sharp attack
of inflammation of the lungs, attended by his aunt's
experienced old doctor  a shrewd hard-headed
Scotchman, contemporary with Simpson, Gibson,
Ferguson  all the brightest lights in the Caledonian
galaxy  and nursed by one of his aunt's old servants.

While he was in this condition there came a
letter from Christabel, a long letter which he unfolded
with eager trembling hands, looking for joy
and comfort in its pages. But, as he read, his

Yet the letter expressed only tenderness. In
tenderest words his betrothed reminded him of
past wrong-doing and urged upon him the duty of
atonement. If this girl whom he had so passionately
loved a little while ago was from society's
standpoint unworthy to be his wife  it was he
who had made her unworthiness  he who alone
could redeem her from absolute shame and disgrace.
All the world knows that you wronged her, let all
the world know that you are glad to make such
poor amends as may be made for that wrongs
wrote Christabel. " I forgive you all the sorrow you
have brought upon me : it was in a great measure
my own fault. I was too eager to link my life
with yours. I almost thrust myself upon sou. I
will revere and honour you all the days of my life,
if you will do right in this hard crisis of our fate.
Knowing what I know I could never be happy as
your wife : my soul would be wrung with jealous
fears ; I should never feel secure of your love ;

Christabel Courteney'

Angus Harleigh's first impulse was anger Then
came a softer feeling, and he saw all the nobleness
of the womanly instinct that had prompted this
letter : a good woman's profound pity for a fallen
sister; an innocent woman's readiness to see only
the poetical aspect of a guilty love; an unselfish
woman's desire that right should be done, at any
cost to herself.

God bless her V he murmured, and kissed the
letter before he laid it under his pillow.

His next thought was to telegraph immediately
to Christabel. He asked his nurse to bring him a

No ! a thousand times no. I owe no allegiance
to any one but to you. There can be no question
of broken faith with the person of whom you write.
I hold you to your promises''

Scarcely had his feeble fingers scrawled the lines
than he tore up the paper.

I will see the doctor first' he thought. " Am
I a man to claim the fulfilment of a bright girls
promise of marriage ? No, I'll get the doctor's
verdict before I send her a word''

When the old family practitioner had finished
his soundings and questionings, Angus asked him
to stop for a few minutes longer.

You say I'm better this afternoon, and that
you'll get me over this bout," he said, " and I
believe you. But I want you to go a little further
and tell me what you think of my case from a
general point of view."

Humph," muttered the doctor, ' it isn't easy
to say what proportion of your symptoms may be
temporary, and what permanent ; but ye're a

vary shabby pair of lungs at this present writing.
What's your family history ?''

My father died of consumption at thirty."

Humph ! any other relative ?"

My aunt, a girl of nineteen ; my father's
mother, at seven-and-twenty."

Dear, dear, that's no vary lively retrospect.
Is this your first attack of haemorrhage V

Not by three or four''

The good old doctor shook his head.

Ye'll need to take extreme care of yourself,"
he said : " and ye'll no be for spending much of
your life in thee country. Ye might do vary weel
in September and October at Rothsay or in the Isle
of Arran, but I'd recommend ye to winter in the
South."

'' Do you think I shall be a long-lived man ?"

*' My dear sir, that'll depend on care and circumstances
beyond human foresight. I couldn't
conscientiously recommend your life to an Insurance
Office."

*' Do you think that a man in my condition is
justified in marrying V

Do ye want a plain answer ?''
The plainest that you can give me."
Then I tell you frankly that I think the
marriage of a man with a marked consumptive
tendency like yours is a crime  a crying siu
which is inexcusable in the face of modern science
and modern enlightenment, and our advanced
knowledge of Ie mainsprings of life and death.
What, sir , can it be less than a crime to bring into
this world children burdened with an hereditary
curse, destined to a heritage of weakness and pain
bright young minds fettered by diseased bodies
born to perish untimely ? Mr. Harleigh, did ye
ever read a book called ' Ecce Homo ? "

Yes, it is a book of books. I know it by
heart''

Then ye'll may be remainder the writer's
summing up of practical Christianity as a system
of ethics which in its ultimate perfection will result
in the happiness of the human race  even that last
enemy, Death, if not subdued, may be made to keep
his distance, seemly by a due observance of natural
laws  by an unselfish forethought and regard in

Yes , I believe you are rights said Angus, with
a despairing sigh. '' It seems a hard thing for a
man who loves, and is beloved by, the sweetest
among women, to forego even a few brief years of
perfect bliss, and go down lonely to the grave  to
accept this doctrine of renunciation, and count
himself as one dead in life. Yet a year ago I told
myself pretty much what you have told me to-day.
I was tempted from my resolve by a woman's loving
devotion  and now  a crucial point has come  and
I must decide whether to marry or not''

If you love humanity better than you love
yourself, ye'll die a bachelor," said the Scotchman,
gravely, but with infinite pity in his shrewd old
face ; '' ye're asked me for the truth, and I've
even it ye. Truth is often hard."

Angus gave his thin hot hand to the doctor in

token of friendly feeling, and then silently turned
his face to the wall, whereupon the doctor gently
patted him upon the shoulder and left him.

Yes, it was hard. In the bright spring time, his
health wondrously restored by that quiet restful
winter on the shores of the Mediterranean, Angus
had almost believed that he had given his enemy
the slip  that Death's dominion over him was
henceforth to be no more than over the common
ruck of humanity, who, knowing not when or how
the fatal lot may fall from the urn, drop into a
habit of considering themselves immortal, and death
a calamity of which one reads in the newspapers
with only a kindly interest in other people's
mortality. All through the gay London season he
had been so utterly happy, so wonderfully well,
that the insidious disease, which had declared itself
in the past by so many unmistakable symptoms,
seemed to have relaxed its grip upon him. He
began to have faith in an advanced medical science
the power to cure maladies hitherto considered
incurable. That long interval of languid empty
days and nights of placid sleep  the heavy sweetness

of southern air breathing over fields of orange
flowers and violets February roses and carnations,
had brought strength and healing. The foe had
been baffled by the new care which his victim had
taken of an existence that had suddenly become
precious.

This was the hope that had buoyed up Angus
Hamleighs spirits all through the happy springtime
and summer which he had spent in the
company of his betrothed. He had seen the
physician who less than a year before had pronounced
his sentence of doom, and the famous
physician, taking the thing in the light-hearted way
of a man for whom humanity is a collection of
'' cases'' was jocose and congratulatory, full of
wonder at his patients restoration, and taking
credit to himself for having recommended Haeres.
And now the enemy had him by the throat. The
foe, no longer insidiously hinting at his deadly
meaning, held him in the fierce grip of pain and
fever. Such an attack as this, following upon one
summer dayes imprudence, showed but too plainly
by how frail a tie he clung to life  how brief and

how prone to malady must be the remnant of his
days.

Before the post went out he re-read Christabel's
letter smiling mournfully as he read.

'' Poor child V he murmured to himself, " God
bless her for her innocence  God bless her for her
unselfish desire to do right. If she only knew the
truth  but, better that she should be spared the
knowledge of evil. What good end would it serve
if I were to enter upon painful explanations ?"

He had himself propped up with pillows ,and wrote,
in a hand Which he strove to keep from shaking,
the following lines : 

"Dearest! I accept your decree: not for the
reasons which you allege, which are no reasons ;
but for other motives which it would pain me too
much to explain. I have loved yon, I do love you,
better than my own joy or comfort, better than my
own life : and it is simply and wholly on that
account I can resign myself to say, let us in the
future be friends  and friends only.
"Your ever affectionate

Angus Harleigh."

He was so much better next day as to be
able to sit up for an hour or two in the afternoon ;
and during that time he wrote at length to Mrs.
Tregonell, telling her of his illness, and of his conversation
with the Scotch doctor, and the decision at
which he had arrived on the strength of that
medical opinion, and leaving her at liberty to
tell Christabel as much, or as little of this, as she
thought fit.

I know you will do what is best for my
darling's happiness,' he said. ' If I did not believe
this renunciation a sacred duty, and the only means
of saving her from infinite pain in the future,
nothing that she or even you could say about my past
follies would induce me to renounce her. I would
fight that question to the uttermost. But the
other fatal fact is not to be faced, except by a
blind and cowardly selfishness which I dare not
practise."

After this day, the invalid mended slowly, and
old Miss MacPherson, his aunt, being soon quite
restored, Mr. Harleigh telegraphed to his valet to
bring books and other necessaries from his

chambers in the Albany, and to meet him in the
Isle of Arran, where he meant to vegetate for
the next month or two, chartering a yacht
of some kind, and living half on land and half
on sea.

CHAPTER IL

'alas FOR ME THEN,, MY GOOD DAYS ARE Donee

Angus Hamleighs letter came upon Christabel
like a torrent of cold water, as if that bright silvery-arc
which pierces the rock at St. Nectans Sieve
had struck upon her heart with its icy stream,
and chilled it into stone. All through that long
summer day upon which her letter must arrive at
Hillside, she had lived in nervous expectation of a
telegram expressing indignation, remonstrance,
pleading, anger  a savage denial of her right to
renounce her lover  to break her engagement. She
had made up her mind in all good faith. She
meant to go on to the bitter end, in the teeth of
her lover's opposition, to complete her renunciation
in favour of that frail creature who had so solemn
a claim upon Angus Harleigh's honour. She
meant to fight this good fight  but she expected
that the struggle would be hard. Oh, how long

and dismal those summer hours seemed, which she
spent in her own room, trying to read, trying tc
comfort herself with saddest strains of classic
melody, and always and through all listening for the
telegraph boy's knock at the hall door, or for the
sudden stopping of a hansom against the kerb,
bringing home her lover to remonstrate in person,
in defiance of all calculations of time and space.

There was no telegram. She had to wait nearly
twenty-four hours for the slow transit of the mails
from the high latitude of Inverness. And when
she read Angus Hamleighs letter  those few placid
words which so quietly left her free to take her
own way  her heart sank with a dull despair that
was infinitely worse than the keen agonies of the
last few days. The finality of that brief letter 
the willingness to surrender her  the cold indifference,
as it seemed, to her future fate  was the
hardest blow of all. Too surely it confirmed all
those humiliating doubts which had tortured her
since her discovery of that wretched past. He had
never really cared for her. It was she who had
forced him into an avowal of affection by her unions

II. c

scions revelation of love  she who, maidenly in
her ignorance of life and mankind, had been the
wooer rather than the wooed.

'' Thank God that my pride and my duty helped
me to decide'' she said to herself : '' what should I
have done if I had married him and found out
afterwards how weak a hold I had upon his heart
if he had told me one day that he had married
me out of pity''

Christabel told Mrs. Tregonell she had written to
Mr, Harleigh  she spoke of him only as Mr.
Harleigh now  and had received his reply, and
that all was now over between them.

I want you to return his presents for me,
Auntie' she said. ' They are too valuable to be sent
to his chambers while he is away  the diamond
necklace which he gave me on my birthday  just like
that one T saw on the stage  I suppose he thinks
all women have exactly the same ideas and fancies 
the books too  I will put them all together for you
to return'

' He has given you a small library'' said Mrs.
Tregonell. " I will take the things in the carriage.

and see that they are properly delivered. Don't
be afraid, darling. You shall have no trouble
about them. My own dear girl  how brave and
good you are  how wise too. YeS;, Belle,, I am
convinced that you have chosen wisely'' said the
widow, with the glow of honest conviction, for the
woof of self-interest is so cunningly interwoven
with the warp of righteous feeling that very few
of us can tell where the threads cross.

She drew her niece to her heart, and kissed her,
and cried with her a little ; and then said cheeringly,
'sand now tell me, darling, what you would like todo
? We have ever so many engagements for this
week and the next fortnight  but you know they
have been made only for your sake, and if you
don't care about them "

' Care about them ! Oh, Auntie, do you think I
could go into society with this dull aching pain at
my heart ? I feel as if I should never care to see
my fellow-creatures again  except you and Jessie'

"And Leonard said the mother. ' Poor Leonard,
who would go through fire and water for your's

Christabel winced, feeling fretfully that she did

c 2

not want any one to go through fire and water; a
kind of acrobatic performance continually being
volunteered by people who would hesitate at the
loan of five pounds.

' Where shall we go, dear ? Would you not like
to go abroad for the autumn  Switzerland, or
Italy, for instance T' suggested Mrs. Tregonell, with
an idea that three months on the Continent was a
specific in such cases.

No/ said Christabel, shudderingly, remembering
how Angus and his frail first love had been happy
together in Italy  oh, those books, those books,
with their passionate record of past joys, those
burning lines from Byron and Heine, which
expressed such a world of feeling in ten syllables 
 No, I would ever so much rather go back to
Mount Royal."

 My poor child, the place is so associated with
Mr. Harleigh. You would be thinking of him every
hour of the days''

' I shall do that anywhere."

Change of scene would be so much better for
you  travelling  variety."

1

'auntie, you are not strong enough to travel
with comfort to yourself. I am not going to drag you
about for a fanciful alleviation of my sorrow. The
landscape may change but not the mind  I should
think of  the past  just as much on Mont Blanc
as on Willapark. No, dearest, let us go home; let
me go back to the old, old life, as it was before I
saw Mr. Harleigh. Oh, what a child I was in
those dear days, how happy, how happy.

She burst into tears, melted bv the memory of
those placid days, the first tears she had shed
since she received her lover's answer.

"And you will be happy again, dear. Don't
you remember that passage I read to you in 'The
Cantons' a few days ago, in which the wise tenderhearted
father tells his son how small a space one
great sorrow takes in a life, and how triumphantly
the life soars on beyond it ?''

Yes, I remember ; but I didn't believe him then,
and I believe him still less now," answered Christabel,
doggedly.

Major Bree called that afternoon, and found Mrs.
Tregonell alone in the drawing-room.

'' Where is Belle T' lie asked.

' She has gone for a long country ride  I
insisted upon it."

' You were quite right. She was looking as
white as a ghost yesterday when , I just caught
a glimpse of her in the next room. She ran
away like a guilty thing when she saw me. Well,
has this cloud blown over ? Is Harleigh back T

"No; Christabers engagement is broken off.
It has been a great blow, a severe trial ; but now
it is over I am glad : she never could have been
happy with him/

How do you know that V asked the Major,
sharply.

'' I judge him by his antecedents. What could
be expected from a man who had led that kind of
life  a man who so grossly deceived her ?"

"Deceived her? Did she ask him if he had
ever been in love with an actress ? Did she or
you ever interrogate him as to his past life?
Why you did not even question me, or I should
have been obliged to tell you all I knew of his
relations with Miss Mayne."*

You ought to have told me of your own accord.
You should not have waited to be questioned said
Mrs. Tregonellj indignantly.

'why should I stir dirty water? Do you
suppose that every man who makes a good husband
and lives happily with his wife has been spotless
up to the hour of his marriage ? There is a Sturm
ind Drank period in every man's life, depend upon
it. Far better that the tempest should rage before
marriage than-.fter.''''

I can't accept your philosophy, nor could
Christabel. She took the business into her own
hands bravely, nobly. She has cancelled her
engagement, and left Mr. Harleigh free to make
some kind of reparation to this actress persons

Reparation ! to Stella Mayne? Why don't
you know that she is the mistress of Colonel
Luscomb, who has ruined his social and professional
prospects for her sake. Do you mean to say that
old harpy who gave you your information about
Angus did forgive you the epilogue to the play ?"

Not a word' said Mrs. Tregonell, considerably
dashed by this intelligence. ' Eut I don't sec that

this fact alters the case  much. Christabel could
never have been happy or at peace with a man who
had once been devoted to a creature of that class. ''

Would you be surprised to hear that creatures
of that class are flesh and blood; and that they
love us and leave us, and cleave to us and forsake
uSj just like the women in society ?" asked the
Major, surveying her with mild scorn.

She was a good woman, no doubt, and acted
honestly according to her lights ; yet he was angry
with her, believing that she had spoiled two lives
by her incapacity to take a wide and liberal view
of the human comedy.

CHAPTER III.

'grief A FIXED STAR, AND JOY A VANE THAT VEERS."

They went back to the Cornish moors, and the
good old manor-house on the hill above the sea ;
went back to the old life , just the same, in all
outward seeming, as it had been before that fatal
visit which had brought love and sorrow to
Christabel. How lovely the hills looked in the
soft summer light ; how unspeakably fair the sea in
all its glory of sapphire and emerald, and those
deep garnet-coloured patches which show where
the red sea weed lurks below, with its pinnacles of
rock and colonies of will living creatures, gull and
cormorant, basking in the sun. Little Boscastle,
too, gay with the coming and going of many
tourists, the merry music of the guards horn, as the
omnibus came jolting down the hill from Bodmin,
or the coach wound up the hill to Bute; busy
with the bustle of tremendous experiments with

rockets and life-saving apparatus in the soft July-darkness;
noisy with the lowing of cattle and
plaintive tremolo of sheep in the market-place, and
all the rude pleasures of a rural fair; alive with all
manner of sound and movement, and having a general
air of making money too fast for the capability
of investment. The whole place was gorged with
visitors  not the inn only, but every available bedchamber
at post-office, shop, and cottage was filled
with humanity; and the half-dozen or so available
pony-carriages were making the journey to Tintagel
and back three times a day; while the patient investigators
who tramped to St. Nectan's Sieve, without
the faintest idea of who St. Nectan was, or what a
lieve was, or what manner of local curiosity they
were going to see, were legion; all coming back
ravenous to the same cosy inn to elbow one
another in friendly contiguity at the homely table
d'hote, in the yellow light of many candles.

Christabel avoided the village as much as
possible during this gay season. She would have
avoided it just as much had it been the dull
season : the people she shrank from meeting were

not the strange tourists,, but the old gaffers
and goodies who had known her all their lives 
the " uncles and ' aunts''  (in Cornwall uncle
and aunt are a kind of patriarchal title given to
honoured age)  and who might consider themselves
privileged to ask why her wedding was deferred
and when it was to be.

She went with Jessie on long lonely expeditions
by sea and land. She had half a dozen old sailors
who were her slaves, always ready to take her out
in good weather, deeming it their highest privilege
to obey so fair a captain and one who always paid
them handsomely for their labour. They went
often to Trebarwith Sands and sat there in some
sheltered nook, working and reading at peace
resigned to a life that had lost all its brightness
and colour.

' Do you know, Jessie, that I feel like an old
maid of fifty ? said Belle on one of those rare
occasions when she spoke of her own feelings.  It
seems to me as if it were ages since I made up my
mind to live and die unmarried, and to make life,
somehow or other, self-sufficing  as if Randie and

I were both getting old and grey together. For he
is ever so much greyer, the dear thing' she said,
laying her hand lovingly on the honest black head
and grey muzzle. "What a pity that dogs should
grow old so soon, when we are so dependent on
their love. Why are they not like elephants, in
whose lives a decade hardly counts ?''

Oh, Belle, Belle, as if a beautiful woman of
twenty could be dependent on a sheep-dog's affection
when she has all her life before her and all the
Avorld to choose from''

Perhaps you think I could change my lover as
some people change their dogs," said Belle, bitterly,
be deeply attached to a colles this year and next
year be just as devoted to a spaniel. My affections
are not so easily transferable.'

Mrs. Tregonell had told her niece nothing of
Angus Harleigh's final letter to herself. He had
given her freedom to communicate as much or as
little of that letter as she liked to Christabel  and
she had taken the utmost license, and had been altogether
silent about it. What good could it do for
Christabel to hear of his illness. The knowledge

might inspire her to some wild quixotic act: she
might insist upon devoting herself to him  to be his
wife in order that she might be his nurse  and
surely this would be to ruin her life without helping
him to prolong his. The blow had fallen  the
sharpest pain of this sudden sorrow had been suffered.
Time and youth, and Leonardoss faithful love would
bring swift healing. " How I loved and grieved for
his fathers thought Mrs. Tregonell. ' Yet I survived
his loss, and had a peaceful happy life with the best
and kindest of men.''

A peaceful happy life, yes  the English matrons
calm content in a handsome house and a well organized
household  a good stable  velvet gowns 
family diamonds  the worlds respect. But that
first passionate love of youth  the love that is eager
for self-sacrifice, that would welcome beggary  the
love which sees a lover independent of all surrounding
circumstances, worshipping and deifying the man
himself  that sacred flame had been for ever extinguished
in Diana Champernowne's heart before she
met burly broad-shouldered Squire Tregonell at the
county ball.

She wrote to Leonard telling him what had
happened, and that he might now count on the
fulfilment of that hope which they both had
cherished years ago. She asked him to come home
at once, but to be careful that he approached
Christabel only in a friendly and cousinly character,
until there had been ample time for these new
wounds to heal.

' She bears her trouble beautifully, and is all
goodness and devotion to me  for I have been weak
and ailing ever since I came from London  but I
know the trial is very hard for her. The house
would be more cheerful if you were at home. You
might ask one or two of your Oxford friends. No
one goes into the billiard-room now. Mount Royal
is as quiet as a prison. If you do not come soon,
dear boy, I think we shall die of melancholy

Mr. Tregonell did not put himself out of the way
to comply with his loving mother's request. By
the time the widow's letter reached him he had
made his plans for the winter, and was not disposed
to set them aside in order to oblige a lady who was
only a necessary detail in his life. A man must

needs have a mother; and, as mothers go Mrs.
Tregonell had been harmless and inoffensive; but she
was not the kind of person for whom Leonard would
throw over elaborate sporting arrangements, hired
guides, horses, carts,, and all the paraphernalia
needful for Red Ever explorations. As for Christabel,
Mr. Tregonell had not forgiven her for having set
another man in the place which he, her cousin and
boyish lover in a rough tyrannical way, had long
made up his mind to occupy. The fact that she
had broken with the man was a redeeming feature
in the case ; but he was not going into raptures
about it ; nor was he disposed to return to Mount
Royal while she was still moping and regretting
the discarded lover.

 Let her get over the doldrums, and then she
and I may be friends against said Leonard to his
boon companion, Jack Yandeleur, not a friend of
his University days, but an acquaintance picked upon
board a Cunard steamer  son of a half-pay naval
captain, a man who had begun life in a line regiment,
fought in Afghanistan, sold out and lived by
his wits and upon his friends for the last five years.

He lead made himself so useful to Mr. Tregonell by
his superior experience as a traveller his pluck and
knowledge of all kinds of sport, that he had been
able to live at free quarters with that gentleman
from an early stage of their acquaintance.

Thus it was that Christabel was allowed to end
the year in quietness and peace. Every one was
tender and gentle with her, knowing how keenly
she must have suffered. There was much disappointment
among her country friends at the sorry ending
of her engagement ; more especially among those
who had been in London during the season, and
had seen the lovely Cornish debutante in her brief
day of gladness. No one hinted a question to
Christabel herself. The subject of marrying and
giving in marriage was judiciously avoided in her
presence. But Mrs. Tregonell had been questioned,
and had explained briefly that certain painful revelations
concerning Mr. Hamleighs antecedents had
constrained Christabel to give him up. Every one
said it was a pity. Poor Miss Courtenay looked ill
and unhappy. Surely it would have been wiser to
waive all question of antecedents, and to trust to

that sweet girls influence for keeping Mr. Harleigh
straight in the future. " Antecedents, indeed
exclaimed a strong-minded matron, with five
marriageable daughters. ' It is all very well for a
young woman like Miss Courtenay-san only child
with fifteen hundred a year in her own right  to
make a fuss about a young man's antecedents. But
what would become of my five girls if I were to look
at things so closely." Christabel looked at the first
column of the Times supplement daily to see if there
were the advertisement of Angus Harleigh's marriage
with Stella Mayne. She was quite prepared to read
such an announcement. Surely, now that she had
set him free, he would make this act of atonement,
he, in all whose sentiments she had perceived so
nice a sense of honour. But no such advertisement
appeared. It was possible, however, that the marriage
had taken place without any public notification.
Mr. Harleigh might not care to call the
world to witness his reparation. She prayed for
him daily and nightly, praying that he might be led
to do that which was best for his souls welfare 
for his peace here and hereafter  praying that

VOL. II. D

his days, whether few or many, should be made
happy.

There were times when that delicate reticence
which made Angus HamleigVs name a forbidden
sound upon the lips of her friends, was a source of
keenest pain to Christabel. It would have been
painful to her to hear that name lightly spoken, no
doubt; but this dull dead silence was worse. One
day it flashed upon her that if he were to die
nobody would tell her of his death. Kindred and
friends would conspire to keep her uninformed.
After this she read the list of deaths in the Times
as eagerly as she read the marriages, but with an
agony of fear lest that name, as if written in fire,
should leap out upon the page.

At last this painful sense of uncertainty as to the
fate of one who, a few months ago, had been a part
of her life, became unendurable. Pride withheld her
from questioning her aunt or Jessie. She shrank
from seeming small and mean in the sight of her
own sex. She had made her sacrifice of her own
accord, and there was a poverty of character in not
being able to maintain the same Spartan courage to

the end. But from Major Bree, the friend and playfellow
of her childhood, the indulgent companion of
her youth, she could better bear to accept pity  soone
mild afternoon in the beginning of October,
when the Major dropped in at his usual hour for
tea and gossip, she took him to see the chrysanthemums,
in a house on the further side of the lawn ;
and here, having assured herself there was no
gardener within hearing, she took courage to
question him.

' Uncle Oliver's' she began, falteringly, trifling
with the fringed petals of a snowy blossom, " I want
to ask you something'

My dear, I think you must know that there is
nothing in the world I would not do for you."

' I am sure of that : but this is not very difficult.
It is only to answer one or two questions. Everyone
here is very good to me  but they make one
mistake : they think because I have broken forever
 with  Mr. Harleigh, that it can do me no
good to know anything about him  that I can go on
living and being happy, while I am as ignorant of
his fate as if we were inhabitants of different

planets. But they forget that after having been all
the world to me he cannot all at once become
nothing. I have still some faint interest in his fate.
It hurts me like an actual pain not to know whether
he is alive or dead/ she said , with a sudden sob.

My poor pet V murmured the Major, taking her
hand in both his own. " Have you heard nothing
about him since you left London ?"

Not one word. People make believe that there
was never any such person in this worlds

'' They think, it wiser to do so, in the hope you
will forget him.

They might as well hope that I shall become a
blackamoor' said Christabel, scornfully. " You have
more knowledge of the human heart. Uncle Oliver 
and you must know that I shall always  remember
him. Tell me the truth about him just this once,
and I will not mention his name again for a long,
long time. He is not dead, is he ?"

Dead !  no. Belle. What put such a notion into
your head T'

'' Silence always seems like death ; and every one
has kept silence about him.-"

He was ill while lie was in Scotland  a touch of
the old complaint. I heard of him at Plymouth the
other day, from a yachting man who met him in
the Isle of Arran, after his illness  he was all
right then, I believe."

111  and I never knew of it  dangerously ill,
perhaps'

I don't suppose it was anything very bad. He
had been yachting when my Plymouth acquaintance
met him'

He has not married  that person'' faltered
Christabel,

f' What person ?"

Miss Mayne."

Good heavens, no, my dear nor ever will."

But he ought  it is his duty."

My dear child, that is a question which I can
hardly discuss with you. But I may tell you, at least,
that there is an all-sufficient reason why Angus harleigh
would never make such an idiot of himself."

Do you mean that she could never be worthy
of him  that she is irredeemably wicked ?" asked
Christabel.

'' She is not good enough to be any honest man's
wife'

And yet she did not seem wicked : she spoke of
him with such intense feeling'

She seemed  she spoke !" repeated the Major
aghast. " Do you mean to tell me that you have
seen  that you have conversed with her ?"

Yes : when my aunt told me the story which
she heard from Lady Curaberbridge I could not
bring myself to believe it until it was confirmed by
Miss Mayne's own lips. I made up my mind that
I would go and see her  and I went. Was that
wrong V

Very wrong. You ought not to have gone
near her. If you wanted to know more than
common rumour could tell you, you should have
sent me your friend. It was a most unwise act."

' I thought I was doing my duty. I think so
still' said Christabel, looking at him with frank
steadfast eyes. "We are both women. If we
stand far apart it is because Providence has given
me many blessings which were withheld from her. It
is Mr. Harleigh's duty to repair the wrong he has

done. If he does not he must be answerable to his
Maker for the eternal ruin of a souls

"I tell you again, my dear, that you do not
understand the circumstances, and cannot fairly
judge the case. You would have done better to
take an old soldier's advice before you let the
venomous gossip of that malevolent harridan spoil
two lives''

*' I did not allow myself to be governed by Lady
Cumberbridge's gossip. Uncle Oliver. I took
nothing for granted. It was not till I had heard
the truth from Miss Mayne's lips that I took any
decisive step. Mr. Harleigh accepted my resolve
so readily that I can but think it was a welcome
release."

My dear, you went to a queer shop for truth.
If you had only known your way about town a
little better you would have thought twice before
you sacrificed your own happiness in the hope of
making Miss Mayne a respectable member of society
But what's done cannot be undone. There's no use
in crying over spilt milk. I daresay you and Mr.
Harleigh will meet again and make up your quarrel

before we are a year older. In the meantime don't
frets Belle -and don't be afraid that he will ever
marry any one but you, V\\ be answerable for his
constancy.''

The anniversary of ChristabePs betrothal came
round, St. Luke's Day  a grey October day  with a
drizzling West-country rain. She went to church
alone, for her aunt was far from well, and Miss
Bridgeman stayed at home to keep the invalid company
 to read to her and cheer her through the
long dull morning. Perhaps they both felt that
Christabel would rather be alone on this day. She
put on her waterproof coat, took her dog with her,
and started upon that wild lonely walk to the church
in the hollow of the hills. Randie was a beast of
perfect manners, and would lie quietly in the porch
all through the service, waiting for his mistress.

She knelt alone just where they two had knelt
together. There was the humble altar before which
they were to have been married; the rustic shrine
of which they had so often spoken as the fittest
place for a losing union  fuller of tender meaning
than splendid St. George's, with its fine oaken

panelling painted windows and Horatian architecture.
Never at that altar, nor at any other, were
they two to kneel. A little year had held all  her
hopes and fears  her triumphant love  joy beyond
expression  and sadness too deep for tears. She
went over the record as she knelt in the familiar
pew  her lips moving automatically, repeating the
responses  her eyes fixed and tearless.

Then when the service was over she went slowly
wandering in and out among the graves, looking at
the grey slate tablets, with the names of those
whom she had known in life  all at rest now  old
people who had suffered long and patiently before
they died  a fair young girl who had died of consumption,
and whose sufferings had been sharper
than those of age-a sailor who had gone out to a
ship with a rope one desperate night, and had given
his life to save others  all at rest now.

There was no grave being dug to-day. She remembered
how, as she and Angus lingered at the
gate, the dull sound of the earth thrown from the
gravediggers spade had mixed with the joyous
song of the robin perched on the gate. To-day

Grief A FIXED STAR,

there was neither grave digger nor robin  only the
soft drip, drip of the rain on dock and thistle, fern
and briony. She had the churchyard all to herself,
the dog following her about meekly  crawling
over grassy mounds, winding in and out among the
long wet grass.

When I die, if you have the ordering of my
funeral, be sure I am buried in Minster Churchyards

That is what Angus had said to her one summer
morning, when they were sitting on the Maidenhead
coach  and even West-end London, and a London
Park, looked lovely in the clear June light. Little
chance now that she would be called upon to choose
his resting-place  that her hands would fold his
in their last meek attitude of submission to the
universal conqueror.

Perhaps he will spend his life in Italy, where
no one will know his wife's history' thought Chris-abel,
always believing, in spite of Major Bree's
protest, that her old lover would sooner or later
make the one possible atonement for an old sin.
Nobody except the Major had told her how little the
lady deserved that such atonement should be made.

It was Mrs. TregonelFs theory that a well-brought
up young woman should be left in darkest ignorance
of the darker problems of life.

Christabel walked across the hill, and down by narrow
winding ways into the valley, where the river,
swollen and turbid after the late rains, tumbled
noisily over rock and root and bent the long reeds
upon its margin. She crossed the narrow footbridge,
and went slowly through the level fields between two
long lines of hills  a gorge through which, in bleak
weather, the winds blew fiercely. There was another
hill to ascend before she reached the field that led
to Pentargon Bay  half a mile or so of high road
between steep banks and tall unkempt hedges. How
short and easy to climb that hill had seemed to her
in Angus HamleigVs company ! Now she walked
wearily and slowly under the softly falling rain,
wondering where he was, and whether he remembered
this day.

She could recall every word that he had spoken,
and the memory was full of pain ; for in the light
of her new knowledge it seemed to her that all he
had said about his early doom had been an argument

intended to demonstrate to lier why lie dared
not and must not ask lier to be his wife  an
apology and an explanation as it were  and this
apology, this explanation had been made necessary
by her own foolishness  by that fatal forgetfulness
of self-respect which had allowed her love to reveal
itself. And yet, surely that look of rapture which
had shone in his eyes as he clasped her to his
heart, as he accepted the dedication of her young
life, those tender tones, and all the love that had
come afterwards could not have been entirely
falsehood.

I cannot believe that he was a hypocrites she
said, standing where they two had sat side by side
in the sunlight of that lovely day, gazing at the
grey sea, smooth as a lake under the low grey sky.
'' I think he must have loved me  unwillingly,
perhaps  but it was true love while it lasted. He
gave his first and best love to that other  but he
loved me too. If I had dared to believe him  to
trust in my power to keep him. But no ; that
would have been to confirm him in wrong-doing.
It was his duty to marry the girl he wronged'

The thought that her sacrifice had been made to
principle rather than to feeling sustained, her in
this hour as nothing else could have done. If she
could only know where he was, and how he fared,
and what he meant to do with his future life, she
could be happier, she thought.

Luncheon was over when Christabel went back
to Mount Royal ; but as Mrs. Tregonell was too
ill to take anything beyond a cup of beef-tea in
her own room this fact was of no consequence.
The mistress of Mount Royal had been declining
visibly since her return to Cornwall ; Mr. Treherne,
the family doctor, told Christabel there was no
cause for alarm, but he hinted also that her aunt
was not likely to be a long-lived woman.

I'm afraid she worries herself' he said ; " she
is too anxious about that scapegrace son of hers.'"'

Leonard is very cruel," answered Christabel ;
he lets weeks and even months go by without
writing, and that makes his poor mother miserable.
She is perpetually worrying herself about imaginary
evils  storm and shipwreck, runaway horses, explosions
on steamboats.'

If she would but remember a vulgar adage,
that 'Nought is never in danger" muttered
the doctor with whom Leonard had been no
favourite.

And then she has frightful dreams about him/
said Christabel.

My dear Miss Courtenay, I know all about it,"
answered Mr. Treherne ; "your dear aunt is justin
that comfortable position of life in which a
woman must worry herself about something or
other. ' Man was born to trouble don't you know,
my dear ? The people who haven't real cares are
constrained to invent sham ones. Look at King
Solomon  did you ever read any book that breathes
such intense melancholy in every line as that little
work of his called Ecclesiastes. Solomon was
living in the lap of luxury when he wrote that
little book, and very likely hadn't a trouble in this
world. However, imaginary cares can kill as well
as the hardest realities, so you must try to keep up
your aunt's spirits, and at the same time be sure
that she doesn't over-exert herself. She has a
weak heart  what we call a tired heart."

' Does that mean heart-disease V faltered Chris-abel,
with a despairing look.

'Wellj my dear, it doesn't mean a healthy
heart. It is not organic disease  nothing wrong
with the valves  no fear of excruciating pains 
but it's a rather risky condition of life, and needs
care'

'' I will be careful' murmured the girl, with
white lips, as the awful shadow of a grief, hardly
thought of till this moment, fell darkly across her
joyless horizon.

Her aunt, her adopted mother  mother in all
sweetest care and love and thoughtful culture 
might too soon be taken from her. Then indeed,
and then only, could she know what it was to be
alone. Keenly, bitterly, she thought how little
during the last dismal months she had valued that
love  almost as old as her life  and how the loss
of a newer love had made the world desolate for
her, life without meaning or purpose. She
remembered how little more than a year ago 
before the coming of Angus Harleigh  her aunt
and she had been all the world to each other, that

tender mother-love all sufficing to fill her life
with interest and delight.

In the face of this new fear that sacred love
resumed its old place in her mind. Not for an
hour not for a moment of the days to come should
her care or her affection slacken. Not for a
moment should the image of him whom she had
loved and renounced come between her and her
duty to her aunt.

CHAPTER IV.

E AVILL HAVE HIS

From this time Christabel brightened and grew
more like her old self. Mrs. Tregonell told herself
that the sharp sorrow was gradually wearing itself
out. No girl with such happy surroundings as
ChristabeFs could go on being unhappy for ever.
Her own spirits improved with Christabels increasing
brightness and the old house began to lose its
dismal air. Until now the widows conscience had
been ill at ease  she had been perpetually arguing
with herself that she had done right  trying ta
stifle doubts that continually renewed themselves.
But now she told herself that the time of sorrow
was paste and that her wisdom would be justified
by its fruits. She had no suspicion that her niece
was striving of set purpose to be cheerful  that
these smiles and this bright girlish talk were the
result of painful effort duty triumphing over sorrow,

VOL. IT. E

Mount Royal that winter seemed one of the
brightest, most hospitable houses in the neighbourhood.
There were no parties ; Mrs. TregonelFs
delicate health was a reason against that. But
there was generally some one staying in the house
some nice girl, whose vivacious talk and whose
new music helped to beguile the mother from sad
thoughts about her absent son  from wearying
doubts as to the fulfilment of her plans for the
future. There were people coming and going ; old
friends driving twenty miles to luncheon,, and sometimes
persuaded to stay to dinner ; nearer neighbours
walking three miles or so to afternoon tea.
The cheery rector of Trevalga and his family,
friends of twenty years standing, were frequent
guests. Mrs. Tregonell was not allowed to excite
herself, but she was never allowed to be dull.
Christabel and Jessie watched her with unwavering
attention  anticipating every wish, preventing every
fatigue. A weak and tired heart might hold out
for a long time under such tender treatment.

But early in March there came an unexpected
trial, in the shape of a sudden and great joy.

Leonard who bad never learnt the rudiments of
forethought and consideration for others, drove upto
the house one afternoon in a hired chaise from
Launceston, just as twilight was creeping over the
hills and dashed unannounced into the room
where his mother and the two girls were sitting
at tea.

' Who is this T' gasped Mrs. Tregonell starting
up from her low easy chair, as the tall broad-shouldered
man, bearded, bronzed, clad in a thick
grey coat and big white muffler, stood before her;
and then with a shriek she cried, " My son ! My
son !' and fell upon his breast.

When he placed her in her chair a minute later
she was almost fainting, and it was some moments
before she recovered speech. Christabel and Jessie
thought the shock would have killed her.

Oh, Leonard ! how could you T' murmured
Christabel, reproachfully.

How could I do what ?"

Come home without one word of notice, knowing
your mother's delicate health.''

I thought it would be a pleasant surprise for

E 2



her. Besides I hadn't made up my mind to come
straight home till two o'clock to-day. I had half
a mind to take a week in town first, before I came
to this God-forsaken hole. You stare at me as if
I had no right to be here at all, Belle'

Leonard, my boy, my boy," faltered the mother,
with pale lips, looking up adoring at the bearded
face, so weather-beaten, so hardened and altered from
the fresh lines of youth. " If you knew how I have
longed for this hour. I have had such fears. You
have been in such perilous places  among savages
in all kinds of danger. Often and often I have
dreamt that I saw you dead."

Upon my soul, this is a lively welcome," said
Leonard.

My dearest, I dont want to be dismal," said
Mrs. Tregonell, with a faint hysterical laugh. Her
heart was beating tumultuously, the hands that
clasped her son's were cold and damp. " My soul
is full of joy. How changed you are dear ! You
look as if you had gone through great hardships."

Life in the Rockies isn't all child's play, mother,
but we've had a jolly time of it, on the whole.

America is a magnificent country. I feel deuced
sorry to come home  except for the pleasure of
seeing you and Belle. Lets have a look at you,
Belles and sec if you are as much changed as I am.
Step into the light, young lady."

He drew her into the full broad light of a heaped
wood and coal fire. There was very little daylight
in the room. The tapestry curtains fell low
over the heavily motioned Tudor windows, and
inside the tapestry there was a screen of soft
muslin.

*' I have not been shooting moose and skunk, or
living in a tents said Christabel, with a forced laugh.
She wanted to be amiable to her cousin  wished
even to like him, but it went against the grain.
She wondered if he had always been as hateful as
this. " You canst expect to find much difference
in me after three years vegetation in Cornwall."

But you've not been vegetating all the time,"
said Leonard, looking her over as coolly as if she
had been a horse. ' You have had a season in
London. I saw your name in some of the gossiping
journals, when I was last at Montreal. You

wore a pink gown at Sundown. You were one of
the prettiest girls at the Royal Fancy Fair. You
wore white and tea roses at the Marlborough
House garden party. You have been shining in
high places,, Mistress Belle. I hope it has not
spoiled you for a country life."

I love the country better than ever. I can
vouch for that."

And you have grown ever so much handsomer
since I saw you last. I can vouch for that'
answered her cousin with his free and easy air.
How d'ye do, Miss Bridgeman ?" he said holding
out two fingers to his mother's companion, whose
presence he had until this moment ignored.

Jessie remembered Thackeray advice, and gave
the squire one finger in return for his two.

You're not altered' he said, looking at her
with a steady stare. 'Youre the hard-wearing
sort, warranted fast colour."

'* Give Leonard some tea, Jessie said !Mrs.
Tregonell. " Vm. sure you would like some tea ?"
looking lovingly at the tall figure, the hard handsome
face.

' Fd rather have a brandy-and-soda/ answered
Leonard carelessly, "but I don't mind a cup of
tea presently, when I've been and had a look round
the stables and kennels''

Oh, Leonard ! surely not yet T' said Mrs.
Tregonell.

Not yet ! Why Fve been in the house ten
minutes, and you may suppose I want to know how
my hunters have been getting on in the last three
years, and whether the colt Nicholls bred is good
for anything. Til just take a hurried look round
and be back again slick.''

Mrs. Tregonell sighed and submitted. What
could she do but submit to a son who had had his
own way and followed his own pleasure ever since
he could run alone ; nay, had roared and protested
loudly at every attack upon his liberty when he
was still in the invertebrate jelly-fish stage of existence,
carried at full-length in his nurses arms, with
his face turned to the ceiling, perpetually contemplating
that flat white view of indoor existence which
must needs have a depressing influence upon the
meditations of infancy. The mothers of spirited

youths have to fulfil their mission-which is for the
most part submission.

How well he looks \" she said, fondly, when the
squire had hurried out of the room ; " and how he
has broadened and filled out.-*

Jessie Bridgeman thought within herself that he
was quite broad enough before he went to America,
and that this filling-out process had hardly improved
him, but she held her peace.

He looks very stronger said Christabel. " I
could fancy Hercules just such a man. I wonder
whether he has brought home any lions hides, and
if he will have one made into a shooting jacket.
Dear, dearest Auntie, she went on, kneeling by
the widows chair, " I hope you are quite happy
now. I hope your cup of bliss is full."

I am very happy, sweet one ; but the cup is not
full yet. I hope it may be before I die  full to
overflowing, and that I shall be able to say, ' Lord,
let me depart in peace with a glad and grateful
heart'

Leonard came back from the stables in a rather
gloomy mood. His hunters did not look as well

as he expected;, and the new colt was weak and
weedy. "Nicholls ought to have known better
than to breed such a thing, but I suppose heed say,
like the man in Tristan Shandy, that it wasn't his
fault," grumbled Mr. Tregonell, as he seated
himself in front of the fire, with his feet on the
brass fender. He wore clump-soled boots and a
rough heather-mixture shooting suit, with knickerbockers
and coarse stockings, and his whole aspect
was " sporting.'' Christabel thought of some one
else who had sat before the same hearth in the
peaceful twilight hour, and wondered if the spiritual
differences between these two men were as wide as
those of manner and outward seeming. She recalled
the exquisite refinement of that other man, the
refinement of the man who is a born dandy, who,
under the most adverse circumstances, compelled to
wear old clothes and to defy fashion, would yet be
always elegant and refined of aspect. She remembered
that outward grace which seemed the natural
indication of a poetical mind  a grace which never
degenerated into effeminacy, a refinement which
never approached the feeble or the lackadaisical.

Mr.Tregonell stretched his large limbs before the
blaze and made himself comfortable in the spacious
plush-covered chair , throwing back his dark head
upon a crewe] anti-macassar, which was a work of
art almost as worthy of notice as a water-colour
painting, so exquisitely had the flowers been copied
from Nature by the patient gentlewoman.

"This is rather more comfortable than the Rockies/

he said,, as he stirred his tea, with big broad hands,

scratched and scarred with hard service. " Mount

Royal isnH half a bad place for two or three

months in the year. But I suppose you mean to

go to London after Easter ? Now Belle has tasted

blood she'll be all agog for a second plunge.

Sundown will be uncommonly jolly this year's"'

No, we are not going to town this season's

Why not ? Hard up spent all the dollars ?'

No, but I done think Belle would care about it."

That's bosh. Come, now, Belle, you want to go

of course," said Mr. Tregonell, turning to his cousin.

No, Leonard, that kind of thing is all very well

for once in a lifetime. I suppose every woman

wants to know what the great world is like  but

one season must resemble another,, I should think :
just like Boscastle Fair which I used to fancy
so lovely when I was a child;, till I began to understand
that it was exactly the same every year, and
that it was just possible for one to outgrow the
idea of its delightfulness/

That isn't true about London though. There is
always something new  new clubs, new theatres,
new actors, new race-meetings, new horses, new
people. I vote for May and June in Bolton
Rowe's

 I don't think your dear mother's health would
be equal to London, this year, Leonard," said
Christabel, gravely.

She was angry with this beloved and only son
for not having seen the change in his mother's
appearance  for talking so loudly and so lightly,
as if there were nothing to be thought of in life
except his own pleasure.

What, old lady, are you under the weather ?''
he asked, turning to survey his mother with a
critical air.

This was his American manner of inquiring after

her health. Mrs. Tregonell when the meaning of
the phrase had been explained to her, confessed
herself an invalid, for whom the placid monotony
of rural life was much safer than the dissipation of
a London season.

Oh, very wells said Leonard with a shrug;
' then you and Belle must stop at home and take
care of each other  and I can have six weeks in
London en gar con. It won't be worth while to
open the house in Bolton Kow  Id rather stop at
an hotel.''''

*' But you won't leave me directly after your
return, Leonard'

*' No, no, of course not. Not till after Easter.
Easter's three weeks ahead of us. You'll be tired
enough of me by that times

Tired of you ! After three years' absence ?

'' Weil, you must have got accustomed to doing
without me, don't you know," said Leonard, with
charming frankness. " When a man has been three
years away he can't hurt his friend's feelings much
if he dies abroad. They've learnt how easy it is
to get along without him."

'' Leonard ! how can you say such cruel things ?"
expostulated his mother, with tears in her eyes. The
very mention of death, as among the possibilities
of existence, scared her.

'' There's nothing cruel in it, ma'am; its only
common sense' answered Leonard. " Three years.
Well, it's a jolly long time, isn't it ? and I dare say
to you, in this sleepy hollow of a place, it seemed
precious long. But for fellows who are knocking*
about the world  as Poker Vandeleur and I were 
time spins by pretty fast, I can tell you. I'll
hoist in some more sap  another cup of tea, if you
please. Miss Bridgeman," added Leonard, handing
in his empty cup.  It's uncommonly good stuff.
Oh! here's old Randie  come here, Bandied."

Randie, clutched unceremoniously by the tail,
and drawn over the hearth rug, like any inanimate
chattel, remonstrated with a growl and a snap. He
had never been over-fond of the master of Mount
Royal, and absence had not made his heart grow
fonder.

His temper hasn't improved," muttered Leonard
pushing the dog away with his foot.

' His temper is always lovely when lie's kindly
treated' said Christabelj making room for the dog
in her low armchair, whereupon Eandie insinuated
himself into that soft silken nest, and looked fondly
up at his mistress with his honest brown eyes.

You should let me give you a Pomeranian
instead of that ungainly beast'' said Leonard.

No, thanks. Never any other dog while Randie
lives. Randie is a person, and he and I have a
hundred ideas in common. I don't want a toy dog
a dog that is only meant for shower"'

Pomerania are clever enough for anybody,
and they are worth looking at. I wouldn't waste my
affection upon an ugly dog any more than I would
on an ugly woman's

"Randie is handsome in my eyes," said Christabel
caressing the sheep-dog's grey muzzle.

I'm through," said Mr. Tregonell, putting down
his cup.

He affected Yankee phrases, and spoke with a
Yankee twang. America and the Americans had
suited him, " down to the ground," as he called it.
Their decisive rapidity, that go-a head spirit which

charged life with a kind of mental electricity  made
life ever so much better worth living than in the
dull sleepy old world where every one was content
with the existing condition of things and only
desired to retain present advantages. Leonard loved
sport and adventure, action, variety. He was a
tyrant, and yet a democrat. He was quite willing
to live on familiar term with grooms and gamekeepers
 but not on equal terms. He must always
be master. As much good fellowship as they
pleased  but they must all knuckle under to him.
He had been the noisy young autocrat of the stable-yard
and the saddle-room when he was still in Eton
jackets. He lived on the easiest terms with the
guides and assistants of his American travels, but
he took care to make them feel that he was their
employer and; in his own language, "the biggest boss
they were ever likely to have to deal with."-' He
paid them lavishly, and gave himself the airs of a
Prince  Prince Henry in the wild Falstaffian days,
before the charge of a kingdom taught him to be
grave, yet with but too little of Henry's gallant
spirit and generous instincts.

Three years' travel, in Australia and America,
had not exercised a refining influence upon Leonard
TregonelFs character or manners. Blind as the
mother's love might be, she had insight enough to
perceive this, and she acknowledged the fact to
herself sadly. There are travellers and travellers :
some in whom a wild free life awakens the very spirit
of poetry itself  whom unrestrained intercourse with
Nature elevates to Natures grander level  some
whose mental power deepens and widens in the
solitude of forest or mountain, whose noblest instincts
are awakened by loneliness that seems to
bring them nearer God. But Leonard Tregonell
was not a traveller of this type. Away from the
restraints of civilization  the conventional refinements
and smoothing down of a rough character 
his nature coarsened and hardened. His love of
killing wild and beautiful things grew into a passion.
He lived chiefly to hunt and to slay, and
had no touch of pity for those gracious creatures
which looked at their slaughterer reproachfully,
with dim pathetic eyes  wide with a wild surprise
at man's cruelty. Constant intercourse with men

coarser and more ignorant than himself dragged
him down little by little to a lower grade than he
had been born to occupy. In all the time that he
had been away he had hardly ever opened a book
Great books had been written. Poets, historians,
philosophers, theologians had given the fruits of
their meditations and their researches to the world,
but never an hour had Mr. Tregonell devoted to
the study of human progress, to the onward march
of human thought. When he was within reach of
newspapers he read them industriously, and learnt
from a stray paragraph how some great scientific
discovery in science, some brilliant success in art,
had been the talk of the hour ; but neither art nor
science interested him. The only papers which he
cared about were the sporting papers.

His travels for the most part had been in wild
lonely regions, but even in the short intervals that
he had spent in cities he had shunned all intellectual
amusements. He had heard neither concerts
nor lectures, and had only affected the lowest forms
of dramatic art. Most of his nights had been spent
in bar-rooms or groceries, playing faro, monte,

VOL. II. F

poker, euchre and falling in pleasantly with whatever
might be the most popular form of gambling in that
particular city.

And now he had come back to Mount Royal,
having sown his wild oats , and improved himself
mentally and physically, as it was supposed by the
outside world, by extensive travel ; and he was
henceforward to reign in his father's place, a popular
country gentleman, honourable and honoured, useful
in his generation, a friend to rich and poor.

Nobody had any cause for complaint against him
during the first few weeks after his return. If his
manners were rough and coarse, his language larded
with American slang, his conduct was unobjectionable.
He was affectionate to his mother, attentive
in his free and easy way to Christabel, civil to the
old servants, and friendly to old friends. He made
considerable alterations in the stables, bought and
sold and swopped horses, engaged new underlings,
acted in all out-of-door arrangements as if the
place were entirely his own, albeit his mother's life-interest
in the estate gave her the custody of everything.
But his mother was too full of gladness at

his return to object to anything that he did. She
opened her purse-strings freely,, although his tour
had been a costly business. Her income had
accumulated in the less expensive period of his boyhood,
and she could afford to indulge his fancies.

He went about with Major Bree, looking up old
acquaintances, riding over every acre of the estate 
lands which stretched far away towards Launceston
on one side, towards Bodmin on the other. He
held forth largely to the Major on the pettiness and
narrowness of an English landscape as compared
with that vast continent in which the rivers are as
seas and the forests rank and gloomy wildernesses
reaching to the trackless and unknown. Sometimes
Christabel was their companion in these long
rides, mounted on the thoroughbred which Mrs.
Tregonell gave heron that last too-happy birthday.
The long rides in the sweet soft April air brought
health and brightness back to her pale cheeks. She
was so anxious to look well and happy for her
aunts sake, to cheer the widows fading life; but,
oh ! the unutterable sadness of that ever-present
thought of the aftertime, that unanswerable question

vas

to what was to become of her own empty days
when this dear friend was gone.

Happy as Leonard seemed at Mount Royal in
the society of his mother and his cousin he did not
forego his idea of a month or so in London. He
went up to town soon after Easter took rooms at
an hotel near the Haymarket, and gave himself upto
a round of metropolitan pleasures under the
guidance of Captain Vandeleur, who had made the
initiation of provincial and inexperienced youth a
kind of profession. He had a neat way of finding
out exactly how much money a young man had
to dispose of, present or contingent, and put him
through it in the quickest possible time and at the
pleasantness pace ; but he knew by experience that
Leonard had his own ideas about money, and was
as keen as experience itself. He would pay the
current rate for his pleasures, and no more ; and he
had a prudential horror of Jews, post-obits, and all
engagements likely to damage his future enjoyment
of his estate. He was fond of play, but he did
not go m the way of losing large sums   ponies''
not 'monies'' were his favourite animals  and

he did not care about playing against his chosen
friend.

I like to have you on my side Poker he said
amiably when the captain proposed a devilled bone
and a hand at ecarte after the play. " You're a good
deal too clever for a comfortable antagonist. You
jDlay ecarte with your other young friends, Poker,
and I'll be your partner at whist'

Captain Vandeleur, who by this time was tolerably
familiar with the workings of his friend's
mind never again suggested those quiet encounters
of skill which must inevitably have resulted to his
advantage,, had Leonard been weak enough to accept
the challenge. To have pressed the question would
have been to avow himself a sharper. He had won
money from his friend at blind hookey ; but then at
blind hookey all men are equal  and Leonard had
accepted the decree of fate ; but he was not the
kind of man to let another man get the better of him
in a series of transactions. He was not brilliant, but
he was shrewd and keen and had long ago made up
his mind to get fair value for his money. If he
allowed Jack Vandeleur to travel at his expense, or

dine and drink daily at his hotel, it was not because
Leonard was weakly generous , but because Jack's
company was worth the money. He would not
have paid for a pint of wine for a man who was
dull, or a bore. At Mount Royal, of course, he
was obliged now and then to entertain bores. It
was an incident in his position as a leading man in
the county  but here in London he was free to
please himself, and to give the cold shoulder to
uncongenial acquaintance.

Gay as town was, Mr. Tregonell soon tired of it
upon this particular occasion. After Epsom and
Ascot his enjoyment began to wane. He had
made a round of the theatres  he had dined and
supped, and played a good many nights at those
clubs which he and his friends most affected. He
had spent three evenings watching a great billiard
match, and he found that his thoughts went back
to Mount Royal, and to those he had left there  to
Christabel, who had been very kind and sweet to
him since his home-coming; who had done much
to make home delightful to him  riding with him,
playing and singing to him, playing billiards with

him , listening to his stories of travel  interested
or seeming interested,, in every detail of that wild
free life. Leonard did not know that Christabel
had done all this for her aunt's sake in the
endeavour to keep the prodigal at home, knowing
how the mother's peace and gladness depended on
the conduct of her son.

And now, in the midst of London dissipations,
Leonard yearned for that girlish companionship.
It was dull enough, no doubt, that calm and domestic
life under the old roof tree; but it had been pleasant
to him, and he had not wearied of it half so quickly
as of this fret and fume, and wear and tear of London
amusements. Leonard began to think that his
natural bent Alas towards domesticity, and that, as
Beliefs husband  there could be no doubt that
she would accept him when the time came for
asking her  he would shine as a very estimable
character, just as his father had shone before him.
He had questioned his mother searchingly as
to Belle's engagement to Mr. Angus Harleigh, and
was inclined to be retrospectively jealous, and to
hate that unknown rival with a fierce hatred; nor

did he fail to blame his mother for her folly in
bringing such a man to Mount Royal.

How could I suppose that Belle would fall in
love with him ?'' asked Mrs. Tregonell, meekly. ' I
knew how attached she was to you."*'

Attached ? yes ; but that kind of attachment
means so little. She had known me all her life. I
was nobody in her estimation  no more than the
chairs and tables  and this man was a novelty ;
and agaiuj what has a girl to do in such an
out-of-the-way place as this but fall in love with
the first comer; it is almost the only amusement
open to her. You ought to have known better
than to have invited that fellow here mother; you
knew that I meant to marry Belle. You ought to
have guarded her for me  kept off dangerous
rivals. Instead of that you must needs go out of
your way to get that fellow heres

You ought to have come home sooner
Leonard. 

That's nonsense. I was enjoying my life
where I was. How could I suppose you would be
such a fool ? '

Don't say such hard things, Leonard. Think
how lonely my life was. The invitation to Mr.
Harleigh was not a new idea ; I had asked hirii
half a dozen times before. I wanted to see him
and know him for his father's sakes

His father's sake !  a man whom you loved
better than ever you loved my father, I dare say."

' No, Leonard, that is not true.

You think not, perhaps, now my father is
dead ; but I dare say while he was alive you were
always regretting that other man. Nothing exalts
a man so much in a woman's mind as his dying.
Look at the affection of widows as compared with
that of wives

Mrs. Tregonell strove her hardest to convince her
son that his cousins affections were now free 
that it was his business to win her heart : but
Leonard complained that his mother had spoiled
his chances  that all the freshness of Christabcrs
feelings must have been worn off in an engagement
that had lasted nearly a year.

' Shell have me fast enough, I daresay, he said,
with his easy, confident air  that calm masculine

consciousness of superiority, as of one who talks of
an altogether inferior creature; "all the faster,
perhaps, on account of having made a fiasco of her
first engagement. A girl doesn't like to be
pointed at as jilt or jilted. But I shall always
feel uncomfortable about this fellow, Harleigh. I
shall never be able quite to believe in my wife."

Leonard, how can you talk like that, you who
know ChristabePs high principles."

Yes, but I wanted to be sure that she had
never cared for any one but me ; and you have
spoiled my chances of that."

He stayed little more than a month in London,
going back to Mount Koyal soon after Ascot, and
while the June roses were still in their glory. Brief
as his absence had been, even his careless eye could
see that his mother had changed for the worse since
their parting. The hollow cheek had grown
hollower, the languid eye more languid, the hand
that clung so fondly to his broad, brown palm, was
thinner, and more waxen of hue.

His mother welcomed him with warmest love.
My dearest one," she said, tenderly, "this is an

unexpected delight. It is so good of you to come
back to me so soon. I want to have you with me,
dear, as much as possible  now.''

Why, mother ?'' he asked, kindly, for a dull
pain in his breast seemed to answer to these words
of hers.

'' Because I do not think it will be for long. I
am very weak, dear. Life seems to be slipping away
from me ; but there is no pain, no terror. I feel as
if I were being gently carried along a slow gliding
stream to some sheltered haven, which I can
picture to myself, although I have never seen it.
I have only one care, Leonard, one anxiety,
and that is for your future happiness. I want
your life to be full of joy, dearest, and I want it
to be a good life, like your father's''

Yes, he was a good old buffer, wasn't he ?"
said Leonard. " Everybody about here speaks well
of him ; but then, I daresay that's because he had
plenty of money, and wasn't afraid to spend it, and
was an easy master, and all that sort of thing,
don't you know. That's a kind of goodness which
isn't very difficult for a man to practise. 

Your father was a Christian, Leonard  a
sound, practical, Christian, and he did his duty in
every phase of life," answered the widow, half
proudly, half reproachfully.

No doubt. All I say is, that its uncommonly
easy to be a Christian under such circumstances."

Your circumstances will be as easy, I trust,
Leonard, and your surroundings no less happy, if you
win your cousin for your wife. And I feel sure
you will win her. Ask her soon, dear  ask her
very soon  that I may see you married to her before
I die."

You think shell say yes, if I do ? I don't
want to precipitate matters, and get snubbed for
my pains.''''

I think she will say yes. She must know how
my heart is set upon this marriage. It has been
the dream of my life."

Despite his self-assurance  his fixed opinion as to
his own personal and social value  Leonard Trego-
nell hesitated a little at asking that question which
must certainly be one of the most solemn inquiries
of a man's life. His cousin had been all kindness

and sweetness to him since his return ; yet in his
inmost heart he knew that her regard for him
was at best of a calm cousinly quality. He knew
this, but he told himself that if she were only
willing to accept him as her husband, the rest must
follow. It would be his business to see that she
was a good wife, and in time she would grow fonder
of him, no doubt. He meant to be an indulgent
husband. He would be very proud of her beauty,
grace, accomplishments. There was no man among
his acquaintance who could boast of such a charming
wife. She should have her own way in everything :
of course, so long as her way did not run counter
to his. She would be mistress of one of the finest
places in Cornwall, the house in which she had
been reared, and which she loved with that foolish
affection which cats, women, and other inferior
animals feel for familiar habitations. Altogether, as
Mr. Tregonell told himself, in his simple and
expressive language, she would have a very good
time, and it would be hard lines if she were not
grateful, and did not take kindly to him. Yet he
hesitated considerably before putting the crucial

question ; and at last took the leap hurriedly, and
not too judiciously, one lovely June morning, when
he and Christabel had gone for a long ride alone.
They were not in the habit of riding alone, and
Major Bree was to have been their companion upon
this particular morning, but he had sent at the last
moment to excuse himself, on account of a touch of
sciatica. They rode early, leaving Mount Royal
soon after eight, so as to escape the meridian sun.
The world was still fresh and dewy as they rode
slowly up the hill, and then down again into the
lanes leading towards Camelford ; and there was that
exquisite feeling of purity in the atmosphere which
wears off as the day grows older.

 My mother is looking rather seedy, Belle, don't
you think / he began.

' She is looking very ill, Leonard. She has
been ill for a long time. God grant we may keep
her with us a few years yet, but I am full of fear
about her. I go to her room every morning with
an aching heart, dreading what the night may have
brought. Thank God, you came home when you did.
It would have been cruel to stay away longer.'

'' That's very good in you, Belle  uncommonly
good  to talk about cruelty, when you must know
that it was your fault I stayed away so long'

My fault ? What had I to do with it'

' Everything. I should have been home a year
and a half ago  home last Christmas twelvemonth.
I had made all my plans with that intention, for I
was slightly home-sick in those days  didn't relish
the idea of three thousand miles of everlasting wet
between me and those I loved  and I was comines
the Big Drink as fast as a Cunard could bring
me, when I got mother's letter telling me of your
engagement. Then I coiled up, and made up my
mind to stay in America till I'd done some big
licks in the sporting line."

Why should that have influenced you ?" Chris-abel
asked, coldly.

'' Why ? Confound it ! Belle, you know that
without asking. You must know that it wouldn't be
over-pleasant for me to be living at Mount Royal
while you and your lover were spooning about the
place. You don't suppose I could quite have
stomached that, do you  to sec another man making

love to the girl I always meant to marry ?  for you
knows Belle, I always did mean it. When you were
in pinafores T made up my mind that you were the
future Mrs. Tregonell.''

You did me a great honour" said Belle, with
an icy smile, ' and I suppose I ought to be very
proud to hear it  now. Perhaps, if you had told me
your intention while I was in pinafores I might
have grown up with a due appreciation of your
goodness. But you see, as you never said anything
about it, my life took another bent"'

Don't chaff, Belle'" exclaimed Leonard, ' Vm
in earnest. I was hideously savage when I heard
that you had got yourself engaged to a man whom
you'd only known a week or two  a man who had

led a racket life in London and Paris "

 Stop," cried Christabel, turning upon him with
flashing eyes, " I forbid you to speak of him.
What right have you to mention his name to me ? I
have suffered enough, but that is an impertinence
I will not endure. If you are going to say another
word about him I'll ride back to Mount Royal as
fast as my horse can carry me."

'sand get spilt on the way. Why what a
spitfire you are Belle. I had no idea there was
such a spice of the devil in you/ said Leonard,
somewhat abashed by this rebuff. " Well I'll hold
my tongue about him in future. Vd much rather
talk about you and me, and our prospects. What is
to become of you , Belle, when the poor mother
goes ? You and the doctor have both made up your
minds that she's not long for this world. For my
own part, Fm not such a croaker, and Fve known
many a creaking door hanging a precious long time
on its hinges. Still, it's well to be prepared for the
worst. Where is your life to be spent, Belle, when
the mater has sent in her checks ?''

Heaven knows, answered Christabel, tears
welling up in her eyes, as she turned her head
from the questioner. ' My life will be little worth
living when she is gone  but I daresay I shall goon
living, all the same. Sorrow takes such a longtime
to kill any one. I suppose Jessie and I will
go on the Continent, and travel from place to place,
trying to forget the old dear life among new scenes
and new people. '

VOL. II. G

And nicely you will get yourself talked about
said Leonard, with that unhesitating brutality which
his friends called frankness   a young and handsome
woman, without any male relative wandering
about the Continent''

I shall have Jessie."

A paid companion  a vast protection she would
be to you  about as much as a Pomeranian dog, ora
poll parrot."

Then I can stay in England," answered
Christabel, indifferently. " It will matter very little
where I live."

' Come, Belles said Leonard, in a friendly, comfortable
tone, laying his broad strong hand on her
horse's neck, as they rode slowly side by side up the
narrow road, between hedges filled with honeysuckle
and eglantine, " this is flying in the face of Providence,
which has made you young and handsome, and
an heiress, in order that you might get the most out
of life. Is a young woman's life to come to an end
all at once because an elderly woman dies ? That's
rank nonsense. That's the kind of way widows
talk in their first edition of crape and caps. But

they don't mean it , my dear; or say they think
they mean it, they never hold by it. That kind of
widow is always a wife again before the second year
of her widowhood is over. And to hear you  not
quite one-and-twenty, and as fit as a fid  in the
very zenith of your beauty's said Leonard, hastily
correcting the horsey turn of his compliment, 
to hear you talk in that despairing way is too provoking.
Come, Belle, be rational. Why should
you go wandering about Switzerland and Italy with
a shrewish little old maid like Jessie Bridgeman 
when  when you can stay at Mount Royal and be
its mistress. I always meant you to be my wife.
Belle, and I still mean it  in spite of bygones

'you are very good  very forgiving," said
Christabel, with most irritating placidity, ' but
unfortunately I never meant to be your wife then
and I don't mean it now''

In plain words, you reject me ?"

If you intend this for an offer, most decidedly'
answered Christabel, as firm as a rock. '' Come,
Leonard, don't look so angry ; let us be friends and
cousins  almost brother and sister  as we haven

9.

been in all the years that are gone. Let ns unite in
the endeavour to make jour dear mother's life
happy  so happy, that she may grow strong and well
again  restored by perfect freedom from care. If
you and I were to quarrel she would be miserable.
We must be good friends always  if it were only
for her sake."

That's all very well, Christabel, but a man's
feelings are not so entirely within his control as
you seem to suppose. Do you think I shall ever
forget how you threw me over for a fellow you had
only known a week or so  and now, when I tell
you how, from my boyhood, I have relied upon your
being my wife  always kept you in my mind as
the one only woman who was to bear my name, and
sit at the head of my table, you coolly inform me
that it can never be? You would rather go wandering
about the world with a hired companion "

' Jessie is not a hired companion  she is my very
dear friend''

You choose to call her so  but she came to
Mount Royal in answer to an advertisement, and my
mother pays her wages, just like the housemaids.

You would rather roam about with Jessie Bridgeman,
getting yourself talked about at every table devote
in Europe  a prey for every Captain Decease, or
Loosefishj on the Continent  than you would be
my wife, and mistress of Mount Royale''

Because nearly a year ago I made up my mind
never to be any manes wife, Leonard'' answered
Christabel, gravely. "1 should hate myself if I were
to depart from that resolves

"You mean that when you broke with Mr.
Harleigh you did not think there was any one in
the world good enough to stand in his shoes' said
Leonard, savagely. ' And for the sake of a man who
turned out so badly that you were obliged to chuck
him up, you refuse a fellow who has loved you all
his life''

Christabel turned her horse's head, and went
homewards at a sharp trot, leaving Leonard, discomfited,
in the middle of the lane. He had nothing
to do but to trot meekly after her, afraid to go too
fast, lest he should urge her horse to a bolt, and
managing at last to overtake her at the bottom of
a hill.

"Do find some grass somewhere, so that we
may get a canter' she said; and her cousin
knew that there was to be no more conversation
that morning.

*BUT HERE IS ONE WHO LOVES YOU AS OF Old'

After this Leonard sulked, and the aspect of
home life at Mount Koyal became cloudy and
troubled. He was not absolutely uncivil to his
cousin, but he was deeply resentful, and he showed
his resentment in various petty ways  descending
so low as to give an occasional sly kick to Randie.
He was grumpy in his intercourse with his mother ;
he took every opportunity of being rude to Miss
Bridgeman ; he sneered at all their womanly
occupations, their charities, their church going. That
domestic sunshine which had so gladdened the
widows heart, was gone for ever, as it seemed.
Her son now snatched at every occasion for getting
away from home. He dined at Bodmin one night
at Launceston, another. He had friends to meet
at Plymouth, and dined and slept at the " Duke of
Cornwallis He came home bringing worse devils

in the way of ill-temper and rudeness  than
those which he had taken away with him. He no
longer pretended the faintest interest in ChristabeFs
playing  confessing frankly that all classical compositions
especially those of Beethoven, suggested to
him that far-famed melody which was fatal to the
traditional cow. He no longer offered to make hera
fine billiard-player.  No woman ever could play
billiards he said, contemptuously   they have
neither eye nor wrist ; they know nothing about
strengths; and always handle their cue as if it was
Moses's rod and was going to turn into a snake and
bite 'em.

Mrs. Tregonell was not slow to guess the cause
of her sons changed humour. She was too intensely
anxious for the fulfilment of this chief desire
of her soul not to be painfully conscious of failure.
She had urged Leonard to speak soon  and he had
spoken  with disastrous result. She had seen the
angry cloud upon her sons brow when he came
home from that tete-astute ride with Christabel.
She feared to question him for it was her rash
counsel, perhaps, which had brought this evil result

to pass. Yet she could not hold her peace for ever.
So one evening, when Jessie and Christalel were
dining at Trevalga Rectory, and Mrs. Tregonell
was enjoying the sole privilege of her sons company,
she ventured to approach the subject.

 How altered ' you have been lately''  lately,
meaning for at least a month  in your manner to
your cousin , Leonard'' she said, with a feeble
attempt to speak lightly, her voice tremulous with
suppressed emotion. " Has she offended you in anyway
? You and she used to be so very sweet to
each others

Yes, she was all honey when I first came home,
wasn't she, mother?" returned Leonard, nursing his
boot, and frowning at the lamp on the low table by
Mrs. TregonelFs chair. ''All hypocrisy  rank humbug
 that's what it was. She is still bewailing that
fellow whom you brought here  and, mark my
words, shell marry him sooner or later. She threw
him over in a fit of temper, and pride, and jealousy;
and when she finds she canst live without him she'll
take some means of bringing him back to her. It
was all your doing, mother. You spoiled my

BUT HERE IS ONE WHO

chances when you brought your old sweethearts
son into this house. I done think you could have
had much respect for my dead father when you
invited that man to Mount Royal'

Mrs. TregonelFs mild look of reproach might
have touched the hardest heart; but it was lost on
Leonard who sat scowling at the lamp, and did not
once meet his mother's eyes.

'- It is not kind of you to say that; Leonard'
she said gently ; ' you ought to know that I was
a true and loving wife to your father, and that
I have always honoured his memory, as a true
wife should. He knew that I was interested in
Angus Harleigh's career, and he never resented
that feeling. I am sorry your cousin has rejected
you  more sorry than even you yourself can be, I
believe  for your marriage has been the dream of
my life. But we cannot control fate. Are you
really fond of her, dear?"

Fond of her ? A great deal too fond  foolishly
 ignominiously fond of her  so fond that I am
beginning to detest her''

' Don't despair then, Leonard. Let this first

refusal count for nothing. Only be patient, and
gentle with her  not cold and rude , as you have
been lately .

Its easy to talks said Leonard, contemptuously.
" But do you suppose I can feel very kindly
towards a girl who refused me as coolly as if I had
been asking her to dance, and who let me see at
the same time that she is still passionately in love
with Angus Harleigh. You should have seen how
she blazed out at me when I mentioned his name 
her eyes taming  her cheeks first crimson and
then deadly pale. That's what love means. And,
even if she were willing to be my wife tomorrow,
she would never give me such love as that. Curse
her," muttered the lover between his clenched
teeth ; " I didn't know how fond I was of her till
she refused me  and now, I could crawl at her
feet, and sue to her as a palavering Irish beggar sues
for alms, cringing and fawning, and flattering and
lying  and yet in my heart of hearts I should be
savage with her all the time, knowing that she will
never care for me as she cared for that other
fellow."

Leonard if you knew how it pains me to hear
you talk like that's said Mrs. TregonelL "It makes
me fearful of your impetuous self-willed nature's

Self-will be ! something V growled

Leonard. "Did you ever know a man who cultivated
anybody else's will? Would you have me
pretend to be better than I am  tell you that I can
feel all affection for the girl who preferred the first
stranger who came in her way to the playfellow and
companion of her childhood ?'

If you had been a little less tormenting, a little
less exacting with her in those days Leonard I
think she would have remembered you more tenderly
said Mrs. Tregonell.

If you are going to lecture me about what I was
as a boy wed better cut the conversations retorted
Leonard. " FU go and practise the spot-stroke for
half an hour,, while you take your after-dinner
nap."*

Nos dear, don-'t go away. I don't feel in the least
inclined for sleep. I had no idea of lecturing you,
Leonard, believe me ; only I cannot help regretting,
as you do, that Christabel should not be more attached

to you. But I feel very sure that, if you are patient,
she will come to think differently by-and-by."

Didn't you tell me to ask her  and quickly ?'

*' Yes, that was because I was impatient. Life
seemed slipping away from me  and I was so eager
to be secure of my dear boy's happiness. Let us
try different tactics, Leo. Take things quietly fora
little  behave to your cousin just as if there had
been nothing of this kind between you  and who
knows what may happen."

1 know of one thing that may and will happen
next October, unless the lady changes her tune'
answered Leonard, sulkily.

What is that ?"

' I shall go to South America  do a little
mountaineering in the Equatorial Andes  enjoy a
little life in Valparaiso, Truxillo  Lord knows
where ! Fve done North America, from Canada to
Frisco, and now I shall do the Southey

you would not be so cruel as to leave
me to die in my loneliness ; for I think, dear, you
must know that I have not long t live''

Come, mother, I believe you fancy yourself ever

SO much worse tliau you really are. This jog-trot,
monotonous life of yours would breed vapours in the
liveliest person. Besides if you should be ill while
T am away, you'll have your niece, whom you love
as a daughter  and perhaps your nieces husband,
this dear Angus of yours  to take care of your's

You are very hard upon me, Leonard  and yet,
I went against my conscience for your sake. I let
Christabel break with her lover. I said never one
word in his favour, although I must have known in
my heart that they would both be miserable. I had
your interest at heart more than theirs  I thought,
here is a chance for my boy." "

You were very considerate  a day after the
fair. Don't you think it would have been better
to be wise before the event, and not to have invited
that coxcomb to Mount Royal 1"

He came again and again to the charge, always
with fresh bitterness. He could not forgive his
mother for this involuntary wrong which she had
done to him.

After this he went off to the solitude of the
billiard-room, and a leisurely series of experiments

upon the spot-stroke. It was his only idea of a
contemplative evening.

He was no less sullen and gloomy in his manner
to Christabel next morning at breakfast, for all his
mother had said to him overnight. He answered
his cousin in monosyllables, and was rude to
Eandie  wondered that his mother should allow
dogs in her dining-room  albeit Dandies manners
were far superior to his own.

Later in the morning, when Christabel and her
aunt were alone, the girl crept to her favourite
place beside Mrs. Tregonell's chair, and with her
folded arms resting on the cushioned elbow, looked
up lovingly at the widow's grave, sad face.

Auntie, dearest, you know so well how fondly
I love you, that I am sure you won't think me any
less loving and true, if I ask you to let me leave you
for a little while. Let me go away somewhere with
Jessie, to some quiet German town, where I can
improve myself in music, and where she and I
can lead a hard-working, studious life, just like a
couple of Girton girls. You remember, last year
you suggested that we should travel, and I refused

your offer, thinking that I should be happier at
home ; but now I feel the need of a change."

' And you would leave me, now that my health is
broken, and that I am so dependent on your love 1''
said Mrs. Tregonell, with mild reproachfulness.

Christabel bent down to kiss the thin, white
hand that lay on the cushion near her  anxious
to hide the tears that sprang quickly to her
eyes.

You have Leonard," she faltered. '' You are
happy, are you not, dearest, now Leonard is at
home again."

 At home  yes, I thank God that my son is
under my roof once more. But how long may he
stay at home? How much do I have of his company
-  in and out all day  anywhere but at my side 
making every possible excuse for leaving me ? He
has begun, already, to talk of going to South
America in the autumn. Poor boy, he is restless
and unhappy ; and I know the reason. You must
know it too, Belle. It is your fault. You have
spoiled the dream of my life."

Auntie, is this generous; is this fair ?" pleaded

Christabel, with her head still bent over the pale
wasted hand.

It is natural at least answered the widow,
impetuously. * Why cannot you care for my boy,
why cannot you understand and value his devotion?
It is not an idle fancy  born of a few weeks'
acquaintance  not the last new caprice of a battered
roue, who offers his worn-out heart to you when
other women have done with it. Leonardoss is the
love of long years  the love of a fresh unspoiled
nature. I know that he has not Angus Ham-heights
refinement of manner  he is not so clever 
so imaginative  but of what value is such surface
refinement when the manes inner nature is coarse
and profligate. A man who has lived among impure
women must have become coarse ; there must be
deterioration, ruin, for a manes nature in such a life
as that's' continued Mrs. Tregonell, passionately,
her resentment against Angus Harleigh kindling
as she thought how he had ousted her son. 'Why
should you not value my boy's love'' she asked
again. " What is there wanting in him that you
should treat him so contemptuously ? He is young,

VOL. II. H

handsome, brave  owner of this place of which you
are so fond. Your marriage with him would bring
the Champernowne estate together again. Everybody
was sorry to see it divided. It would bring
together two of the oldest and best names in the
county. You might call your eldest son Cham-personne
Tregonell.-'

'' Don't;, Auntie,, don't go on like that's entreated
Christabelj piteously :  if you only knew how little
such arguments influence me :  the glories of our
rank and state are shadows not substantial things"*
What difference do names and lands make in the
happiness of a life ? If Angus Harleigh had been
a ploughman's son like Burns  nameless  penniless
only just himself, I should have loved him exactly
the same. Dearest, these are the things in which
we cannot be governed by other people's wisdom.
Our hearts choose for us ; in spite of us. I have
been obliged to think seriously of life since Leonard
and I had that unlucky conversation the other day
He told you about it, perhaps ?'' ,

He told me that you refused him''
As I would have refused any other man, Auntie.

I have made up my mind to live and die unmarried.
It is the only tribute I can offer to one I loved so
wells

'' And who proved so unworthy of your loves
said Mrs. Tregonellj moodily.

Do not speak of him if you cannot speak
kindly. You once loved his father,, but you seem
to have forgotten that. Let me go away for a
little while, Auntie  a few months only if you like.
My presence in this house only does harm. Leonard
is angry with me  and you are angry for his sake.
We are all unhappy now  nobody talks freely  or
laughs  or takes life pleasantly. We all feel constrained
and miserable. Let me go, dear. When
I am gone you and Leonard can be happy together''


No, BellCj we cannot. You have spoiled his
life. You have broken his heart's

smiled a little contemptuously at the
mother's wailing. ' Hearts are not so easily
broken,'' she said, " Leonardoss least of all. He is
angry because for the first time in his life he finds
himself thwarted. He wants to marry me and I

h2

don't want to marry him. Do you remember how
angry he was when he wanted to go out shooting,
at eleven years of age, and you refused him a gun.
He moped and fretted for a week, and you were
quite as unhappy as he was. It is almost the first
thing I remember about him. When he found you
were quite firm in your refusal, he left ofP sulking,
and reconciled himself to the inevitable. He will
do just the same about this refusal of mine  when
I am out of his sight. But my presence here
irritates him.'

Christabel, if you leave me I shall know that
you have never loved me,' said Mrs. Tregonell, with
sudden vehemence. " You must know that I am
dying  very slowly, perhaps  a wearisome decay
for those who can only watch and wait, and bear
with me till I am dead. But I know and feel that
I am dying. This trouble will hasten my end, and
instead of dying in peace, with the assurance of my
boy's happy future  with the knowledge that he will
have a virtuous and loving wife, a wife of my own
training, to guide him and influence him for good 
I shall die miserable, fearing that he may fall into

evil hands and that evil days may come upon him.
I know how impetuous, how impulsive he is ; how
easily governed through his feelings, how little able
to rule himself by hard common-sense. And you,
who have known him all your life  who know the
best and worst of him  you can be so indifferent to
his happiness, Christabel. How can I believe, in the
face of this, that you ever loved me, his mother ?"

I have loved you as my mother's replied the
girl, with her arms round her aunts neck, her lips
pressed against that pale thin cheek. " I love you
better than any one in this world. If God would
spare you for years to come, and we could live
always together, and be all in all to each other as
we have been, I think I could be quite happy.
Yes, I could feel as if there were nothing wanting
in this life. But I cannot marry a man I do not
love, whom I never can loves

'she would take you on trust, Belles murmured
the mother, imploringly; "he would be content with
duty and good faith. I know how true and loyal
you are, dearest, and that you would be a perfect
wife. Love would come afterwards*"

Will it make you happier if I don't go away,
Auntie ?'' asked Christabel, gently.

Much happier'"

Then I will stay ; and Leonard may be as rude
to me as he likes ; he may do anything disagreeable,
except kick Ran die ; and I will not murmur. But
you and I must never talk of him as we have talked
to-day : it can do no goods

After this came much kissing and hugging, and
a few tears ; and it was agreed that Christabel should
forego her idea of six months study of classical
music at the famous conservatoire at Leipsic.

She and Jessie had made all their plans before
she spoke to her aunt ; and when she informed
Miss Bridgeman that she had given way to Mrs.
TregonelFs wish, and had abandoned all idea of
Germany, that strong-minded young woman expressed
herself most unreservedly.

"You are a fool ! she exclaimed. "No doubt
that's an outrageous remark from a person in my
position to an heiress like you ; but I can't help it.
You are a fool  a yielding, self abrogating fool !
If you stay here you will marry that man. There

is 110 escape possible for you. Your aunt has made
up her mind about it. She will worry you till you
give your consent, and then you will be miserable
ever after wards. 

I shall do nothing of the kind. I wonder that
you can think me so weak."

If you are weak enough to stay, you will be
weak enough to do the other things retorted
Jessie.

How can I go when my aunt looks at me with
those sad eyes, dying eyes  they are so changed
since last year  and implores me to stop? I
thought you loved her, Jessie T'

I do love her, with a fond and grateful affection.
She was my first friend outside my own.
home ; she is my benefactress. But I have to
think of your welfare, Christabel  your welfare in
this world and the world to come. Both will be
in danger if you stay here and marry Leonard
Tregonell."

I am going to stay here ; and I am not going
to marry Leonard. Will that assurance satisfy
you? One would think I had no will of my owns'

You have not the will to withstand your aunt.
She parted you and Mr. Harleigh; and she will
marry you to her sons

' The parting was my act' said Christabel.

It was your aunt who brought it about. Had
she been true and loyal there would have been
no such parting. If you had only trusted to mein
that crisis, I think I might have saved you
some sorrow ; but what's done cannot be undone."


There are some cases in which a woman must
judge for herself' Christabel replied,, coldly.

A woman yes  a woman who has had some
experience of life : but not a girl, who knows
nothing of the hard real world and its temptations,
difficulties, struggles. Don't let us talk of it anymore.
I cannot trust myself to speak when I
remember how shamefully he was treated."

Christabel stared in amazement. The calm,
practical Miss Bridgeman spoke with a passionate
vehemence which took the girl's breath away; and
yet, in her heart of hearts, Christabel was grateful
to her for this sudden flash of anger.

I did not know you liked him so much  that
you were so sorry for him/ she faltered.

"Then you ought to have known, if you ever took
the trouble to remember how good he always was
to me, how sympathetic, how tolerant of my company
when it was forced upon him day after day,
how seemingly unconscious of my plainness and
dowdiness. Why there was not a present he gave
me which did not show the most thoughtful study
of my tastes and fancies. I never look at one of
his gifts  I was not obliged to fling his offerings
back in his face as you were  without wondering
that a fine gentleman could be so full of small
charities and delicate courtesy. He was like one
of those wits and courtiers one reads of in Burnet
not spotless, like Tennyson's Arthur  but the
very essence of refinement and good feeling. God
bless him ! wherever he is''

' You are very odd sometimes, Jessie," said
Christabel, kissing her friend, "but you have a
noble heart''

There was a marked change in Leonard's conduct
when he and his cousin met in the drawing-room

before dinner. He had been absent at luncheon
on a trout-fishing expedition ; but there had
been time since his return for a long conversation
between him and his mother. She had told him
how his sullen temper had almost driven Christabel
from the house and how she had been only induced
to stay by an appeal to her affection. This evening
he was all amiability and tried to make his peace
with Landis , who received his caresses with a stolid
forbearance rather than with gratification. It was
easier to make friends with Christabel than with
the dog , for she wished to be kind to her cousin on
his mother's account.

That evening the reign of domestic peace seemed
to be renewed. There were no thunder-clouds in the
atmosphere. Leonard strolled about the lawn
with his mother and Christabel, looking at the
roses,, and planning where a few more choice trees
might yet be added to the collection. Mrs.
TregonelFs walks now rarely went beyond this broad
velvet lawn, or the shrubberies that bordered it.
She drove to church on Sundays, but she had left
off visiting that involved long drives though she

professed herself delighted to see her friends. She
did not want the house to become dull and gloomy
for Leonard. She even insisted that there should
be a garden party on Christabel's twenty-first
birthday ; and she was delighted when some of the
old friends who came to Mount Royal that day
insinuated their congratulations, in a tentative
manner,, upon Miss Courtenay's impending engagement
to her cousin.

There is nothing definitely settled she told
Mrs. St. Aubyn, ' but I have every hope that it
will be so. Leonard adores hers"*

And it would be a much more suitable match
for her than the others said Mrs. St. Aubyn, a
commonplace matron of irreproachable lineage :
it would be so nice for you to have her settled
near you. Would they live at Mount Royal T'

Of course. Where else should my son live butin
his father's house T

'but it is your house."

Do you think I should allow my life-interest
in the place to stand in the way of Leonard's
enjoyment of it' exclaimed Mrs. Tregonell. "I

should be proud to take the second place in his
house  proud to see his young wife at the head of
his table'

That is all very well in theory, but I have
never seen it work out well in fact' said the
Hector of Trevalga, who made a third in the little
group seated on the edge of the wide lawn, where
sportive youth was playing tennis, in half a dozen
courts, to the enlivening strains of a military band
from Bodmin barracks.

How thoroughly happy Christabel looks''
observed another friendly matron to Mrs. Trego-
nell, a little later in the afternoon : " she seems to
have quite got over her trouble about Mr. harleigh'


"Yes, I hope that is forgotten," answered
Mrs. Tregonell.

This garden party was an occasion of unspeakable
pain to Christabel. Her aunt had insisted upon
sending out the invitations. There must be some
kind of festival upon her adopted daughter's
coming of age. The inheritor of lands and
money was a person whose twenty-first birthday

could not be permitted to slip by unmarked,, like
any other day in the calendar.

If we were to have no garden party this
summer people would say you were broken-hearted
at the sad end of last yearns engagement,
darlings said Mrs. Tregonell, when Christabel had
pleaded against the contemplated assembly, ' and
I know your pride would revolt at that.''

' Dear Auntie, my pride has been levelled to the
dust, if I ever had any ; it will not raise its head
on account of a garden party ."'

Mrs. Tregonell insisted, albeit even her small
share of the preparations, the mere revision of the
list of guests  the discussion and acceptance of
Jessie Bridgemans arrangements  was a fatigue to
the jaded mind and enfeebled body. When the
day came the mistress of Mount Royal carried
herself with the old air of quiet dignity which her
friends knew so rell. People saw that she was
aged, that she had grown pale and thin and wan ;
and they ascribed this change in her to anxiety
about her niece's engagement. There were vague
ideas as to the cause of Mr. Hail eights dismissal 

dim notions of terrible iniquities, startling rev*
nations occurring on the very brink of marriage.
That section of county society which did not go to
London knew a great deal more about the details
of the story than the people who had been in town
at the time and had seen Miss Courtenay and her
lover almost daily. For those daughters of the
soil who but rarely crossed the Tamar the story of
Miss Courteney engagement was a social mystery
of so dark a complexion that it afforded inexhaustible
material for tea-table gossip. A story, of which
no one seemed to know the exact details, gave
wide ground for speculation, and could always be
looked at from new points of view.

And nor here was the same Miss Courtenay
smiling upon her friends, fair and radiant, showing
no traces of last year's tragedy in her looks or
manners ; being, indeed, one of those women who
do not wear their hearts upon their sleeves for
days to peck at. The local mind, therefore,
arrived at the conclusion that Miss Courtenay had
consoled herself for the loss of one lover by the
gain of another, and was now engaged to her cousin.

Clara St. Aubyn ventured to congratulate her
upon this happy issue out of bygone griefs.

' I am so glads she said, squeezing Christabe?s
hand, during an inspection of the hot-houses. " I
like him so much."

"I don't quite understand' replied Christabel,
with a freezing look : ' who is it whom you like ?
The new Curate T'

'No dear, don't pretend to misunderstand me.
I am so pleased to think that you and your cousin
are going to make a match of it. He is so handsome
 such a fine, frank, open-hearted manner  so
altogether nice''

 I am pleased to hear you praise him," said
Christabel, still supremely cold ; " but my cousin
is my cousin, and will never be anything more."

You don't mean that?"

I do  without the smallest reservation."

Clara became thoughtful. Leonard Tregonell
was one of the best matches in the county, and he
had always been civil to her. They had tastes in common,
were both horsey and doggy, and plain-spoken
to brusqueness. Why should not she be mistress

of Mount Royal, by-and-by if Christabel despised
her opportunities ?

At half-past seven, the last carriage had driven
away from the porch; and Mrs. Tregonell, thoroughly
exhausted by the exertions of the afternoon, reclined
languidly in her favourite chair, moved from its
winter-place by the hearth, to a deep embayed
window looking on to the rose-garden. Christabel
sat on a stool at her aunts feet, her fair head resting
against the cushioned elbow of Mrs. TregonelFs
chair.

Well, Auntie, the people are gone and the
birthday is over. Isn't that a blessing T' she said
lightly.

' Yes, dear, it is over, and you are of age  your
own mistress. My guardianship expires to-day. I
wonder whether I shall find any difference in my
darling now she is out of leading-strings.''

I don't think you will, Auntie. I have not
much inclination for desperate flights of any kind.
What can freedom or the unrestricted use of my
fortune give me, which your indulgence has not
already given ? What whim or fancy of mine

have you ever thwarted ? No, Aunt Di, I don't
think there is any scope for rebellion on my
part."

 And you will not leave me, dear, till the end ?"
pleaded the widow. ' Your bondage cannot be for
very longs

' Auntie ! how can you speak like that, when
you know  when you must know that I have
no one in the world but you, now  no one,
dearest," said Christabel, on her knees at her aunts
feet, clasping and kissing the pale transparent
hands. ' I have not the knack of loving many
people. Jessie is very good to me, and I am fond
of her as my friend and companion. Uncle Oliver
is all goodness, and I am fond of him in just the
same way. But I never loved any one but you and
Angus. Angus is gone from me, and if God takes
you. Auntie, my prayer is that I may speedily
follow you."

My love, that is a blasphemous prayer : it
implies doubt in Gods goodness. He means the
young and innocent to be happy in this world 
happy and a source of happiness to others. You

VOL. II. I

will form new ties : a husband and children will
console you for all you have lost in the paste

'No, aunt I shall never marry. Put that idea
out of your mind. You will think less badly of me
for refusing Leonard if you understand that I have
made up my mind to live and die unmarried

'' But I cannot and will not believe that Belle :
whatever you may think now a year hence your
ideas will have entirely altered. Be member my
own history. When George Harleigh died I thought
the world  so far as it concerned me  had come to
an end, that I had only to wait for death. My
fondest hope was that I should die within the year,
and be buried in a grave near his  yet five years
afterwards I was a happy wife and mothers

' God was good to you," said Christabel, quietly,
thinking all the while that her aunt must have been
made of a different clay from herself. There was a
degradation in being able to forget : it implied a
lower kind of organism than that finely strung
nature which loves once and once only.

CHAPTER VI.

Having pledged herself to remain with her aunt
to the end, Christabel was fain to make the best of
her life at Mount Royal, and in order to do this she
must needs keep on good terms with her cousin.
Leonard's conduct of late had been irreproachable ;
he was attentive to his mother, all amiability ta
Christabel, and almost civil to Miss Bridgeman.
He contrived to make his peace with Randie, and
he made such a good impression upon Major Bree
that he won the warm praises of that gentleman.

The cross country rides were resumed, the Major
always in attendance ; and Leonard and his cousin
were seen so often together, riding, driving, or
walking, that the idea of an engagement between
them became a fixture in the local mind, which held
that when one was off with the old love it was well
to be on with the new.

i2

And so the summer ripened and waned. Mrs.
TregonelPs health seemed to improve in the calm
happiness of a domestic life in which there was no
indication of disunion. She had never surrendered
her hope of ChristabeFs relenting. Leonard's frank
and generous character  his good looks  his local
popularity  must ultimately prevail over the memory
of another  that other having so completely given
up his chances. Mrs. Tregonell was half inclined
to recognize the nobleness of that renunciation ; half
disposed to accept it as a proof that Angus 
heart still hankered after the actress who
had been his first infatuation. In either case no
one could doubt that it was well for Christabel to
be released from such an engagement. To wed
Angus would have been to tie herself to sickness
and death  to take upon herself the burden of
early widowhood, to put on sackcloth and ashes asa
wedding garment.

It was winter, and there were patches of snow
upon the hills, and sea and sky were of one chill
slaty hue, before Leonard ventured to repeat that
question which he had asked with such ill effect in

the sweet summer morning, between hedgerows
flushed with roses. But through all the changes of
the waning year there had been one purpose in his
mind, and every act of his life had tended to one
result. He had sworn to himself that his cousin
should be his wife. Whatever barriers of disinclination,
direct antagonism even, there might be on her
side must be broken down by dogged patience, unyielding
determination on his side. He had the
spirit of the hunter, to whom that prey is most
precious which costs the longest chase. He loved
his cousin more passionately to-day, after keeping
his feelings in check for six months, than he had
loved her when he asked her to be his wife.
Every day of delay had increased his ardour and
strengthened his resolve.

It was New Yearns day. Christabel and Miss
Bridgeman had been to church in the morning, and
had taken a long walk with Leonard, who contrived
to waylay them at the church door after church.
Then had come a rather late luncheon, after which
Christabel spent an hour in her aunt's room reading
to her, and talking a little in a subdued way. It

was one of Mrs. Tregonells bad days, a day
upon which she could hardly leave her sofa, and
Christabel came away from the invalides room full
of sadness.

She was sitting by the fire in the library, alone
in the dusk save for Handlers company, when her
cousin came in and found her.

' Why, Belle, what are you doing all alone in
the dark ?' he exclaimed. '' I almost thought the
room was empty

' I have been thinking,-' she said, with a sigh.

Your thoughts could not have been over-pleasant,
I should think, by that sighs"* said Leonard, coming
over to the hearth, and drawing the logs together.
There's a cheerful blaze for you. Don't give way
to sad thoughts on the first day of the year. Belle :
it's a bad beginnings

 I have been thinking of your dear mother,
Leonard : my mother, for she has been more to me
than one mother in a hundred is to her daughter.
She is with us to-day  a part of our lives  very
frail and feeble, but still our own. "Where will she
be next New Year's day T'

 Ah, Belle, that's a bad look out for both of
us/ answered Leonard, seating himself in his
mother's empty chair. " Vm afraid she won-'t
last out the year that begins to-day. But she
has seemed brighter and happier lately, hasn't
she r'

' Yes, I think she has been happier, said
Christabel.

Do you know why ?''

His cousin did not answer him. She sat with
her face bent over her dog, hiding her tears on
Dandies sleek black head.

I think I know why the mother has been so
tranquil in her mind lately, Belles' said Leonard
with unusual earnestness,  and I think you know
just as well as I do. She has seen you and me
more friendly together  more cousinly  and she
has looked forward to the fulfilment of an old wish
and dream of hers. She has looked for the speedy
realization of that wish, Belle, although six months
ego it seemed hopeless. She wants to see the two
people she loves best on earth united, before she is
taken away. It would make the close of her life

happy if she could see my happiness secure. I
believe you know that, Belle /

Yes , I know that it is so. But that can never
be."

 That is a hard saying, Christabel. Half a year
ago I asked you a question, and you said no. Many
a man in my position would have been too proud
to run the risk of a second refusal. He would have
gone away in a huff and found comfort somewhere
else. But I knew that there was only one woman
in the world who could make me happy, and I waited
for her. You must own that I have been patient,
have I not. Belle V

You have been very devoted to your dear
mother  very good to me. I cannot deny that,
Leonard," Christabel answered gravely.

She had dried her tears, and lifted her head from
the dogs neck, and sat looking straight at the fire,
self-possessed and sad. It seemed to her as if all
possibility of happiness had gone out of her life.

"Am I to have no reward?" asked Leonard.
You know with what hope I have waited  you
know that our marriage would make my mother

happy that it would make the end of her life a
festival. You owe me nothing, but you owe her
something. That is seeing in form pauperis, isn't it,
Belle? But I have no pride where you are concerned""

You ask me to be your wife ; you don't even
ask if I love you' said Christabel, bitterly.  What
if I were to say yes , and then tell you afterwards
that my heart still belongs to Angus Harleigh''

' You had better tell me that now, if it is so'
said Leonard, his face darkening in the firelight.

' Then I will tell you that it is so. I gave him
up because I thought it my duty to give him up. I
believed that in honour he belonged to another
woman. I believe so still. But I have never left
off loving him. That is why I have made up my
mind never to marry."

' You are wise' retorted Leonard, '' such a confession
as that would settle for most men. But it does
not settle for me. Belle. I am too far gone. If you
are a fool about Harleigh, I am a fool about you.
Only say you will marry me, and I will take my
chance of all the rest. I know you will be a goodwife
; and I will be a good husband to you. And I

suppose in the end you will get to care for mea
little. One thing is certain, that I can be happy
without you ; so I would gladly run the risk of an
occasional taste of misery with you. Come, Belle, is
it a bargains he pleaded, taking her unresisting
hands. " Say that it is, dearest. Let me kiss the
future mistress of Mount Royal."

He bent over her and kissed her  kissed those
lips which had once been sacred to Angus Harleigh,
which she had sworn in her heart should be kissed
by no other man upon earth. She recoiled from
him with a shiver of disgust  no good omen for their
wedded bliss.

"This will make our mother very happy," said
Leonard. " Come to her now, Belle, and let us
tell her.

Christabel went with slow, reluctant steps,
ashamed of the weakness which had yielded to
persuasion and not to duty. But when Mrs.
Tregonell heard the news from the triumphant
lover, the light of happiness that shone upon the
wan face was almost an all-sufficing reward for this
last sacrifice.

My love, my loves cried the widow, clasping
her niece to her breast. " You have made my last
earthly days happy. I have thought you cold and
hard. I feared that I should die before you
relented; but now you have made me glad and
grateful. I reared you for this, I taught you for
this, I have prayed for this ever since you were a
child. I have prayed that my son might have a pure
and perfect wife : and God has granted my prayer .'''

After this came a period of such perfect content
and tranquillity for the invalid, that Christabel
forgot her own sorrows. She lived in an atmosphere
of gladness ; congratulations, gifts, were pouring in
upon her every day ; her aunt petted and cherished
her, was never weary of praising and caressing her.
Leonard was all submission as a lover. Major Bree
was delighted at the security which this engagement
promised for the carrying on of the line of Champer-nones
and Tregonells  the union of two fine
estates. He had looked forward to a dismal
period when the widow would be laid in her grave,
her son a wanderer, and Christabel a resident at
Plymouth or Bath; while spiders wove their webs

in shadowy corners of the good old Manor House,
and mice , to all appearance self-sustaining, scampered
and scurried behind the panelling.

Jessie Bridgeman was the only member of
Christabers circle who refrained from any expression
of approval.

Did I not tell you that you must end by
marrying him ?'' she exclaimed. " Did I not say
that if you stayed here the thing was inevitable?
Continual dropping will wear away a stone; the
stone is a fixture and canst help being dropped
upon ; but if you had stuck to your colours and
gone to Leipsic to study the piano, you would have
escaped the droppings

As there was no possible reason for delay, while
there was a powerful motive for a speedy marriage,
in the fact of Mrs. TregonelFs precarious health,
and her ardent desire to see her son and her
niece united before her fading eyes closed for ever
upon earth and earthly cares, Christabel was fain
to consent to the early date which her aunt and
her lover proposed, and to allow all arrangements
to be hurried on with that view.

So in the dawning of the year, when Proserpine's
returning footsteps were only faintly indicated by
pale snowdrops and early violets lurking in
sheltered hedges and by the gold and purple of
crocuses in all the cottage gardens, Christabel put
on her wedding gown, and whiter than the pale ivory
tint of the soft sheeny satin, took her seat in the
carriage beside her adopted mother, to be driven
down into the valley, and up the hilly street, where
all the inhabitants of Boscastle  save those who
had gone on before to congregate by the lich-gate
were on the alert to see the bride go by.

Mrs. Tregonell was paler than her niece, the fine
regular features blanched with that awful pallor
which tells of disease  but her eyes were shining
with the light of gladness.

'My darlings' she murmured, as they drove
down to the harbour bridge, ' I have loved you all
your life, but never as I love you to-day. My
dearest, you have filled my soul with content."

I thank God that it should be so'' faltered
Christabel.

' If I could only see you smile, dear," said

her aunt. Your expression is too sad for a
brides

 Is it , Auntie ? But marriage is a serious things
dear. It means the dedication of a life to duty."

Duty which affection will make very light, I
hopes said Mrs. Tregonell, chilled by the cold
statuesque face wrapped in its cloudy veil. "Christ-abel,
my love, tell me that you are not unhappy 
that this marriage is not against your inclination.
It is of your own free will that you give yourself
to my boy ?''

Yes of my own free wills answered Christabel,
firmly.

As she spoke, it flashed upon her that Iphigenia
would have given the same answer before they led
her to the altar of offended Artemis. There are
sacrifices offered with the victims free consent,
which are not the less sacrifices.

'look; dear' cried her aunt, as the children,
clustering at the school-house gate  dismissed from
school an hour before their time  waved their
sturdy arms, and broke into a shrill treble cheer
*' everybody is pleased at this marriages

If you are glad;, dearest I am contents murmured
her niece.

It was a very quiet wedding  or a wedding
which ranks among quiet weddings
now-a-days, when nuptial ceremonies are for the
most part splendid. No train o bridesmaids in
aesthetic colours, Duchess of Devonshire hats, and
long mittens  no page-boys, staggering under
gigantic baskets of flowers  no fuss or fashion, ta
make that solemn ceremony a raree-show for the
gaping crowd. The Rector of Trevalga's two little
girls were the only bridesmaids  dressed after Sir
Joshua, in short-waisted dove-coloured frocks and
pink sashes, mob caps and mittens, with big
bunches of primroses and violets in their chubby
hands.

Mrs. Tregonell looked superb in a dark ruby
velvet gown, and long mantle of the same rich stuff,
bordered with darkest sable. It was she who gave
her niece away, while Major Bree acted as best
man for Leonard. There were no guests at this
Winter wedding. Mrs. Tregonell's frail health was
a sufficient reason for the avoidance of all pomp and

show ; and Christabel had pleaded earnestly for a
very quiet wedding.

So before that altar where she had hoped to
pledge herself for life and till death to Angus
Harleigh, Christabel gave her submissive hand to
Leonard Tregonell, while the fatal words were
spoken which have changed and blighted some few
lives to set against the many they have blessed and
glorified. Still deadly pale the bride went with
the bridegroom to the vestry, to sign that book of
fate, the register, Mrs. Tregonell following on Major
Breeds arm, Miss Bridgeman  a neat little figure
in silver grey poplin  and the child bride-maids
crowding in after them, until the small vestry was
filled with a gracious group, all glow of colour and
sheen of silk and satin, in the glad spring
sunshine.

* Now, Mrs. Tregonell/ said the Major, cheerily,
when the bride and bridegroom had signed, " let
us have your name next, if you please ; for I don't
think there is any of us who more rejoices in this
union than you do."
The widow took the pen, and wrote her name below

that of Christabelj with a hand that never faltered.
The incumbent o Minster used to say afterwards
that this autograph was the grandest in the register.
But the pen dropped suddenly from the hand that
had guided it so firmly. Indies. Tregonell looked round
at the circle of faces with a strange wild look in
her own. She gave a faint half-stifled cry and fell
upon her sons breast,, her arms groping about his
shoulders feebly, as if they would fain have wound
themselves round his neck, but could not, encumbered
by the heavy mantle.

Leonard put his arm round her, and held her
firmly to his breast.

' Dear mother, are you ill V he asked, alarmed
by that strange look in the haggard face.

' It is the end' she faltered. " Don't be sorry,
dear. I am so happy .

And thus, with a shivering sigh, the weary heart
throbbed its last dull beat, the faded eyes grew
dim, the lips were dumb for ever.

The Rector tried to get Christabel out of the
vestry before she could know what had happened 
but the bride was clinging to her aunt's lifeless

VOL. II. K

CHAPTER Iii.

1 GODS CAN SHAKE

There was a sad silent week of waiting before the
bride set forth upon her bridal tour, robed in deepest
mourning. For six days the windows of Mount
E/Oyal were darkened, and Leonard and his newly
wedded wife kept within the shadow of that house
of death, almost as strictly as if they had been
Jewish mourners,, bound by ancient ceremonial laws
whereof the close observance is a kind of patriotism
among a people who have no fatherland. All the hothouses
at Mount Royal gave out their treasures 
white hyacinths, and rose-flushed cyclamen, gardenia,
waxen camellias, faint Dijonroses  for the adornment
of the death chamber. The corridor outside that
darkened room had an odour of hot-house flowers.
The house, folded in silence and darkness, felt like
some splendid sepulchre. Leonard was deeply
depressed by his mother's death ; more shocked by

its suddenness by this discordant note in his triumphant
marriage song, than by the actual fact ; this
loss having been long discounted in his own mind
among the evils o the future.

ChristabeFs grief was terrible, albeit she had lived
for the last year in constant fear of this affliction.
Its bitterness was in no wise lessened because it had
been long expected. Never even in her saddest
moments had she realized the agony of that parting,
the cold dull sense of loneliness, of dismal abandonment,
in a loveless, joyless, world, when that one beloved
friend was taken from her. Leonard tried his
best to console her, putting aside his own sorrow, in
the endeavour to comfort his bride ; but his efforts at
consolation were not happy, for the most part taking
the form of philosophical truisms which may be very
good in an almanac, or as padding for a country
newspaper, but which sound dull and meaningless
to the ear of the mourner who says in his heart
there was never any sorrow like unto my sorrow.

In the low sunlight of the March afternoon they
laid Mrs. TregonelFs coffin in the family vault, beside
the niche where her faithful husband of ten years

The widow's will was of the simplest. She left
legacies to the old servants ; her wardrobe, with the
exception of laces and furs, to Dormer ; mementoes
to a few old friends ; two thousand pounds in trust
for certain small local charities ; to Christabel all her
jewels and books ; and to her son everything else of
which she died possessed. He was now by inheritance
from his mother, and in right of his wife, master
of the Champernowne estate, which, united to the
Tregonell property, made him one of the largest
landowners in the West of England. ChristabeFs
fortune had been strictly settled on herself before
her marriage, with reversion to Leonard in the
failure of children ; but the fact of this settlement,
to which he had readily agreed, did not lessen

Christabel and her husband started for the Continent
on the day after the funeral Leonard fervently
hoping that change of scene and constant
movement would help his wife to forget her grief.
It was a dreary departure for a honeymoon tour 
the sombre dress of bride and bridegroom, the doleful
visage of Dormer, the late Mrs. TregonelFs faithful
maid, whom the present Mrs. Tregonell retained for
her own service, glad to have a person about
her who had so dearly loved the dead. They
travelled to Weymouth, crossed to Cherbourg,
and thence to Paris, and on without stopping to
Bordeaux; then, following the line southward, they
visited all the most interesting towns of southern
France  Albi, Montauban, Toulouse, Carcassonne,
Narbonne, Montpellier, Nismes, and so to the fairylike
shores of the Mediterranean, lingering on their
way to look at mediaeval cathedrals, Roman baths and
amphitheatres, citadels, prisons, palaces, aqueducts,
all somewhat dry-adust and tiresome to Leonard,
but full of interest to Christabel, who forgot her

own griefs as she pored over these relics of pagan
and Christian history.

Nice was in all its glory of late spring when
after a lingering progress,, they arrived at that
Brighton of the south. It was nearly six weeks
since that March sunset which had lighted the
funeral procession in Minster Churchyard and
Christabel was beginning to grow accustomed to
the idea of her aunts death  nay, had begun to
look back with a dim sense of wonder at the happy
time in which they two had been together, their
love unclouded by any fear of doom and parting.
That last year of Mrs. TregonelFs life had been Chris-abel's
apprenticeship to grief. All the gladness and
thoughtlessness of youth had been blighted by the
knowledge of an inevitable parting  a farewell that
must soon be spoken  a dear hand clasped fondly
to-day, but which must be let go tomorrow.

Under that soft southern sky a faint bloom came
back to ChristabeFs cheeks, which had not until
now lost the wan whiteness they had worn on her
wedding-day. She grew more cheerful, talked
brightly and pleasantly to her husband, and put oft

You'c looking uncommonly jolly, Belle' said
Leonard, as his wife took her seat at the little table
in front of an open window overlooking the blue
water and the amphitheatre of hills, glorified by the
sunset. They were dining at a private table in the
public room of the hotel, Leonard having a fancy
for the life and bustle of the table devote rather
than the seclusion of his own apartments. Chris-abel
hated sitting down with a herd of strangers ;
so, by way of compromise, they dined at their own
particular table, and looked on at the public banquet,
as at a stage-play enacted for their amusement.

There were others who preferred the exclusiveness

of a separate table : among these two middle-aged
men  one military, both new arrivals  who sat
within earshot of Mr. and Mrs. Tregonell.

That's a fascinating get-up, Belle' pursued
Leonard, proud of his wife's beauty, and not displeased
at a few respectful glances from the men at
the neighbouring table which that beauty had
elicited. '' By-the-by, why shouldn't we go to the
opera to-night ? They do ' Traviata / none of your
Wagner stuff, but one of the few operas a fellow can
understand. It will cheer you up a bit.''''

Thank you, Leonard. You are very good to
think of it ; but I had rather not go to any place of
amusement  this year."

That's rank rubbish. Belle. What can it matter
here, where nobody knows us? And do you
suppose it can make any difference to my poor
mother ? Her sleep will be none the less tranquil'

'' I know that : but it pleases me to honour her
memory. I will go to the opera as often as you
like next year, Leonard.''

You may go or stay away, so far as I'm concerned''
answered Leonard, with a sulky air. " 1

This was not the first time that Mr. Tregonell
had shown the cloven foot during that prolonged
honeymoon. He was not actually unkind to his
wife. He indulged her fancies for the most part,
even when they went counter to his ; he would have
loaded her with gifts, had she been willing to accept
them ; he was the kind of spouse who, in the estimation
of the outside world, passes as a perfect
husband  proud, fond, indulgent, lavish  just the
kind of husband whom a sensuous, selfish woman
would consider absolutely adorable from a practical
standpoint ; supplementing him, perhaps, with the
ideal, in the person of a lover.

So far, Christabers wedded life had gone smoothly;
for in the measure of her sacrifice she had included
obedience and duty after marriage. Yet there was
not an hour in which she did not feel the utter
want of sympathy between her and the man she
had married  not a day in which she did not discover
his inability to understand her, to think as she
thought, to see as she saw. Religion, conscience.

More than once during these six weeks of matrimony
Leonard had betrayed a jealous temper,
which threatened evil in the future. His courtship
had been one long struggle at self-repression.
Marriage gave him back his liberty and he used it
on more than one occasion to sneer at his wife's
former lover , or at her fidelity to a cancelled vow.
Christabel had understood his meaning only too well ;
but she had heard him in a scornful silence which was
more humiliating than any other form of reproof.

When he had finished his dinner, he took out his
cigarette case, and went out on the balcony to
smoke, leaving Christabel sitting alone at her little
table.

The two Englishmen at \.h.e table in the next
window were talking in a comfortable, genial kind
of way, and in voices quite loud enough to be overheard
by their immediate neighbours. The soldierlike
man sat back to back with Christabel, and she
could not avoid hearing the greater part of his
conversation.

She heard with listless ears, neither understanding
nor interested in understanding the drift of his
talk  her mind far away in the home she had left,

a desolate and ruined lionel as it seemed to her,
now that her aunt was dead. But by-and-by the
sound of a too familiar name rivetted her attention,

Angus Harleigh , yes ! I saw his name in the
visitor's book. He was here last month  gone onto
Italy said the soldier.

You knew him ? asked the other.

' Dans le temps. I saw a good deal of him when
he was about towns'

Went a mucker, didn't he ?'

I believe he spent a good deal of money  but
lie never belonged to an out-and-out fast lot. Went
in for art and literature,, and that kind of thing,
don't you know ? Garrick Club, behind the scenes
at the swell theatres  Richmond and Greenwich
dinners  Maidenhead  Henley  lived in a house-boat
one summer, men used to go down by the last
train to moonlit suppers after the play. He had
some very good ideas, and carried them out on a
large scale  but he never dropped money on cards,
or racing  rather looked down upon the amusements
of the million. By-the-by I was at rather
a curious wedding just before I left Londoner

r

' Little Fishky's. The Colonel came up to time
at last'

Fishky/ interrogated the civilian vaguely.

Don't you know Fishky, alias Psyche, the
name by which Stella Mayne condescended to be
known by her intimate friends during the run of
Cupid and Psyche Colonel Luscomb married
her last week at St. George's, and I was at the
wedding."

Rather feeble of him, wasn't it ?" asked the
civilian.

"Well, you see, he could hardly sink himself
lower than he had done already by his infatuation
for the lady. He knew that all his chances at the
Horseguards were gone; so if a plain gold ring
could gratify a young person who had been surfeited
with diamonds, why should our friend withhold
that simple and inexpensive ornament ? Whether
the lady and gentleman will be any the happier
for this rehabilitation of their domestic circumstances,
is a question that can only be answered
in the future. The wedding was decidedly queer."

In what way ?'"

It was a case of vaulting ambition which overleaps
itself. The Colonel wanted a quiet wedding.
I think he would have preferred the registrar's
office  no church going, or fuss of any kind  but
the lady, to whom matrimony was a new idea,
willed otherwise. So she decided that the nest in St.
John's Wood was not spacious enough to accommodate
the wedding guests. She sent her invitations
far and wide, and ordered a rechercUt breakfast at
an hotel in Brook Street. Of the sixty people she
expected about fifteen appeared, and there was a
rowdy air about those select few, male and female,
which was by no means congenial to the broad
glare of day. Night birds, every one  painted
cheeks  dyed mustachios  tremulous hands  a
foreshadowing of del. them. in the very way some
of them swallowed their champagne. I was sorry for
Fishky, who looked lovely in her white satin frock and
orange-blossoms, but who had a piteous droop about
the corners of her lips, like a child whose birthday
feast has gone wrong. I felt still sorrier for the
Colonel  a proud man debased by low surroundings.''''

He will take her off the stage,, I suppose'
suggested the other.

"Naturally, he will try to do so. Hell make a
good fight for it, I dare say ; but whether he can
keep Fishky from the footlights is an open question.
I know he's in debt, and I don't very clearly see
how they are to live."

She is very fond of him, isn't she ?"

Yes, I believe so. She jilted Harleigh, a man
who worshipped her, to take up with Luscomb, so I
suppose it was a case of real affection."

I was told that she was in very bad health 
consumptive ?"

"That sort of little person is always dying,"
answered the other carelessly. " It is a part of the
metierihe Marguerite Gautier, drooping lily kind
of young woman. But I believe this one is sickly."

Christabel heard every word of this conversation,
heard and understood for the first time that her
renunciation of her lover had been useless  that the
reparation she had deemed it his duty to make, was
past making  that the woman to whose wounded
character she had sacrificed her own happiness

was false and unworthy. She had been fooled 
betrayed by her own generous instincts  her own
emotional impulses. It would have been better for
her and for Angus if she had been more worldly-minded
 less innocent of the knowledge of evil.
She had blighted her own life, and perhaps his, for
an imaginary good. Nothing had been gained to
any one living by her sacrifice.

* I thought I was doing my duty," she told herself
helplessly, as she sat looking out at the dark
water, above which the moon was rising in the
cloudless purple of a southern night. " Oh ! how
wicked that woman was to hide the truth from me 
to let me sacrifice my love and my lover  knowing
her own falsehood all the time. And now she is
the wife of another man! How she must have
laughed at my folly ! I thought it was Angus who
had deserted her, and that if I gave him up, his
own honourable feeling would lead him to atone for
that past wrong. And now I know that no good
has been done  only infinite evil.'

She thought of Angus a lonely wanderer on the
face of the earth ; jilted by the first woman he had

VOL. II. L

loved, renounced by the second with no close ties
of kindred  uncared for and alone. It was hard for
her to think of this whose dearest hope had once
been to devote her life to caring for him and
cherishing lira  prolonging that frail existence by
the tender ministrations of a boundless love. She
pictured him in his loneliness, careless of his
health, wasting his brief remnant of life  reckless,
hopeless, indifferent.

'' God grant he may fall in love with some good
woman, who will cherish him as I would have done'
was her unselfish prayer ; for she knew that domestic
affection is the only spell that can prolong a fragile
life.

It was a weak thing no doubt next morning,
when she was passing through the hall of the hotel,
to stop at the desk on which the visitors' book was
kept, and to look back through the signatures of the
last three weeks for that one familiar autograph
which she had such faint chance of ever seeing
again in the future. How boldly that one name
seemed to stand out from the page ; and even
coming upon it after a deliberate search, what a

thrill it sent through her veins ! The signature was
as firm as of old. She tried to think that this was
an indication of health and strength  but later in
the same day, when she was alone in her sitting-room,,
and her tea was brought to her by a
German waiter  one of those superior men whom it
is hard to think of as a menial  she ventured to ask
a question.

' There was an English gentleman staying hereabout
three weeks ago : a Mr. Harleigh. Do you
remember him V she asked.

The waiter interrogated himself silently for half a
minute and then replied in the affirmative.

Was he an invalid T'

Not quite an invalid, Madame. He went out
a little  but he did not seem robust. He never
went to the opera  or to any public entertainment.
He rode a little  and drove a little  and read a
great deal. He was much fonder of books than
most English gentleman's

' Do you know where he went when he left
here ?'

He was going to the Italian lakes. '

l2

Christabel asked no further question. It seemed
to her a great privilege to have heard even so much
as this. There was very little hope that in her road
of life she would often come so nearly on her lost
lover's footsteps. She was too wise to desire that they
should ever meet face to face  that she Leonard's
wife, should ever again be moved by the magic of that
voice, thrilled by the pathos of those dreamy eyes ;
but it was a privilege to hear something about him
she had lost, to know what spot of earth held him,
what skies looked down upon him.

CHAPTER Viii.

It was the end of May, when Christabel and her
husband went back to England and to Mount Royal.
Leonard wanted to stay in London for the season,
and to participate in the amusements and dissipation
of that golden time ; but this his wife most
steadfastly refused. She would be guilty of no act
which could imply want of respect for her beloved
dead. She would not make her curtsy to her
sovereign in her new character of a matron, or go
into society, within the year of her aunts death.

You will be horribly moped in Cornwallis'
remonstrated Leonard. " Everything about the
place will remind you of my poor mother. We
shall be in the doleful all the year.-'-'

' I would rather grieve for her, than forget her'
answered Christabel. " It is too easy to forgets'

Well, you must have your own way, I suppose.

You generally do/ retorted Leonard churlishly;
and, after having dragged me about a lot of
mouldy old French towns, and made me look at
churches, and Roman baths, and the sites of ancient
circuses, until I hated the very name of antiquity,
you will expect me to vegetate at Mount Royal for
the next six months."

'' I don't see any reason why a quiet life should
be mere vegetation"' said Christabel; " but if you
would prefer to spend part of the year in London
I can stay at Mount Royal''

sand get on uncommonly well without me," cried
Leonard. " I perfectly comprehend your meaning.
But I am not going in for that kind of thing.
You and I must not offer the world another example
of the semi-attached couple ; or else people might
begin to say you had married a man you did not
care for."

I will try and make your life as agreeable as I
can at the Manor, Leonard," Christabel answered,
with supreme equanimity  it was an aggravation to
her husband that she so rarely lost her temper 
so long as you do not ask me to fill the house

with visitors, or to do any tiling that might look
like want of reverence for your mother's memory's

Look !' ejaculated Leonard. '' What does it
matter how things look ? We both know that weare
sorry for having lost her  that we shall miss
her more or less every day of our lives  visitors
or no visitors. However you needn't invite any
people. I can rub on with a little fishing and boating"
They went back to Mount Royal, where all
things had gone as if by clockwork during their
absence, under Miss Bridgeman's sage administration.
To relieve her loneliness, Christabel had
invited two of the younger sisters from Shepherd's
Bush to spend the spring months at the Manor
House  and these damsels  tall, vigorous, active 
had revelled exceedingly in all the luxuries and
pleasures of a rural life under the most advantageous
circumstances. They had scoured the hills
had rifled the hedges of their abundant wildflowers
 had made friends with all ChristabePs
chosen families in the surrounding cottages  had
fallen in love with the curate who was doing duty
at Minster and Forrabury  had been buffeted by

the winds and tossed by the waves in many a
delightful boating excursion  had climbed the
rocky steeps of Tintagel so often that they seemed
to know every stone of that ruined citadel  and
now had gone home to Shepherds Bush, their
checks bright with country bloom, and their meagre
trunks overshadowed by a gigantic hamper of
country produce.

Christabel felt a bitter pang as the carriage drew
up to the porch, and she saw the neat little figure ina
black gown waiting to receive her  thinking of
that tall and noble form which should have stood
there  the welcoming arms which should have
received her, rewarding and blessing her for her self-sacrifice.
The sacrifice had been made, but death
had swallowed up the blessing and reward : and in
that intermediate land of slumber where the widow
lay there could be no knowledge of gain  no satisfaction
in the thought of her sons happiness : even
granting that Leonard was supremely happy in his
marriage, a fact which Christabel deemed open to
doubt. No, there had been nothing gained, except
that Diana TregonelPs last days had been full of

peace  her one cherished hope realized on the very
threshold of the tomb. Christabel tried to take
comfort from this knowledge.

If I had denied her to the last, if she had died
with her wish ungratified, I think I should be still
more sorry for her losses she told herself.

There was bitter pain in the return to a home
where that one familiar figure had been the central
point, the very axis of life. Jessie led the new mrs,
Tregonell into the panelled parlour, where every
object was arranged just as in the old days ; the tea-table
on the left of the wide fireplace, the large low
armchair and the book-table on the right. The
room was bright with white and crimson may,
azaleas, tea-roses.

'' I thought it was best for you to get accustomed
to the rooms without her,-* said Jessie, in a low-voice,
as she placed Christabel in the widow's old
chair, and helped to take off her hat and mantle,
'' and I thought you Avould not like anything
changed'

' Not for worlds. The house is a part of her, in
my mind. It was she who planned everything as

it now is  just adding as many new things as were
needful to brighten the old. I will never alter a
detail unless I am absolutely obliged

I am so thankful to hear you say that. Major
Free is coming to dinner. He wanted to be among
the first to welcome you. I hope you don't mind
my having told him he might comes''

I shall be very glad to see him : he is a part
of my old life here. I hope he is very wells''

 Splendid  the soul of activity and good temper.
I canst tell you how good he was to my sisters 
taking them about everywhere. I believe they both
went away deeply in love with him ; or at least, with
their affections divided between him and Mr.
Ponsonby.''

Mr. Ponsonby was the curate, a bachelor, and of
pleasing appearance.

Leonard had submitted reluctantly to the continued
residence of Miss Bridgeman at Mount
Royal. He had been for dismissing her, as a
natural consequence of his mother's death ; but
here again Christabel had been firm.

' Jessie is my only intimate friends she said,

and she is associated with every year of my girlhood.
She shall he no trouble to you Leonard,
and she will help me to save your money .''

This last argument had a softening effect. Mr.
Tregonell knew that Jessie Bridgeman was a good
manager. He had affected to despise her economies
while it was his mother's purse which was spared ;
but now that the supplies were drawn from his own
resources he was less disposed to he contemptuous
of care in the administrator of his household.

Major Bree was in the drawing-room when
Christabel came down dressed for dinner, looking
delicately lovely in her flowing gown of soft dull
black, with white flowers and white crape about her
neck. The Major's cheerful presence did much to
help Mr. Tregonell and his wife through that first
dinner at Mount Royal. He had so many small
local events to tell them about, news too insignificant
to be recorded in Jessie's letters, but not
without interest for Christabel, who loved place and
people. Then after dinner he begged his hostess to
play, declaring that he had not heard any good
music during her absence, and Christabel, who had

cultivated her musical talents assiduously in every
interval of loneliness and leisure which had occurred
in the course of her bridal tour was delighted to
play to a listener who could understand and appreciate
the loftiest flights in harmony.

The Major was struck with the improvement
in her style. She had always played sweetly but
not with this breadth and power.

*' You must have worked very hard in these last
few months'' he said.

Yes, I made the best use of every opportunity.
I had some lessons from a very clever German professor
at Nice. Music kept me from brooding on
my losses she added, in a low voice.

I hope you will not grow less industrious now
you have come home'' said the Major. " Most
women give Mozart and Beethoven to the winds
when they marry, shut up their piano altogether,
or at most aspire to play a waltz for their children's
dancing."

I shall not be one of those. Music will be my
chief pursuit  now''

The Major felt that although this was a very

proper state of things from an artistic point of view,
it argued hardly so well for the chances of matrimonial
bliss. That need of a pursuit after marriage
indicated a certain emptiness in the existence of the
wife. A life closed and rounded in the narrow
circle of a wedding ring hardly leaves room for the
assiduous study of art.

And now began for Christabel a life which seemed
to her to be in some wise a piece of mechanism,
an automatic performance of daily recurring duties,
an hourly submission to society which had no charm
for her  a life which would have hung as heavily
upon her spirit as the joyless monotony of a convict
prison, had it not been for the richness of her
own mental resources, and her love of the country
in which she lived. She could not be altogether
unhappy roaming with her old friend Jessie over
those wild romantic hills, or facing the might of
that tremendous ocean, grand and somewhat awful
even in its calmest aspect. Nor was she unhappy
seated in her own snug morning-room among the
books she loved  books which were always opening
new worlds of thought and wonder, books of such

inexhaustible interest that she was often inclined
to give way to absolute despair at the idea of how
much of this worlds wisdom must remain unexplored
even at the end of a long life. De Quince
has shown by figures that not the hardest reader
can read half the good old books that are worth
reading ; to say nothing of those new books daily
claiming to be read.

Nos for a thoroughly intellectual woman, loving
music, loving the country, tender and benevolent
to the poor, such a life as Christabel was called
upon to lead in this first year of marriage could not
be altogether unhappy. Here were two people joined
by the strongest of all human ties, and yet utterly
unsympathetic ; but they were not always in each
others company, and when they were together the
wife did her best to appear contented with her lot,
and to make life agreeable to her husband. She
was more punctilious in the performance of every
duty she owed him than she would have been had
she loved him better. She never forgot that his
welfare was a charge which she had taken upon
herself to please the kinswoman to whom she owed

so much. The debt was all the more sacred since
she to whom it was due had passed away to the
land where there is no knowledge of earthly
conduct.

The glory of summer grew and faded,, the everlasting
hills changed with all the varying lights
and shadows of autumn and winter ; and in the
tender early spring, when all the trees were budding,
and the hawthorn hedges were unfolding
frankly green leaves among the brown, Christabel's
heart melted with the new strange emotion of
maternal love. A son was born to the lord of the
manor; and while all Boscastle rejoiced at this im-important
addition to the population, ChristabeFs
pale face shone with a new radiance, as the baby-face
looked up at her from the pillow by her side 
eyes clear and star-like, with a dreamy, far-away gaze,
which was almost more lovely than the recognizing
looks of older eyes  a being hardly sentient of the
things of earth, but bright with memories of
the spirit world.

The advent of this baby-boy gave a new impulse
to ChristabeFs life. She gave herself up to these

new cares and duties with intense devotion ; and
for the next six months of her life was so entirely-engrossed
by her child that Leonard considered himself
neglected. She deferred her presentation at
Court till the next season and Leonard was compelled
to be satisfied with an occasional brief holiday
in London, during which he naturally relapsed into
the habits of his bachelor days  dined and gamed at
the old clubs, and went about everywhere with his
friend and ally, Jack Vandeleur.

Christabel had been married two years, and her
boy was a year old, when she went back to the old
house in Bolton Row with her husband, to enjoy
her second season of fashionable pleasures. How
hard it was to return under such altered circumstances,
to the rooms in which she had been so
happy  to see everything unchanged except her
own life. The very chairs and tables seemed to be
associated with old joys, old griefs. All the sharp
agony of that bitter day on which she had made up
her mind to renounce Angus Harleigh came back
to her as she looked round the room in which the
pain had been suffered. The flavour of old memories

was mixed with all the enjoyments of the
present. The music she heard this year was the
same music they two had heard together. And
here was this smiling Park all green leaves and
sunlight, filled with this seeming frivolous crowd;
in almost every detail the scene they two had contemplated,
amused and philosophical, four years ago.

The friends who called on her and invited her
now, were the same people among whom she had
visited during her first season. People who had
been enraptured at her engagement to Mr. Harleigh
were equally delighted at her marriage with her
cousin, or at least said so ; albeit, more than one
astute matron drove away from Bolton Row sighing
over the folly of marriage between first cousins, and
marvelling that Christabers baby was not deaf, blind,
or idiotic.

Among other old acquaintance, young Mrs. Tree
met the Dowager Lady Cumberbridge, at a
great dinner, more Medusa-like than ever, in a
curly auburn wig after Madame de Montcspan, and
a diamond coronet. Christabel shrank from the
too well-remembered figure with a faint shudder; but

VOL. II. M

Lady Cumberbridge swooped upon her like an
elderly hawk, when the ladies were on their way
back to the drawing-rooms and insisted upon being
friendly.

' My dear child,, where have you been hiding
yourself all these years ? she exclaimed in her fine
baritone. " I saw your marriage in the papers, and
your poor aunt's death ; and I was expecting
to meet you and your husband in society last season.
You didnH come to town ? A baby, I suppose ?
Just so ! Those horrid babies ! In the coming
century there will be some better arrangement for
carrying on the species. How well you are looking,
and your husband is positively charming. He sat
next me at dinner, and we were friends in a
moment. How proud he is of you ! It is quite
touching to see a man so devoted to his wife ; and
now  they were in the subdued light of the
drawing-room by this time, light judiciously tempered
by ruby-coloured Venetian glass  " now tell
me all about my poor friend. Was she long ill V

And, with a ghoulish interest in horrors, the
dowager prepared herself for a detailed narration of

!Mrs. Tregonell's last illness; but Christabel could
only falter out a few brief sentences. Even now
she could hardly speak of her aunt without tears ;
and it was painful to talk of her to this worldly
dowager,, with keen eyes glittering under penthouse
brows and a hard eager mouth.

In all that London season, Christabel only once
heard her old lover's name; carelessly mentioned at
a dinner party. He was talked of as a guest at
some diplomatic dinner at St. Petersburg, early in
the year.

31 2

CHAPTER IX.

It was October, and the chestnut leaves were
falling slowly and heavily in the park at Mount
Royal, the oaks upon the hill side were faintly
tinged with bronze and gold, while the purple bloom
of the heather and the yellow flower of the gorse
were seen in rarer patches amidst the sober tints
of autumn. It was the time at which to some
eyes this Cornish coast was most lovely, with a
subdued poetic loveliness  a dreamy beauty touched
with tender melancholy.

Mount Royal was delightful at this season.
Liberal fires in all the rooms filled the old oak
panelled house with a glow of colour, and a sense
of ever-present warmth that was very comfortable
after the sharpness of October breezes. Those
greenhouses and hothouses, which had been for so
many years Mrs. TregonelFs perpetual care, now

disgorged their choicest contents. Fragile white
and yellow asters, fairy-like terns, Dijon roses,
lilies of the valley, stephanotis, mignonette, and Cape
jasmine filled the rooms with perfume. Modern
blinds of diapered crimson and grey subdued the
light of those heavily mullions windows which had
been originally designed with a view to strength
and architectural effect, rather than to the admission
of the greatest possible amount of daylight.
The house at this season of the year seemed made
for warmth, so thick the walls, so heavily curtained
the windows; just as in the height o
summer it seemed made for coolness. Christabel
had respected all her aunts ideas and prejudices :
nothing had been changed since Mrs. TregonelFs
death  save for that one sad fact that she was
gone. The noble matronly figure, the handsome
face, the kindly smile were missing from the house
where the widow had so long reigned, an imperious
but a beneficent mistress  having her own way in
all things, but always considerate of other people's
happiness and comfort.

Mr. Tregonell was inclined to be angry with his

wife sometimes for her religious adherence to her
aunt's principles and opinions in things great and
small.

' You are given over body and soul to my poor
mother's fads' he said. * If it had not been for
you I should have turned the house out of windows
when she was gone  got rid of all the worm-eaten
furniture, broken out new windows, and let
in more light. One feels half asleep in a house
where there is nothing but shadow and the scent
of hothouse flowers. I should have given carte
blanche to some London man  the fellow who
writes verses, and who invented the storks and
sunflower style of decoration  and have let him
refurnish the saloon and music-room, pitch out a
library which nobody reads, and substitute half a
dozen dwarf book-cases in gold and ebony, filled
with brightly bound books, and with Japanese jars
and bottles on the top of them to give life and
colour to the oak panelling. I hate a gloomy
house."

'soh, Leonard, you surely would not call Mount
Royal gloomy !"

But I do : I hate a house that smells of ones
ancestors

Just now you objected to the scent of the
flowers."

' You are always catching me up  there was
never such a woman to argue  but I mean what I
say. The smell is a combination of stephanotis
and old bones. I wish you would let me build
you a villa at Torquay or Dartmouth. I think I
should prefer Dartmouth : its a better place for
yachting.''

Tou are very kind but I would rather live at
Mount Royal than anywhere else. Remember I
was brought up here."

"A reason for your being heartily sick of the
house  as I am. But I suppose in your case there
are associations  sentimental associations."

The house is filled with memories of my second
mother V

Yes  and there are other memories  associations
which you love to nurse and brood upon. I
think I know all about it  can read up your
feelings to a nicety"'

You can think and say what you please,
Leonard'' she answered, looking at him with unaltered
calmness, " but you will never make me
disown my love of this place, and its surroundings.
You will never make me ashamed of being fond
of the home in which I have spent my life's

' I begin to think there is very little shame in
you," Leonard muttered to himself, as he walked
away.

He had said many bitter words to his wife 
had aimed many a venomed arrow at her breast 
but he had never made her blush, and he had
never made her cry. There were times when a dull
hopeless anger consumed him  auger against her 
against Nature  against Fate  and when his only
relief was to be found in harsh and bitter speech,
in dark and sullen looks. It would have been a
greater relief to him if his shots had gone home 
if his brutality had elicited any sign of distress.
But in this respect Christabel was heroic. She
who had never harboured an ungenerous thought
was moved only to a cold calm scorn by the unjust
and ungenerous conduct of her husband. Her

contempt was too thorough for the possibility of
resentment. Once and once only she attempted to
reason with a fool in his folly.

"Why do you make these unkind speeches,
Leonard ?" she asked, looking at him with those
calm eyes before which his were apt to waver and
look downward, hardly able to endure that steady
gaze. " Why are you always harping upon the
past  as if it were an offence against you. Is
there anything that you have to complain of in
my conduct  have I given you any cause for
anger T'

Oh, no, none. You are simply perfect as a
wife  everybody says so  and in the multitude of
counsellors, you know. But it is just possible for
perfection to be a trifle cold and unapproachable 
to keep a man at armes length  and to have an
ever-present air of living in the past which is
galling to a husband who would like  well  a little
less amiability, and a little more affection. By
Heaven, I wouldn't mind my wife being a devil, if
I knew she was fond of me. A spitfire, who
would kiss me one minute and claw me the next.

would be better than the calm superiority which is
always looking over my head."

'' Leonard, I don't think I have been wanting
in affection. You have done a great deal to repel
my liking  yes  since you force me to speak
plainly  you have made my duty as a wife more
difficult than it need have been. But, have I ever
forgotten that you are my husband, and the father
of my child ? Is there any act of my life which has
denied or made light of your authority ? When you
asked me to marry you I kept no secrets from you :
I was perfectly frank."

Devilish frank," muttered Leonard.

' You knew that I could not feel for you as I
had felt for another. These things can come only
once in a lifetime. You were content to accept
my affection  my obedience  knowing this. Why
do you make what I told you then a reproach
against me now ?"

He could not dispute the justice of this reproof.


' Well, Christabel, I was wrong, I suppose.
It would have been more gentlemanlike to hold my

tongue. I ought to know that your first girlish
fancy is a thing of the past  altogether gone and
done with. It was idiotic to harp upon that worn-out
string, wasn't it T' he asked, laughing awkwardly;
" but when a man feels savage he must hit
out at some one'*

This was the only occasion on which husband
and wife had ever spoken plainly of the past ; but
Leonard let fly those venomed arrows of his on
the smallest provocation. He could not forget
that his wife had loved another man better than
she had ever loved or even pretended to love him.
It was her candour which he felt most keenly.
Had she been willing to play the hypocrite, to
pretend a little, he would have been ever so much
better pleased.

To the outside world, even to that narrow
world which encircles an old family seat in the
depths of the country, Mr. and Mrs. Tregonell
appeared a happy couple, whose union was the most
natural thing in the world, yet not without a touch
of that romance which elevates and idealizes a
marriage.

Were they not brought up under the same
roof, boy and girl together, like, and yet not like,
brother and sister. How inevitable that they
must become devotedly attached. That little
episode of ChristabeFs engagement to another man
counted for nothing. She was so young  had never
questioned her own heart. Her true love was
away  and she was flattered by the attention of a
man of the world like Angus Harleigh  and so,
and so  almost unawares, perhaps, she allowed
herself to be engaged to him, little knowing the
real bent of his character and the gulf into which
she was about to plunge : for in the neighbourhood
of Mount Royal it was believed that a man who had
once lived as Mr. Harleigh had lived was .a soul
lost for ever, a creature given over to ruin in this
world and the next. There was no hopefulness
in the local mind for the after career of such an
offender.

At this autumn season, when Mount Royal
was filled with visitors, all intent upon taking life
pleasantly, it would have been impossible for a life
to seem more prosperous and happy to the outward

eye than that of Christabel Tregouell. The centre
of a friendly circle, the ornament of a picturesque
and perfectly appointed house the mother of a lovely
boy whom she worshipped, with the overweening
love of a young mother for her firstborn  admired,
beloved by all her little world, with a husband who
was proud of her and indulgent to her  who
could deny that Mrs. Tregonell was a person to be
envied.

Mrs. Fairfax Torrington, a widow, with a
troublesome son, and a limited income an income
whose narrow boundary she was continually overstepping
 told her hostess as much one morning
when the men were all out on the hills in the
rain, and the women made a wide circle round the
library fire, some of them intent upon crewel
work, others not even pretending to be industrious,
the faithful Randie lying at his mistress's feet, as
she sat in her favourite chair by the old carved
chimney-piece  the chair which had been her aunt
Diana for so many peaceful years.

' There is a calmness  an assured tranquillity
about your life which makes me hideously envious'

said Mrs. Fairfax Torrington, waving the Society
paper which she had been using as a screen against
the fire; after having read the raciest of its paragraphs
aloud; and pretended to be sorry for the dear friends
at whom the censors airy shafts were aimed. " I
have stayed with duchesses and with millionaires 
but I never envied either. The duchess is always
dragged to death by the innumerable claims upon her
time, her money, and her attention. Her life is very
little better than the fate of that unfortunate person
who stabbed one of the French Kings  forty wild
horses pulling forty different ways. It doesn't
make it much better because the horses are
called by pretty names, don't you know. Court,
friends, flower-shows, balls, church, opera, Ascot,
fancy fairs, seat in Scotland, place in Yorkshire,
Baden, Monaco. It is the pull that wears
one out, the dreadful longing to be allowed to sit
in one's own room by one's own fire, and rest.
I know what it is in my small way, so I have always
rather pitied duchesses. At a millionaires house
one is inevitably bored. There is an insufferable
glare and glitter of money in everything, unpleasantly

accentuated by an occasional blot of absolute
meanness. Nos Mrs. Tregonell/'' pursued the
agreeable rattle " I don't envy duchesses or millionaires'
wives : but your existence seems to me utterly
enviable, so tranquil and easy a life, in such a
perfect house, with the ability to take a plunge
into the London vortex whenever you like, or to
stay at home if you prefer it, a charming husband,
an ideal baby, and above all that sweet equable
temperament of yours, which would make life easy
sunder much harder circumstances. Don't you agree
with me, now. Miss Bridgeman ?"

' I always agree with clever people"" answered
Jessie, calmly.

Christabel went on with her work, a quiet
smile upon her beautiful lips.

Mrs. Torrington was one of those gushing
persons to whom there was no higher bliss, after
eating and drinking, than the indulgence in that
lively monologue which she called conversation,
and a happy facility for which rendered her, in her
own opinion, an acquisition in any country-house.

* The general run of people are so dull'' she

would remark in her confidential moments ; " there
are so few who can talk without being disgustingly
egotistical. Most peoples idea of conversation
is autobiography in instalments. I have always
been liked for my high spirits and flow of conversations


High spirits at forty-five are apt to pall, unless
accompanied by the rare gift of wit. Mrs. Torrington
was not witty, but she had read a good
deal of light literature, kept a common-place book,
and had gone through life believing herself a
Sheridan or a Sidney Smith, in petticoats.

' A woman's wit is like dancing in fetters she
complained sometimes : " there are so many things
one must not say V

Christabel was more than content that her
acquaintance should envy her. She wished to bethought
happy. She had never for a moment posed
as victim or martyr. In good faith, and with
steady purpose of well-doing, she had taken upon
herself the duties of a wife, and she meant to fulfil
them to the uttermost.

"There shall be no shortcoming on my sides''

she said to herself. " If we cannot live peaceably
and happily together it shall not be my fault. If
Leonard will not let me respect him as a husband,
I can still honour him as my boys fathers

In these days of fashionable agnosticism and
hysterical devotion  when there is hardly any
middle path between life spent in church and
church-work and the open avowal of unbelief 
something must be said in favour of that old-fashioned
sober religious feeling which enabled
Christabel Tregonell to walk steadfastly along the
difficult way, her mind possessed with the ever-present
belief in a Righteous Judge who saw all
her acts and knew all her thoughts.

She studied her husbands pleasure in all things
yielding to him upon every point in which principle
was not at stake. The house was filled with
friends of his choosing  not one among those
guests, in spite of their surface pleasantness, being
congenial to a mind so simple and unworldly, so
straight and thorough, as that of Christabel Trego-
nell. Without Jessie Bridgeman, Mrs. Tregonell
would have been companionless in a house full of

VOL. II. N

people. The vivacious widow, the slangy youn
ladies, with a marked taste for billiards and shooting
parties, and an undisguised preference for masculine
society, thought their hostess behind the age. It
was obvious that she was better informed than
they, had been more carefully educated, played
better, sang better, was more elegant and refined
in every thought, and look, and gesture ; but, in
spite of all these advantages, or perhaps on account
of them, she was '' slow f' not an easy person to
get on with. Her gowns were simply perfect  but
she had no chic. Nous autres, with ever so much
less money to spend on our toilettes, look more
striking  stand out better from the ruck. An
artificial rose here  a rag of old lace  a fan  a
vivid ribbon in the mazes of our hair  and the
effect catches every eye  while poor Mrs. Tregonell,
with her lovely complexion, and a gown that is
obviously Parisian, is comparatively nowhere.

This is what the Miss Vandeleurs  old campaigners
 told each other as they dressed for dinner,
on the second day after their arrival at Mount
Royal. Captain Vandeleur  otherwise Poker Van-leur,

from a supposed natural genius for that
intellectual game was Mr. TregonelFs old friend
and travelling companion. They had shared
a good deal of sport and not a little hardship
in the Rockies  had fished, and shot and 
in Canada  had played euchre in San
Francisco, and monte in Mexico  and,, in a word,
were bound together by memories and tastes in
common. Captain Vandeleur, like Byron's Corsair,
had ons virtue amidst many shortcomings. He
was an affectionate brother, always glad to do a
good turn to his sisters  who lived with a shabby
old half-pay father, in one of the shabbiest streets
in the debatable land between Publico and
Chelsea  by courtesy. South Belgravia. Captain
Vandeleur rarely had it in his power to do much
for his sisters himself  a five-pound note at
Christmas or a bonnet at Midsummer was perhaps
the furthest stretch of his personal benevolence 
but he was piously fraternal in his readiness to
victimize his dearest friend for the benefit of Dropsy
and Mopsy  these being the poetic pet names
devised to mitigate the dignity of the baptismal

Dolphin and Margaret. When Jack Vandeleur
had a pigeon to pluck, he always contrived that
Dopsy and Mopsy should get a few of the feathers.
He did not take his friends home to the shabby
little ten-roomed house in South Belgravia  such a
nest would have too obviously indicated his affinity
to the hawk tribe  but he devised some means of
bringing Mopsy and Dopsy and his married friends
together. A box at the Opera  stalls for the last
burlesque  a drag for Epsom or Ascot  or even
afternoon tea at Buckingham  and the thing was
done. The Miss Vandeleurs never failed to improve
the occasion. They had a genius for making
their little wants known, and getting them supplied.
The number of their gloves  the only shop in
London at which wearable gloves could be bought 
how naively these favourite themes for girlish converse
dropped from their cherry lips. Sunshades,
fans, lace, flowers, perfumery  all these luxuries
of the toilet were for the most part supplied to
Dopsy and Mopsy from this fortuitous source.

Some pigeons lent themselves more kindly to the
plucking than others ; and the Miss Vandeleurs

had long ago discovered that it was not the
wealthiest men who were most lavish. Given a
gentleman with a settled estate of fourteen thousand
a year,, and the probabilities were that he would not
rise above a dozen gloves or a couple of bouquets.
It was the simple youth who had just come into five
or ten thousand, and had nothing but the workhouse
ahead of him when that was gone, who spent his
money most freely. It is only the man who is
steadfastly intent upon ruining himself, who ever
quite comes up to the feminine idea of generosity.
The spendthrift, during his brief season of fortune,
leads a charmed life. For him it is hardly a question
whether gloves cost five or ten shillings a pair
whether stephanotis is in or out of season.
He offers his tribute to beauty Without any base
scruples of economy. What does it matter to him
whether ruin comes a few months earlier by reason
of this lavish liberality, seeing that the ultimate
result is inevitable.

With the Miss Vandeleurs Leonard Tregonell
ranked as an old friend. They had met him
at theatres and races; they had been invited to

little dinners at wliicli lie was host. Jack Yang
had a special genius for ordering a dinner,
and for acting as guide to a man who liked
dining in the highways and byways of London ; it
being an understood thing that Captain Vandeleur's
professional position as counsellor exempted him
from any share in the reckoning. Under his
fraternal protection, Dopsy and Mopsy had dined
snugly in all manner of foreign restaurants, and had
eaten and drunk their fill at Mr. Tregonell's expense.
They were both gourmands, and they were not
ashamed of enjoying the pleasures of the table. It
seemed to them that the class of men who could not
endure to see a woman eat had departed with Byron,
and Buller, and Doorway, and De Musset. A new
race has arisen, which likes a ''jolly girl who
can appreciate a recherche dinner, and knows the
difference between good and bad wine.

Mr. Tregonell did not yield himself up a victim
to the fascinations of either Dopsy or Mopsy. He
had seen too much of that class of beauty during
his London experiences, to be caught by the auri-comus
tangles of one or the flaxen fringe of the

other. He talked of them to their brother as nice
girls, with no nonsense about them ; he gave them
gloves, and dinners, and stalls for ' Madame
Ingot j but his appreciation took no higher form.
It would have been a fine thing for one of you
if you could have hooked him/ said their brother,
as he smoked a final pipe, between midnight and
morning, in the untidy little drawing-room in South
Belgravia, after an evening with Beaumont.  He's
a heavy swell in Cornwall, I can tell you. Plenty
of money  fine old place. But there's a girl down
there he's sweet upon  a cousin. He's very close ;
but I caught him kissing and crying over her photograph
one night in the Cockles  when our rations
had run short, and two of our horses gone dead,
and our best guide was down with ague, and there
was an idea that we'd lost our track, and should
never see England again. That's the only time
I ever saw Tregonell sentimental. ' I'm not afraid
of death,' he said, ' but I should like to live to see
home again, for her sake ;' and he showed me the
photo  a sweet, fresh, young face, smiling at us with
a look of home and home-affliction, and we poor

beggars not knowing if we should ever see a woman's
face again."

If you knew he was in love with his cousin,
what's the use of talking about his marrying us ?'
asked Mopsy petulantly, speaking of herself and
her sister as if they were a firm.

Oh, there's no knowing," answered Jack, coolly,
as he puffed at his meerschaum. " A man may
change his mind. Girls with your experience ought
to be able to twist a fellow round your little finger.
But though you're deuced keen at getting things
out of men, you're uncommonly slow at bringing
down your bird."

' Look at our surroundings," said Dopsy bitterly.
Could we ever dare to bring a man here ; and it
is in her own home that a man gets fond of a girl."

'' Well, a fellow would have to be very far gone
to stand this," Captain Vandeleur admitted, with a
shrug of his shoulders, as he glanced round the room,
with its blotchy paper, and smoky ceiling, its tawdry
chandelier, and dilapidated furniture, flabby faded
covers to chairs and sofa, side-table piled with
shabby books and accumulated newspapers, the

half-pay father's canes and umbrellas in the corner,
his ancient slippers by the fender, his easy-chair,
with its morocco cover indented with the greasy
imprint of his venerable shoulders, and over all the
rank odours of yesterday's dinner and stale tobacco-smoke.


A man in the last stage of smoothness will stand
anything  you remember the opening chapter of
 Wilhelm Meister ? " said Captain Jack, meditatively
 '* but heel need be very far gone to stand
thisbe he repeated, with conviction.

Six months after this conversation, Mopsy read
to Dopsy the announcement of Mr. TregonelFs
marriage with the Cornish cousin.

"We shall never see any more of him, you may
depends said Dopsy, with the air of pronouncing
an elegy on the ingratitude of man. But she was
wrong, for two years later Leonard Tregonell was
knocking about town again, in the height of the
season, with Poker Vandeleur, and the course of his
diversions included a little dinner given to Dopsy
and Mopsy at a choice Italian restaurateur's not
very far from South Belgravia.

They both made themselves as agreeable as in them
lay. He was married. All matrimonial hopes in
that quarter were blighted. But marriage need not
prevent his giving them dinners and stalls for the
play or being a serviceable friend to their brother.

' Poor Jacks friends are his only reliable income"
said Mopsy. " He had need hold them fast."'''

Mopsy put on her lively Madame Beaumont
manner,, and tried to amuse the Benedict. Dopsy
was graver and talked to him about his wife.

She must be very sweet'' she said , *' from
Jack's account of here''

' Why he's never seen her' exclaimed Mr.
Tregonellj looking puzzled.

No ; but you showed him her photograph once
in the Bodies. Jack never forgot it."

Leonard was pleased at this tribute to his good
taste.

She's the loveliest woman I ever saw though
she is my wife' he said; ' and I'm not ashamed to
say I think so."

How I should like to know her' sighed Dopsy ;
 but I'm afraid she seldom comes to London."

That makes no differences answered Leonard,
warmed into exceptional good humour by the soft
influences of Italian cookery and Italian wines.
'f Why should not you both come to Mount Royal ?
I want Jack to come for the shooting. He can
bring you , and you'll be able to amuse my wife,
while he and I are out on the hills'

It would be quite too lovely, and we should
like it of all things ; but do you think Mrs.
Tregonell would be able to get on with us V asked
Dopsy, diffidently.

It was not often she and her sister were asked to
country houses. They were both fluttered at the
idea, and turned their thoughts inward for a mental
review of their wardrobes.

We could do it," decided Mopsy,  with a little
help from Jack."

Nothing more was said about the visit that night,
but a month later, when Leonard had gone back to
Mount Royal, a courteous letter from Mrs. Trego-
nell to Miss Vandeleur confirmed the Squire's
invitation, and the two set out for the West of
England under their brother's wing, rejoicing at

this stroke of good luck. Christabel had been told
that they were nice girls , just the kind of girls to
be useful in a country house  girls who had very
few opportunities of enjoying life, and to whom any
kindness would be a charity  and she had done her
husbands bidding without an objection of any kind.
But when the two damsels appeared at Mount
Royal tightly sheathed in sage-green merino, with
limp little capes on their shoulders, and picturesque
hats upon picturesque heads of hair,
Mrs. Oregon ell's heart failed her at the idea of a
month spent in such company. Without caring a
straw for art, without knowing more of modern
poetry than the names of the poets and the covers
of their books, Mopsy and Dopsy had been shrewd
enough to discover that for young women with
narrow means the aesthetic style of dress was by far
the safest fashion. Stuff might do duty for silk 
a sunflower, if it were only big enough, might make
as startling an effect as a blaze of diamonds  a rag
of limp tulle or muslin serve instead of costly lace 
hair worn after the ideal suffice instead of expensive
headgear, and home dressmaking pass current for

originality. Christabel speedily found,, however that
these damsels were not exacting in the matter of
attention from herself. So long as they were
allowed to be with the men they were happy. In
the billiard-room, or the tennis-court, in the old
Tudor hall, which was Leonardoss favourite tahagie,
in the saddle-room, or the stable-yard, on the hills,
or on the sea, wherever the men would suffer their
presence, Dopsy and Mopsy were charmed to be.
On those rare occasions when the out-of-door party
was made up without them they sat about the
drawing-room in hopeless, helpless idleness  turning
over yesterday's London papers, or stumbling through
German waltzes on the iron-framed Kirkman grand,
which had been Leonardoss birthday gift to his wife.
At their worst the Miss Vandeleurs gave Christabel
very little trouble, for they felt curiously shy in her
society. She was not of their world. They had not one
thought or one taste in common. Mrs. Torrington,
who insisted upon taking her hostess under her
wing, was a much more troublesome person. The
Vandeleur girls helped to amuse Leonard, who
laughed at their slang and their mannishuess, and

who liked the sound of girlish voices in the house 
albeit those voices were loud and vulgar. They
made themselves particularly agreeable to Jessie
Bridgeman, who declared that she took the keenest
interest in them  as natural curiosities.

Why should we pore over moths and zoophytes,
and puzzle our brains with long Greek and Latin
names' demanded Jessie, "when our own species
affords an inexhaustible variety of creatures, all infinitely
interesting. These Vandeleur girls are as new
to me as if they had dropped from Mars or Saturn."

Life, therefore, to all outward seeming, went
very pleasantly at Moist Royal. A perfectly
appointed house in which money is spent lavishly
can hardly fail to be agreeable to those casual
inmates who have nothing to do with its maintenance.
To Dopsy and Mopsy Mount Royal was
a terrestrial paradise. They had never imagined
an existence so entirely blissful. This perfumed
atmosphere  this unfailing procession of luxurious
meals  no cold mutton to hang on hand  no
beggarly mutation from bacon to bloater and bloater
to bacon at breakfast-time  no wolf at the door.

To think that money can make all this differences
exclaimed Mopsy, as she sat with Dopsy on a
heather-covered knoll waiting for the shooters to
join them at luncheon while the servants grouped
themselves respectfully a little way off with the
break and horses. ' Won't it be too dreadful to have
to go home again T'

Loathsome V said Dopsy, whose conversational
strength consisted in the liberal use of about half a
dozen vigorous epithets.

'' I wish there were some rich young men
staying here, that one might get a chance of
promotions

' Rich men never marry poor girls answered
Mopsy, dejectedly, * unless the girl is a famous
beauty or a favourite actress. You and I are
nothing. Heaven only knows what is to become
of us when the pater dies. Jack will never be
able to give us free quarters. We shall have to
go out as shop girls. Were a great deal too ignorant
for governesses."

I shall go on the stage," said Dopsy, with
decision. ' I may not be handsome  but I can

sing in tune, and my feet and ankles have always
been my strong point. All the rest is leather and
prunella, as Shakespeare says/

I shall engage myself to Spies and Pond'
said Mopsy. " It must be a more lively life, and
doesn't require either voice or ankles  which V 
rather vindictively  ' do not possess. 0 course
Jack won't like it  but I canst help that's

Thus, in the face of all that is loveliest and most
poetical in Nature  the dreamy moorland  the
distant sea  the Lion-rock with the afternoon sunshine
on it the blue boundless sky  and one
far-away sail, silvered with light, standing out
against the low dark line of Lundyy Island  debated
Mopsy and Dopsy, waiting with keen appetites for
the game pasty, and the welcome bottle or two of
Most, which they were to share with the sportsmen.

While these damsels thus beguiled the autumn
afternoon, Christabel and Jessie had sallied out
alone for one of their old rambles ; such a solitary
walk as had been their delight in the careless long
ago, before ever passionate love, and sorrow, his
handmaiden, came to Mount Royal.

Mrs. Torrington and three other guestsliad left that
morning; the Vandeleurs and Reginald Montagu,
a free and easy little war-office clerk, were now
the only visitors at Mount loyal, and Mrs.
Tregonell Alas free to lead her own life  so with
Jessie and Randie for company, lie started at
noontide for Tintagel. She could never weary of
the walk by the cliffs  or even of the quiet country
road with its blossoming hedgerows and boundless
outlook. Every step of the way, every tint on
field or meadow, every change in sky and sea was
familiar to her, but she loved them all.

They had loitered in their ramble by the cliffs,
talking a good deal of the past, for Jessie was now
the only listener to whom Christabel could freely
open her heart, and she loved to talk with her of
the days that were gone, and of her first lover.
Of their love and of their parting she never spoke 
to talk of those things might have seemed treason
in the wedded wife  but she loved to talk of the
man himself  of his opinions, his ideas, the stories
he had told them in their many rambles  his creed,
his dreams  speaking of him always as " Mr. Ham-vol.

II. o

leigh'' and just as she might have spoken of any-clever
and intimate friend, lost to her, through
adverse circumstance, for ever. It is hardly likely,
since they talked of him so often when they were
alone, that they spoke of him more on this day
than usual : but it seemed to them afterwards as if
they had done so  and as if their conversation in
sometime forecast that which was to happen before
yonder sun had dipped behind the wave.

They climbed the castle hill, and seated themselves
on a low fragment of wall with their faces
seaward. There was a lovely light on the sea,
scarcely a breath of wind to curl the edges of the
long waves which rolled slowly in and slid over
the dark rocks in shining slabs of emerald-tinted
water. Here and there deep purple patches showed
where the sea weed grew thickest, and here and there
the dark outline of a convocation of shags stood
out sharply above the crest of a rock.

 It was on just such a day that we first brought
Mr. Harleigh to this place'' said Christabel.

Yes, our Cornish autumns are almost always
lovely, and this year the weather is particularly

mild' answered Jessie, in her matter-of-fact way.
She always put on this air when she saw Christened
drifting into dangerous feeling. " I shouldn't
wonder if we were to have a second crop of strawberries
this year''

 Do you remember how we talked of Tristan
and Iseult  poor Iseult ?"

"Poor Marc, I think."

' Marc ? One can't pity him. He was an ingrate,
and a coward."

He was a man and a husband' retorted
Jessie ; " and he seems to have been badly treated
all round."

' Whither does he wander now ?" said Chris-abel
, softly repeating lines learnt long ago.

Haply in his dreams the wind
"Wafts him here and lets him find
The lovely orphan child again,

In her castle by the coast ;
The youngest fairest chatelaine,

That this realm of France can boast,
Our snowdrop by the Atlantic sea,
Iseult of Brittany."

Poor Iseult of the AVhite Hand' said a voice

at Christabers shoulder, " after all was not her lot
the saddest  had not she the best claim to our
pity r'

Christabel started, turned, and she and Angus
Harleigh looked in each others faces in the clear
bright light. It was over four years since they had
parted, tenderly, fondly, as plighted husband and
wife, locked in each other's arms, promising each
other speedy reunion, ineffably happy in their
assurance of a future to be spent together : and now
they met with pale cheeks, and lips dressed in a
society smile  eyes  to which tears would have been
a glad relief  assuming a careless astonishment.

You here, Mr. Harleigh V cried Jessie, seeing
Christabers lips quiver dumbly, as if in the vain
attempt at words, and rushing to the rescue.  We
were told you where in Russia''

I have been in Russia. I spent last winter at
Petersburg  the only place where caviare and
Adeline Patti are to be enjoyed in perfection  and
I spent a good deal of this summer that is just gone
in the Caucasus'

' How nice V exclaimed Jessie, as if he had been

talking of Buxton or Malvern. ' And did you
really enjoy it?'

Immensely. All I ever saw in Switzerland
is as nothing compared with the gloomy grandeur
of that mighty semicircle of mountain peaks , of
which ElburZ; the shining mountain, the throne
of Ormuz, occupies the centre.''

"And how do you happen to be here  on this
insignificant mound T' asked Jessie.

Tintagel's surge-beat hill can never seem insignificant
to me. National poetry has peopled it 
vhile the Caucasus is only a desert. ''
Are you touring V

No, I am staying with the Vicar of Trevena.
He is an old friend of my father's : they were college
chums ; and Mr. Carlyon is always kind to me.''

Mr. Carlyon was a new vicar, who had come
to Trevena within the last two years.

' Shall you stay long T' asked Christabel, intones
which had a curiously flat sound, as of a
voice produced by mechanism.

I think not. It is a delicious place to stay at,
but ''

A little of it goes a long ways said Jessie.

You have not quite anticipated my sentiments.
Miss Bridgeman. I was going to say that unfortunately
for me I have engagements in London
which will prevent my staying here much longer.'

You are not looking over robust said Jessie,
touched with pity by the sad forecast which she
saw in his faded eyes , his hollow cheeks, faintly
tinged with hectic bloom. '' Fm afraid the
Caucasus was rather too severe a training for
you."

' A little harder than the ordeal to which you
submitted my locomotive powers some years ago'
answered Angus, smiling ; " but how can a man
spend the strength of his manhood better than in
beholding the wonders of creation ? It is the best
preparation for those still grander scenes which
one faintly hopes to see by-and-by among the
stars. According to the Platonic theory a man
must train himself for immortality. He who goes
straight from earthly feasts and junkettings will get
a bad time in the under world, or may have to work
out his purgation in some debased brute form."

Poor fellows thought Jessie,, with a sigh, " I
suppose that kind of feeling is his nearest approach
to religions

Christabel sat very still, looking steadily towards
Lundyy, as if the only desire in her mind were to
identify yonder vague streak of purplish brown or
brownish purple with the level strip of land chiefly
given over to rabbits. Yet her heart was aching
and throbbing passionately all the while ; and the
face at which she dared scarce look was vividly
before her mental sight  sorely altered from the
day she had last seen it smile upon her in love
and confidence. But mixed with the heartache
there was joy. To see him again, to hear his voice
again  what could that be but happiness ?

She knew that there was delight in being with
him, and she told herself that she had no right to
linger. She rose with an automatic air. " Come,
Jessie, she said : and then she turned with an effort
to the man whose love she had renounced, whose
heart she had broken.

Good-by V' she said, holding out her hand, and
looking at him with calm, grave eyes. " I am

very glad to have seen you again. I hope you
always think of me as your friend ?"

Yes Mrs. Tregonell I can afford now to
think of you as a friend'' he answered, gravely,
gently, holding her hand With a lingering grasp, and
looking solemnly into the sweet pale face.

He shook hands cordially with Jessie Bridgeman,
and they left him standing amidst the low grass-hidden
graves of the unknown dead  a lonely
figure looking seaward.

' Oh ! Jessie, do you remember the day we first
came here with him?" cried Christabel, as they
went slowly down the steep winding path. The
exclamation sounded almost like a cry of pain.

' Am I ever likely to forget it  or anything
connected with him ? You have given me no
chance of that," retorted Miss Bridgeman , sharply.

How bitterly you say that!"

Can I help being bitter dien I see you
nursing morbid feelings ? Am I to encourage you
to dwell upon dangerous thoughts ?"

They are not dangerous. I have taught myself
to think of Angus as a friend  and a friend only.

If I could see him now and then  even as briefly
as we saw him to-day  I think it would make me
quite happy."

You don't know what you are talking about !"
said Jessie, angrily. " Certainly you are not much
like other women. You are a piece of icy propriety
 your love is a kind of milk-and-watery sentiment,
which would never lead you very far astray.
I can fancy you behaving somewhat in the style of
Wethers Charlotte  who is, to my mind, one of the
most detestable women in fiction. Yes ! Goethe has
created two women dio are the opposite poles of
feeling  Gretchen and Lottie  and I would stake
my faith that Gretchen the fallen has a higher
place in heaven than Lottie the impeccable. I
hate such dull purity, which is always lined with
selfishness. The lover may slay himself in his
anguish  but she  yes  Thackeray has said it  she
goes on cutting bread and bitter V

Jessie gave a little hysterical laugh, which she
accentuated by a leap from the narrow path where
she had been walking to a boulder four or five feet
below.

How madly you talk, Jessie. You remind meo
Scott's Fenella  and I believe you are almost as
wild a creature' said Christabel.

Yes ! I suspect there is a spice of gipsy blood in
my veins. I am subject to these occasional outbreaks
 these revolts against Philistinism. Life is
so steeped in respectability  the dull level morality
which prompts every man to do what his neighbour
thinks he ought to do, rather than to be set in
motion by the fire that burns within him. This
dread of one's neighbour  this slavish respect for
public opinion  reduces life to mere mechanism
society to a stage play'

CHAPTER X.

' BUT IT Suffices, THAT THE DAY WILL END."

Christabel said no word to her husband about
that unexpected meeting with Angus Harleigh.
She knew that the name was obnoxious to Leonard,
and she shrank from a statement which might provoke
unpleasant speech on his part. Mr. Harleigh
would doubtless have left Trevena in a few days 
there was no likelihood of any further meeting.

The next day was a blank day for the Miss
Vandeleurs, who found themselves reduced to the
joyless society of their own sex.

The harriers met at Trevena at ten o'clock, and
thither, after an early breakfast, rode Mr. Tregonell,
Captain Vandeleur, and three or four other kindred
spirits. The morning was showery and bluster,
and it was in vain that Dopsy and Mopsy hinted
their desire to be driven to the meet. They were
not horsewomen  from no want of pluck or ardour

for the chase  but simply from the lack of that
material part of the business, horses. Many and
many a weary summer day had they paced the path
beside Rotten Kow, wistfully regarding the riders,
and thinking what a seat and what hands they
would have had, if Providence had only given them
a mount. The people who do not ride are the
keenest critics of horsemanship.

Compelled to find their amusements within doors,
Dopsy and Mopsy sat in the morning-room for half
an hour, as a sacrifice to good manners, paid a duty
visit to the nurseries to admire ChristabeFs baby-boy,
and then straggled off to the billiard-room, to
play each other, and improve their skill at that
delightfully masculine game. Then came luncheon
at which meal, the gentlemen being all away, and
the party reduced to four, the baby-boy was
allowed to sit on his mother's lap, and make occasional
raids upon the table furniture, while the
Miss Vandeleurs made believe to worship him. He
was a lovely boy, with big blue eyes, wide with
wonder at a world which was still full of delight
and novel tv.

After liinclieon Mopsy and Dopsy retired to
their chamber, to concoct, by an ingenious process
of re-organization of the same atoms, a new costume
for the evening ; and as they sat at their work,
twisting and undoing bows and lace, and straightening
the leaves of artificial flowers, they again discoursed
somewhat dejectedly of their return to
South Belgravia, which could hardly be staved off
much longer.

 We have had a quite too delicious time," sighed
Mopsy, adjusting the stalk of a sunflower ; " but
if s rather a pity that all the men staying here have
been detrimental  not one worth catching

What does it matter V' ejaculated Dopsy. " If
there had been one worth catching, he wouldn't have
consented to be caught. He would have behaved
like that big jack Mr. Tregonell was trying for
the other morning : eaten up all our bait and gone
and sulked among the weeds''

'well, I'd have had a try for him, anyhow," said
Mopsy, defiantly, leaning her elbow on the dressing-table,
and contemplating herself deliberately in
the glass. " Oh, Dop, how old I'm getting. I

almost hate the daylight : it makes one look so
hideous

Yet neither Dopsy nor Mopsy thought herself
hideous at afternoon tea-time, when with complexions
improved by the powder puff, eyebrows
piquantly accentuated with Indian ink and loose
flowing tea-gowns of old gold sateen,, and older black
silk they descended to the library, eager to do
execution even on detrimental. The men's voices
sounded loud in the hall, as the two girls came
downstairs.

' Hope you have had a good time T' cried Mopsy,
in cheerful soprano tones.

' Splendid. Fm afraid Tregonell has lamed a
couple of his horses said Captain Vandeleur.

And Tve a shrewd suspicion that you've lamed
a thirds interjected Leonard in his strident tones.
You galloped Betsy Baker at a murderous rate.''''

* Nothing like taking them fast down hills
retorted Jack. " B. B. is as sound as a roach 
and quite as ugly."

 Never saw such break-neck work in my life,"
said Mr. Montagu, a small dandified person who

was always called " little Monty ' I'd rather ride
a horse with the Quern for a week than in this
country for a day"*

' Our country is as God made it/ answered
Leonard.

* I think Satan must have split it about a bit
afterwards," said Mr. Montagu.

AVellj Mops asked Leonard,, '' how did you and
Dop get rid of your day without us ?"

'' Oh, we were very happy. It was quite a relief
to have a nice honey day with dear Mrs. Tregonell/''
answered Mopsy, nothing offended by the free and
easy curtailment of her pet name. Leonard washer
benefactor, and a privileged person.

"Fve got some glorious news for you two girls"
said Mr. Tregonell, as they all swarmed into the library,
where Christabel was sitting in the widow's old place,
while Jessie Bridgeman filled her accustomed position
before the tea-table, the red glow of a liberal
wood fire contending with the pale light of one
low moderator lamp, under a dark velvet shade.

"What is it? Please, please tell."

I give it you in ten  a thousand  a million \"

cried Leonard flinging himself into the chair
next his wife, and with his eyes upon her face.
'Yonll never guess. I have found you an eligible
bachelor  a swell of the first water. He's a gentleman
whom a good many girls have tried for in their
time, IVe no doubt. Handsome, accomplished,
plenty of coin. He has had what the French calla
stormy youth, I believe ; but that doesn't matter.
He's getting on in years, and no doubt he's ready
to sober clown, and take to domesticity. Tve asked
him here for a fortnight to shoot woodcock, and to

offer his own unconscious breast as a mark for the
arrows of Cupid ; and I shall have a very poor opinion

of you two girls if you can't bring him to your feet
in half the time."

' At any rate Til try my hand at it'' said Mopsy.

Not that I care a straw for the gentleman, but

just to show you what I can do," she added, by way

of maintaining her maidenly dignity.

'' Of course you'll go in for the conquest as high

art, without any aiTiere pe7isee/' said Jack Yaudeleur.

' There never were such audacious flirts as my

sisters ; but there's no malice in themes

' You haven't told us your friends names said
Dopsy.

'Mr. Harleigh answered Leonard, with his
eyes still on his wife's face.

Christabel gave a little start, and looked at him
in undisguised astonishment.

' Surely you have not asked him  here ?" she
exclaimed.

Why not ? He was out with us to-day. He
is a jolly fellow ; rides uncommonly straight, though
he doesn't look as if there were much life in him.
He tailed off early in the afternoon ; but while he
did go, he went doomed well. He rode a doomed
fine horse, too.''

' I thought you were prejudiced against him,"
said Christabel, very slowly.

' Why, so I was, till I saw him," answered
Leonard, with the friendliest air. " I fancied he
was one of your sickly, sentimental twaddle, with
long hair, and a taste for poetry ; but I find he is
a fine, manly fellow, with no nonsense about him.
So I asked him here, and insisted upon his saying
yes. He didn't seem to want to come, which is

VOL. II. p

odd for lie made himself very much at home herein
my mother's time, Tve heard. However,, he gave
in when I pressed him ; and he'll he here hy dinner-time
to-morrow."

' By dinner-times' thought Mopsy, delighted.
'then he'll see us first by candlelight, and first
impressions may do so much''

Isn't it almost like a fairy tale ?'' said Dopsy,
as they were dressing for dinner, with a vague
recollection of having cultivated her imagination in
childhood. She had never done so since that
juvenile age. '' Just as we were sighing for the
prince he comes''

True' said Mopsy ; " and he will go Just as all
the other fairy princes have gone, leaving us alone
upon the dreary high road, and riding off to the
fairy princesses who have good homes, and good
clothes, and plenty of money."

The high-art toilets were postponed for the
following evening, so that the panoply of woman's
war might be fresh ; and on that evening Mopsy
and Dopsy, their long limbs sheathed in sea-green
velveteen, Toby-frills round their necks, and sunflowers

on their shoulders, were gracefully grouped
near the fireplace in the pink and white panelled
drawing-room, waiting for Mr. Hamleighs arrival.

I wonder why all the girls make themselves
walking advertisements of the Sun Fire Offices
speculated Mr. Montagu, taking a prosaic view of
the Vandeleur sunflowers, as he sat by Miss
Bridgemans work-basket.

Don't you know that sunflowers are so beautifully
Greek T' asked Jessie. " They have been the
only flower in fashion since Alma Tadema took to
painting them  fountains, and marble balustrades,
and Italian skies, and beautiful women, and 


Yes ; but we get only the sunflowers.'

Mr. Harleigh !" said the butler at the open
door, and Angus came in, and went straight to
Christabel, who was sitting opposite the group of
sea-green Wanderers, slowly fanning herself with a
big black fan.

Nothing could be calmer than their meeting.
This time there was no surprise, no sudden shock,
no dear familiar scene, no solemn grandeur of

r 2

Nature to make all effort at simulation unnatural.
The atmosphere to-night was as conventional as the
men's swallowed-tailed coats and white ties. Yet
in Angus HamleigVs mind there was the picture of
his first arrival at Mount Royal  the firelight room,
Christabel's girlish figure kneeling on the hearth.
The figure was a shade more matronly now, the
carriage and manner were more dignified ; but the
face had lost none of its beauty, or of its divine
candour.

I am very glad my husband persuaded you to
alter your plans , and to stay a little longer in the
"West/ she said, with an unfaltering voice; and then,
seeing Mopsy and Dopsy looking at Mr. Harleigh
with admiring expectant eyes, she added, ' Let me
introduce you to these young ladies who are staying
with us  Mr. Harleigh, Miss Yandeleur, Miss
Margaret Vandeleur.'''

Dopsy and Mopsy smiled their sweetest smiles,
and gave just the most aesthetic inclination of each
townley head.

'1 suppose you have not long come from London ?''
murmured Dopsy, determined not to lose a moment.

Have you seen all the new things at the theatres ?
I hope you are an Irvingite V

' I regret to say that my religious opinions have
not yet taken that bent. It is a spiritual height
which I feel myself too weak to climb. I have
never been able to believe in the unknown tongues."

' Ah, now you are going to criticize his
pronunciation instead of admiring his genius said
Dopsy, who had never heard of Edward Irving and
the Latter Day Saints.

If you mean Henry Irving the tragedian, I
admire him immensely said Mr. Harleigh.

Then we are sure to get on. I felt that you
must be simpatica/' replied Dopsy, not particular
as to a gender in a language which she only knew
by sight, as Bannister knew Greek.

Dinner was announced at this moment, and Mrs.
Tregonell won Dopsys gratitude by asking Mr.
Harleigh to take her into dinner. Mr. Montagu
gave his arm to Miss Bridgeman, Leonard took
Mopsy, and Christabel followed with Major Bree,
who felt for her keenly, wondering how she managed
to bear herself so bravely, reproaching the dead

woman in his mind for having parted two faithful
hearts.

He was shocked by the change in Angus , obvious
even to-night, albeit the soft lamplight and evening
dress were flattering to his appearance ; but he said
no word of that change to Christabel.

I have been having a romp with my godson
he said, when they were seated, knowing that this
was the one topic likely to cheer and interest his
hostess.

I am so glad," she answered, lighting up at
once, and unconscious that Angus was trying to see
her face under the low lamplight, which made it
necessary to bend one's head a little to see ones
opposite neighbour. " And do you think he is
grown? It is nearly ten days since you saw him,
and he grows so fast."

He is a young Hercules. If there were any
snakes in Cornwall he would be capable of strangling
a brace of them. I suppose Leonard is
tremendously proud of him."

Yes," she answered with a faint sigh.  I think
Leonard is proud of him."

"But not quite so fond of him as you are'
replied Major Bree, interpreting her emphasis.
'' That is only natural. Infantolatry is a feminine
attribute. Wait till the boy is old enough to go out
iishin' and shooting '' the Major was too much a
gentleman to pronounce a final g  " and then see
if his father don't dote upon him''

I dare say he will be very fond of him then.
But I shall be miserable every hour he is out."

Of course. Women ought to have only girls
for children. There should be a race of man-mothers
to rear the boys. I wonder Plato didn't
suggest that in his Republic."

Mr. Harleigh, with his head gently bent over his
soup-plates had contrived to watch Christabel's face
while politely replying to a good deal of gush on
the part of the fair Dopsy. He saw that expressive
face light up with smiles, and then grow earnest.
She was full of interest and animation and her
candid look showed that the conversation was one
which all the world might have heard.

She has forgotten me. She is happy in her
married life," he said to himself, and then he looked

to the other end of the table where Leonard sat,
burly, florid, black-haired, mutton-chop whiskered,
the very essence of Philistinism  '' happy  with
him/

And I am sure you must adore Ellen Terry,"
said Dopsy, whose society-conversation was not a
many-stringed instrument.

'' Who could live and not worship her?" ejaculated
Mr. Harleigh.

'' Irving as Shylock !" sighed Dopsy.

Miss Terry as Portia," retorted Angus.

Unutterably sweet, was she not ?"

"Her movements were like a sonata by Beethoven
her gowns were the essence of all that Rubens
and Vandyke ever painted."

' I knew you would agree with me," exclaimed
Dopsy. " And do you think her pretty ?"

Pretty is not the word. She is simply divine.
Greuze might have painted her  there is no living
painter whose palette holds the tint of those blue
eyes."

Dopsy began to giggle softly to herself, and to
flutter her fan with maiden modesty.

"1 hardly like to mention it after what you
have said'' she murmured " but "

'' Pray be explicit'

I have been told that I am rather'  another
faint giggle and another flutter  '' like Miss Terry."

' I never met a fair haired girl yet who had not
been told as much' answered Mr. Harleigh coolly.

Dopsy turned crimson and felt that this particular
arrow had missed the gold. Mr. Harleigh
Alas not quite so easy to get on with as her hopeful
fancy had painted him.

After dinner there was some music, in which
art neither of the Miss Vandeleurs excelled. Indeed,,
their time had been too closely absorbed by
the ever pressing necessity for cutting and contriving
to allow of the study of art and literature.
They knew the names of writers and the outsides
of books, and they adored the opera and enjoyed
a ballad concert, if the singers were popular, and
the audience well dressed; and this was the limit
of their artistic proclivities. They sat stifling
their yawns, and longing for an adjournment
to the billard room  whither Jack Vandcleur

and Mr. Montagu had departed  while Christabel
played a capriccio by Mendelssohn. Mr. Hamleigli
sat by the piano listening to every note.
Leonard and Major Bree lounged by the fireplace,
Jessie Bridgeman sitting near them, absorbed in
her crewel work.

It was what Mopsy and Dopsy called a very
slow'' evening, despite the new interest afforded
by Mr. Harleigh's presence. He was very handsome,
very elegant, with an inexpressible something
in his style and air which Mopsy thought poetical.
But it was weary work to sit and gaze at him as if
he were a statue, and that long capriccio, with
a little Beethoven to follow, and a good deal of
[Mozart after that, occupied the best part of the
evening. To the ears of Mop and Dop it was all
tweedledum and tweedledee. They would have
been refreshed by one of those lively melodies in
which Miss Barren so excels; they would have
welcomed a familiar strain from Choleric or
Madame Ingot. Yet they gushed and said, " too
delicious  quite too utterly lovely," when Mrs.
Tregonell rose from the piano.

' I only hope I have not wearied everybody'
she said.

Leonard and Major Bree had been talking
local politics all the time, and both expressed
themselves much gratified by the music. Mr.
Harleigh murmured his thanks.

Christabel went to her room wondering that the
evening had passed so calmly  that her heart 
though it had ached at the change in Angus
Harleigh's looks, had been in no wise tumultuously
stirred by his presence. There had been a
peaceful feeling in her mind rather than agitation.
She had been soothed and made happy by his
society. If love still lingered in her breast it was
love purified of every earthly thought and hope.
She told herself sorrowfully that for him the sand
ran low in the glass of earthly time, and it was
sweet to have him near her for a little while towards
the end; to be able to talk to him of serious
things  to inspire hope in a soul whose natural
bent was despondency. It would be sadly, unutterably
sweet to talk to him of that spiritual
world whose unearthly light already shone in the

too brilliant eye and coloured the hollow cheek.
She had found Mr. Harleigh despondent and sceptical
but never indifferent to religion. He was
not one of that eminently practical school which,
in the words of Matthew Arnold, thinks it more
important to learn how buttons and papier-rnclc heare
made than to search the depths of conscience,
or fathom the mysteries of a Divine Providence.

Christabels first sentiment when Leonard announced
Mr. Hamleighs intended visit had been
horror. How could they two who had loved so
deeply, parted so sadly, live together under the same
roof as if they were every day friends ? The thing
seemed fraught with danger, impossible for peace.
But when she remembered that calm, almost solemn
look with which he had shaken hands with her
among the graves at Tintagel, it seemed to her
that friendship  calmest, purest, most unselfish
attachment  was still possible between them. She
thought so even more hopefully on the morning
after Mr. Harleigh's arrival, when he took her
boy in his arms, and pressed his lips lovingly upon
the bright baby brow.

' You are fond of children's exclaimed Mopsj-,
prepared to gush.

'' Very fond of some children's he answered
gravely. ' I shall be very fond of this boy, if he
will let me.

' Leo is such a darling  and he takes to you
already said Mopsy, seeing that the child graciously
accepted Mr. Harleigh's attentions, and
even murmured an approving ' gur"*  followed by
a simple one-part melody of gurgling noises  but
whether in approval of the gentlemen himself or
of his watch-chain, about which the pink flexible
fingers had wound themselves, was an open question.

This was in the hall after breakfast, on a
bright sunshiny morning  doors and windows
open, and the gardens outside all bloom with
chrysanthemums and scarlet geraniums ; the gentlemen
of the party standing about with their guns
ready to start. Mopsy and Dopsy were dressed in
home-made gowns of dark brown serge which
simulated the masculine simplicity of tailor-made
garments. They wore coquettish little toques of
the same dark brown stuff, also home-made  and

BUT IT Suffices,

surelyif a virtuous man contending with calamities
a spectacle meet for the gods to admire a needy
young woman making her own raiment is at least
worthy of human approval.

You are coming with us aren't you Harleigh'
asked Leonard, seeing Angus still occupied with
the child.

No, thanks ; I don't feel in good form for
woodcock shooting. My cough was rather troublesome
last night .

Mopsy and Dopsy looked at each other despairingly.
Here was a golden opportunity lost. If
it were only possible to sprain an ankle on the
instant.

Jack Vandeleur was a good brother  so long as
fraternal kindness did not cost money  and he
saw that look of blank despair in poor Dopsys eyes
and lips.

I think Mr. Harleigh is wisest he said. " This
bright morning will end in broken weather.
Hadn't you two girls better stay at home ? The
rain will spoil your gowns'

Our gowns won't hurts said Mopsy brightening.

'' But do you really think there will be rain ?
We had so set our hearts on going with yon ; but
it is rather miserable to be out on those hills in a
blinding rain. One might walk over the edge of a
cliffs

Keep on the safe side and stay at home' said
Leonard,, with that air of rough good nature which
is such an excellent excuse for bad manners. " Come
PontO; come Juno hi Delia' this to the lovely
lemon and white spaniels fawning upon him with
mute affection.

I think we may as well give it up' said
Dopsy, " we shall be a nuisance to the shooters if
it rains."

So they stayed, and beguiled Mr. Harleigh to
the billiard room, where they both played against
him, and were beaten  after which Mopsy entreated
him to give her a lesson in the art, declaring that
he played divinely  in such a quite style  so very
superior to Jack's or Mr. Tregonell's, though l)()tli
those gentlemen were good players. Angus consented,
kindly enough, and gave both ladies the
most careful instruction in the art of making

pockets and cannons ; but lie was wondering all the
while how Christabel was spending her morning,
and thinking how sweet it would have been to have
strolled with her across the hills to the quiet little
church in the dingle where he had once dreamed
they two might be married.

I was a fool to submit to delays he thought,
remembering all the pain and madness of the past.
If I had insisted on being married here  and at
once  how happy  oh God !  how happy we might
have been. Well, it matters little, now that the
road is so near the end. I suppose the dismal
close would have come just as soon if my way of
life had been strewed with flowers.

It was luncheon-time before the Miss Wanderers
consented to release him. Once having got
him in their clutch he was as firmly held as if he
had been caught by an octopus. Christabel wondered
a little that Angus Harleigh should find
amusement for his morning in the billiard room,
and in such society.

'' Perhaps, after all, the Miss Vandeleurs are the
kind of girls whom all gentlemen admires she

said to Jessie. " I know I thought it odd that
Leonard should admire them; but you see Mr.
Harleigh is equally pleased with themes

'' Mr. Harleigh is nothing of the kind'
answered Jessie in her usual decided way.  But
Dop is setting her cap at him in a positively disgraceful
manner-seven for Dop.'

' Pray don't call her by that horrid names''

Why not ; it is what her brother and sister call
hers and it expresses her so exactly .''

Mr. Harleigh and the two damsels now appeared,
summoned by the gong, and they all went
into the dining-room. It was quite a merry luncheon
party. Care seemed to have no part in that
cheery circle. Angus had made up his mind to
be happy, and Christabel was as much at ease with
him as she had been in those innocent, unconscious
days when he first came to Mount Royal. Dopsy
-was in high spirits, thinking that she was fast advancing
towards victory. Mr. Harleigh had been
so kind, so attentive, had done exactly what she
had asked him to do, and how could she doubt
that he had consulted his own pleasure in so doing.

VOL. II. Q

Poor Dopsy was accustomed to be treated with scant
ceremony by ber brothers acquaintance, and it did
not enter into ber mind that a man might be bored
by ber society, and not betray his weariness.

After luncheon Jessie, who was always energetic,
suggested a walk.

The threatened bad weather had not come : it
was a greyish afternoon, sunless but mild.

' If we walk towards St. Nectar's Sieve, we may
meet the shooters,'' said Christabel.  That is a great
place for woodcocks'

That will be delicious !" exclaimed Dopsy.  I
worship St. Nectans Sieve. Such a lovely ferny,
rocky, wild, watery spots' And away she and her
sister skipped, to put on the brown toques, and to
refresh themselves with a powder puff.

They started for their ramble with Randie, and a
favourite Slumber spaniel, degraded from his proud
position as a sporting dog, to the ignoble luxury of
a house pet, on account of an incorrigible desultoriness
in his conduct with birds.

These affectionate creatures frisked round Chris-abel,
while Miss Vandeleur and her sister seemed

almost as friskily to surround Mr. Harleigh with
their South Belgravian blandishments.

 You look as if you were not very strong'
'hazarded Dopsy, sympathetically. ' Are you not
afraid of a long walk ?"

Not at all ; I never feel better than when walking
on these hills' answered Angus.  It is almost
my native air, you see. I came here to get a stock
of rude health before I go to winter in the South.

'' And you are really going to be abroad all the
winter?" sighed Dopsy, as if she would have said,
'' How shall I bear my life in your absences

' Yes it is five years since I spent a winter in
England. I hold my life on that condition. I am
never to know the luxury of a London fog, or
see a Drury Lane pantomime, or skate upon the
Serpentine. A case of real distress, is it not ?"

Very sad  for your friends," said Dopsy ;
but I can quite imagine that you love the sunny
South. How I long to see the Mediterranean 
the mountains  the pine-trees  the border-land of
Italy."

No doubt you will go there some day  and be

q2

disappointed. People generally are when they
indulge in day-dreams about a places

My dreams will always be dreams answered
Dopsy , with a profound sigh : ' we are not rich
enough to travel'

Christabel walked on in front with Jessie and
the dogs. Mr. Harleigh was longing to be by
her side  to talk as they had talked of old  of a
thousand things which could be safely discussed
without any personal feeling. They had so many
sympathies,, so many ideas in common. All the
world of sense and sentiment was theirs whereinto
range at will. But Dopsy and Mopsy stuck to
him like burs ; plying him with idle questions and
stereotyped remarks looking at him with languishing
eyes.

He was too much a gentleman had too much
good feeling to be rude to them  but he was bored
excessively.

They went by the cliffs  a wild grand walk.
The wide Atlantic spread its dull leaden-coloured
waves before them under the grey sky  touched
with none of those translucent azure and carmine

which so often beautify that western sea. They
crossed a bit of hillocky common, and then went
down to look at a slate quarry under the cliff  a scene
of uncanny grandeur  grey and wild and desolate.

Dopsy and Mopsy gushed and laughed and declared
it was just the scene for a murder or a
duel, or something dreadful and dramatic. The
dogs ran into all manner of perilous places, and had
to be called away from the verge of instant death.

"Are you fond of aristocratic society. Miss
Vandeleur V asked Angus.

Mopsy pleaded guilty to a prejudice in favour
of the Upper Ten.

Then allow me to tell you that you were never
in the company of so many duchesses and countesses
in your life as you are at this moments

Mopsy looked mystified, until Miss Bridgeman
explained that these were the names given to
slates of particular sizes, great stacks of which,
stood on either side of them ready for shipment.

' How absurd, exclaimed Mopsy.

Everything must have a name, even the slate
that roofs your scullery''

From the quarry they strolled across the fields
to the high road and the gate of the farm-which
contains within its boundary the wonderful waterfall
called St. Nectan's Sieve.

They met the sportsmen coming out of the
hollow with well-filled game-bags.

Leonard was in high spirits.

 So you\e all come to meet us/ he said, looking
at his wife, and from his wife to Angus Harleigh,
with a keen, quick glance, too swift to be remarkable.
' Uncommonly good of you. "We are going
to have a grand year for woodcock, I believe  like
the season of 1855, when a farmer at St. Bunyan
shot fifty-four in one week."'''

* Poor dear little birds V sighed Mopsy ; " I
feel so sorry for themes

'but that doesnH prevent your eating them,
with bread crumbs and gravy,"'-' said Leonard,
laughing.

'when they are once roasted, it can make no
difference who eats themes replied Mopsy ; ' but I
am intensely sorry for them all the same."

They all went home together, a cheery processions

with the dogs at their heels. Mr. 
efforts to escape from the two damsels who
had marked him for their own were futile : nothing
less than sheer brutality would have set him free.
They trudged along gaily, one on each side of him ;
they flattered him, they made much of him  a
man must have been stony-hearted to remain
untouched by such attentions. Angus was marble,
but he could not be uncivil. It was his nature to
be gentle to women. Mop and Dop were the kind
of girls he most detested  indeed, it seemed to him
that no other form of girlhood could be so detestable.
They had all the pertness of Bohemia without any
of its wit  they had all the audacity of the demimonde,
with far inferior attractions. Everything

about them was spurious and second-hand every

air and look and tone was put on, like a ribbon or a
flower, to attract attention. And could it be that
one of these meretricious creatures was angling for
him  for him, the Lauzun, the dEckmiihl, the
Prince de Belgioso, of his day  the born dandy,
with whom fastidiousness was a sixth sense? Intolerable
as the idea of being so pursued was to

him, Angus Harleigh could not bring himself to be
rude to a woman.

It happened, therefore, that from the beginning
to the end of that long ramble, he was never in
Mrs. TregonelFs society. She and Jessie walked
steadily ahead with their dogs, while the sportsmen
tramped slowly behind Mr. Harleigh and the two
girls.

Our friend seems to be very much taken by
your sisters said Leonard to Captain Vandeleur.

My sisters are deuced taking girls"* answered
Jack, puffing at his seventeenth cigarette ; " though
I suppose it isn't my business to say so. There's
nothing of the professional beauty about either of
em.'

Distinctly not \" said Leonard.

But they've plenty of chic  plenty of go 
savoir faire  and all that kind of thing, don't you
know. They're the most companionable girls I
ever met with \"

They're uncommonly jolly little builders !" said
Leonard, kindly, meaning it for the highest praise.

They've no fool's flesh about them," said Jack ;
 and they can make a fiver go further than any one

I know. A man might do worse than marry one
of them'

 Hardly !" thought Leonard, " unless he married
both'

It would be a fine thing for Dop if Mr.
Harleigh were to come to the scratch' mused
Jack.

' I wonder what was Leonard's motive in asking
Mr. Harleigh to stay at Mount Royal ?" said
Christabel; suddenly, after she and Jessie had been
talking of indifferent subjects.

I hope he had not any motive, but that the
invitation was the impulse of the moment, without
rhyme or reason," answered Miss Bridgeman.

"Why?"

"Because if he had a motive, I don't think it
could be a good one'

Might he not think it just possible that he was
finding a husband for one of his friend's sisters ?"
speculated Christabel.

Nonsense, my dear ! Leonard is not quite a
fool. If he had a motive, it was something very
different from any concern for the interests of Door

Mop  I will call them Dop and Mop : they are
so like if

In spite of Mopsy and Dopsy, there were hours
in which Angus Harleigh was able to enjoy the
society which had once been so sweet to him, almost
as freely as in the happy days that were gone.
Brazen as the two damsels were the feeling of self-respect
was not altogether extinct in their natures.
Their minds were like grass-plots which had been
trodden into mere clay, but where a lingering green
blade here and there shows that the soil had once
been verdant. Before Mr. Harleigh came to
Mount Royal, it had been their habit to spend
their evenings in the billiard-room with the gentlemen,
albeit Mrs. Tregonell very rarely left the
drawing-room after dinner, preferring the perfect
tranquillity of that almost deserted apartment, the
inexhaustible delight of her piano or her books,
with Jessie for her sole companion  nay, sometimes,
quite alone, while Jessie joined the revellers at
pool or shell-out. Dopsy and Mopsy could not
altogether alter their habits because Mr. Harleigh
spent his evenings in the drawing-room : the

motive for such a change would have been too
obvious. The boldest huntress would scarce thus
openly pursue her prey. So the Miss Vandeleurs
went regretfully with their brother and his host ,
and marked, or played an occasional four-game, and
made themselves conversationally agreeable all the
evening; while Angus Harleigh sat by the piano, and
gave himself up to dreamy thought, soothed by the
music of the great composers, played with a level perfection
which only years of careful study can achieve.
Jessie Bridgeman never left the drawing-room now
of an evening. Faithful and devoted to her duty of
companion and friend, she seemed almost Christened's
second self. There was no restraint, no
embarrassment, caused by her presence. What she
had been to these two in their day of joy, she was
to them in their day of sorrow, wholly and completely
one of themselves. She was no stony
guardian of the proprieties ; no bar between their
souls and dangerous memories or allusions. She
was their friend, reading and understanding the
minds of both.

It has been finely said by Matthew Arnold that

there are times when a man feels, in this life, the
sense of immortality ; and that feeling must surely
be strongest 'with him who knows that his race is
nearly run  who feels the rosy light of life's sunset
warm upon his face  who knows himself near the
lifting of the veil  the awful, fateful experiment
called death. Angus Harleigh knew that for
him the end was not far off  it might be less thana
year  more than a year  but he felt very sure
that this time there would be no reprieve. Not
again would the physician's sentence be reversed 
the physician's theories gainsay by facts. For
the last four years he had lived as a man lives who
has ceased to value his life. He had exposed himself
to the hardships of mountain climbing  he had
sat late in gaming saloons  not gambling himself,
but interested in a cynical way, as Balzac might
have been, in the hopes and fears of others  seeking
amusement wherever and however it was to be
found. At his worst he had never been a man
utterly without religion ; not a man who could willingly
forego the hope in a future life  but that hope,
until of late, had been clouded and dim Rabelais'

great perhaps, rather than the Christians assured
belief. As the cold shade of death drew nearer, the
horizon cleared, and he was able to rest his|hopes
in a fair future beyond the grave  an existence in
which a manes happiness should not be dependent
on the condition of his lungs, nor his career marred
by an hereditary taint in the blood  an existence in
which spirit should be divorced from clay, yet not
become so entirely abstract as to be incapable of
such pleasures as are sweetest and purest among the
joys of humanity  a life in which friendship and
love might still be known in fullest measure. And
now, with the knowledge that for him there remained
but a brief remnant of this earthly existence,
that were the circumstances of his life ever so full
of joy, that life itself could not be lengthened, it
was very sweet to him to spend a few quiet hours
with her who, for the last five years, had been the
pole-star of his thoughts. For him there could be
no arrive pense  no tending towards forbidden
hopes, forbidden dreams. Death had purified life.
It was almost as if he were an immortal spirit,
already belonging to another world, yet permitted

to revisit the old dead-antigone love below. For
such a man, and perhaps for such a man only, was
such a super-mundane love as poets and idealists
have imagined, all satisfying and all sweet. He was
not even jealous of his happier rival ; his only regret
was the too evident unworthiness of that rival.

If I had seen her married to a man I could
respect; if I could know that she was completely
happy ; that the life before her were secure from
all pain and evil, I should have nothing to regrets
he told himself; but the thought of Leonardoss
coarse nature was a perpetual grief. " When I
am lying in the long peaceful sleep, she will be
miserable with that mans' he thought.

One day when Jessie and he were alone together,
he spoke freely of Leonard.

I don't want to malign a man who has treated
me with exceptional kindness and cordiality , he
said, " above all a man whose mother I once loved, and
always respected  yes, although she was hard and
cruel to me  but I cannot help wishing that
ChristabeFs husband had a more sympathetic nature.
Now that my own future is reduced to a very short

span I find myself given to forecasting the future of

those I love  and it grieves me to think of

Christabel in the years to come  linked with a man
who has no power to appreciate or understand her
tied to the mill-wheel of domestic duty's

Yes, it is a hard cases answered Jessie, bitterly,
sone of those hard cases that so often come out of
people acting for the best, as they call it. No
doubt Mrs. Tregonell thought she acted for the best
with regard to you and Christabel. She did not know
how much selfishness  a selfish idolatry of her own
cub  was at the bottom of her over-righteousness.
She was a good woman  generous, benevolent  a
true friend to me  yet there are times when I feel
angry with her  even in her grave  for her treatment
of you and Christabel. Yet she died happy in the
belief in her own wisdom. She thought ChristabeFs
marriage with Leonard ought to mean bliss for
both. Because she adored her Cornish gladiator,
forsooth, she must needs liink every body else
ought to doat upon him.

You don't seem warmly attached to Mr. Tree
said Angus.

' I am not  and he knows that I am not. I
never liked him, and he never liked me and neither
of us have ever pretended to li ke each other. Weare
quits, I assure you. Perhaps you think it
rather horrid of me to live in a man's house  eat
his bread and drink his wine  one glass of claret
every day at dinner  and dislike him openly all the
time. But I am here because Christabel is here 
just as I would be with her in the dominions of
Arcus. She is  well  almost the only creature
I love in this world , and it would take a good
deal more than my dislike of her husband to part
us. If she had married a galley-slave I would have
taken my turn at the oars'

 You are as true as steel' said Angus; '' and I
am glad to think Christabel has such a friend'

To all the rest of the world he spoke of her as
Mrs. Tregonell, nor did he ever address her by any
other name. But to Jessie Bridgeman, who had been
with them in the halcyon days of their overtaking,
she was still Christabel. To Jessie,, and to none
other, could he speak of her with perfect freedom.

CHAPTER XI.

' WHO KNOWS NOT CIRCE ?"

The autumn days crept by, sometimes grey and
sad of aspect,, sometimes radiant and sunny, as
if summer had risen from her grave amidst
fallen leaves and faded heather. It was altogether
a lovely autumn, like that beauteous season of five
years ago, and Christabel and Angus wandered
about the hills, and lingered by the trout stream in
the warm green valley, almost as freely as they
had done in the past. They were never alone 
Jessie Bridgeman was always with them  very
often Dopsy and Mopsy  and sometimes Mr.
Tregonell with Captain Vandeleur and half a dozen
dogs. One day they all went up the hill, and
crossed the ploughed field to the path among the
gorse and heather above Pentargon Bay  and
Dopsy and Mopsy climbed crags and knolls, and
screamed afi'rightedly, and made a large display of

VOL. II. R

boots and were generally fascinating after their
manner.

If any place could tempt me to smoke it would
be tbis/ said Dopsy gazing seaward. All the
men except Angus were smoking. " I think
it must be utterly lovely to sit dreaming over a
cigarette in such a place as this.

'' What would you dream about asked Angus.
"A new bonnet ?''

Don't be cynical. You think I am awfully
shallow, because I am not a perambulating bookshelf
like Mrs. Tregonell, who seems to have read
all the books that ever were printers

 There you are wrong. She has read a few 
non multa sed multum  but they are the very best,
and she has read them well enough to remember
themes answered Angus, quietly.

"And Mop and I often read three volumes in a
day, and seldom remember a line of what we reads
sighed Dopsy. " Indeed, we are awfully ignorant.
Of course we learnt things at school  French and
German  Italian  natural history  physical geography
 geology  and all the enemies. Indeed,

I shudder when I remember what a lot of learning
was*, poured into our poor little heads, and how
soon it all ran out again."

Dopsy gave her most fascinating giggle, and satin
an aesthetic attitude idly plucking up faded
heather blossoms with a tightly gloved hand, and
wondering whether Mr. Harleigh noticed how
small the hand was. She thought she was going
straight to his heart with these naive confessions ;
she had always heard that men hated learned
women, and no doubt Mr. HamleigVs habit of
prosing about books with Mrs. Tregonell was
merely the homage he payed to his hostess.

You and Mrs. Tregonell are so dreadfully grave
y/hen you get together' pursued Dopsy, seeing that
her companion held his peace. She had contrived
to be by Mr. Harleigh's side when he crossed the
field, and had in a manner got possessed of him for
the rest of the afternoon, barring some violent
struggle for emancipation on his part. ' I always
wonder what you can find to say to each other''

I don't think there is much cause for wonder.
We have many tastes in common. Wc arc both

R 2

fond of music  of Nature  and of books. There is
a wide field for conversations' *

Why won't you talk with me of books. There
are some books I adore. Let us talk about Dickens."

"With all my heart. I admire every line he
wrote  I think him the greatest genius of this age.
We have had great writers  great thinkers  great
masters of style  but Scott and Dickens were the
Creators  they made new worlds and peopled them.
I am quite ready to talk about Dickens''

I don't think I could say a single word after
that outburst of yours' said Dopsy; "you go too
fast for me."

He had talked eagerly, willing to talk just now
even to Miss Vandeleur , trying not too vividly ta
remember that other day  that unforgotten hour
in which , on this spot, face to face with that ever
changing, ever changeless sea, he had submitted his
fate to Christabel, not daring to ask for her love,
warning her rather against the misery that might
come to her from loving him. And misery had
come, but not as he presaged. It had come from
his youthful sin, that one fatal turn upon the road

of life "which he had taken so lightly, tripping with
joyous companions along a path strewn with roses.
He, like so many, had gathered his roses while he
might, and had found that he had to bear the sting
of their thorns when he must.

Leonard came up behind them as they talked,
Mr. Harleigh standing by Miss Vandeleurs side,
digging his stick into the heather and staring idly
at the sea.

"What are you two talking about so earnestly ?
he asked ; " you are always together. I begin to
understand why Harleigh is so indifferent to
sports

The remark struck Argus as strange, as well as
underbred. Dopsy had contrived to inflict a good
deal of her society upon him at odd times ; but he
had taken particular care that nothing in his
bearing or discourse should compromise either
himself or the young lady.

Dopsy giggled faintly, and looked modestly at
the heather. It was still early in the afternoon,
and the western light shone full upon a face which
might have been pretty if Nature's bloom had not

long given place to the poetic pallor of the powder-puff.


' We were talking about Dickens said Dopsy 
with an elaborate air of struggling with the tumult
of her feelings. " Don't you adore him ?"

' If you mean the man who wrote books 1
never read em/ answered Leonard; 'Life isn't
long enough for books that don't teach you
anything. IVe read pretty nearly every book that
was ever written upon horses and dogs and guns , and
a good many on mechanics ; that's enough for me.
I don't care for books that only titillate one's
imagination. Why should one read books to make
oneself cry and to make oneself laugh? It's as
idiotic a habit as taking snuff to make oneself
sneeze''

That's rather a severe way of looking at the
subject' said Angus.

It's a practical way, that's all. My wife
surfeits herself with poetry. She is stuffed with
Tennyson and Browning, loaded to the very muzzle
with Byron and Shelley. She reads Shakespeare as-devoutly
as she reads her Bible. But I don't see that

it helps to make her pleasant company for her
husband or her friends. She is never so happy as
when she has her nose in a book; give her a
bundle of books and a candle and she would be
happy in the little house on the top of Willapark/'

'not without you and her boy'' said Dopsy,
gushingly. ' She could never exist without you
two.

Mr. Tregonell lit himself another cigar , and
strolled off without a word.

He has not lovable manners,, has he T*
inquired Dopsy, with her childish air; "but he is
so good-hearted.

No doubt. You have known him some time
haven't you? inquired Angus, who had been
struggling with an uncomfortable yearning to kick
the Squire into the Bay.

The scene offered such temptations. They
were standing on the edge of the amphitheatre, the
ground shelving steeply downward in front of them,
rocks and water below. And to think that she 
his dearest, she, all gentleness and refinement, was
mated to this coarse clay ! Was King Marc

such an one as this he wondered, and if he were, who
could be angry with Tristan  Tristan who died
longing to see his lost love  struck to death by his
wife's cruel lie  Tristan whose passionate soul
passed by metempsychosis into briar and leaf, and
crept across the arid rock to meet and mingle with
the beloved dead. Oh, how sweet and sad the
old legend seemed to Angus to-day, standing above
the melancholy sea, where he and she had stood
folded in each other's arms in the sweet triumphant
moment of love's first avowal.

Dopsy did not allow him much leisure for
mournful meditation. She prattled on in that
sweetly girlish manner which was meant to be all
spirit and sparkle  glancing from theme to theme,
like the butterfly among the flowers, and showing
a level ignorance on all. Mr. Harleigh listened
with Christian resignation, and even allowed himself
to be her escort home  and to seem especially
attentive to her at afternoon tea : for although it
may take two to make a quarrel, assuredly one, if
she be but brazen enough, may mak a flirtation,
Dopsy felt that time was short, and that strong

measures were necessary. Mr. Harleigh had been
very polite'  attentive even. Dopsy, accustomed to
the free and easy manners of her brothers friends,
mistook Mr. Harleigh's natural courtesy to the sex
for particular homage to the individual. But he
had "said nothing'' and she was no nearer the
assurance of becoming Mrs. Harleigh than she had
been on the evening of his arrival. Dopsy had
been fain to confess this to Mopsy in the confidence
of sisterly discourse.

*' It seems as if I might just as well have had a
try for him myself, instead of standing out to give
you a better chance" retorted Mopsy, somewhat
> scornfully.

"Go in and win, if you can" said Dopsy. " It
wont be the first time you've tried to cut me out''

Dopsy, embittered by the sense of failure, determined
on new tactics. Hitherto she had been
all sparkle  now she melted into a touching sadness.

"What a delicious old room this is" she murmured,
glancing round at the bookshelves and dark
panelling, the high wide chimney piece with its coat-of-arms,
in heraldic colours, flashing and gleaming

against a background of brown oak. " I cannot
help feeling wretched at the idea that next week I
shall be far away from this dear place  in dingy
dreary London. Oh, Mr. Harleigh  detaining
him while she selected one particular piece of sugar
from the basin he was handing her  " don't you
detest London ?

"Not absolutely. I have sometimes found it
endurable. 

'' Ah you have your clubs  just the one pleasantness
street in all the great overgrown city  and
that street lined with palaces whose doors are always
standing open for you. Libraries,, smoking rooms
billiard-tables perfect dinners and all that is freshest
and brightest in the way of society. I done
wonder men like London. But for women it has only
two attractions  Music; and the shop windows !"

' And the park  the theatres  the churches  the
delight of looking at other womens gowns and bonnets.
1 thought that could never pall?'

' It does though. There comes a time when one
feels weary of everything said Dopsy pensively
stirring her tea and so fixing Mr. Harleigh with

her conversation that he was obliged to linger 
yea, even to set down his own tea-cnp on an
adjacent table, and to seat himself by the charmers
side.

I thought you so delighted in the theatres
he said. " You were full of enthusiasm about the
drama the night I first dined here's''

Was I V demanded Dopsy, naively. ' And now
I feel as if I did not care a straw about all the
plays that were ever acted  all the actors who ever
lived. Strange, is it not, that one can change soin
one little fortnight."

' The change is an hallucination. You are fascinated
by the charms of a rural life, which you
have not known long enough for satiety. You will
be just as fond of plays and players when you get
back to London."

Never,'' exclaimed Dopsy. " It is not only my
taste that is changed. It is myself. I feel as if I
were a new creature."

What a blessing for yourself and society if the
change were radical," said Mr. Harleigh, within
himself; and then he answered, lightly.

 Perhaps you have been attending the little
chapel at Boscastle secretly imbibing the doctrines
of advanced Methodism,, and this is a spiritual
awakening'

*No/' sighed Dopsy, shaking her head, pensively,
as she gazed at her teacup. " It is an utter change.
I cannot make it out. I don't think I shall ever care
for gaiety  parties  theatres  dress  again. '

"Oh, this must be the influence of the Methodists.'
"I hate Methodists ! I never spoke to one in my life.
I should like to go into a convent. I should like to
belong to a Protestant sisterhood, and to nurse the
poor in their own houses. It would be nasty; I should
catch some dreadful complaint, and die, I daresay;
but it would be better than what I feel now''

And Dopsy, taking advantage of the twilight, and
the fact that she and Angus were at some distance
from the rest of the party, burst into tears. They
were very real tears  tears of vexation, disappointment,
despair; and they made Angus very
uncomfortable.

My dear Miss Vandeleur, I am so sorry to see
you distressed. Is there anything on your mind ?

Is there anything that I can do. Shall I fetch your
sisters

"Noj no' gasped Dopsy, in a choked voice.
'' Please don't go away. I like you to be near
me.'

She put out her hand  a chilly, tremulous hand
with no passion in it save the passionate pain of
despair and touched his, timidly, entreatingly, as
if she were calling upon him for pity and help.
She was, indeed, in her inmost heart, asking him to
rescue her from the great dismal swamp of poverty
and disrepute : to take her to himself, and give her a
place and status among well-bred people, and make
her life worth living.

This was dreadful. Angus Harleigh, in all the
variety of his experience of womankind, had never
before found himself face to face with this kind of
difficulty. He had not been blind to Miss Vance
strenuous endeavours to charm him. He
had parried those light arrows lightly : but he Twas
painfully embarrassed by this appeal to his compassion.
It was a new thing for him to sit beside a
weeping woman, whom he could neither love nor

admire, but from whom he could not withhold his
pity.

 I daresay her life is dismal enough he thought,
with such a brother as Poker Vandeleur  and a
father to matches

While he sat in silent embarrassment, and
while Dopsy showy dried her tears with a gaudy
little coloured handkerchief, taken from a smart
little breast-pocket in the tailor-gown, Mr.
Tregonell sauntered across the room to the window
where they sat  a Tudor window, with a deep embrasure.


What are you two talking about in the
dark ?" he asked, as Dopsy confusedly shuffled the
handkerchief back into the breast-pocket. " Something
very sentimental, I should think, from the
look of you. Poetry, I supposes

Dopsy said not a word. She believed that
Leonard meant well by her  that, if his influence
could bring Mr. Hamleighs nose to the grindstone,
to the grindstone that nose would be brought. So
she looked up at her brother's friend with a watery
smile, and remained mute.

' We were talking about London and the
theatres answered Angus. " Not a very sentimental
topic ;" and then he got up and walked away
with his teacup to the table near which Christabel
was sittings in the flickering fire-lights and seated
himself by her side and began to talk to her about
a box of books that had arrived from London that
day  books that were familiar to him and new to
her. Leonard looked after him with a scowl, safe
in the shadow; while Dopsy, feeling that she had
made a fool of herself, lapsed again into tears.

I am afraid he is behaving very badly to you/
said Leonard.

' Oh, no, no. But he has such strange ways. He
blows hot and colds

' In plain words, he's a heartless flirts answered
Leonard, impatiently. '' He has been fooled by
a pack of women  pretends to be dying of
consumption  gives himself no end of airs. He has
flirted outrageously with you. Has he proposed?"

No not exactly,' faltered Dopsy.

Some one ought to bring him to the scratch.
Your brother must tackle him."

Don't you think if  if  Jack were to say anything
 were just to hint that I was being made
very unhappy  that such marked attentions before
all the world put me in a false position  don't
you think it might do harm V

' Quite the contrary. It would do good. No man
ought to trifle with a girl's feelings in that way.
No man shall be allowed to do it in my house.
If Jack won't speak to him, I will."

Oh, Mr. Vandeleur, what a noble heart you have
what a true friend you have always been to us'*

You are my friend's sister  my wife's guest.
I won't see you trifled with."

 And you really think his attentions have been
marked ?"

' Very much marked. He shall not be permitted
to amuse himself at your expense. There
he sits, talking sentiment to my wife  just as he
has talked sentiment to you. Why doesn't he keep
on the safe side, and confine his attentions to
married women?"

'* You are not jealous of him?" asked Dopsy, with
some alarm.

 Jealous ! I ! It would take a very extraordinary
kind of wife and a very extraordinary kind of
admirer of that wife to make me jealous"

Dopsy felt her hopes in sometime revived by
Mr. TregonelFs manner of looking at things. Upto
this point she had mistrusted exceedingly that the
flirting was all on her side : but now Leonard most
distinctly averred that Angus Harleigh had flirted,
and in a manner obvious to every one. And if Mr.
Harleigh really admired her  if he were really
blowing hot and cold  inclining one day to make
her his wife, and on another day disposed to let her
languish and fade in South Belgravia  might not a
word or two from a judicious friend turn the scale,
and make her happy for life.

She went up to her room to dress in a flutter of
hope and fear; so agitated, that she could scarcely
manage the more delicate details of her toilet  the
drapery of her skirt, the adjustment of the sunflower
on her shoulder

How flushed and shaky you are"' exclaimed
Mopsy,pausing in the pencilling of an eyebrow to look
at her sister. " Is the deed done ? Has he popped T*

VOL. II. s

"No, he lias not popped. But I think he

I-wish I were of your opinion. I should like
a rich sister. It would be the next best thing to
being well off oneself.''

You only think of his 'money' said Dopsy,
who had really fallen in love  for only about the
fifteenth time, so there was still freshness in the
feeling  " I should care for him just as much if
he were a pauper.''

No, you would not' said Mopsy. " I daresay
you think you would, but you wouldn't. There
is a glamour about money which nobody in our
circumstances can resist. A man who dresses
perfectly  who has never been hard up  who has
always lived among elegant people  there is a style
about him that goes straight to one's heart. Don't
you remember how in " Peter Wilkins " there are
different orders of beings  a superior class  born so,
bred so  always apart and above the others. JMr.
Harleigh belongs to that higher order. If he
were poor and shabby he would be a different
person. You wouldn't care twopence for him''

The Rector of Trevalga and his wife dined at
Mount Royal that evening, so Dopsy fell to the
lot of Mr. Harleigh , and had plenty of opportunity
of carrying on the siege during dinner, while INIrs.
Tregonell and the Rector , who was an enthusiastic
antiquarian, talked of the latest discoveries in
Druidic remains.

After dinner came the usual adjournment to
billiards. The Rector and his wife stayed in the
drawing-room with Christabel and Jessie. Mr. harleigh
would have remained with them, but Leonard
specially invited him to the billiard-room.

'you must have had enough Mendelssohn and
Beethoven to last you for the next six months'
he said. '* Youhad better come and have a smoke
with us."

I could never have too much good music,"
answered Angus.

Well, I don't suppose you'd get much to night.
The Rector and my wife will talk about pots and
pans all the evening, now they've once started.
You may as well be sociable, for once-in-a-way,
and come with us."

s2

Such an invitation , given in heartiest tones and
with seeming frankness could hardly be refused.
So Angus went across the hall with the rest of the
billiard players to the fine old room, once a
chapel, in which there was space enough for
settees, and easy chairs, tea-tables, books, flowers,
and dogs, without the slightest inconvenience to the
players.

You'll play, Harleigh V said Leonard.

No, thanks ; Fd rather sit and smoke and
watch you'

Really ! Then Monty and I will play Jack and
one of the girls. Billiards is the only game at
which one can afford to play against relations 
they can't cheat. Mopsy, will you play? Dopsy
can mark''

What a thorough good fellow he is,''"' thought
Dopsy, charmed with an arrangement which left
her comparatively free for flirtation with Mr.
Harleigh, who had taken possession of ChristabePs
favourite seat  a low capacious basket-chair 
by the wide wood fire, and had Christabers table
near him, loaded with her books, and work-basket 

those books which were all his favourites as well
as hers, and which made an indissoluble link
between them. What is mere blood relationship
compared with the subtler tie of mutual likings
and disliking ?

The men all lighted their cigarettes, and the
game progressed with tolerably equal fortunes, Jack
Vandeleur playing well enough to make amends for
any lack of skill on the part of Mopsy, whose
want of the scientific purpose and certainty which
come from long experience, was as striking as her
dashing and self-assured method of handling her
cue, and her free use of all slang terms peculiar to
the game. Dopsy oscillated bet wee a the marking-board
and the fireplace  sometimes kneeling on
the Persian rug to play with Eandie and the other
dogs, sometimes standing in a pensive attitude by
the chimney piece, talking to Angus. All traces
of tears were gone. Her cheeks were flushed, her
eyes brightened by an artful touch of Indian ink
under the lashes, her eyebrows accentuated by the
same artistic treatment, her large fan held with the
true Grosvenor Gallery air.

 Do you believe that peacocks feathers are
unlucky ? she asked, looking pensively at the
fringe of green and azure plumage on her fan.

I am not altogether free from superstition, but
my idea of the fates has never taken that [particular
form. Why should the peacock be a bird
of evil omen ? I can believe anything bad of the
screech-owl or the raven  but the harmless ornamental
peacock  surely he is innocent of our
woes''

' I have known the most direful calamities
follow the introduction of peacocks feathers into
a drawing-room  yet they are so tempting, one
can hardly live without themes

Really ! Do you know that I have found
existence endurable without so much as a tuft of
down from that unmelodious bird T

Have you never longed for its plumage to give
life and colour to your rooms?  such exquisite
colour  such delicious harmony  I wonder that
you, who have such artistic taste, can resist the
fascinations

I hope you have not found that pretty fan the

cause of many woes T' said Mr. Hamleigli,
smilingly, as the damsel posed herself in the early
Italian manner,, and slowly waved the bright-hued
plumage.

*' I cannot say that I have been altogether
happy since I possessed it,' answered Dopsy, with
a shy downward glance, and a smothered sigh ;
'' and yet I don't know  I have been only too
happy sometimes, perhaps, and at other times
deeply wretched

Is not that kind of variableness common to
our poor human nature  independent of peacocks'
feathers ?"

' Not to me. I used to be the most thoughtless
happy-go-lucky creature .''

'' Until when ?'

Till I came to Cornwallis with a faint sigh,
and a sudden upward glance of a pair of blue eyes
which would have been pretty, had they been only
innocent of all scheming.

 Then Im afraid this mixture o sea and mountain
air does not agree with you. Too exciting for
your nerves perhaps."

' I don't think it is that's with a still fainter
sigh.

' Then the peacocks feathers must he to hame.
Why don't you throw your fan into the fire V

Not for worlds," said Dopsy,

*' Why not ?"

' First, because it cost a guineas naively, '' and
then because it is associated with quite the happiest
period of my life's

' You said just now you had been unhappy since
you owned it."

' Only by fits and starts. Too utterly happy at
other times."

If I say another word she will dissolve into
tears again," thought Angus.  I shall have to
leave Mount Royal : a man in weak health is no
match for a young woman of this type. She will
get me into a corner and declare I have proposed
to her."

He got up and went over to the table, where
Mr. Montagu was just finishing the game, with a
break which had left Dopsy free for flirtation during
the last ten minutes.

Mr. Hamleigli played in the next game but this
hardly bettered his condition, for Dopsy now took
her sisters place with the cue, and required to be
instructed as to every stroke, and even to have her
fingers placed in position, now and then by Angus,
when the ball was under the cushion, and the
stroke in any way difficult. This lengthened the
game, and bored Angus exceedingly, besides making
him ridiculous in the eyes of the other three men.

I hate playing with lovers, muttered Leonard,
under his breath, when Dopsy was especially
worrying about the exact point at which she was
to hit the ball for a particular cannon.

Decidedly I must get away to-morrow, reflected
Angus,

The game went on merrily enough, and was only
just over when the stable clock struck eleven, at
which hour the servants brought in a tray with a
tankard of mulled claret for vice, and a siphon for
virtue. The Miss Vandeleurs, after pretending to
say good-night, were persuaded to sip a little of the
hot spiced Tinc, and were half inclined to accept
the cigarettes persuasively offered by Mr. Montagu ;

till warned by a wink from Jack, they drew up
suddenly, declared they had been quite too awfully
dissipated, that they should be too late to wish
Mrs. Tregonell good-night, and skipped away.

'' Awfully jolly girls, those sisters of yours/"
said Montagu, as he closed the door which he had
opened for the damsels exit, and strolled back to
the hearth, where Angus was sitting dreamily
caressing Katie her dog ! How many a happy
dog has received caresses charged with the love
of his mistress, such mournful kisses as Dido
lavished on the young Ascanius in the dead watches
of the weary night.

Jack Vandeleur and his host had begun another
game, delighted at having the table to themselves.

"Yes, they're nice girls answered Mr. Van-leur,
without looking off the table; "just the
right kind of girls for a country-house : no starch,
no prudishness, but as innocent as babies, and as
true-hearted  well, they are all heart. I should be
sorry to see anybody trifle with either of them. It
would be a very serious thing for her  and it
should be my business to make it serious for him.-"

Great advantage for a girl to have a brother
who enjoys the reputation of being a dead shot,'
said Mr. Montagu, ' or it would be if duelling
were not an exploded institution  like trial for
witchcraft, and hanging for petty larceny

Duelling is never out of fashion , among gentlemen''
answered Jack, making a cannon and going
in off the red. 'That makes seventeen, Monty.
There are injuries which nothing but the pistol can
redress, and Im not sorry that my Need River
experience has made me a pretty good shot. But
Vm not half as good as Leonard. He could give
me fifty in a hundred any day.

When a man has to keep his party in butchers
meat by the use of his rifle, hcd need be a decent
marksman, answered mr. Tregonell, carelessly.
' I never knew the right use of a gun till I crossed
the Rockies. By-the-way, who is for woodcock
shooting tomorrow ? You'll come, I suppose,
Jack?'

"Not tomorrow, thanks. Monty and I arc
going over to Bodmin to see a man hanged.
We've got an order to view, as the house-agents

call it. Monty is supposed to be on the Times. I
go for the Western Daily Mercury'*

What a horrid ghoulish thing to do/ said
Leonard.

Its seeing life's answered Jack , shrugging his
shoulders.

I should call it the other thing. However,
as crime is very rare in Cornwall, you may as well
make the most of your opportunity. But its a
pity to neglect the birds. This is one of the best
seasons were had since Iso, when there was a
remarkable flight of birds in the second week in
October. But even that year wasn't as good as
55, when a farmer at St. Bunyan killed close
upon sixty birds in a week. You'll go tomorrow,
I hope, Mr. Harleigh? There's some very good
ground about St. Nectans Sieve, and its a
picturesque sort of place, that will just hit your
fancy .

I have been to the Sieve, often -yes, it is a
lovely spot' answered Angus, remembering his
first visit to Mount Royal, and the golden afternoons
which he had spent with Christabel among the

rocks and the ferns their low voices half drowned by
the noise of the waterfall. " But I shan't be able
to shoot tomorrow. I have just been making up
my mind to tear myself away from Mount Royal
and I was going to ask you to let one of your
grooms drive me over to Launceston in time for
the mid-day train. I can get up from Plymouth
by the Limited Mail''

'why are you in such a hurry'' asked
Leonard. "I thought you were rather enjoying
yourself with us."

' So much so that as far as my own inclination
goes there is no reason why I should not stay here
for the rest of my life  only you would get tired
of me  and I have promised my doctor to go
southward before the frosty weather begins."

A day or two can't make much difference''

Not much  only when there is a disagreeable
effort to be made the sooner one gets it over the
better."

I am sorry you are off so suddenly' said
Leonard, going on with the game, and looking
rather oddly across the table at Captain Yandeleur.

' I am more than sorry said that gentleman,
' I am surprised. But perhaps I am not altogether
in the secret of your movements."

' There is no secrets said Angus.

'' Isn't there ? Then Fm considerably mistaken.
It has looked very much lately as if there were a
particular understanding between you and my
elder sister; and I think, as her brother, I have
some right to be let into the secret before you
leave Mount Eoyal.''

I am sorry that either my manner, or !Miss
Vandeleurs, should have so far misled you,"
answered Angus, with freezing gravity. He pitied
the sister, but felt only cold contempt for the
brother. " The young lady and I have never interchanged
a word which might not have been heard
by everybody at Mount Royal."

 And you have had no serious intentions  you
have never pretended to any serious feeling about
her."

Never. Charming as the young lady may be, I
have been, and am, adamant against all such fascinations.
A man who has been told that he may not

live a year is hardly in a position to make an offer
of marriage. Good-night, Tregonell. I shall rely
on your letting one of your men drive me to the
station'

He nodded good-night to the other two men, and
left the room. Randie, who loved him for the sake
of old times, followed at his heels.

There goes a cur who deserves a dose of cold
lead' said Jack, looking vindictively towards the
door.

* What, Randie, my wife's favourite ?"

'' No, the two-legged cur. Come, you two men
know how outrageously that puppy has flirted with
my sister."

' I know there has been  some kind of flirtation,"
answered Mr. Montagu, luxuriously buried in a
large armchair, with his legs hanging over the
arm, " and I suppose it's the man who's to blame.
Of course it always is the man."

'*Did you ever hear such a sneaking evasion?"
demanded Jack. ' Not a year to live forsooth.
Why if he can't make her his wife he is bound
as a gentleman to make her his widow."

'she has plenty of coiiij hasn't he?" asked
Montague. ' Your sister has never gone for me
and Fm dreadfully soft under such treatment.
When I think of the number of girls I've proposed
tOj and how gracefully Tve always backed
out of it afterwards, I really wonder at my own
audacity. I never refuse to marry the lady  pas si
bete : ' I adore you, and well be married tomorrow
if you like I say. ' But you'll have to live with
your papa and mamma for the first ten years 
Perhaps by that time I might be able to take second-floor
lodgings in Bloomsbury, and we could begin
housekeeping.-'

'you're a privileged paupers said Captain
Vandeleur ; " Mr. Harleigh is quite another kind
of individual  and I say that he has behaved in a
dastardly manner to my elder sister. Everybody
in this house thought that he was in love with her.

You have told us so several times answered
Montagu, coolly, ' and we're bound to believe you,
don't you know.'

'I should have thought you'd have had too
much spunk to see an old friend's sister jilted in

such a barefaced way, Tregonell/ said Jack
Vandeleur, who had drunk just enough to make
him quarrelsome.

You don't mean to say that Im accountable
for his actions,, do you ?" retorted Leonard. " That's
rather a large order."

I mean to say that you asked him here  and
you puffed him off as a great catch  and half
turned poor little Dops head by your talk about
him. If you knew what an arrant flirt he was you
oughtn't to have brought him inside your doors."

Perhaps I didn't know anything about it,"
answered Leonard, with his most exasperating air.

'' Then I can only say that if half Ive heard is
true you ought to have known all about it."

'' As how ?"

Because its common club-talk that he flirted
with your wife  was engaged to her  and was
thrown off by her on account of his extremely
disreputable antecedents. Your mother has the sole
credit of the throwing off, by-the-by."

You had better leave my mother's name and
ray wife's name out of your conversation. That's

VOL. II. T

twenty-eight to rae , Monty. Poker has spoiled a
capital break by his d d personality'

I beg your pardon  Mrs. Tregonell is simply
perfect, and there is no woman I more deeply
honour. But still you must allow me to wonder
that you ever let that man cross your threshold'

You are welcome to go on wondering. It's a
wholesome exercise for a sluggish brain''

Game' exclaimed Mr. Montagu ; and Leonard
put his cue in the rack, and walked away, without
another word to either of his guests.

He's a dreadful bear' said little Monty, emptying
the tankard ; " but you oughtn't to have talked
about the wife, Poker  that was bad form."

Does he ever study good form when he talks of
my people ? He had no business to bring that fine
gentleman here to flirt with my sister."

"But really now, don't you think your sister did
her share of the flirting, and that she's rather an old
hand at that kind of thing? I adore Dop and Mop,
as I'm sure you know, and I only wish I were rich
enough to back my opinion by marrying one of
them  but I don't think our dear little Dopsy is

Just the kind of man to interest a warmhearted
girl. No more claret ! Well, I suppose
we may as well go to roost. '

T 2

CHAPTER XII.

AND TIME IS SETTING VVI ME , O."

Angus Harleigh left the billiard players with
the intention of going straight to his own room ;
but in the hall he encountered the Rector of
Trevalga, who was just going away, very apologetic
at having stayed so late, beguiled by the fascination
of antiquarian talk. Christabel and Jessie had
come out to the hall, to bid their old friends goodnight,
and thus it happened that Mr. Harleigh
went back to the drawing-room, and sat there
talking till nearly midnight. They sat in front of
the dying fire, talking as they had talked in days
gone by  and their conversation grew sad and
solemn as the hour wore on. Angus announced
his intended departure, and Christabel had no word
to say against his decision.

We shall be very sorry to lose you,' she said,
sheltering her personality behind the plural pronoun,

" but I think it is wise of you to waste no
more times

I have not wasted an hour. It has been
unspeakable happiness for me to be here  and I am
more grateful than I can say to your husband for
having brought me here  for having treated me
with such frank cordiality. The time has come when
I may speak very freely  yes  a man whose race
is so nearly run need have no reserves of thought
or feeling. I think, Mrs. Tregonell, that you and
Miss Bridgeman, who knows me almost as well as
you do 

Better, perhaps' murmured Jessie, in a scarcely
audible voice.

Must both know that my life for the last four
years has been one long regret  that all my days
and hours have been steeped in the bitterness of
remorse. I am not going now to dispute the
justice of the sentence which spoiled my life and
broke my heart. I submitted without question,
because I knew that the decree was wise. I had
no right to offer you the ruin of a life "

Do not speak of that'* cried Christabel, with a

stifled sob , " for pities sake don't speak of the past :
I cannot bear it."

Then I will not say another word, except to tell
you that your goodness to me in these latter days 
your friendship, so frankly, so freely given  has
steeped my soul in peace  has filled my mind with
sweet memories which will sooth my hours of decline,
when I am far from this dear house where I was
once so happy. I wish I could leave some pleasant
memory here when I am gone  I wish your boy had
been old enough to remember me in the days to
come, as one who loved him better than any one on
earth could love him, after his father and mother."

Christabel answered no word. She sat with her
hand before her eyes  tears streaming slowly down
her cheeks  tears that were happily invisible in the
faint light of the shaded lamps and the fading fire.

And then they went on to talk of life in the
abstract  its difficulties  its problems  its consolations
 and of death  and the dim world beyond 
the unknown land of universal recompense, where
the deep joys striven after here, and never attained.

are to be ours in a purer and more spiritual form
where love shall no longer walk hand in hand
with pain and sorrow, dogged by the dark spectre
Death.

Illness and solitude had done much to exalt and
spiritualize Angus Harleigh's mind. The religion
of dogma, the strict hard-and-fast creed which was
the breath of life to Leonardoss mother, had never
been grappled with or accepted by him  but it was
in his nature to be religious. Never at his worst
had he sheltered his errors under the brazen front
of paganism  never had he denied the beauty of a
pure and perfect life, a simple childlike faith, heroic
self-abrogating love of God and man. He had admired
and honoured such virtue in others, and had been
sorry that Nature had cast him in a lower mould.
Then had come the sentence which told him that
his days here were to be of the fewest, and, without
conscious effort, his thoughts had taken a more
serious cast. The great problem had come nearer
home to him  and he had found its only solution
to be hope  hope more or less vague and dim 

more or less secure and steadfast  according to the
temperament of the thinker. All metaphysical
argument for or against  all theological teaching
could push the thing no farther. It seemed to him
that it "was the universal instinct of mankind to
desire and hope for an imperishable life, purer,
better, fairer than the life we know here  and that
innate in every human breast there dwells capacity
for immortality, and disbelief in extinction  and
to this universal instinct he surrendered himself
unreservedly, content to demand no stronger argument
than that grand chapter of Corinthians
which has consoled so many generations of
mourners.

So now, speaking with these two women of the
life to come  the fair, sweet, all-satisfying life after
death  he breathed no word which the most
orthodox churchman might not have approved.
He spoke in the fulness of a faith which, based on
instinct, and not on dogma, had ripened with the
decline of all delight and interest in this lower life.
He spoke as a man for whom earths last moorings

had been loosened, whose only hopes pointed
skyward.

It was while he was talking thus, with an
almost passionate earnestness, and yet wholly free
from all earthly passion , that Mr. Tregonell entered
the room and stood by the door, contemplating
the group by the hearth. The spectacle was not
pleasant to a man of intensely jealous temperament,
a man who had been testing and proving the wife
whom he could not completely trust, whom he
loved grudgingly, with a savage half-angry love.

ChristabeFs face, dimly lighted by the lamp on the
low table near her, was turned towards the speaker,
the lips parted, the large blue eyes bright with
emotion. Her hands were clasped upon the elbow
of the chair, and her attitude was of one who
listens to words of deepest, dearest meaning ; while
Angus Harleigh sat a little way off with his eyes
upon her face, his whole air and expression charged
with feeling. To Leonard's mind all such earnestness,
all sentiment of any kind, came under one
category : it all meant love-making, more or less

audacious, more or less hypocritical, dressed in
modern phraseology, sophisticated, disguised, super-refined,
fantastical, called one day sestheticism and
peacock's feathers, another day positivism, agnosticism,
Swinburne-cum-Burne-Jones-ism, but always
the same thing au fond, and meaning war to
domestic peace. There sat Jessie Bridgeman, the
dragon of prudery placed within call, but was any
woman safer for the presence of a duenna ? was it
riot in the nature of such people to look on
simperingly while the poison cup was being quaffed,
and to declare afterwards that they had supposed
the mixture perfectly harmless? No doubt,
Tristan and Iseult had somebody standing by to
play propriety when they drank from the fatal
goblet, and bound themselves for life in the meshes
of an unhappy love. No, the mere fact of Miss
Bridgeman's presence was no pledge of safety.

There was no guilt in Mrs. Tregonell's countenance,
assuredly, when she looked up and saw her
husband standing near the door, watchful, silent,
with a pre-occupied air that was strange to him.

What is the matter, Leonard ?" she asked, for
his manner implied that something was amiss.

"Nothing  I  I was wondering to find you up
so late  that's all'

"The Rector and his wife stayed till eleven,
and we have been sitting here talking. Mr. harleigh
means to leave us tomorrow."

"eyes, I knows answered Leonard, curtly.
Oh, by the way' turning to Angus, " there is
something I want to say to you before you go to
bed; something about your journey to-morrow'

I am quite at your service''

Instead of approaching the group by the fireplace,
Leonard turned and left the room, leaving
Mr. Harleigh under the necessity of following him.

Good-night," he said, shaking hands with
Christabel. " I shall not say good-bye till tomorrow.
I suppose I shall not have to leave Mount Royal
till eleven o'clock."

I think not."

Good-night, Miss Bridgeman. I shall never
forget how kind you have been to me."

She looked at him earnestly, but made no reply,
and in the next instant he was gone.

"What can have happened ? asked Christabel
anxiously. " I am sure there is something wrong.
Leonardoss manner was so strange."

Perhaps he and his dear friends have been
quarrelling Jessie answered, carelessly. " I believe
Captain Vandeleur breaks out into vindictive
language, sometimes, after he has taken a little too
much wine : Mop told me as much in her amiable
candour. And I know the Captains glass was
filled very often at dinner, for I had the honour of
sitting next him."

I hope there is nothing really wrong," said
Christabel ; but she could not get rid of the sense of
uneasiness to which Leonardoss strange manner had
given rise.

She went to her boy's nursery, as she did every
night, before going to bed, and said her prayers
beside his pillow. She had begun this one night
when the child was ill, and had never missed a
night since. That quiet recess in which the little

ones cot stood was her oratory. Here, in the
silence, broken only by the ticking of the clock or
the fall of a cinder on the hearth, while the nurse
slept near at hand the mother prayed ; and her
prayers seemed to her sweeter and more efficacious
here than in any other place. So soon as those
childish lips could speak it would be her delight to
teach her son to pray ; and, in the meantime, her
supplications went up to Heaven for him, from a
heart that overflowed with motherly love. There
had been one dismal interval of her life when she
had loved no one  having really no one to love 
secretly loathing her husband  not daring even to
remember that other, once so fondly loved  and then,
when her desolate heart seemed walled round with an
icy barrier that divided it from all human feeling,
God had given her this child, and lo! the ice had
melted, and her re-awakened soul had kindled and
glowed with warmth and gladness. It was not in
Christabel's nature to love many things, or many
people : rather was it natural to her to love one person
intensely, as she had loved her adopted mother

in her girlhood, as she had loved Angus Harleigh
in the bloom of her womanhood, as she loved her
boy now.

She was leaving the child's room, after prayers
and meditations that had been somewhat longer
than usual, when she heard voices, and saw Mr.
Tregonell and Mr. Harleigh by the door of the
room occupied by the latter, which was at the further
end of the gallery.

' You understand my plan ?" said Leonard.

'' Perfectly''

It prevents all trouble, don't you see."

Yes, I believe it may," answered Angus, and
without any word of good-night he opened his door
and went into his room, while Leonard turned on
his heel, and strolled to his own quarters.

"Was there anything amiss between you and
Mr. Harleigh, that you parted so coldly just now ?"
asked Christabel, presently, when her husband came
from his dressing-room into the bed-room where
she sat musing by the fire.

What, aren't you gone to bed yet !" he

exclaimed. " You seem to be possessed by a
wakeful demon to-nights

' I have been in the boy's room. fas there
anything amiss, Leonard ?

*' You are monstrously anxious about it. No.
What should there be amiss? You didn't expect to
see us hugging each other like a couple of Frenchmen,
did you ?"

END OF vor. TI.

PRINTED RY UALI.ANTYNF, HANSON AND CO.
LONDON AND Edinburgh

OF THE

U University

Of 


fA4Mmo

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/mountroyalnovel03brad

BY THE AUTHOR OF

"LADY AUDLEY'S Secret "

ETC. ETC. ETC.

VOL. III.

LONDON
JOHN AND ROBERT MAXWELL

MILTON HOUSE, SHOE LANE, FLEET STREET


[All rights reserved]

BALLANTYNE, HANSON AND CO., EDINBURGH
Hands STREET, LONDON

CONTENTS TO VOL. III.

CHAP. PAGE

I. " WITH SUCH REMORSELESS SPEED STILL COME NEW

woes" 1

II. '' YOURS ON MONDAY, GOd's TO-DAY" . . 26

III. DUEL OR MURDER ? . 43

IV. "DUST TO dust" 57

V. " PAIN FOR THY GIRDLE, AND SORROW UPON THY

head" 81

VI. '' I WILL HAVE NO MERCY ON HIM" , .91

vii. " qai donc, la voyages, au coup du

peering!" 129

VIII. "time turns the old DAYS TO derision" . 143

IX. "thou shouldst come like a fury crowned

with snakes" 172

X. " HIS LADY smiles; DELIGHT IS IN HER FACE" . 189
XI. " LOVE BORE SUCH BITTER AND SUCH DEADLY

FRUIT'



XII. " SHE STOOD UP IN BITTER CASE, WITH A PALE

YET STEADY FACe" 257

XIII. WE HAVE DONE WITH TEARS AND TREASONS . 301

CHAPTER I.
"with such remorseless speed still come

NEW woes'

The next morning was damp, and grey, and mild,
no autumn wind stirring the long sweeping branches
of the cedars on the lawn, the dead leaves falling
silently, the world all sad and solemn, clad in universal
greyness. Christabel was up early, with her
boy, in the nursery  watching him as he splashed
about his bath, and emerged rosy and joyous, like an
infant river-god sporting among the rushes ;
early at family prayers in the dining room, a
ceremony at which Mr. Tregonell rarely assisted,
and to which Dopsy and Mopsy came flushed and
breathless with hurry, anxious to pay all due
respect to a hostess whom they hoped to visit again,
but inwardly revolting against the unreasonableness
of eight-o'clock prayers*

VOL. III. B

Angus who was generally about the gardens
before eight, did not appear at all this morning.
The other men were habitually late  breakfasting
together in a free-and-easy manner when the ladies
had left the dining-room  so Christabel, Miss
Bridgeman, and the Miss Vandeleurs sat down to
breakfast alone, Dopsy giving little furtive glances
at the door every now and then, expectant of
Mr. Harleigh's entrance.

That expectancy became too painful for the

damsels patience, by-and-by, as the meal advanced.

I wonder what has become of Mr. Harleigh

she said. " This is the first time he has been late

at breakfast."

Perhaps he is seeing to the packing of his portmanteaus*
said Miss Bridgeman. " Some valets
are bad packers, and want superintendence''

Packing V cried Dopsy, aghast. " Packing !
What for V

He is going to London this afternoon. Didn't
you know ?"

Dopsy grew pale as ashes. The shock was
evidently terrible, and even Jessie pitied her.

Poor silly Dop/ she thought. " Could she actually
suppose that she stood the faintest chance of
bringing down her bird ?"

Going away ? For good ?'' murmured Miss
Vandeleur faintly  all the flavour gone out of the
dried salmon, the Cornish butter the sweet home-baked
bread.

' I hope so. He is going to the South of France
for the winter. Of course, you know that he is
consumptive, and has not many years to lives''
answered Miss Bridgeman.

Poor fellow V sighed Dopsy, with tears glittering
upon her lowered eyelids.

She had begun the chase moved chiefly by sordid
instincts; her tenderest emotions had been hacked
and vulgarized by long experience in flirtation
but at this moment she believed that never in her
life had she loved before, and that never in her life
could she love again.

' And if he dies unmarried what will become of
his property ?'' inquired Mopsy, whose feelings were
not engaged.

I haven't the faintest idea' answered Miss

B 2

Bridgeman.  He has no near relations. I hope he
swill leave his money to some charitable institution'

What time does he go ?" faltered Dopsy.
swallowing her tears.

Mr. Harleigh left an hour ago, Madam' said
the butler, who had been carving at the side-board
during this conversation. " He has gone shooting.
The dog-cart is to pick him up at the gate leading
to St. Nectan's Sieve at eleven o'clock''

' Gone shooting on his last morning at Mount
Royal !" exclaimed Jessie. " That's a new development
of Mr. Harleigh's character. I never knew
he had a passion for sport."

I believe there is a note for you, ma'am' said
the butler to his mistress.

He went out into the hall, and returned in a
minute or two carrying a letter upon his official
salver, and handing it with official solemnity to Mrs.
Tregonell.

The letter was brief and commonplace enough 
Dear Mrs. Tregonell, 

After all I am deprived of the opportunity of
wishing you good-by this morning, by the temptation

of two or three hours woodcock shooting
about St. Nectans Sieve. I shall drive straight
from there to Launceston in Mr. TregonelFs dogcart,
for the use of which I beg to thank him in
advance. I have already thanked you and Miss
Bridgeman for your goodness to me during my
late visit to Mount Royal, and can only say that
my gratitude lies much deeper, and means a great
deal more, than such expressions of thankfulness
are generally intended to convey.
'' Ever sincerely yours,

Angus Harleigh."

Then this was what Leonard and he were settling
last nights thought Christabel. " Your master went
out with Mr. Harleigh, I suppose," she said to
the servant.

No, ma'am, my master is in his study. I took
him his breakfast an hour ago. He is writing
letters, I believes'

' And the other two gentlemen ?''

Started for Bodmin in the wagonette at six
o'clock this morning."

'they are going to see that unhappy man

hanged said Miss Bridgeman. " Congenial occupation.
Mr. Montagu told me all about it at
dinner yesterday, and asked me if I wasn't sorry
that my sex prevented my joining the party. ' It
would be a new sensation he said, ' and to a
woman of your intelligence that must be an
immense attractions I told him I had no hankering
after new sensations of that kind''

And he is really gone  without saying good-by
to any of us'' said Dopsy, still harping on the
departed guest.

Yes, he is really gone," echoed Jessie, with a sigh.

Christabel had been silent and absent-minded
throughout the meal. Her mind was troubled  she
scarcely knew why ; disturbed by the memory of her
husband's manner as he parted with Angus in the
corridor; disturbed by the strangeness of this lonely
expedition after woodcock, in a man who had
always shown himself indifferent to sport. As usual
with her when she was out of spirits, she went
straight to the nursery for comfort, and tried to
forget everything in life except that Heaven had
given her a son whom she adored.

Her boy upon this particular morning was a
little more fascinating and a shade more exacting
than usual; the rain , soft and gentle as it was 
rather an all-pervading moisture than a positive
rainfall  forbade any open-air exercise for this
tenderly reared young person  so he had to be
amused indoors. He was just of an age to be
played with, and to understand certain games
which called upon the exercise of a dawning imagination
; so it was his mother's delight to ramble
with him in an imaginary wood, and to fly
from imaginary wolves, lurking in dark caverns,
represented by the obscure regions underneath a
table-cover  or to repose with him on imaginary
mountain-tops on the sofa  or be engulfed with
him in sofa pillows, which stood for whelming
waves. Then there were pictures to be looked at,
and little Leo had to be lovingly instructed in the
art of turning over a leaf without tearing it from
end to end  and the necessity for restraining an
inclination to thrust all his fingers into his mouth
between whiles, and sprawl them admiringly on the
page afterwards.

Time so beguiled, even on the dullest morning,
and with a lurking, indefinite sense of trouble in her
mind all the while, went rapidly with Christabel. She
looked up with surprise when the stable clock
struck eleven.

So late ? Do you know if the dog-cart has
started yet, Carson ?"

"Yes, madam, I heard it drive out of the yard
half an hour ago, answered the nurse, looking up
from her needle work.

' Well, I must go. Good-by, Baby. I think, if
you are very good, you might have your dinner
with mamma. Din-din  with  mum  mum  mum"
a kiss between every nonsense syllable. " You
can bring him down, nurse. I shall have only the
ladies with me at luncheon." There were still
further leave-takings, and then Christabel went
downstairs. On her way past her husbands study
she saw the door standing ajar.

Are you there, Leonard, and alone?"

'' Yes."

She went in, He was sitting at his desk  his
cheque-book opeii, tradesmen's accounts spread out

before him  all the signs and tokens of business-like
occupation. It was not often that Mr. Tregonell
spent a morning in his study. When he did, it
meant a general settlement of accounts and usually-resulted
in a surly frame of mind, which lasted,
more or less, for the rest of the day.

Did you know that Mr. Harleigh had gone
woodcock shooting T'

' Naturally, since it was I who suggested that
he should have a shy at the birds before he left''
answered Leonard, without looking up.

He was filling in a cheque, with his head bent
over the table.

How strange for him to go alone, in his weak
health, and with a fatiguing journey before him''

What's the fatigue of lolling in a railway carriage?
Confound it, you've made me spoil the
cheque !" muttered Leonard, tearing the oblong slip
of coloured paper across and across, impatiently.

How your hand shakes ! Have you been
writing all the morning ?"

Yes  all the morning," absently, turning over
the leaves of bis cheque-book.

"But you have been out  your boots are allover
mud'

Yes, I meant to have an hour or so at the birds.
I got as far as Willapark, and then remembered
that Clayton wanted the money for the tradesmen
to-day. One must stick to one's pay-day, don't you
know, when one has made a rule."

0 course. Oh, there are the new Quarterlies !"
said Christabel, seeing a package on the table. " Do
you mind my opening them here ?"

No ; as long as you hold your tongue, and
don't disturb me when I'm at figures."

This was not a very gracious permission to remain,
but Christabel seated herself quietly by the fire,
and began to explore the two treasuries of wisdom
which the day's post had brought. Leonard's study
looked into the stable-yard, a spacious quadrangle,
with long ranges of doors and windows, saddle
rooms, harness rooms, loose boxes, coachmen's, and
groom's quarters  a little colony complete in itself.
From his open window the Squire could give his
orders, interrogate his coachman as to his consumption
of forage, have an ailing horse paraded before

him, bully an underling, and bestow praise or blame
all round, as it suited his humour. Here, too, were
the kennels of the dogs, whose company Mr. Tregonell
liked a little better than that of his fellow-men.

Leonard sat with his head bent over the table,
writing, Christ abel in her chair by the fire turning the
leaves of her book in the rapture of a first skimming.
They sat thus for about an hour, and then both
looked up with a startled air, at the sound of wheels.

It was the dog cart that was being driven into
the yard, Mr. Hail eights servant sitting behind,
walled in by a portmanteau and a Gladstone bag.
Leonard opened the window, and looked out.

"What's up'' he asked ' Has your master
changed his mind ?"

The valet alighted, and came across the yard to
the window.

"We haven't seen Mr. Harleigh, Sir. There
must have been some mistake, I think. We waited
at the gate for nearly an hour, and then Baker said
we'd better come back, as we must have missed
;Mr. Harleigh, somehow, and he might be here
waiting for us to take him to Launceston."

Bakers a fool. How could you miss him if he
went to the Sieve ? There's only one way out of
that place  or only one way that Mr. Raleigh
could find. Did you inquire if he went to the
Sieve T'

Yes, Sir. Baker went into the farmhouse, and
they told him that a gentleman had come with his
gun and a dog, and had asked for the key, and had
gone to the Sieve alone. They were not certain
as to whether heM come back or not, but he hadn't
taken the key back to the house. He might have
put it into his pocket, and forgotten all about it,
don't you see. Sir, after heM let himself out of the
gate. That's what Baker said; and he might have
come back here's

Perhaps he has come back'' answered Leonard,
carelessly. " You'd better inquires

' I don't think he can have returned,'' said
Christabel, standing near the window, very pale.

How do you know ?" asked Leonard, savagely.
' You've been sitting here for the last hour poring
over that book. "

'' I think I should have heard  I think I should

have known faltered Christabel with her heart
beating strangely.

There was a mystery in the return of the carriage
which seemed like the beginning of woe and horror
like the ripening of that strange vague sense of
trouble which had oppressed her for the last few hours.

"You would have heard  you would have
known echoed her husband, with brutal mockery 
"by instinct, by second sight, by animal magnetism,
suppose. You are just the sort of woman to
believe in that kind of rot."

The valet had gone across the yard on his way
round to the offices of the house. Christabel made
no reply to her husbands sneering speech, but went
straight to the hall, and rang for the butler.

Have you  has any one seen Mr. Harleigh
come back to the house V she asked.

No, ma'am''

Inquire, if you please, of every one. Make
quite sure that he has not returned, and then let
three or four men, with Nicholls at their head, go
down to St. Nectan's Sieve and look for him. I'm
afraid there has been an accident."

I hope not, ma'am," answered the butler, who
had known Christabel from her babyhood, who had
looked on, a pleased spectator, at Mr. Hamleighs
wooing, and whose heart was melted with tenderest
compassion to-day at the sight of her pallid face,
and eyes made large with terror. ' It's a dangerous
kind of place for a stranger to go clambering about
with a gun, but not for one that knows every stone
of it, as Mr. Harleigh do'

' Send, and at once, please. I do not think
Mr. Harleigh, having arranged for the dog-cart to
meet him, would forget his appointment''

There's no knowing, ma'am. Some gentlemen
are so wrapt up in their sport."

Christabel sat down in the hall, and waited while
Daniel, the butler, made his inquiries. No one had
seen Mr. Harleigh come in, and everybody was
ready to aver on oath if necessary that he had not
returned. So Nicholls, the chief coachman, a man
of gumption and of much renown in the household,
as a person whose natural sharpness had been improved
by the large responsibilities involved in a
well-filled stable, was brought to receive his orders

from Mrs. Tregonell. Daniel admired the calm
gravity with which she gave the man his instructions,
despite her colourless cheek and the look of
pain in every feature of her face.

' You will take two or three of the stablemen
with you, and go as fast as you can to the Sieve.
You had better go in the light cart, and it would
be as well to take a mattress, and some pillows.
If -if there should have been an accident those
might be useful. Mr. Harleigh left the house
early this morning with his gun to go to the Sieve,
and he was to hive met the dog-cart at eleven.
Baker waited at the gate till twelve  but perhaps
you have heard'

"Yes, madam. Baker told me. It's strange  but
Mr. Harleigh may have overlooked the time if
he had good sport. Do you know which of the
dogs he took with him T'

No. Why do you ask V

Because I rather thought it was Sambo. Sambo
was always a favourite of Mr. Hamleighs, though
he's getting rather too old for his work now. If
it was Sambo the dog must have run away and left

Linij for he was back about the yard before ten
o'clock. He'd been hurt somehow, for there was
blood upon one of his feet. Master had the red
setter with him this morning, when he went for his
stroll, but I believe it must have been Sambo that
Mr. Harleigh took. There was only one of the
lads about the yard when he left, for it was breakfast
time, and the little muffin didn't notice"'

But if all the other dogs are in their kennels  "

They aren't, ma'am, don't you see. The two
gentlemen took a couple of 'em to Bodmin in the
break  and I don't know which.  Sambo may have
been with them  and may have got tired of it and
come home. He's not a dog to appreciate that
kind of thing."

Go at once, if you please, Nicholls. You know
what to do."

' Yes, ma'am."

Nicholls went his way, and the gong began to
sound for luncheon. Mr. Tregonell, who rarely
honoured the family with his presence at the midday
meal, came out of his den to-day in answer to
the summons, and found his wife in the hall.

' I suppose you are coming in to luncheon he
said to her , in an angry aside. " You need not
look so scared. Your old lover is safe enough,
I daresay."

'' I am not coming to luncheon'' she answered,
looking at him with pale contempt.  If you are
not a little more careful of your words I may
never break bread with you again."

The gong went on with its discordant clamour,
and Jessie Bridgeman came out of the drawing-room
with the younger Miss Vandeleur. Poor Dopsy was
shut in her own room, with a headache. She had
been indulging herself with the feminine luxury
of a good cry. Disappointment, wounded vanity,
humiliation, and a very real penchant for the man
who had despised her attractions were the mingled
elements in her cup of woe.

The nurse came down the broad oak staircase,
baby Leonard toddling by her side, and making two
laborious jumps at each shallow step  one on  one
off. Christabel met him, picked him up in her arms,
and carried him back to the nursery, where she
ordered his dinner to be brought. He was a little

VOL. III. c

inclined to resist this change of plan at the first,
but was soon kissed into pleasantness, and then the
nurse was despatched to the servants hall, and
Christabel had her boy to herself, and ministered to
him and amused him for the space of an hour despite
an aching heart. Then, when the nurse came back,
Mrs. Tregonell went to her own room, and sat at
the window watching the avenue by which the men
must drive back to the house.

They did not come back till just when the
gloom of the sunless day was deepening into
starless night. Christabel ran down to the lobby that
opened into the stable yard, and stood in the doorway
waiting for Nicholls to come to her ; but if he
saw her, he pretended not to see her, and went
straight to the house by another way, and asked to
speak to Mr. Tregonell.

Christabel saw him hurry across the yard to that
other door, and knew that her fears were realized.
Evil of some kind had befallen. She went straight
to her husbands study, certain that she would meet
]nicholls there.

Leonard was standing by the fireplace, listening.

while Nicholls stood a little way from the door,
relating the result of his search, in a low agitated
voice.

Was he quite dead when you found him ?"
asked Leonard, when the man paused in his narration.


Christabel stood just within the doorway, half
hidden in the obscurity of the room, where there was
no light but that of the low fire. The door had been
left ajar by Nicholls, and neither he nor his master
was aware of her presence.

' Yes, Sir. Dr. Blake said he must have been
dead some hours."

Had the gun burst ?'

No, Sir. It must have gone off somehow.
Perhaps the trigger caught in the hand-rail when
he was crossing the wooden bridge  and yet that
seemed hardly possible  for he was lying on the
big stone at the other side of the bridge, with his
face downwards close to the waters

A horrible accident," said Leonard. '' There'll
be an inquest, of course. Will Blake give the
coroner notice  or must I ?"

c 2

Dr. Blake said he'd see to that. Sir'

And he is lying at the farm ''

Yes Sir. We thought it was hest to take the
body there  rather than to bring it home. It
would have been such a shock for my mistress 
and the other ladies. Dr. Blake said the inquest
would be held at the inn at Trevena.''

"Well' said Leonard with a shrug and a sigh,
it's an awful business, that's all that can be said
about it. Lucky he has no wife or children  no near
relations to feel the blow. All we can do is to show
our respect for him, now he is gone. The body had
better be brought home here, after the inquest. It
will look more respectful for him to be buried from
this house. Mrs. Tregonell's mind can be prepared
by that time'

It is prepared already," said a low voice out of
the shadow.  I have heard all."

Very sad, isn't it ?" replied Leonard; " one of
those unlucky accidents which occur every shooting
season. He was always a little awkward with a
gun  never handled one like a thoroughbred
sportsman

ff Why did lie go out shooting on the last
morning of his visit ?" asked Christabel. " It was
you who urged him to do it  you who planned
the whole things

*' I ! What nonsense you are talking. I told
him there were plenty of birds about the Sieve 
just as I told the other fellows. That will do,
Nicholls. You did all that could be done. Go
and get your dinner, but first send a mounted groom
to Trevena to ask Blake to come over here."

Nicholls bowed and retired, shutting the door
behind him.

He is dead, then," said Christabel, coming over
to the hearth where her husband was standing.
''He has been killed."

'' He has had the bad luck to kill himself, as
many a better sportsman than he has done before
now,' answered Leonard, roughly.

'* If I could be sure of that, Leonard, if I could
be sure that his death was the work of accident 
I should hardly grieve for him  knowing that he
was reconciled to the idea of death  and that if
God had spared him this sudden end, the close of

his life must have been full of pain and weariness


Tears were streaming down her cheeks  tears
which she made no effort to restrain  such tears as
friendship and affection give to the dead  tears that
had no taint of guilt. But Leonard's jealous soul
was stung to fury by those innocent tears.

Why do you stand there snivelling about him'
he exclaimed ; - do you want to remind me how fond
you were of him  and how little you ever cared forme.
Do you suppose I am stone blind  do you
suppose I don't know you to the core of your
heart?"

If you know my heart you must know that it is
as guiltless of sin against you, and as true to my
duty as a wife, as you, my husband, can desire.
But you must know that, or you would not have
brought Angus Harleigh to this house."

Perhaps I wanted to try you  to watch you and
him together  to see if the old fire was quite burnt
out."

*' You could not be so base  so contemptible."

There is no knowing what a man may be when

lie is used as I have been by you  looked down
upon from the height of a superior intellect, a
loftier nature  told to keep his distance, as a piece
of vulgar clay  hardly fit to exist beside that fine
porcelain vase, his wife. Do you think it was a
pleasant spectacle for me to see you and Angus harleigh
sympathizing and twaddling about Browning's
last poem  or sighing over a sonata of Beethoven 
I who was outside all that kind of thing?  a boor 
a dolt  to whom your fine sentiments and your
flummery were an unknown language. But I was
only putting a case, just now. I liked Harleigh
well enough  in his way  and 1 asked him here
because I thought it was giving a chance to the
Vandeleur girls. That was my motive  and my
only motives'

And he came  and he is dead' answered Chris-abel,
in icy tones. " He went to that lonely place this
morning  at your instigation  and he met his
death there  no one knows how  no one ever will
know''

"At my instigation?  confound it, Christabel 
you have no right to say such things. T told him it

was a good place for woodcock  aud it pleased his
fancy to try Ms luck there before he left. Lonely
place be hanged. It is a place to which every tourist
goes  it is as well known as the road to this houses

Yet he was lying there for hours and no one
knew. If Nicholls had not gone he might be lying
there still. He may have lain there wounded  his
life-blood ebbing away  dying by inches  without
help  without a creature to succour or comfort him.
It was a cruel place  a place where no help could
comes*

Fortune of wars answered Leonard, with a
careless shrug. " A sportsman must die where his
shot finds him. There's many a day I might have
fallen in the Rockies, and lain there for the lynxes
and the polecats to pick my bones ; and I have
walked shoulder to shoulder with death on mountain
passes, when every step on the crumbling
track might send me sliding down to the bottomless
pit below. As for poor Harleigh; well, as you
say yourself, he was a doomed man  a little sooner
or later could not make much difference."

Perhaps not* said Christabel, gloomily, going

slowly to the door ; '' but T want to know how he
died/

Let us hope the coroner's inquest will make
your mind easy on that point' retorted her husband
as she left the room.

CHAPTER 11.

** YOURS ON Monday Gods TO-DAY.

The warning gong sounded at half-past seven as
usual, and at eight the butler announced dinner.
Captain Vandeleur and Mr. Montagu had returned
from Bodmin, and they were grouped in front of
the fire talking in undertones with Mr. Tregonell,
while Christabel and the younger Miss Vandeleur sat
on a sofa, silent, after a few murmured expressions
of grief on the part of the latter lady.

' It is like a dream' sighed Mopsy, this being
the one remark which a young person of her calibre
inevitably makes upon such an occasion. " It is
like a dreadful dream  playing billiards last night,
and now  dead ! It is too awful."

Yes, it is awful ; Death is always awful,"
answered Christabel, mechanically.

She had told herself that it was her duty to
appear at the dinner-table  to fulfil all her responsibilities

as wife and hostess  not to give any one
the right to say that she was bemoaning him who
had once been her lover; and she was here to do
her duty. She wanted all the inhabitants of her
little world to see that she mourned for him only
as a friend grieves for the loss of a friend  soberly,
with pious submission to the Divine Will that had
taken him away. For two hours she had remained
on her knees beside her bed, drowned in tears,
numbed by despair, feeling as if life could not goon
without him, as if this heavily-beating heart of
hers must be slowly throbbing to extinction : and
then the light of reason had begun to glimmer
through the thick gloom of grief, and her lips had
moved in prayer, and, as if in answer to her prayers,
came the image of her child, to comfort and sustain
her.

'* Let me not dishonour my darlings she prayed.
*' Let me remember that I am a mother as well asa
wife. If I owe my husband very little, I owe my
son everything.'

Inspired by that sweet thought of her boy, unwilling,
for his sake, to give occasion for even the

feeblest scandal, she had washed the tears from
her pale cheeks, and put on a dinner gown, and had
gone down to the drawing-room just ten minutes
before the announcement of dinner.

She remembered how David, when his beloved
was dead, had risen and washed and gone back to
the business of life. ' What use are my tears to
him, now he is gone ?" she said to herself, as she
went downstairs.

Miss Bridgeman was not in the drawing-room ;
but Mopsy was there, dressed in black, and looking
very miserable.

I could not get poor Dop to come downs she
said, apologetically. " She has been lying on her bed
crying ever since she heard the dreadful news. She
is so sensitive, poor girl; and she liked him so
much ; and he had been so attentive to her. I hope
you'll excuse her T'

*' Please don't apologize. I can quite imagine
that this shock has been dreadful for her  for everyone
in the house. Perhaps you would rather dine
upstairs, so as to be with your sister V

'' No !'* answered Mopsy, taking Christabel's

hand, with a touch of real feeling. " I had rather
be with you. You must feel his loss more than we
can  you had known him so much longer. 

Yes, it is just five years since he came to Mount
E/Oyal. Five years is not much in the lives of some
people ; but it seems the greater part of my life.

*' We will go away to-morrow said Mopsy. " I
am sure you will be glad to get rid of us : it will
be a relief, I mean. Perhaps at some future time
you will let us come again for a little while. We
have been so intensely happy heres'

' Then I shall be happy for you to come again 
next summer, if we are here' answered Christabel,
kindly, moved by Mopsy's naivete : ' one can never
tell. Next year seems so far ofi" in the hour of
trouble''

Dinner was announced, and they all went in, and
made believe to dine, in a gloomy silence, broken
now and then by dismal attempts at general conversation
on the part of the men. Once Mopsy
took heart of grace and addressed her brother :

Did you like the hanging, Jack ?" she asked, as
if it were a play.

No, it was hideous, detestable. I will never put
myself in the way of being so tortured again. The
guillotine is swifter and more merciful. I saw a
man blown from a gun in India  there were bits
of him on my boots when I got home  but it was
not so bad as the hanging to-day : the limp, helpless,
figure, swaying and trembling in the hangman's
grip while they put the noose on, the cap dragged
roughly over the ghastly face, the monotonous croak
of the parson reading on like a machine, while the
poor wretch was being made ready for his doom.
It was all horrible to the last degree. Why can't
we poison our criminals : let them die comfortably,
as Socrates died, of a dose of some strong narcotic.
The parson might have some chance  sitting by the
dying man's bed, in the quiet of his cell."

It would be much nicer," said Mopsy.

Where's Miss Bridgeman ?" Leonard asked
suddenly, looking round the table, as if only that
moment perceiving her absence.

She is not in her room, Sir. Mary thinks
she has gone out," answered the butler.

Gone out  after dark. What can have been

her motive for going oat at such an hour V asked
Leonard of his wife, angrily.

"I have no idea. She may have been sent
for by some sick person. You know how good
she is/

I know what a humbug she is/ retorted
Leonard. '' Daniel, go and find out if any messenger
came for Miss Bridgeman  or if she left any
message for your mistress. '

Daniel went out, and came back again in five
minutes. No one had seen any messenger  no
one had seen Miss Bridgeman go out.

' That's always the case here when I want to
ascertain a facts growled Leonard : " no one sees or
knows anything. There are twice too many servants
for one to be decently served. Well, it
doesn't matter much. Miss Bridgeman is old
enough to take care of herself  and if she walks
off a cliff  it will be her loss and nobody else's'

I don't think you ought to speak like that of
a person whom your mother loved  and who is my
most intimate friends said Christabel, with grave
reproach.

Leonard had drunk a good deal at dinner ; and
indeed there had been an inclination on the part of
all three men to drown their gloomy ideas in wine,
while even Mopsy, who generally took her fair
share of champagne, allowed the butler to fill her
glass rather oftener than usual  sighing as she
sipped the sparkling bright coloured wine, and
remembering, even in the midst of her regret for
the newly dead, that she would very soon have
returned to a domicile where Most was not the
daily beverage, nay, where, at times, the very
beer-barrel ran dry.

After dinner Christabel went to the nursery.
It flashed upon her with acutest pain as she entered
the room, that when last she had been there she
had not known of Angus Harleigh's death. He
had been lying yonder by the waterfall, dead, and
she had not known. And now the fact of his
death was an old thing  part of the history of her
life.

The time when he was alive and with her,
full of bright thoughts and poetic fancies, seemed
ever so long ago. Yet it was only yesterday 

yesterday, and gone front her life as utterly as if
it were an episode in the records of dead and gone
ages  as old as the story of Tristan and Iseult.
She sat with her boy till he fell asleep, and sat
beside him as he slept, in the dim light of the night-lamp,
thinking of him who lay dead in the lonely
farmhouse among those green hills they two had
loved so well  hushed by the voice of the distant
sea, sounding far inland in the silence of night.

She remembered how he had talked last night of
the undiscovered country, and how, as he talked,
with flushed cheeks, and too brilliant eyes, she
had seen the stamp of death on his face. They
had talked of " The Gates Ajar," a book which they
had read together in the days gone by, and which
Christabel had often returned to since that time 
a book in which the secrets of the future are
touched lightly by a daring but a delicate hand 
a book which accepts every promise of the Gospel in
its most literal sense, and overflows with an exultant
belief in just such a Heaven as poor humanity wants.
In this author's creed transition from death to life
is instant  death is the Lucina of life. There is no

VOL. m. D

long lethargy of the grave, there is no time of darkness.
Straight from the bed of death the spirit
rushes to the arms of the beloved ones who have
gone before. Death, so glorified, becomes only the
reunion of love.

He had talked of Socrates, and the faithful few who
waited at the prison doors in the early morning,
when the sacred ship had returned, and the end
was near; and of that farewell discourse in the
upper chamber of the house at Jerusalem which
seems dimly foreshadowed by the philosopher's
converse with his disciples  at Athens, the struggle
towards light  at Jerusalem the light itself in
fullest glory.

Christabel felt herself bound by no social duty to
return to the drawing-room, more especially as
Miss Vandeleur had gone upstairs to sit with the
afflicted Dopsy  who was bewailing the dead very
sincerely in her own fashion, with little bursts of
hysterical tears and fragmentary remarks.

I know he didn't care a straw for me''  she
gasped, dabbing her temples with a handkerchief
soaked in eau-de-cologne  " yet it seemed sometimes

almost as if he did : he was so attentive 
but then he had such lovely manners  no doubt
he was just as attentive to all girls. Oh, Mop, if he
had cared for me, and if I had married him 
what a paradise this earth would have been. Mr.
Tregonell told me that he had quite four thousand
a year'

And thus  and thus, with numerous variations
on the same theme  poor Dopsy mourned for the
dead man ; while the low murmur of the distant
sea, beating for ever and for ever against the horned
cliffs, and dashing silvery white about the base of
that Echard Rock which looks like a couchant
lion keeping guard over the shore, sounded like
a funeral chorus in the pauses of her talk.

It was half-past ten when Christabel left hei
boys bed-side, and, on her way to her own room,
suddenly remembered Jessie's unexplained absence.

She knocked at Miss Bridgeman's door twice,
but there was no answer, and then she opened
the door and looked in, expecting to find the room
empty.

Jessie was sitting in front of the fire in her hat

D 2

and jacket, staring at the burning coals. There
was no light in the room, except the glow and
flame of the fire, but even in that cheerful light Jessie
looked deadly pale. *' Jessie' exclaimed Chris-abel,
going up to her and putting a gentle hand
upon her shoulder, for she took no notice of the
opening of the door, " where in heavens name
have you been T*

' Where should I have been ? Surely you can
guess ! I have been to see him."

To the farm  alone  at night ?"

' Alone  at night  yes ! I would have walked
through storm and fire  I would have walked

through '' she set her lips like iron, and

muttered through her clenched teeth, '' HeJl.''

Jessie, Jessie, how foolish ! What good could
it do ?'

' None to him, I know, but perhaps a little tome.
I think if I had stayed here I should have
gone stark, staring mad. I felt my brain reeling as
I sat and thought of him in the twilight, and then
it seemed to me as if the only comfort possible was
in looking at his dead face  holding his dead hand

and I have done it, and am comforted  a
little she said, with a laugh, which ended ina
convulsive sob.

My good warm-hearted Jessie !" murmured
Christabel, bending over her lovingly, tears raining
down her cheeks ; " I know you always liked
him.'

Always liked him !" echoed the other, staring
at the fire, in blank tearless grief; ' liked him?
yes, always."

But you must not take his death so despairingly,
dear. You know that, under the fairest
circumstances, he had not very long to live. We
both knew that.

' Yes ! we knew it. I knew  thought that I
had realized the fact  told myself every day that
in a few months he would be hidden from us underground
 gone to a life where we cannot follow him
even with our thoughts, though we pretend to be
so sure about it, as those women do in ' The Gates
Ajar. I told myself this every day. And yet, now
that he is snatched away suddenly  cruelly  mysteriously
 it is as hard to bear as if I had believed that

he would live a hundred years. I am not like you, a
piece of statuesque perfection. I cannot say ' Thy
will be done when my dearest  the only man T ever
loved upon this wide earth is snatched from me.
Does that shock your chilly propriety, yon who
only half loved him, and who broke his heart at
another woman's bidding ? Yes ! I loved him from
the first  loved him all the while he was your lover,
and found it enough for happiness to be in his
company  to see and hear him, and answer every
thought of his with sympathetic thoughts of mine 
understanding him quicker and better than you could,
bright as you are  happy to go about with you
two  to be the shadow in the sunshine of your glad
young lives, just as a dog who loved him would
have been happy following at his heels. Yes,
Belle, I loved him  I think almost from the hour
he came here, in the sweet autumn twilight,
when I saw that poetic face, half in fire-glow
and half in darkness  loved him always, always,
always, and admired him as the most perfect among
men V

Jessie, my dearest, my bravest ! And you were

so true and loyal. You never by word or look
betrayed "

' What do you think of me ?" cried Jessie indignantly.
' Do you suppose that I would not rather
have cut out my tongue  thrown myself off the
nearest cliff  than give him one lightest occasion to
suspect what a paltry-souled creature I was  so
weak that I could not cure myself of loving another
woman's lover. While he lived I hated myself for
my folly ; now he is dead, I glory in the thought of
how I loved him  how I gave him the most
precious treasures of my soul  my reverence  my
regard  my tears and hopes and prayers. Those
are the only gold and frankincense and myrrh
which the poor of this earth can offer, and I gave
them freely to my divinity V

Christabel laid her hand upon the passionate
lips ; and, kneeling by her friend's side, comforted
her with gentle caresses.

Do you suppose I am not sorry for him,
Jessie ?" she said reproachfully, after a long pause.

Yes, no doubt you are, in your way ; but it is
such an icy way''

Would you have me go raving about the house
1, Leonardoss wife, Leo's mother ? I try to resign
myself to God's will : but I shall remember him till
the end of my days, with unspeakable sorrow. He
was like sunshine in my life ; so that life without
him seemed all one dull gray, till the baby came,
and brought me back to the sunlight, and gave me
new duties, new cares V'

Yes ! you can find comfort in a baby's arms 
that is a blessing. My comfort was to see my
beloved in his bloody shroud  shot through the
heart  shot through the heart ! Well, the inquest
will find out something to morrow, I hope ; but I
want you to go with me tomorrow morning, as soon
as it is light, to the Sieve."

What for r

To see the spot where he died."

What will be the good, Jessie ? I know the
place too well j it has been in my mind all this
evening''

There will be some good, perhaps. At any
rate, I want you to go with me ; and if there ever
was any reality in your love, if you are not merely

a "beautiful piece of mechanism, with a heart that
beats by clockwork, you will go."

'' If you wish it I will go/

As soon as it is light  say at seven o'clock."

I will not go till after breakfast. I want the
business of the house to go on just as calmly as if
this calamity had never happened. I don't want
any one to be able to say, ' Mrs. Tregonell is in
despair at the loss of her old lover "

"In fact you want people to suppose that you
never cared for him V

They cannot suppose that, when I was once so
proud of my love. All I want is that no one
should think I loved him too well after I was a wife
and mother. I will give no occasion for scandals

DidnH I say that you were a handsome '


I do not want any one to say hard things
of me when I am dead  hard things that my son
may hears'

When you are dead ! You talk as if you
thought you were to die soon. You are of the
stuff that wears to threescore-and-ten, and even

beyond the Psalmist's limit. There is no friction
for natures of your calibre. When Werther had shot
himself, Charlotte went on cutting bread and butter,
done you know ? It was her nature to be proper,
and good, and useful, and never to give offence  her
nature to cut bread and buttered concluded Jessie,
laughing bitterly.

Christabel stayed with her for an hour, talking to
her, consoling her, speaking hopefully of that unknown
world, so fondly longed for, so piously believed
in by the woman who had learnt her creed at Mrs.
TregonelFs knees. Many tears were shed by Christened
during that hour of mournful talk ; but not oneby
Jessie Bridgeman. Hers was a dry-eyed grief.

After breakfast then we will walk to the Kieve,'
said Jessie, as Christabel left her.  Would it be
too much to ask you to make it as early as you
can ?"

I will go the moment I am free. Good-night,
dears'

CHAPTER III.

DUEL OR MURDER?

All the household appeared at breakfast next
morning ; even poor Dopsy who felt that she could
not nurse her grief in solitude any longer. " It's
behaving too much as if you were his widows
Mopsy had told her, somewhat harshly; and then
there was the task of packing, since they were to
leave Mount Royal at eleven, in order to be at
Launceston in time for the one o clock train. This
morning's breakfast was less silent than the dinner
of yesterday. Everybody felt as if Mr. Harleigh
had been dead at least a week.

Captain Vandeleur and Mr. Montagu discussed
the sad event openly, as if the time for reticence
were past ; speculated and argued as to how the
accident could have happened; talked learnedly
about guns ; wondered whether the country surgeon
was equal to the difficulties of the case.

I can't understands said Mr. Montagu, ' if
he was found lying in the hollow by the waterfall,
how his gun came to go ofiP. If he had been going
through a hedge or among the brushwood on the
slope of the hill , it would be easy enough to see how
the thing might have happened ; but as it is, I'm all
in the dark."

You had better go and watch the inquest, and
make yourself useful to the coroner' sneered
Leonard, who had been drinking his coffee in moody
silence until now. " You seem to think yourself
so uncommonly clever and far seeing."

Well I flatter myself I know as much about
sport as most men ; and Fve handled a gun before
to-day, and know that the worst gun that was ever
made won't go off and shoot a fellow through the
heart without provocation of some kind."

Who said he was shot through the heart ?"

Somebody did  one of your people, I think."

Mrs. Tregonell sat at the other end of the table,

half hidden by the large old-fashioned silver urn, and

next her sat Jessie Bridgeman, a spare small figure

in a close-fitting black gown , a pale drawn face with

a look of burnt-out fires  pale as the crater when
the volcanic forces have exhausted themselves. At
a look from Christabel she rose, and they two left
the room together. Five minutes later they had
left the house, and were walking towards the cliff,
by following which they could reach the Sieve
without going down into Boscastle. It was a wild
walk for a windy autumn day ; but these two loved
its wildness  had walked here in many a happy
hour, with souls full of careless glee. Now they
walked silently, swiftly, looking neither to the sea
nor the land, though both were at their loveliest in
the shifting lights and shadows of an exquisite
October morning  sunshine enough to make one
believe it was summer  breezes enough to blow about
the fleecy clouds in the blue clear sky, to ripple the
soft dun-coloured heather on the hillocky common,
and to give life and variety to the sea.

It was a long walk ; but the length of the way
seemed of little account to these two. Christabel
had only the sense of a dreary monotony of grief
Time and space had lost their meaning. This dull
aching sorrow was to last for ever  till the grave 

broken only by brief intervals of gladness and
forgetfulness with her boy.

To-day she could hardly keep this one source of
consolation in her mind. All her thoughts were
centred upon him who lay yonder dead.

Jessie she said, suddenly laying her hand on
her companion's wrist, as they crossed the common
above the slate-quarry, seaward of Trevalga village,
with its little old church and low square tower.
Jessie, I am not going to see him''

What weak stuff you are made of," muttered
Jessie, contemptuously, turning to look into the
white frightened face. " No, you are not going to
look, upon the dead. You would be afraid, and it
might cause scandal. No, you are only going to
see the place where he died ; and then perhaps you,
or I, will see a little further into the darkness that
hides his fate. You heard how those men were
puzzling their dull brains about it at breakfast.
Even they can see that there is a mystery."

What do you mean ?"

*' Only as much as I say. I know nothing  yet.'

But you suspect ?"

Yes. My mind is full of suspicion ; but it
is all guess-work  no shred of evidence to go
upon/

They came out of a meadow into the high road
presently  the pleasant rustic road which so many
happy holiday-making people tread in the sweet
summer time  the way to that wild spot where
England's first hero was born ; the Englishman's
Troy, cradle of that fair tradition out of which
grew the Englishman's Iliad.

Beside the gate through which they came lay that
mighty slab of spar which has been christened King
Arthur's Quoit, but which the Rector of Trevalga
declared to be the covering stone of a Cromlech.
Christabel remembered how facetious they had all
been about Arthur and his game of quoits, five years
ago, in the bright autumn weather, when the leaves
were blown about so lightly in the warm west wind.
And now the leaves fell with a mournful heaviness,
and every falling leaf seemed an emblem of death.

They went to the door of the farm-house to get
the key of the gate which leads to the Sieve.
Christabel stood in the little quadrangular garden,

looking up at the house while Jessie rang and asked
for what she wanted.

' Did no one except Mr. Harleigh go to the
Sieve yesterday until the men went to look for
him T' she asked of the young woman who brought
her the key.

"No one else, Miss. No one but him had the
key. They found it in the pocket of his shooting
jacket when he was brought here's

Involuntarily, Jessie put the key to her lips.
His hand was almost the last that had touched it.

Just as they were leaving the garden, where the
last of the yellow dahlias were fading, Christabel
took Jessie by the arm, and stopped her.

In which room is he lying T' she asked. ' Can
we see the window from here T'

Yes, it is that one."

Jessie pointed to a low, latticed window in the
old gray house  a casement round which myrtle and
honeysuckle clung lovingly. The lattice stood open.
The soft sweet air was blowing into the room, just
faintly stirring the white dimity curtain. And he
was lying there in that last ineffable repose.

They went up the steep lane, between tall tangled
hedges, where the ragged robin still showed his
pinky blossoms, and many a pale yellow hawksweed
enlivened the faded foliage, while the ferns upon the
banks, wet from yesterday's rain, still grew rankly
green.

On the crest of the hill the breeze grew keener,
and the dead leaves were being ripped from the
hedgerows, and whirled down into the hollow, where
the autumn wind seemed to follow Christabel
and Jessie as they descended, with a long plaintive
minor cry, like the lament at an Irish funeral. All
was dark and desolate in the green valley, as Jessie
unlocked the gate, and they went slowly down the
steep slippery path, among moss-grown rock and
drooping fern  down and down, by sharply
winding ways, so narrow that they could only go
one by one, till they came within the sound of the
rushing water, and then down into the narrow
cleft, where the waterfall tumbles into a broad
shallow bed, and dribbles away among green slimy
rocks.

Here there is a tiny bridge  a mere plank  that

VOL. III. E

spans the water with a hand-rail on one side. They
crossed this,, and stood on the broad flat stone on
the other side. This is the very heart of St.
Nectan's mystery. Here, high in air, the water
pierces the rock, and falls, a slender silvery column,
into the rocky bed below.

Look !" said Jessie Bridgeman, pointing down
at the stone.

There were marks of blood upon it  the traces of
stains which had been roughly wiped away by the
men who found the body.

"This is where he stood,"* said Jessie, looking
round, and then she ran suddenly across to the
narrow path on the other side. " And some one else
stood here  here  just at the end of the bridge.
There are marks of other feet heres"*

Those of the men who came to look for him,"*
said Christ abel.

Yes ; that makes it difficult to tell. There are
the traces of many feet. Yet I knows she muttered,
with clenched teeth, " that some one stood here 
just here  and shot him. They were standing
face to face. See !"  she stepped the bridge with

light swift feet  ' so ! at ten paces. Doubt you
see r

Christabel looked at her with a white scared face,
remembering her husband's strange manner the
night before last, and those parting words at Mr.
Harleigh's bedroom door. " You understand my
plan V '' Perfectly .'' " It saves all trouble, don't
you see"" Those few words had impressed themselves
upon her memory  insignificant as they were
because of something in the tone in which they
were spoken  something in the manner of the two
men.

'you mean' she said slowly, with her hand
clenching the rail of the bridge, seeking unconsciously
for support ; '' you mean that Angus and
my husband met here by appointment, and fought
a duel?"

That is my reading of the mystery

in this lonely place  without witnesses 
my husband murdered him V

They would not count it murder. Fate might
have been the other way. Your husband might
have been killed."

E %


'' No !" cried Christabel, passionately ; ' Angus
would not have killed him. That would have been
too deep a dishonour '/'

She stood silent for a few moments, white as
death, looking round her with wide, despairing
eyes.

He has been murdered V' she said, in hoarse,
faint tones. '' That suspicion has been in my mind
dark  shapeless  horrible  from the first. He
has been murdered ! And I am to spend the rest
of my life with his murderer !' Then, with
a sudden hysterical cry, she turned angrily upon
Jessie.

How dare you tell lies about my husband V
she exclaimed. " Don't you know that nobody came
here yesterday except Angus; no one else had the
key. The girl at the farm told us so'

The key V echoed Jessie, contemptuously.
Do you think a gate, breast high, would keep out
an athlete like your husband ? Besides, there is
another way of getting here, without going near the
gate, where he might be seen, perhaps, by some farm
labourer in the field. The men were ploughing

there yesterday, and heard a shot. They told me
that last night at the farm. Wait ! wait V' cried
Jessie, excitedly.

She rushed away, light as a lapwing, flying
across the narrow bridge  bounding from stone to
stone  vanishing amidst dark autumn foliage.
Christabel heard her steps dying away in the
distance. Then there was an interval of some
minutes, during which Christabel, hardly caring to
wonder what had become of her companion, stood
clinging to the handrail, and staring down at stones
and shingle, feathery ferns, sodden ed logs, the water
rippling and lapping round all things, crystal clear.

Then, startled by a voice above her head, she
looked up, and saw Jessie's light figure just as she
dropped herself over the sharp arch of rock, and
scrambled through the cleft, hanging on by her
hands, finding a foothold in the most perilous places
in danger of instant death.

My God V' murmured Christabel, with clasped
hands, not daring to cry aloud lest she should increase
Jessie's peril. " She will be killed'

AVith a nervous grip, and a muscular strength

which no one could have supposed possible in so
slender a frame, Jessie Bridgeman made good her
descent, and stood on the shelf of slippery rock,
below the waterfall, unhurt save for a good many
scratches and cuts upon the hands that had clung
so fiercely to root and bramble, crag and boulder.

What I could do your husband could do, she
said. ' He did it often when he was a boy  you
must remember his boasting of it. He did it
yesterday. Look at this."

*this" was a ragged narrow shred of heather
cloth, with a brick-dust red tinge in its dark
warp, which Leonard had much affected this year 
Mr. TregonelFs colour, is it not ?" asked Jessie.

' Yes  it is like his coat.''

Like ? It is a part of his coat. I found it
hanging on a bramble, at the top of the cleft. Try
if you can find the coat when you get home, and
see if it is not torn. But most likely he will have
hidden the clothes he wore yesterday. Murderers
generally do."

How dare you call him a murderer ?" said
Christabel, trembling, and cold to the heart. It

seemed to her as if the mild autumnal air  herein
this sheltered nook which was always warmer
than the rest of the world  had suddenly become
an icy blast that blew straight from far away
arctic seas. " How dare you call my husband a
murderer T'

 Oh , I forgot. It was a duel I suppose : a fair
fight, planned so skilfully that the result should
seem like an accident and the survivor should run
no risk. Stilly to my mind, it was murder all the
same  for I know who provoked the quarrel  yes 
and you know  you, who are his wife  and who,
for respectability's sake, will try to shield him  -
you know  for you must have seen hatred and
murder in his face that night when he came into
the drawing-room  and asked Mr. Hamleigli for a
few words in private. It was then he planned this
work'' pointing to the broad level stone against
which the clear water was rippling with such a
pretty playful sound, while those two women stood
looking at each other with pale intent faces, fixed
eyes, and tremulous lips ; " and Angus Ilamlcigh,
who valued his brief remnant of earthly life so

lightly, consented  reluctantly perhaps  but too
proud to refuse. And he fired in the air  yes, I
know he would not have injured your husband by
so much as a hair of his head  I know him well
enough to be sure of that. He came here like the
victim to the altar. Leonard Tregonell must have
known that. And I say that though he, with his
Mexican freebooter's morality, may have called ita
fair fight, it was murder, deliberate, diabolical
murder."

' If this is true'' said Christabel in a low voice,
I will have no mercy upon him''

' Oh, yes, you will. You will sacrifice feeling
to propriety, you will put a good face upon things,
for the sake of your son. You were born and
swaddled in the purple of respectability. You
will not stir a linger to avenge the dead."

I will have no mercy upon him," repeated
Christabel, with a strange look in her eyes.

CHAPTER IV.

DUST TO DUST/

The inquest at the WharnclifFe Arms was conducted
in a thoroughly respectable, unsuspicious manner.
No searching questions were asked, no inferences
drawn. To the farmers and tradespeople who constituted
that rustic jury, the case seemed too simple to
need any severe interrogation. A gentleman staying ina
country house goes out shooting, and is so unlucky
as to shoot himself instead of the birds whereof he
went in search. He is found with an empty bag, and
a charge of swan-shot through his heart.

' Hard lines' as Jack Vandeleur observed, sottovoce,
to a neighbouring squire, while the inquest was
pursuing its sleepy course, " and about the queerest
fluke I ever saw on any table'

"Was it a fluke?" muttered little Montagu,
lifting himself on tiptoe to watch the proceedings.
He and his companions were standing amoiig a little

crowd at the door of the justice-room. " It looks
to me uncommonly as if Mr. Harleigh had shot
himself. AVe all know he was deadly sweet on
Mrs. T. , although both of them behaved beautifully.''

' Men have died  and worms have eaten them
but not for love' quoted Captain Vandeleur who
had a hearsay knowledge of Shakspeare though
he had never read a Shakspeare play in his life.
If Harleigh was so dead tired of life that he
wanted to kill himself he could have done it comfortably
in his own room."

He might wish to avoid the imputation of
suicide."

PshaW; how can any man care what comes
afterwards ? Bury me where four roads meet,
with a stake through my body,, or in Westminster
Abbey under a marble monument, and the result is
just the same to me."

That's because you are an out-and-out Bohemian.
But Harleigh was a dandy in all things.
He would be nice about the details of his death."

Mr. Harleigh's valet was now being questioned
as to his master's conduct and manner on the

morning he left Mount Royal. The man replied
that his masters manner had been exactly the same
as usual. He was always very quiet  said no
more than was necessary to be said. He was a
kind master but never familiar. " He never made
a companion of me," said the man , " though
Id been with him at home and abroad twelve
years ; but a better master never lived. He was
always an early riser  there was nothing out of
the way in his getting up at six and going out at
seven. There was only one thing at all out of the
common, and that was his attending to his gun
himself, instead of telling me to get it ready for him.

'' Had he many guns with him ?"

' Only two. The one he took was an old gun 
a favourite."

Do you know why he took swan-shot to shoot
woodcocks ?"

No  unless he made a mistake in the charge.
He took the cartridges out of the case himself, and
put them into his pocket. He was an experienced
sportsman, though he was never as fond of sport
as the generality of gentlemen."

Do you know if he had been troubled in mind
of late ?

No ; I don't think he had any trouble on his
mind. He was in very bad health, and knew that
he had not long to live ; but he seemed quite
happy and contented. Indeed, judging by what I
saw of him, I should say that he was in a more
easy, contented frame of mind during the last few
months than he had ever been for the last four
years."

This closed the examination. There had been
very few witnesses called  only the medical man,
the men who had found the body, the girl at the
farm, who declared that she had given the key to
Mr. Harleigh a little before eight that morning,
that no one else had asked for the key till the
men came from Mount Royal  that, to her knowledge,
no one but the men at work on the farm
had gone up the lane that morning. A couple of
farm labourers gave the same testimony  they had
been at work in the topmost field all the morning,
and no one had gone to the Sieve that way except
the gentleman that was killed. They had heard a

shot  or two shots  they were not certain which,
fired between eight and nine. They were not very
clear as to the hour, and they could not say for
certain whether they heard one or two shots ; but
they knew that the report was a very loud one 
unusually loud for a sportsman shot.

Mr. Tregonell, although he was in the room
ready to answer any questions, was not interrogated.
The jury went in a wagonette to see the body, which
was still lying at the farm and returned after a brief
inspection of that peaceful clay  the countenance
wearing that beautiful calm which is said to be
characteristic of death from a gun-shot wound 
to give their verdict.

' Death by misadventure.

The body was carried to Mount Royal after
dark and three days later there was a stately
funerals to which first cousins and second cousins
of the dead came as from the four corners of the
earth ; for Angus Harleigh, dying a bachelor, and
leaving a handsome estate behind him, was a person
to be treated with all those last honours which
affectionate kindred can offer to poor humanity.

He was buried in the little churchyard in the
hollow where Christabel and he had heard the robin
singing and the dull thud of the earth thrown out of
an open grave in the calm autumn sunlight. Now
in the autumn his own grave was dug in the same
peaceful spot  in accordance with a note which his
valet, who knew his habits found in a diary.

 Oct. 11.  If I should die in Cornwall  and
there are times when I feel as if death were nearer
than my doctor told me at our last interview  I
should like to be buried in Minster Churchyard.
I have outlived all family associations and I should
like to lie in a spot which is dear to me for its own
sakes

A wil had been found in Mr. HamleigVs despatch
box which receptacle was opened by his
lawyer, who came from London on purpose to take
charge of any papers which his client might have
in his possession at the time of his death. The
bulk of his papers were no doubt in his chambers
in the Albany; chambers which he had taken on
(coming of age ; and which he had occupied at intervals
ever since.

Mr. Tregonell showed himself keenly anxious
that everything should be done in a strictly legal
manner, and it was by his own hand that the lawyer
was informed of his clients death, and invited to
Mount Royal. Mr. Bryanstone, the solicitor, a
thorough man of the world, and an altogether agreeable
person, appeared at the Manor House two days
before the funeral, and, being empowered by Mr.
Tregonell to act as he pleased, sent telegrams far
and wide to the dead manes kindred, who came
trooping like carrion crows to the funeral feast.

Angus Harleigh was buried in the afternoon ; a
mild, peaceful afternoon at the end of October, with
a yellow light in the western sky, which deepened
and brightened as the funeral train wound across
the valley, climbed the steep street of Boscastle, and
then wound slowly downwards into the green heart
of the hill, to the little rustic burial place. That
orb of [molten gold was sinking behind the edge of
the moor just when the Vicar read the last words of
the funeral service. Golden and crimson gleams
touched the landscape here and there, golden lights
still] lingered on the sea, as the mourners, so

thoroughly formal and conventional for the most
part  Jack Vandeleur and little Monty amidst the
train with carefully-composed features  went back
to their carriages. And then the shades of evening
came slowly down, and spread a dark pall over hillside,
and hedgerow, and churchyard, where there was
no sound but the monotonous fall of the earth, which
the grave-digger was shovelling into that new grave.

There had been no women at the funeral. Those
two who, each after her own peculiar fashion, had
loved the dead man, were shut in their own rooms,
thinking of him, picturing, with too vivid imagery,
the lowering of the coffin in the new-made grave 
hearing the solemn monotony of the clergyman
voice, sounding clear in the clear air  the first
shovelful of earth falling on the coffin-lid  dust to
dust ; dust to dust.

Lamps were lighted in the drawing-room, where
the will was to be read. A large wood fire burned
brightly  pleasant after the lowered atmosphere of
evening. Wines and other refreshments stood on
a table near the hearth ; another table stood ready
for the lawyer. So far as there could be, or ought

to be comfort and cheeriness on so sad an occasion,
comfort and cheeriness were here. The cousins 
first and second  warmed themselves before the
fire, and discoursed in low murmurs of the time and
the trouble it had cost them to reach this out of the
way hole, and discussed the means of getting away
from it. Mr. Tregonell stood on one side of the
hearth, leaning his broad back heavily against the
sculptured chimney piece, and listening moodily to
Captain Vandeleurs muttered discourse. He had
insisted upon keeping his henchman with him during
this gloomy period ; sending an old servant as far
as Plymouth to see the Miss Vandeleurs into the
London train, rather than part with his familiar
friend. Even Mr. Montagu, who had delicately
hinted at departure, was roughly bidden to remain.

I shall be going away myself in a week or so,'
said Mr. Tregonell. " I don't mean to spend the
winter at this fag-end of creation. It will be time
enough for you to go when I go'

The friends, enjoying free quarters which were
excellent in their way, and having no better berths
in view, freely forgave the bluntness of the invitation,

VOL. m. r

and stayed. But they commented between themselves
in the seclusion of the smoking room upon
the Squire's disinclination to be left without cheerful
company.

' He's infernally nervous that's what it all
means," said little Monty who had all that cock-sparrows
pluck which small men are wont to
possess  the calm security of insignificance. ' You
wouldn't suppose a great burly fellow like Tregonell,
who has travelled all over the world, would be scared
by a death in his house,, would you ?"

' Death is awful, let it come when it will'
answered Jack Vandeleur, dubiously. ' I've seen
plenty of hard-hitting in the hill-country, but I'd
go a long way to avoid seeing a strange dog die,
let alone a dog I was fond of."

*Tregonell couldn't have been very fond of
Harleigh, that's certain," said Monty.

 They seemed good friends."

' Seemed ; yes. But do you suppose Tregonell
ever forgot that Mr. Harleigh and his wife had
once been engaged to be married ? It isn't inhuman
nature to forget that kind of thing. And

he made believe that he asked Harleigh here to
give one of your sisters a chance of getting a rich
husbands said Monty rolling up a cigarette, as he
sat adroitly balanced on the arm of a large chair,
and shaking his head gently, with lowered eyelids,
and a cynical smile curling his thin lips. ' That
was a little too thin. He asked Harleigh here
because he was savagely jealous, and suspected his
motive for turning up in this part of the country,
and wanted to see how he and Mrs. Tregonell
would carry on.

Whatever he waited, Fm sure he saw no harm
in either of them, said Captain Vandeleur. " Fm
as quick as any man at twigging that kind of thing,
and 111 swear that it was all fair and above board
with those two ; they behaved beautifully."

'' So they did, poor things,' answered Monty, in
his little purring way. ' And yet Tregonell wasn't
happy''

' He'd have been better pleased if Harleigh had
proposed to my sister, as he ought to have done,"
said Vandeleur, trying to look indignant at the
memory of Dopsy's wrongs.

r2

' Now drop that old Van' said Monty, laughing
softly and pleasantly, as lie lit his cigarette, and
began to smoke, dreamily, daintily, like a man for
whom smoking is a fine art. " Sink your sister.
As I said before, that's too thin. Dopsy is a dear
little girl  one of the five or six and twenty nice
girls whom I passionately adore ; but she was never
anywhere within range of Harleigh. First and
foremost she isn't his style, and secondly he has
never got over the loss of Mrs. Tregonell. He
behaved beautifully while he was here ; but he was
just as much in love with her as he was four years
ago, when I used to meet them at dances  a regular
pair of Arcadian lovers ; Daphne and Chloe, and
that kind of thing. She only wanted a crook to
make the picture perfect."

And now Mr. Bryanstone had hummed and
hawed a little, and had put on a pair of gold-rimmed
spectacles, and cousins near and distant ceased
their conversational undertones, and seated themselves
conveniently to listen.

The will was brief. " To Percy Hitherto,

'sto my servant, John Darby, five hundred pounds
in consols.

To my housekeeper in the Albany, two hundred
and fifty.

To James Bryanstone, my very kind friend and
solicitor of Lincoln's Inn, my collection of gold
and silver snuff-boxes, and Roman intaglios.

All the rest of my estate, real and personal, to
be vested in trustees, of whom the above-mentioned
James Bryanstone shall be one, and the Rev.
John Carlyon, of Trevena, Cornwall, the other,
for the sole use and benefit of Leonard George
Tregonell, now an infant, who shall, with his
father and mother's consent, assume the name of
Harleigh after that of Tregonell upon coming
of age, and I hope that his father and mother

will accept this legacy for their son in the spirit
of pure friendship for them and attachment to the
boy by which it is dictated, and that they will
suffer their son so to perpetuate the name of one
who will die childless

There was an awful silence  perfect collapse on
the part of the cousins, the one kinsman selected
for benefaction being now with his ship in the
Mediterranean.

And then Leonard Tregonell rose from his seat
by the fire, and came close up to the table at
which Mr. Bryanstone was sitting.

'' Am I at liberty to reject that legacy on my
sons partes"' he asked.

Certainly not. The money is left in trust.
Your son can do what he likes when he comes of
age. But why should you wish to decline such a
legacy  left in such friendly terms? Mr. Harleigh
was your friends

He was my mother's friend  for me only a
recent acquaintance. It seems to me that there is
a sort of indirect insult in such a bequest, as if I
were unable to provide for my boy  as if I were

likely to run through every things and make him
a pauper before he comes of ages

 Believe me there is no such implication'' said the
lawyer, smiling blandly at the look of trouble and
anger in the other manes face. " Did you never hear
before of money being left to a man who already
has plenty ? That is the general bent of all legacies.
In this world it is the poor who are sent empty
away' murmured Mr. Bryanstone, with a sly glance
under his spectacles at the seven blank faces of the
seven cousins. ' I consider that Mr. Harleigh 
who was my very dear friend  has paid you the
highest compliment in his power, and that you have
every reason to honour his memory's

'rand legally I have no power to refuse his
property T'

Certainly not. The estate is not left to you 
you have no power to touch a sixpence of it.'

And the will is dated ?"

Just three weeks ago.

Within the first week of this visit here. He
must have taken an inordinate fancy to my boy."

Mr. Bryanstone smiled to himself softly with

lowered eyelids as he folded up the will  a
holograph will upon a single sheet of Bath post 
witnessed by two of the Mount Royal servants.
The family solicitor knew all about Angus Ham-heights
engagement to Miss Courtenay  had even
received instructions for drawing the marriage
settlement  but he was too much a man of the
world to refer to that fact.

Was not Mr. Harleigh's father engaged to
your mother ?'' he asked.

'' Yes''

'then don't you think that respect for your
mother may have had some influence with Mr.
Harleigh when he made your son his heir ?'

' I am not going to speculate about his motives.
I only wish he had left his money to an asylum
for idiots  or to his cousins''  with a glance at the
somewhat vacuous countenances of the dead manes
kindred, " or that I were at liberty to decline his
gift  which I should do, flatly.'

This sounds as if you were prejudiced against
my lamented friend. I thought you liked him."

'' So I did' stammered Leonard, '' but not well

enough to give him the right to patronise me with
his d  d legacy'

Mr. Tregonell/' said the lawyer, frowning, " T
have to remind you that my late client has left
you, individually, nothing  and I must add, that
your language and manner are most unbefitting
this melancholy occasion. 

Leonard grumbled an inaudible reply, and walked
back to the fire-place. The whole of this conversation
had been carried on in undertones  so that
the cousins who had gathered in a group upon
the hearth-rug, and who were for the most part
absorbed in pensive reflections upon the futility
of earthly hopes, heard very little of it. They
belonged to that species of well-dressed nonentities,
more or less impecunious, which sometimes constitute
the outer fringe upon a good old family. To
each of them it seemed a hard thing that Angus
Harleigh had not remembered him individually,
choosing him out of the ruck of cousinship as a meet
object for bounty.

He ought to have left me an odd thousands'
murmured a beardless subaltern; "he knew how

badly I wanted it for I borrowed a pony of him
the last time he asked me to breakfast ; and a man
of good family must be very hard up when he
comes to borrowing ponies

"I dare say you would have not demurred to
making it a monkey, if Mr. Harleigh had proposed
it/ said his interlocutor.

Of course not : and if he had been generous
he would have given me something handsome,
instead of being so confoundedly literal as to write
his cheque for exactly the amount I asked for.
A man of his means and age ought to have had
more feeling for a young fellow in his first season.
And now I am out of pocket for my expenses to
this infernal hole"'

Thus, and with other failings of an approximate
character, did Angus HamleigVs kindred make their
lamentation : and then they all began to arrange
among themselves for getting away as early as
possible next morning  and for travelling together,
with a distant idea of a little " Nap'" to beguile
the weariness of the way between Plymouth and
Haddington. There was room enough for them all

Mount Royal was clear of them all by eleven
o'clock next morning. Mr. Montagu went away
with them, and only Captain Vandeleur remained
to bear Leonard company in a house which now
seemed given over to gloom. Christabel kept her
room, with Jessie Bridgeman in constant attendance
upon her. She had not seen her husband since

her return from the Sieve, and Jessie had told
him in a few resolute words that it would not be
well for them to meet.

'' She is very ills said Jessie, standing on the
threshold of the room, while Leonard remained in the
corridor outside. " Dr. Hale has seen her, and he
says she must have perfect quiet  no one is to worry
her  no one is to talk to her  the shock she has
suffered in this dreadful business has shattered her
nerves.''''

Why canst you say in plain words that she is
grieving for the only man she ever loved asked
Leonard.

' I am not going to say that which is not true ;
and which you, better than any one else, know is
not true. It is not Angus Hamleighs death, but
the manner of his death, which she feels. Take
that to your heart, Mr. Tregonell."

'' You are a viper \" said Leonard,  and you
always were a viper. Tell my wife  when she is
well enough to hear reason  that I am not going
to be sat upon by her, or her toady ; and that as
she is going to spend her winter dissolved in tears

for Mr. Hamleighs deaths I shall spend mine in
South America, with Jack Vandeleur/

Three days later his arrangements were all made
for leaving Cornwall, Captain Vandeleur was very
glad to go with him , upon what he, Jack, pleasantly
called  reciprocal terms Mr. Tregonell paying all
expenses as a set-off against his friends cheerful
society. There was no false pride about Poker
Vandeleur ; no narrow-minded dislike to being paid
for. He was so thoroughly assured as to the
perfect equitableness of the transaction.

On the morning he left Mount Royal, Mr. Tree
went into the nursery to bid his son goodbye.
He contrived, by some mild artifice, to send
the nurse on an errand ; and while she was away,
strained the child to his breast, and hugged and
kissed him with a rough fervour which he had never
before shown. The boy quavered a little, and his lip
drooped under that rough caress  and then the
clear blue eyes looked up and saw that this vehemence
meant love, and the chubby arms clung closely
round the father's neck.

Poor little beggar V muttered Leonard, his eyes

clouded with tears. "I wonder whether I shall
ever see him again. He might die  or I  there is
no telling. Hard lines to leave him for six months
on end  buts with a suppressed shudder  ' I
should go mad if I stayed here."

The nurse came back,, and Leonard put the child
on his rocking-horse, which he had left reluctantly
at the father's entrance, and left the nursery without
another word. In the corridor he lingered for
some minutes  now staring absently at the family
portraits  now looking at the door of his wife's
room. He had been occupying a bachelor room at
the other end of the house since her illness.

Should he force an entrance to that closed
chamber  defy Jessie Bridgeman, and take leave of

his wife ? the wife whom after the bent of his own

nature, he had passionately loved. What could he
say to her? Very little, in his present mood.
What would she say to him ? There was the rub.
From that pale face  from those uplifted eyes 
almost as innocent as the eyes that had looked at
him just now  he shrank in absolute fear.

At the last moment, after he had put on his

overcoat,, and when the dogcart stood waiting for
him at the door, he sat down and scribbled a few
hasty lines of farewell.

I am told you are too ill to see me, but cannot
go without one word of good-bye. If I thought
you cared a rap for me, I should stay ; but I believe
you have set yourself against me because of this
man's death, and that you will get well all the
sooner for my being far away. Perhaps six months
hence, when I come back again  if I don't get
killed out yonder, which is always on the cards 
you may have learnt to feel more kindly towards me.
God knows I have loved you as well as ever man
loved woman  too well for my own happiness.
Good-bye. Take care of the boy; and don't let
that little viper, Jessie Bridgeman, poison your
mind against me."

' Leonard ! are you coming to-day or tomorrow
?'"' cried Jack Vandeleur's stentorian voice
from the hall. " We shall lose the train at Launceston,
if you don't look sharp."

Thus summoned, Leonard thrust his letter into an
envelope, directed it to his wife, and gave it to

Daniel, who was hovering about to do due honour
to his master's departure  the master for whose
infantine sports he had made his middle-aged back
as the back of a horse, and perambulated the
passages on all-fours, twenty years ago  the master
who seemed but too likely to bring his grey hairs
with sorrow to the grave, judging by the pace at
which he now appeared to be travelling along the
road to ruin.

CHAPTER V.

spain FOR THY GIRDLE, AND SORROW UPON THY Heads

Now came a period of gloom and solitude at
Mount Royal. Mrs. Tregonell lived secluded in her
own rooms, rarely leaving them save to visit lier boy
in his nursery, or to go for long lonely rambles
with Miss Bridgeman. The lower part of the house
was given over to silence and emptiness. It was
winter, and the roads were not inviting for visitors ;
so, after a few calls had been made by neighbours
who lived within ten miles or so, and those callers
had been politely informed by Daniel that his
mistress was confined to her room by a severe
cough, and was not well enough to see any one, no
more carriages drove up the long avenue, and the
lodge-keepers place became a sinecure, save for
opening the gate in the morning, and shutting it
at dusk.

Mrs. Tregonell neither rode nor drove, and the

VOL. III. G

horses were only taken out of their stables to be
exercised by grooms and underlings. The servants
fell into the way of living their own lives , almost as
if they had been on board wages in the absence of
the family. The good old doctor,, who had attended
Christabel in all her childish illnesses, came twice
a week, and stayed an hour or so in the
morning-room "upstairs, closeted with his patient
and her companion, and then looked at little Leo in
his nursery, that young creature growing and
thriving exceedingly amidst the gloom and silence
of the house, and awakening the echoes occasionally
with bursts of baby mirth.

None of the servants knew exactly what was
amiss with Mrs. Tregonell. Jessie guarded and
fenced her in with such jealous care, hardly letting
any other member of the household spend five
minutes in her company. They only knew that she
was very white, very sad-looking; that it was with
the utmost difficulty she was persuaded to take
sufficient nourishment to sustain life ; and that her
only recreation consisted in those long walks with
Jessie  walks which they took in all weathers, and

sometimes at the strangest hours. The people
about Boscastle grew accustomed to the sight of
those two solitary women, clad in dark cloth ulsters,
with close-fitting felt hats, that defied wind and
weather, armed with sturdy umbrellas, tramping
.over fields and commons, by hilly paths, through
'the winding valley where the stream ran loud and
deep after the autumn rains, on the cliffs above the
.wild grey sea  always avoiding as much as possible
;all beaten tracks, and the haunts of mankind.
Those who did meet the two reported that there
was something strange in the looks and ways of
both. They did not talk to each other as most
ladies talked, to beguile the way : they marched on
in silence  the younger, fairer face pale as death
and inexpressibly sad, and with a look as of one
who walks in her sleep, with wide-open, unseeing
.eyes.

 She looks just like a person who might Avalk
.over the cliff, if there was no one by to take care of
.her"" said Mrs. Penny, the butchers wife, who had
met them one day on her way home from Camelford
market; 'but Miss Bridgeman, she do take such

care and she do watch every step of young mrs.
Tregoneirs"  Christabel was always spoken of as
young Mrs.Tregonell by those people who had known
her aunt. " Tm afraid the poor dear lady has gone
a little wrong in her head since Mr. Harleigh
shot himself ; and there are some as do think he shot
himself for her sake, never having got over her
marrying our Squire''

On many a winter evenings when the sea ran high
and wild at the foot of the rocky promontory and
overhead a wilder sky seemed like another tempestuous
sea inverted;, those two women paced the
grass-grown hill at Tintagel above the nameless
graves among the ruins of prehistoric splendour.
They were not always silent,, as they walked
slowly to and fro among the rank grass, or stood
looking at those wild waves which came rolling in
like solid walls of shining black water to burst
into ruin with a thunderous roar against the everlasting
rocks. They talked long and earnestly in
this solitude, and in other solitary spots along that
wild and varied coast ; but none but themselves
ever knew what they talked about, or what was the

-delight and relief which they found in the dark
grandeur of that winter sky and sea. And so the
months crept by, in a dreary monotony, and it was
spring once more ; all the orchards fall of bloom 
those lovely little orchards of Alpine Boscastle, here
nestling in the deep gorge, there hanging on the
edge of the hill. The gardens were golden with
daffodils, tulips, narcissus, jonquil  that rich variety
of yellow blossoms which come in early spring, like
a floral sunrise  and the waves ran gently into the
narrow inlet between the tall cliff's. But those two
lonely women were no longer seen roaming over the
hills, or sitting down to rest in some sheltered corner
of Pentargon Bay. They had gone to Switzerland,
taking the nurse and baby with them, and were not
expected to return to Mount Royal till the autumn.
Mr. TregonelFs South American wanderings had
lasted longer than he had originally contemplated.
His latest letters  brief scrawls, written at rough
resting-places  announced a considerable extension
of his travels. He and his friend were following in
the footsteps of Mr. Whimper, on the Equatorial
Andes, the backbone of South America. Dopsy

and Mopsy "were moping in the dusty South Belgravian
lodging-house, nursing their invalid father,
squabbling with their landlady, cutting, contriving,
straining every nerve to make sixpences go as far
as shillings, and only getting outside glimpses of
the world of pleasure and gaiety, art and fashion,.
in their weary trappings up and down the dusty
pathways of Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens.

They had written three or four times to Mrs
Tregonell, letters running over with affection, fondly
hoping for an invitation to Mount Royal ; but the
answers had been in Jessie Bridgemans hand, and
the last had come from Zurich, which seemed altogether
hopeless. They had sent Christmas cards
and New Yearns cards, and had made every effort,
compatible with their limited means, to maintain
the links of friendship.

 I wish we could afford to send her a New'
Yearns gift, or a toy for that baby,'' said Mopsy, who
was not fond of infants. " But what could we send
her that she would care for, when she has everything
in this world that is worth having. And we
could not get a toy, which that pampered child

would think worth looking at under a sovereigns
concluded Mop, with a profound sigh.

And so the year wore on, dry and dreary and
dusty for the two girls , whose only friends were the
chosen few whom their brother made known to them
friends who naturally dropped out of their horizon
in Captain Vandeleur's absence.

What a miserable summer it has beene said
Dopsy, yawning and stretching in her tawdry morning
gown  one of last yearns high-art tea gowns 
and surveying with despondent eye the barren
breakfast-tables where two London eggs and the
remains of yesterday's loaf flanked by a nearly empty
marmalade pot , comprised all the temptations of the
flesh. " What a wretched summer  hot , and sultry,
and thundery, and dusty  the cholera raging in
Chelsea, and measles only divided from us by Lambeth
Bridge ! And we have not been to a single theatres''
'' Or tasted a single French dinners''
Or been given a single pair of gloves
"Hark!" cried Mopsy, "it's the postman,'''' and
she lushed into the passage, too eager to await the
maid-of-all-work''s slipshod foot.

What's the good of exciting oneself?" murmured
Dopsy, with another stretch of long thin arms above
a townley head. " Of course it's only a bill or a
lawyer's letter for pa."

Happily it was neither of these unpleasantness
which the morning messenger had brought but a large
vellum envelope with the address, Mount Royale in
old English letters above the small neat seal : and
the hand which had directed the envelope was
Christabel TregonelFs.

At last she has condescended to write to me
with her own hand' said Dopsy, to whom, as Miss
Vandeleur, the letter was addressed. * But I daresay
it's only a humbugging note. I know she didn't
really like us : we are not her style."

' How should we be ?" exclaimed Mopsy. whom
the languid influences of a sultry August had made
ill-humoured and cynical. " She was not brought
up in the gutter."

' Mopsy ," cried her sister,, with a gasp of surprise
and delight, "it's an invitation !"

What ?"

Listen 

'  Dear Miss Vandeleur, 

 *" We Lave just received a telegram from
Buenos Ayres. Mr. Tregonell and Captain Van-leur
leave that port for Plymouth this afternoon,
and will come straight from Plymouth here.
I think you would both wish to meet your brother
on his arrival ; and I know Mr. Tregonell is likely
to want to keep him here for some time. Will you,
therefore, come to us early next week, so as to be
here to welcome the travellers ?

a i Yej;.y sincerely yours,

 ' Christabel Tregonell/ ''

 This is too delicious'' exclaimed Dopsy. ''' But
however are we to find the money for the journey ?
And our clothes  what a lot we shall have to do
to our clothes. If we only had credit at a good
drapers. "

Suppose we were to try our landlady's plan, for
once in a way"* suggested Mopsy, faintly, " and get
a few things from that man near Drury Lane who
takes weekly instalments''

What, the Talisman ?'' screamed Dopsy. " No,
1 would rather be dressed like a South Sea Islander.

It's not only the utter lowness of the thing ; but
the manes goods are never like anybody else's. The
colours and materials seem invented on purpose for
him/

That might pass for high art."

-' Well they're ugly enough even for that ; but
its not the right kind of ugliness'

After all/ answered Mopsy, " we have no more
chance of paying weekly than we have of paying
monthly or quarterly. Nothing under three years
credit would be any use to us. Something might
happen  Fortune's wheel might turn in three years.'

Whenever it does turn it will be the wrong way,
and we shall be under it' said Dopsy still given
over to gloom.

It was very delightful to be invited to a fine old
country house ; but it was bitter to know that one-must
go there but half provided with those things
which civilization have made a necessity.

How happy those South Sea Islanders must be''
sighed Mopsy, pensively meditating upon the difference
between wearing nothing, and having nothing
to wear.

CHAPTER YI.

I WILL HAVE NO MERCY ON HIM."

The Buenos Ayres steamer was within sight o
land  English land. Those shining lights yonder
were the twin . lanterns of the Lizard. Leonard
and his friend paced the bridge smoking their
cigars, and looking towards that double star which
shone out as one light in the distance, and thinking
that they were going back to civilization  conventional
habits  a world which must seem cramped
and narrow  not much better than the squirrel's
cage seems to the squirrel  after the vast width
and margin of that wilder, freer rorld they had
just left  where men and women were not much
more civilized than the unbroken horses that
were brought out struggling, and roped in among
a team of older stagers, to be dragged along anyhow
for the first mile or so, rebellious, and wondering,

and to fall in with the necessities of the
case somehow before the stage was done.

There was no thrill of patriotic rapture in the breast
of either traveller as he watched yonder well-known
light brightening on the dark horizon. Leonard had
left his country too often to feel any deep emotion
at returning to it. He had none of those strong
feelings which mark a man as the sou of the soil,
and make it seem to him that he belongs to one
spot of earth, and can neither live nor die happily
anywhere else. The entire globe was his country,
a, world created for him to roam about in, climbing
all its hills, shooting in all its forests, fishing in all
its rivers, exhausting all the sport and amusement
that was to be had out of it  and with no anchor to
chain him down to any given spot. Yet, though
he had none of the deep feeling of the exile returning
to the country of his birth, he was not without
emotion as he saw the Lizard light broadening and
yellowing under the pale beams of a young moon.
He was thinking of his wife  the wife whose
face he had not seen since that gloomy morning at
Mount Royal, when she sat pale and calm in her

place at the head of his table  maintaining her
dignity as the mistress of his house albeit he knew
her heart was breaking. From the hour of her return
from the Sieve, they had been parted. She had
kept her room, guarded by Jessie ; and he had been
told, significantly, that it was not well they should
meet.

How would she receive him now ? What were
her thoughts and feelings about that dead man?
The man whom she had loved anil he had hated :
not only because his wife loved him  though that
reason was strong enough for hatred  but because
the man was in every attribute so much his own
superior. Never had Leonard Tregonell felt such
keen anxiety as he felt now, when he speculated
upon his wife's greeting  when he tried to imagine
how they two would feel and act standing face to
face after nearly a year of severance.

The correspondence between them had been of
the slightest. For the first six months his only
home-letters had been from Miss Bridgeman  curt,
]business-like communications  telling him of his
boys health and general progress, and of any

details about the estate which it was his place to
be told. Of Christabel she wrote as briefly as possible.
Mrs. Tregonell is a little better." " Mrs. Tregonell
is gradually regaining strengths' " The doctor considers
Mrs. Tregonell much improved and so on.

Later there had been letters from Christabel
letters written in Switzerland  in which the
writer confined herself almost entirely to news of
the boy's growth and improvement, and to the particulars
of their movements from one place to
another  letters which gave not the faintest indication
of the writer's frame of mind : as devoid of
sentiment as an official communication from one
legation to another.

He was going back to Mount Royal therefore in
profound ignorance of his wife's feelings  whether
he would be received with smiles or frowns, with
tears or sullen gloom. Albeit not of a sensitive
nature, this uncertainty made him uncomfortable
and he looked at yonder faint grey shore  the peaks
:and pinnacles of that wild western coast  without
any of those blissful emotions which the returning
wanderer always experiences  in poetry.

Plymouth,, however, where they went ashore
next morning, seemed a very enjoyable place after
the cities of South America. It was not so picturesque
a town;, nor had it that rowdy air and
dissipated flavour which Mr. Tregonell appreciated
in the cities of the South; but it had a teeming
life and perpetual movement, which were unknown
on the shores of the Pacific : the press and hurry
of many industries  the steady fervour of a town
where wealth is made by honest labour   the intensity
of a place which is in sometime the cradle
of naval warfare. Mr. Tregonell breakfasted and
lunched at the Duke of Cornwall, strolled on the
Hoe, played two or three games on the first English
billiard-table he had seen for a year, and found a
novel delight in winners and losers.

An afternoon train took the travellers on to
Launceston, where the Mount Koyal wagonette,
and a cart for the luggage, were waiting for them
at the station.

Everything right at the jNIount V asked
Leonard, as Nicholls touched his hat.

Yes, Sir'

He asked for no details, but took the reins from
Nicholls without another word. Captain Vandeleur
jumped up by his side, Nicholls got in at the back,
with a lot of the smaller luggage  gun-cases,
dressing-bags, despatch-boxes  and away they went
up the castle hill, and then sharp round to the
right, and off at a dashing pace along the road to
the moor. It was a two hours drive even for the
best goers ; but Mr. Tregonell spoke hardly a dozen
times during the journey, smoking all the way, and
with his eyes always on his horses.

At last they wound up the hill to Mount Royal,,
and passed the lodge, and sav all the lights of the
old wide-spreading Tudor front shining upon them
through the thickening grey of early evening.

''A good old place, isn't it?" said Leonard, justa
little moved at sight of the house in which he had
been born. " A man might come home to a worse
shelter."

' This man might come home to lodgings in
Chelsea," said Jack Vandeleur, touching himself
lightly on the breast, with a grim laugh. " It's a
glorious old place, and you needn't apologize for

being proud of it. And now we've come back, I
hope you are going to be jolly, for you've been
uncommonly glum while were been away. The
house looks cheerful, doesn't it ? I should think it
must be full of company."

 Not likely,' answered Leonard. " Christabel
never cared about having people. We should have
lived like hermits if she had had her way.'

Then if the house isn't full of people, all I can
say is there's a good deal of candle-light going to
waste," said Captain, Vandeleur.

They were driving up to the porch by this time ;
the door stood wide open ; servants were on the
watch for them. The hall was all aglow with light
and fire ; people were moving about near the hearth.
It was a relief to Leonard to see this life and brightness.
He had feared to find a dark and silent
house  a melancholy welcome  all things still in
mourning for the untimely dead.

A ripple of laughter floated from the hall as
Leonard drew up his horses, and two tall slim
figures with fluffy heads, short-waisted gowns, and big
sashes, came skipping down the broad shallow steps.

VOL. III. H

Leonard's only salutation to the damsels was a
friendly nod. He brushed by them as they grouped
themselves about their brother  like a new edition
of Laocoon without the snakes, or the three Graces
without the grace  and hurried into the hall, eager
to be face to face with his wife. She came forward
to meet him, looking her loveliest, dressed as he had
never seen her dressed before, with a style, a chic, and
a daring more appropriate to the Theatre rran9ais
than to a Cornish squire's house. She who, even in
the height of the London season, had been simplicity
itself, recalling to those who most admired her, the
picture of that chaste and unworldly maiden who
dwelt beside the Dove, now wore an elaborate costume
of brown velvet and satin, in which a Louis Quinze
velvet coat, with large cut-steel buttons and
Mechlin jabot j was the most striking feature. Her
fair, soft hair was now fluffy, and stood up in an
infinity of frizzy curls from the broad white forehead.
Diamond solitaires flashed in her ears, her

hands glittered with the rainbow light of old family
rings, which in days gone by she had been wont to
leave in the repose of an iron safe. The whole
woman was changed. She came to meet her
husband with a Society smile ; shook hands with
him as i he had been a commonplace visitor  he
was too startled to note the death-like coldness of
that slender hand  and welcomed him with a conventional
inquiry about his passage from Buenos
Ayres.

He stood transfixed  overwhelmed by surprise.
The room was full of people. There was Mrs.
Fairfax Warrington liveliest and most essentially
modern of well-preserved widows , always dans le
mouvement, as she said of herself ; and there, lolling
against the high oak chimney-piece, with an air of
fatuous delight in his own attractiveness, was that
Baron de Cazalet  pseudo artist, poet, and litterateur,
who, five seasons ago, had been an object of
undisguised detestation with Christabel. He, too, was
essentially in the movement  aesthetic, cynical, agnostic,
thought-reading, spiritualistic  always blowing
the last fashionable bubble, and making his bubbles

H 2

bigger and brighter than other people's  a man who
prided himself upon his "intensity in every pursuit
from love-making to gourmandize. There, again,
marked out from the rest by a thoroughly prosaic
air, which, in these days of artistic sensationalism is
in itself a distinction  pale, placid, taking his ease
in a low basket chair, with his languid hand on
Dandies black muzzle  sat Mr. FitzJesse, the
journalist, proprietor and editor of The Sling, a
fashionable weekly the man who was always smiting
the Goliath of pretence and dishonesty with a pen
that was sharper than any stone that ever David slung
against the foe. He was such an amiable-looking
man  had such a power of obliterating every token
of intellectual force and fire from the calm surface
of his countenance, that people, seeing him for the
first time, were apt to stare at him in blank wonder
at his innocent aspect. Was this the wielder of
that scathing pen  was this the man who wrote
not with ink but with aqua fortis ? Even his placid
matter-of-fact speech was, at first, a little disappointing.
It was only by gentlest degrees that
the iron hand of satire made itself felt under the

There were other guests grouped about the fireplace
 little Monty, the useful and good-humoured
country-house hack ; Colonel Blathwayt, of the
Kildare Cavalry, a noted amateur actor, recite,
waltzer, spirit rapper, invaluable in a house full of
people  a tall, slim-waisted man, who rode nine
stone, and at forty contrived to look seven-and-twenty
; the Rev. St. Bernard Faddie, an Anglican
curate, who carried Ritualism to the extremest
limit consistent with the retention of his stipend asa
minister of the Church of England, and who was
always at loggerheads with some of his parishioners.
There were Mr. and Mrs. St. Aubyn and their two

' And you had a nice passages"* said his wife,
smiling at her lord. " Will you have some tea ?"

It seemed a curious kind of welcome to a husband
after a year's absence ; but Leonard answered feebly
that he would take a cup of tea. One of the numerous
tea-tables had been established in a corner
near the fire, and Miss Bridgeman, in neat grey
silk and linen collar, as of old, was officiating, with
Mr. Faddie in attendance, to distribute the cups.

' No tea, thanks," said Jack Vandeleur, coming
in with his sisters still entwined about him, still
faintly suggestive of that poor man and the sea-serpents.
" Would it be too dreadful if I were ta
suggest S. & B. ?"

Jessie Bridgeman touched a spring bell on the
tea-table, and gave the required order. There was
a joviality, a laissez-aller in the air of the place,

with which soda and brandy seemed quite in
harmony. Everything in the house seemed changed
to Leonardoss eye ; and yet the furniture, the armour,
the family portraits brown and indistinguishable
in this doubtful light, were all the same. There
were no flowers about in tubs or on tables. That
subtle grace  as of a thoughtful woman's hand
ruling and arranging everything, artistic even where
seeming most careless  was missing. Papers, books
were thrown anyhow upon the tables ; whips,
carriage-rugs, wraps, hats, encumbered the chairs
near the door. Half-a-dozen dogs  pointers, setters,
collie  sprawled or prowled about the room. In
nowise did his house now resemble the orderly
mansion which his mother had ruled so long, and
which his wife had maintained upon exactly the
same lines after her aunts death. He had grumbled
at what he called a silly observance of his mother's
fads. The air of the house was now much more in
accordance with his own view of life, and yet the
change angered as much as it perplexed him.

Whereas the boy ?" he asked, exploring the hall
and its occupants, with a blank stare.

"In his nursery. Where should he be?''' exclaimed
Christabel, lightly.

"I thought he would have been with you. I
thought he might have been here to bid me welcome
home."

He had made a picture in his mind almost involuntarily,
of the mother and child  she, calm and lovely
as one of Murillo's Madonnas, with the little one on
her knee. There was no vein of poetry in his
nature, yet unconsciously the memory of such
pictures had associated itself with his wife's image.
And instead of that holy embodiment of maternal
love, there flashed and sparkled before him this
brilliant woman, with fair fluffy hair, and Louis
Quinze coat, all a glitter with cut-steel.

* Home \" echoed Christabel, mockingly ; ' how
sentimental you have grown. Fve no doubt the
boy will be charmed to see you, especially if you
have brought him some South American toys ; but
1 thought it would bore you to see him before you
had dined. He shall be on view in the drawing-room
before dinner, if you would really like to see him so

He went upstairs without another word, leaving
his friend Jack seated in the midst of the cheerful
circle, drinking soda water and brandy, and talking
of their adventures upon the backbone of South
America.

Delicious country V said de Cazalet, who
talked remarkably good English, with just the
faintest Hibernian accent. " I have ridden over
every inch of it. Ah, Mrs. Tregonell, that is
the soil for poetry and adventure; a land
of extinct volcanoes. If Byron had known the
shores of the Amazon, he would have struck a
deeper note of passion than any that was ever
inspired by the Dardanelles or the Bosphorus.
Sad that so grand a spirit should have pined in the
prison-house of a worn-out world''

I have always understood that Byron got some
rather strong poetry out of Switzerland and Italy,"
murmured Mr. FitzJesse, meekly.

Weak and thin to what he might have written
had he known the Pampas," said the Baron.

You have done the Pampas ?" said Mr. Fits


I have lived amongst wild horses, and wilder
humanity, for months at a stretches

'rand you have published a volume of 
verses V

Another of my youthful follies. But I do not
place myself upon a level with Byron. '

I should if I were you' said Mr. Fitz Jesse.
' It would be an original idea  and in an age
marked by a total exhaustion of brain-power, an
original idea is a pearl of prices

"What kind of dogs did you see in your
travels?" asked Emily St. Aubyn, a well-grown upstanding
young woman, in a severe tailor-gown of
undyed homespun.

Two or three very fine breeds of mongrels.''

'* I adore mongrels V exclaimed Mopsy. ' I
think that kind of dog which belongs to no particular
breed, which has been ill-used by London boys,
and which follows one to one's doorstep, is the most
faithful and intelligent of the whole canine race.
Huxley may exalt Blenheim spaniels as the nearest

'' The Blenheim is greedy, luxurious, and lazy,
and generally dies in middle life from the consequences
of over-feelings drawled Mr. FitzJesse.
'' I don't think Huxley is very far outs

I would back a Cornish sheep-dog against any
animal in creations' said Christabel, patting Ran die,
who was standing amiably on end, with his fore-paws
on the cushioned elbow of her chair. " Do you know
that these dogs smile when they are pleased, and
cry when they are grieved  and they will mourn
for a master with a fidelity unknown in humanities

"Which as a rule does not mourns said Fits
" It only goes into morning's

And so the talk went on, always running upon
trivialities  glancing from theme to theme  a mere
battledore and shuttle-cock conversation  making
a mock of most things and most people. Christabel
joined in it all ; and some of the bitterest speech
that was spoken in that hour before the sounding
of the seven o'clock gong, fell from her perfect lips.

Did you ever see such a change in any one as
in Mrs. Tregonell T' asked Dopsy of Mopsy, as they
elbowed each other before the looking-glass, the
first armed with a powder puff, the second with a
little box containing the implements required for
the production of piquant eyebrows.

'A wonderful improvements answered Mopsy.
She's ever so much easier to get on with. I
didn't think it was in her to be so thoroughly chic. "

Do you know, I really liked her better last
year, when she was frumpy and dowdy / faltered
Dopsy. " I wasn't able to get on with her, but I
couldn't help looking up to her, and feeling that,
after all, she was the right kind of woman. And

And now she condescends to be human  to be
one of us  and the consequence is that her house
is three times as nice as it was last years"* said
Mopsy, turning the corner of an eyebrow with a
bold but careful hand, and sending a sharp elbow
into Dopsys face during the operation.

' I wish you be a little more carefully ejaculated
Dopsy.

'' How do you like the French Baron ?" asked
Dopsy, when a brief silence had restored her
equanimity.

French, indeed ! He is no more French than I
am. Mr. Fitz Jesse told me that he was born and
brought up in Jersey  that his father was an
Irish Major on half-pays and his mother a circus
riders

But how does he come by his title  if it is a
real title ?'

' Fitz Jesse says the title is right enough. One
of his father's ancestors came to the South of Ireland
after the revocation of something  a treaty
at Nancy  I think he said. He belonged to an
old Huguenot family  those people who were
massacred in the opera, don't you know  and the
title had been allowed to go dead  till this man
married a tremendously rich Sheffield cutler's
daughter, and bought the old estate in Provence,
and got himself enrolled in the French peerage.
Romantic, isn't it?"

Very. What became of the Sheffield cutler's
daughter ? ''

' She drank herself to death two years after her
marriage. FitzJesse says they both lived upon
brandy, but she hadn't been educated up to it ,
and it killed her."

' A curious kind of man for Mrs, Tregonell to
invite here. Not quite good style."

' Perhaps not  but he's very amusing."

Leonard spent half an hour with his son. The
child had escaped from babyhood in the year that
had gone. He was now a bright sentient creature,
eager to express his thoughts  to gather knowledge
 an active, vivacious being, full of health and
energy. Whatever duties Christabel had neglected
during her husband's absence, the boy had,
at least, suffered no neglect. Never had childhood
developed inter happier conditions. The
father could find no fault in the nursery, though
there was a vague feeling in his mind that everything
was wrong at Mount Royal.

'why the deuce did she fill the house with
people while I was away," he muttered to himself,

The fact that these rooms had been prepared for
him told him plainly enough that he and his wife
were henceforth to lead divided lives. The event
of last October, his year of absence, had built up a
wall between them which he, for the time being at
least, felt himself powerless to knock down.

' Can she suspect  can she knows  he asked himself,
pausing in his dressing to stand staring at the
fire, with moody brow and troubled eyes. " No,
that's hardly possible. And yet her whole manner
is changed. She holds me at a distance.
Every look, every tone just now was a defiance.
Of course I know that she loved that man  loved
him first  last  always ; never caring a straw forme.
She was too careful of herself  had been
brought up too well to go wrong, like other

women  but she loved him. I would never have
brought him inside these doors if I had not known
that she could take care of herself. I tested and
tried her to the uttermost  and  well  I took my
change out of him.'

Mr. Tregonell dressed himself a little more carefully
than he was wont to dress  thinking for the
most part that anything which suited him was good
enough for his friends  and went down to the
drawing-room, feeling like a visitor in a strange
house, half inclined to wonder how he would be received
by his wife and his wife's guests. He who had
always ruled supreme in that house, choosing his
visitors for his own pleasure  subjugating all tastes
and habits of other people to his own convenience,
now felt as if he were only there on sufferance.

It was early when he entered the drawing-room,
and the Baron de Cazalet was the only occupant
of' that apartment. He was standing in a lounging
attitude, with his back against the mantelpiece,
and his handsome person set off by evening dress.
That regulation costume does not afford much
scope to the latent love of finery which still lurks

in the civilized man, as if to prove his near relationship
to the bead and feather-wearing savage 
but de Cazalet had made himself as gorgeous as he
could with jewelled studs, embroidered shirt, satin
under-waistcoat, amber silk stockings, and Queen
Ann shoes. He was assuredly handsome  but he
had just that style of beauty which to the fastidious
mind is more revolting than positive ugliness.
Dark-brown eyes, strongly arched eyebrows, an
aquiline nose, a sensual mouth, a heavy jaw, a
faultless complexion of the French plum-box order,
large regular teeth of glittering whiteness, a small
delicately trained moustache with waxed ends, and
hair of oily sheen, odorous of pommade divine j made
up the catalogue of his charms. Leonard stood
looking at him doubtfully, as if he were a hitherto
unknown animal.

"Where did my wife pick him up, and why?'
he asked himself. ' I should have thought he was
just the kind of man she would detest. 

' How glad you must be to get back to your
Lares and Penates' said the Baron, smiling
blandly.

VOL. III. I

"rm uncommonly glad to get back to my
horses and dogs/ answered Leonard, flinging himself
into a large arm-chair by the fire and taking
up a newspaper. " Have you been long in the
West''

About a fortnight, but I have been only three
days at Mount Royal. I had the honour to renew
my acquaintance with Mrs. Tregonell last August at
Zermatt, and she was good enough to say that if I ever
found myself in this part of the country she would be
pleased to receive me in her house. I needn't tell
you that with such a temptation in view I was very
glad to bend my steps westward. I spent ten days
on board a friend's yacht, between Dartmouth and
the Lizard, landed at Penzance last Tuesday, and
posted here, where I received a more than hospitable
welcomes'

You are a great traveller, I understand ?"
' I doubt if I have done as much as you have
in that way. I have seldom travelled for the sake
of travelling. I have lived in the tents of the
Arabs. I have bivouacked on the Pampas  and
enjoyed life in all the cities of the South, from

Valparaiso to Cartagena ; but I cau boast no
mountaineering exploits or scientific discoveries 
and I never read a paper at the Geographically

look a little too fond of yourself for
mountaineering' said Leonard, smiling grimly at
the Barons portly figure, and all-pervading sleekness.


 Well  yes  I like a wild life  but I have no
relish for absolute hardship  the thermometer below-zero,
a doubtful supply of provisions, pemmican,
roasted skunk for supper, without any currant jelly
no, I love mine ease at mine Inn''

He threw out his fine expanse of padded chest
aud shoulders, and surveyed the spacious lauip-lit
room with an approving smile. This no doubt was
the kind of Inn at which he loved to take his
ease  a house full of silly women, ready to be subjugated
by his florid good looks and shallow accomplishments.


The ladies now came straggling in  first Emily
St. Aubyn, and then Dopsy, whose attempts at
conversation were coldly received by the county
maiden. Dopsy's and Mopsy's home-made gowns,

i2

cheap laces and frillirigs and easy flippancy were
not agreeable to the St. Anbyn sisters. It was
not that the St. Anbyn manners which always
savoured of the stable and farmyard, were more refined
or elegant ; but the St. Aubyns arrogated to
themselves the right to be vulgar, and resented free-and-easy
manners in two young persons who were
obviously poor and obviously obscure as to their
surroundings. If their gowns had been made by a
West End tailor, and they had been able to boast
of intimate acquaintance with a duchess and two
or three countesses, their flippancy might have
been tolerable, nay, even amusing, to the two Miss
St. Aubyns; but girls who went nowhere and knew
nobody, had no right to attempt smartness of speech,
and deserved to be sat upon.

To Dopsy succeeded Mopsy, then some men,
then Mrs. St. Aubyn and her younger daughter
Clara, then Mrs. Tregonell, in a red gown draped
with old Spanish lace, and with diamond stars in
her hair, a style curiously different from those quiet
dinner dresses she had been wont to wear a year
ago. Leonard looked at her in blank amazement 

just as he had looked at their first meeting. She,
who had been like the violet sheltering itself among
its leaves, now obviously dressed for effect, and as
obviously courted admiration.

The dinner was cheerful to riotousness. Everybody
had something to say; anecdotes were told, and
laughter was frequent and loud. The St. Aubyn girls,
who had deliberately snubbed the sisters Vandeleur,
were not above conversing with the brother, and, finding
him a kindred spirit in hoarseness and coyness,
took him at once into their confidence, and were on
the friendliest terms before dinner was finished. De
Cazalet sat next his hostess, and talked exclusively
to her. Mr. FitzJesse had Miss Bridgeman on his
left hand, and conversed with her in gentle murmurs,
save when in his quiet voice, and with his
seeming-innocent smile, he told some irresistibly
funny story  some touch of character seen with a
philosophic eye  for the general joy of the whole
table. Very different was the banquet of to-day
from that quiet dinner on the first night of mr.
HamlcigVs visit to Mount Royal, that dinner at
which Leonard watched his wife so intensely, eager

to discover to what degree she was affected by the
presence of her first lover. He watched her to-night,
at the head of her brilliantly lighted dinner-table 
no longer the old subdued light of low shaded lamps,
but the radiance of innumerable candles in lofty silver
candelabra, shining over a striking decoration of vivid
crimson asters andsjDreading palm-leaves  he watched
her helplessly, hopelessly, knowing that he and she
were ever so much farther apart than they had been
in the days before he brought Angus Harleigh to
Mount Royal, those miserable discontented days
when he had fretted himself into a fever of jealousy
and vague suspicion, and had thought to find a cure
by bringing the man he feared and hated into his
home, so that he might know for certain how deep
the wrong was which this manes very existence
seemed to inflict upon him. To bring those two
who had loved and parted face to face, to watch
and listen, to fathom the thoughts of each  that had
been the process natural and congenial to his jealous
temper; but the result had been an uncomfortable
one. And now he saw his wife, whose heart he had
tried to break  hating her because he had failed to

make her love him  just as remote and unapproachable
as of old.

What a fool I was to marry hers he thought,
after replying somewhat at random to Mrs. St.
Aubyns last remark upon the superiority of Dor-kings
to Spaniards from a culinary point of view.
*' It was my determination to have my own way
that wrecked me. I couldn't submit to be conquered
by a girl  to have the wife I had set my
heart upon when I was a boy, stolen from me by
the first effeminate fooling my silly mother invited
to Mount Royal. I had never imagined myself
with any other woman for my wife  never really
cared for any other woman's

was the bent of Mr. TregonelFs reflections
as he sat in his place at that animated assembly,
adding nothing to its mirth, or even to its noise ;
albeit in the past his voice had ever been loudest,
his laugh most resonant. He felt more at his
ease after dinner, when the women had left  the
brilliant de Cazalet slipping away soon after them,
although not until he had finished his host's La
Rose  and when Mr. St. Aubyn expanded himself

in county talk, enlightening the wanderer as to the
progress of events during his absence  while Mr.
FitzJesse sat blandly puffing his cigarette, a silent
observer of the speech and gestures of the county
magnate, speculating, from a scientific point of view,
as to how much of this talk were purely automatic
an inane drivel which would go on just the same
if half the Squire's brain had been scooped out.
Jack Vandeleur smoked and drank brandy and
water, while little Monty discoursed to him, in confidential
tones, upon the racing year which was now
expiring at Newmarket  the men who had made
pots of money, and the men who had been beggared
for life. There seemed to be no medium between
those extremes.

When the host rose. Captain Vandeleur was for
an immediate adjournment to billiards, but to his
surprise, Leonard walked off to the drawing-room.

Aren't you coming ?" asked Jack, dejectedly.

Not to-night. I have been too long away from
feminine society not to appreciate the novelty of
an evening with ladies. You and Monty can have
the table to yourselves, unless Mr. FitzJesse "

I never plays replied the gentle journalist ;
but I rather like sitting in a billiard-room and
listening to the conversation of the players. It is
always so full of ideas

Captain Vandeleur and Mr. Montagu went their
way and the other men repaired to the drawing-room,
whence came the sound of the piano, and the
music of a rich baritone, trolling out a popular air
from the most fashionable opera-bouffe  that one
piece which all Paris was bent upon hearing at the
same moment whereby seats in the little boulevard
theatre were selling at a ridiculous premium.

De Cazalet was singing to Mrs. TregonelFs
accompaniment  a patois song, with a refrain which
would have been distinctly indecent, if the tails
of all the words had not been clipped oJ6P, so as to
reduce the language to mild idiocy.

The kind of song one could fancy being
fashionable in the decline of the Roman Empires"*
said Fitz Jesse, "when Apuleius was writing his
Golden Asses don't you know''

After the song came a duet from " Traviata," in
which Christabel sang with a dramatic power which

Leonard never remembered to have heard from her
before. The two voices harmonized admirably and
there were warm expressions of delight from the
listeners.

Very accomplished man, de Cazalet/ said
Colonel Blathwayt ; ' uncommonly useful in a
country house  sings, and plays, and recites,
and acts  rather puffy and short-winded in
his elocution  if he were a horse one would call
him a roarer  but always ready to amuse. Unite
an acquisition."

'' Who is he V asked Leonard, looking glum.
' My wife picked him up in Switzerland, I hear
that is to say, he seems to have made himself
agreeable  or useful  to Mrs. Tregonell and Miss
Bridgeman; and, in a moment of ill-advised hospitality,
my wife asked him here. Is he received
anywhere ? Does anybody know anything about
him?"

'' He is received in a few houses  rich houses
where the hostess goes in for amateur acting and
tableaux vivants, don't you know; and people know
a good deal about him  nothing actually to his

detriment. The man was a full-blown adventurer
when he had the good luck to get hold of a rich
wife. He pays his way now, I believe ; but the air
of the adventurer hangs round him still. A man of
Irish parentage  brought up in Jersey. What can
you expect of him ?"

'' Does he drink V

'' Like a fish  but his capacity to drink is only
to be estimated by cubic space  the amount he can
hold. His brain and constitution have been educated
up to alcohol. Nothing can touch him further."

Colonel Blathwayt, we want you to give us the
Wonderful One-horse Shay and after that, the
Baron is going to recite  James Lees Wife said Mrs.
Tregonell, while her guests ranged themselves into
an irregular semicircle, and the useful Miss Bridgeman
placed a pine-dieu chair in a commanding
position for the reciter to lean upon gracefully, or
hug convulsively in the more energetic passages of
his recitation.

Everybody seems to have gone mad," thought
Mr. Tregonell, as he seated himself and surveyed
the assembly, all intent and expectant.

His wife sat near the piano-with de Cazalet
bending over her , talking in just that slightly
lowered voice which gives an idea of confidential
relation Sj yet may mean no more than a vain man's
desire to appear the accepted worshipper of a
beautiful woman. Never had Leonard seen Angus
Harleigh's manner so distinctively attentive as was
the air of this Hibernian adventurer.

Just the last man whose attentions I should
have supposed she would tolerate' thought Leonard;
but any garbage is food for a woman's vanity."

The " Wonderful One Horse Shay" was received
with laughter and delight. Dopsy and
Mopsy were in raptures. " How could a horrid
American have written anything so clever? But
then it was Colonel Blathwayt's inimitable elocution
which gave a charm to the whole thing. The
poem was poor enough, no doubt, if one read it to
oneself. Colonel Blathwayt was adorably fuimy."

It's a tremendous joke, as you do it," said
Mopsy, twirling her sunflower fan  a great yellow
flower, like the sign of the Sun Inn, on a black
satin ground. '' How delightful to be so gifted."

'' Now for  James Lees Wife ' said the
Colonel,, who accepted the damsel's compliments for
what they were worth. " You'll have to be very attentive
if you want to find out what the poem means ;
for the Baron's delivery is a trifle spasmodic

And now de Cazalet stepped forward with a
vellum-bound volume in his hand dashed back his
long sleek hair with a large white hand, glanced at
the page, coughed faintly, and then began in thick,
hurried accents, which kept getting thicker and
more hurried as the poem advanced. It was given,
not in lines, but in spasms, panted out, till at the
close the Baron sank exhausted, breathless, like the
hunted deer when the hounds close round him.

'beautiful! exquisite! too pathetic'' exclaimed
a chorus of feminine voices.

I only wish the Browning Society could hear
that : they would be delighted," said Mr. Faddie,
who piqued himself upon being in the literary
world.

' It makes Browning so much easier to understands'
remarked Mr. FitzJesse, with his habitual
placidity.

 Brings the whole thing home to you  makes
it ever so much more real, don't you know' said
Mrs. Torrington.

 Poor James Lee V sighed Mopsy.

"Poor Mrs. Lee!" ejaculated Dopsy.

Did he die ?" asked Miss St. Aubyn.

' Did she run away from him ?" inquired her
sister, the railroad pace at which the Baron fired
off the verses having left all those among his hearers
who did not know the text in a state of agreeable
uncertainty.

So the night wore on, with more songs and
duets from opera and opera-bouffe. No more of
Beethoven's grand bursts of melody  now touched
with the solemnity of religious feeling  now melting
in human pathos  now light and airy, changeful
and capricious as the skylark's song  a very
fountain of joyous fancies. Mr. Tregonell had
never appreciated Beethoven, being, indeed, as
unmusical a soul as God ever created; but he
thought it a more respectable thing that his wife
should sit at her piano playing an order of music
which only the privileged few could understand.

than that she should delight the common herd by
singing which savoured of music-hall and burlesque.

Is she not absolutely delicious ?'' said Mrs.
Torringtouj beating time with her fan. ' How
proud I should be of myself if I could sing like
that. How proud you must be of your wife  such
verve  such elan  so thoroughly in the spirit of
the thing. That is the only kind of singing anybody
really cares for now. One goes to the opera
to hear them scream through  Lohengrin''  or
 Tannhiiuser  and then one goes into society and
talks about Wagner  but it is music like this
one enjoys."*

'eyes, it's rather jolly' said Leonard staring
moodily at his wife in the act of singing a refrain
of Be-be-bCj which was supposed to represent the
bleating of an innocent lamb.

'rand the Baron's voice goes so admirably with
Mrs. Tregonell's."

Yes, his voice goes  admirably," said Leonard,
sorely tempted to blaspheme.

'weren't you charmed to find us all so gay and
bright here  nothing to suggest the sad break-up

you had last year. I felt so intensely sorry for
you all  yet I was selfish enough to be glad I had
left before it happened. Did they  don't think
me morbid for asking  did they bring him home
heres'

 Yes, they brought hin homes"*

And in which room did they put him ? One
always wants to know these things, though it can
do one no gopd.

In the Blue Room''

The second from the end of the corridor next
but one to mine ; that's rather awfully near. Do
you believe in spiritual influences ? Have you ever
had a revelation ? Good gracious ! is it really so
late ? Everybody seems to be goings"'

Let me get your candle' said Leonard,
eagerly, making a dash for the hall. And so
ended his first evening at home with that imbecile
refrain  Be-be-be, repeating itself in his ears.

CHAPTER VII.

' GAI DONC, LA Voyagers AU COUP DU Peering \"

When Mr. Tregonell came to the breakfast room
next morning lie found everybody alert with the stir
and expectation o an agreeable day. The Trevena
harriers were to meet for the first time this season
and everybody was full of that event. Christabel, Mrs.
Torrington , and the St, Aubyn girls were breakfasting
in their habits and hats : whips and gloves were lying
about on chairs and side-tables  everybody was talking,
and everybody seemed in a hurry. De Cazalet
looked gorgeous in olive corduroy and Newmarket
boots. Mr. St. Aubyn looked business-like in a well-worn
red coat and mahogany tops, while the other
men inclined to dark shooting jackets, buckskins, and
Napoleons. Mr. Fitz Jesse, in a morning suit that
savoured of the study rather than the hunting field,
contemplated these Nimrod with an amused smile ;
but the Reverend St. Bernard beheld them not

VOL. It. K

without pangs of envy. He, too, had been in
Arcadia ; he, top had followed the hounds in his
green Oxford days, before he joined that band of
young Anglicans who he doubted not would
by-and-by be as widely renowned as the heroes of
the Praetorian movement.

'' You are going to the meet ? inquired Leonard,
as his wife handed him his coffee.

Do you think I would take the trouble to put
on my habit in order to ride from here to
Trevena?'' exclaimed Christabel. "I am going
with the rest of them, of course. Emily St. Aubyn
will show me the way."

' But you have never hunted."

Because your dear mother was too nervous to
allow me. But I have ridden over every inch of
the ground. I know my horse, and my horse
knows me. You needn't be afraid."

Mrs. Tregonell is one of the finest horsewomen
I ever saw," said de Cazalet. ' It is a delight to
ride by her side. Are not you coming with us ?"
he asked.

'eyes, ril ride after you," said Leonard. "I

forgot all about the harriers. Nobody told me
they were to begin work this mornings

The horses were brought round to the porch,
the ladies put on their gloves, and adjusted themselves
in those skimpy lop-sided petticoats which
have replaced the flowing drapery of the dark ages
when a horsewoman legs and boots were in some-wise
a mystery to the outside world.

Leonard went out to look at the horses. A
strange horse would have interested him even on
his death bed, while one ray of consciousness yet
remained to recognize the degrees of equine
strength and quality. He overhauled the mare
which Major Bree had chosen for Christabel
a month ago  a magnificent three-quarter bred
hunter, full of power.

Do you think she can carry me T' asked
Christabel.

'* She could carry a house. Yes ; you ought to
be safe upon her. Is that big black brute the
Barons horse T'

'' I thought so  a coarse clumsy beast, all

k2

show' muttered Leonard; "like master, like
man'

He turned away to examine Colonel Blathwayt's
hunter, a good looking chestnut , and in that
moment the Baron had taken up his ground by
Christabel's mare, and was ready to lift her into the
saddle. She went up as lightly as a shuttlecock
from a battledore, scarcely touching the corduroy
shoulder  but Leonard felt angry with the Baron
for usurping a function which should have been
left for the husband.

Ls Betsy Baker in condition ?" he asked the
head groom, as the party rode away, de Cazalet on
Mrs. TregonelFs right hand.

Splendid, sir. She only wants work''

Get her ready as quick as you can. 111 take
it out of her."

Mr. Tregonell kept his word. Wherever de
Cazalet and Christabel rode that day, Christabel's
husband went with them. The Baron was a bold,
bad rider  reckless of himself, brutal to his horse.
Christabel rode superbly, and was superbly mounted.
Those hills which seemed murderous to the stranger,

were as nothing to her, who had galloped up and
down them on her Shetland pony, and had seldom
ridden over better ground from the time when
Major Bree first took her out with a leading rein.
The day was long, and there was plenty of fast
going  but these three were always in the front.
Yet even the husbands immediate neighbourhood
in no wise lessened the Barons marked attention to
the wife, and Leonard rode homeward at dusk sorely
troubled in spirit. What did it mean ? Could it be
that she, whose conduct last year had seemed without
reproach ; who had borne herself with matronly
dignity, with virginal purity towards the lover of
her girlhood  the refined and accomplished Angus
Harleigh  could it be that she had allowed herself
to be involved in a flirtation with such a tinsel
dandy as this de Cazalet ?

It would be sheer lunacy"* he said to himself.
'' Perhaps she is carrying on like this to annoy
me  punishing me for '

He rode home a little way behind those other
two, full of vexation and bewilderment. Nothing
had happened of which he could reasonably complain.

He could scarcely kick tins man out of
his house because he inclined his head at a certain
angle  because he dropped his voice to a lower
key when he spoke to Christabel. Yet his very
attitude in the saddle as he rode on ahead  his
hand on his horses flank his figure turned towards
Christabel  was a provocation.

Opera boufFe duets  recitations  acted charades
bouts rimes  all the catalogue of grown-up
playfulness  began again after dinner; but this
evening Leonard did not stay in the drawing-room.
He felt that he could not trust himself.
His disgust must needs explode into some rudeness
of speech if he remained to witness these
vagaries.

I like the society of barmaid and I can
tolerate the company of ladies'' he said to his
bosom friend, Jack ; " but a mixture of the two is
unendurable : so we'll have a good smoke and half-crown
pool shilling lives. 

This was as much as to say, that Leonard and his
other friends were about to render their half-crowns
and shillings as tribute to CaptainVandeleur's superior

play ; that gentleman having made pool his profession
since he left the army.

They played till midnight in an atmosphere which
grew thick with tobacco smoke before the night
was done. They played till Jack Vandeleur's
pockets were full of loose silver, and till the other
men had come to the conclusion that pool was a
slow game, with an element of childishness in it, at
the best  no real skill, only a mere mechanical
knack, acquired by incessant practice in fusty public
rooms, reeking with alcohol.

Show me a man who plays like that, and 111
show you a scamps muttered little Monty ina
friendly aside to Leonard, as Jack Vandeleur swept
up the last pool.

I know he's a scamps answered Leonard, " but
he's a pleasant scamp, and a capital fellow to travel
with  never ill  never out of temper  always ready
for the daj's work, whatever it is, and always able
to make the best of things. Why done you marry
one of his sisters ?  they're both jolly good fellows'

' No coin'' said Monty, shaking his neat little
flaxen head. " I can just contrive to keep myself

' still to be neat, still to be drest What in
mercies name should I do with a wife who would
want food and gowns, and stalls at the theatres ? I
have been thinking that if those St. Aubyn girls
have money  on the nail, you know, not in the
form of expectations from that painfully healthy
father  I might think seriously of one of them.
They are horridly rustic  smell of clover and
beans, and would be likely to disgrace one in London
society  but they are not hideous

I don't think there's much ready money in
that quarter, Monty , answered Leonard. " St.
Aubyn has a good deal of lands

Land,'' screamed Monty. ' I wouldn't touch it
with a pair of tongs ! The workhouses of the next
century will be peopled by the offspring of the
landed gentry. I shudder when I think of the
country squire and his prospects'

*hard lines, said Jack, who had made that remark
two or three times before in the course of the evening.

They were sitting round the fire by this time 
smoking and drinking mulled Burgundy, and the
conversation had become general.

This night was as many other nights. Sometimes
Mr. Tregonell tried to live through the evening
in the drawing-room  enduring the society games
the Boulevard music  the recitations and tableaux
and general frivolity  but he found these amusements
hang upon his spirits like a nightmare. He
watched his wife but could discover nothing actually
reprehensible in her conduct  nothing upon which
he could take his stand as an outraged husband,
and say " This shall not be.'' If theBarons devotion
to her was marked enough for every one to see,
and if her acceptance of his attentions was gracious
in the extreme, his devotion and her graciousness
were no more than he had seen everywhere accepted
as the small change of society, meaning nothing,
tending towards nothing but gradual satiety ; except
in those few exceptional cases which ended in open
scandal and took society by surprise. That which
impressed Leonard was the utter change in his wife's
character. It seemed as if her very nature were
altered. Womanly tendenderness, a gentle and
subdued manner, had given place to a hard brilliancy.
It was as if he had lost a pearl, and found

a diamond in its place  one all softness and purity,
the other all sparkle and light.

He was too proud to sue to her for any renewal
of old confidences  to claim from her any of the
duties of a wife. If she could live and be happy
without him  and he knew but too surely that his
presence, his affection, had never contributed to her
happiness  he would let her see that he could live
without her  that he was content to accept the
position she had chosen  union which was no union
marriage that had ceased to be marriage  a chain
drawn out to its furthest length, yet held so lightly
that neither need feel the bondage.

Everybody at Mount Royal was loud in praise of
Christabel. She was so brilliant, so versatile, she
made her house so utterly charming. This was the
verdict of her new friends  but her old friends were
less enthusiastic. Major Bree came to the Manor
House very seldom now, and frankly owned himself
a fish out of water in Mrs. TregonelFs new
circle.

"Everybody is so laboriously lively' he said;
there is an air of forced hilarity. I sigh for the

house as it was in your mother's time Leonard.
'A haunt of ancient peace ''

There's not much peace about it now, by Jove''
said Leonard. " Why did you put it into my wife's
head to ride to hounds T'

I had nothing to do with it. She asked me to
choose her a hunter, and I chose her something
good and safe, that's alL But I don't think you
ought to object to her hunting, Leonard, or to her
doing anything else that may help to keep her in
good spirits. She was in a very bad way all the
winter's

Do you mean that she was seriously ill ? Their

letters to me were so d d short. I hardly

know anything that went on while I was away.'

Yes. She was very ill  given over to melancholy.
It was only natural that she should be
affected by Angus Harleigh's death, when you
remember what they had been to each other before
you came home. A woman may break an engagement
of that kind, and may be very happy in her
union with another man, but she can't forget her
first lover, if it were only because he is the first.

It was an Unlucky thing your bringing him to
Mount Koyal. One of your impulsive follies'

' YeSj one of my follies. So you say that
Christabel was out of health and spirits all the
winter'

YeSj she would see no one  not even me  or
the Rector. No one but the doctor ever crossed
the threshold. But surely Miss Bridgeman has
told you all about it. Miss Bridgeman was devoted
to her."

 Miss Bridgeman is as close as the grave ; and I
am not going to demean myself by questioning
her''

"Wells there is no need to be unhappy about
the past. Christabel is herself again thank God 
brighter, prettier than ever. That Swiss tour with
Miss Bridgeman and the boy did her worlds of
good. I thought you made a mistake in leaving
her at Mount Royal after that melancholy event.
You should have taken her with you."

Perhaps I ought to have done so' assented
Leonard, thinking bitterly how very improbable it
was that she would have consented to go with him .

He tried to make the best of his position painful
as it was. He blustered and hectored as of old 
gave his days to field sports  his evenings for the
most part to billiards and tobacco. He drank more
than he had been accustomed to drink, sat up late
of nights. His nerves were not benefited by these
latter habits.

Your hand is as shaky as an old womanish
exclaimed Jack, upon his opponent missing an easy
cannon. "Why, you might have done that with
a boot-jack. If you're not careful you'll be in
for an attack of del. them., and that will chaw you
up in a very short time. A man of your stamina
is the worst kind of subject for nervous diseases.
We shall have you catching flies, and seeing
imaginary snow-storms before long."

Leonard received this friendly warning with a
scornful laugh.

De Cazalet drinks more brandy in a day than
I do in a week," he said.

''Ah, but look at his advantages  brought up in
Jersey, where cognac is duty-free. None of us have
had his fine training. Wonderful constitution he

must have  hand as steady as a rock. You saw
him this morning knock off a particular acorn from
the oak in the stable yard with a bullet'

Yes the fellow can shoot ; he's less of an
impostor than I expected'

"Wonderful eye and hand. He must have spent
years of his life in a shooting gallery. You're a
doomed good shot Tregonell; but compared with
him, you're not in it."

' That's very likely, though I have had to live
by my gun in the Rockies. FitzJesse told me
that in South America de Cazalet was known as a
professed duellist."

"And you have only shot four-footed beasts 
never gone for a fellow creature," answered Jack
lightly.

CHAPTER VIII.

S THE OLD DAYS T(

If Leonard Tregonell was troubled and perplexed
by the change in his wife's character, there was one
other person at Mount Royal Christabels nearest
and dearest friend, to whom that change was even
a greater mystification. Jessie Bridgeman, who
had been with her in the dark hours of her grief 
who had seen her sunk in the apathy of despair 
who had comforted and watched her, and sympathized
and wept with her, looked on now in blank
wonderment at a phase of character which was
altogether enigmatical. She had been with Mrs.
Tregonell at Zermatt, when de Cazalet had obtruded
himself on their notice by his officious attentions
during a pilgrimage to the RifFel, and she had been
bewildered at Christabers civility to a man of such
obvious bad style. He had stayed at the same
hotel with them for three or four days, and had

given them as much of his society as he could
without being absolutely intrusive, taking advantage
of having met Christabel five seasons ago , at two
or three quasi literary assemblies ; and at parting
Christabel had invited him to Mount Royal. Mr.
Tregonell will be at home in the autumn' she said,
* and if you should find yourself in Cornwall  he
had talked of exploring the West of England  " I
know he would be glad to see you at Mount Royal''

When Jessie hinted at the unwisdom of an
invitation to a man of whom they knew so little,
Christabel answered carelessly that " Leonard liked
to have his house full of lively people, and would no
doubt be pleased with the Baron de Cazalet/''

You used to leave him to choose his own
visitors''

I know ; but I mean to take a more active part
in the arrangement of things in future. I am
tired of being a cipher

Did you hear those people talking of the Baron
at table d'hote yesterday T'

* I heard a little  I was not particularly attentive'


"Then perhaps you did not hear that he is a
thorough Bohemian  that he led a very wild life in
South America, and was a notorious duellists

What can that matter to us, even if it is
true ?'

It seemed to Jessie that Christabel's whole nature
underwent a change, and that the transformation
dated from her acquaintance with this man. They
were at the end of their tour at the time of
this meeting, and they came straight through to
Paris, where Mrs. Tregonell abandoned herself to
frivolity  going to all the theatres  buying all the
newest and lightest music, spending long mornings
milliners and dressmakers  squandering money
upon fine clothes, which a year ago she would have
scorned to wear. Hitherto her taste had tended to.
simplicity of attire  not without richness  for she
was too much of an artist not to value the artistic
effects of costly fabrics, the beauty of warm colouring.
But she now pursued that Will o the Wisp fashion
from Worth to Pin gat, and bought any number of
gowns, some of which, to Miss Bridgeman\s severe
taste, seemed simply odious.

VOL. III. L

' Do you intend spending next season in May
Fair and do you expect to be asked to a good many
fancy balls V asked Jessie, as Mrs TregonelFs maid
exhibited the gowns in the spacious bedroom at the
Bristol.

'nonsense, Jessie. These are all dinner gowns.
The infinite variety of modern fashion is its chief
merit. The style of to-day embraces three centuries
of the past, from Catherine de Medicis to Madame
Recamier.

At one of the Boulevard theatres Mrs. Tregonell
aud Miss Bridgeman met Mr. FitzJesse, who was
also returning from a summer holiday. He was
Angus Harleigh's friend, and had known Christabel
during the happy days of her first London season.
It seemed hardly strange that she should be glad to
meet him, and that she should ask him to Mount
Royal.

"And now I must have some women to meet
these mens she said, when she and Jessie were at
home again, and the travelled infant had gone back
to his nursery, and had inquired why the hills he
saw from his windows were no longer white, and

why the sea was so much bigger than the lakes he
had seen lately. " I mean to make the house as
pleasant as possible for Leonard when he comes
home''

She and Jessie were alone in the oak panelled
parlour  the room with the alcove overlooking the
hills and the sea. They were seated at a little
table in this recess  ChristabeFs desk open before
her  Jessie knitting.

How gaily you speak. Have you "

She was going to say ' Have you forgiven him
for what was done at St. Nectan's Sieve V
but she checked herself when the words were on
her lips. What if Leonardoss crime was not forgiven,
but forgotten ? In that long dreary winter they had
never spoken of the manner of Angus Harleigh's
death. ChristabeFs despair had been silent. Jessie
had comforted her with vague Avoids which never
touched upon the cruel details of her grief. How
if the mind had been affected by that long interval
of sorrow, and the memory of Leonard's deed
blotted out ? Christabel's new delight in frivolous
things  her sudden fancy for filling her house with

L .2

lively people  might be the awakening of new ]ife
and vigour in a mind that had trembled on the
confines of madness. Was it for her to recall bitter
facts  to reopen the fountain of tears ? She gave one
little sigh for the untimely dead  and then addressed
herself to the duty of pleasing Christabel just as in
days gone by her every effort had been devoted to-making
the elder Mrs. Tregonell happy.

I suppose you had better ask Mrs. Fairfax
Torrington/ she suggested.

Yes, Leonard and she are great chums. We
must have Mrs. Torrington. And there are the St.
Aubyns, nice lively girls and an inoffensive father and
mother. I believe Leonard rather likes them. And
then it will be a charity to have Dopsy and Mopsy/

' I thought you detested themes

No, poor foolish things I was once sorry for
Dopsy. The tears rushed to her eyes. She rose
suddenly from her chair, and went to the window.

 Then she has not forgotten," thought Jessie.

So it was that the autumn party was planned. Mr.
Faddie was doing duty at the little church in the glen,
and thus happened to be in the way of an invitation.

Mr. Montagu was asked as a person of general
usefulness. The St. Aubyn party brought horses,
and men and maids and contributed much to the
liveliness of the establishment, so far as noise means
gaiety. They were all assembled when Baron de
Cazalet telegraphed from a yacht off the Lizard to
ask if he might come, and , receiving a favourable
reply, landed at Penzance, and posted over with his
valet ; his horse and gun cases were brought from
London by another servant.

Leonard had been home nearly a fortnight, and
had begun to accept this new mode of life without
further wonder, and to fall into his old ways, and
find some degree of pleasure in his old occupations 
hunting, shooting.

The Vandeleur girls were draining the cup of
pleasure to the dregs. Dopsy forgot her failure
and grief of last year. One cannot waste all one's
life in mourning for a lover who was never in love
with one.

I wore bugles for him all last winter, and
if I had been able to buy a new black gown I
would have kept in mourning for six mouths,' slip

' Everything's changed for the better' assented
Mopsy. " If we had only horses and could hunt,
like those stuck up St. Aubyn girls , life would
be perfects''

They ride well, I suppose," said Dopsy , *' but
they are dreadfully arrierees. They haven't an
aesthetic idea. When I told them we had thoughts
of belonging to the Browning Society, that eldest one
asked me if it was like the Birkbeck, and if we
should be able to buy a house rent-free by monthly
instalments. And the youngest said that sunflowers
were only fit for cottage gardens."

"And the narrow-minded mother declared she
could see no beauty in single dahlias," added Dopsy,
with ineffable disgust.

The day was hopelessly wet, and the visitors at
Mount Royal were spending the morning in that
somewhat straggling manner common to people who
are in somebody else's house  impressed with a

feeling that it is useless to settle oneself even to the
interesting labour of art needlework when one is
not by one's own fireside. The sportsmen were
all out; but de Cazalet, the Rev. St. Bernard,
and. Mr. Fitz Jesse preferred the shelter of a
well-warmed Jacobean mansion to the wild sweep
of the wind across the moor, or the dash of the
billows.

' I have had plenty of wild life on the shores of the
Pacific' said de Cazalet, luxuriating m a large sage
green plush arm chair, one of the anachronisms of the
grave old library, " At home I revel in civilization  I
cannot have have too much of warmth and comfort
velvety nests like this to lounge in, downy
cushions to lean against, hothouse flowers, and
French cookery. Delicious to hear the rain beating
against the glass, and the wind howling in the
chimney. Put another log on, Faddie, like the best
of fellows''

The Reverend St. Bernard, not much appreciating
this familiarity, daintily picked a log from the big
brazen basket and dropped it in a gingerly manner
upon the hearth, carefully dusting his fingers afterwards

with a cambric handkerchief which sent
forth odours of Mareschal.

Mr. Fitz Jesse was sitting at a distant table,
with a large despatch box and a pile of open letters
before him, writing at railway speed, in order to be
in time for the one o'clock post.

'' He is making up his papers said de Cazalet,
lazily contemplating the worker's bowed shoulders.
I wonder if he is saying anything about us'

I am happy to say that he does not often
discuss church matters'' said Mr. Faddie. " He
shows his good sense by a careful avoidance of
opinion upon our difficulties and our differences."

Perhaps he doesn't think them worth discussing
 of no more consequence than the
shades of difference between tweedledum and
tweedledee," yawned de Cazalet, whereupon Mr.
Faddie gave him a look of contemptuous anger,
and left the room.

Mr. FitzJesse went away soon afterwards with
his batch of letters for the post-bag in the hall,
and the Baron was left alone, in listless contemplation
of the fire. He had been in the 

but had found that apartment uninteresting
by reason of Mrs. Tregonells absence. He did
not care to sit and watch the two Miss St. Aubyns
playing chess  nor to hear Mrs. Fairfax Torrington
dribbling out stray paragraphs from the " society
journals" for the benefit of nobody in particular 
nor to listen to Mrs. St. Aubyns disquisitions upon
the merits of Alderney cowswith which Jessie Bridgeman
made believe to be interested,, while deep in the
intricacies of a crewel-work daffodil. For him the
spacious pink and white panelled room without one
particular person was more desolate than the wild
expanse of the Pampas with its low undulations
growing rougher towards the base of the mountains.
He had come to the library  an apartment chiefly
used by the men  to bask in the light of the fire,
and to brood upon agreeable thoughts. The meditations
of a man who has a very high opinion of
his own merits are generally pleasant, and just now
Oliver de Cazalets ideas about himself were
unusually exalted, for had he not obviously made
the conquest of one of the most charming women
he had ever met.

 A pity she has a husband' he thought. " It
would have suited me remarkably well to drop into
such a luxurious nest as this. The boy is not three
years old  by the time he came of age  well  I
should have lived my life, I suppose, and could afford
to subside into comfortable obscurity'' sighed de
Cazalet, conscious of his forty years. "The husband
looks uncommonly tough; but even Hercules was
mortal. One never knows how or when a man of
that stamp may go off the hooks. 

These pleasing reflections were disturbed by the
entrance of Mopsy, who, after prowling all over
the house in quest of masculine society, came
yawning into the library in search of anything readable
in the way of a newspaper  a readable paper
with Mopsy meaning theatres, fashions, or scandal.

She gave a little start at sight of de Cazalet,
whose stalwart form and florid good looks were by
no means obnoxious to her taste. If he had not
been so evidently devoted to Mrs. Tregonell, Mopsy
would have perchance essayed his subjugation ; but,
remembering Dopsys bitter experience of last year,
the sadder and wiser Miss Vandeleur had made up

She fluttered about the room then stopped ina
Era Angelico pose over a table strewed with papers.

Baron have you seen the Queen V she asked
presently.

Often. I had the honour of making my bow
to her last April. She is one of the dearest women
I know, and she was good enough to feel interested
in my somewhat romantic careers

'' How nice ! But I mean the Queen newspaper.
I am dying to know if it really is coming
in. Now it has been seen in Paris, Fm afraid its
inevitable.

'' May I ask what it is ?"

 Perhaps I oughtn't to mention it  crinoline.
There is a talk about something called a crinolette.'

And Crinoline, I suppose, is own sister to
Crinoline ?"'

And accentuated angles  well yes. If one has
to ride in a hansom or a single brougham with a
woman the hoop and powder style is rather a
burthen. But women are such lovely beings  they
are adorable in any costume. Madame Tallies
with bare feet, and no petticoats to speak of 
Pompadour in patches and wide-spreading brocade
Margaret of Orleans in a peaked head dress and
puffed sleeves  Mary Stuart in a black velvet coif,
and a ruff  each and all adorable  on a pretty
woman."

On a pretty woman  yes. The pretty women
set the fashions and the ugly women have to wear
them  that's the difficulty."

Ah, me' sighed the Baron, " did any one ever
see an ugly woman ? There are so many degrees of
beauty that it takes a long time to get from Venus
to her opposite. A smile  a sparkle  a kindly look
a fresh complexion  a neat bonnet  vivacious
conversation  such trifles will pass for beauty with

a Dean who worships the sex. For him every flower
in the garden of womanhood,, from the imperial rose
to the lowly buttercup, has its own peculiar charm."

And yet I should have thought you were awfully
fastidious' said Mopsy, trifling with the newspapers
and that nothing short of absolute perfection would
please you''

Absolute perfection is generally a bore. I have
met famous beauties who had no more attraction
than if they had been famous statues."

Yes ; I know there is a cold kind of beauty 
but there are women who are as fascinating as they
are lovely. Our hostess for instance  don't you
think her utterly sweet ?"

She is very lovely. Do come and sit by the fire.
It is such a creepy morning. I'll hunt for any
newspapers you like presently ; but in the meanwhile
let us chat. I was getting horribly tired of
my own thoughts when you came in''

Mopsy simpered, and sat down in the easy chair
opposite the Baron's. She began to think that this
delightful person admired her more than she had
hitherto supposed. His desire for her company

looked promising. What if after all she who had
striven so much less eagerly than poor Dopsy strove
last year, should be on the high road to a conquest.
Here was the handsomest man she had ever meta
man with title and money, courting her society
in a house full of people.

Yes, she is altogether charming said the Baron
lazily, as if he were talking merely for the sake of
conversation. " Very sweet, as you say, but not
quite my style  there is a something  an intangible
something wanting. She has chic  she has savoir-faire
; but she has not  no, she has not that. electrical
wit which  which I have admired in others
less conventionally beautifully

The Barons half veiled smile, a smile glancing
from under lowered eyelids, hinted that this vital
spark which was wanting in Christabel might be
found in Mopsy.

The damsel blushed, and looked down, conscious
of eyelashes artistically treated.

"I don't think Mrs.Tregonell has been quite happy
in her married life, said Mopsy. " My brother and
Mr. Tregonell are very old friends, don't you know ;

like brothers, in fact; and Mr. Tregonell tells Jack
everything. I know his cousin didn't want to marry
him  she was engaged to somebody else, don't you
know, and that engagement was broken off, but he
had set his heart upon marrying her  and his mother
had set her heart upon the match  and between
them they talked her into it. She never really
wanted to marry him  Leonard has owned that to
Jack in his savage moods. But I ought not to run on
so  I am doing very wrong"  said Mopsy, hastily.

You may say anything you please to me. I
am like the grave. I never give up a secret," said
the BaroUj who had settled himself comfortably in
his chair, assured that Mopsy, once set going, would
tell him all she could tell.

"No, I don't believe  from what Jack says he
says in his tempers  I don't believe she ever liked
him," pursued Mopsy. "And she was desperately in
love with the other one. But she gave him up at
her aunt's instigation, because of some early intrigue
of his  which was absurd, as she would have known,
poor thing, if she had not been brought up in this
out-of-the-way corner of the world."

The other one. Who was the other one ?'*
asked the Baron.

The man who was shot at St. Nectans Sieve
last year. You must have heard the story."

Yes ; Mr. St. Aubyn told me about it. And
this Mr. Harleigh had been engaged to Mrs.
Tregonell? Odd that he should be staying in
this house V

Wasn't it ? One of those odd things that
Leonard Tregonell is fond of doing. He was
always eccentric''

And during this visit was there anything  the
best of women are mortal  was there anything in
the way of a flirtation going on between Mrs.
Tregonell and her former sweetheart ?"

Not a shadow of impropriety' answered Mopsy
heartily. ' She behaved perfectly. T knew the story
from my brother, and couldn't help watching them
there was nothing underhand  not the faintest
indication of a secret understanding between them''

' And Mr. Tregonell was not jealous ?"

I cannot sav ; but I am sure he had no

I suppose Mrs. Tregonell was deeply affected .
Harleigh's death?"

I hardly know. She seemed wonderfully calm ;
but as we left almost immediately after the accident
I had not much opportunity of judging."

A sad business. A lovely woman married to a
man she does not care for  and really if I were nota
visitor under his roof I should be tempted to say
that in my opinion no woman in her senses could
care for Mr. Tregonell. But I suppose after all
practical considerations had something to do with
the match. Tregonell is lord of half-a-dozen manors
and the lady hadn't a sixpence. Was that it T

' Not at all. Mrs. Tregonell has money in her
own right. She was the only child of an Indian
judge and her mother was co-heiress with the late
Mrs. Tregonell, who was a Miss Champernowne  I
believe she has at least fifteen hundred a year, upon
which a single woman might live very comfortably,
don't you knows concluded Miss Vandeleur with a
grand air.

No doubts said the Baron. " And the fortune
was settled on herself, I conclude T'

VOL. III. M

Every shilling. Mr. TregonelFs mother insisted
upon that. No doubt she felt it her duty to protect
her nieces interest. Mr. Tregonell has complained
to Jack of his wife being so independent. It
lessens his hold upon her , don't you see."

Naturally. She is not under any obligation to
him for her milliners bills."

'' No. And her bills must be awfully heavy this
year. I never saw such a change in any one. Last
autumn she dressed so simply. A tailor-gown in
the morning  black velvet or satin in the evening.
And now there is no end to the variety of her
gowns. It makes one feel awfully shabby."

' Such artistic toilets as yours can never be
shabby said the Baron. ' In looking at a picture
by Greuze one does not think how much a yard
the pale indefinite drapery cost , one only sees the
grace and beauty of the draping."

' True ; taste will go a long way"* assented
Mopsy, who had been trying for the last ten years
to make taste  that is to say a careful study of the
west-end shop-windows  do duty for cash.

Then you find Mrs. Tregonell changed since

your last visit ?" inquired de Cazalet,, bent upon
learning all he could.

Remarkably. She is so much livelier  she
seems so much more anxious to please. It is a
change altogether for the better. She seems gayer
brighter  happier .

"Yes' thought the Baron 'she is in love.
Only one magician works such wonders and he is
the oldest of the gods  the motive power of the
universelle

The gong sounded, and they went off to lunch.
At the foot of the stairs they met Christabel bringing
down, her boy. She was not so devoted to him
as she had been last year, but there were occasions
like this wet morning, for instance  when she
gave herself up to his society.

Leo is going to eat his dinner with us/ she
said, smiling at the Baron, " if you will not think
him a nuisance."

On the contrary, I shall be charmed to improve
his acquaintance. I hope he will let me sit next him."

That," lisped Leo decisively. '' Don't like oo."

Oh, Leo, how rude."

m2

' Don't reprove him," said the Baron. '' It is
a comfort to be reminded that for the first three or
four years of our lives we all tell the truth. But I
mean you to like me, Leo, all the same."

"I hate oo/' said Leo, frankly  he always expressed
himself in strong Saxon English  ' but soo
love my mamma."

This, in a shrill childish treble, was awkward for
the rest of the party. Mrs. Fairfax Torrington
gave an arch glance at Mr. Fitz Jesse. Dopsy
reddened, and exploded in a little spluttering laugh
behind her napkin. Christabel looked divinely unconscious,
smiling down at her boy, whose chair had
been placed at the corner of the table close to his
mother.

It is a poets privilege to worship the beautiful,
Leo, said the Baron, with a self-satisfied smirk.
The old troubadours right of allegiance to the
loveliest  as old as chivalry."

'' And as disreputable," said FitzJesse. " If I
had been one of the knights of old, and had found a
troubadour sneaking about my premises, that troubadour's
head should have been through his guitar

before he knew where he was  or he should have
discovered that my idea of a common chord was a
halter. But in our present age of ultra-refinement
the social troubadour is a gentleman , and the
worship of beauty one of the higher forms of
culture."

The Baron looked at the journalist suspiciously.
Bold as he was of speech and bearings he never ventured
to cross swords with Mr. Fitz Jesse. He was
too much afraid of seeing an article upon his Jersey
antecedents or his married life in leaded type in
the Sling.

Happily, Mr. Tregonell was not at luncheon upon
this particular occasion. He had gone out shooting
with Jack Vandeleur and little Monty. It was
supposed to be a great year for woodcock, and the
Squire and his friends had been after the birds
in every direction, except St. Nectans Sieve. He
had refused to go there, although it was a
tradition that the place was a favourite resort of
the birds. .

Why don't you shoot, Mrs. Tregonell ?" asked
Mrs. Torrington ; " it is just the one thing that

makes life worth living in a country like this where
there is no great scope for hunting

should like roaming about the hills, but I
could never bring myself to hit a birds answered
Christabel. ' I am too fond of the feathered race.
I don't know why or what it is but there is something
in a bird which appeals intensely to ones
pity. I have been more sorry than I can say for a
dying sparrow ; and I can never teach myself to
remember that birds are such wretchedly cruel and
unprincipled creatures in their dealings with one
another that they really deserve very little compassion
from mans

"Except that man has the responsibility of
knowing better' said Mr. Sitz Jesse. ' That infernal
cruelty of the animal creation is one of the problems
that must perplex the gentle optimist who
sums up his religion in a phrase of Pope's, and
avows that whatever is is right. Who looking at
the meek meditative countenance of a Jersey cow,
those large stag-like eyes  Junos eyes  would
believe that Mrs. Cow is capable of trampling a sick
sister to death  nay, would look upon the operation

Is there not a little moral trampling done by
sting-eyed creatures of a higher grade ? asked Mrs.
Torrington. ' Let a woman once fall down in the
midi and there are plenty of her own sex ready to
grind her into the mire. Cows have a coarser,
more practical way of treating their fallen sisters,
but the principle is the same, don't you knows

*I have always found man the more malignant
aniiial/'' said Fitz Jesse. At her worst a woman
generally has a motive for the evil she does  some
wrong to avenge  some petty slight to retaliate.
A man stabs for the mere pleasure of stabbing.
With him slander is one of the fine arts. Depend
upon it your Crabtree is a more malevolent creature
than Mrs, Candour  and the Candours would not
hill reputations if the Crabtrees did not admire and
applaud the slaughter. For my own part I believe
that if there were no men in the world, women
would be almost kind to each other. 

The Baron did not enter into this discussion.
He had no taste for any subject out of his own

line Tvhich was art and beauty. With character
or morals he had nothing to do. He did not even
pretend to listen to the discourse of the others but
amused himself with petting Leo, who sturdily
repulsed his endearments. When he spoke it vasto
reply to ChristabeFs last remark.

If you are fonder of roaming on the hills tian
of shooting, Mrs. Tregonell why should we not
organize a rambling party ? It is not too late fora
picnic. Let us hold ourselves ready for the first
bright day  perhaps, after this deluge, we shall
have fine weather tomorrow  and organize a
pilgrimage to Tintagel, with all the freedom of
pedestrians, who can choose their own company,
and are not obliged to sit opposite the person they
least care about in the imprisonment of a barouche
or a wagonette. Walking picnics are the only"
picnics worth having. You are a good walker, I
knows Mrs. Tregonell ; and you, Mrs. Warrington,
you can walk I have no doubts

The widow smiled and nodded. " Oh, yes, I an
good for half-a-dozen miles, or so, she said,
wondering whether she possessed a pair of boots ii

which she could walk, most of her boots being made
rather with a view to exhibition on a fender-stool
or on the step of a carriage than to locomotion.
But I think as I am not quite so young as I was
twenty years ago, I had better follow you in the
pony-carriages

Pony-carriage, me no pony-carriages exclaimed
de Cazalet. "Ours is to be a walking
picnic and nothing else. If you like to meet
us as we come home you can do so  but none
but pedestrians shall drink our champagne or eat
our salad  that salad which I shall have the
honour to make for you with my own hands, Mrs.
TregonelL"

Jessie Bridgeman looked at Christabel to see if
any painful memory-any thought of that other
picnic at Tintagel when Angus Harleigh was still
a stranger, and the world seemed made for gladness
and laughter, would disturb her smiling serenity.
But there Alas no trace of mournful recollection in
that bright beaming face which was turned in all
graciousness towards the Baron, who sat caressing
Leos curls, while the boy wriggled his plump

Oh ! it will be too lovely  too utterly ouftish/'
exclaimed Dopsy, who had lately acquired this last
flower of speech  a word which might be made to
mean almost anything, from the motive power
which impels a billiard cue to the money that pays
the players losses at pool  a word which is a substantive
or adjective according to the speaker's
pleasure.

I suppose we shall be allowed to join you'
said Mopsy, " we are splendid walkers'

Of course  entry open to all weights and ages,
with Mrs. TregonelFs permission."

Let it be your picnic, Baron, since it is your
idea," said Christabel ; " my housekeeper shall take
your orders about the luncheon, and we will all
consider ourselves your guests."

I shall expire if I am left out in the cold,"
said Mrs. Torrington. " You really must allow age
the privilege of a pony carriage. That delightful
cob of Mrs. TregonelFs understands me perfectly."

 Well, on second thoughts, you shall have the

CHAPTER IX.

THOU SHOULDST COME LIKE A FURY CROWNED
WITH SNAKES."

When the shooting party came home to afternoon
tea, Dopsy and Mopsy were both full of the picnic.
The sun was sinking in lurid splendour ; there was
every chance of a fine day tomorrow. De Cazalet
had interviewed the housekeeper,, and ordered
luncheon. Mopsy went about among the men like
a recruiting sergeant, telling them of the picnic,
and begging them to join in that festivity.

'rit will be wretched for Dopsy andl  her
grammar was weak, and she had a fixed idea that
I" was a genteeler pronoun than " me,"  *' if you
don't all come"" she said to Colonel Blathwayt.
Of course the Baron will devote himself exclusively
to Mrs. Tregonell. Fitz Jesse will go in the pony-trap
with Mrs. Torrington, and they'll have dissected
everybody they know before they get there. And
I can't get on a little bit with Mr. Faddie, though

he is awfully nice. I feel that if I were to let him
talk to me an hour at a stretch I should be
obliged to go and join some Protestant sisterhood
and wear thick boots and too fearful bonnets for the
rest of my days/

"And what would society do without Mopsy
Vandeleur?" asked the Colonel smiling at her.
I should enjoy a ramble with you above all
things, but a picnic is such a confoundedly
infantine business. I always feel a hundred years
old when I attempt to be gay and frisky before
dusk  feel as if I had been dead and come back to
life again, as some of the savage tribes believe.
However, if it will really please you, I'll give up
the birds tomorrow, and join your sports.-*

'' How sweet of you, exclaimed Mopsy, with a
thrilling look from under her painted lashes.
The whole thing would be ghastly without
you."

What's the row V asked Leonard, turning his
head upon the cushion of the easy chair in which he
lolled at full length, to look up at the speakers as
they stood a little way behind him.

The master of Mount Royal was sitting by one
fireplace, with a table and tea-tray all to himself;
while Mrs. Tregonell and her circle were grouped
about the hearth at the opposite end of the hall.
Jack Vandeleur and little Monty stood in front
of the fire near their host faithful adherents to the
friend who fed them; but all the rest of the
party clustered round Christabel.

Mopsy told Mr. Tregonell all about the intended
picnic.

It is to be the Barons affairs she said gaily.
He organized it; and he is to play the host.
There are to be no carriages  except the pony-trap
for Mrs. Warrington who pinches her feet and
her waist to a degree that makes locomotion
impossible. We are all to walk except her. And I
believe we are to have tea at the farm by St.
Pirates well  a simple farmhouse tea in some
dear old whitewashed room with a huge fireplace,
hams and onions and things hanging from the rafters.
Isn't it a lovely idea T'

<i Yery/ grumbled Leonard ; ' but I should say
you could have your tea a great deal more comfortably

here, without being under an obligation to the
farm peoples

' Oh, but we have our tea here every afternoon'
said Mopsy. ' Think of the novelty of the thing."

'No doubt. And this picnic is. the Barons
idea?"

'* His and Mrs. TregonelFs they planned it all
between them. And they are going to get up
private theatricals for your birthday."

How kinds growled Leonard, scowling at his
teacup.

' Isn't it sweet of them ? They are going to
play delicate Ground.' He is to be Citizen
Sangfroid and she Pauline  the husband and wife
who quarrel and pretend to separate and are
desperately fond of each other all the time, don't
you know ? It's a powder pieces

'' A what ?"

A play in which the people wear powdered
wigs and patches, and all that kind of thing.
How dense you are."

I was born so, I believe. And in this powder
piece Mrs. Tregonell and Baron de Cazalet are to

be husband and wife, and quarrel and make friends
again  eb ?"

"Yes. The reconciliation is awfully fetching.
But you are not jealous, are you T'

Jealous ? Not the least bit.'-'

"That's so nice of you; and you will come to
our picnic, tomorrow T'

I think not'

Why not ?'

Because the woodcock season is a short one,
and I want to make the best use of my time"'

What a barbarian, to prefer any sport to our
society'' exclaimed Mopsy coquettishly. " For my
part, I hate the very name of woodcock."

Why ?" asked Leonard, looking at her keenly,
with his dark, bright eyes ; eyes which had that
hard, glassy brightness that has always a cruel look.

Because it reminds me of that dreadful day
last year when poor Mr. Harleigh was killed. If
he had not gone out woodcock shooting he would
not have been killed."

No ; a man's death generally hinges upon
something," answered Leonard, with a chilling

sneer; "no effect without a cause. But I don't
think you need waste your lamentations upon Mr.
Harleigh ; he did not treat your sister particularly
well'

Mopsy sighed, and was thoughtful for a moment
or two. Captain Vandeleur and Mr. Montagu had
strolled off to change their clothes. The master
of the house and Miss Vandeleur were alone at
their end of the old hall. Ripples of silvery
laughter, and the sound of mirthful voices came from
the group about the other fireplace, where the
blaze of piled-up logs went roaring up the wide
windy chimney, making the most magical changeful
light in which beauty or its opposite can be seen.

No, he hardly acted fairly to poor Dopsy : heled
her on, don't you know, and we both thought
he meant to propose. It would have been such a
splendid match for her  and I could have stayed
with them sometimes."

Of course you could. Sometimes in your case
would have meant all the year round. '

And he was so fascinating, so handsome, ill ashe
looked, poor darling' sighed Mopsy. ' I know

TOL. III. N

Dop hadn't one mercenary feeling about Mm.
It was a genuine case of spoons  she would have
died for him"*

If he had wished it ; but men have not yet gone
in for collecting corpses' sneered Leonard.  However
poor the specimen of your sex may be, they
prefer the living subject  even the surgeons are all
coming round to that''

Don't be nasty' protested Mopsy. " I only
meant to say that Dopsy really adored Angus
Harleigh for his own sake. I know how kindly
you felt upon the subject  and that you wanted it
to be a match."

"Yes, I did my best' answered Leonard. " I
brought him here, and gave you both your chance."

*' And Jack said that you spoke very sharply to
Mr. Harleigh that last night''

Yes, I gave him a piece of my mind. I told
him that he had no right to come into my house and
play fast and loose with my friend's sister."

'' How did he take it ?"

'' Pretty quietly."

You did not quarrel with him ?"

' Noj it could hardly be called a quarrel. We
were both too reasonable  understood each other
too thoroughly answered Leonard, as he got up
and went off to his dressing-room, leaving Mopsy
sorely perplexed by an indescribable something in
his tone and manner. Surely there must be some
fatal meaning in that dark evil smile, which
changed to so black a frown, and that deep sigh
which seemed wrung from the very heart of the
man : a man whom Mopsy had hitherto believed
to be somewhat poorly furnished with that organ,
taken in its poetical significance as a thing that
throbs with love and pity.

Alone in his dressing-room the lord of the Manor
sat down in front of the fire with his boots on the
hob, to muse upon the incongruity of his present
position in his own house. A year ago he had
ruled supreme, sovereign master of the domestic
circle, obeyed and ministered to in all humility by
a lovely and pure-minded wife. Now he was a
cipher in his own house, the husband of a woman
who was almost as strange to him as if he had
seen her face for the first time on his return from

n2

South America. This beautiful brilliant creature,
who held him at arm's length, defied him openly
with looks and tones in which his guilty soul
recognized a terrible meaning  looks and tones
which he dare not challenge  this woman who
lived only for pleasure, fine dress, frivolity, who
had given his house the free-and-easy air of a
mess-room, or a club  could this be indeed the
woman he had loved in her girlhood, the fair and
simple-minded wife whom his mother had trained
for him, teaching her all good things, withholding
all knowledge of evil.

"Fm not going to stand it much longer,' he
said to himself, with an oath, as he kicked the logs
about upon his fire, and then got up to dress for
the feast at which he always felt himself just the
one guest who was not wanted.

He had been at home three weeks  it seemed an
age  an age of disillusion and discontent  and he
had not yet sought any explanation with Christabel.
Not yet had he dared to claim his right to be
obeyed as a husband, to be treated as a friend and
adviser. With a strange reluctance he put off the

explanation from day to day, and in the meanwhile
the aspect of life at Mount Royal was growing
daily less agreeable to him. Could it be that this
wife of his, whose purity and faith he had tried by
the hardest test  the test of daily companionship
with her first and only lover  was inclined to
waver now  to play him false for so shallow a
coxcomb, so tawdry a fine gentleman as Oliver
de Cazalet. Not once, but many times within the
past week he had asked himself that question.
Could it be ? He had heard strange stories  had
known of queer cases of the falling away of good
women from the path of virtue. He had heard of
sober matrons  mothers of fair children, wives of
many years  the Cornelia of their circle, staking
home, husband, children, honour, good name, and
troops of friends against the wild delirium of
some new-born fancy, sudden, demoniac as the
dance of death. The women who go wrong are
not always the most likely women. It is not the
trampled slave, the neglected and forlorn wife of a
bad husband  but the pearl and treasure of a happy
circle who takes the fatal plunge into the mire.

The forlorn slave-wife stays in the dreary home
and nurses her children, battles with her husbands
creditors, consoles herself with church going and
many prayers fondly hoping for a future day in
which Tom will find out that she is fairer and
dearer than any of his false goddesses, and come home
repentant to the domestic hearth : while the good
husbands idol, sated with legitimate worship, gives
herself up all at once to the intoxication of unholy
incense, and topples off her shrine. Leonard
Tregonell knew that the world was full of such
psychological mysteries ; and yet he could hardly
bring himself to believe that Christabel was of the
stuff that makes false wives, or that she could be
won by such a third-rate Don Juan as the Baron
de Cazalet.

The dinner was a little noisier and gayer than
usual to-night. Every one talked, laughed, told
anecdotes, let off puns, more or less atrocious 
except the host, who sat in his place an image of
gloom. Happily Mrs. St. Aubyn was one of those
stout, healthy, contented people who enjoy their
dinner, and only talk about as much as is required

for the assistance of digestion. She told prosy-stories
about her pigs and poultry  which were
altogether superior, intellectually and physically, to
other peoples pigs and poultry  and only paused
once or twice to exclaim, " You are looking awfully
tired, Mr. Tregonell. You must have overdone it
to-day. Don't you take curator ? I always do
after ice pudding. Its so comforting. Do you
know at the last dinner I was at before I came here
the curator was ginger brandy. Wasn't that
horrid ? People ought not to do such things."

Leonard suggested in a bored voice that this
might have been the butlers mistake.

"I don't think so. I believe it was actual
meanness  but I shall never take liqueur at that
house again," said Mrs. St. Aubyn, in an injured tone.

Are you going to this picnic tomorrow V"

' I think not. Fm afraid the walk would be too
much for me  and I am not fond enough of Mrs.
Torrington to enjoy two hours tete-astute in a
pony-carriage. My girls will go, of course. And
I suppose you will be there," added Mrs. St. Aubyn,
with intention.

''No Vandeleur, Monty, and I are going shooting'


Well, if I were in your shoes and had such a
pretty wife I should not leave her to go picnicking
about the world with such an attractive man as
the Baron'

Leonard gave an uneasy little laugh, meant tO'
convey the idea of supreme security.

Vm not jealous of de Cazelet/'' he said. " Surely
you don't call him an attractive man."

'dangerously attractive," replied Mrs. St.
Aubyn, gazing at the distant Baron, whose florid
good looks were asserting themselves at the further-end
of the table, on Christabers left hand  she had
Mr. St. Aubyn's grey, contented face, glistening
with dinner, on her right. " He is just the kind
of man I should have fallen in love with when I
was your wife's age."

Really," exclaimed Leonard, incredulously.
"But I suppose after you married St. Aubyn, you
left off falling in love."

Of course. I did not put myself in the way
of temptation. I should never have encouraged

such a man  handsome accomplished unscrupulous
 as Baron de Cazelet.'''

I don't think his good looks or his unscrupulousness
will make any difference to my wife's
said Leonard. *' She knows how to take care of
herself'

No doubt. But that does not release you from
the duty of taking care. You had better go to
the picnic'

My dear Mrs. St. Aubyn if I were to go now
after what you have just said to me, you might
suppose I was jealous of de Capulet ; and that is
just the one supposition I could not stand' answered
Leonard. " It would take a dozen such
fascinating men to shake my confidence in my
wife : she is not an acquaintance of yesterday,
remember : I have known her all my life."

Mrs. St. Aubyn sighed and shook her head. She
was one of those stupid well-meaning women whose
mission in life is to make other people uncomfortable
 with the best intentions. She kept a
steady look-out for the approaching misfortunes of
her friends. She was the first to tell an anxious

mother that her youngest boy was sickening for
scarlet fever or that her eldest girl looked consumptive.
She prophesied rheumatics and bronchitis
to incautious people who went out in wet weather 
she held it as a fixed belief that all her friends'
houses were damp. It was in vain that vexed
householders protested against such a suspicion,
and held forth upon the superiority of their
drainage, the felt under their tiles, their air
bricks, and ventilators. " My dear, your house is
damps she would reply conclusively. " What it
would be if you had not taken those precautions
I shudder to imagine  but I only know that I get
the shivers every time I sit in your drawing-rooms''


To-night she was somewhat offended with Mr.
Tregonell that he refused to take alarm at her
friendly warning. She had made up her mind that
it was her duty to speak. She had told the girls
so in the course of their afternoon constitutional, a
private family walk.

' If things get any worse I shall take you away,
she said, as they trudged along the lane in their

waterproofs, caring very little for a soft drizzling
rain, which was supposed to be good for their complexions.


Don mothers said Emily. " Clara and I are
having such a jolly time. Mrs. Tregonell is straight
enough, Tm sure. She does flirt outrageously
with the Baron, I admit ; but an open flirtation of
that kind seldom means mischief; and Mr. Trego-
nell is such a heavy clod-hopping fellow : his wife
may be forgiven for flirting a little'

Mrs. Tregonell flirts more than a little' replied
Mrs. St. Aubyn. '' All I can say is, I don't like it,
and I don't think it's a proper spectacle for girls''

Then you'd better send us back to the nursery,
mother, or shut us up in a convent," retorted the
younger of the damsels. '' If you don't want us to
see young married women flirt, you must keep us
very close indeed."

If you feel uneasy about your Cochin China,
mother, you can go home, and leave us to follow
with the pater," said Emily. " I've set my heart
upon stopping till after Mr. Tregonell's birthday,
the 14th of November, for the theatricals will be fine

fun. They talk of '' High Life below Stairs '' for us
girls after " Delicate Ground ;" and I think we shall
be able to persuade Mrs. Tregonell to wind up with
a dance. What is the use of people having fine
rooms if they don't know how to use them V

Mrs. Tregonell seems ready for anything'
sighed the matron. " I never saw such a change in
any one. Do you remember how quiet she was the
summer before last when we were here for a few
days V

CHAPTER X.

* HIS LADY SMILES ; DELIGHT IS IN HER YACe/'

That benevolent advice of Mrs. St. Aubyns was
not without its influence upon Leonard, lightly ashe
seemed to put aside the insinuation of evil. The
matrons speech helped to strengthen his own doubts
and fears. Other eyes than his had noted 
manner of receiving the Barons attentions 
other people had been impressed by the change in
her. The thing was not an evil of his own
imagining. She was making herself the talk of his
friends and acquaintance. There was scandal  foul
suspicion in the very atmosphere she breathed. That
mutual understanding, that face to face arraignment,
which he felt must come sooner or later, could not
be staved off much longer. The wife who defied
him thus openly, making light of him under his
own roof, must he brought to book.

To-morrow she and I must come to terms'
Leonard said to himself.

No one had much leisure for thought that even-ins.
The drawing-room was a scene of babble and
laughter, music flirtation frivolity, everybody
seeming to be blest with that happy-go-lucky
temperament which can extract mirth from the
merest trifles. Jessie Bridgeman and Mr. Tregonell
were the only lookers-on  the only two people who
in Jack Vandeleur's favourite phrase were not ' in
it' Every one else was full of the private theatricals.
The idea had only been mooted after luncheon, and
now it seemed as if life could hardly have been
bearable yesterday without this thrilling prospect.
Colonel Blathwayt, who had been out shooting all
the afternoon, entered vigorously into the discussion.
He was an experienced amateur actor, had helped
to swell the funds of half the charitable institutions
of London and the provinces ; so he at once assumed
the function of stage manager.

De Cazalet can act'' he said. " I have seen
him at South Kensington ; but I don't think he
knows the ropes as well as I do. You must let me

manage the whole business for you ; write to the
London people for stage and scenery, lamps,
costumes, wigs. And of course you will want me
for Alphonse''

Little Monty had been suggested for Alphonse.
He was fair-haired and effeminate, and had just that
small namby-pamby air which would suit Pauline's
faint-hearted lover ; but nobody dared to say anything
about him when Colonel Blathwayt made this
generous offer.

Will you really play Alphonse T' exclaimed
Christabel, looking up from a volume of engravings,
illustrating the costumes of the Directory and Empire,
over which the young ladies of the party, notably
Dopsy and Mopsy, had been giggling and ejaculating.
We should not have ventured to offer you a
secondary party's

' You'll find it won't be a secondary character as
I shall play it'' answered the Colonel, calmly.
Alphonse will go better than any part in the piece.
And now as to the costumes. Do you want to be
picturesque, or do you want to be correct ?"

Picturesque by all means," cried Mopsy. " Dear

Mrs. Tregonell would look too lovely in powder and
patches."

Like Boucher Pompadour said the Colonel.
Do you know I think now fancy balls are the rage,
the Louis Quinze costume is rather played out.
Every ponderous matron fancies herself in powder
and brocade. The powder is hired for the evening,
and the brocade is easily convertible into a dinner
gown," added the Colonel, who spent the greater
part of his life among women, and prided himself upon
knowing their ways. " For my part, I should like
to see Mrs. Tregonell dressed like Madame Tallies."

Undressed like Madame Tallies, you mean,"
said Captain Vandeleur : and thereupon followed a
lively discussion as to the costume of the close of
the last century as compared with the costume of
to-day, which ended in somebody's assertion that
the last years of a century are apt to expire in
social and political convulsions, and that there was
every promise of revolution as a wind-up for the
present age.

' My idea of the close of the nineteenth century
is that it will be a period of dire poverty,' ' said the

proprietor of the Sling ; " an age of pauperism
already heralded by the sale of noble old mansions,
the breaking-up of great estates, the destruction of
famous collections, galleries, libraries, the pious
hoards of generations of connoisseurs and bookworms,
scattered to the four winds by a stroke of
the auctioneer's hammer. The landed interest
and the commercial classes are going down the
hill together. Suez has ruined our shipping
interests ; an unreciprocated free trade is ruining our
commerce. Coffee, tea, cotton  our markets are narrowing
for all. After a period of lavish expenditure,
reckless extravagance, or at any rate the affectation
of reckless extravagance, there will come an era
of dearth. Those are wisest who will foresee and
anticipate the change, simplify their habits, reduce
their luxuries, put on a Quakerish sobriety in dress
and entertainments, which, if carried out nicely, may
pass for high art  train themselves to a kind of holy
poverty outside the cloister  and thus break their
fall. Depend upon it, there will be a fall, for everyone
of those men and women who at this present
day are living up to their incomes'

VOL. III. o

The voice is the voice of Fitz Jesse, but the
words are the words of Cassandra'' said Colonel
Blathwayt. " For my part I am like the Greeks,
and never listen to such gloomy vaticinations. I
daresay the deluge ivill come  a deluge now and
again is inevitable ; but I think the dry land will
last our time. And in the meanwhile was there ever
a pleasant world than that we live in  an entirely
rebuilt and revivified London  clubs theatres,
restaurants, without number  gaiety and brightness
everywhere ? If our amusements are frivolous, at
least they are hearty. If our friendships are transient,
they are very pleasant while they last. We
know people to-day, and cut them tomorrow; that
is one of the first conditions of good society. The
people who are cut understand the force of circumstances,
and are just as ready to take up the running
a year or two hence, when we can afibrd to know
them''

' Blessed are the poor in spirits quoted little
Monty, in a meek voice.

Our women are getting every day more like the
women of the Directory, and the Consulate continued

the Colonel. 'ewe have come to short petticoats
and gold anklets. All in good time we shall
come to bare feet. We have abolished sleeves, and
we have brought bodices to a reductio ad absurdum ;
but, although prudes and puritans may disapprove
our present form, I. must say that women were
never so intelligent or so delightful. We have
come back to the days of the salon and the petit
souper. Our daughters are sirens and our wives
are wits."

Charming for Colonel Blathwayt, whose only
experience is of other peoples wives and daughters
said little Monty. " But I don't feel sure that the
owners are quite so happy .''

When a man marries a pretty woman, he puts
himself beyond the pales"* said Mr. Fitz Jesse;
nobody sympathizes with him. I daresay there
was not a member of the Grecian League who did
not long to kick Menelaus.

"There should be stringent laws for the repression
of nice girls' fathers," said little Monty.
Could there not be some kind of institution like
the Irish Land Court, to force parents to cash up,

o2

and hand over daughter and dowry to any spirited
young man who made a bid ? Here am I, a
conspicuous martyr to parental despotism. I might
have married half a dozen heiresses but for the
intervention of stony-hearted fathers. I have gone
for them at all ages from pinafores to false fronts ;
but I have never been so lucky as to rise an
orphan.''

'' Poor little Monty ! But what a happy escape
for the lady''

Ah, I should have been very kind to her, even
if her youth and beauty dated before the Reform
Bill' said Mr. Montagu. " I should not have
gone into society with her  one must draw the
line somewhere. But I should have been forbear-dear

Mrs. Tregonell/' said Mopsy, gushingly,.
have you made up your mind what to wear ?"

Christabel had been turning the leaves of a folio
abstractedly for the last ten minutes.

"To wear? Oh, for the play ! Well, I suppose
I must be as true to the period as I can, without
imitating Madame Tallies. Baron, you draw beautifully.

Will you make a sketch for my costume ? I
know a little woman in George Street, Hanover
Square, who will carry out your idea charmingly'

I should have thought that you could have
imagined a short-waisted gown and a pair of long
mittens without the help of an artist' said Jessie,
with some acidity. She had been sitting close to
the lamp, poring over a piece of point-lace work, a
quiet and observant listener. It was a fixed idea
timon the servants at Mount Royal that Miss
Bridgeman's eyes were constructed on the same
principle as those of a horse, and that she could see
behind her. " There is nothing so very elaborate
in the dress of that period, is there ?''

'' I will try to realize the poetry of the costume"'

Oh, but the poetry means the bare feet and
.ankles, doesn't it?" asked Miss Bridgeman.
When you talk about poetry in costume, you
generally mean something that sets a whole roomful
of people staring and tittering."

My Pauline will look a sylph !" said the Baron,
with a languishing glance at his hostess.

And thus, in the pursuit of the infinitely little,

the evening wore away. Songs and laughter, music
of the lightest and most evanescent character, games
which touched the confines of idiocy, and set
Leonard wondering whether the evening amusements
of Coney Hatch and Maxwell could possibly
savour of wilder lunacy than these sports which his
wife and her circle cultivated in the grave old
reception-room, where a council of Cavaliers, with
George Trevelyan of Nettlecombe, Royalist Colonel,
at their head, had met and sworn fealty to Charles
Stuart cause, at hazard of fortune and life.

Leonard stood with his back to the wide old fireplace,
watching these revellers, and speculating, in a
troubled spirit, as to how much of this juvenile friskiness
was real; contemplating, with a cynical spirit,
that nice sense of class distinction which enabled the
two St. Aubyn girls to keep Mopsy and Dopsy at an
impassable distance, even while engaged with them in
these familiar sports. Vain that in the Post Office
game, Dopsy as Montreal exchanged places with
Emily St. Aubyn as Newmarket. Montreal and Newmarket
themselves are not farther apart geographically
than the two damsels were morally as they

skipped into each other's chairs. Vain that in the
Spelling game the South Belgravians caught up the
landowner's daughters with a surpassing sharpness'
and sometimes turned the laugh against those tender
scions of the landed aristocracy. The very attitude
of Clara St. Aubyn's chin  the way she talked
apart with Mrs. Tregonell seemingly unconscious
of the Vandeleur presence, marked her inward sense
of the gulf between them.

It was midnight before any one thought of going
to bed, yet there was unwonted animation at nine
o'clock next morning in the dining-room, where
every one was talking of the day's expedition :
always excepting the master of the house, who sat atone
end of the table, with Termagant, his favourite
Irish setter, crouched at his feet, and his game-bag
lying on a chair near at hand.

Are you really going to desert us ?" asked
Mopsy, with her sweetest smile.

I am not going to desert you, for I never had the
faintest intention of joining you," answered Leonard
bluntly ; " whether my wife and her friends made
idiots of themselves by playing nursery games in

her drawing-rooms or by skipping about a windy
height on the edge of the sea, is their own affair.
I can take my pleasure elsewhere

"Yes; but you take your pleasure very sadly, as
somebody said of English people generally urged
Mopsy, whose only knowledge of polite literature
was derived from the classical quotations and allusions
in the Daily Telegraph ; " you will be all alone, for
Jack and little Monty have promised to come with us."

I gave them perfect freedom of choice. They
may like that kind of thing. I dont.'"*

Against so firm a resolve argument would have
been vain. Mopsy gave a little sigh, and went on
with her breakfast. She was really sorry for
Leonard, who had been a kind and useful friend
to Jack for the last six years  who had been indeed
the backbone of Jacks resources, without which
that gentleman's pecuniary position would have
collapsed into hopeless limpness. She was quite
sharp-sighted enough to see that the present aspect
of affairs was obnoxious to jNIr. Tregonell  that he
was savagely jealous, yet dared not remonstrate
with his wife.

'' I should have thought he was just the last
mau to put up with anything of that kind'' she
said to Dopsy in their bed-chamber confidences ;
I mean her carrying on with the Baron'

You needn't explain yourself' retorted Dopsy,
'rit's visible to the naked eye. If you or I were
to carry on like that in another woman's house
we should get turned out ; but Mrs. Tregonell is in
her own house and so long as her husband doesn't
see fit to complain "

But when will he see fit ? He stands by and
watches his wife's open flirtation with the Baron,
and lets her go on from bad to worse. He must
see that her very nature is changed since last year,
and yet he makes no attempt to alter her conduct.
He is an absolute worm''

Even the worm will turn at last. You may
depend he will' said Dopsy sententiously.

This was last night's conversation, and now in
the bright fresh October morning, with a delicious
coolness in the clear air, a balmy warmth in the
sunshine, Dopsy and Mopsy were smiling at their
hostess, for whose kindness they could not help

feeling deeply grateful, whatever they might think
of her conduct. They recognized a divided duty 
loyalty to Leonard as their bro terms patron, and
the friend who had first introduced them to this
land of Beulah  gratitude to Mrs. Tregonell, without
whose good graces they could not long have made
their abode here.

' You are not going with us ?' asked Christabel,
carelessly scanning Leonardoss shooting gear, as she
rose from the table and drew on her long mousquetaire
gloves.

No  Im going to shoots

Shall you go to the Sieve ? That's a good place
for woodcock, don't you know ? Jessie Bridgeman
stared aghast at the speaker. *' If you go that
way in the afternoon you may fall in with us : weare
to drink tea at the farms'

'' Perhaps I may go that wayland

now, if every one is ready, we had better
start' said Christabel, looking round at her party.

She wore a tight-fitting jacket, dark olive velvet,
and a cloth skirt, both heavily trimmed with sable,
a beaver hat, with an ostrich feather, which made a

sweeping curve round the brim, and caressed the
coil of golden-brown hair at the back of the small
head. The costume, which was faintly suggestive
of a hunting party at Fontainebleau or St.
Germains became the tall finely moulded figure to
admiration. Nobody could doubt for an instant
that Mrs. Tregonell was dressed for effect, and was
determined to get full value out of her beauty.
The neat tailor gown and simple little cloth toque
of the past, had given way to a costly and elaborate
costume, in which every detail marked the careful
study of the coquette who lives only to be admired.
Dopsy and Mopsy felt a natural pang of envy as
they scrutinized the quality of the cloth and calculated
the cost of the fur; but they consoled themselves
with the conviction that there was a bewitching
Kate Greenaway quaintness in their own flimsy
garments which made up for the poverty of the stuff,
and the doubtful finish of home dressmaking. A
bunch of crimson poppies on Mopsy's shoulder, a
sunflower in Dopsys hat, made vivid gleams of
colour upon their brown merino frocks, while the
freshness of their saffron-tinted Toby frills was undeniable.

Sleeves short and tight and ten-buttoned
Swedish gloves, made up a toilet which Dopsy
and Mopsy had believed to be sesthetioally perfect,
until they compared it with Christabers rich
and picturesque attire. The St. Aubyn girls were
not less conscious of the superiority of Mrs. Trego-
nell's appearance, but they were resigned to the inevitable.
How could a meagre quarterly allowance,
doled out b} an unwilling father, stand against a
wife's unlimited power of running up bills. And here
was a woman who had a fortune of her own to
squander as she pleased, without anybody's leave or
license. Secure in the severity of slate-coloured
serges made by a West-end tailor, with hats to
match, and the best boots and gloves that money
would buy, the St. Aubyn girls affected to despise
ChristabeFs olive velvet and sable tails.

It's the worst possible form to dress like that
for a country ramble' murmured Emily to Clara.

Of course. But the country's about the only
place where she could venture to wear such clothes,"
replied Clara : ' she'd be laughed at in London."

' Well, I don't know : there were some rather

loud get-ups in the Park last seasons said Emily.
*' Its really absurd the way married women out-dress
girls. '

Once clear of the avenue Mrs. Tregonell and her
guests arranged themselves upon the Darwinian
principle of natural selection.

That brilliant bird the Baron, whose velvet coat
and knickerbockers were the astonishment of Bos-castle,
instinctively drew near to Christabel, whose
velvet and sable, plumed hat, and point-lace necktie
pointed her out as his proper mate  Little Monty,
Bohemian and decus, attached himself as naturally
to one of the Yandeleur birds, shunning the iron-grey
respectability of the St. Aubyn breed.

Mrs. St. Aubyn, who had made up her mind at
the last to join the party, fastened herself upon St.
Bernard Faddie, in the fond hope that he would be
able to talk of parish matters, and advise her about
her duties as Lady Bountiful ; while he, on his part,
only cared for rubric and ritual, and looked upon
parish visitation as an inferior branch of duty, to be
performed by newly-fledged curates. Mr. Fits
took up with Dopsy, who amused him as a

marked specimen of nineteenth-century girlhood 
a rare and wonderful bird of its kind like a heavily-wattled
barb pigeons ot beautiful, but infinitely
curious. The two St. Aubyn girls, in a paucity of
the male sex, had to put up with the escort of
Captain Vandeleur, to whom they were extremely
civil, although they studiously ignored his sisters.
And so, by lane and field-path, by hill and vale,
they went up to the broad, open heights above the
sea  a sea that was very fair to look upon on this
sunshiny autumn day, luminous with those translucent
hues of amethyst and emerald, sapphire and
garnet, which make the ever changeful glory of that
Cornish strand.

Miss Bridgeman walked half the way with the
St. Aubyn girls and Captain Vandeleur. The St.
Aubyns had always been civil to her, not without
a certain tone of patronage which would have
wounded a more self-conscious person, but which
Jessie endured with perfect good temper.

' What does it matter if they have the air of
bending down from a higher social level every time
they talk to me,"* she said to Major Bree, lightly,

when he made some rude remark about these young
ladies. ' If it pleases them to fancy themselves on
a pinnacle, the fancy is a harmless one, and can't
hurt me. I shouldn't care to occupy that kind of
imaginary height myself. There must be a disagreeable
sense of chilliness and remoteness; and
then there is always the fear of a sudden drop ; like
that fall through infinite space which startles one
sometimes on the edge of sleep''

Armed with that calm philosophy which takes all
small things lightly, Jessie was quite content that
the Miss St. Aubyns should converse with her as if
she were a creature of an inferior race  born with
lesser hopes and narrower needs than theirs, and
with no rights worth mention. She was content
that they should be sometimes familiar and sometimes
distant  that they should talk to her freely
when there was no one else with whom they could
talk  and that they should ignore her presence when
the room was full.

To-day, Emily St. Aubyn was complaisant even to
friendliness. Her sister had completely appropriated
Captain Vandeleur, so Emily gave herself up to

feminine gossip. There were some subjects which
she really wanted to discuss with Miss Bridgeman,
and this seemed a golden opportunity.

Are we really going to have tea at the farmhouse
near St. Nectans Sieve P"* she asked.

' Didn't you hear Mrs. Tregonell say so V*
inquired Jessie, dryly.

'' I did ; but I could not help wondering a little.
Was it not at the Sieve that poor Mr. Harleigh
was killed ?'

Yes.

'' Don't you think it just a little heartless of Mrs.
Tregonell to choose that spot for a pleasure party V

The farmhouse is not the Sieve : they are at
least a mile apart."

That's a mere quibble. Miss Bridgeman : the
association is just the same, and she ought to
feel it."

Mrs. Tregonell is my very dear friend''
answered Jessie. " She and her aunt are the only
friends I have made in this world. You can't
suppose that I shall find fault with her
conduct ?"

 Noj I suppose not. You would stand by her
through thick and thin T'

'' Through thick and thin'

Even at the sacrifice of principle V

I should consider gratitude and friendship the
governing principles of my life where she is concerned."


If she were to go ever so wrongs you would
still stand by her ?"

Stand by hers and cleave to her  walk by her
side till death, wherever the path might lead. I
should not encourage her in wrong-doing. I should
lift up my voice when there was need : but I should
never forsake her''

' That is your idea of friendship ?"

'' Unquestionably. To my mind, friendship
which implies anything less than that is meaningless.
However, there is no need for heroics : Mrs.
Tregonell is not going to put me to the test."

I hope not. She is very sweet. I should be
deeply pained if she were to go wrong. But do you
know that my mother does not at all like her
manner with the Baron. My sister and I are much

VOL. III. p

more liberal-minded; don't you know ; and we can
understand that all she says and does is mere
frivolity  high spirits which must find some outlet.
But what surprises me is that she should be so gay
and light-hearted after the dreadful events of her
life. If such things had happened to me, I should
inevitably have gone over to Rome, and buried
myself in the severest conventual order that I could
finds

Yes, there have been sad events in her life :
but I think she chose the wiser course in doing
her duty by the aunt who brought her up, than in
self-immolation of that kind' answered Jessie, with
her thin lips drawn to the firmest line they were
capable of assuming.

But think what she must have suffered last
year when that poor man was killed. I remember
meeting him at dinner when they were first engaged.
Such an interesting face  the countenance of a
poet. I could fancy Shelley or Keats exactly
like him.'

We have their portraits'' said Jessie, intolerant
of gush. " There is no scope for fancy."

' But I think lie really was a little like Keats 
consumptive looking, too, which carried out the idea.
How utterly dreadful it must have been for Mrs.
Tregonell when he met his deaths so suddenly, so
awfully, while he was a guest under her roof. How
did she bear it ?*'

Very quietly. She had borne the pain of
breaking her engagement for a principle, a mistaken
one, as I think. His death could hardly have given
her worse pains

' But it was such an awful deaths'

"Awful in its suddenness, that is all  not more
awful than the death of any one of our English
soldiers who fell in Zululand the other day. After
all, the mode and manner of death is only a detail,
and, so long as the physical pain is not severe, an
insignificant detail. The one stupendous fact for
the survivor remains always the same We had
a friend and he is gone  for ever, for all we
know."

There was the faint sound of a sob in her voice
as she finished speaking.

"Well, all I can say is that if I were Mrs.

p2

Tregonell,, I could never have been happy agaiD/'
persisted Miss St. Aubyn.

They came to Trevena soon after this and went
down the hill to the base of that lofty crag on which
King Arthur's Castle stood. They found Mrs.
Fairfax and the pony-carriage in the Valley. The
provisions had all been carried up the ascent.
Everything was ready for luncheon.

A quarter of a hour later they were all seated on
the long grass and the crumbling stones, on which
Christabel and her lover had sat so often in that
happy season of her life when love was a new
thought, and faith in the beloved one as boundless
as that far-reaching ocean, on which they gazed in
dreamy content. Now, instead of low talk about
Arthur and Guinevere, Tristan and Iseult, and all
the legends of the dim poetic past, there were loud
voices and laughter, execrable puns, much conversation
of the order generally known as chaff, a great
deal of mild personality of that kind which, in the
age of Miss Burney and Miss Austin, was described
as quizzing and roasting, and an all-pervading
flavour of lunacy. The Baron de Cazalet tried to

take advantage of the position, and to rise to poetry ;
but he was laughed down by the majority, especially
by Mr. FitzJessie, who hadn't a good word for
Arthur and his Court.

' Marc was a coward, and Tristan was a traitor
and a knave' he said. ' While as for Iseult, the
less said of her the better. The legends of Arthur's
birth are cleverly contrived to rehabilitate his mother's
character, but the lady's reputation still is open to
doubt. Jack the Giant Killer and Tom Thumb are
quite the most respectable heroes connected with
this western world. You have no occasion to be
proud of the associations of the soil, Mrs. Tregonell.''

But I am proud of my country, and of its
legends," answered Christabel.

' And you believe in Tristan and Iseult, and the
constancy which was personified by a bramble, as in
the famous ballad of Lord Lovel."

The constancy which proved itself by marrying
somebody else, and remaining true to the old love
all the same," said Mrs. Fairfax Torrington, in her
society voice, trained to desolate sharp sentences
across the subdued buzz of a dinner-table.

Poor Tristan sighed Dopsy.

Poor Iseult/ murmured Mopsy.

They had never heard of either personage until
this morning.

' Nothing in the life of either became them so
well as the leaving it/ said Mr. Fitz Jessie. ' The
crowning touch of poetry in Iseults death redeems
her errors. You remember how she was led half
senseless to Tristan's death-chamber  lors Vembrasse
de ses bras, tant connie tile pent, et cette hung souspir,
et se paste sur le corps j et le cueur lui party et Vdme
seen va."

If every woman who loses her lover could die
like that' said Jessie with a curious glance at
Christabel, who sat listening smilingly to the conversation,
with the Baron prostrate at her feet.

Instead of making good her loss at the earliest
opportunity, what a dreary place this world would
be' murmured little Monty. " I think somebody in
the poetic line has observed that nothing in Nature
is constant, so it would be hard lines upon women if
they were to be fettered for life by some early
attachment that came to a bad end."

Look at Juliet constancy said Miss St.
Aubyn.

Juliet was never put to the tests answered
Fitz Jesse. " The whole course of her love affair
was something less than a week. If that potion of
hers had failed and she had awakened safe and
sound in her own bedchamber next morning, who
knows that she would not have submitted to the force
of circumstances, married County Paris, and lived
happily with him ever after. There is only one
perfect example of constancy in the whole realm of
poetry,, and that is the love of Paolo and Francesca,
the love which even the pains of hell could not
dissevered

They weren't married, don't you knows lisped
Monty. ' They hadn't had the opportunity of
getting tired of each other. And then, in the underworld,
a lady would be glad to take up with somebody
she had known on earth : just as in Australia
one is delighted to fall in with a fellow one wouldn't
care twopence for in Bond Streets

I believe you are rights' said Mr. FitzJesse,
' and that constancy is only another name for convenience.

Married people are constant to each
other, as a rule, because there is such an infernal
row when they fall out'

Lightly flew the moments in the balmy air,
freshened by the salt sea, warmed by the glory of a
meridian sun  lightly and happily for that wise
majority of the revellers, whose philosophy is to
get the most out of to-day's fair summer-time, and
to leave future winters and possible calamities to
Jove's discretion. Jessie watched the girl who had
grown up by her side, whose every thought she had
once known, and wondered if this beautiful artificial
impersonation of society tones and society graces
could be verily the same flesh and blood. What
had made this wondrous transformation? Had
ChristabeFs very soul undergone a change during
that dismal period of apathy last winter ? She had
awakened from that catalepsy of despair a new
woman  eager for frivolous pleasures  courting
admiration  studious of effect : the very opposite
of that high-souled and pure-minded girl whom
Jessie had known and loved.

It is the most awful moral wreck that was ever

seen/ thought Jessie ; ' but if my love can save
her from deeper degradation she shall be saved

Could she care for that showy impostor posed
at her feet, gazing up at her with passionate eyes
hanging on her accents  openly worshipping her?
She seemed to accept his idolatry, to sanction his
insolence ; and all her friends looked on, half
scornful, half amused.

What can Tregonell be thinking about not to
be here to-day T' said Jack Vandeleur, close to
Jessie's elbow.

Why should he be here T' she asked.

Because he's wanted. He's neglecting that
silly woman shamefully."

It is only his way," answered Jessie, scornfully.
' Last year he invited Mr. Harleigh to
Mount Ptoyal, who had been engaged to his wife a
few years before. He is not given to jealousy''

Evidently not," said Captain Vandeleur,
waxing thoughtful, as he lighted a cigarette, and
strolled slowly off to stare at the sea, the rocky pinnacles,
and yonder cormorant skimming away from
a sharp point, to dip and vanish in the green water.

The pilgrimage from Trevena to Brevity farm
was somewhat less straggling than the long walk by
the cliffs. The way was along a high road, which
necessitated less meandering, but the party still
divided itself into twos and threes, and Christabel
still allowed de Cazalet the privilege of a tete-astute.
She was a better walker than any of her friends,
and the Baron was a practised pedestrian ; so those
two kept well ahead, leaving the rest of the party
to follow as they pleased.

'' I wonder they are not tired of each other by
this times"* said Mopsy, whose Nuremberg heels
were beginning to tell upon her temper.  It has
been such a long day  and such a long walk.
AVhat can the Baron find to talk about all this
time V

Himselfe answered FitzJesse,  an inexhaustible
subject. Men can always talk. Listening is
the art in which they fail. Are you a good listener.
Miss Vandeleur ?"

Tm afraid not. If any one is prosy I begin to
think of my frocks. 

'every bad. As a young woman, with the

conquest of society before you I most earnestly
recommend you to cultivate the listener's art.
Talk just enough to develop your companion's
powers. If he has a hobby, let him ride it. Be
interested,, be sympathetic. Do not always agree, but
differ only to be convinced, argue only to be
converted. Never answer at random, or stifle a
yawn. Be a perfect listener, and society is open to
you. People will talk of you as the most intelligent
girl they know''

Mopsy smiled a sickly smile. The agony of
those ready-made boots, just a quarter of a size too
small, though they had seemed so comfortable in the
shoemaker's shop, was increasing momentarily. Here
was a hill like the side of a house to be descended.
Poor Mopsy felt as if she were balancing herself on
the points of her toes. She leant feebly on her
umbrella, while the editor of the Sling trudged
sturdily by her side admiring the landscape 
stopping half-way down the hill to point out the
grander features of the scene with his bamboo.
Stopping was ever so much worse than going on. It
was as if the fires consuming the martyr at the

stake had suddenly gone out and left him with an
acuter consciousness of his pain.

' Too, too lovely murmured Mopsy, heartily
wishing herself in the King's Road, Chelsea, within
hail of an omnibus.

She hobbled on somehow, pretending to listen to
Mr. Fitz Jesse's conversation, but feeling that she
was momentarily demonstrating her incompetence
as a listener, till they came to the farm, where she
was just able to totter into the sitting-room, and
sink into the nearest chair.

Vm afraid you're tired," said the journalist, a
sturdy block of a man, who hardly knew the meaning
of fatigue.

I am just a little tired," she faltered hypocritically,
"but it has been a lovely walk."

They were the last to arrive. The teachings
were ready upon a table covered with snowy damask
a substantial tea, including home-made loaves,
saffron coloured cakes, jam, marmalade, and cream.
But there was no one in the room except Mrs. Fairfax
Torrington, who had enthroned herself in the most
comfortable chair, by the side of the cheerful fire.

All the rest of our people have gone straggling
off to look at things she said " some to the Sieve
and as that is a mile off we shall have ever so
long to wait for our tea'

Do you think we need wait very long V asked
Mopsy whose head was aching from the effects of
midday champagne;  would it be so very bad if
we were to ask for a cup of tea'

I am positively longing for tea' said Mrs.
Torrington to FitzJesse ignoring Mopsy.

Then I'll ask the farm people to brew a special
pot for you two' answered the journalist, ringing
the bell. ' Here comes Mr. Tregonell, game-bag,
dogs, and all. This is more friendly than I expected."

Leonard strolled across the little quadrangular
garden, and came in at the low door, as Mr. Fitz
Jesse spoke.

I thought I should find some of you here' he
said; * where are the others?"

Gone to the Sieve, most of them," answered
Mrs. Torrington briskly. Her freshness contrasted
cruelly with Mopsy's limp and exhausted condition.
' At least I know your wife and de Cazalet were

bent on going there. She had promised to show the
waterfall. We were just debating whether we ought
to wait tea for themes

 I wouldn't, if I were you' said Leonard. " No
doubt they'll take their time'

He flung down his game-bag, took up his hat,
whistled to his dogs, and went towards the door.

' Won't you stop and have some tea  just
to keep us in countenance ?" asked Mrs. Torrington.

' No, thanks. I'd rather have it later. I'll go
and meet the others."

If he ever intended to look after her it was
certainly time he should begin' said the widow,
when the door was shut upon her host. " Please
ring again, Mr. FitzJesse. How slow these farm
people are ! Do they suppose we have come hereto
stare at cups and saucers ?"

CHAPTER XI.

BITTER AND SUC]

Leonard Tregonell went slowly up the steep narrow
lane with his dogs at his heels. It was a year
since he had been this way. Good as the cover
round about the waterfall was said to be for woodcocks
he had carefully avoided the spot this season,,
and his friends had been constrained to defer to his
superior wisdom as a son of the soil. He had gone
farther afield for his sport and as there had been
no lack of birds, his guests had no reason for
complaint. Yet Jack Vandeleur had said more
than once '' I wonder you don't try the Sieve. We
shot a lot of birds there last years

for the first time since that departed autumn
he went up the hill to one of the happy hunting-grounds
of his boyhood. The place where he had
fished, and shot, and trapped birds, and hunted
water-rats, and climbed and torn his clothes in the

careless schoolboy days when his conception of a
perfectly blissful existence came as near as possible
to the life of a North American Indian. He had
always detested polite society and book-learning ;
but he had been shrewd enough and quick enough
at learning the arts he loved :  gunnery  angling
veterinary surgery.

He met a group of people near the top of the
hill  all the party except Christabel and the Baron.
One glance showed him that these two were missing
from the cluster of men and women crowding
through the gate that opened into the lane.

The waterfall is quite a shabby affairs said
Miss St. Aubyn ; ' there has been so little rain lately,
I felt ashamed to show Mr. Faddie such a poor little
dribble.

We are all going back to tea'' explained her
mother. " I don't know what has become of Mrs.
Tregonell and the Baron, but I suppose they are
loitering about somewhere. Perhaps you'll tell
them we have all gone on to the farms'

Yes, ril send them after you. I told my wife
Vd meet her at the Sieve, if I couldst''

He passed them and ran across the ploughed
field, while the others went down the hill, talking
and laughing. He heard the sound of their voices
and that light laughter dying away on the still air
as the distance widened between him and them ; and
he wondered if they were talking of his wife, and of
his seeming indifference to her folly. The crisis
had come. He had watched her in blank amazement,
hardly able to believe his own senses, to realize the
possibility of guilt on the part of one whose very
perfection had galled him ; and now he told himself
there was no doubt of her folly, no doubt that this
tinselly pretender had fascinated her, and that she
was on the verge of destruction. No woman could
outrage propriety as she had been doing of late, and
yet escape danger. The business must be stopped
somehow, even if he were forced to kick the Baron
out of doors, in order to make an end of the entanglement.
And then, what if she were to lift up
her voice, and accuse him  if she were to turn that
knowledgewhichhesuspected her of possessing, against
him ? What then ? He must face the situation, and
pay the penalty of what he had done. That was all.

VOL. III. Q

It canst much matter what becomes of me' he
said to himself.  I have never had an hour's real
happiness since I married her. She warned me
that it would be so  warned me against my own
jealous temper  but I wouldn't listen to her. I had
my own way."

Could she care for that man ? Could she ? In
spite of the coarseness of his own nature, there was
in Leonard's mind a deep-rooted conviction of his
wife's purity,, which was stronger even than the
evidence of actual facts. Even now, although the
time had come when he must act, he had a strange
confused feeling, like a man whose brain is under
the influence of some narcotic, which makes him see
things that are not. He felt as in some hideous
dream  long-involved  a maze of delusion and
bedevilment, from which there was no escape.

He went down into the hollow. The high wooden
gate stood wide open  evidence that there was
some one lingering below. The leaves were still
on the trees, the broad feathery ferns were still
green. There was a low yellow light gleaming
behind the ridge of rock and the steep earthy slope

above. The rush of the water sounded loud and clear
in the silence.

Leonard crept cautiously down the winding
moss-grown tracks holding his dogs behind him ina
leash, and constraining those well-mannered brutes
to perfect quiet. He looked down into the deep
hollow through which the water runs and over
which there is that narrow foot bridge, whence the
waterfall is seen in all its beauty  an arc of silvery
light cleaving the dark rock above and flashing
down to the dark rock below.

Christabel was standing on the bridge, with
de Cazalet at her side. They were not looking up at
the waterfall. Their faces were turned the other
way, to the rocky river bed, fringed with fern and
wild rank growth of briar and weed. The Baron
was talking earnestly, his head bent over Christabel,
till it seemed to those furious eyes staring between
the leafage, as if his lips must be touching her face.
His hand clasped hers. That was plain enough.

Just then the spaniel stirred, and rustled the dank
dead leaves  Christabel started, and looked up
towards the trees that screened her husband's figure.

A guilty start , a guilty look, Leonard thought.
But those eyes of hers could not pierce the leafy
screen, and they drooped again,, looking downward
at the water beneath her feet. She stood in a
listening attitude, as if her whole being hung upon
de Cazalets words.

What was he pleading so intensely? What was
that honeyed speech, to which the false wife listened,
unresisting, motionless as the bird spell-bound by
the snake. So might Eve have listened to the first
tempter. In just such an attitude, with just such
an expression, every muscle relaxed, the head
gently drooping, the eyelids lowered, a tender
smile curving the lips  the first tempted wife
might have hearkened to the silver sweet tones of
her seducer.

Devil V muttered Leonard between his clenched
teeth.

Even in the agony of his rage  rage at finding
that this open folly, which he had pretended not to
see, had been but the light and airy prelude to the
dark theme of secret guilt  that wrong which he
felt most deeply was his wife's falsehood to herself

her wilful debasement of her own noble character.
He had known hers and believed in her as
perfect and pure among women,, and now he saw her
deliberately renouncing all claim to manes respect,
lowering herself to the level of the women who
can be tempted. He had believed her invulnerable.
It was as if Diana herself had gone astray  as if
the very ideal and archetype of purity among women
had become perverted.

He stood, breathless almost, holding back his
dogs, gazing, listening with as much intensity as if
only the senses of hearing and sight lived in him 
and all the rest were extinct. He saw the Baron
draw nearer and nearer as he urged his prayer  who
could doubt the nature of that prayer  until the
two figures were posed in one perfect harmonious
whole, and then his arm stole gently round the
slender waist.

Christabel sprang away from him with a coy laugh.

Not now,"* she said, in a clear voice, so distinct
as to reach that listener's cars. " I can answer
nothing now. To-morrow."

But, my soul, why delay ?'"'

To-morrow she repeated ; and then she cried
suddenly,, ' hark ! there is some one close by. Did
you not hear ?"

There had been no sound but the waterfall  not
even the faintest rustle of a leaf. The two dogs
crouched submissively at their master's feet, while
that master himself stood motionless as a stone
figure.

I must go"* cried Christabel. '* Think how
long we have stayed behind the others. We shall
set people wondering."

She sprang lightly from the bridge to the bank,
and came quickly up the rocky path, a narrow
winding track, which closely skirted the spot where
Leonard stood concealed by the broad leaves of a
chestnut. She might almost have heard his hurried
breathing, she might almost have seen the lurid
eyes of his dogs, gleaming athwart the rank undergrowth
; but she stepped lightly past, and vanished
from the watchers sight.

De Cazalet followed.

Christabel, stop," he exclaimed ; " I must have
your answer now. My fate hangs upon your words.

You cannot mean to throw me over. I have planned
everything. In three days we shall be at Perth 
secure from all pursuit. 

He was following in Christabels track, but he was
not swift enough to overtake her, being at some
disadvantage upon that slippery way, where the
moss-grown slabs of rock offered a very insecure
footing. As he spoke the last words, ChristabeFs
figure disappeared among the trees upon the higher
ground above him, and a broad herculean hand
shot out of the leafy background, and pinioned
him.

Scoundrel  profligate  impostor !  hissed a
voice in his ear, and Leonard Tregonell stood before
him  white, panting, with flecks of foam upon his
livid lips. " Devil ! you have corrupted and seduced
the purest woman that ever lived. You shall
answer to me  her husband  for your infamy.'

' Oh ! is that your tune V exclaimed the Baron,
wrenching his arm from that iron grip. They were
both powerful men  fairly matched in physical force,
cool, hardened by rough living. " Is that your
game ? I thought you didn't minds

.you dastardly villain what did you take me

for r

A common product of nineteenth-century
civilization' answered the other, coolly. " One of
those liberal-minded husbands who allow their
wives as wide a license as they claim for themselves'


* Liar' cried Leonard rushing at him with his
clenched fist raised to strike.

The Baron caught him by the wrist  held him
with fingers of iron.

' Take care' he said. " Two can play at that
game. If it comes to knocking a man's front teeth
down his throat J may as well tell you that I have
given the 'Frisco dentists a good bit of work in my
time. You forget that there's no experience of a
rough-and-ready life that you have had which I
have not gone through twice over. If I had you in
Colorado we'd soon wipe off this little score with a
brace of revolvers."

Let Cornwall be Colorado for the nonce. We
could meet here as easily as we could meet in any
quiet nook across the Channel, or in the wilds of

America. No time like the present  no spot better
than this."

If we had only the barkers/ said de Cazalet,
but unluckily we haven't."

V\\ meet you here tomorrow at daybreak  say,
sharp seven. We can arrange about the pistols tonight.
Vandeleur will come with me  heM run
any risk to serve me  and I daresay you could get
little Monty to do as much for you. He's a good
plucked one."

'' Do you mean it ?"

Unquestionably."

"V/iry well. Tell Vandeleur what you mean,,
and let him settle the details. In the meantime we
can take things quietly before the ladies. There is
no need to scare any of them."

I am not going to scare them. Down, Termagant,"
said Leonard to the Irish setter, as the low
light branches of a neighbouring tree were suddenly
stirred, and a few withered leaves drifted down from
the rugged bank above the spot where the two men
were standing.

Well, I suppose you're a pretty good shot,"

said the Baron coolly taking out his cigar-cases *'so
therein be no disparity. By-the-by there was a
man killed here last year, I heard  a former rival
of yours''

Yes, there was a man killed here," answered
Leonard, walking slowly on.

Perhaps you killed him ?"

I did," answered Leonard, turning upon him
suddenly. " I killed him : as I hope to kill you : as
I would kill any man who tried to come between me
and the woman I loved. He was a gentleman, and
I am sorry for him. He fired in the air, and made
me feel like a murderer. He knew how to make
that last score. I have never had a peaceful moment
since I saw him fall, face downward, on that broad
slab of rock on the other side of the bridge. You
see I am not afraid of you, or I should tell you
this."

' I suspected as much from the time I heard the
story," said de Cazalet. ' I rarely believe in those
convenient accidents which so often dispose of
inconvenient people. But don't you think it might
be better for you if we were to choose a different

spot for to-sorrows meeting ? Two of your rivals
settled in the same gully might look suspicious  for
I dare say you intend to kill me."

I shall try' answered Leonard.

' Then suppose we were to meet on those sands
Trebarwith Sands, I think you call the place. Not
much fear of interruption there, I should think, at
seven o'clock in the morning""

You can settle that and everything else with
Vandeleur/' said Leonard, striding ois with his dogs,
and leaving the Baron to follow at his leisure.

De Cazalet walked slowly back to the farm,
meditating deeply.

"It's devilish unlucky that this should have happened,"
he said to himself. "An hour ago everything
was going on velvet. We might have got quietly away
tomorrow  for I know she meant to go, cleverly as
she fenced with me just now  and left my gentleman
to his legal remedy, which would have secured
the lady and her fortune to me, as soon as the
Divorce Court business was over. He would have
followed us with the idea of fighting, no doubt, but
I should have known how to give him the slip. And

then we should have started in life with a clean
slate. Now there must be no end of a row. If I
kill him it will be difficult to get away  and if I
bolt, how am I to be sure of the lady ? Will she
come to my lure when I call her ? Will she go
away with me, tomorrow ? Yes, that will be my
only chance. I must get her to promise to meet
me at Bodmin Road Station in time for the
Plymouth train  there's one starts at eleven. I can
drive from Trebarwith to Bodmin with a good horse,
take her straight through to London, and from
London by the first available express to Edinburgh.
She shall know nothing of what has happened till
we are in Scotland, and then I can tell her that she
is a free woman, and my wife by the Scottish law,
a bond which she can make as secure as she likes
by legal and religious ceremonies."

The Baron had enough insight into the feminine
character to know that a woman who has leisure for
deliberation upon the verge of ruin is not very likely
to make the fatal plunge. The boldly, deliberately
bad are the rare exceptions among womankind. The
women who err are for the most part hustled and

hurried into wrong-doing  hemmed round and beset
by conflicting interests  bewildered and confused by
false reasoning  whirled in the Maelstrom of passion,
helpless as the hunted hare.

The Baron had pleaded his cause eloquently, as he
thought  had won Christabel almost to consent to
elope with him  but not quite. She had seemed
so near yielding, yet had not yielded. She had
asked for time  time to reflect upon the fatal step
and reflection was just that one privilege which
must not be allowed to her. Strange, he thought
that not once had she spoken of her son, the wrong
she must inflict upon him, her agony at having to
part with him. Beautiful, fascinating although he
deemed her  proud as he felt at having subjugated
so lovely a victim, it seemed to de Cazalet that
there was something hard and desperate about her 
as of a woman who went wrong deliberately and of
set purpose. Yet on the brink of ruin she drew
back, and was not to be moved by any special
pleading of his to consent to an immediate elopement.
Vainly had he argued that the time had
come  that people were beginning to look askance

that her husbands suspicions might be aroused
at any moment. She had been rock in her resistance
of these arguments. But her consent to an
early flight must now be extorted from her. Delay
or hesitation now might be fatal. If he killed his
man  and he had little doubt in his own mind
that he should kill him  it was essential that his
flight should be instant. The days were past when
juries were disposed to look leniently upon gentlemanly
homicide. If he were caught red-handed
the penalty of his crime would be no light one.

I was a fool to consent to such a wild plans
he told himself. " I ought to have insisted upon
meeting him on the other side of the Channel. But
to draw back now might look bad , and would
lessen my chance with her. No ; there is no alternative
course. I must dispose of him and get her
away, without the loss of an hours''

The whole business had to be thought out carefully.
His intent was deadly, and he planned this
duel with as much wicked deliberation as if he had
been planning a murder. He had lived among men
who held all human life except their own, lightly.

and to whom duelling and assassination were among
# the possibilities of every day existence. He thought
how if he and the three other men could reach that
lonely bend of the coast unobserved, they might
leave the man who should fall lying on the sand , with
never an indication to point how he fell.

De Cazalet felt that in Vandeleur there was a
man to be trusted. He would not betray, even
though his friend were left there, dead upon the
low level sand waste, for the tide to roll over him
and hide him, and wrap the secret of his doom in
eternal silence. There was something of the freebooter
in Jack Vandeleur  an 
kind of spirit  which the soul of that other
freebooter recognized and understood.

'ewe don't want little Montagu'' thought de
Cazalet. " One man will be second enough to see
fair-play. The fuss and formality of the thing can
be dispensed with. That little beggar's ideas are
too insular  he might round upon me."

So meditating upon the details of tomorrow, the
Baron went down the hill to the farm, where he
found the Mount Royal party just setting out on

their homeward journey under the shades of evening,
stars shining faintly in the blue infinite above them.
Leonard was not among his wife's guests nor had
he been seen by any of them since they met him at
the field-gate, an hour ago.

He has made tracks for home, no doubt," said
Jack Vandeleur.

They went across the fields, and by the common
beyond Trevalga  walking briskly, talking merrily,
in the cool evening air ; all except Mopsy, from
whose high-heeled boots there was no surcease of
pain. Alas ! those Nuremberg heels, and the boots
just half a size too small for the wearer, for how
many a bitter hour of woman's life have they to
answer !

De Cazalet tried in vain during that homeward
walk to get confidential speech with Christabel  he
was eager to urge his new plan  the departure from
Bodmin Road Station  but she was always surrounded.
He fancied even that she made it her
business to avoid him.

Coquettes' he muttered to himself savagely.
' They are all alike. I thought she was a little

better than the rest; but they are all ground
in the same mill'

He could scarcely get a glimpse of her face in
the twilight. She was always a little way ahead,
or a little way behind him  now with Jessie Bridgeman,
now with Emily St. Aubyn  skimming over
the rough heathy ground, flitting from group to
group. When they entered the house she disappeared
almost instantly, leaving her guests lingering
in the hall, too tired to repair at once to
their own rooms, content to loiter in the glow and
warmth of the wood fires. It was seven o'clock.
They had been out nearly nine hours.

' What a dreadfully long day it has been !'' exclaimed
Emily St. Aubyn, with a stifled yawn.

' Isn't that the usual remark after a pleasure
party V' demanded Mr. Fitz Jesse. " I have found
the unfailing result of any elaborate arrangement
for human felicity to be an abnormal lengthening
of the hours ; just as every strenuous endeavour to
accomplish some good work for one's fellow-men
infallibly provokes the enmity of the class to be
benefited.'

VOL. III. X

Oh it has all been awfully enjoyable, don't you
knows said Miss St. Aubyn ; ' and it was very
sweet of Mrs. Tregonell to give ns such a delightful
day ; but I can help feeling as if we had been
out a week. And now we have to dress for dinner,
which is rather a trial."

Why not sit down as you are ? Let us have
a tailor-gown and shooting-jacket dinner, as a
variety upon a calico ball," suggested little Monty.

'' Impossible ! We should feel dirty and horrid'
said Miss St. Aubyn. " The freshness and purity
of the dinner table would make us ashamed of
our greediness. Besides, however could we face
the servants ? No, the effort must be made.
Come, mother, you really look as if you wanted
to be carried upstairs."

"By voluntary contributions," murmured Fits
aside to Miss Bridgeman. " Briareus himself
could not do it single-handed, as one of our
vivacious Home Rulers might say."

The Baron de Cazalet did not appear in the
drawing-room an hour later when the house-party
assembled for dinner. He sent his hostess a little

note apologizing for his absence on the ground of
important business letters, which must be answered
that night ; though why a man should sit down at
eight o'clock in the evening to write letters for a
post which would not leave Boscastle till the following
afternoon, was rather difficult for any one to
understand.

All humbug about those letters, you may
depends said little Monty, who looked as fresh asa
daisy in his smooth expanse of shirt-front, with a
single diamond stud in the middle of it, like a
lighthouse in a calm sea. " The Baron was fairly
done  athlete as he pretends to be  hadn't a leg to
stand upon  came in limping. 1 wouldn't mind
giving long odds that he won't show till tomorrow
afternoon. It's a case of gruel and bandages for
the next twenty-four hours."

Leonard came into the drawing-room just intime
to give his arm to Mrs. St. Aubyn. He made
himself more agreeable than usual at dinner, as it
seemed to that worthy matron  talked more 
laughed louder  and certainly drank more than
his wont. The dinner was remarkably lively, in

K 2

spite of the Baron's absence ; indeed the conversation
took a new and livelier turn upon
that account for everybody had something more
or less amusing to say about the absent one
stimulated and egged on with quiet malice by
Mr. Fitz Jesse. Anecdotes were told of his self-assurances
his vanity, his pretentiousne|. His
pedigree was discussed , and settled for  his antecedents
 his married life, were all submitted to the
process of conversational vivisection.

' Rather rough on Mrs. Tregonell, isn't it ?" murmured
little Monty to the fair Dopsy.

Do you think she really cares ?" Dopsy asked,
incredulously.

'' Don't you ?"

'' Not a straw. She could not care for such a
man as that, after being engaged to Mr. Hamleigh.'

 Harleigh was better form, I admit  and I
used to think Mrs. T. as straight as an arrow. But
I confess I've been staggered lately.'

Did you see what a calm queenly look she had
all the time people were laughing at de Cazalet ?''
asked Dopsy. "A woman who cared one little

bit for a man could not have taken it so
quietly

You think she must have flamed out  said
something in defence of her admirer. You forget
your Tennyson, and how Guinevere ' marred her
friends point with pale tranquillity Women are
so deuced deeps

l T>mx Tennyson murmured Dopsy, whose
knowledge of the Laureate's works had not gone
very far beyond The May Queens and "The
Charge of the Six Hundred'

It was growing late in the evening when de
Cazalet showed himself. The drawing-room party
had been in very fair spirits without him, but it was
a smaller and a quieter party than usual ; for Leonard
had taken Captain Vandeleur off to his own den
after dinner, and Mr. Montagu had offered to playa
fifty game, left-handed, against the combined
strength of Dopsy and Mopsy. Christabel
had been at the piano almost all the evening,
playing with a breadth and grandeur which seemed
to rise above her usual style. The ladies made a
circle in front of the fire, with Mr. Faddie and Mr.

FitzJesse, talking and laughing in a subdued tone?
while those grand harmonies of Beethoven rose
and fell upon their half indifferent, half admiring
ears.

Christabel played the closing chords of the
Funeral March of a Hero as de Cazalet entered the
room. He went straight to the piano, and seated
himself in the empty chair by her side. She glided
into the melancholy arpeggios of the Moonlight
Sonata, without looking up from the keys. They
were a long way from the group at the fire  all the
length of the room lay in deep shadow between the
lamps on the mantelpiece and neighbouring tables,
and the candles upon the piano. Pianissimo music
seemed to invite conversation.

You have written your letters ?" she asked
lightly.

*' My letters were a fiction  I did not want to
sit face to face with your husband at dinner, after
our conversation this afternoon at the waterfall ;
you can understand that, can you Christabel.
Don't  don't do that''

"What?" she asked, still looking down at the keys.

' Don't shudder when 1 call you by your Christian
name  as you did just now. Christabel, I
want your answer to my question of to-day. I told
you then that the crisis of our fate had come. I
tell you so again to-night  more earnestly, if it is
possible to be more in earnest than I was to-day. I
am obliged to speak to you here  almost within earshot
of those people  because time is short, and I
must take the first chance that offers. It has been
my accursed luck never to be with you alone  I
think this afternoon was the first time that you and
I have been together alone since I came here. You.
don't know how hard it has been for me to keep
every word and look within check  always to
remember that we were before an audience."

' Yes, there has been a good deal of acting' she
answered quietly.

But there must be no more acting  no more
falsehood. We have both made up our minds, have
we not, my beloved ? I think you love me  yes,
Christabel, I feel secure of your love. You did not
deny it to-day, when I asked that thrilling question
those hidden eyes, the conscious droop of that

proud head were more eloquent than words. And
for my love Christabel  no words can speak that.
It shall be told by and-by in language that all the
world can understand  told by my deeds. The time
has come for decision ; I have had news to-day that
renders instant action necessary. If you and I do
not leave Cornwall together tomorrow, we may be
parted for ever. Have you made up your mind ?"

'' Hardly she answered, her fingers still slowly
moving over the keys in those plaintive arpeggios.

What is your difficulty, dearest ? Do you
fear to face the future with me T'

'' I have not thought of the future.

Is it the idea of leaving your child that distresses

you?

I have not thought of him/

Then it is my truth  my devotion which you
doubt ?'

Give me a little more time for thoughts she
said, still playing the same sotto voce accompaniment
to their speech.

''I dare not; everything must be planned to-night.
I must leave this house early tomorrow morning.

There are imperative reasons wliicli oblige me to do
so. You must meet me at Bodmin Road Station at
eleven  you must, Christabel if our lives are to be
free and happy and spent together. Vacillation on
your part will ruin all my plans. Trust yourself tome,
dearest  trust my power to secure a bright and
happy future. If you do not want to be parted
from your boy, take him with you. He shall be my
son. I will hold him for you against all the worlds

You must leave this house early tomorrow
morning," she said, looking up at him for the first
time. " Why V

For a reason which I cannot tell you. It is a
business in which some one else is involved, and I
am not free to disclose it yet. You shall know all
later''

You will tell me, when we meet at Bodmin
Road''

' Yes. Ah, then you have made up your mind 
you will be there. My best and dearest. Heaven
bless you for that sweet consent."

Had we not better leave Heaven out of the
question ?" she said with a mocking smile ; and then

slowly, gravely, deliberately, she said, ' Yes, I will
meet you at eleven o clock tomorrow, at Bodmin
Road Station  and you will tell me all that has
happened

What secret can I withhold from you, love  
my second self  the fairer half of my soul ?"

Urgently as he had pleaded his cause, certain ashe
had been of ultimate success, he was almost overcome
by her yielding. It seemed as if a fortress
which a moment before had stood up between him
and the sky  massive  invincible  the very type
of the impregnable and everlasting, had suddenly
crumbled into ruin at his feet. His belief in
woman's pride and purity had never been very
strong : yet he had believed that here and therein
this sinful world, invincible purity was to be
found. But now he could never believe in any
woman again. He had believed in this one to the
last, although he had set himself to win her. Even
when he had been breathing the poison of his florid
eloquence into her ear  even when she had smiled
at him, a willing listener  there had been something
in her look,some sublime inexpressible air of stainless

womanhood which had made an impassable distance
between them. And now she had consented to runaway
with him : she had sunk in one moment to
the level of all disloyal wives. His breast thrilled
with pride and triumph at the thought of his conquest
: and yet there was a touch of shame, shame
that she could so fall.

Emily St. Aubyn came over to the piano, and
made an end of all confidential talk.

Now you are both here do give us that delicious
little duet of Lecocqs/' she said : " we want something
cheerful before we disperse. Good gracious
Mrs. Tregonell, how bad you looks cried the young
lady, suddenly , " as white as a ghosts'

I am tired to deaths answered Christabel, " I
could not sing a note for the world. 

'* Really, then we mustn't worry you. Thanks
so much for that lovely Beethoven music  the
Andante '  or the ' Pastorale '  or the ' 
was it not ? So sweets

Good-nights said Christabel. " You won't think
me rude if I am the first to go ?"

Not at all. We are all going. Pack up your

wools mother. I know you have only been pretending
to knit. We are all half asleep. I believe we
have hardly strength to crawl upstairs.

Candles were lighted,, and Mrs. Tregonell and her
guests dispersed, the party from the billiard-room
meeting them in the hall.

These lighter-minded people the drama of whose
existence was just now in the comedy stage, went
noisily up to their rooms ; but the Baron who was
usually among the most loquacious, retired almost
in silence. Nor did Christabel do more than bid
her guests a brief good-night. Neither Leonard
nor his friend Jack Vandeleur had shown themselves
since dinner. Whether they were still in the
Squires den or whether they had retired to their
own rooms no one knew.

The Barons servant vas waiting to attend his
master. He was a man who had been with de
Cazalet in California, Mexico, and South America 
who had lived with him in his bachelorhood and in
his married life  knew all the details of his domestic

career had been faithful to him in wealth and in
poverty, knew all that there was to be known about
him  the best and the worst  and had made up his
mind to hold by an employment which had been
adventurous, profitable, and tolerably easy, not
entirely free from danger,, or from the prospect of
adversity  yet always hopeful. So thorough a scamp
as the Baron must always find some chance open
to him  thus, at least, argued Henri le Mescam,
his unscrupulous ally. The man was quick, clever
able to turn his hand to anything  valet, groom,
cook, courier  as necessity demanded.

Is Salathiel pretty fresh V asked the Baron.

Fit as a fiddle : he hasn't been out since you
hunted him four days ago.

That's lucky. He will be able to go the pace
tomorrow morning. Have him harnessed to that
American buggy of Mr. TregonelFs at six clocks'

I suppose you know that it's hardly light at
six''

'' There will be quite enough light for me. Pack
my smallest portmanteau with linen for a week, and
a second suit  no dress clothes  and have the trap

ready in the stable-yard when the clock strikes
six. I have to catch a train at Launceston at
7.45. You will follow in the afternoon with
the luggage.-'

To your London rooms Sir T*

Yes. If you don't find me there you will wait
for further instructions. You may have to join me
on the other side of the channels'

'' I hope so, Sirs

of England already ?"

Never cared much for it, Sir. I began to think
I should die of the dulness of this places'

' Rather more luxurious than our old quarters
at St. Helpers ten years ago, when you were
marker at Jewson's, while I was teaching drawing
and French at the fashionable academies of the
islands

That was bad, Sir ; but luxury isn't everything
in life. A man's mind goes to rust in a place of
this kind."

' Well, there will not be much rust for you in
future, I believe. How would you like it if I were
to take you back to the shores of the Pacific T'

That's just what I should like, Sir. You were
a king there, and I was your prime minister'

And I may be a king again  perhaps this
time with a queen  a proud and beautiful
queen."

Le Mescam smiled, and shrugged his shoulders.

The queenly element was not quite wanting in
the past, Sir'' he said.

Pshaw, Henri, the ephemeral fancy of the hour.
Such chance entanglements as those do not rule a
man's life."

Perhaps not, Sir ; but I know one of those
chance entanglements made Lima unpleasantly
warm for us; and if, after you winged Don
Silvio, there hadn't been a pair of good horses
waiting for us, you might never have seen the
outside of Peru."

And if a duel was dangerous in Lima, it would
be ten times more dangerous in Cornwall, would it
not, Henri?"

Of course it would. Sir. But you are not
thinking of anything like a duel here  you can't
be so mad as to think of it."

Certainly not. And now you can pack that
small portmanteau, while I take a stretch. I
shan't take off my clothes : a man who has to be
up before six should never trifle with his feelings
by making believe to go to bed.

CHAPTER XII.

*' SHE STOOD UP IN BITTER Case WITH A PALE
YET STEADY Faces

The silence of night and slumber came down
upon the world, shadow and darkness were folded
round and about it. The ticking o the old eight-day
clock in the hall, of the bracket clock in the
corridor, and of half a dozen other time-pieces,
conscientiously performing in. empty rooms, took
that solemn and sepulchral sound which all clocks,
down to the humblest Dutchman, assume after midnight.
Sleep, peace, and silence seemed to brood
over all human and brute life at Mount Royal.
Yet there were some who had no thought of sleep
that night.

In Mr. TregonelFs dressing-room there was the
light of lamp and fire, deep into the small hours.
The master of the house lolled, half-dressed, in an
armchair by the hearth ; while his friend, Captain

VOL. TII. 8

Yandeleur, in smoking-jacket and slippers, lounged
with his back to the chimney-piece, and a cigarette
between his b*ps. A whisky bottle and a couple of
siphons stood on a tray on the Squires writing-table,
an open pistol-case near at hand.

'' You better lie down for a few hours'' said
Captain Vandeleur. ' I'll call you at half-past
fives

Vd rather sit here. I may get a nap by-and-by
perhaps. You can go to bed if you are tired :
I shan't oversleep myself'

' I wish you give up this business, Tregonell/
said his friend, with unaccustomed seriousness.
This man is a dead shot. We heard of him in
Bolivia, don't you remember ? A man who has
spent half his life in shooting-galleries, and who
has lived where life counts for very little. Why
should you stake your life against his? It isn't
even betting : you're good enough at big game, but
you've had very little pistol practice. Even if you
were to kill him, which isn't on the cards, you'd
be tried for murder ; and whereas the advantage of
that's

' ni risk it/ answered Leonard doggedly,, " I
saw him with my wife's hand clasped in his  saw
him with his lips close to her face  close enough
for kisses  heard her promise him an answer 
tomorrow. By Heaven there shall he no such
tomorrow for him and for me. For one of us
there shall be an end of all things.

* I don't believe Mrs. Tregonell is capable '' 
began Jack, thoughtfully mumbling his cigarette.

You've said that once before, and you needn't
say it again. Capable ! Why man alive, I saw
them together. Nothing less than the evidence of
my own eyes would have convinced me. I have
been slow enough to believe. There is not a manor
woman in this house, yourself included, who has
not, in his secret soul, despised me for my slowness.
And yet, now, because there is a question of a
pistol-shot or two you fence round, and try to
persuade me that my wife's good name is immaculate,
that all which you have seen and wondered at for
the last three weeks means nothing."

Those open flirtations seldom do mean any-things'
said Jack J persuasively.

s2

A man may belong to the hawk tribe and yet not
be without certain latent instincts of compassion
and good feeling.

' Perhaps not  but secret meetings do : what
I saw at the Sieve to-dav was conclusive. Besides,
the affair is all settled  you and de Cazalet have
arranged it between you. He is willing that there
should be no witness but you. The whole business
will rest a secret between us three ; and if we get
quietly down to the sands before any one is astir
to see us no one else need ever know what happened
there. 

If there is bloodshed the thing must be knowu.'

It will seem like accident ?"

True' answered Vandeleur, looking at him
searchingly ; " like that accident last year at the
Sieve  poor Harleigh's death. Isn't tomorrow
the anniversary by-the-by T

*eyes  the date has come round again'

Dates have an awkward knack of doing that.
There is a cursed mechanical regularity in life which
makes a man wish himself in some savage island
where there is no such thing as an almanac' said

Vandeleur, taking out another cigarette. '' If I
had been Crusoe I should never have stuck up that
post. I should have been too glad to get rid of
quarter-day.

In ChristabeFs room at the other end of the long
corridor there was only the dim light of the night-lamp,
nor was there any sound, save the ticking of
the clock and the crackling of the cinders in the
dying fire. Yet here there was no more sleep nor
peace than in the chamber of the man who was to
wager his life against the life of his fellow-man in
the pure light of the dawning day. Christabel
stood at her window, dressed just as she had left
the drawing-room, looking out at the sky and the
sea, and thinking of him who, at this hour last year,
was still a part of her life  perchance a watcher
then as she was watching now, gazing with vaguely
questioning eyes into the illimitable panorama of the
heavens, worlds beyond worlds, suns and planetary
systems, scattered like grains of sand over the awful
desert of infinite space, innumerable, immeasurable,
the infinitesimals of the astronomer the despair

of faith. Yes a year ago and he was beneath that
roof, her friend, her counsellor, if need were ; for
she had never trusted him so completely, never so
understood and realized all the nobler qualities of
his nature, as in those last days, after she had set
an eternal barrier between herself and him.

She stood at the open lattice, the cold night air
blowing upon her fever-heated face; her whole
being absorbed not in deliberate thought, but in a
kind of waking trance. Strange pictures came out
of the darkness, and spread themselves before her
eyes. She saw her first lover lying on the broad
flat rock at St. Nectan's Sieve, face downward,
shot through the heart, the water stained with the
life-blood slowly oozing from his breast. And then,
when that picture faded into the blackness of night,
she saw her husband and Oliver de Cazalet standing
opposite to each other on the broad level sands at
Trebarwith, the long waves rising up behind them
like a low wall of translucent green, crested with
silvery whiteness. S o they would stand face to face
a few hours hence. From her lurking-place behind
the trees and brushwood at the entrance to the Sieve

she had heard the appointment made  and she
knew that at seven o'clock those two were to meet
with deadliest intent. She had so planned it  a
life for a life.

She had no shadow of doubt as to which of those
two would fall. Three months ago on the Riff el
she had seen the Barons skill as a marksman
tested  she had seen him the wonder of the crowd
at those rustic sports  seen him perform feats which
only a man who has reduced pistol-shooting to a
science would attempt. Against this man Leonard
Tregonell  good all-round sportsman as he was 
could have very little chance. Leonard had always
been satisfied with that moderate skilfulness which
comes easily and unconsciously. He had never
given time and labour to any of the arts he pursued
 content to be able to hold his own among
parasites and flatterers.

' A life for a life' repeated Christabel, her lips
moving dumbly, her heart throbbing heavily, as if
it were beating out those awful words. ' A life fora
life  the old law  the law of justice  God's own
sentence against murder. The law could not touch

this murderer  but there was one way by which that
cruel deed might be punished, and I found it'

The slow silent hours wore on. Christabel left the
window, shivering with cold, though cheeks, brow,
and lips were burning. She walked up and down
the room for a long while, till the very atmosphere
of the room, nay, of the house itself, seemed unendurable.
She felt as if she were being suffocated,
and this sense of oppression became so strong that
she was sorely tempted to shriek aloud, to call upon
some one for rescue from that stifling vault. The
feeling grew to such intensity that she flung on her
hat and cloak, and went quickly downstairs to a
lobby-door that opened into the garden, a little
door which she had unbolted many a night after
the servants had locked up the house, in order to
steal out in the moonlight and among the dewy
flowers, and across the dewy turf to those shrubbery
walks which had such a mysterious look  half in
light and half in shadow.

She closed the door behind her, and stood with
the night wind blowing round her, looking up at
the sky ; clouds were drifting across the starry

dome and the moon, like a storm-beaten boat,
seemed to be hurrying through them. The cold
wind revived her, and she began to breathe more
freely.

I think I was going mad just now/ she said
to herself.

And then she thought she would go out upon
the hills, and down to the churchyard in the valley.
On this night, of all nights, she would visit Angus
Hamleighs grave. It was long since she had seen
the spot where he lay  since her return from
Switzerland she had not once entered a church.
Jessie had remonstrated with her gravely and
urgently  but without eliciting any explanation
of this falling off in one who had been hitherto so
steadfastly devout.

I don't feel inclined to go to church, Jessie,
she said, coolly ; " there is no use in discussing my
feelings. I don't feel fit for church; and I am not
going in order to gratify your idea of what is conventional
and correct."

I am not thinking of this in its conventional
aspect  I have always made light of conventionalities

 but things must be in a bad way with you,
Christabel;, when you do not feel fit for churches

Things are in a bad way with me" answered
Christabel, with a dogged moodiness which was insurmountable.
" I never said they were good."

This surrender of old pious habits had given
Jessie more uneasiness than any other fact in 
life. Her flirtation with the Baron must
needs be meaningless frivolity, Jessie had thought ;
since it seemed hardly within the limits of possibility
that a refined and pure-minded woman could
have any real penchant for that showy adventurer ;
but this persistent avoidance of church meant
mischief.

And now in the deep dead-of-night silence,
Christabel went on her lonely pilgrimage to her
first lovers grave. Oh , happy summer day when,
sitting by her side outside the Maidenhead coach,
all her own through life, as it seemed, he told her
how, if she had the ordering of his grave, she was
to bury him in that romantic churchyard, hidden

in a cleft of the hill. She had not forgotten this even
amidst the horror of his fate and had told the vicar
that Mr. Harleigh's grave must be at Minster and
no otherwhere. Then had come his relations, suggesting
burial-places with family associations  vaults,
mausoleums, the pomp and circumstance of sepulture.
But Christabel had been firm ; and while the
others hesitated a paper was found in the dead manes
desk requesting that he might be buried at Minster.

How lonely the world seemed in this solemn pause
between night and morning. Never before had
Christabel been out alone at such an hour. She
had travelled in the dead of the night, and had seen
the vague dim night-world from the window of a
railway carriage  but never until now had she
walked across these solitary hills after midnight.
It seemed as if for the first time in her life she
were alone with the stars.

How difficult it was in her present state of
mind to realize that those lights, tremulous in the
deep blue vault, were worlds, and combinations of
worlds  almost all of them immeasurably greater
than this earth on which she trod. To her

they seemed living watchers of the night 
solemn, mysterious beings, looking down at her
with all-understanding eyes. She had an awful
feeling of their companionship as she looked up at
them  a mystic sense that all her thoughts  the
worst and best of them  were being read by that
galaxy of eyes.

Strangely beautiful did the hills and the sky 
the indefinite shapes of the trees against the edge
of the horizon, the mysterious expanse of the dark
sea  seem to her in the night silence. She had no
fear of any human presence, but there was an
awful feeling in being, as it were, for the first time
in her life alone with the immensities. Those hills
and gorges, so familiar in all phases of daylight,
from sunrise to after set of sun, assumed Titanic
proportions in this depth of night, and were as
strange to her as if she had" never trodden this path
before. What was the wind saying, as it came
moaning and sobbing along the deep gorge through
which the river ran ?  what did the wind say as she
crossed the narrow bridge which trembled under
lier light footfall ? Surely there was some human

meaning in that long minor wail, which burst
suddenly into a wild unearthly shriek, and then
died away in a low sobbing tone, as of sorrow and
pain that grew dumb from sheer exhaustion, and
not because there was any remission of pain or
sorrow.

With that unearthly sound still following her,
she went up the winding hill-side path, and then
slowly descended to the darkness of the churchyard 
so sunk and sheltered that it seemed like going
down into a vault.

Just then the moon leapt from behind an inky
cloud, and, in that ghostly light, Christabel saw the
pale grey granite cross which had been erected in
memory of Angus Harleigh. It stood up in the
midst of nameless mounds, and humble slate tablets,
pale and glittering  an unmistakable sign of the
spot where her first lover lay. Once only before
to-night had she seen that monument. Absorbed
in the pursuit of a Pagan scheme of vengeance she
had not dared to come within the precincts of the
church, where she had knelt and prayed through
all the sinless years of her girlhood. To-night

some wild impulse had brought her here  to-night,
when that crime which she called retribution was
on the point of achievement.

She went with stumbling footsteps through the
long grass, across the low mounds, till she came to
that beneath which Angus Harleigh lay. She fell
like a lifeless thing at the foot of the cross. Some
loving hand had covered the mound of earth with
primroses and violets, and there were low clambering
roses all round the grave. The scent of sweetbread
was mixed with the smell of earth and grass. Someone
had cared for that grave, although she, who so
loved the dead, had never tended it.

' Oh, my love ! my love V she sobbed, with her
face upon the grass and the primrose leaves, and her
arms clasping the granite ; " my murdered love 
my first, last, only lover  before to-sorrows sun is
down your death will be revenged, and my life will
be over ! I have lived only for that  only for
that, Angus, my love, my love V She kissed the
cold wet grass more passionately than she had ever
kissed the dead face mouldering underneath it.
Only to the dead  to the utterly lost and gone  is

given this supreme passion  love sublimated to
despair. From the living there is always something
kept back  something saved and garnered for an
after-gift  some reserve in the mind or the heart of
the giver; but to the dead love gives all  with a
wild self-abandonment which knows not restraint or
measure. The wife who, while this man yet lived,
had been so rigorously true to honour and duty,
now poured into the deaf dead ears a reckless
avowal of love  love that had never faltered, never
changed  love that had renounced the lover, and
had yet gone on loving to the end.

The wind came moaning out of the valley again
with that sharp human cry, as of lamentation for
the dead.

Angus !" murmured Christabel, piteously,
Angus, can you hear me ?  do you know ? Oh,
my God ! is there memory or understanding in the
world where he has gone, or is it all a dead blank ?
Help me, my God ! I have lost all the old sweet
illusions of faith  I have left off praying, hoping,
believing  I have only thought of my dead  thought
of death and of him till all the living world grew

unreal to me  aid God and .Heaven were only like
old half-forgotten dreams. Angus V'

For a long time she lay motionless, her cold hands
clasping the cold stone her lips pressed upon the
soft dewy turf, her face buried in primrose leaves 
then slowly, and with an effort, she raised herself
upon her knees, and knelt with her arms encircling

the cross that sacred emblem which had once

meant so much for her : but which, since that long
blank interval last winter, seemed to have lost all
meaning. One great overwhelming grief had
made her a Pagan  thirsting for revenge  vindictive
 crafty  stealthy as an American Indian on the
trail of his deadly foe  subtle as Greek or Oriental
to plan and to achieve a horrible retribution.

She looked at the inscription on the cross, legible
in the moonlight, deeply cut in large Gothic letters
upon the grey stone, filled in with dark crimson.

Vengeance is mine: I will repay, saith the Lord."

Who had put that inscription upon the cross ? It
was not there when the monument was first put up.
Christabel remembered going with Jessie to see the

grave in that dim half-blank time before she went
to Switzerland. Then there was nothing but a
name and a date. And now in awful distinctness,
there appeared those terrible words  God's own
promise of retribution the claim of the Almighty
to be the sole avenger of human wrongs.

And she, reared by a religious woman, brought
up in the love and fear of God, had ignored that
sublime and awful attribute of the Supreme. She
had not been content to leave her lover's death to
the Great Avenger. She had brooded on his dark
fate, until out of the gloom of despair there had
arisen the image of a crafty and bloody retribution.
'whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his
blood be shed' So runs the dreadful sentence of
an older law. The newer, lovelier law, which began
in the after-glow of Philosophy, the dawn of
Christianity, bids man leave revenge to God. And
she, who had once called herself a Christian, had
planned and plotted, making herself the secret
avenger of a criminal who had escaped the grip of
the law.

Must he lie in his grave, unavenged, until the

VOL. III. T

Day of Judgment ?" she asked herself. '' God's
vengeance is slow'

An hour later, and Christabel, pale and exhausted,
her garments heavy with dew, was kneeling by her
boy's bed in the faint light of the night-lamp ;
kneeling by him as she had knelt a year ago, but
never since her return from Switzerland  praying
as she had not prayed since Angus Harleigh's
death. After those long, passionate prayers, she
rose and looked at the slumberer's face  her husband's
face in little  but oh ! how pure and fresh
and radiant. God keep him from boyhood's
sins of self-love and self-indulgence  from manhood's
evil passions, hatred and jealousy. All her
life to come seemed too little to be devoted to
watching and guarding this beloved from the
encircling snares and dangers of life. Pure and
innocent now, in this fair dawn of infancy, he
nestled in her arms  he clung to her and believed
in her. What business had she with any other
fears, desires, or hopes  God having given her the

sacred duties of maternity  the master-passion of
motherly love ?

"I have been mad!" she said to herself; '' I
have been living in a ghastly dream : but God has
awakened me  Gods word has cured mee."

God's word had come to her at the crisis of her
life. A month ago, while her scheme of vengeance
seemed still far from fulfilment, that awful sentence
would hardly have struck so deeply. It was on
the very verge of the abyss that those familiar
words caught her ; just when the natural faltering
of her womanhood, upon the eve of a terrible crime,
made her most sensitive to a sublime impression.

The first faint streak of day glimmered in the
east, a pale cold light, livid and ghostly upon the
edge of the sea yonder, white and wan upon the
eastward points of rock and headland, when Jessie
Bridgeman was startled from her light slumbers by
a voice at her bedside. She was always an early
riser, and it cost her no effect to sit up in bed, with
her eyes wide open, and all her senses on the alert.

'' Christabel, what is the matter ? Is Leo ill ?''

No, Leo is well enough. Get up and dress

t2

yourself quickly, Jessie. I want you to come with
me  on a strange errand ; but it is something that
must be done, and at once/

Christabel, you are mad/

No. I have been mad. I think you must know
it  this is the awakening. Come, Jessie.''''

Jessie had sprung out of bed, and put on slippers
and dressing-gown, without taking her eyes off
Christabel. Presently she felt her cloak and
gown.

'' Why, you are wet through. Where have you
been ?"

To Angus HamleigVs grave. Who put that
inscription on the cross''

' I did. Nobody seemed to care about his grave
no one attended to it. I got to think the grave
my own property, and that I might do as I liked
with it."

But those awful words ! What made you put
them there ?"

I wanted the man who killed him to be reminded
that there is an Avengers'

Wash your face and put on your clothes as fast

She would explain nothing. Jessie urged her to
take off her wet cloak to go and change her gown
and shoes ; but she refused with angry impatience.

There will be time enough for that afterwards'
she said ; " what I have to do will not take long, but
it must be done at once. Pray be quick'

Jessie struggled through her hurried toilet, and
followed Christabel along the corridor, without
question or exclamation. They went to the door of
Baron de Cazalet's room. A light shone under the
bottom of the door, and there was the sound of
some one stirring within. Christabel knocked, and
the door was opened almost instantly by the Baron
himself.

Is it the trap ?" he asked. " It's an hour too
soon."

No, it is I, Monsieur de Cazalet. May I come
in for a few minutes ? I have something to tell you."

Christabel  my " He stopped in the midst

of that eager exclamation, at sight of the other
figure in the background.

He was dressed for the day  carefully dressed, like
a man who in a crisis of his life wishes to appear
at no disadvantage. His pistol case stood ready on
the table. A pair of candles, burnt low in the
sockets of the old silver candlesticks, and a heap of
charred and torn paper in the fender showed that
the Baron had been getting rid of superfluous
documents. Christabel went into the room, followed
by Jessie, the Baron staring at them both, in blank
amazement. He drew an armchair near the expiring
fire, and Christabel sank into it, exhausted and half
fainting.

What does it all mean V asked de Cazalet
looking at Jessie, '' and why are you here with her?

' Why is she here ? " asked Jessie. " There can
be no reason except "

She touched her forehead lightly with the tips of
her fingers.

Christabel saw the action.

"No, I am not mad, nowe'' she said; "I believe I
have been mad, but that is all over. Monsieur de
Cazalet, you and my husband are to fight a duel
this morning, on Trebarwith sands''

My dear Mrs. Tregonell, what a strange
notion V

 Don't take the trouble to deny anything. I
overheard your conversation yesterday afternoon.
I know everything. 

Would it not have been better to keep the
knowledge to yourself, and to remember your
promise to me last night ?'

** Yes I remember that promise. I said I
would meet you at Bodmin Road, after you had
shot my husband's

* There was not a word about shooting your
husbands'

"Noj but the fact was in our minds, all the
same  in yours as well as in mine. Only there was
one difference between us. You thought that
when you had killed Leonard I would run away
with you. That was to be your recompense for
murder. I meant that you should kill him, but
that you should never see my face again. You
would have served my purpose  you would have
been the instrument of my revenge !"
Christabel !"

Do not call me by that name  I am nothing
to you  I never could , under any possible phase of
circumstances be any nearer to you than T am at this
moment. From first to last I have been acting a
part. When I saw you at that shooting match, on
the Eiflfel, I said to myself ' Here is a man, who in
any encounter with my husband, must be fatal
My husband killed the only man I ever loved, in a
duel, without witnesses  a duel forced upon him
by insane and causeless jealousy Whether that
meeting was fair or unfair in its actual details, I
cannot tell; but at the best it was more like a murder
than a duel. When, through Miss Bridgeman's
acuteness, I came to understand what that meeting
had been, I made up my mind to avenge Mr.
Harleigh death. For a long time my brain was
under a cloud  I could think of nothing, plan
nothing. Then came clearer thoughts, and then I met
you; and the scheme of my revenge flashed upon
me like a suggestion direct from Satan. I knew my
husbands jealous temper, and how easy it would be
to fire a train there, and I made my plans with that
view. You lent yourself very easily to my schemes'

"Lent myself!' cried the Baron , indignantly ;

and then with a savage oath he said : " I loved

you , Mrs. Tregonell and you made me believe that

you loved me'

' 1 let you make fine speeches and I pretended

to be pleased at themes answered Christabel, with

supreme scorn. ' I think that was all.'

No; madam,, it was not all. You fooled me to

the top of my bent. What those lovely looks
those lowered accents  all meant nothing ? It was

all a delusion  an acted lie ? You never cared former


No'' answered Christabel. " My heart was
buried with the dead. I never loved but one man,
and he was murdered, as I believed  and I made
up my mind to avenge his murder.  Whoso
sheddeth manes blood, by man shall his blood be
sheds That sentence was in my mind always when
I thought of Leonard Tregonell. I meant you to bethe
executioner. And now  now  God knows how
the light has come  but the God I worshipped
when I was a happy sinless girl, has called me out
of the deep pit of sin  called me to remorse and

atonement. You inst not fight this duel. You
must save me from this horrible crime that I
planned  save me and yourself from blood-guiltiness.
You must not meet Leonard at Trebarwith.'
And stamp myself as a cur, to oblige you : after
having lent myself so simply to your scheme of
vengeance, lend myself as complacently to your
repentance. No, Mrs. Tregonell, that is too much
to ask. I vill be your bravo, if you like, since I
took the part unconsciously  but I will not brand
myself with the charge of cowardice  even for

you.-

' You fought a duel in South America, and killed
your adversary. Mr. FitzJesse told me so. Everybody
knows that you are a dead shot. Who can
call you a coward for refusing to shoot the man
whose roof has sheltered you  who never injured
you  against whom you can have no ill wills

Don't be too sure of that. He is your husband.
When I came to Mount Royal, I came resolved to
win you.-

Only because I had deceived you. The woman
you admired was a living lie. Oh, if you could

' It was a pity you did not let your drama come
to its natural denouement," sneered de Cazalet,
furious with the first woman who had ever completely
fooled him. ' When your husband was
dead  for there is not much doubt as to my killing
him  you and I could have come to an understanding.
You must have had some gratitude. However,
I am not bloodthirsty, and since Mrs. Tregonell
has cheated me out of my devotion, fooled me with
day-dreams of an impossible future, I don't see that
I should gain much by shooting Mr. Tregonell."

"No, there would be no good to you in that
profitless bloodshed. It is I who have wronged

cc

SHE STOOD UP IN BITTER Case

you  I who wilfully deceived you  degrading myself
in order to lure my husband into a fatal
quarrel  tempting you to kill him. Forgive me,
if you can  and forget this wild wicked dream.
Conscience and reason came back to me beside
that quiet grave to-night. What good could it do
him who lies there that blood should be spilt for #
his sake ? Monsieur de Cazalet,, if you will give up
all idea of this duel I will be grateful to you for the
rest of my life's

* You have treated me very cruelly said the
Baron, taking both her hands, and looking into her
eyes, half in despairing love, half in bitterest anger ;
"you have fooled me as never man was fooled
before, I think  tricked me  and trifled with me 
and I owe you very little allegiance. If you and I
were in South America I would show you very little
mercy. No, my sweet one, I would make you play
out the game  you should finish the drama you
began  finish it in my fashion. But in this world
of yours, hemmed round with conventionalities, I am
obliged to let you oflP easily. As for your husband 
well, I have exposed my life too often to the aim

of a six-shooter to be called coward if I let this one
opportunity slip. He is nothing to me  or I to
him  since you are nothing to me. He may go 
and I may go. I will leave a line to tell him that
we have both been the dupes of a pretty little acted
charade, devised by his wife and her friends  and
instead of going to meet him at Trebarwith, Til drive
straight to Launceston, and catch the early train.
Will that satisfy you, Mrs. Tregonell?"

I thank you with all my heart and soul  you
have saved me from myself. 

'* You are a much better man than I thought you.
Baron'' said Jessie, speaking for the first time.

She had stood by, a quiet spectator of the scene,
listening intently, ready at any moment to come to
ChristabeFs rescue, if need were  understanding, for
the first time, the moving springs of conduct which
had been so long a mystery to her.

'thank you. Miss Bridgeman. I suppose you
were in the plot  looked on and laughed in your
sleeve, as you saw how a man of the world may be
fooled by sweet words and lovely looks."

I knew nothing. I thought Mrs. Tregonell eras

possessed by the deviL If she had let you go on
if you had shot her husband  I should not have
been sorry for him  for I know he killed a much
better man than himself, and I am hard enough to
hug the stern old law  a life for a life. But I
should have been sorry for her. She is not made
for such revenges'

"And now you will be reconciled with your husband,
I suppose, Mrs. Tregonell. You two will
agree to forget the past, and to live happily ever
afterwards ?' sneered de Cazalet, looking up from
the letter which he was writing.

No ! there can be no forgetfulness for either
of us. I have to do my duty to my son. I have
to win Gods pardon for the guilty thoughts and
plans which have filled my mind so long. But I owe
no duty to Mr. Tregonell. He has forfeited every
claim. May I see your letter when it is finished T'

De Cazalet handed it to her without a word  a
brief epistle, written in the airiest tone, ascribing
all that had happened at the Sieve to a sportive
plot of Mrs. TregonelFs, and taking a polite leave
of the master of the house.

'when he reads that, I shall be half-way to
Launceston he said, as Christabel gave him back
the letter.

''I am deeply grateful to you, and now goodbye''
she said, gravely, offering him her hand. He
pressed the cold slim hand in his, and gently raised
it to his lips.

'' You have used me very badly, but I shall love
and honour you to the end of my days," he said, as
Christabel left him.

Jessie was following, but de Cazalet stopped heron
the threshold. " Come," he said, '' you must
give me the clue to this mystery. Surely you
were in it  you, who know her so well, must have
known something of this ?"

'' I knew knowing. I watched her with fear and
wonder. After  after Mr. Hamleighs death  she
was very ill  mentally ill ; she sank into a kind of
apathy  not madness  but terribly near the confines
of madness. Then, suddenly, her spirits seemed to
revive  she became eager for movement, amusement
 an utterly different creature from her former
self. She and I, who had been like sisters, seemed

ever so far apart. I could not understand this
new phase of her character. For a whole year she
has been unlike herself  a terrible year. Thank
God this morning I have seen the old Christabel
against

Half an hour afterwards the Barons dogcart drove
out of the yard, and half an hour after his departure
the Barony's letter was delivered to Leonard Tregonell,
who muttered an oath as he finished reading its and
then handed it to his faithful Jack.

' What do you say to that V he asked.

By Jove, I knew Mrs. T was straights

answered the Captain, in his unsophisticated
phraseology. " But it was a shabby trick to play
you all the same. I daresay Mop and Dop were
in it. Those girls are always ready for larks. 

Leonard muttered something the reverse of
polite about Dop and Mop, and went straight to
the stable-yard, where he cancelled his order for
the trap which was to have conveyed him to
Trebarwith sands, and where he heard of the
Barons departure for Launceston.

Mystified and angry, he went straight upstairs to

his wife's room. All barriers were broken down
now. All reticence was at an end. Plainest words
straightest measures befitted the present state of
things.

Christabel was on her knees in a recess near her
bed  a recess which held a little table, with her
devotional books and a prie-dieu chair. A beautiful
head of the Salvator Mundi, painted on china at
Munich, gave beauty and sanctity to this little
oratory. She was kneeling on the prie-dieu,
her arms folded on the purple velvet cushion, her
head leaning forward on the folded arms, in an
attitude of prostration and self-abandonment, her
hair falling loosely over her white dressing gown.
She rose at Leonard's entrance, and confronted
him, a ghostlike figure, deadly pale.

'"Your lover has given me the slip"" he said,
roughly ;  why didn't you go with him ? You
mean to go, I have no doubt. You have both
made your plans to that end  but you want to
sneak away  to get clear of this country, perhaps,
before people have found out what you are.
Women of your stamp don't mind what scandal

VOL. III. u

they create, but they like to be out of the
row''

You are mistaken his wife answered, coldly,
unmoved by his anger, as she had ever been untouched
by his love. " The man who left here
this morning was never my lover  never could
have been, had he and I lived under the same roof
for years. But I intended him for the avenger of
that one man whom I did love, with all my heart
and soul  the man you killed.''''

What do you mean T' faltered Leonard, with a
dull grey shade creeping over his face.

It had been in his mind for a long time that his
secret was suspected by his wife  but this straight,
sudden avowal of the fact was not the less a shock
to him.

 You know what I mean. Did you not know
when you came back to this house that I had
fathomed your mystery  that I knew whose hand
killed Angus Harleigh. You did know it, Leonard :
you must have known : for you knew that I was nota
woman to fling a wife's duty to the winds, without
some all-sufficient reason. You knew what kind of

wife I had been for four dull, peaceful years  low
honestly I had endeavoured to perform the duty
which I took upon myself in loving gratitude to
your dear mother. Did you believe that I could
change all at once  become a heartless, empty-headed
lover of pleasure  hold you, my husband at
arm's length  outrage propriety  defy opinion 
without a motive so powerful, a purpose so deadly
and so dear, that self-abasement, loss of good name,
counted for nothing with me/

You are a fools'' said Leonard, doggedly. '' No
one at the inquest so much as hinted at foul play.
Why should you suspect any one ?"

'' For more than one good reason. First, your
manner on the night before Angus Harleigh's
death  the words you and he spoke to each other
at the door of his room. I asked you then if there
were any quarrel between you, and you said no :
but even then I did not believe you''

' There was not much love between us. You did
not expect that, did you ?" asked her husband
savagely. .

You invited him to your house ; you treated

u 2

him as your friend. You had no cause to distrust
him or me. You must have known that'

I knew that you loved him'

I had been your faithful and obedient wife."

Faithful and obedient ; yes  a man might buy
faith and obedience in any market. I knew that
other man was master of your heart. Great Heaven,
can I forget how I saw you that nighty hanging
upon his words, all your soul in your eyes''

We were talking of life and death. It was not
his words that thrilled me ; but the deep thoughts
they stirred within me  thoughts of the great
mystery  the life beyond the veil. Do you know
what it is to speculate upon the life beyond this
life when you are talking to a man who bears the
stamp of death upon his brow, who is as surely
devoted to the grave as Socrates was when he
talked to his friends in the prison. But why do I
talk to you of these things? You cannot understand
"

No ! I am outside the pale, am I not ?" sneered
Leonard ; ' made of a different clay from that sickly
sentimental worshipper of yours, who turned to you

when he had worn himself out in the worship of
ballet-girls. I was not half fine enough for you,
could not talk of Shakespeare and the musical
glasses. Was it a pleasant sensation for me, do you
think, to see you two sentimentalizing and poetizing,
day after day  Beethoven here and Byron there,
and all the train of maudlin modern versifiers who
have made it their chief business to sap the foundations
of domestic life's''

' Why did you bring him into your house V
Why ? Can't you guess ? Because I wanted
to know the utmost and the worst ; to watch you
two together; to see what venom was left in the
old poison ; to make sure, if I could, that you were
staunch; to put you to the tests''

God knows I never faltered, throughout* that
ordeal, said Christabel, solemnly. " And yet you
murdered him. You ask me how I know of that
murder. Shall T tell you ? You were at the
Sieve that day; you did not go by the beaten
track where the ploughmen must have seen you.
No ! you crept in by stealth the other way 
clambered over the rocks  ah ! you start. You

wonder how I know that. You tore your coat in
the scramble across the arch and a fragment of
the cloth was caught upon a bramble. I have that
scrap of cloth , and I have the shooting-jacket from
which it was torn, under lock and key in yonder
wardrobe. Now will you deny that you were at
the Sieve that day?

*' No. I was there. Harleigh met me there by
appointment. You were right in your suspicion
that night. We did quarrel  not about you 
but about his treatment of that Vandeleur girl. I
thought he had led her on  flirted with her  fooled
her ''

You thoughts ejaculated Christabel with ineffable
scorn.

Wells I told him sO; at any rate ; told him that
he would not have dared to treat any woman so
scurvily, with her brother and her brother's friend
standing by, if the good old wholesome code of
honour had not gone out of fashion. I told him
that forty years ago, in the duelling age, men had
been shot for a smaller offence against good feeling;
and then he rounded on me, and asked me if I

wanted to shoot him ; if I was trying to provoke a
quarrel ; and then  I hardly know how the thing
came about  it was agreed that we should meet at
the Sieve at nine o'clock next morning, both equipped
as if for woodcock shooting  game-bag, dogs , and
all, our guns loaded with swan-shots and that we
should settle our differences face to face in that
quiet hollow, without witnesses. If either of us
dropped, the thing would seem an accident, and
would entail no evil consequences upon the survivor.
If one of us were only wounded, why ''

But you did not mean that, interrupted Chris-abel,
with flashing eyes,  you meant your shot to
be fatal'

It was fatal," muttered Leonard.  Never mind
what I meant. God knows how I felt when it was
over, and that man was lying dead on the other
side of the bridge. I had seen many a noble beast,
with something almost human in the look of him,
go down before my gun ; but I had never shot a
man before. Who could have thought there would
have been so much difference T'

Christabel clasped her hands over her face, and

drew back with an involuntary recoil, as if all the
horror of that dreadful scene were being at this
moment enacted before her eyes. Never had the
thought of Angus Hamleighs fate been out of her
mind in all the year that was ended to-day  this day
the anniversary of his death. The image of that
deed had been ever before her mental vision,
beckoning her and guiding her along the pathway
of revenge  a lurid light.

 You murdered him/ she said, in low, steadfast
tones. " You brought him to this house with evil
intent  yes, with your mind full of hatred and
malice towards him. You acted the traitor's base,
hypocritical part, smiling at him and pretending
friendship, while in your soul you meant murder.
And then, under this pitiful mockery of a duel  a
duel with a man who had never injured you, who
had no resentment against you  a duel upon the
shallowest, most preposterous pretence  you kill
your friend and jour guest  you kill him in a lonely
place, with none of the safeguards of ordinary
duelling ; and you have not the manhood to stand up
before your fellow-men, and say,  I did it.''''''

Shall I go aDd tell them now?" asked Leonard,
his white lips tremulous with impotent rage.
* They would hang me, most likely. Perhaps that
is what you want."

No, I never wanted that," answered Christabel.
' For our boys sake, for the honour of your dead
mother's name, I would have saved you from a
shameful death. But I wanted your life  a life for a
life. That is why I tried to provoke your jealousy
why I planned that scene with the Baron yesterday.
I knew that in a duel between you and him
the chances were all in his favour. I had seen and
heard of his skill. You fell easily into the trap I
laid for you. I was behind the bushes when you
challenged de Cazalet."

It was a plot then. You had been plotting
my death all that time. Your songs and dances,
and games and folly, all meant the same thing."

"Yes, I plotted your death as you did Angus
Harleigh's," answered Christabel, slowly, deliberately,
with steady eves fixed on her husband's face;
*only I relented at the eleventh hour. You did
not."

Leonard stared at her in dumb amazement.
This new aspect of his wife's character paralyzed
his thinking powers which had never been vigorous.
He felt as if in the midst of a smooth summer sea,
he had found himself suddenly face to face with
that huge wave known on this wild northern coast,
which , generated by some mysterious power in the
wide Atlantic, rolls on its deadly course in overwhelming
might j engulfing many a craft which buta
minute before was riding gaily on a summer sea.

Yes , you have cause to look at me with horror
in your eyes," said Christabel. ' I have steeped
my soul in sin ; I have plotted your death. In the
purpose and pursuit of my life I have been a
murderer. It is Gods mercy that held me back
from that black gulf. What gain would your death
have been to your victim ? Would he have slept
more peacefully in his grave, or have awakened
happier on the Judgment Day? If he had consciousness
and knowledge in that dim mysterious world,
he would have been sorry for the ruin of my soul
sorry for Stands power over the woman he
once loved. Last night, kneeling on his grave.

these thoughts came into my mind for the first
time. I think it was the fact of being near him 
almost as if there was some sympathy between the
living and the dead. Leonard I know how wicked
I have been. God pity and pardon me, and make
me a worthy mother for my boy. For you and me
there can be nothing but life-long parting.-'-'

Well, yes, I suppose there would not be much
chance of comfort or union for us, after what has
happened,-'-' said Leonard, moodily ; " ours is hardly
a case in which to kiss again with tears, as your
song says. I must be content to go my way, and
let you go yours. It is a pity we ever married;
but that was my fault, I suppose. Have you any
particular views as to your future ? I shall not
molest you ; but I should be glad to know that the
lady who bears my name is leading a reputable
life's

I shall live with my son  for my son. You
need have no fear that I shall make myself a
conspicuous person in the world. I have done
with life, except for him. I care very little where
I live : if you want Mount Royal for yourself, I

can have the old house at Penlee made comfortable
for Jessie Bridgeman and me. I daresay I can be
as happy at Penlee as heres

I don't want this house. I detest it. Do you
suppose I am going to waste my life in England 
or in Europe ? Jack and I can start on our travels
again. The world is wide enough ; there are two
continents on which I have never set foot. I shall
start for Calcutta tomorrow, if I can, and explore
the whole of India before I turn my face westwards
again. I think we understand each other fully,
now. Stay, there is one thing : I am to see my
son when, and as often as I please, I supposes''

"I will not interfere with your rights as a
father's

*' I am glad of that. And now I suppose there
is no more to be said. I leave your life, my
honour, in your own keeping. Good-bye.

God be with you, she answered solemnly,
giving that parting salutation its fullest meaning.

And so, without touch of lip or hand, they
parted for a lifetime.

CHAPTER XIII.

WE HAVE DONE WITH TEARS AND TREASONS.

' I WONDER if there is any ancient crime in the
Tregonell family that makes the twenty-fifth of
October a fatal date'' Mopsy speculated,, with a
lachrymose air, on the afternoon which followed
the Barons hasty departure. ' This very day last
year Mr. Harleigh shot himself, and spoiled all our
pleasure; and to-day, the Baron de Cazalet rushes
away as if the house was infected, Mrs. Tregonell
keeps her own room with a nervous headache, and
Mr. Tregonell is going to carry off Jack to be
broiled alive in some sandy waste among prowling
tigers, or to catch his death of cold upon more of
those horrid mountains. One might just as well
have no brothers

If he ever sent us anything from abroad we
shouldn't feel his loss so keenly said Dopsy, in a
plaintive voice, * but he doesn't. If he were to
traverse the whole of Africa wc shouldn't be the

richer by a single ostrich feather  and those undyed
natural ostriches are such good style. South
America teems with gold and jewels; Peru is a
proverb ; but what are we the better off V

It is rather bad form for the master of a house
to start on his travels before his guests have cleared
outs remarked Mopsy.

And an uncommonly broad hint for the guests
to hasten the clearing-out process retorted Dopsy.
I thought we were good here for another month 
till Christmas perhaps. Christmas at an old Cornish
manor-house would have been too lovely  like one
of the shilling annuals. 

A great deal nicer said Mopsy, " for you
never met with a country-house in a Christmas book
that was not peopled with ghosts and all kind of
ghastliness."

Luncheon was lively enough, albeit de Cazalet
was gone, and Mrs. Tregonell was absent, and Mr.
Tregonell painfully silent. The chorus of the
passionless, the people for whom life means only
dressing and sleeping and four meals a day, found
plenty to talk about.

Jack Vandeleur was in high spirits. He rejoiced
heartily at the turn which affairs had taken that
morning, having from the first moment looked upon
the projected meeting on Trebarwith sands as likely
to be fatal to his friend, and full of peril for all
concerned in the business.

He was too thorough a free-lance, prided himself
too much on his personal courage and his
recklessness of consequences, to offer strenuous
opposition to any scheme of the kind ; but he had
not faced the situation without being fully aware
of its danger, and he was very glad the thing had
blown over without bloodshed or law-breaking.
He was glad also on Mrs. TregonelFs account, very
glad to know that this one woman in whose purity
and honesty of purpose he had believed, had not
proved herself a simulacrum, a mere phantasmagoric
image of goodness and virtue. Still more
did he exult at the idea of re-visiting the happy
hunting-grounds of his youth, that ancient romantic
world in which the youngest and most blameless
years of his life had been spent. Pleasant
to go back under such easy circumstances, with

Leonard's purse to draw upon , to be the rich man's
guide, philosopher and friend, in a country which
he knew thoroughly.

' Pray what is the cause of this abrupt departure
of de Cazalet, and this sudden freak of our host's T
inquired Mrs. Torrington of her next neighbour,
Mr. Fitz Jesse,, who was calmly discussing a cutlet a
la Maintenon, unmoved by the shrill chatter of the
adjacent Dopsy. " I hope it is nothing wrong with
the drains."

' No, I am told the drainage is simply perfected

People always declare as much, till typhoid
fever breaks out; and then it is discovered that
there is an abandoned cesspool in direct communication
with one of the spare bedrooms, or a
forgotten drain pipe under the drawing-room floor.
I never believe people when they tell me their
houses are wholesome. If I smell an unpleasant
smell I go' said Mrs. Torrington.

 There is often wisdom in flight'' replied the
journalist ; " but I do not think this is a case of
bad drainage''

No more do 1/ returned Mrs. Torrington,

dropping her voice and becoming confidential ;
' of course we both perfectly understand what it
all means. There has been a row between Mr. and
Mrs. Tregonell, and de Cazalet has got his cone
from the husbands''

I should have introduced him to the outside
of my house three weeks ago, had I been the
Squires said FitzJesse. "But I believe the flirtation
was harmless enough and I have a shrewd idea
it was what the thieves call a ' put up ' thing  done
on purpose to provoke the husbands

Why should she want to provoke him V

Ah, why ? That is the mystery. You know
her better than I do, and must be better able to
understand her motives'

But I don't understand her in the least protested
Mrs. Torrington. " She is quite a different
person this year from the woman I knew last year.
I thought her the most devoted wife and mother.
The house was not half so nice to stay at ; but it
was ever so much more respectable. I had arranged
with my next people  Otway Court, near Bristol 
to be with them at the end of the week ; but I

VOL. III. X

suppose the best thing we can all do is to go at
once. There is an air of general break>up in Mr.
TregonelFs hasty arrangements for an Indian tour'
 Rather like the supper-party in Macbeth, is it
not ?'' said EitzJesse, " except that her ladyship is
not to the fores

I call it altogether uncomfortable'' exclaimed
Mrs. Torrington, pettishly. " How do I know that
the Otway Court people will be able to receive me.
I may be obliged to go to an hotel."
 Heaven avert such a catastrophe'
It would be very inconvenient  with a maid,
and no end of luggage. One is not prepared for
that kind of thing when one starts on a round of
visits."

For Dopsy and Mopsy there was no such agreeable
prospect as a change of scene from one " well-found"
country-house to another. To be tumbled
out of this lap of luxury meant a fall into the
dreariness of South Belgravia and the King's
Road  long, monotonous, arid streets, with all the
dust that had been ground under the feet of happy
people in the London season blown about in dense

clouds, for the discomfiture of the outcasts who must
stay in town when the season is over; sparse
dinners, coals measured by the scuttle, smoky fires,
worn carpets, flat beer, and the whole gamut of
existence equally flat, stale, and unprofitable.

Dopsy and Mopsy listened with doleful countenances
to Jack's talk about the big things he and his
friend were going to do in Bengal, the tigers, the
wild pigs, and wild peacocks they were going to
slay. Why had not Destiny made them young
men, that they too might prey upon their species,
and enjoy life at somebody else's expense?

I'll tell you what," said their brother, in the
most cheerful manner. " Of course you won't be
staying here after I leave. Mrs. Tregonell will want
to be alone when her husband goes. You had
better go with the Squire and me as far as Southampton.
He'll frank you. We can all stop at the
 Duke of Cornwall' tomorrow night, and start for
Southampton by an early train next morning. You
can lunch with us at the  Dolphin,' see us off by
steamer, and go on to London afterwards."

That will be a ray of jollity to gild the last

X 2

hour of our happiness said Mopsy. " Oh, how I
loathe the idea of going back to those lodgings 
and pa V

"The governor is a trial, I must admit," said
Jack. " But you see the European idea is that an
ancient parent can hang on hand too long. There's
no wheeling him down to the Ganges, and leaving
him to settle his account with the birds and the
fishes ; and even in India that kind of thing is
getting out of date."

I wouldn't so much mind him," said Dopsy,
plaintively, " if his habits were more human ; but
there are so many traits in his character especially
his winter cough  which remind one of the lower
animals."

Poor old Pater," sighed Jack, with a touch of
feeling. He was not often at home. ' Would you
believe it, that he was once almost a gentleman ?
Yes, I remember, an early period in my life when
I was not ashamed to own him. But when a fellow
has been travelling steadily down hill for fifteen
years, his ultimate level must be uncommonly low."

True," sighed Mopsy, " we have always tried to

rise superior to our surroundings ; but it lias been
a terrible struggle'

' There have been summer evenings, when that
wretched slavey has been out with her young
man, that I have been sorely tempted to fetch the
beer with my own hands  there is a jug and
bottle entrance at the place where we deal  but I
have suffered agonies of thirst rather than so lower
myself' said Dopsy, with the complacence of conscious
heroism.

Right you are' said Jack who would sooner
have fetched beer in the very eye of society than
gone without it ; " one must draw the line somewheres'


And to go from a paradise like this to such a
den as that' exclaimed Dopsy still harping on the
unloveliness of the Publico lodging.

Cheer up, old girl. I daresay Mrs. T. will ask
you again. She's very good-natured''

She has behaved like an angel to us' answered
Dopsy, "but I can't make her out. There's a
mystery somewhere."

There's always a skeleton in the cupboard.

Don't you try to haul old Bony out' said the
philosophical Captain.

This was after luncheon, when Jack and his
sisters had the billiard-room to themselves. Mr.
Tregonell was in his study, making things straight
with his bailiff, coachman, butler, in his usual
business-like and decisive manner. Mr. FitzJesse
was packing his portmanteau, meaning to sleep that
night at Penzance. He was quite shrewd enough
to be conscious of the tempest in the air, and was
not disposed to inflict himself upon his friends in
the hour of trouble, or to be bored by having to
sympathize with them in their affliction.

He had studied Mrs. Tregonell closely, and he
had made up his mind that conduct which was out
of harmony with her character must needs be
inspired by some powerful motive. He had heard
the account of her first engagement  knew all
about little Fishky  and he had been told the
particulars of her first lover's death. It was not
difficult for so astute an observer of human nature
to make out the rest of the story.

Little Monty had been invited to go as far as

Southampton with the travellers. The St. Aubyns
declared that home-duties had long been demanding
their attention and that they must positively leave
next day.

Mr. Faddie accepted an invitation to accompany
them and spend a week at their fine old
place on the other side of the county thus , without
any trouble on ChristabeFs part her house
was cleared for her. When she came down to
luncheon next day, two or three hours after the
departure of Leonard and his party, who were to
spend that night at Plymouth, with some idea of
an evening at the theatre on the part of Mop and
Dop, she had only the St. Aubyns and Mr. Faddie
to entertain. Even they were on the wing, as the
carriage which was to convey them to Bodmin
Road Station was ordered for three o'clock in the
afternoon.

ChristabeFs pale calm face showed no sign of
the mental strain of the last twenty-four hours.
There was such a relief in having done with the
false life which she had been leading in the past
month ; such an infinite comfort in being able to

fall back into her old self; such an unspeakable
relief too, in the sense of having saved herself on.
the very brink of the black gulf of sin , that it was
almost as if peace and gladness had returned to her
soul. Once again she had sought for comfort at
the one Divine source of consolation ; once more she
had dared to pray ; and this tardy resumption of
the old sweet habit of girlhood seemed like a return
to some dear home from which she had been long
banished. Even those who knew so little of her
real character were able to see the change in her
countenance.

"What a lovely expression Mrs. Tregonell has
to-day V' murmured Mr. Faddie to his neighbour,
Mrs. St. Aubyn, tenderly replenishing her hock
glass, as a polite preliminary to filling his own.
'' So soft ; so Madonna-like V

I suppose she is rather sorry for having driven
away her husbands said Mrs. St. Aubyn, severely.
That has sobered here's

There are depths in the human soul which only
the confessor can sounds' answered Mr. Faddie,
who would not be betrayed into saying anything

uncivil about his hostess. " Would that she might
be led to pour her griefs into an ear attuned to
every note in the diapason of sorrow. ''

 I done approve of confession, and I never shall
bring myself to like it"* said Mrs. St. Aubyn,
sturdily. " It is un-english \"

But your Rubric, dear lady. Surely you stand
by your Rubric ?'

If you mean the small print paragraphs in my
prayer book, I never read em, answered the
Squire's wife, bluntly. " I hope I know my way
through the Church Service without any help of
that kinder.

Faddie sighed at this Boeotian ignorance,
and went on with his luncheon. It might be long
before he partook of so gracious a meal. A woman
whose Church views were so barbarous as those of
Mrs. St. Aubyn, might keep a table of primitive
coarseness. A Squire Metternich kind of fare
might await him in the St. Aubyn mansion.

An hour later, he pressed ChristabcFs hand
tenderly as he bade her good-bye. " A thousand
thanks for your sweet hospitality," he murmured,

gently. ' This visit has been most precious to me.
It has been a privilege to be brought nearer the
lives of those blessed martyrs, Saint Sergius and
Saint Bacchus ; to renew my acquaintance with dear
Saint Mertheriana, whose life I only dimly remembered
; to kneel at the rustic shrines of Saint Roulette
and Saint Pisan. It has been a period of mental
growth, the memory of which I shall ever value."

And then, with a grave uplifting of two fingers,
and a blessing on the house, Mr. Faddie went off
to his place beside Clara St. Aubyn, on the back
seat of the landau which was to convey the departing
guests to the Bodmin Road Station, a two-hours
drive through the brisk autumn air.

And thus, like the shadowy figures in a dissolving
view, ChristabeFs guests melted away, and she and
Jessie Bridgeman stood alone in the grand old hall
which had been of late so perverted from its old
sober air and quiet domestic uses. Her first act
as the carriage drove away was to fling one of the
casements wide open.

Open the other windows, Jessie," she said impetuously
; ' all of them".

Do you know that the wind is in the east T'

I know that it is pure and sweet, the breath of
Heaven blowing over hill and sea, and that it is
sweeping away the tainted atmosphere of the last
month, the poison of scandal, and slang, and
cigarettes, and billiard-marker talk, and all that is
most unlovely in life. Oh, Jessie, thank God you
and I are alone together, and the play is played
out.

Did you see your husband to-day before he
left?

No, Why should we meet any more ? What
can we two have to say to each other V*

"Then he left his home without a word from
you,-' said Jessie with a shade of wonder.

His homes repeated Christabel ; " the home in
which his poor mother thought it would be my lotto
make his life good and happy. If she could
know  but no  thank God the dead are at peace.
No, Jessie, he did not go without one word from
me. I wrote a few lines of farewell. I told him
I had prayed to my God for power to pity and
forgive him, and that pity and pardon had come tome.

I implored him to make Ms future life one
long atonement for that fatal act last year. I who
had sinned so deeply had no right to take a high
tone. I spoke to him as a sinner to a sinners'

I hope he does repent  that he will atones
said Miss Bridgeman, gloomily. * His life is in his
own keeping. Thank God that you and I are rid
of him, and can live the rest of our days in
peace."

Very quietly flows the stream of life at Mount
Royal now that these feverish scenes have passed
into the shadow of the days that are no more.
Christabel devotes herself to the rearing of her boy,
lives for him, thinks for him, finds joy in his boyish
pleasures, grieves for his boyish griefs, teaches him,
walks with him, rides with him, watches and nurses
him in every childish illness, and wonders that her
life is so full of peace and sunshine. The memory of
a sorrowful past can never cease to be a part of her
life. All those scenes she loves best in this world,
the familiar places amidst which her quiet days are
spent, are haunted by one mournful shadow; but

she loves the hills and the sea-shore only the dearer
for that spiritual presence-which follows her in
the noontide and the gloaming, for ever reminding
her, amidst the simple joys of the life she knows,
of that unknown life where the veil shall be lifted,
and the lost shall be found.

Major Bree is her devoted friend and adviser,
idolizes the boy, and just manages to prevent his
manliness deteriorating under the pressure of
womanly indulgence and womanly fears. Jessie
has refused that faithful admirer a second time, but
Christabel has an idea that he means to tempt his
fate again, and in the end must prevail, by sheer
force of goodness and fidelity.

Kneeling by Angus Harleigh's grave, little Leo
hears from his mother's lips how the dead man
loved him, and bequeathed his fortune to him. The
mother endeavours to explain in simplest, clearest
words how the wealth so entrusted to him should
be a sacred charge, never to be turned to evil uses
or squandered in self-indulgence.

You will try to do good when you are a man,
won't you, Leo V she asks smiling down at the

bright young face, which shines like a sunbeam in
its childish gladness.

Yes/ he answers confidently. " Til give Uncle
Jakes tobacco."

This is his widest idea of benevolence at the
present stage of his development.

