CHAPTER I.

A FAMILY PICTURE.

" Having a house larger than they require"  you
must say that, mother,' said Bah, sitting on the
floor, with clasped hands resting on her knees, and
her knees on a level with the prettiest chin in
Camberwell. ' It's the correct thing.'

Only sixty words allowed for five shillings,'
said Mrs. Trevornock, looking up distractedly from
an original composition, which she was inditing
with the assistance of her two daughters.

But you really ought to put it, mother,' cried
Flossie, on her knees beside the table. 'It's the
only thing that takes off the edge of one's humiliation.
" A lady and her daughters, having a
house larger than they require, are willing  " '

VOL. I. B

" Will be happy," ' suggested the mother.
'No, mother; that's a great deal too humble,'

said Flossie. ' That's making oneself much too
cheap. Do make it 'rare willing." '

Very well, dear. It will be over sixty words,
I'm sure. "Are willing to receive a gentleman as
partial boarder." '

Partial boarder !' echoed Bab, making a wry
face, but not able to make an ugly one. ' Partial
boarder ! Isn't it a horrid expression !'

" Bedroom large and airy." '

Large and airy,' repeated Flossie musingly ;
I wonder what really constitutes a large bedroom
in the idea of a person brought up, say, in .'


People brought up in Grosvenor-square could
never sink so low as to be partial boarders,' said
Bab. 'Don't fritter away our time upon such
idiotic remarks.'

" Bedroom large and airy," ' repeated Mrs.
Trevornock, dwelling upon this statement as if it
were an original idea; ' " use of sitting-room, dinner
on Sundays. Family musical." '

Won't you add that we have seen better days,
mother, since you seem bent on being biographical?'
suggested Flossie.

Mrs. Trevornock laughed good-humouredly at
this pert sally. She was always ready to laugh at
her daughter's smallest jokes, and their inherent
impertinence had been fostered by maternal indulgence.
They were as poor as Job, this mother and
her two daughters ; but as far as indulgence went,
Flossie and Bab had been brought up under glass.

Yes, they were poor, absolutely poor ; not in the
sense accepted by society, which means that people
have fifteen hundred a year and would like to spend
three thousand, or have three thousand and find
life intolerable because they have not six. Mrs.
Trevornock and her two daughters managed to face
life upon a reliable income of something under a
hundred and fifty pounds a year. They had occasional
windfalls, or the problem might have proved
insoluble ; but after reckoning these casual inlets
of money, the total of their income rarely reached
two hundred pounds a year : but this was before
the Crimean war, and the cost of living was less

in those days than it is now. Yet their poverty
never degenerated into ugliness. The little semi-detached
house at Camberwell  rent, twenty-five
pounds per annum  had a dainty prettiness
not always attainable by people of larger means.
The mother and daughters were so fond of each
other, and so fond of their home, that the whole
of life was sweetened by this overflowing fountain
of love. They were always trying to surprise
each other with some improvement in house or
garden, were it only a shilling rose-bush planted
in the border, or a penny bunch of violets in a vase
on the mantelpiece. They were industrious, ingenious,
temperate. They cared very little how
they dined, but they cared very much about the
house in which they lived. Ugliness and dirt were
loathsome to them. The semi-detached cottage at
Camberwell was as clean and pure as a homestead
far away in a pastoral land, remote from the smoke
of cities. Mrs. Trevornock's existence was a perpetual
warfare against 'the blacks;' not an oppressed
negro race, but those wandering atoms of solidified
smoke which came floating on the wings of the

wind from the tall chimneys of Lambeth and Bermondsey.


South-lane, Camberwell, is one of those places
which progress has doubtless eradicated from the
face of the earth. Progress means building-land at
two thousand pounds an acre, houses in serried
ranks, close as a square of infantry, mere packing-cases
set on end, with just as much garden to each
as would serve as drying-ground for half a dozen
pocket-handkerchiefs. South-lane knew nothing of
progress. It had come into being at an Arcadian
period of the world's history, when land about
Camberwell was of little more than agricultural
value. The houses, villas, cottages, what you will,
were various in architecture, and set in gardens that
were extensive as compared with the gardens of
to-day. The lane described a gracious curve, and
made a vista of greenery as seen from either end.
Trees grew and flourished  hawthorn and lilac,
lime and sycamore, sweet bay and Portugal laurel.
There were good tenants and bad, gardens neatly
kept and gardens neglected, but the general effect
was prettiness and rusticity.

The advertisement appeared in the Times, and
about three days after its publication  days spent
by Mrs. Trevornock and her daughters in a flutter
of expectation  a partial boarder  one only  addressed
himself to the advertiser, who had discreetly
veiled her identity under initials, letters to be
addressed to ' F. T.,' 20 South-lane, Camberwell.


One letter, only one poor little letter !' cried
Bab, running in from the hall, where the letters
fell through a slit in the door on to the floor-cloth.
* But it looks rather aristocratic'

Mrs. Trevornock broke the seal with a nervous
hand, while the two girls pressed round her as if
their most vital interests were at stake.

The letter had a gentlemanlike appearance,
sealed with a neat crest, written on thick creamy
paper in a firm hand.

Mother,' cried Flossie, pointing excitedly, ' look
at the address ! It must be from some one of
consequence.'

East India United Service Club.' Those were
the mystic words which had excited Flossie. To

her simple mind a man who belonged to a club
must needs be a superior order of being.

mother,' she exclaimed dolefully, while her
bright blue eyes made a circuit of the little room,
*we shall never be good enough for him. I'm
afraid we made the advertisement too attractive. I
daresay he will expect to find us in a mansion.'

*As if people in mansions ever wanted partial
boarders !' cried Bab, with a practical air. ' Everyone
knows that a partial boarder is a genteel contrivance
meant to eke out a small income.'

Mrs. Trevornock read the letter aloud deliberately.
They had all three devoured it with their
eyes the moment it was opened.

Captain Leland' (' 0, what a pretty name !' cried
Flossie) 'presents his compliments to F. T., and
will be glad of an interview at F. T.'s earliest convenience.
 East India United Service Club, St.
James's-square, Tuesday morning.'

'He doesn't say that he'll come,' said Flossie.
Of course not,' retorted Bab. * He'll come and
look at us  '

Don't say us,' remonstrated Flossie. ' I shall
not be in the room when he calls.'

Nor I, of course. I mean that he will come
and survey mother, and the house, and the neighbourhood,
and our maid-of-all-work, and the large
airy bedroom ; and if he doesn't think it all worth
a guinea a week, with dinner on Sundays, he will
not take up his residence with us. I wonder
whether he'll ask you what kind of Sunday dinners
you mean to give him, mother  whether you have
your joints roasted or send them to the bakehouse.
I daresay a club-man would object to the bakehouse.'

Not if he were very hungry and met a shoulder
of mutton coming home on the top of a batter-pudding,'
said Flossie, with conviction.

I suppose we shall have to dine late on Sundays,
and become quite fashionable in our habits,'
said Bab. * Come, mother darling, take your nicest
sheet of paper, and write a pretty note to Captain
Leland. I daresay his name is the best part of
him.'

Perhaps he is old and ugly,' suggested Flossie,
her enthusiasm suddenly evaporating.

He must be poor,' said Bab. ' No one who .
wasn't poor would offer himself as a partial border  Ct I
to get his breakfast in one place, and his dinner in
another  cutting himself in half, as it were.'

An excellent arrangement for a club-man,'
replied Mrs. Trevornock, who was inclined to take
a cheerful view of the question. * Of course he
will always dine at his club.'

On the days when he does dine,' said Flossie.
Perhaps he will contrive to skip his dinner sometimes,
and revenge himself upon our tea. That
will be dreadful.'

Mrs. Trevornock answered Captain Leland's
note, appointing the following afternoon at three
o'clock for the interview, ' if quite convenient to
Captain Leland,' she added politely.

The two girls went out together to post the
letter, and to make various small purchases of
household stores in the Camberwell-road. They
performed this domestic duty daily, thereby saving
time for the one servant, a healthy round-faced
Devonshire girl, answering to the name of Amelia,
who, with Mrs. Trevornock's supervision, and a

good deal of actual help from the same lady, contrived
to keep the house in immaculate order, a
bright example to neighbouring householders.

The girls talked about Captain Leland all the
way to the post-office. Their lives travelled in
such a narrow circle that the smallest incident
became a subject for inexhaustible talk. They
read a good deal, and were by no means unintelligent
or shallow ; but they could not always talk
about books. There was an impetuous humanity
in them which made it necessary to them now
and then to be interested in people. Their
acquaintances might be numbered on their fingers,
and the people they knew were not brilliant. Indeed
they might fairly have come under Carlyle's
sweeping category : they were ' mostly fools.' A
mother and two daughters living upon something
less than two hundred a year were not in a position
to cultivate a large circle of friends, or to
find their society in eager request among the salt
of the earth. If Mrs. Trevornock and her two
girls were invited to a tea-party once in six weeks,
or to a friendly dinner once a quarter, they considered

themselves fairly favoured by the attention
of their friends. There were occasional droppings,
casual tea-drinkings, which enlivened the interval
between such deliberate invitations ; so that
life was not altogether dreary.

I feel sure he is old and ugly,' said Flossie, for
about the twentieth time, as they crossed Addington-square.


'Don't be so dreary,' remonstrated Bab. 'Let
us amuse ourselves by making the wildest images of
him for the next four-and-twenty hours. To-morrow
at three o'clock we shall know the worst ; for of
course we shall contrive to see him, though he won't
be allowed to see us.'
'Naturally.'

Let us imagine him like Rochester in Jane
Eyre:

Dark as Erebus, and with a heavy under-jaw ;
making the rudest speeches for the first week or so,
and then falling desperately in love with one of us,'
said Flossie, in a rush of eager words. ' Of course
it would be you, Bab.*
Why should it be T

Because you are ever so much prettier than I am.*

Am I, Flossie ? Then I think I ought to be
very conceited, for you're the prettiest girl I know.'

You know so few girls,' said Flossie deprecatingly,
and blushing all over her face, even at a sister's
compliment.

Flossie was not unworthy of praise, though she
was right when she described her sister as the prettier.
They might be called the positive and the
comparative degrees of beauty. Flossie's eyes were
blue and bright ; Flossie's hair was auburn with
golden gleams in it ; Flossie's figure was graceful in
outline. But there was that in Barbara's face which
belonged to a higher kind of beauty. Barbara's eyes
were darkest gray, with long black lashes. Barbara
had the white-rose complexion, pure, almost colourless,
which is of all beauties the rarest. People who
passed the two girls in the street were apt to think
Flossie the prettier. Her brilliant complexion aud
bright hair caught the eye.

The letter was posted, the shopping was done,
the four-and-twenty hours of doubt and expectancy
were lived through somehow ; and at three o'clock

on the following afternoon Bab and Flossie were hiding
themselves behind the chintz curtain of an upstairs
window, watching for rochester.'

The clock of the church by the canal struck the
hour, and the last stroke had hardly died away when
the girls saw the top of a hat above the Portugal
laurels of the next-door garden.

He must be an old fogey, or he would never be
so punctual,' said Flossie, with a disgusted air.

'Rochester was never punctual in his life,' said
Bab, also disgusted.

The stranger was at the gate by this time, a
white five-barred gate, which swung back easily ashe
pushed it.

He is quite 3'oung !' cried Bab.

'Dark!'

TaU !'

Good-looking!'

With a moustache !'

A moustache was a rare adornment in those days.
It might be taken to mean one of three things  a
cavalry of&cer, a foreigner, or a swindler.

I hope he's respectable,' said Bab doubtfully.

He's very good-looking,' said Flossie.

The stranger came along the gravel walk ; it was
a semicircular sweep, which Mrs. Trevornock talked
of complacently as a carriage-drive. A very clever
coachman might have succeeded in turning a one-horse
chaise within that gravelled area without absolute
destruction to the vehicle or the parlour window ;
but for prudential reasons, vehicles were mostly
pulled up outside the gate.

Little did the partial boarder wot of those four
bright eyes concentrating all their seeing power upon
the top of his hat as he knocked a resolute double-knock
at Mrs. Trevornock's door. He was contemplating
the house and its surroundings, pleased with
the rural quiet of the scene, the blossoming hawthorns,
golden laburnum, and all the flowers of the
sweet May time. The exterior view of the house
suggested comfort, and even a modest elegance.

It would be better than living in a smoky London
street,' Captain Leland said to himself, ' and it
would be cheaper into the bargain. The walk from
here to the clubs would not hurt my long legs.'

The little maid-of-all-work opened the door, neat

and trim in her afternoon gown and smart cap. servants
wore caps in the days before the Crimean war.
Breathing hard, as in some terrible strait, the maiden
ushered the stranger into the drawing-room, where
Mrs. Trevornock, who had seated herself just three
minutes before, flushed after a hasty toilet, rose to
receive him.

What did Captain Leland see in the little ,
fifteen feet by twelve and a half, lighted by
one wide French window, looking out upon the semicircular
grass-plat girdled with shrubs ? He saw a
woman who was evidently a lady. He saw a room
which assuredly belonged to ladies. The sweet face,
a little faded, but still very sweet, which greeted
him with an engaging smile, pleased him at once.
The room pleased him as well as its mistress. The
old-fashioned furniture was well worn, but not shabby.
The open piano and book-shelves, the spring flowers
and modest array of old china, suggested tastefulness
and love of home. Captain Leland had been at large
in the wide world long enough to reverence even the
abstract idea of home  how much more the reality !

The first few questions and answers were embarrassing.

The gentleman stammered, and traced the
pattern of the carpet with the feruie of his cane, the
lady replied hesitatingly. This kind of barter was
new to both of them. But when the sordid question
of terms had been settled, they gradually grew more
at ease, and then came a burst of frankness from the
Captain.

I am sure I shall like to live here,' he said pleasantly
: * I am home on leave from India, and as all
my people are in the depths of the country, I have
been living in West-end lodgings, and spending most
of my time at my club. I have been far from comfortable.
West-end lodgings are always dear, and
sometimes dirty. Mine are decidedly dirty. A
club is an immense convenience to a single man ;
but one may have too much of it.'

I am afraid you will find this rather dull after
the West-end,' said Mrs. Trevornock.

Not I. West-end gaiety for me only means the
noise of perpetual carriage-wheels, and footmen
knocking double-knocks. I know very few people in
London, and don't care much about visiting those I
do know.'

Mrs. TreYornock looked at the Captain wonderingly,
as if this admission of his savoured of eccentricity.
A military man, young, good-looking, ought
to be in the very maelstrom of society, she considered.
He should be in request at the drums of duchesses,
admitted to the receptions of Cabinet Ministers. She
began to fear there might be something wrong about
Captain Leland.

0, by the way, with regard to references,' said
the Captain, almost as if he divined her doubts.
There was something in your advertisement about
references, I remember. I can refer you to my
banker. He will be happy to answer any questions.
Not because he has a large balance in my favour,
but because he is a very good-natured fellow,' added
Captain Leland, with that engaging frankness which
had already won Mrs. Trevornock's regard.

'I am sure that will be all-sufficient,' she murmured,
without waiting to hear the banker's name.
But the advertisement said references exchanged.
If you would like to call upon the incumbent of St.
George's  '

Not the slightest necessity. I am a waif and

VOL. I. C

stray. You have a right to ask for my credentials ;
but you are a householder  and a lady.'

You would like to see the bedroom, no doubt
said Mrs. Trevornock, trying to be business-like;
and then she rang the bell, and Amelia, who had
been carefully drilled in her part, escorted Captain
Leland up the pretty little staircase to the 'large
and airy' bedroom, overlooking half an acre of flower
and vegetable garden, a canal, a stretch of open
ground, and a conglomeration of roofs, melting away
into the thickness of London smoke.

The two girls in the front room were in a flutter
as the Captain's manly footstep came up the single
flight of stairs. He spoke to the servant, and they
heard his voice for the first time  a deep full voice,
pleasant of sound to Bab and Flossie.

Do you think he really means to come ?' asked
Bab.

No,' answered Flossie ; ' he is much too stylish.
We are not good enough for him.'

But he has been a long time talking with
mother.'

Idle curiosity,' exclaimed Flossie contemptuously.

She was trying to steel herself against disappointment.


The Captain's inspection of the bedroom lasted
exactly two minutes. The window opened at top
and bottom, and there was a chimney, so the airiness
of the chamber was beyond question. Size is a
matter of degree. The Captain had seen many
larger rooms, but this one looked as clean as a new
pin, and he was languishing for speedy escape from
West-end grime and frowsiness. He went downstairs
completely satisfied.

*Ah,' cried Flossy,  of course he'll tell poor
mother that he'll take a day or two to think it over,
and then he'll go away and forget all about us. I
know what such people are capable of.'

They waited breathlessly for five minutes, when
the hall-door shut with a bang, and then they precipitated
themselves down stairs headlong. If they
had not been very young and very familiar with that
staircase they must have arrived in the hall with
broken necks.

Well !' gasped both girls simultaneously.

Mrs. Trevornock tried to look serious. She

would have liked to have had her little joke with
them, and to have kept them on tenter-hooks fora
few minutes ; but her satisfaction broke out on her
countenance in irrepressible radiance.

He is coming ?' cried her daughters, still simultaneous.


Yes, he is coming,' admitted the mother ; * and
he is so friendly and gentlemanlike. I am sure we
shall all like him.'

We shall have to be tremendously well-behaved,'
said Flossie, becoming suddenly doubtful as to the
unqualified delight of having a gentlemanlike boarder.
I am afraid Captain Leland will put a stop to a
good deal of our fun.'

Well, of course we shall not talk quite so much
nonsense as we have been in the habit of talking,'
admitted Mrs. Trevornock. ' We must behave seriously
when he is at home ; but we can make up for
it when he is away. He has his club, you know. I
daresay we shall see very little of him.'

'No doubt,' said Flossie, again dubious.

The Captain had left his card. Barbara saw and
pounced upon it.

H.E.I.C.S.,' she read. ' What does that mean ?'

Honourable East India Company's Service,' said
Mrs. Trevornock, proud of her superior knowledge.

Why, then he isn't a real soldier after all !' said
Flossie indignantly; whereupon her mother hastened
to explain that the Honourable East India Company's
Service was every whit as good as the Queen's.

Your cousin Walter Smythe was in the Company's
service, Flossie. You ought to remember.'

I suppose I ought. But as I never saw my
cousin Walter in my life, I can hardly be expected
to feel deeply interested in him.'

Mrs. Trevornock assented with a gentle sigh.
The Trevornocks of South-lane, Camberwell, were
those social pariahs, poor relations. They belonged
to a good old Cornish family, and were very proud
of their ancient and eminently respectable lineage.
They had uncles and cousins in both services, uncles
and cousins well planted in the garden of the
Church ; but of all these well-placed kindred it was
their destiny to see but little. The rich Trevornocks
were not unkind or unfeeling. If they had been, the
poor Trevornocks could hardly have gone on existing,

for it was partly to periodical remittances from
her well-to-do relations that Mrs. Trevornock owed
her means of living. But there was a gulf. Letters
were frequently exchanged. When the well-placed
Trevornocks came up to town, they made a point of
calling in South-lane. Mrs. Trevornock and her
daughters were even asked to a family dinner. But
there it ended.

Mrs. Trevornock had been a Miss O'Keilly, the
portionless daughter of a popular West-end physician,
Irish by birth, English by culture. The doctor lived
long enough to marry his daughter to a younger son
of old Mrs. Trevornock of Treeless, near Bodmin 
a young man who was beginning life brilliantly as a
junior partner in a first-class firm of City solicitors
and died at peace with himself and the world just
six months before young Trevornock went utterly to
the bad, and proved himself at once and for ever the
black sheep of his highly respectable family.

When is he coming, mother ?' asked Flossie,
who was the more eager of the two sisters for all
things promising change and excitement.

To-morrow.'

Bab made a wry face.

Only one more evening of our sweet liberty,'
she said. *I wish Captain H.E.I.C.S. was at
Jericho.'

You know you don't mean it,' protested Flossie.
You'd be woful disappointed if he were to write
and say he had changed his mind.'

Well, perhaps I should,' admitted Bab. ' It
will be rather exciting to have a real live military
man in the house.'

Bab concluded by waltzing lightly round the
room on the tips of her toes, almost as cleverly as a
trained opera-dancer. She had practised standing
on her toes many a time when she had nothing todo,
and life seemed particularly flat and empty.

Mamma,' said Flossie, ' as this is to be our last
evening alone, we ought to have a scrumptious tea.'

You mustn't say scrumptious before Captain
Leland,' said Bab. ' You will have to forget all your
horrid slang words.'

Shall I ? I hope he will teach me a lot of new
ones. Now, mother dear, what shall we have for
tea ? Bloaters ?'

'Bloaters!' cried Bab, with a disgusted look.
The smell of them wouldn't be gone for a week. I
vote for strawberry-jam, or one of mother's pound-cakes
hot out of the oven  such a cake as you made
us last Sunday, ma darling.'

Mrs. Trevornock looked down at her black-silk
gown, her one really good gown, the gown she wore
in society.

I must change my gown if I am to make a
cake.'

Of course, ma. You wouldn't think of wearing
that lovely dress all the evening. We shouldn't feel
at home with you if you did. We should have to
put on company-manners.'

Mrs. Trevornock never denied her daughters
anything ; so the grand gown was exchanged for
every-day raiment, and they all three swarmed into
the neat little kitchen  not a loathsome blackberry
underground den, but a room looking into the garden,
and all a-glitter with shining tins and coppers.
Here there was much joyful chatter while the cake
was being made, the noisiest beating of eggs, a wild
dance with the flour-dredger, a general ebullition of

high spirits on the part of both girls, and much
good-humoured laughter from the light-hearted
mother, who thought her children the wittiest and
wisest examples of their species, as well as the loveliest
and the best.

Never was a happier meal than that six-o'clock
tea in the snug back parlour, opening, with one long
French window, into the old-fashioned garden, where,
six-and-twenty years ago, the roses grew and thrived
as they would hardly thrive in the smokier Camberwell
of to-day. There were no roses yet a while. It
was the middle of May, and still cold enough for an
evening fire.

So the mother and daughters sat by their snug
hearth, and drank strong tea and ate hot buttered
cake, with a reckless disregard of possible
damage to their digestive organs, and chattered to
their hearts' content.

Of course they discussed Captain Leland. Mrs.
Trevornock was made to describe him minutely.
The impression conveyed by her description was
not altogether pleasing.

'Very dark, burnt almost copper-colour,' repeated

Flossie. ' Why, mamma, he must be hideous.
I hope he isn't a native.'

Of course he is,' said Bab. ' He must be a
native of somewhere.'

I mean an actual Indian. I thought his complexion
looked dreadfully like the best coal scuttle ashe
came up the garden.'

*It's only the effect of an Indian sun.'

'Don't say that, mamma,' protested Flossie.
As if they had a different sun in India !'

And the black moustache carries off the darkness
of his skin,' added Mrs. Trevornock.

'A moustache is heavenly, if one can only be
sure it's respectable,' said Flossie.

'Mother,' said Bab, 'what will aunt Sophia say
when she hears you have taken a gentleman-boarder
?'

'I hardly know how to tell her,' faltered Mrs.
Trevornock. ' I shall have a dreadful letter.'

One of her lecturing letters,' said Flossie.
"'My dearest Flora, how could you ?" I know
them so well. She will tell you that, with two
young daughters, you ought not to allow a man

under ninety across your threshold; that in your
position you cannot be too careful ; that to take a
boarder of any kind is in a manner to humiliate and
degrade your family ; that if you felt yourself constrained
to take a boarder, you ought to have
chosen an elderly Christian lady who wanted a quiet
home. Yes, mother, you are in for it.'

Aunt Sophia was a maiden lady, who lived in a
pretty house of her own just outside Exeter, a house
with just enough land about it to be called a ' seat,'
ant to enable its possessor to figure respectably in
Burke's Landed Gentry. The best society of Exeter,
save in its ecclesiastical elements, was hardly good
enough for Miss Trevornock of Maitland ; but she
visited widely among the county families, and to her
mind all that was best and loftiest and most severely
proper upon earth lay within a twenty-mile radius of
Maitland. She was a good woman, according to
her lights, kindly disposed, affectionate, accomplished,
with a turn for elegant literature ; but she
could not see beyond that twenty-mile radius. Her
mind was narrowed to the limit of her own little
world and its little set of inhabitants. She saw all

things from their standpoint, and was always asking
herself what her own particular friends would think
upon any given subject. Their opinions she accepted
as her law. All the great names that made the
century famous were as nothing when weighed in
the balance with ' county people.'

It must be supposed that such a lady would
look with anxious eyes towards that unconventional
household at Camberwell. She was fond of her
sister-in-law, but she never knew what dear Flora
might do. Flora was impulsive ; Flora was imprudent
; worst of all, Flora was poor ; and if Flora did
anything foolish or degrading, be sure the county
families would hear of it. The thing would get
known somehow, by one of those unlucky coincidences
which we call strange, yet which seem to bethe
common law of daily life.

THE PARTIAL BOARDER.

George Leland, unconscious of the sensation he
had made in the family nest, appeared in due time
at the cottage in South-lane. Laburnum Cottage
was the name painted on the gate-post, in unpretending
white upon black. The garden looked bright
and pretty in the afternoon sunshine, the modest
little entrance-hall was beautified with a bowl of
wallflowers and purple iris, everything looked exquisitely
pure and clean  most refreshingly so to
the deserter from the aristocratic tents of the West-end.


*I had no idea Camberwell was such a nice
place,' said Captain Leland pleasantly, when he had
shaken hands with Mrs. Trevornock. ' You positively
seem in the country.'

Here he became aware of two slim figures shrinking
from sight in the next room ; the folding-doors
between the two sitting-rooms were open, affording

a spacious apartment, and giving a full view of that
dear old back garden, with its wide grass-plat and
background of apple-trees.

'My daughters,' murmured Mrs. Trevornock :
Captain Leland,  Miss Trevornock, Miss Florence
Trevornock.'

Hereupon came more handshaking. Flossie
vowed afterwards that the Captain blushed vehemently.
Perhaps he did. His bronzed cheek may
have flushed with sudden wonderment. He had not
expected to find anything so beautiful as Barbara
Trevornock within the confines of Camberwell. It
would not do to stand stock-still and stare at her,
like a man bereft of reason ; so he pulled himself
together, and said something.

You seem to have quite a large garden,' he
remarked.

Yes ; it is large for a garden so near London,'
Mrs. Trevornock admitted modestly ; ' perhaps you
would like to walk round it.'

Very much ; but I'd better go and settle with
the cabman first,' said the Captain, coming back to
every-day life and its responsibilities.

His portmanteaux were in the act of being carried
up-stairs, and were being bumped audibly at every
step. He ran out, saw that his belongings were
safe, paid the man lavishly, and hurried back to the
little drawing-room, where the three ladies, carefully
attired in their second-best gowns, were waiting for
him and wondering what he would do next.

I half promised Elliot to meet him at the club
at seven,' he said to himself, with a surreptitious
glance at his watch ; ' but I hardly feel inclined to
go back to town to dine.'

They all went into the garden in the stateliest
manner possible. It was a large garden for Camberwell,
as Mrs. Trevornock had remarked, but scarcely
large enough for stateliness. The neat gravel walks
were narrow. People walking two and two were
obliged to be rather near together. There was a
long border full of roses, and good old-fashioned
perennials  columbine and lupins, larkspur, peonies,
iris. There was the square grass-plat, almost
worthy to be called a lawn ; and beyond that
smooth expanse of turf there came an bespattered
boundary, screening a not unpicturesque kitchen-garden,

where good old orchard-trees grew high
above the asparagus-beds and cabbage-rows. An old
brick wall divided the garden from the canal that
flowed outside it. Seen from the upper windows the
canal had a picturesque effect. Mrs. Trevornock,
who was inclined to see the romantic as well as the
humorous side of everything, said the garden and
canal in spring-time reminded her of Holland. She
had never been in Holland, but that country was
vividly represented in her pictorial mind.

Captain Leland walked by Mrs. Trevornock's
side along the narrow pathway. Bab and Flossie
strayed off arm-in-arm upon the grass, talking in
low voices, and very much inclined to giggle.

Do let us behave like young ladies, if we can,'
said Bab, giving the irrepressible Flossie's arm a
ferocious grip.

Barbara, you are pinching me black and blue.'

I would do anything rather than let you disgrace
yourself. What do you think of him ?'

'Divinely handsome!' cried Flossie, always in
extremes.

Nonsense ! He is not bad-looking. I rather

like that bronzed complexion : one would paint him
with a wash of warm sepia. The thick black moustache
is picturesque, too; in fact, the man's whole
air is picturesque. Flossie, don't go and elevate
him into a hero. You are so ridiculously romantic.
But he really is  just a little  like Rochester.
Don't you think so ?'

Not a bit,' answered Flossie decisively. ' He is
a great deal better-looking. Because, you know,
however one may let one's enthusiasm run away
with one, if Jane's description was faithful, Edward
Fairfax Rochester was a guy. It was his ways that
fascinated her. There was something so delightful
in his weariness, so original in his incivility.'

Captain Leland was coming across the grass
towards them, talking to their mother as he came.
Yes, he was decidedly good-looking  dark hair and
darker eyes ; features large and boldly cut, but
regular ; a fine frank smile ; a lofty carriage of the
head ; and the air of a man accustomed to command :
a man essentially manly, essentially soldier-like  a
soldier by vocation, not for convenience. Had those
two girls, glancing at him shyly from the vine-vol.

I.

wreathed arbour to which they had withdrawn themselves,
had Bab and Flossie known half that his
brother-officers could have told them about George
Leland, they would have esteemed him a far more
romantic personage than Edward Rochester, at best
but an unprincipled Yorkshire squire, who had made
a failure of his life, and had a very low idea of a
man's career or a man's duty in this world.

I don't wonder that you are fond of your garden,'
said Captain Leland. ' It is as pretty as anything I
remember in Somersetshire.'

Somersetshire !' echoed Mrs. Trevornock. ' Do
you come from the West of England ?'

Yes. My people all live in the neighbourhood
of Taunton.'

Mrs. Trevornock sighed.

I know very little of Somerset,' she said. ' My
husband's family belongs to Cornwall. It is a very
old family. A Trevornock was member for the county
in Elizabeth's first Parliament.'

She could not help feeling proud of that one
glory which had been left to her in the days of her
poverty. It was perhaps as well to let the partial

boarder know that they were not common people.
His manner was courteous and respectful ; but, in
his secret soul, he might consider himself the superior.


'* By Tre, Pol, and Pen you may know the Cornishmen,"
' quoted the Captain. ' The name sounds
like a good one. "Were these young ladies born in
Cornwall ?'

xso ; they were born in London.'

Within the sound of Bow Bells, I'm afraid,' said
Flossie, recovering her accustomed pertness as the
soldier's aspect grew familiar, ' though I don't remember
hearing them. I suppose I wasn't listening.'

I'll go and see about the tea,' murmured Mrs.
Trevornock, whose whole life was consumed in seeing
about things. * Will you join us at our six-o'clock
tea. Captain Leland, or have you any engagement
in London ?'

I  I had a kind of engagement,' faltered the
Captain, blushing violently; 'but I think I shall
forget all about it. Yes, I shall be delighted to
drink tea with you.'

Mrs. Trevornock departed, leaving the two girls

and the Captain face to face. It would have been
hard to decide which was the more bashful of the
two, Barbara or Captain Leland. Flossie's indomitable
impudence was not to be dashed so easily.
She was the first to break an awkward silence.

Is India a nice place ?' she asked, with alarming
abruptness.

Bab was twisting a vine-spray in and out of the
lattice, looking down at her work as intently as if
her life depended upon it.

It is a magnificent country ; but I don't know
whether a young lady accustomed to the more refined
civilisation of  '

Camberwell,' interjected Flossie.

Would consider it nice. I liked it well enough,
though I had to work very hard there.'

Fighting battles ?' suggested Flossie.

Not always. That kind of work is the oasis ina
desert of commonplace. In my early Indian days
I had to superintend the building of a hospital ; to
stand about in the sun, watching the men making
bricks ; to show one nigger how to lay his bricks,
when they were made ; to explain to another the

mysteries of screws and nails and hinges. And as
I had never learnt the building business myself, this
required more pluck than spiking a gun. Sometimes
I had to turn my hand to civil engineering, and was
ordered to make a forty-mile road. It was my province
to make myself generally useful. I am glad
to say that I came in for plenty of fighting afterwards
; but I had to make my soldiers, just as I had
made my bricks, and to be drill-sergeant as well as
captain.'

And did you  kill people ?' asked Flossie, struggling
against a look of abhorrence.

Sometimes. If you saw a copper-coloured
scoundrel, a creature scarcely human in his ferocity,
rushing at you like a tiger, yelling " Wah, Gooroo,
ji !" and striking at you with his tulwar, what would
you do ?'

'I think,' said Flossie deliberately, 'I should
run away.'

I stayed, and cut him in two. Unhappily, you
see, a little bloodshed is an unavoidable element in
war. There are occasions when one must either kill
or be killed.'

Flossie felt as if she would hardly enjoy her tea
in the society of such a monster. A good-looking
monster, decidedly. She stole a glance at him from
under her golden-tipped lashes, and made up her
mind that he was letter-looking than the square-howled
Rochester. There was more of the hero and
less of the bulldog about him.

How stupidly Bab was behaving, Flossie thought
indignantly. There she stood, twiddling the vine-tendrils,
and leaving the whole responsibility of the
conversation to her younger sister. This was the
consequence of seeing so little society. Bab, too,
who was supposed to be a genius, who had steeped
herself in Shakespeare and Byron, Buller, Thackeray,
and Dickens, and who wrote verses by the yard. It
was too bad !

Is India a  large place ?' Flossie inquired desperately,
after a minute and a ' half of absolute
silence.

Captain Leland smiled.

Yes, there is a good deal of it,' he said ; ' there
is plenty of elbow-room for fighting. I don't want
to be too geographical ; but tomorrow, if you'll allow

me, I'll show you some sketches of scenery and native
life which I made during my travels in the land of
the five rivers.'

He spoke to Flossie, but he looked at Barbara,
wondering when those lovely lips would find speech.
It seemed as if she understood that look of his, for
she answered him.

'I should like very much to see them,' she said.
Flossie and I are dreadfully ignorant about geography,
and about a good many things. We have
never been at school. Mamma has educated us,
and she is so indulgent, that we have only learned
just what we liked. We did not like geography.'

If you were to ask me where Kamtschatka is, I
couldn't tell you,' said Flossie. * I've a vague idea
that it's one of the cold places. As for latitude and
longitude, I scarcely know what they mean; and
whether the equator goes round the world, or the
world goes round the equator  '

Don't expatiate upon our ignorance, Flossie,' remonstrated
Bab. ' Captain Leland will take it on
trust.'

The all laughed, and after this the ice seemed

to be broken, and they went for a turn round the
garden, Flossie bolting surreptitious green gooseberries
as they passed the bushes. Presently came
the neat little handmaid to tell them that tea was
ready ; and then they all went into the parlour,
where Mrs. Trevornock had prepared an actual banquet.
Cake and toast and thin bread-and-butter ; a
glass jar of marmalade ; a dish of anchovies nestling
in parsley ; the best china ; the best teapot  not
silver, but a very good imitation ; a snowy tablecloth
; a bunch of lilies of the valley in the centre
of the table ; an all-pervading air of comfort, which
no one knew better how to impart to commonplace
things than Mrs. Trevornock.

If we are going to live like this always. Captain
Leland will be our ruin,' thought Flossie.
A guinea a week will never pay for these luxuries.'


What a merry tea-party it was ! Before Captain
Leland had finished his first cup, they were all as
friendly as if they had known one another for years.
He talked of himself freely, as if anxious to make
them acquainted with his antecedents, having no

one to introduce him. But not by one word did he
lead them to suppose that he was in any way superior
to the common run of men, or that he had done
anything to distinguish himself in the profession of
his choice.

He told them that his father was a country
clergyman, whose parish was within seven miles of
Taunton. His father and mother were both living
quiet elderly people, with several sons and daughters,
and no fortune to leave to any of them.

*We have all our own way to make in life,' he
said ; ' and so far, I am thankful to say, we have all
done pretty well. My father gave us a good education,
and left us to do the rest. I was educated at
Shrewsbury and Addiscombe. My two brothers are
in the Church. Three out of my four sisters are
comfortably married. The eldest, Marian, is an old
maid, and the angel in the house.'

Why were you not a clergyman ?' asked Flossie.
What put it into your head to go out to India and
kill people ?'

I hardly know, unless it was reading the life of
Clive.'

Are you not sorry you chose such a ferocious
profession ?'

*No he answered, with his quiet smile; '1 am
glad.'

He told them that, after eight years' service, he
had come home on a twelvemonth's furlough. Six
months were gone. He had spent the greater part
of those months in Somerset, and now he meant to
buckle-to and work hard at Indian languages and
Indian law ; for he had already held important civil
appointments, involving large authority in new districts,
and the post which he was promised on his
return was one that would need him to be a capable
magistrate as well as a daring soldier. He made
Mrs. Trevornock and her daughters laugh at his
stories of native squabbles and native chicaneries.

They sat long at the snug little tea-table in the
glow of the evening fire, the low sunlight fading
gradually behind roofs and chimneys beautified by
distance. Captain Leland, who had lunched lightly,
made a formidable attack on the bread-and-butter.

If he always eats like this, a guinea a week will
go no way,' Flossie said to herself.

Sordid consideration, perhaps, for a pretty girl.
But Barbara and Florence Trevornock had been
reared upon an income so small, that only the nicest
calculations made it sufficient for their modest wants.
They had been bred up with an intense horror of
debt. They were the very soul of honesty, truthful,
confiding, candid, without a particle of false pride.
These every-day virtues Mrs. Trevornock, in the
course of a desultory education, had been able to instil
into her daughters' minds, not by precept or eloquent
theorising, but by the sheer force of example.
After tea, they repaired to the adjoining room,
where the cottage-piano stood in a recess by the fireplace.
In this apartment the girls kept their books,
and all the refinements of their life. Here there
were flowers, the few odds and ends of old china
which Mrs. Trevornock had picked up in her wanderings
among brokers' shops, or saved from the
wreck of former splendour  her art-gallery, consisting
of about a dozen good old-fashioned engravings :
a landscape or two after Constable, two or three
heads by Reynolds, a pair of Hogarth, and four
well-known Wilkie. Those familiar subjects.

though only in black-and-white, seemed to give life
and light to the walls.

Seeing the open piano, the Captain naturally
asked for a little music. The two girls played an
easy sonata of Mozart's written for four hands, and
then Barbara and her mother sang an old Italian
air together : the mother in a sweet soprano but
little impaired by time ; the daughter in a fine contralto,
a voice worthy of higher cultivation than it
had received. Captain Leland listened and admired.
He had an honest love of music, and confessed by
and by to the possession of a baritone voice, with
which he would be happy to join in a glee or a duet,
as occasion required.

He sat near the bookcase, and surveyed its
contents while Bab and Flossie were playing.
Shakespeare, Byron, Wordsworth, Shelley  all the
old favourites; David Copperfield, The Cantons; the
Waverley edition of Scott, in well-worn brown calf.
Scott's novels and the poets had been among Mrs.
Trevornock's wedding-presents, and alone remained
to her of all the tributes that friendship had offered
to Dr. Reilly's pretty daughter.

Captain Leland liked the look of those bookshelves.
They indicated refinement without bookishness.
The modern learned young lady, in her
smoke-coloured spectacles, with the differential calculus
at her fingers' ends, would have despised so
simple a collection.

Upon my word, I believe I have fallen on my
feet,' the Captain said to himself. ' This Mrs.
Trevornock is evidently a lady ; and how lovely the
elder girl is, and how unconscious of her beauty !
What a curious thing it would be if  But no, I
am a fool to think of that.'

WRITTEN IN STARLIGHT ON THE DARK ABOVE.'

It was midsummer, and the roses were in bloom in
the Camberwell garden, cabbage-roses, creamy blush,
old-fashioned moss-roses  striped red and white, and
deepest damask nothing very modern or grand in
nomenclature. Mrs. Trevornock and her daughters
could not afford to be rose-fanciers. They were content
to cherish and make the most of the roses they
had. The jasmine was in bloom on the southern
wall ; the lilies of the valley in the shady corner by
the old fig-tree had left off flowering. Captain
Leland had been living in South-lane for a month,
and he was as much at home with the Trevornocks
as if he had known them all his life. For a bachelor
and a club-man he was wonderfully domestic.
He spent his mornings in the garden, or in the garden
parlour, studying Indian languages, reading the
daily papers, or reading aloud to Bab and Flossie,

while they stitched diligently at long strips of embroidery.
He went to his club for an hour or two in
the afternoon, saw other military men, read more newspapers,
dined moderately, and came home at eight
o'clock to drink tea with Mrs. Trevornock and her
daughters. No arrangement could have suited that
modest little household better. The three ladies
could dine when they liked and how they liked, and
very simple and economical were the dinners so
eaten. They had their afternoons free. They could
mend and make their clothes, go on marketing expeditions,
with neat little baskets or reticule, in the
Walworth-road work in the garden, decorate their
drawing-room with fresh flowers, and dust and polish
and arrange and rearrange the furniture, without any
fear of interruption, and be neatly and freshly
dressed and ready to receive their partial boarder
before the clock struck eight. It was the simplest
and the happiest life possible.

Mamma,' said Flossie one day, as they sat at
dinner, 'I think you must acknowledge that the
Captain is an acquisition. I'm so glad I thought of
the advertisement. It was my idea, you know'

This was one of Flossie's idiosyncrasies. Any
new arrangement that succeeded was always claimed
as her idea. It was the only talent to which she
pretended. She willingly acknowledged Barbara asher
intellectual superior, but the art of striking out
improvements in life she claimed as her own.

0, come now,' cried Mrs. Trevornock, ' that's
too much, Flossie ! We talked of a partial boarder
ages ago. It seemed a sin to have such a nice bedroom
going to waste.'

'Yes, but it was my idea from the very beginning.
And see how well it has succeeded. If all
partial boarders are as good as Captain Leland, partial
boarding must be the high-road to fortune. I
wish we had six spare bedrooms !'

You didn't think quite so well of Captain Leland
the first evening, Flossie,' retorted Barbara, laughing.

When I saw him attack our bread-and-butter ?
No, I thought we should be eaten out of house and
home. But how nobly he makes up for his appetite !
How generous he has been !'

A York ham,' said Mrs. Trevornock.

A canister of Indian tea,' said Bab.

'A dozen jars of Dundee marmalade,' said
Flossie.

Baskets of strawberries daily,' pursued Bab.

'And a small salmon last Saturday.'

To which we are bidding a tender farewell today,'
said Flossie, pointing to the dish, where the
backbone of a fish reposed in a shallow pool of
vinegar between sedgy banks of fennel.

This was a catalogue of Captain Leland's benefactions
since he had been a dweller under Mrs. Trevor-neck's
roof. Perhaps he had managed somehow to
find out that, in spite of the neatness and refinement
of the house and all its arrangements, in spite of the
pretty dresses and happy faces of the two girls, there
was not a superabundance of money at Xo. 20 South-lane,
and these gifts may have been designed as an
artful means of helping his well-bon hostess.

The Trevornocks, from a long experience of life
in the character of poor relations, may have been
wanting in that virtue which some people call
proper pride. They accepted the Captain's offerings
as frankly as they were given, and admired him as
the most generous of men.

VOL. I. E

There can't be anything too good for him,' exclaimed
the enthusiastic Flossie. * Think how he
fought at Moodke, and splashed about in the muddy
water at Sobraon, when he was little more than a
boy. He doesn't boast of his own share in the
work, but I know he was a hero.'

Flossie was now as learned about Indian affairs
as she had been heretofore ignorant. She was as
familiar with the geography of the Punjab as if she
had lived there. She fancied she could have found
her way through the Nolan Pass, and would have felt
quite at home at Kandahar. She knew that the
Sutlej is a river, and that Sikhs are not Mahometan,
and she was proud of her knowledge. She adopted
quite a high and mighty tone about Indian politics ;
talked of Cough and Hardinge as if she had been
their brother-in-arms ; and had her own idea of the
kind of man who ought to be Governor-general.

'What are you going to wear this evening?' she
asked Barbara. * Your pink muslin ?'

I don't want to be disagreeable, dears,' said Mrs.
Trevornock; * but since Captain Leland has been
here you have used an enormous amount of starch.'

These young ladies starched and ironed their
own muslin gowns, and would not have been
ashamed to own it in the best society.

If Captain Leland were not here you wouldn't
have had that salmon,' said Flossie, pointing to the
backbone ; ' and think how many pounds of starch
you could buy for the price of him.'

And I'm sure you would not like to see us in
crumpled gowns, mamma dear,' said Bab, nestling
close to her mother.

Indeed I wouldn't, darling ; and you look lovely
in that pale-pink muslin,' answered the loving
parent. ' We shall get on somehow, I daresay. I
don't think any girls ever had nicer dresses, and your
aunt Sophia talks about sending a box before long.'

'Dear aunt Sophia!' cried Flossie, clapping her
hands ecstatically ; ' I love her when she sends us
one of her well-filled boxes, though I don't think
her taste in dress quite irreproachable.'

Decidedly rustic,' said Bab ; * but what should
we do without her ?'

The mouths of gift-horses should not be too
closely scrutinised,' said Flossie, with mock so-library



UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

lenity ; ' and we forgive aunt Sophia her bad taste
and her provincial dressmaker.'

The mother and daughters lingered over their
frugal dinner of pickled salmon and cold gooseberry-pie.
They sat wasting their time and talking about
Captain Leland. Any one who had listened to them
for five minutes would have known that they were
all three in love with him, that it was a desperate
case of hero-worship on all sides. But Barbara was
the quietest of the three. Barbara said very little.

After dinner came a sultry hour over the ,
with talk and laughter and song as
joyous as of birds in early spring-time, when it is
still a wonder that the earth is so fair and the sun
so bright ; then a trip to the Walworth-road, to buy
tea and sugar, and those nice crisp biscuits that set
off the table ; anon a digression to the Albany-road,
to pay a horrid tax, a thing which wrenches seventeen
sands nine pence out of one without rhyme or
reason, but which must be paid on pain of summonses
and all manner of grisly horrors ; then home
to dress, and to make oneself look one's very prettiest
against the Captain's return.

Those summer-evening tea-drinkings had grown
to be quite festive. The cottage-piano had been
wheeled into the garden parlour, and after tea Mrs.
Trevornock would play a waltz  the 'Elfin,' the
'Indiana,' or the 'Prima Donna'  while the Captain
waltzed alternately with Bab and Flossie on
the close-cut lawn. Just half a dozen turns or so
with each fair young partner, in the soft light between
sun and moon. Nothing premeditated; the
whole thing lasting hardly half an hour. But of all
the dances Barbara Trevornock was destined to
dance in the course of her life, those brief waltzes
on the lawn were the most lovingly remembered.
Nobody can be young twice. That first sweet freshness
of girlhood, those first wild beatings of a heart
surprised at its newly-awakened passion, who can
know them twice over? Not Barbara Trevornock,
any more than the rest of her sisters.

And to George Leland  the hardy adventurous
soldier, the man who could spend ten hours in the
saddle, riding through the freezing night, the blazing
day, through storms of dust, and hot winds that
were like the blasts from a furnace  who shall say

how sweet these summer nights were to him ? A
year ago he had been leading a wanderer's life in a
wild country, sitting alone in his tent at eventide,
or with no better company than a couple of savage-looking
Afghan servants ; far from civilisation and
the fair face of woman ; away from books and music
and all those things he loved only less than duty.
That had ever been paramount with him. He was
a man who had never spared himself  who had
never shrunk from any toil, mental or physical, and
who had done more hard and difficult work in the
seven years of his Indian apprenticeship than many
men achieve in a long lifetime.

To him, then, more than to any, rest after toil
was sweet.

Half past seven. The shopping done, the tax
paid, the spotless muslin gowns put on ; mother
napping in the shady front parlour; Flossie practising
a new waltz on the little Start ; Barbara
walking alone in the garden, along the one sheltered
path by which the hazels grew wild, and over
which leaned the biggest of the pear-trees  very
much aslant in his trunk, as if he had outgrown his

strength and gone crooked, but magnificent as to
his foliage, though his fruit was of small account.

What was Bab thinking about as she walked up
and down in the soft evening light, tall and slender,
dressed in pale muslin, with rich brown hair coiled
in a knot at the back of the lovely head, heavy eyelids
drooping over dark-gray eyes, the sweet face
full of serious thought? What need to ask the
question ? What did anybody at No. 20 South-lane
think of in this June of '53 except Captain
Leland? He made the whole sum of everybody's
meditations. Mother had dozed off with her mind
full of speculations as to when he was going
to propose to Barbara ; yet with a feeling that,
admirable as he was, he was still unworthy of so
rich a prize, not being duke or marquis or millionaire.
Flossie was giving only a corner of her
mind to the accidental in her new waltz ; the
greater part was occupied by Captain Leland.

A step upon the gravel, the firm tread Barbara
knows so well, and in the next minute the subject
of her thoughts is by her side.

What a comfort to return to this nice old

garden after the glare and dust and bustle of London
streets !' said the Captain.

Have you been very busy to-day ?'

Very. I have seen my agent.'

*0,' said Bab, with a curious sinking at her
heart, as if a cold chill had suddenly come over
the warm gladness of life's atmosphere.

Yes ; and I have settled when I am to go
back.'

To India ?' faltered Barbara.

To India. I am to sail in the Hesper, which
leaves Southampton on the 4th of September. I
go overland, of course.'

So soon ?'

Do you call that soon ? I have two long
months' rest and holiday yet.'

'And when you go back,' began Barbara,
steadying her voice with an effort, ' do you think
there will be any more war ?'

*Yes, I anticipate a few more skirmishes.
Affairs in the Punjab are by no means settled.'

And I suppose you will be going to Somerset
for part of the time ?' said Barbara, after a pause.

0, I shall run down for a week, towards the
last, to see the dear old mother. But that will
be quite at the end of my time probably. She
likes to see the very last of me.'

*How unhappy she must feel about you sometimes,
when you are so far away, and exposed to
such perils !'

I hope she does not look too much at the
perilous side of my career. She is glad to think
I am doing my duty and serving my country.'

Ah,' sighed Barbara, ' I suppose that is the
proper way of thinking. But if I had a son faraway
in a strange country, fighting with a savage
people, I should be miserable.'

They walked a little longer in the garden,
looking at the roses, and gathering a few of the
finest for the adornment of the tea-table ; but
Barbara was somewhat silent. She was considering
the brevity of human happiness. Here was this
new friend, who had already woven himself into
the very fabric of their lives, whose presence had
given life and colour to a hitherto monotonous
existence, and in two little months he would go

away  across the wide unknown seas and sandy
desert plains  and forget them ; lie would be
leading his wild adventurous life, a life too full
of action to leave room for thought; he would
be building and road-making, taking forts and
training native soldiers, riding over hill and dale,
through swamp and jungle, reckless of danger, and
happy ; and it would be as if they had never
known and cared for him, as if he had never known
and cared for them.

If he can speak so lightly about leaving his
mother, he cannot care a straw about leaving us,'
mused Barbara.

FAMILY SECRETS.

Next day was rainy  quite a shameful day for the
end of June, Flossie remarked indignantly ; so the
Captain, who did not seem in the least indignant
at the aggravating state of the weather, spent his
morning with the two young ladies, selecting all the
interesting bits in the Times to read aloud to them,
while Barbara worked diligently at a strip of cambric
embroidery. Flossie idled, and relieved her
oppressed spirits with occasional prances round the
room, like a spirited horse amusing himself in a
loose box.

The only kind of needlework Flossie cared for
was the alteration and reconstruction of her gowns,
mantles, tippets, and furbelows. Of that occupation
she never tired ; but it was an untidy species
of work, which could only be done in strict retirement,
and Flossie's mind was to-day sorely exercised
by a sense of divided duty.

She would like to have been in her own room,
adapting her last year's muslin to the latest fashion
of this year, but she felt that she ought to stay
down-stairs and play propriety for Barbara. She
liked the Captain's society also, and was just a little
in love with him on her own account ; not enough
to make her uncomfortably jealous or unkindly
disposed to her sister, but so much as sufficed to
give a zest to his society. They talked a great deal
when all the not absolutely dryasdust paragraphs
in the Times had been exhausted : they talked of
India; they talked of England; of the past, the
present, the future ; and by and by the two girls
began to talk of their own history. They told the
Captain how long they had occupied the little house
in South-lane; how they had discovered the spot
by accident ; how the garden was a perfect wilderness,
the house both outside and inside deplorably
in want of paint ; and how by degrees they had
made house and garden what they now were.

It has been up-hill work,' said Flossie ; * I am
not ashamed to tell you that I have done a good
deal of whitewashing and painting myself. You'd

hardly know me, I believe, if you were to see me
standing on a hassock, on a kitchen-table, with my
head tied up in a handkerchief, whitewashing a
ceiling. It's very exciting work,' added the damsel,
but not altogether pleasant, for the whitewash ivill
drop into one's eyes.'

And I suppose you have lived at Camberwell
ever since you lost your father,' said the Captain
presently, after they had exhausted the subject of
whitewash.

Lost our father !' echoed Flossie. * We never
lost our father. The author of our being is still inexistence.'


Really !' exclaimed George Leland, with a
puzzled look.

To have been living under a lady's roof for
the space of six weeks, believing her a widow and
her children orphans, and to have a husband and
father sprung upon him in this way, was enough to
disturb any man's equanimity.

I really thought your mother was a widow,' he
faltered.

Yes ; mother is absurdly reserved upon the

subject,' answered Flossie. * For my own part I
prefer perfect frankness. She has a husband; we
have a father ; but I am sorry to say that in both
relations he is a decided failure.'

The subject was serious, but Captain Leland
found himself smiling. Flossie's pert little face, as
she stood opposite him, supporting herself against
the end of the sofa, and twisting her pinchbeck
watch-chain in her fingers, was provocative of anything
rather than gravity.

We might justly say we have no father,' said
Bab ; ' he has never done a father's duty.'

Nonsense, Bab ; don't be so hard upon the
author of our being. I perfectly remember one
Sunday, when I had my first frock with a pocket,
papa gave me sixpence to put in that pocket. And
he used to call me his little maid. I think those
were two nice traits in his character, at any
rate.'

It would have been nicer of him if he had paid
his debts, and kept a roof over our heads, instead
of squandering his money,' said Bab, with a touch
of bitterness.

What kind of man Twas  is your father ?' asked
Captain Leland.

I'll describe him as I have often heard him
described  in five words, " nobody's enemy but his
own," ' answered Barbara.

!' said Captain Leland, as much as to say
that was a bad case.

He is a most good-natured person,' said Flossie.
You could hardly put him out of temper, if you
tried. He will swear at you occasionally, but not
savagely. He has threatened to throw me downstairs
or out of the window ; but he doesn't mean
it. I daresay he finds me rather trying.'

Then you see him sometimes ?'

'0 yes. We are on visiting terms. Mamma
seldom goes to see him, because, you see, having
left him  I believe he pretended to be dreadfully
cut up about it at the time  she has a kind of
delicacy about calling on him. But Bab and I
sometimes favour him with a call. He is a solicitor,
and has chambers in Gray's Inn. He has
not been at all fortunate in his profession, poor
man; but he goes on somehow, and he generally

contrives to have chambers, and tin boxes japanned
the colour of tortoiseshell combs, with people's
names painted on them in white letters; and I
believe he has a few old Cornish clients. I know I
have seen the same names upon the boxes ever
since I can remember.'

How glad he must be to see you !' said Captain
Leland, with conviction.

Do you think so ?' asked Flossie, with a speculative
air. ' I am afraid I have rather an aggravating
effect upon him sometimes, or he wouldn't threaten
to throw me out of window.'

Does he threaten to throw you out of the
window ?' asked the Captain of Barbara, who sat,
with drooping eyelids, intent upon a strip of embroidery.


no. Bab never aggravates him. She doesn't
ask him for things, as I do.'

0,' said the Captain ; ' so you ask him for
things, Flossie !'

Yes. I'll give you a little sketch of our visit, if
you like. Scene, a solicitor's office : solicitor discovered
writing, or trimming his nails  more often

the latter. Enter Mr. Maulford, articled clerk,
ushering in two young ladies, in their best bonnets,
got up generally regardless of expense. We try to
make a favourable impression on the author of our
being, though he is a dismal failure.'

 Flossie, you are getting diffuse,' said Bab ;
pray come to the point.'

Mr. Maulford announces, *' The Miss Trevor-rocks,
" and lingers in the doorway to hear as much
as he can of our conversation. '' 0," says Mr. Tree
without looking up  in a general way the
author of our being is not given to looking up.
"It's you, is it? How do?" We greet him as
effusively as circumstances permit. " How's your
mother ?" he asks. We reply, without entering into
details as to mamma's last headache or the touch of
rheumatism she had on Tuesday week. There is a
pause, and then our parent asks, '' Any news from
the west ?" We impart so much of the contents of
my aunt's last letter as we think likely to interest
him. He doesn't seem to listen, but I believe he
hears. A second pause follows, and then I begin
my attack. *' Papa," I murmur meekly, '' could you

VOL. I. F

let us have a little money ? Barbara and I are dreadfully
in want of summer bonnets, and poor mamma
is worried about the water-rate. Two or three sovereigns
would be a great boon." On this the author
flares up. He asks me if I think he can go out in
the streets and pick up money; if I suppose he
can coin or forge. I don't; but I do suppose inwardly
that he might for once in a way earn a little
money. He goes on desperately for some time, but
generally ends by producing a sovereign, or a sovereign
and a half, perhaps. We both thank him 
indeed, I go so far as to march up to him and kiss
him, while this stupid Barbara sits like a statue and
twaddle her parasol. Then I proceed to ask him
for a little silver to pay for our cab home. Of course
we never do have anything so horridly extravagant asa
cab ; but it's a polite way of extorting a little more
cash. Now he begins to lash himself into a dreadful
passion. I am a heartless minx. I would take the
coat off his back, or the teeth out of his head  as if
I wanted his teeth, poor thing !  but he finally brings
a few shillings out of his trouser-pocket, which rattles
as if it were full of money : , and I am sure, from

r5

the careless way he carries his gold and silver, mixed
up anyhow, he ought to he a millionaire. Then I
ask him for a few pence to buy some buns for our
lunch ; and when I have got those, I ask for a little
stationery  a quire or so of foolscap, and some ,
and quill pens  and then he says he feels
strongly tempted to throw me  I am afraid he says
chuck" me  out of the window, or to fling me
down-stairs. But after that I change the conversation,
and before we leave him he gets quite friendly.'

A curious state of things,' said the Captain, with
a tender little look at Barbara, as who should say,
Sweet flower, not for you should fortune's wind
blow so roughly.' May I ask if these filial visits are
frequent ?'

'No,' said Flossie; ' if they were we should be
rich. We just contrive to make our parent provide
our bonnets and pay the water-rate. We have seldom
risen above that.'

'His portion of domestic responsibility is not
heavy. May I ask how long your mother and Mr.
Trevornock have lived apart ?'

You may ask anything,' replied Flossie ; ' I am

candour itself. Besides, you have been so kind and
friendly  salmon, ham, strawberries, Dundee marmalade,'
she repeated inwardly  ' that I am sure we
ought to have no secrets from you. Ma left pa when
Bab and I were little. They had no vulgar quarrels,
you know ; but he never gave her any money for the
housekeeping bills, or the servants' wages, or anything,
and there was usually an execution in the
house. Perhaps you don't know what that means ?'
Yes, I have an idea of the process.'
Taxes meant one succession of summonses,'
pursued Flossie.  Of course I was not old enough
to know anything about it then. We always had
dinner, and I had no idea that we were on the brink
of starvation. But the debt and the executions and
the worry were killing poor ma. She is honest by
nature, poor dear, and she could hardly breathe in
an atmosphere of dishonesty. Pa used to go to his
club, and to races and gambling-houses, and enjoy
himself, leaving his clerks without their salaries.
The clerks used to come to ma  we lived over papa's
offices in those days  and ask her for money on a
Saturday afternoon, when pa had made himself scarce.

It was dreadfully trying, and at last ma felt she
could not bear it any longer ; so one day she packed
her boxes, wrote pa a polite note, and came away
with us in a cab to some lodgings in the Old Kent-road,
which had been taken for her by her old nurse,
a faithful old hanger-on, who used to come to tea
occasionally. We were quite little in those days.
Bab had chubby legs. Don't blush, Bab ; you could
hardly have existed without legs of some kind, and
there's no harm in saying they were chubby. And
ma has toiled, and striven, and thought for us ever
since, and educated us, and dressed us, and made
us supremely happy ; and if we did not love her 
which we do, thank God  we should be hard-hearted
little wretches. And now you know the history of
our pa.'

It is very good of you to give me your confidence,'
said the Captain.

No, it isn't. I rather enjoy talking of him.
And on a wet day like this  there ought to be a law
against wet days in summer  one must talk about
something.'

Would you like to go to a picture-gallery ?'

asked the Captain, thinking that if he could get the
two girls into a gallery he might have this silent
Barbara all to himself, while Flossie stuck her impertinent
little nose into the pictures, which was her
way of looking at art. She said she wanted to find
out how it was done, having proclivities towards
pen-and-ink caricature, and thinking herself an artist
on the strength thereof.

No,' said Flossie resolutely. * That would mean
no end of money spent upon cabs. I know what an
extravagant creature you are. No, we will all stop
at home.'

Captain Leland may be going to his club,'
remonstrated Barbara.

'If he wants to go to his club he can say so,'
retorted Flossie, who had taken the Captain under
her protection, and talked of him and to him as if
she were his mother. ' He has the power of speech
as well as I. I was about to observe that we would
all stop at home, and Captain Leland should tell us
about the Sikh war.'

Nonsense, Flossie ; I'm sure you must be tired
of the Sikhs.'

Does that mean that you want to be off to your
club ?' asked Flossie.

Not at all. It is not a tempting afternoon for
the West-end.'

*You would just as soon sit here and contemplate
our dripping garden, and tell us about the
Sikhs. Or perhaps you would like to give Bab a
lesson in Hindostaneeee ; though how she can feel any
interest in a ridiculous language in which there is no
verb " to have" is more than I can understand,' added
Flossie contemptuously.

The Captain had been teaching Barbara Hindostan
during the last six weeks, chiefly for the
amusement of the thing, though Flossie insisted that
if ever Barbara went out as a governess it would bea
great advantage for her to know Hindostaneeee.

*I should like it of all things,' said Captain
Leland ; so the grammar and vocabulary and childish
little reading-book were brought out, and presently
Barbara was absorbed in an exercise upon the
verb *' to go," while the two heads bent side by side
over the books, the Captain explaining and expounding,
and, indeed, doing the greater part of the work.

They were as happy as children at play, and almost
as innocent. It was only Flossie who was wise, only
Flossie who could see the other side of the cards.
That far-seeing damsel sat scribbling pen-and-ink
pictures upon a sheet of the solicitor's foolscap paper,
and feeling as if she was making her sister's fortune.


She couldn't have half so much of his society
if I were not always by to play propriety,' reasoned
Flossie. * Poor ma is so absorbed in the house
that it is almost as if she had no existence between
breakfast and tea. I am really a most valuable
young person, and ought to be handsomely rewarded
by and by, when our partial boarder is a
general, and he and Bab have a house in Portman-square.'


The long summer afternoon was not one minute
too long for the Captain and Barbara, though Flossie
had to stifle more than one yawn, and grew desperately
weary of watching the perambulations of
a neighbour's favourite tabby on the top of the
garden-wall. The roses were all dripping. The
grass looked sodden. The distant roofs and steeples

were dark blotches upon the universal gray. For
anybody except lovers the day was chilly and depressing;
but for those two yonder, bending over
the grammar and exercise-book, it was as if they
sat in a sunlit garden made musical by a choir of
nightingales. And yet this happy idler, dawdling
away the afternoon in pretended studies, was the
same man who among his brother soldiers had been
famous for reckless daring  who toyed in the life
of camps and revelled in the clang of arms  whose
music was the trumpet-call, and the battle-field his
ballroom. Love had tamed the lion. Love had
brought this modern Hercules to the feet of this
gentle Omphale.

'I wish ma would let us have a fire at tea-time !'
exclaimed Flossie, shivering; 'and, 0, I hope she
has made us a hot cake for tea I I'm half frozen,
and quite ravenous. And to think that we are on
the brink of July !'

Tea and the hot cake came at last, with Mrs.
Trevornock, who looked brisk and smiling, having
made a careful toilet, after a day of household grubbing
such as her soul delighted in. When tea was

over there came music and song and much talk;
and the evening growing fine, with a big round
moon that shed glory over all Camberwell, the
Captain and the two girls took a walk in the wet
glistening garden.

I've a proposition to make,' said Captain Leland,
throwing aside his cigar, which he was permitted to
smoke during these moonlit promenades.

Gracious,' thought Flossie, 'he is going to propose
to Bab in my presence ! How hideously unromantic
!'

I know tomorrow will be a glorious day. Let
us all go to Greenwich, and see the Nelson gallery,
and stroll about the Park, and wind up with a whitebait
dinner. The fish will be as big as herrings by
this time, but that doesn't matter.'

*I agree to it all,' said Flossie, 'except the
whitebait. Why go and squander money on dinner?'
she demanded contemptuously. 'It is only you
gluttonous men who can reconcile yourselves to
spending sovereigns on a single dinner. We none
of us care a straw about whitebait. Let us have
our day at Greenwich, and come back to one of

ma's meat-teas. A nice leg of lamb and a salad,
for instance.'

That sounds tempting,' said the Captain, whose
exchequer was not so deep that he should desire to
waste money on Greenwich dinners ; ' and if your
mother and you would really like it as well  '

Millions of times better,' answered Flossie ; and
Bab was of the same opinion.

So it was decided they should drive to London
Bridge early next morning, and take the train to
Greenwich.

IN ARCADIA.

Three o'clock in the afternoon of a glorious summer
day, the sky almost as blue as if it were looking down
upon an Italian landscape, vine-wreathed valleys and
olive woods, and the distant glory of a sapphire sea.
Three o'clock, and on the wood-crowned hill of Greenwich
there is delicious shade under old trees, whose
topmost boughs are faintly stirred by the soft west
wind.

The Captain and his party have done the Hospital
and the Nelson gallery, the chapel and all the splendours
thereof, which are of a somewhat chilly order.
They have thrilled at the sight of the hero's coat ;
they have looked at the sad grand picture of his
death with eyes full of tears. They have talked to
divers old gentlemen of the Tom Bowling type, who
have fought their battles in days gone by, and are
more or less glorified by scars or lopped limbs. They

have eaten strawberry-ices and sponge-cakes  Flossie
indulging to a perilous extent  at the little pastry-cook's
in Greenwich town ; and now here they are
amidst the greenery of the good old Elizabethan
Park, quite deserted by holiday folks to-day, and as
lonely as if it belonged to the deer and the rabbits.
Up on One Tree Hill yonder there are some ancient
gentlemen with spy-glasses and decanter-stoppers,
lying in wait for the sixpences of the idle ; but hereby
the warren all is stillness and sweet summer
silence, which means the low scarce-audible hum of
Nature's myriad voices.

The Captain and Bab strolled on a little way
ahead, while Mrs. Trevornock, who was beginning
to feel unconscionably sleepy, sauntered with Flossie
in the rear.

How you do crawl, mother !' exclaimed that
lively young person. ' I don't believe we are walking
at the rate of half a mile an hour.'

Why should we hurry, dear ? We have had
a long day already. The picture-gallery was rather
tiring. I would give the world for a cup of tea.'

If you had the world to give you couldn't get

tea up here,' said Flossie. 'Nothing but lukewarm
ginger-beer and flabby oranges, the refuse of
last Christmas, and choky seedy biscuits. How can
holiday people be so foolish as. to eat such things,
and encourage the impostors who sell them !'
My dear, holiday people will eat anything.'

Yes, I believe it's characteristic of the race ;
they are like pigs and ducks.'

You had better sit down, mother,' said Flossie
presently, when Barbara and the Captain were almost
out of sight ; ' you are looking woefully fagged,
I'm afraid you tired yourself before we started, poor
dear.'

I only rubbed out your two muslin gowns.'

ma, doesn't it seem hard that a Trevornock
should have to stand at the washtub !'

I don't know that it's harder for a Trevornock
than a Jones,' returned the mother plaintively ; ' but
when I lived with my father in Harley-street, I
never thought I should have to do such a thing.'

To think of your living in Harley-street ! I
never remember passing through it but once, and
then the dignity of the houses froze my veins. I

kept saying to myself, ''My ma lived here. She
had the privilege of stepping out upon one of those
noble balconies, of knocking double-knocks with
those delightful knockers. She looked out of those
shining windows when she was young and pretty."
I don't mean that you're not pretty now, darling,'
pursued the girl eagerly ; ' you're the prettiest person
I know, ma, after Barbara.'

My love, at forty one has given up thinking
about one's looks.'

You have, dearest, and that's one of the reasons
why you are so pretty.'

Mrs. Trevornock breathed a regretful sigh, remembering
how very little of this world's gear or
this world's joys her beauty had brought her.
She looked along the green vista, where the figures
of the Captain and his companion were growing
smaller in the distance, and sighed again as she
reflected that perhaps even Barbara's fair face was to
win no exalted prize in life's lottery.

I have had so much of poverty in my time, that
I should like my daughters to be rich,' she said
musingly, rather to herself than to Flossie.

The girl's quick wit interpreted her thoughts.

'It's a pity that Indian officers are not better
paid,' she said; 'but they say their widows are
particularly well provided for.'

'My dear, an officer's widow's pension at best
is but a pittance. If beauty were worth anything
in this world, Barbara ought to marry a duke.'

There are so few dukes,' retorted Flossie ;
one could count them on one's fingers. And most
of those I know anything about,' she pursued,
with a delightful air of familiarity, ' are old and
frumpy and married already. Captain Leland is
very nice.'

He is all that is kind and good,' said Mrs.
Trevornock warmly. ' I would not undervalue him
for the world. But I had hoped for something
so grand for Barbara.'

But, mother, where did you expect it, or him,
to come from ? Who is to know that a lovely girl
is waiting to be wooed and married in South-lane,
Camberwell ? We don't live in a fairy tale. If
Barbara were to burst out as a prima donna or a
great tragic actress, it would be different; but a

portionless girl with a pretty face is like a flower
in a cottage-garden  she may bud and blossom,
and fade and wither, and the world may know
nothing of her existence. Think of all the fair
sweet things that live and die in the forests  the
primroses and violets, the butterflies, those young
fawns which are the very perfection of beauty.
nobody cares about them or knows of them. I
think Barbara ought to be very proud of having
captured a tall handsome Indian officer.'

She ought to make a better match,' argued
Mrs. Trevornock.

What could be better than a man who is so
good to us ?'

'If she were engaged to him tomorrow,' continued
Mrs. Trevornock, * I should set my face
against their being married for years to come. I
could not part with my darling. It would break
my heart if he were to take her to India  yet
awhile.'

Years to come sounds a long while,' said
Flossie ; ' but I don't think Captain Leland will
be in a desperate hurry to marry. I heard him

VOL. I. G

say that he was not rich enough to keep a wife.
He is rich compared with us, of course, for he
has plenty of money for gloves and cabs and luxuries
of that kind ; but I daresay he has grand ideas of
how a wife should be kept. He would not expect
her to iron her own muslin frocks, for instance.
Besides, in such a climate as India ironing would
be doubly horrible.'

I like him very much,' mused Mrs. Trevor-neck
; ' but it would almost break my heart if she
were to marry a man who must ultimately take her
to India.'

While the mother was dolefully forecasting the
future, proud of her daughter's conquest, yet fearful
of its result, George Leland and Barbara Trevornock
were sauntering on through sunlight and shadow, as
happy in the present, as careless of the future, as if
they had been children straying through the woodlands
of fairy tales, where, though there are ogres
and wicked witches to menace and affright, there are
always good fairies ready to appear in the nick of
time and make all things bright and pleasant. They

had been talking of indifferent matters  the hospital,
the park, anything ; yet they were so happy
in each other's companionship that the commonest
theme seemed full of interest. Gradually their talk
took a personal tone.

 ' What a good woman your mother is, Barbara !'*
said the Captain.

He had taken to calling her Barbara on rare
occasions when they were alone together. Flossie
he always called by her pet name, just as coolly ashe
would have called a favourite dog Gip or Flo.

Yes, she is all that is good.'

*I have respected and honoured her ever so
much more since you confided your family history
to me. I honour her for having fought the battle
of Hfe so bravely, for having brought up her daughters
so sweetly.'

She has fed and clothed us with love,' said Bab
tenderly. ' No girls ever had a happier home ; no
girls ever had a dearer mother. Money is not everything
iu life. Perhaps if we had been richer we
should not have been so happy, for we might not
have been so fond of each other. The pomps and

vanities of this world might have distracted us. It
is easy enough to renounce them in one's Catechism,
when they are never likely to come in one's way ;
but I daresay the pomps and vanities are rather
enticing to people who can afford to indulge in
them.'

You have known what it is to be poor, Barbara,
and you have not found that poverty must needs
mean unhappiness.'

Indeed I have not.'

Then you would not be afraid to marry a poor
man if you loved him ?' said Captain Leland earnestly.


The attack was desperately sudden. Barbara
turned white and then red.

Darling, you know what I want to say to you.
You know  you must have known ever so long ago 
how fondly and truly and entirely I love you.'

He put his arm round her, and her blushing
face found a shelter on his breast. There was no
one to see them but the rabbits, and the does, lying
in the sunshine yonder, with their fawns, looking at
the lovers gravely with calm contemplative eyes, as

solemn and as wise as the gaze of benignant
Nature.

I thought  I began to hope,' faltered Barbara,
in tones so low that he was obliged to bend his head
close to her dark hair to listen, ' that you cared forme
 a little.'

Hypocrite ! you knew that I loved you to distraction.'


Indeed, I did not. Or if I ever thought for a

moment that you really loved me, I told myself

afterwards that it might be only a passing fancy. I

remembered those lines of Byron's you read us one

night, out of the poem which is not in mother's

edition, 

Man's love is of man's Hfe a tiling apart ;
'Tis woman's whole existence," 

and I thought, though you were very kind and very
attentive, and seemed pleased to be with us all, you
would go away and forget us.'

Like unto a man beholding his natural face ina
glass ; for he beholden himself, and goeth his way
and straightway foreteeth what manner of man he
is,' quoted the Captain, laughing at her. *When

looking-glasses are so rare that I can forget my
own physiognomy, I may begin to forget you, Barbara
 you and yours. I love you so dearly, that if
your mother were not half so sweet as she is, if
Flossie were not the pleasantness little puss in creation,
I think I should love them both, all the same,
out of my overflowing fondness for you.'

"What made you care for me ?' asked Barbara,
moved by her exceeding curiosity to look up, with
eyes exaggerated by wonder.

How could a man help caring for the loveliest
thing in creation, and the gentlest, most modest,
truest, divinest of her species ? I love you because
you are altogether lovable. Make me happy, my
angel, and confess that you are not quite indifferent
to me.'

I hope you won't be dreadfully shocked,' said
Barbara, looking intensely ashamed of herself, ' but
I'm afraid I adored you after I had known you a
week. You see, you were almost the first man
Flossie and I had ever known, so you must not be
surprised if we thought a good deal of you.'

True,' said the Captain, somewhat crestfallen.

My position was almost as advantageous as Adam's.
Then I suppose if I had been the second male
individual of your acquaintance I should have had
no chance ?'

You know better than that. You know that I
never could have cared for any one but you.'

Hike to think so, even if it is a sweet delusion,'
said the Captain passionately. 'I like to believe
you are that other half of me which went astray in
the beginning of things, and was only recovered
when I met you.'

*It seems rather like that,' assented Barbara,
with conviction. ' There must have been something
fatal in it, or you would never have chosen mamma's
advertisement from all the others.'

Of course not. My eye lighted on that at
once.'

I helped to compose it,' said Bab, with a touch
of pride, as if it were an honour to have assisted in
that work of art.

Yes ; and I recognised your hand in it, no
doubt. It was a genuine case of elective affinity.'

Gracious !' exclaimed Bab suddenly, looking

back through the leafy distance ; ' I'm afraid we
have lost mother and Flossie.'

We've only mislaid them. They'll turn up
presently.'

They went slowly back, telling each other, with
many sweet variations upon the same old tune, how
fondly and how deeply they loved. Little was said
of a practical nature  of ways and means not a word.
They made no plans for the future. They had not
descended from the heaven of abstract love. In that
empyrean they lived and had their being. tomorrow
would be time enough for hard facts and the
dull truths of work-a-day existence.

They found Mrs. Trevornock and Flossie on a
comfortable bench under the elms : the elder lady
fast asleep; Flossie yawning desperately, and digging
the ferule of her parasol into the rugged
bark of an unoffending tree in sheer weariness of
spirit.

How lovely Barbara looked, with the new light
of happiness shining in her eyes and glorifying
every feature ! Mrs. Trevornock awoke scared, fancying
that it was morning and the milkman ringing,

and Amelia not up to answer the bell.' Flossie
saw at a glance what had happened.

Bab's engaged,' this astute damsel said to herself.
' She looks every inch of it.'

Is it time to go back to the station ?' Mrs.
Trevornock asked sleepily.

That is just as you ladies like,' answered the
Captain, looking at his watch. * It's half-past four ;
there's a train at a quarter-past five. But if you
would care to stay later  '

I could walk in this lovely old park for ever,'
said Barbara.

We ought to be back by seven,' said her
mother.

So it was decided that they should stroll quietly
down to the station ; which they did, heroically resisting
those insinuating invitations to tea and
shrimps with which they were besieged on the way,
and without so much as a thought of whitebait or
iced champagne. There were five minutes to spare
when they got to the pastry cook's, and Flossie was
not proof against the offer of another strawberry-ice.

0, what a home-going it was by the smokes

railway in the environs of London, across level
marsh-lands, through dingy Hertford and dingier
Bermondsey ! Some there were that fair June evening
to whom the smoky way was a path through
Paradise. Barbara sat in her corner, with the western
light shaded hy a purple hind, silent, happy,
knowing her lover's eyes were watching her, yet
never daring to look up. Flossie prattled of things
in general discursive, and Mrs. Trevornock made
a comfortable finish of the nap she had begun under
the Greenwich elms.

What a happy evening ! What a joyous meal
the tea-dinner in the garden parlour, with youth
and hope and love for the sauce to meat ! Later a
few turns in the moonlight garden to the sickly
sweet *' Prima Donna' waltz. Blissful halcyon day,
tender poetic night, day and night of pure and perfect
happiness for Barbara Trevornock !

Next day came a dash of sadness, a sprinkle of
tears. Mrs. Trevornock had to be told what had
happened. She was proud of her daughter's conquest
; she was honestly attached to her partial
boarder ; yet, having dreamed of dukes, earls, and

millionaires, she lead to let her ideas domi a long
way in order to contemplate Barbara's marriage with
an Indian Captain.

He would want to take her darling to India.
That was the worst part of the business. To this
the mother could not consent. Her idolised girl,
who had been a child only a year or two ago, obedient
to her lightest word, subservient to a look,
would never be so cruel as to take her fate into her
own hands and declare her right to choose for herself,
and snap asunder the tender tie that had bound
mother and daughter through all the peaceful loving
years that were gone.

Barbara wept at the sight of her mother's tears.

*Xo, darling, I am not going to leave you,' she
said, when Mrs. Trevornock put forward her claim.
Do you think I could be so ungrateful ? You are
always first in my mind. I shall always obey
you.'

And then the Captain confessed that, though he
would fain have made Barbara his wife without a
day's delay, the present unsettled state of the
country was not in favour of his taking a bride to

India with him this time. He who had lived the
wild life of a partisan leader, with a native regiment
of his own creation, in the remote hill-country,
spending his days in the saddle and his nights
under canvas, and who might have to lead the same
hardy roving life again when he went hack, was not
in a position to take a delicately-nurtured girl for
his companion and helpmeet yet awhile. It might
be safer and wiser to wait till some more of the
fighting was over, since more fighting there must
inevitably be. And it would be harder to leave this
dear one alone in an Indian city than to leave her
here in her mother's tender care.

*It will be two or three years at most, dearest,'
he said ; ' and I shall have got a first-rate disappointment,
or perhaps an assistant commissionership
 I have been promised both  and then I shall
be better able to give my darling pleasant surroundings.
It seems a long time to wait ; but I shall
know that you are happy here with your dear
mother, and we shall write to each other by every
mail.'

This arrangement satisfied everybody. Mrs.

Trevornock rejoiced at the idea of keeping her darling
for three blessed years, and put aside the
images of dukes, earls, and millionaires without a
sigh. It was not possible for her to like anybody-better
than she liked George Leland ; and Mrs.
Trevornock's affections were very warm, if somewhat
fickle. The Captain had behaved so well and kindly,
he had shown so much regard for her feelings, that
she could not withhold her consent ; so her approval
and her blessing were given. The vows vowed yesterday
were ratified to-day with the maternal consent,
and, in due course, Flossie was informed that
her sister was George Leland's plighted wife.

You needn't have taken the trouble to tell me
anything about it,' said Flossie. ' I knew what had
happened yesterday evening directly I saw your face.
I never beheld such a transformation in any one in
my life. You had such an air, so solemn, so self-contained,
as if you were marching up the nave of
some great cathedral to be crowned and anointed,
and all that sort of thing. I think really I should
have passed you in the street without recognising
you. And after all he is neither a duke nor a railway

king,' pursued Flossie. 'I donec see anything
so very wonderful in the business.'

It is wonderful to me that he should care forme
so much,' faltered Bab shyly, 'and that I should
so idolise him.'

Goodness gracious !' cried Flossie, rather inclined
to be snappish. ' The same kind of thing
might happen to me tomorrow with a grocer's boy,
or the young man at the post-office. Love is a perpetual
Midsummer Nights Dream, and we are everyone
of us as weak as that silly little Titania when
our time comes.'

Three days after this came a letter from George
Leland's mother, an honest friendly greeting to her
son's promised wife.

*We shall all love you, my dear,' wrote the
mother. ' I know that the girl my George has
chosen must be worthy of my warmest affection.'

Mrs. Leland went on to say how, when next
summer came, while George was in India, Barbara
must come for a long visit to the Somersetshire
vicarage, so that she might get friendly and familiar
with her future sisters and brothers before her marriage.

They were homely people, with no pretensions
to style ; hut they would try to make her happy.

Barbara was as proud of the letter as if it had
been written by a queen ; so proud, that poor Mrs.
Trevornock felt a little disposed to jealousy.

I hope you are not going to spend half your
time away from me in the few short years we are to
be together,' she observed plaintively.

'Mamma darling, have I ever wished to leave
you '?' cried Bab, embracing her. ' I should like to
know George's mother ; but  '

Of course, it's only natural. You ought to goto
the vicarage; but you will be quite lost to me
among these new relations.'

After this there came halcyon days for the lovers,
a time when the winds were at rest, and all the hours
were full of sunlight, and all the land ran over with
gladness. Barbara knew herself beloved, and was
no longer ashamed to show how fondly she loved
again. Flossie looked on and approved, and was a
sharer in all those delights natural to such a time 
impromptu jaunts to Richmond or Kew, Windsor or
Hampton, boat-races up the river, picture-galleries,

concerts, operas  all pleasures the soldier's modest
means could command. The days drifted by as
gently as a shower of rose-leaves wafted on a summer
breeze ; and yet, through all this happy melody
which filled life with music there ran one mournful
minor movement that told of parting and tears.

So soon, so soon, so soon !' sighed Barbara.
Her lover was to leave her early in September.

MR. TREVORN'OCK.

When it is said of a man that he is nobody's enemy
but his own, it may generally be taken as a solemn
fact that the progress of that man through life has
been fraught with calamity and ruin to all belonging
to him. He has most likely begun by breaking his
mother's heart : he has in all probability reduced a
virtuous father to bankruptcy : he has robbed his
sisters of their portions : he has been an incubus
upon his meritorious brothers : he has brought his
wife and family to the gutter : and he has degraded
a good old name. Yet his own particular set speak
indulgently of him to the last as a good-hearted
well-meaning fellow, incapable of harming any one
but himself.

Such a man was Thomas Trevornock, solicitor,
of No. 2 St. Albans-court, Gray's Inn. He was the
black sheep in an otherwise spotless and unblemished
flock. His family had been full of forbearance and

VOL. I. H

long-suffering; they had propped him up when he
lurched, and had picked him up and set him on his
feet when he fell. But there was an unconquerable
downward inclination in Thomas Trevornock. He
had vices of which his daughters knew nothing. He
had been a drunkard and a gambler. He had squandered
his money amidst the lowest surroundings ; he
had wallowed in the gutter. He had been engaged
in so many doubtful transactions that it was a marvel
that he had escaped being struck off the rolls. That
some few clients of seeming respectability and assured
means still stuck to him was even a greater
marvel.

Yet he had clients, and, although he consistently
refrained from the support of wife and children, he
did earn money ; and for the last few years he had
contrived to maintain a reputable appearance in his
neatly furnished ofi&ce at No. 2 St. Albans-court,
much to the satisfaction of his kindred, who told
each other complacently that Thomas seemed really
to be doing well, and that it was a great pity that
he and poor dear Flora were not living together
comfortably.

On a bright morning in early August a gentleman,
who was evidently a stranger to the locality,
might have been seen passing through the archway
that leads into Gray's Inn  a gentleman with a
bronzed complexion, dark eyes, and dark moustache,
answering to the name of George Leland. He made
an inquiry at the little news-shop under the archway,
and having been there instructed in the way
he should go, proceeded at once to St. Albans
where on a second floor he discovered Mr.
Trevornock's office.

The door was opened by a boy, whom Captain
Leland began to interrogate; but before the youth
could answer his question a young man looked out
of a door close at hand, and took the stranger under
his protection.

'You want to see Mr. Trevornock,' he said.
Have you an appointment ?'

Love and antipathy at first sight are happily not
common, for if they were, they would assuredly
throw the quiet working of this world's machinery
out of gear. A dislike so intense as that which
Captain Leland conceived for Mr. Trevornock's

articled clerk could hardly fail to be fraught with
inconvenience, if not a greater evil. The man was
tolerably good-looking, well dressed, sufficiently
good-mannered ; but he had those red-brown eyes
and that freckled sanguine complexion which are to
some minds a challenge to war. George Leland
hated red eyes and a sanguine skin. The man's
mouth was thick and sensual, his teeth large,
tusky, and suggestive of the lower animals. Even
the unctuous curliness of his dark-red hair had an
irritating effect upon the Captain, though it ought
hardly to be considered a fault in a man that his
hair inclines to greasy corrugations, when the grease
and the curliness are alike the work of nature.

Perhaps it was the look of eager curiosity in
Mr. Maulford's red-brown eyes which was most
offensive to the Captain : a hungry look which
asked so plainly, ' Is this another pigeon come to
be plucked? Who and what are you, and have
you brought any grist to our mill ?'

No,' said the Captain, ' I have no appointment
with Mr. Trevornock; but I suppose if he is disengaged
I can see him.'

Mr. Maulford appeared to hesitate, darted into
the room from which he had just issued, made a
show of consulting some memoranda, and darted
back again, his face all alive with that eager look
Captain Leland so much disliked.

He can give you a quarter of an hour. A rather
important client from the West of England is due at
twelve o'clock. What name shall I announce ?'

Captain Leland,' answered the soldier, wondering
a little at the articled clerk taking upon himself
so humble a duty.

A glance into the room whence Mr. Maulford
had emerged showed the Captain that there was no
other clerk at present upon the premises. It seemed
as if Mr. Maulford and the lad who had opened the
door formed the full force of Mr. Trevornock's office.

George Leland thought of Flossie as he saw the
middle-aged gentleman, bald-headed, largely whiskered,
sitting at his desk, busily engaged in polishing
a filbert shaped thumb-nail. He thought of Flossie
as he glanced at the window, with a sudden descent
from which she had been so often threatened.

*Pray sit down,' said Mr. Trevornock politely.

He laid aside his penknife, and waited for his
visitor to explain his business, taking it for granted
that the stranger was a new client. A man who
wanted to borrow money, most likely, and who had
heard of Mr. Trevornock as a. likely person to assist
him in that mysterious process known as ' doing a
bill.'

I must premise that I have not come on law
business,' said the Captain, *but on an affair of a
still more delicate nature.'

'Ah,' thought Mr. Trevornock, 'exactly so; he
wants to raise money.'

For the last four months I have had the
honour to be an inmate of your wife's house.'

Indeed !' said Mr. Trevornock. ' My daughters
told me their mother was going to take a boarder.
A very foolish proceeding, and not likely to be profitable
in the long-run. Pardon me for saying so.
And so you are the gentleman who answered Mrs.
Trevornock's advertisement. My younger daughter
told me something about you.'

Mr. Trevornock's manner had suddenly lost its
courteous blandness. He suspected his wife's lodger

of some evil intention. This officious stranger had
come to plague him about Mrs. Treyornock's taxes
perhaps. The girls had hit upon a new way of
tormenting him for money. It would be like the
impertinence of that younger one  the father did
not even know the younger Flora's pet name  to
attempt such a thing.

May I ask what induced you to favour me with
this call, Captain Leland ?' he inquired.

I have come to you Mr. Trevornock, to tell you
that your daughter Barbara has done me the honour
to accept me as her future husband. I have her
mother's approval ; but I thought it right that you
should receive the information from my lips before
I go back to India.'

0, you are going to India !'

Very shortly.'

Does my daughter accompany you ?'

Xo. I regret to say that, in the present disturbed
state of the district to which I am going, I
cannot ask her to go with me. We must wait for
more peaceful days. It is Mrs. Trevornock's wish
that our marriage should be delayed for two or three

years. I hope by that time to be in a better position
to maintain a wife  as  as she ought to be
maintained faltered the Captain, with an uncomfortable
feeling that he was talking to a man who had
never maintained his wife at all, and who might be
sensitive upon the subject.

Mr. Trevornock accepted the position with as
lofty an air as if he had been the most immaculate
of fathers.

I suppose I ought to feel honoured by this confidence,
late as it comes,' he said ; ' but I confess
that I cannot consider the prospect a brilliant one
for my daughter Barbara, who is a girl of remarkable
attractions, and might look high.'

Captain Leland wondered inwardly where the
girl was to look for a loftier suitor, unless it were in
threepenny omnibuses or on the Camberwell highroad.


I am sorry to find you consider the alliance
unworthy of your daughter's merits. I own that she
is exceptionally lovely in person and mind. But
she has lived a most secluded life. It is my happiness
to be her first suitor.'

 She is very young,' said Mr. Trevomock  'too
young to tie herself up in this absurd way. I don't
want to offend you, Captain Leland, but I cannot
give my cordial approval to an engagement which
seems to me only remarkable for its imprudence. A
girl of nineteen to engage herself to a gentleman who
is going to India almost immediately to fight the
Sikhs, who may be shot before the year is out, and
who, if he live, may or may not come back to England
three or four years hence to make her his
wife  '

'Barbara has no more doubt of my constancy
than I have of hers,' said the Captain. 'I came
here, Mr. Trevornock, because I considered that it
would be an gentlemanlike act to leave England
without seeing you. But knowing your past indifference
to the fate of your daughters, I certainly did not
expect to find you opposed to any decent alliance
which either of them might please to make.'

You are impertinent, sir,' said the solicitor,
twiddling nervously with his penknife, as if that filbert
nail of his still wanted some touches to arrive
at perfection.

V

No, Mr. Trevornock, I am only plain-spoken.
I come of a good old English family  a family that
never had a black sheep in it. Young as I am, my
name is not unknown in the Company's service. If
you are acquainted with people who know what has
been doing in India during the last few years, you
may ask them any questions you like about me. I
am not afraid of the answer. I have the honour to
wish you good-morning.'

Good-morning, Captain Leland. I am sorry I
have made myself unpleasant ; but you have taken me
by surprise. I had higher views for my daughter.'

Would it not have been better to prepare her
gently for the elevation for which you destined her ?'
asked the Captain, with quiet scorn. * She has no
idea that you ever had any views about her.'

I am not responsible for her folly. When the
proper time came I should have told her my intentions.
Well, she has chosen to go her own way. I
shall not interfere. I wish you all prosperity in
your career. Captain Leland, and that you may be
faithful to an engagement which I can but consider
hasty and ill-judged.'

I hope the result may convince you that you are
wrong, sir said the Captain stiffly. ' Good-day.'

He opened the door so abruptly that he brought
himself almost into collision with the nose of the
articled clerk, which was inconveniently close to the
door.

*A message from your Devonshire client, sir,'
said Mr. Maulford, nothing abashed. * He is sorry
he can't be here till one.'

That fellow was listening,' thought Captain
Leland, as he went down the crooked old stairs.
He is the image of Uriah Heap, and I hate the idea
of Barbara seeing him every time she visits her
father.'

He had arranged to meet the two girls at a pastry-cook's
in the Strand, and to finish the day with them
at a picture-gallery. He made his way across ,
pierced divers lanes and narrow
streets, and arrived in good time at a tawdry little
shop, where Bab and Flossie were sitting at a marble
table, in a fly-spotted apartment garnished with
libellous looking-glasses, contemplating a salt-cellar
and a pepper-box. It was a time when the eating-places

of London were small, obscure, and inconvenient,
with some few brilliant exceptions, which
were all strictly masculine. The good little Italian
coffee and ice shops were unknown. A hungry wayfarer
might have roamed all over London in quest of
a steak and potatoes a la Franchise, and a good cup
of coffee.

Well,' said Flossie eagerly, when the Captain
had ordered strawberry-ices, and taken his seat at
the marble table, ' did you see papa ?'

Yes.'

And was he nice ?'

Do you wish me to be strictly candid ?'

You know I delight in candour.'

Then I'm afraid I must say that he was nasty.'

Now you'd hardly expect that from a man who
is nobody's enemy but his own,' said Flossie, with
an aggrieved air. ' 1 thought he would have been
delighted at the idea of getting rid of one of us. I
daresay if you had offered to take me to India he
would have been in raptures. But Barbara never
asks him for anything ; she only sits and twaddle
her parasol.'

Your father had higher views for you, Barbara,'
said the Captain, with a tender look at his betrothed.
Can I blame him for that ?'

Barbara opened her lovely eyes to their widest
extent, full of innocent wonder.

What can he mean by higher views ?' she
asked.

He thinks you worthy of a suitor better placed
in the world  more independent than a soldier in the
service of John Company.'

But we don't know a mortal in half such a good
position as yours,' protested Flossie; you are quite
the grandest person we have ever been intimate with.
Really the author of our being is lapsing into idiocy.'

'Never mind his idiocy, Flossie,' said the Captain,
smiling at her seriousness ; ' I have made him
understand pretty plainly that Barbara and I are
engaged, and that we shall not wait for his consent
to get married.'

What do you think of the Author ?' asked
Flossie.

Of your father ? Well, he looks like a gentleman.'


He always looks clean,' said Flossie ; ' his shirt-fronts
and wristbands are perfection. If anything
could reconcile me to his manifold shortcomings, it
would be his cleanliness. I could not respect a dirty
father, if he were a Howard and a Wilberforce rolled
into one. What did you think of Mr. Maulford, pa's
articled clerk ?'

What do you think of him ?'

*I frankly detest him,' answered Flossie.

'Will you tell me why?' inquired the Captain
earnestly.

*I haven't the least idea. It is a case of Dr.
Fell. The reason why I cannot tell, but I utterly
loathe and abominate that young man.'

So do I,' said Captain Leland. ' Now I wonder,
Flossie, whether we are right or wrong ? Is it a
wise instinct that makes us dislike Mr. Maul-ford,
or is it a foolish prejudice ? Is it because
there is something of the human cobra under that
smooth exterior of his ? or is it because our eye for
colour is offended by the disagreeable tint of his
hair ?'"

I am sure he is a human cobra,' said Flossie.

" I thank thee, Jew, for teaching me that word."
First and foremost, he always listens at doors. I
have caught him at it more than once.'

I caught him to-day,' said the Captain. ' Has
he been long in your father's office ?'

Ages  three years at the least. Papa has a
great opinion of him. I believe he is to be a partner
by and by. If papa has three clients  and I
shouldn't think he had more  that will be one and
a half apiece.'

You have a very low estimate of your father's
practice.'

How can I help it ? In all the times I have
favoured him with a morning call, the nearest approach
to a client that I have seen was one elderly
woman in a poke-bonnet. Papa said she had once
owned a great deal of property, and that he was trying
to get it back for her. From my experience of
the Author's character, I should say it was much
more likely that he was trying to get what was left
of the property for himself. With the exception of
that decayed female, I have never seen a mortal in
pa's offices; and that doesn't seem much of a business

to divide between two, does it?' demanded
Flossie.

Perhaps it is a better business than it appears
to the naked eye,' said Captain Leland, not feeling
particularly cheerful about his future father-in-law.

But he dismissed all painful thoughts, and gave
himself up to the dreamy delight of watching Barbara
as she ate her strawberry-ice, savouring it with
a lingering enjoyment.

They went to the National Gallery, and prowled
about among the old pictures, in which Flossie alone
pretended to be ever so faintly interested. While
she was peering into a magnificent Claude, at that
date in a condition of unrestored dinginess, trying
to find out show it was done,' George Leland
and his betrothed stood side by side before pictures
which neither of them saw, wholly absorbed in each
other.

I hope you are not disheartened by your interview
with my father ?' Barbara faltered timidly. ' I'm
afraid he is not exactly the person you would have
chosen for a father-in-law.*

Dearest love, I chose you,' Leland answered

warmly. 'If you had fifty uncomfortable relations
in the background, it would not make a shadow of
difference.'

You are so good !' she murmured.

No, dear ; but I love you so dearly.'

VOL. I.

'when we two parted.*

It was the morning on which George Leland was
to sail. The Peninsular and Oriental steam-packet
Hesper was to leave Southampton on this September
day, which was dawning in palest yellow and faintest
purple above the roofs and steeples, the Hollands
canal, the ripening apples in the Camberwell garden,
lighting up the little bedroom where Barbara and
Flossie slept with a spectral gleam, so cold, so pallid,
so unlike all other lights of earth as to seem
unearthly.

That pale ghostly day peered in through the
white blind, and patched the little room with light.
A gleam yonder on the plaster cast of a winged
angel on the mantelpiece ; a slanting ray across the
hanging shelves where Bab and Flossie kept their
pet books, devotional and poetical ; a wandering
glimmer on the little table where Bab's workbasket

ran over with rags of unfinished work, and many-coloured
tangles of silk and wool.

Bab raised herself upon her elbow and looked,
0, how hopelessly! at the dim shrouded window.
She had been lying broad awake in her little white-curtained
bed all night, and tossing her weary head
from side to side upon her pillow, and bringing upon
herself much objurgation in muffled and sleepy tones
from Flossie, whose rest had been considerably disturbed
by these agitations. Flossie was now fast
asleep, lying on her back, with her arms folded
above her head, and her tip-tilted nose pointing
straight up to heaven ; and when Flossie was sound
asleep a cannon might have been fired in the next
room without waking her.

Bab stared piteously at the cold blank day, the
day that was to see her lover leave England. Her
cheeks were damp with those last tears with which
she had wept herself to sleep for just one hour of
troubled slumber, made terrible by dreams of parting.
She had dreamt that they two were standing
on a narrow ledge of rock, a little boat tossing below
them, her arms clinging round his neck, as if by

the sheer might of love she would have kept him
from that hungry sea. But lo, suddenly he had
slipped, he had melted from her arms ; and looking
up to the remote edge of a lurid horizon she had
seen a steamer moving swiftly across the sun-bright
waters, through weaves that seemed flecked with
blood. The little Swiss clock over the mantelpiece
a mere toy, but it kept time occasionally for a day
or two  struck five while Barbara pondered on her
dream. A gleam of colour flashed into her face, her
eyes brightened.

There would be time,' she said to herself; ' the
train leaves Vauxhall at a quarter to seven. There
would be time.'

She looked at the slumbering Flossie. It would be
unfair to say of so pretty a girl that she snored ; but
Flossie was breathing with considerable vehemence.

*I wonder whether it would be a very wrong
thing to do ?' mused Bab.  He would not think it
wrong, I know, or, if he did, he would be glad all
the same. Mamma might be a little vexed at first,
but I am sure she would forgive me. She knows
how unhappy I am.'

Barbara rose, and drew up the blind very softly,
though she need hardly have been so careful, since
the Seven Sleepers never slumbered more profoundly
than Flossie for the time being. It was by the quantity,
and not by the quality, of their slumbers that
the famous Seven distanced the younger Miss Tree


The morning was lovely : that exquisite tranquillity
of early day beautified, even sanctified, the prospect
which Barbara looked out upon. The dark
tracery of the orchard trees was so delicately defined
against that pure citron sky. The slender chimney-shafts,
the aspiring steeples, had a tone of deepest
purple yonder where the higher heaven was brightening
to rose-colour. Clouds like painted dragons
sailed slowly across the sky. There was such an
air of utter calm upon all things that Barbara fancied
there was no one awake in the world but herself.


Yes, I daresay it is wrong,' she said to herself
softly, as she quietly began her toilet, ' but I shall
go. Why should I not do a foolish thing once
in my life, for his sake ? It will make me happier

to have seen him at the very last. Yes, it will be
just one ray of light in the darkness of the years
to come. Three years, three years, at the very
least; and through all that time he will be in the
midst of danger, face to face with death ! love,
how can I bear my life without you for three
years !'

She was dressed by a quarter to six, and then
she sat down at her own particular little table, and
wrote a few lines in pencil to Flossie :

Dear Flossie,  Tell my darling mother that I
felt almost too unhappy to live this morning, and
that my only chance of consolation is to go down
to Southampton, and see him for one little moment
at the very last. I am going by the parliamentary
train, third class, and I shall be back somehow
before dark to-night. I have just enough money
for the journey. Beg dearest mother to forgive
me. She knows how dearly I love him.  Your
affectionate Barbara.'

This note she impaled upon the pincushion with
a big shawl-pin, and then she paused for an instant,

smiling at her own image in the glass, half in
sadness, half in jest.

'It seems such a desperate thing to do she
said to herself. ' I feel almost as if I were going
to elope.'

She wore her plainest garments  a dark dressa
black-silk jacket, a neat straw bonnet, and thick
veil. It was in the days of bonnets and veils,
when women's faces were not so much in evidence
as they are now. A girl as lovely as Barbara
might pass you in the street unobserved if she
wished to do so.

Barbara knew the way to Yauxhall perfectly,
and she was a splendid walker. There was nearly
an hour for the walk, by Camberwell New-road and
Kennington Oval and streets and roads beyond.
Away she tripped through the dewy morning, under
the brightening sky, finding as she went that there
were a good many people awake in the world
besides herself. Just as she came to the station
her courage began suddenly to falter.

Suppose he should think it a very unladylike
thing for me to do?' she asked herself. 'It is

unladylike. Yes ; I feel that it is. A lady ought
to sit at home and cry quietly, all to herself.
Besides, if he had wanted to see me again, he
might have come to Camberwell. However much
he had to do at the last, he might have managed it
somehow.'

These reflections came upon her at the foot of
the squalid wooden stairs leading up to the station.
She paused, hesitated, was half inclined to turn
back, when she heard the shriek of an engine.
Her train, she thought.

'I don't care what he may think of me,' she
said; ' I will see my darling once again. How do
I know that he will ever come back to me ? How do
I know that those savage Sikhs will not kill him ?'

She ran quickly up the stairs, and arrived at
the booking-office breathless, and took her place
in a little procession of shabbily-dressed travellers 
shabby, but happily not dirty or disreputable. A
better kind of voyagers use the third class than
Luxury, reclining in the padded corner of a Pullman
car, could imagine.

Barbara took her ticket, and waited for the

heavily-laden parliamentary, which puffed itself laboriously
into the station five minutes after her
arrival on the platform. It teemed with life of the
homeliest kind ; it brimmed over with small children,
clamorous and enthusiastic about the engine,
which their parents and guardians had taught them
to call * Puffing Billy'  small children who looked
upon a railway journey as a perpetual feast of parliament
and peppermint-drops, and who made the
atmosphere savoury with those compounds. Barbara
found a corner in a caravan of families, a regular
household ark. She sat between a brace of stout
matrons, one nursing a baby, the other lavishing
her attentions upon a birdcage, in which a canary of
imbecile aspect hopped from one perch to the other
and back again throughout the journey.

For Barbara that travelling nursery scarcely
existed. The landscape, lovely with the rich colouring
of early autumn, flitted past her gaze, impressing
her as vaguely as a country seen in a dream.
She was thinking of her lover and that far-away land
whither he was going, its manifold dangers, its cruel
remoteness.

It was still early in the day, hardly more than
breakfast-time with the idle world, when * Puffing
Billy' steamed slowly into the Southampton terminus,
with its freight of domesticity and thajb one
eagerly-beating heart.

Landed on the crowded platform, a dreadful
sense of desolation seized upon Barbara. This was
the first journey she had ever taken alone ; and now
that the thing was done, the idea of its folly  nay,
of its impropriety  came upon her suddenly with
overwhelming force. She looked helplessly at the
busy passengers intent upon the scramble for their
luggage, feeling ashamed of herself because she had
no luggage to scramble for. Gradually the crowd
melted away, and there came a lull in the traffic.
Absolute loneliness crept over the scene ; and then
Barbara, standing looking idly at an advertisement
on the wall, felt as if she were the focus of every eye.
The porters were wondering about her ; the man at
the bookstall had his doubts as to her respectability.
The door of the first-class waiting-room stood invitingly
open, revealing the luxurious accommodation
within  morocco-covered seats, a Bible, a

decanter of white-brown water ; but Barbara was
too conscientious to avail herself of these comforts.
As a third-class passenger it would have seemed to
her a kind of thieving to take a seat in the first-class
waiting-room.

She wandered up and down the platform, and
then sat down on a bench and took her lover's last
letter out of her pocket.

His plans for his last day in England were
clearly stated.

I shall leave Taunton by an early train that will
land me in Southampton soon after midday. The
Hesper will start at three in the afternoon. Ah,
dear love, how sadly I shall think of you at the last I'

Soon after midday ! It was now close upon
noon. Barbara had eaten nothing that day. She
felt faint and sick, yet she had not the courage to
go to the refreshment-room, and fortify herself with
a doughy bun and a glass of lemonade. She sat on
her bench, staring vaguely at the trains for nowhere,
which were perpetually being shunted.

Presently, when the clock had struck twelve, and
time was creeping on at a pace which made every

minute seem a quarter of an hour, she mustered
courage to ask a porter how soon there would be a
train from Taunton.

The porter knew nothing about Taunton, but he
told her there was a Salisbury train due at a quarter
to one.

Three-quarters of an hour. What a heart-sickening
business it was to sit there and watch the tardy-hands
of that aggravating clock ! Her sleepless
night and the motion of the railway-carriage had
given Barbara a racking headache. Another London
train came in, and riot and confusion had the
mastery for the next ten minutes ; then again came
a lull and all-pervading emptiness. Anon the porters
began to look along the rails towards Bishop-stoke
in an indifferent manner, as if there might or
might not be a train coming. Then the bell which
had rung for the London train began to ring again ;
an engine slowly rounded a curve, and noiselessly
brought in its long line of carriages.

A number of heads were put out of windows.
Barbara's eyes roamed despairingly along that tangle
of strange faces. This must be his train. He must

be there ; but she could not see him. The faces
swelled and oscillated before her clouding eyes. Her
journey had been a useless folly. He was not there.

A dreadful humming noise, like a thousand
wheels going round, came in her ears : and all those
strange faces melted into a thick black cloud. When
she recovered her senses, she was sitting on a sofa
in the waiting-room, with her head lying on George
Leland's shoulder. His arms were round her, holding
her up. He had been putting wine to her pallid
lips; but the wine which revived her was the love
shining out of his dark eyes, the tender words
breathed into her awakening ear.

My darling, my own true love, what a surprise,
what a delight to find you here ! My sweet girl,
who brought you ? How did you come ?'

Nobody brought me,' she answered faintly, faint
from actual inanition. ' I came quite alone, by the
parliamentary train. I wanted so much to see you.
You're not very angry with me, are you, George ?'
she faltered.

Angry, my angel ! How can I ever love you
dearly enough for this sweet folly ? God knows

there is no room in my heart for more love than I
bear you.'

They were quite alone in the waiting-room ; his
arms were round her; he drew the sweet pale lips to
meet his own in a kiss that was half passion, half
despair.

my dear one, how can I leave you ?' he
murmured. * This meeting makes it harder to part.'

As, they were seated thus, side by side, the girl
locked in her lover's arms, a gentleman, debonair of
aspect, brisk of movement, carrying a neat little
leather bag and a slim umbrella, passed the window,
caught a glimpse of a face he knew, turned, and
repassed much more slowly ; then, seeing those two
wholly absorbed in each other, he lingered, and
peered in upon them through the waiting-room
window. When he had quite satisfied himself as to
the identity of these two young people, he walked
slowly away to the further end of the platform, and
remained there, watchful from a distance, till George
Leland and his sweetheart came arm-in-arm out of
the waiting-room, she white as a lily, he anxiously
intent on her wan face.

My dearest, you are so pale,' said the Captain.

I'm afraid, George,' she murmured hesitatingly,
that it's because I haven't had any breakfast. Perhaps
if I were to have a bun  '

My dear love, what an inconsiderate brute I am !
No breakfast ! and you left home so early, and you
have travelled so far. We will go to an hotel this
instant.'

But you have so much to do. There is your
luggage.'

I will manage about that. All my big trunks
are on board. I have only a few oddments,' said
the Captain, looking at a truck load of carpet-bags,
hatboxes, desks, portmanteaux, and gun-cases, which
stood abandoned and unowned in the middle of the
platform. ' Here, porter, get those things taken onboard
the steamer Hesper directly, like a good
fellow.'

He tossed half-a-crown to the man, and with
Barbara still on his arm left the station.

The gigantic hotel which now adjoins the terminus
had in those days no existence. George
Leland called a fly, and drove straight to the Dolphin

in Southampton High-street. It was the only hotel
he knew, and here he was sure of getting a decent
breakfast. He asked for a private room, and ordered
tea, coffee, cold chicken, ham and eggs, with a reckless
prodigality.

lam so sorry you should take all this trouble,'
said Barbara. A bun would have done just a
well.'

A bun ! A lump of indigestion ! My pet, is
it much that we should have one parting meal together
when you have come so far to bid me a last
good-bye ! Come and sit by this open window, dear,
and let the fresh air blow the colour back into your
cheeks. How confoundedly slow they are with this
breakfast !' cried the Captain, who had only given his
orders within the last five minutes.  I know you
are dying for a cup of tea. How good of your
mother to let you come !'

She didn't let me,' said Barbara, blushing
vehemently ; ' I came away before any one was up.
Nobody knew anything about it. I had been awake
all night  so miserable about you; and then towards
morning I had a fearful dream. And when I saw

the cold gray dawn, and knew that it was the last
day on which it was possible for me to see you,
an unconquerable desire to come and say good-bye
to you seized hold of me. I knew if I stayed at
home, that afterwards, when it was too late, I should
hate myself for not coming ; so I came, and I hope
you don't think I have done very wrong, and that you
don't utterly despise me.'

'Despise you !' cried the Captain. 'I love you
to madness.'

Yes ; but you might do that, and despise me a
little all the same.'

My love, you have done no wrong. You have
acted with true womanliness, not school girlish constraint.
I love you, I honour you, for this dear proof
of sour love. Do you think it will not make me
happy far away to remember this morning? 'she
loved me so well when we parted," I shall say to myself,
"can I doubt that she will remain constant till
I go back to her?" '

'Constant!' she echoed sadly. 'It will be no
merit in me to be constant. It is a part of my
nature to love you. George, I verily believe I loved

VOL. I. K

you at first sight, that clay I saw you come in at
the garden-gate, when Flossie was vociferating about
your dark complexion, and your moustache, and your
military air. I said nothing, but my soul was full
of admiration. You looked brave and noble ; you
were my ideal hero ; you looked every inch a soldier
a man born to fight and conquer. But, 0, how I
wish you were anything in this wide world except a
soldier, and that you were not going away this day!'

Would you like me to be a draper or a grocer ?'
he asked, ringing the bell violently for the breakfast,
which by this time had been ordered about ten
minutes. ' Why doesn't that fellow bring your tea ?'

I shouldn't like it,' said Bab, making a wry
face ; ' for I am so proud that you are what you are.
But I should like to have you at home.'

'If they would make me Commander-in-chief,
for instance, or give me some snug berth of that
sort ! No, love, I believe I was born to work and
fight ; and there is plenty of work and fighting waiting
for me out yonder. 0, here comes this tea at
last !'

A sumptuous breakfast was being laid while the

Captain grumbled : a shiny tongue, cold chicken,
kidneys and ham and eggs in covered silver dishes,
a rack of dry toast  all in vain. Captain Leland
was in no mood for eating, and Barbara could take
nothing but the cup of strong tea which her lover
poured out for her, and a little bit of toast, just
enough to revive exhausted nature. Yet they lingered
over the meal, and it was infinitely sweet to
them to be together.

Is it a dangerous passage ?' asked Barbara.
Are there ever shipwrecks ?'

'Never,' answered the Captain, with conviction;
nobody ever heard of an accident by the P. and 0.
The thing's unknown.'

I am glad of that. And does the steamer really
start at three?'

She does, love. And, unhappily it's striking
two at this moment. We must be going, Barbara.'
May I walk with you to the docks ? May I seethe
steamer ?'

Dearest, don't you think it would be better forme
to take you to the station, and put you into a
train ? There's one leaves at two thirty-five. We

should be just in time for it. I can't bear the idea
of leaving you alone in a strange place.*

No,' she cried impetuously ; ' I will not betaken
to the station. I have come to see the last of
you. I will not leave till the steamer sails. What
does it matter about me ? I am only a miserable
stay-at-home creature. No harm can come tome.'


He argued the point, but vainly. She had set
her heart on seeing him till the last possible moment.
So he consulted the time-table again, and
found that there was a train that left for London at
four o'clock, and arrived at a little after seven. A
cab would take her to Camberwell by eight.

Captain Leland paid for the breakfast which
nobody had eaten, and he and Barbara left the
Dolphin, and walked slowly down the High-street
towards the glistening water.

What a calm and happy river it looks !' said
Bab. * And to think that it is going to take all I
love away !'

Not all you love, darling. You will have your
mother and Flossie.'

My mother  yes ; I love her dearly ; and Flossie
is a good kind little thing. But I want you too.'

There was a good deal of conversation of this
kind, more or less unreasonable on Barbara's side,
yet full of an unselfish tenderness which touched her
lover's heart. They walked to and fro for a little
while on the platform by the placid shining water.
The Captain talked of the fair future that was to see
them united, and tried his utmost to cheer Barbara
with visions of happiness to come ; for there was a
growing despair in the girl's face  a look that told
of the tension of a mind racked beyond its power of
suffering  which frightened him. The time came
when her lips grew dumb. She could only answer
him by a motion of her head. Her eyes had a look
that was a hundredfold more piteous than tears.

They went together to the steamer ; and here 
so commonplace are the necessities of daily life 
the Captain was obliged to leave Barbara sitting
forlornly upon somebody else's camp-stool, while
he went to inquire about his luggage. He found
her as still as a statue, the incarnation of silent
anguish, when he came back to her. The bustle

and movement of the scene passed by her without
making the faintest impression.

Darling,' he said very gently, ' the boat will
start in five minutes. I must take you back to the
shore.'

'0!' she cried, as if she had been hurt; 'so
soon, so soon !'

Love, in a few short years I shall come back.'

They will not be short. They will be agonising
in their length. 0, write to me soon, George, at
the very first opportunity ! How shall I live till I
get your letter ?'

My dearest, think of others  your dear mother ;
she has such a strong claim upon you.'

He was leading her gently to the gangway that
that was to take her back to shore. At the last
moment, when they were standing on that frail
bridge, heedless of the gaze of the multitude, he
folded her to his heart for the last time, and let her
lips meet his in a despairing kiss.

For her the world was as empty as Eden. She
had no thought of the eyes that were looking at
her.

God bless you ; God be with you, my own dear
love !' said George Leland.

She was standing on the shore, among other
people all intent on the departing steamer. Her
lover was lost in the crowd on deck. A bell was
ringing. The turbid water was rolling up against
the keel of the vessel, as she swayed with the motion
of her labouring engines.

These partings are hard,' said a friendly voice
at the Captain's side. ' Your young wife seems
deeply affected. I hope she is not alone. No, I
see she has a gentleman with her.'

The speaker, an elderly civilian with white
whiskers and a benevolent expression, was watching
the shore through his field-glass. Leland looked
in the same direction, and saw two figures in that
fast-receding picture  Barbara and Mr. Maulford,
the articled clerk. He was standing by her side,
talking to her with an air of deepest interest.

What, in the name of all that's unpleasant,
brings that fellow here ?' thought the Captain.

TOO CIVIL BY HALF.

Can I be of any use to you, Miss Trevornock T
asked Mr. Maulford. * Let me get you out of the
crowd. Are you staying at Southampton ?'

'No,' Barbara answered, with her eyes following
the departing steamer ; ' I am going back to London
immediately. Don't take any trouble about me;
I can find my way to the station.'

I could not think of leaving you. I am going
back to town by the four-o'clock train ; till then I
am perfectly free. You are going to meet friends
at the station, perhaps ?'

The steamer was growing a mere speck far away
on the bright blue water ; but Barbara's eyes held
it still ; for her it was the centre of the universe.
Mr. Maulford repeated his inquiry.

I beg your pardon,' faltered Barbara absently;
and then suddenly becoming aware of the drift of
his question, she answered carelessly, ' No ; there

swill be no one to meet me. I am going home
alone.'

May I be permitted to take care of you on the
journey ? I am travelling by the same train.'

I Till not trouble you. I am going third class;
I daresay you are going first.'

The pleasure of being in your society will more
than compensate me for any difference in the'accom-
notation. Besides, I really think a third-class
carriage is pleasant than a first-class in such
weather as this.'

Bar the dust and the style of one's fellow-passengers,'
added Mr. Maulfprd inwardly.

*You are very kind,' said Barbara; 'I don't
want to be rude, but I had much rather travel alone.
I am out of spirits, and it would worry me to have
to talk to anybody.'

You will let me put you into your carriage, at
least.'

Of course ; I cannot object to that. But don't
put yourself out of the way to do it. The station
is so near. I know my way; there is no difficulty.'


I shall be miserable if you refuse me so small
a privilege said Mr. Maulford.

So they walked side by side to the station,
Barbara profoundly silent, the articled clerk watchful
of her white pained face.

Have you any message for your father ?' he
asked presently.

No. My sister and I will be calling on him
soon, I daresay.'

Perhaps you would prefer that I should say
nothing about my having had the pleasure of meeting
you here,' suggested Mr. Maulford, with an
unpleasant expression in his red-brown eyes.

'I do not care one straw about it,' answered
Barbara, flushing. * You are quite at liberty to tell
my father that I came down here this morning
alone to take leave of Captain Leland, my future
husband. Perhaps it is not exactly what another
girl would have done under the same circumstances;
but my father knows that Flossie and I have not
been brought up like other girls. We have lived
in our own little world.'

'And are not governed by the hard-and-fast

lines of society, with its narrow restrictions,' said
Mr. Maulford, with an odious air of patronage.
Strange that I should have happened to meet you,
wasn't it ? I came down to arrange a little hit of
conveyancing business, and, finding myself with a
spare hour after my work was finished, strolled to
the docks, where there is always something going
on. Here we are at the station. I'll go and see if
the train's made up, and secure you a good place.
I wish you would let me exchange tickets with you ;
you might find the first class more comfortable.'

No, thank you. I am more at home in a third-class
carriage. I travelled down very comfortably.
There were nice motherly women with birdcages.'

Very well ; I'll try to find you some motherly
women for the return journey. I suppose you don't
insist upon birdcages.'

Barbara sat on the bench where she had waited
for her lover's coming, while Mr. Maulford went off
to make his inquiries. She was thinking of that
departing steamer, sailing so blithely over a summer
sea ; she was following it with her thoughts, as she
had followed it a little while ago with her eyes.

Mr. Maulford came back to say that he had found
a seat in a comfortable compartment where there
was a motherly female.

*It's a second-class carriage he said, as he conducted
Barbara to the train. ' It's all right ; I've
squared the guard.'

I'm sorry you've taken so much trouble,' said
Barbara, writhing under the sense of obligation ;
the third class would have done just as well.'

I wish you'd let me travel in the same carriage.'


I'd much rather be alone.'

Very well, Miss Trevornock ; your will is law.
Don't take any trouble when you get to the terminus;
I shall be in the way to put you into a
cab.'

Thank you,' said Barbara, hating him intensely
for his civility.

She told him that she had started from Yauxhall,
but he said it would be better for her to go on to
Waterloo. She would be more sure of a cab.

All through the homeward journey her thoughts
were following her lover, following him with sadness

and longing. Sometimes a tear slid slowly down her
pale cheeks under her veil, she too deep in thought
to know that she was crying. The motherly female
made her hospitable offers of sandwiches and butter-scotch,
which were politely declined. The journey
seemed to prolong itself to an unendurable tedium.
Towards the latter part of the time she began to
think a little of her mother and Flossie, and what
would be their opinion of her day's work.

'I don't care much,' she said to herself; 'it
would hardly hurt me if mamma were angry. My
heart is one big pain.'

Mr. Maulford appeared directly the train stopped,
as if he had been waiting on the platform. Barbara
thought he must have risked his life in getting to
her so quickly. He put her into a cab, paid the
driver, and took his ticket.

I've paid the man,' he said, putting his head in
at the window. ' These fellows always try to impose
on a lady. Good-evening !'

Good-evening,' answered Barbara coldly, very
ungrateful for attentions which had been forced upon
her; and as the cab drove off she flung herself back

in a corner, and sobbed out her great sorrow, while
the vehicle jogged along the Waterloo-road, where
the meagre dimly-lighted shops looked the quintessence
of shabbiness.

She need not have feared anger at home. She
was welcomed like the returning prodigal.

you poor tired thing !' cried Flossie, prancing
out to receive the wanderer. ' How white and ill you
look ! And the idea of coming home in a cab ! What
recklessness ! Come up-stairs and take off your bonnet.
We've got such a tea ! Do be quick, dear. I'm
absolutely starving.'

Mrs. Trevornock was in the hall.

My foolish darling !' she said, giving Barbara a
hug. ' However could you do such a thing ? I've
been wretched about you all day.'

And I thought if ma made one of her hot cakes
for tea it would distract her mind,' interjected Flossie.
* She did nothing all the afternoon but moan
about railway accidents  as if an express was going
to run into a parliamentary just because you were
travelling !'

Ten minutes afterwards they were all sitting

snugly at the round table in the garden parlour, the
table where George Leland had sat so often in the
brief happy summer. Barbara's spirits revived in that
loving companionship. She enjoyed Mrs. Trevor-neck's
strong tea and the inimitable pound - cake,
and she was able to tell her adventures, which Flossie
insisted upon having in detail. That young lady
was particularly impressed by the breakfast at the
Dolphin.

I never was inside an hotel in my life,' she said,
or at any rate since I can remember. What a
heavenly breakfast ! Shouldn't I have appreciated
it ! I'm afraid you didn't, Bab.'

I wasn't very hungry,' answered Barbara, smiling
faintly.

No, you reserved your appetite for the widow
and the orphan's tea,' said Flossie.

THE CORNISH CLIENT.

Nearly a year had gone since the sailing of the
Hesper. The roses in the Camberwell garden, the
sweet smelling purple stocks and carnations, breathing
all the spices of Ceylon, were basking in the
July sunshine. Barbara was sitting in a wicker-chair
under the biggest of the pear-trees, while
Flossie lay on the grass at her sister's feet, reading
a well-thumbed novel, borrowed, at a penny the
volume, from the limited collection of a shabby little
library in a shabby little street near at hand. There
had been no more partial boarders at 20 South-lane.
Mrs. Trevornock had managed to get on somehow
without that source of income. She and the two
girls had pinched and scraped, and been infinitely
happy in doing without things. They were able to
live upon so little. The boxes from aunt Sophia
supplied them with plenty of finery. That agony of
being shabbily clad, which women feel so keenly,

was not imposed upon them. The girls always
looked better dressed than any of their neighbours.
Thus they had lived on, from hand to mouth, contentedly.
If illness had come with its manifold
expenses the little household must have been shipwrecked,
or must have sent forth a cry for help to
the rich relations, who had done so much to help
already. Happily there had been no such calamity.
Barbara had drooped a little after her lover's departure,
but had speedily taken courage, and had resumed
the even tenor of her way with all her old
sweetness.

It had been decided, in family council across the
cosy tea-table, that there should be no more partial
boarders.

We should feel as if we were vulgarising ourselves
if we were to open our doors to any comer,*
remarked Mrs. Trevornock.

We might get a vulgarian,' said Barbara.

We might get a husband for ney said Flossie ;
'Bab has had her turn.'

You wouldn't like our house to be a husband-trap,
Flossie ?' remonstrated Barbara.

VOL. I. L

no, of course not. But still you have had
your chance, you know : and if I don't meet with a
husband in this house I am doomed to die an old
maid, attached to cats and things, and looked down
upon by my fellow-creatures. The three or four acquaintance,
with whom we have the honour of drinking
tea occasionally, can't produce an eligible young
man among them.'

I don't think Captain Leland would like us to
take another boarder,' said Mrs. Trevornock.

Perhaps not ; but it's rather hard that Captain
Leland's jealousy should be allowed to stand in my
light,' protested Flossie.

This ill-used damsel found her wishes overruled
by the majority. No further advertisement, from
this one particular lady, with a house larger than
she required, appeared in the columns of the Times,
and the Trevornocks managed to fight the battle of
daily life without the aid of a boarder. The house
looked bright and pretty, the little maid-of-all-work
received her wages on quarter-day, the tax-collector
went away satisfied, and the surrounding tradesmen
had no right to speak evil of Mrs. Trevornock. If

the dinners at 20 South-lane were skimpy  or sometimes
even non-existent  the teas were luxurious.
The little servant was red and chubby, though there
were days on which no butcher's-meat crossed the
threshold of her mistress's door.

Captain Leland had proved, so far, an excellent
correspondent. Every mail brought Barbara a letter,
in which, on the flimsiest of paper, the Captain
related all that he had done, and discoursed eloquently
upon all he felt, in that language which is
the delight of lovers and the wonder of everybody
else.

Barbara read and re-read the flimsy letters, wept
over them a little in secret, and replied in letters
of even greater length, lavishing the treasures of
her young soul upon her far-away lover, having nothing
to tell him but her love, and telling that with
the passion of an undeveloped poet.

The happiest days of her eventless life were
those on which she wrote to her betrothed. Those
days were held sacred in the little household.
Mother and sister respected her privacy. Bab must
have the front parlour all to herself, they said. Bab

was writing her Indian letter. And on such days
Flossie and her mother would devote themselves to
some special task of tidying or muddling, as the
case might he. They would look over the half-forgotten
treasures of some upstairs cupboard, as
various as the contents of a marine store dealer's
shop. They would arrange and classify ancient
rubbish, and waste time with a semblance of being
intensely industrious. Only by such innocent self-deceptions,
unconscious as the delusions of lunacy,
could the burden of a monotonous life have sat so
lightly on these simple women's shoulders.

One bright July morning Mrs. Trevornock sat
down to breakfast with a countenance of unusual
gravity. She breathed a gentle sigh as she poured
out the tea, and she watched Flossie's bold onslaught
on the four-ounce pat of butter with a gaze of mild
reproachfulness.

My dears,' she said presently, ' I have got
another tax.'

mother dear, don't say that !' cried Bab. * I
thought we were clear till next Christmas.'

So did I, Bab, when I told you so,' sighed Mrs.

Trevornock. 'But you know I always have been
stupid about those tax-papers  '

Frightfully dense, poor dear ma, I admit,' interjected
Flossie.

And I had quite overlooked this one. It's
Queen's, I believe, and it's rather heavy.'

'Queen's, indeed!' ejaculated Flossie. *Why
can't Victoria carry on her affairs without worrying
us ? We don't go to Windsor Castle to worry her.
It's a ridiculously one-sided arrangement !'

It comes to one pound seven - and - sixpence
for the half-sear,' said Mrs. Trevornock; 'and
if it's not paid by next Thursday I shall be summoned.'


Here Mrs. Trevornock became suddenly absorbed
in the teapot, which wanted more water ; and when
she had gazed into the teapot for some moments, as
if intent upon finding an augury in the leaves, she
lifted her eyes and looked with meek appeal at
Flossie.

0,' cried that young lady, with an impatient
shrug of her shoulders, 'I know what you mean,
ma, and you might just as well speak out. You

want me to go and see if I can get the money out
of Mr. T.'

This was Flossie's way of speaking of her father.

I thought you and Barbara might call on him
this morning, dear.'

I and Barbara !' exclaimed Flossie. ' You
might just as well say I and an umbrella. Bab is
no more use than one. She doesn't back me up by
so much as a word, but only sits and looks a picture
of placid loveliness. However, I suppose we must
go and see what can be done. It's lucky you've one
daughter who's not afraid to speak her mind. I
should never get a sixpence out of Mr. T. if I
didn't make him shake in his shoes.'

Half an hour after breakfast the two girls set out
upon their expedition. Funds were at a low ebb in
South-lane, too low even to allow the cheap luxury
of a Waterloo omnibus ; but the girls thought
nothing of a walk to Gray's Inn on a fine fresh
summer morning, when the shops in the Wal worth-road
looked their brightest, and there was a gaiety
in the atmosphere as of unseen birds and butterflies.
There was a good deal of dust at the corners of bye-streets,

but the newly - watered roads breathed a
refreshing coolness, suggestive of woodland streams.
Gray's Inn, with its grassy lawns and famous catalpa
tree, planted by Francis Bacon, seemed a have of
greenery on this July morning.

What a nice shady sober old place it is !' cried
Flossie. * I almost wish ice had chambers here. It
would be so handy for the theatres.'

The customary boy opened the door, aud Mr.
Maulford emerged as usual from his adjacent den,
eager-eyed and politely officious.

I think you will have to wait a few minutes,
Miss Trevornock,' he said, addressing Barbara  he
always ignored Flossie. 'Your papa has a client
with him.'

The bells shall be rung, and the mass shall be
sung,' murmured Flossie, to whom an actual client
in her father's office seemed a phenomenon worthy
of note.

'I believe he's just going,' said Mr. Maulford.
I'll announce you if you like, and that will hurry
him.'

Before Barbara could say no, the articled clerk

opened the door and announced ' Miss Trevor-neck
and Miss Flora.'

A tall ungainly-looking man was standing in
front of the office-table talking to Mr. Trevornock.

Barbara thought him the awkwardness man she
had ever seen. He was largely-made and broad-shouldered,
but bony. All the angles of his figure
were prominently defined under his loose gray
garments. His clothes seemed of coarser fabric than
the stuffs commonly worn by gentlemen in those
days. He had large features, regular in outline,
but ruggedly cut. His face was weather-beaten;
his coarse hair and whiskers were of dull brown
mixed with duller gray. His shaggy brows made a
penthouse over his severe gray eyes. He wore no
gloves. His boots were thick and clumsy, and his
very indifferent hat was flung carelessly the back
of his head.

A very common kind of person,' thought
Flossie, dropping into a chair, after saluting her
father with a pert little nod.

The client looked round at the entrance of the
young ladies, and hastily removed his hat, which

appeared to be a repository for old gloves and business
documents.

I think that's all, Trevornock,' he said. ' You
perfectly understand me? I'll stand no nonsense
from these people.'

I should have known that without your telling
me.' said Mr. Trevornock, without looking up from
his desk. *You never do stand nonsense of that
kind.'

Of course not. If they can't pay they must
turn out. T\Tiat is it to me that they and their
people have had the land seventy years ? That kind
of sentiment won't fill my pockets.'

*Much more likely to empty them,' replied Mr.
Trevornock.

The client took up his walking-stick, which was
as thick as a young tree, and moved towards the
door slowly, hesitatingly, with his eyes fixed on
Barbara, as if he were in danger of taking root on
the office-floor in the intensity of his wonderment.
When the two girls had entered he had been absorbed
in his business, and had not honoured them
with a glance. Only by the clerk's announcement

and the rustling of their garments had he known
that they were women. Now he perceived that one
of them was a lovelier woman than his eyes had
ever looked upon, or so at least Barbara seemed to
him in this moment of surprise. He was not a
student of female loveliness, or of art, or books, or
any of those things which make life beautiful ; but
he had an instinctive idea that this face on which
his eyes were riveted was perfect beauty.

He lingered to say a few more words to Mr.
Trevornock, and then went slowly out of the room,
with his gaze fixed on Barbara to the last.

'What an utterly horrid man!' exclaimed Flossie,
directly the outer door had shut on the stranger.

*You wouldn't say that if you knew who he
was,' said Mr. Trevornock.

'Yes, I should. My. knowledge of him wouldn't
make the slightest difference. Such hair, such
hands, such clothes, such boots, such a hat ! The
creature will haunt me like a nightmare. Pray are
all your clients like that, papa ?'

'I wish they were. That is one of the richest
men in Cornwall.'

Then what a beggarly county Cornwall must
be !' retorted Flossie. ' Can't the poor thing afford
himself a decent pair of boots ?'

The poor thing would think no more of buying
a thousand acres of land than you would of buying
a new bonnet retorted Mr. Trevornock.

And yet wears such odious boots. Perhaps
they are fashionable in Cornwall, though? Really
country people should not be allowed to come to
London without being edited and revised by a
capable person. And pray who is this gray gentleman
?'

'He is one of the largest landowners between
Launceston and St. Columb,' said Mr. Trevornock.
He is the owner of slate-quarries that produce four
thousand a year. His father was three times member
for the county. He belongs to one of the oldest
families in Cornwall. His name is Vyvyan Penrith.
Do you want to know anything more about him ?'

Yes,' answered the unabashed Flossie. ' I
should like to know who's his tailor; so that, in
the unlikely event of my ever wanting a riding-habit,
I might go to somebody else.'

*Ah,' sighed Mr. Trevornock, producing his
penknife, and going to work eagerly at this nails,
which he had been constrained to neglect for the
last hour, 'if your sister could marry such a man
as that now, instead of her beggarly Indian Captain,
she would be a lucky woman.'

I would not exchange my Indian Captain for an
emperor,' said Barbara, flaming up at this insult
to her absent lover. 'And as for that horrid gray
man, I would not marry him if I were a beggar in
the street and he offered me half his fortune.'

Well, you are never likely to be tempted,' said
Mr. Trevornock. ' Penrith is not a marrying man.
He has come to eight-and-forty years of age without
ever thinking of a wife. It isn't very likely he'll
begin now.'

Eight-ands forty !' echoed Flossie. 'I should
have thought he was a hundred. He looks like a
fossil.'

So would you, perhaps, if you had lived the
best part of your life in an old house in the centre
of a park on the Cornish moors, with only a brother
and sister for your companions, and nothing to do

from morning till night but ride round your own
land.'

Then why does he do it ?' demanded Flossie.
'Why doesn't he take a house in London and
enjoy himself? Why hasn't he a yacht? Why
doesn't he keep racehorses ? Is he a miser ?'

I think not. But he has never fallen into
the way of spending his money like other rich
men. He is perhaps a little dull. He has no
tastes or fancies. He has been brought up in a
stupid secluded way ; and he cleaves to his dull
life and his old country house as the snail cleaves
to his shell. He is not a bad fellow by any
means.'

'I daresay not, for those who can appreciate
him,' answered Flossie.

Barbara gazed dreamily out of the window at
a blank space of blue sky, and stifled a yawn.

Flossie proceeded to the business of the day.
She made her application with firmness, but with
as much modesty as she could command; and Mr.
Trevornock yielded with a better grace than usual,
tossing three sovereigns across his desk for his

younger daughter to pick up from among his
papers. This she did deftly, and then pushed the
siege a little further.

We walked all the way here,' she said, ' and
it was very warm. I'm sure you would not like
us to walk home under the midday sun. If you
could spare a little silver  '

'I wonder you don't ask for my teeth,' growled
the outraged parent, as he reluctantly produced
three-and-sixpence.

They wouldn't he any use to us,' said Flossie
naively ; ' but a few pence to buy some buns.'

'0, deuce take you!' cried Mr. Trevornock,
flinging her another sixpence. ' Why can't you
ask for what you want at once ? Here, do you
want any paper and envelopes, sealing-wax, pens ?'

He shuffled some stationery into a sheet of newspaper,
and handed the packet to his unabashed child.

If you knew what a struggle it is for us to
have to buy even those trifles,' said Flossie apologetically.


0, nonsense ! Your mother's better off than I
am. She has no office to keep, no clerks to pay.'

*No ; but she has two daughters to provide for,'
answered Barbara, who rarely took part in these
discussions.

'Well, good-bye, girls,' said her father hurriedly.
' I've a great deal of work to get through
this morning.'

His daughters took the hint and their departure,
Flossie delighted with her success.

*What would ma do if she hadn't me?' she
exclaimed triumphantly.

PATERNAL INSTINCT IN MR. T.

Three days after that visit to the office in Gray's
Inn the most wonderful event happened. Mr. Tree
sent his elder daughter a card for a private
box at the Haymarket Theatre.

Such a thing had never before befallen the little
family in South-lane. That Mr. Trevornock should
voluntarily stretch forth his hand to give them pleasure
was an altogether inscrutable thing.

'I can't make it out said Barbara, looking intently
at the card.

'It doesn't look like an order,' remarked Flossie,
with a business-like air, ' but it must be one, all the
same. Mr. T. would never put his hand in his
pocket to buy us a treat of this kind. I suppose
some one gave him the ticket, and he didn't know
what to do with it, until it flashed upon him all at
once that he had a wife and daughters.'

There was even a little note with the ticket :

Dear Barbara,  I enclose a box for the Hay-market
for next Tuesday evening. Ask your mother
to take you and Flora. I understand the comedy
now being performed there is well worth seeing. 
Your affectionate father, T. Trevornock.'

It's monstrously civil of him,' said Flossie ; ' I
begin to think that he must be dotingly fond of us,
after all.'

The girls had not left off wondering at this unwonted
attention on the paternal part when Tuesday
came, and they set off under the maternal wing for
the friendly Waterloo 'bus, which was to deposit
them almost at the door of the theatre. Their fresh
muslin gowns, their blooming faces, made an oasis
of beauty in the 'bus, where the pervading effect was
dinginess. They had white gloves and fans and
other trifles of adornment in their mother's reticule,
and the cloak-room of the theatre was to see the
final touches of their toilet.

Behold them anon seated in their box, adorning it
as flowers adorn a window, so fresh in their attire

VOL. I. M

and altogether lovely that it is difficult to believe
they did not roll up to the theatre in a well-appointed
brougham.

The play was one of those high and dry modern
comedies for which this theatre used to be celebrated
well acted, well put upon the stage, without any
pretension of elaborate realism, well dressed, without
extravagance or eccentricity, having altogether a respectable
and almost classic flavour.

For Barbara and Flossie to be at a theatre at all
was for the time being to inhabit Paradise ; and even
Mrs. Trevornock was deeply interested, though not
without a backward glancing thought of the young
serving-maid, and whether she might or might not
contrive to set the house on fire. She had even distracting
ideas about an eighteen penny lobster to be
bought, possibly bargained for, on the way home.
Yet she enjoyed the play, and pronounced sound
criticism on its merits, as became a woman of some
culture, who had read and thought in her time, although
at present absorbed in domesticity.

The first act was over, and the two girls were
surveying the house with bright young eyes which

needed no aid from opera-glasses, when there came
a knock at the hox-door.

Gracious !' cried Flossie, 'what can that mean ?
I hope it isn't some one come to say that the ticket
is a forgery. I give Mr. T. credit for a good deal,
but hardly for forging theatre-tickets.'

'I suppose we had better open the door,' said
Mrs. Trevornock dubiously ; and at this moment the
knock was repeated.

I daresay it's only some one worrying with ices,'
cried Flossie, darting to the door, which she opened
with an energy indicative of impatience. 'No, thank
you, we don't want any,' she said sharply, before the
door was quite open. But on looking at the intruder
she perceived to her horror that it was not a young
woman with a tray of ices, but a tall man in dress-clothes,
a man of angular figure, whom she recognised
at a glance as Mr. Penrith, her father's Cornish
client.

I beg your pardon,' she stammered ; ' I thought
you were refreshments.'

He seemed hardly to hear her. His eyes looked
over her head towards Barbara.

Barbara.

I recognised you and your sister from the other
side of the theatre he said, ' and I thought I might
venture to pay my respects. Will you present me to
your mother ?'

With pleasure,' answered Flossie. ' Ma, this is
one of pa's clients. Ma, Mr. Penrith. Mr. Pen-ruth,
ma.'

Barbara had risen from her chair, blushing, not
with pleasure, at the stranger's advent. She could
not withhold her hand when Mr. Penrith held out
his.

How do you like the play ?' he asked, addressing
himself to Mrs. Trevornock, and dropping into the
unoccupied chair, with an air of being very much at
home.

Mrs. Trevornock told him her opinion of the first
act.

And the young ladies ?' he asked, looking at
Barbara from under his bushy brows ; ' I hope they
are pleased.'

How can we help being pleased ?' exclaimed the
loquacious Flossie, who left very little margin for
other people's conversation. ' We go to a play about

once in a blue moon. I'm sure I can't imagine what
inspired pa to send us a box for the theatre. It's
quite out of keeping with his character to do such a
thing.'

Perhaps, while I am in town, you will allow me
to send you tickets now and then ?' said Mr. Pen-ruth.
* I get a good many.'

0,' exclaimed Flossie, ' then I daresay it was
you who gave pa this one.'

Yes, I sent him a box for to-night. I had no
idea he would make such good use of it.'

!' said Flossie, beginning to make her own
conclusions at a tremendous rate.

Yyvyan Penrith looked just a little more civilised
in his conventional suit of black than he had appeared
in his shooting-clothes and hobnailed boots ;
but he was still far below the standard of elegance.
His bony angles were too obvious, his arms and legs
were too long. His iron-gray hair and whiskers
were in sore need of the barber's art; his complexion
testified to nearly half a century's hard usage.

The curtain rose, and Barbara riveted her attention
to the stage, replying only by monosyllables to

Mr. Penrith's persevering attempts to draw her into
conversation. Flossie's attention was divided between
the play and the stranger. She could not
wholly withdraw her attention from him, though she
was deeply interested in the play.

Having established himself in the seat behind
Mrs. Trevornock, Mr. Penrith showed no desire to
withdraw. He was not in a very convenient position
for seeing the play, but he remained for the rest of
the evening, making himself as agreeable as he could
to Barbara's mother, and trying very hard to improve
his acquaintance with Barbara.

When the play was over he escorted the ladies to
a cab, paid the driver and took his ticket, just as
Mr. Maulford had done upon a previous occasion.

Mrs. Trevornock remonstrated, and tried to push
her poor little purse into his hand, but in vain.

You must really allow me,' he said ; and Mrs.
Trevornock allowed him.

*Well, ma,' exclaimed Flossie, as they drove
past all the grandeurs of Trafalgar-square, * what do
you think of the horrid man ?'

I think him one of the most gentlemanly men

I ever met,' answered Mrs. Trevornock, who was
enthusiastic and fickle.

mamma !' ejaculated Barbara, with deep-toned
reproachfulness.

*He certainly improves on acquaintance,' said
Flossie. * And he is going to send us more tickets
for the play. If he always pays our cabs in that
polite way, it will be very nice.'

*I am going to no more of his plays,' said Barbara.
'I detest him !'

0, nonsense !' cried Flossie. ' What's the good
of detesting people who can be useful to one ? I
agree with mamma. Mr. Penrith's manners are
eminently gentlemanlike ; and when one considers
that he has slate-quarries and things  '

Two days after the evening at the Haymarket,
Mr. Penrith called in South-lane. He had had a
box given him for the Olympic, where Robson was
delighting everybody in the Wander'uif/ Minstrel;
and he had thought it best to bring the ticket himself.
He came at a discreet hour in the afternoon,
when Mrs. Trevornock's household duties were over,

and she was able to receive him without embarrassment.
In the hospitality which was natural to her
she was sorely tempted to ask him to tea ; but she
refrained, lest so homely an invitation should bring
discredit on herself and daughters. The delightful
institution of afternoon tea  before dinner  was
unknown in those days ; and to mention tea at five
o'clock was a frank confession of bourgeoisie. So
Mrs. Trevornock, having no wine to offer, offered
nothing except the refreshment of a walk round the
garden, which Mr. Penrith accepted greedily, having
caught a glimpse of two girls in muslin frocks,
sitting under the apple-tree.

'It must seem a very poor little garden to you
after your place in Cornwall,' said Mrs. Trevornock,
with an apologetic air.

0, my gardens are nothing particular. I pay
very little attention to them. The flowers grow
well enough, I believe, though we are nearly a
thousand feet above the level of the sea. But I
have no taste for horticulture. My sister has her
own special garden, and takes a pride in its cultivation
; but I don't understand those things. I feel

rather bored when she tells me the names of her
plants.'

*A sister!' thought Mrs. Trevornock; and she
began incontinently to picture to herself a feminine
edition of Mr. Penrith.

The girls rose from their low basket-chairs at
sight of the visitor.

Is it not extremely kind of Mr. Penrith ?'
asked the mother. * He has brought us a box for
the Olympic'

Barbara said not a word, but Flossie turned
cherry-coloured with delight.

'How intensely good of you!' she exclaimed.
It is the one desire of my life to see Robson.'

'I am very proud to be able to gratify it,' said
Mr. Penrith.

He lingered by the apple-tree for a little, trying
to get Barbara to talk to him, but with the least
possible success. He was favoured, however, with
a very free expression of opinion upon various subjects
from Flossie, who did her best to atone for her
sister's coldness.

I can't think how you can be so uncivil to the

man, when lie is heaping favours upon us,' remonstrated
Eloise, after Mr. Penrith had taken his
departure, and the two girls were alone in the
garden.

I don't want his favours. Can't you see through
the whole business ?' said Barbara impatiently.

*I am generally pretty clear-sighted.'
 Don't you see that my father wants this man to
marry one of us ? And he has given him mamma's
address, and encouraged him to come here.'

Well, if he has, it shows a nearer approach to
fatherly instinct than he has hitherto displayed,' said
Flossie.

I call it a cruel insult. As if he thought that
in our poverty we would be willing to marry any
rich man for the sake of his money.'

We can't both marry him,' said Flossie. ' You
are talking arrant nonsense.'

My father has no right to send this man here.'

He has a right to look after the interests of his
daughters  '

*Yes, after letting them grow up like weeds!'
interjected Bab.

And if he knows of a Cornish millionaire going
begging he is quite right in letting us have the
refusal of him.'

Flossie, you are so frivolous !'

Better to be frivolous than disagreeable. I
suppose you think because you are engaged that
nobody else has any right to think of matrimony.
I am rather fascinated with the idea of myself as
the wife of one of the richest men in Cornwall.
I was looking at Cornwall on the map last night.
It's very small. I'd rather it had been Yorkshire.'

Flossie, you never would marry such a man
as that ?'

'Well, he's not my ideal. But then you see
one might waste a lifetime looking for one's ideal.
I think it might be better to take the first millionaire
that came in one's way.'

Barbara sighed. There was no use in arguing
with such a sister as this  a being so utterly unstable,
a mere feather on the stream of life, dancing
and gyrating with every motion of the tide.

This visit of Vyvjan Penrith's made a note of
discord in the family harmony. Mrs. Trevornock

and Flossie could talk of nothing but their new
acquaintance. They speculated upon the amount
of his income. They discoursed sagely about slate-quarries
 which must be an inexhaustible source
of wealth, seeing how many slated roofs there were
in Camberwell alone.

'We are slated ourselves said Mrs. Trevornock,
alluding to her house. * Very likely our slates came
from Mr. Penrith's quarries.'

They drew fancy pictures of his house, and dwelt
much upon its being a thousand feet above the sealevel.


So airy,' said Mrs. Trevornock.

So delightful to be able to look down on all
the rest of the county,' remarked Flossie.

When the next evening came, Barbara resolutely
refused to go to the theatre.

'I don't want to interfere with your pleasure,
or Flossie's, dear ma,' she said ; ' but I really have
a headache, and I expect my Indian letter. I shall
be ever so much happier at home.'

But it will seem so ungracious to Mr. Penrith,'
objected her mother.

I can't help that, mamma ; I am under no
obligation to be gracious to Mr. Penrith. He has
forced his acquaintance upon us.'

'But, my dear, when a man of his age and
position takes so much trouble ! A client of your
father's, too ! I'm afraid he'll be disappointed
if he should happen to be at the theatre and not
see you there.'

Why should he be disappointed ? He will
have you and Flossie. Besides, the box was a
free gift. There was no appointment to meet him
at the theatre.'

Of course not, my dear.'

Half an hour later, when Flossie and her
mother were trudging to the Waterloo 'bus, Mrs.
Trevornock gave utterance to a very decided opinion.

Flossie,' she said emphatically, ' I consider
Barbara's engagement to Captain Leland the
greatest misfortune of her life.'

Why, ma ?'

'Because if she had not been engaged to him
I'm sure she mijht have married Mr. Penrith.'

LOVE, THOU ART BITTER.'

Barbara sat reading in the garden in the declining
light, very thankful for having been allowed to stay
at home. It was a womanly instinct, and not a
vain girl's consciousness of her beauty, which had
warned her that she was the attraction that drew
the Cornishman to South-lane, and had procured
this curious concatenation of theatre-tickets and
afternoon-calls. She wanted to be true to her
absent lover in the smallest acts of her life, and
she shrank from accepting attention of any kind
from another man.

She thought of the happy evenings last summer,
when Captain Leland had taken Flossie and her to
the Opera  the lovely music, the lively talk as
they drove home. What pleasure could ever belike
that ?

I feel as if I had no right to enter a theatre
while he is away,' she said to herself.

She was listening for the postman's knock all
the time. South-lane was very silent in the
summer dusk. She would hear the man's footsteps
even in the garden, she thought; yet her
impatience would not let her stay out of doors.
She went into the front room, and sat on a low
couch in the window, watching for the postman's
arrival. It was by this post that her Indian letters
generally came.

She sat looking through the leafy twilight, and
listening absently to the small servant-maid singing
' Home, sweet Home,' in a fresh young voice,
not innocent of a country twang. Neither book
nor work could occupy her thoughts in this painful
hour of expectancy. She could only watch the
bend of the lane, just visible between the branches
of lime and sycamore. Yes, here came the postman,
tramping along with his little load of trouble
and joy, as indifferent as Juggernaut.

Bang-bang ! went the knocker, as Bab flew
into the narrow hall. There was the thin foreign
letter lying on the floor cloth. It looked even thinner
than usual, miserably scraggy.

Barbara picked it up and put it to her lips,
skinny as it was.

Poor dear, he must have been dreadfully busy,'
she said to herself. 'Those accounts worry him
so.'

Captain Leland's duties for the last few months
had been as exciting as they were laborious. He
had been appointed to the command of a Corps of
Guides on the frontier, a post at once important
and desirable. In one part of his district he was
at the head of every department of business, judicial,
financial, and military. The finance question
had already given him some trouble.

'What a poor little letter!' sighed Barbara, as
she went back to her sofa by the window, to make
the most of the fading light.

This was what she read :

Dearest,  I write this to bid you good-bye.
Yes, love, there is no other course open to me.
Events have happened which make our marriage
impossible to me, as a man of honour. A shadow
has fallen on my career, so dark, that I would

not have the life of the woman I love clouded by
it. There would be nothing gained by my entering
into details. You would not understand. I do not
understand myself how this thing has befallen me.

God bless you, dear love, and good-bye. I
give you back your liberty. If you should be
pained, by and by, by hearing evil spoken of me,
you will at least be spared the torture of hearing
your future husband slandered. I shall be nothing
more to 3-ou than an old friend, with whom Fate has
dealt hardly.  Yours, in friendship and sad despairing
love, till death, George Leland.'

What was she to make of such a letter ? She
read and re-read it ; she sat staring idly at the
lines, dazed, bewildered, helpless. That he renounced
her, released her from her engagement,
flung her off utterly, seemed hideously clear ; and so
much only could she understand. What could have
happened to him to make such an act necessary?
The blood mounted to her face in a crimson flood
as she thought that one kind of involvement alone,
one kind of disgrace alone, could make it incumbent

VOL. I. N

upon him to write such a letter. An entanglement
of some kind with another woman could alone force
him to break his faith with her.

He forewarned her that she would hear evil
things said of him. The scandal, whatever it was,
had gone far and wide, then. She felt the sting
of his shame; she writhed beneath the burden
of his disgrace.

0, why could he not tell me all ?' she asked.
Why should he be afraid to trust me ?'

And then it struck her that the story might
be too shameful for him to tell to a woman whose
purity he honoured.

She went back to the letter, trying to get at
its hidden meaning, if there were anything hidden
from her.

Events had happened which made their marriage
impossible to him as a man of honour. It was he
who drew back. His honour demanded the sacrifice.
That seemed final. "What could she say against it ?
Yet something she must say. She could not surrender
him and all her hopes of happiness without
some protest.

She opened her desk and began to write, though
it would be nearly a week before her letter could
begin its journey eastward.

'Your letter has almost broken my heart she
wrote. ' It seems unanswerable, yet I must answer
it. You say that your honour forbids our marriage.
How can our marriage dishonour you, unless circumstances
have arisen that constrain you to marry
some one else ? love, if your heart has gone from
me, if you have given it to another, the change is
cruel in its suddenness. You might have given me
warning. I should not have upbraided you for your
inconstancy. I would have endured my loss and my
sorrow very patiently.

'If you have ceased to love me and learned to
love some one else, you have only to say one little
word. Or if you would rather not say even that, I
shall take your silence to mean that it is so. Let
all the past be as if it had never been. I will think
of you only as a friend who once was very dear. But
if the shadow you speak of involves you alone, if you
still love me, still in your heart of hearts wish me to

be your wife, I care nothing for what the world may
say of you. I know you well enough, I love you
well enough, to believe you against all the world.
Good report or evil report will make no difference tome.
You may freely, securely, tell me anything
evil that has happened to you ; and you may be sure
that, however dark the story may seem to the eyes
of strangers, I shall never doubt that my hero is
scatheless ; I shall never honour or admire my dear
love less than I have honoured and admired him
from the first. 0, trust me, George, trust me, withall
your heart !'

She wrote more than this, fondly repeating the
same appeal. Nothing could change her love for
him, or weaken the tie that bound her to him, so
long as he was unchanged to her.

And then when the letter was finished, blotted a
little with the hot tears that had rained upon it,
Barbara's fortitude gave way utterly, and she buried
her face in the sofa-pillow and sobbed out her passion
of grief.

It was late by this time. Dreading the return

of her mother and sister, loquacious and enthusiastic

about the evening's entertainment, Barbara went

up-stairs to bed in the summer dusk, which was

hardly darkness, too miserable to light her candle,

feeling as if the obscurity of night were in some

wise a shelter for sorrow.

Lying on her bed of woe, the tears streaming

from her tired eyes, she could still hear the servant

shrilling in the little kitchen below, like Elaine in

her tower :

'Tis the last ROSE of sui-mer
Left bloo-oo-ming A-A-A-lone,
All her lover-LY kumpanyuns
Har fa-ver-did and born !'

FIOSSIE GOES TO THE POST.

After the receipt of that letter Barbara fell ill. It
was no desperate case of brain-fever. She did not
become delirious and rave about her cruel lover.
But she was sick and sorry. She lay on her bed,
in the sunny little bedroom, and drooped, like a
flower that has been plucked ruthlessly from its
stem. She could neither eat nor sleep, and she refused
to be comforted. For a little while she tried
to keep her sorrowful secret. To all Flossie's speculations
and interrogatories she was dumb ; but on
the third day, when Mrs. Trevornock was sitting by
the bed, and the broken-hearted girl lay in those
loving arms, her head resting on the maternal
breast, the ice broke all at once, and, with tears
streaming down her pale cheeks, she told her mother
about George Leland's letter.

My dearest child,' cried the mother, melting

into tears, ' how could he he so cruel ! Show me
his letter, darling. I can't understand  '

No, mother, the letter is too sacred. I would
show you any other letter from him, but not this
one.'

And then she explained falteringly her loner's
dark hints of dishonour and disgrace.

I have written to tell him that no evil judgment
of other men could alter my trust in him,' she
said. ' I have told him that nothing hut a change
in his own feelings could make any difference tome.'


Mrs. Trevornock looked alarmed. She was so
easily impressed, poor soul, so much a creature of
the present moment ; and latterly the idea that Barbara's
engagement was in some wise unfortunate
had been gaining strength in her mind.

But, my love, you must not send such a letter
as that,' she exclaimed. *You must not marry a
disgraced man. "What would your aunt Sophia say?
He must have been doing something dreadful. Some
gambling transaction, perhaps  young men in India
gamble frightfully  or some horrid entanglement

with his colonel's wife  young men in India often
entangle themselves with their colonels' wives. I
have read of such things in novels. Let me write
to him, darling. It is a mother's duty to write and
ask him for an explanation. It is not your place to
reply to such a letter. Marry a disgraced man !
No, love, you would break my heart if you did that 
you who were born to occupy a distinguished position.
It would be bad enough for you to marry a
poor man ; and you know I never quite approved of
your engagement.'

mother, when you were so fond of George !'

I liked him, darling ; but I never liked the engagement.
He would have made a very good husband
for Flossie. Let me write to him, dear. Pray
don't send that foolish letter.'

I mush,, dear mother. This is a matter in which
I must act for myself. It is life or death with me.'

The resolute young face, the thoughtful eyes,
beautiful in their intense sadness, gave emphasis to
her words. This was no fickle soul, blown whithersoever
the weathercock of fancy pointed, but a nature
in which all the seeds of life took deep root.

Here Flossie, who exercised no authority over
her legs when she was excited, came tumbling into
the room. In one hand she held a big bunch of
loveliest yellow roses and maidenhair fern  both
rarer in those days than they are now  in the other
a basket of purple grapes, such as one sees in a
picture by Lance, or in the shop of the haughty
Solomon.

Look at these, Bab,' gasped Flossie, throwing
the roses on to the bed, ' and say if pa's client does
not improve on acquaintance. And he wants to
know if you will be well enough for the last night
of the Italian Opera  the Huguenots, at Covent
Garden  next Tuesday ; and it will be your only
chance this year, and I do hope you'll not be such
an idiot as to refuse ; and he says he's intensely
sorry you are ill ; and he has got on a black frockcoat
and gray trousers, and looks quite civilised ; and
there's a hansom waiting while he cools his heels
in our front parlour ; and will you go down and see
him, ma ?'

'I must change my gown first,' said Mrs. Trevor-neck,
looking down at the well-worn garment in

which she had been assisting the maid in her morning's
house-work ; for that little house in South-lane
was only kept the pink of perfection by means
of much labour from mistress as well as maid.
What shall I say to him, Barbara dear ?'

'Anything you like mother, as long as you
don't accept his Opera-tickets for me.'

What !' cried Flossie, lifting up her eyebrows
till they almost touched the roots of her hair, ' do
you mean to say you don't want to hear the Huguenots,
with the new soprano as Valentine ?'

I should dearly love to hear her if I could goto
the Opera with people I like  you and mother
alone, for instance. But I am not going to the
Opera with Mr. Penrith.'

He doesn't ask you to do anything of the kind.
He will only drop into our box.'

And stay there all the evening, as he did at the
Haymarket. It is too dear a price to pay for the
enjoyment of a play. Please tell him that I am not
well enough to go to theatres, and that if I were I
shouldn't care about them.'

But, my pet,' pleaded her mother, * you really

ought to distract your mind. If you give yourself
up to grief in this way you will get seriously ill.'

The girl's unexpressed thought was, ' That would
not hurt me. Death would mean release from sorrow.'

I call it absolute folly,' cried Flossie, with an
aggrieved air, when her mother had gone to change
her gown. ' Here is a gentleman rolling in money,
the dearest wish of whose life is to provide us with
amusement; and he is kept waiting in our front
parlour in a most inhuman manner  with a cab at
ever so much a minute standing at the gate  while
a disagreeable young woman turns up her nose at
his polite attentions and blights all our chances of
enjoyment. I call it disgusting selfishness.'

I don't want to prevent mamma and you accepting
his Opera-tickets, Flossie. You can go to the
Opera without me.'

'Of course we can. But when Mr. Penrith
finds one member of a small family persistently disagreeable,
he will naturally leave ofi" showing kindness
to the other members. How am I to thank
him for those divine roses and those delicious
grapes ? They were brought specially for you.'

Say anything you think proper.'

Then I shall tell him that you were longing for
purple grapes and yellow roses, and that his kindness
has anticipated the desire of your soul,' cried
Flossie, dancing out of the room almost as wildly as
she had tumbled into it.

The next day was the day for the Indian post, and
Barbara was still far too ill to go out and post her letter
with her own hands, as she would fain have done.
She got up, and experimentally with herself by a
walk across the room, and found herself so weak
and tremulous that to dream of an excursion to the
post-office would have been sheer foolishness. She
must employ Flossie in this all-important mission
a frail skiff in which to trust her fortune ; but
there was no other. It was Saturday, and for Mrs.
Trevornock to leave her house on the last day of the
week was a thing unknown. That excellent housekeeper,
indeed, was at all times, more or less, a
slave to domesticity, and was loth to intrust her
eight-roomed dwelling to the doubtful custody of a
servant.

'You'll take the greatest care of my letter, won't

sou, darling ?' asked Barbara, when she had put the
sacred charge into Flossie's hands.

Goodness gracious, child ! Yes, of course.
You know I am the ver' essence of carefulness, and
the only woman of business in this house,' cried
Flossie, admiring her fresh young face as she tied
her bonnet-strings before the looking-glass.

Then Flossie danced down-stairs to the kitchen
to get her mother's commissions to the "Walworth-road,
which, the day being Saturday, were more
numerous than usual.

Flossie was to look in at the butcher's, and
make a special request that the Sunday joint should
not be too fat, nor weigh more than seven pounds at
the uttermost. She was to call at the buttermilk's,
and order half a pound of best fi-mesh, and sixpenny-worth
of breakfast eggs. She was to ask the baker
to send a particular kind of fancy loaf for Sunday's
consumption. She was to buy ever so many
small articles at the grocer's, and bring them
home in her reticule, as that grocer's errand-boy
was a creature as tricky and uncertain as Robin
Bedfellow. She was to order a pound of composites

at the oil-and-colour shop, and she was to call
at the circulating library for the first volume of
Buller's last novel, to comfort Barbara in her sickness.


Hadn't you better write the things down ?'
suggested Mrs. Trevornock, who was making pastry
at the little table by the vine-wreathed window.
It's a good deal for you to remember.'

Providence has blessed me with a tolerable
memory,' said Flossie. 'Now, ma, the sinews of
war, please. Look sharp ! I've a letter to post for
Bab, and it must be in by four o'clock.'

0,' said Mrs. Trevornock, looking grave, as she
fumbled with a floury hand in her pocket for the
money, ' her Indian letter ?'

Yes, her Indian letter.'

Mrs. Trevornock sighed as she counted her
little stock of silver.

I hope Barbara is not going to be poor all her
days, like me,' she said. ' One's life seems such a
long journey when one has to calculate the cost of
every step. I should like my darling to marry a
rich man.'

So should I,' said Flossie ; * if it were only for
the sake of poor rae.'

Flossie on her perambulations on a fine summer
afternoon was a creature to observe and study, a
being of the butterfly species altogether, yet with a
certain stratum of sound sense under her butterfly
frivolity. The fact that she had business on hand
was never absent from her mind ; yet she contrived
to get as much amusement as she could on her way.
She looked her prettiest on these occasions  her
bonnet neatly put on, her bonnet-strings a picture ;
her gloves, in their small way, perfection ; her muslin
gown brightened by a ribbon just where a dash
of colour was needed. People looked at her and
admired her as she went by ; but no one ever
doubted that she was a young lady. The days of
that half-world which lies between respectability and
the disreputable had not yet come. Powder and
paint and darkened eyebrows were the livery of a
race outside the pale. There was no compromise
between virtue and vice in that simpler epoch.

It was astonishing what a large amount of
amusement Flossie was able to derive from the contemplation

of shop-windows which she saw nearly
every day. Looking at shops with Flossie was
almost a passion. She stopped to gaze into the
most insignificant windows. The scent-bottles and
pomatum-pots and packets of court-plaster at the
chemist's ; the Berlin-wool patterns at the fancy
shop ; the toys, the trumpery, the sham jewelry,
the Brummagem brooches, tinsel bracelets, all interested
her. But these were as nothing compared
with a display of bonnets, gloves, ribbons, parasols,
and French flowers at eleven pence three-farthings
the spray. Over these she gloated for ten minutes
at a stretch, trying to make up her mind what she
would buy when she had a half-sovereign to spend
for herself. To-day she was in a particularly volatile
humour. Mr. Penrith's theatre-tickets had
demoralised her. She was thinking of Robson ; she
was forecasting the bliss of an Italian opera. She
found it harder than usual to fix her mind on
butcher's-meat and grocery. She fluttered past the
butcher's shop, on the wings of her muslin frock,
forgetting that she had a message to deliver there,
and fluttered back again conscious-stricken from the

other side of Addington-square. She had not her
usual grasp of the situation at the grocer's, and
blundered about the quarter of a pound of orange
pekoe which was to perfume the family teapot.
Her ideas were disarranged. Slate-quarries and old
Cornish mansions a thousand feet above the sealevel
mixed themselves with the daily humdrum of
fancy bread and lump-sugar. She found herself
speculating upon what might have been her fate had
Mr. Penrith been attracted by her charms instead
of Barbara's ; whether she could ever have brought
herself to look over his awkwardness of gait and
figure, and to accept the mansion and the quarries.

She had decided that these drawbacks were not
unconquerable, and she was already in imagination
reigning over the Cornish household and riding
thoroughbred horses over the Cornish moors, when
she pulled herself up suddenly at the post-office,
and came down with a tremendous drop from the
airy realms of fancy to the solid world of fact.

'Gracious!' she exclaimed inwardly, 'Barbara's
letter!'

Barbara's letter ! Where was Barbara's letter '?

VOL. I.

The joy or woe of two lives hangs upon that sheet
of flimsy paper. The fate of two strong and steadfast
souls has been trusted to this butterfly creature,
and the result is ruin.

Flossie searched her reticule and turned her
pocket inside out in vain. The letter was gone.
She turned hastily and hurried back ever so far,
perusing the pavement with her eyes. In vain. She
asked the most unlikely people if they had picked
up a letter. She looked down the gratings before
her favourite shop-windows ; she went back to the
baker's, the butcher's, the grocer's, and fluttered
those respectable tradespeople by her eager inquiries
; but there was no trace of Barbara's letter.
That message of faithful love, that fond despairing
appeal to a lover's heart, had disappeared as completely
from Camberwell as if the winds of heaven
had taken pity upon the writer and wafted it away
to the Indian seas.

'What shall I do?' thought Flossie, standing
on the pavement, staring wildly round in an agony
of remorse. * Barbara would never forgive me, if
she knew how careless I have been.'

But Barbara ought to know, and Barbara could
easily write another letter, argued reason ; and
Flossie went slowly homewards, framing the apologetic
speech in which she should confess her sin.

She felt deeply humiliated. She, who had been
wont to assert herself as the one business-like individual
in the family, to be thus convicted of dire
carelessness ! "Where henceforward would be her
pretensions ? She had yielded the palm to Barbara
in beauty and in intellectual acquirement, but she
had asserted herself always as the sole proprietor of
practical wisdom. She walked slowly into the sunshiny
kitchen  where Mrs. Trevornock was setting
the betray, while Amelia hearthstone the back
premises with a view to all-pervading spotlessness
on the coming Sabbath  and sank exhausted into a
chair by the open window, where the vine, which
never in its life had grown an eatable grape, pushed
in its leaves and tendrils so prettily. She had a
guilty look, which struck her mother at once.

'I hope you haven't forgotten anything,' cried
Mrs. Trevornock, as she warmed the teapot.

No, ma dear.' *

You called at the butcher's ?'

eyes.'

And you have brought the pekoe, and a teacake
for Barbara's tea ?'

Yes ; here's the teacake. I'll toast it if you
like.'

No ; you look tired, and you're as pale as a
ghost. Was it very warm out of doors ?'

It was  for me. It's no use trying to hide it,
mother,' cried Flossie, in a gush of candour; 'I've
done something dreadful.'

You've lost my change !' exclaimed Mrs. Tree
horror-stricken.

'Change, indeed!' cried Flossie; 'why, there
was only sentence-halfpenny left after I'd paid
for everything. It's much worse than that.'

'You horrid girl, how you are torturing me!'
said the aggrieved mother, letting the kettle boil
over unheeded, to the detriment of a newly whitened
hearth. ' For mercy's sake speak out, and have
done with it !'

I've lost Barbara's Indian letter.'

Lost it ?'

Yes ; I must have dropped it into an area, or
let it fly away into the clouds. It's gone.'

Mrs. Trevornock looked fully alive to the enormity
of the offence, but she answered not a word.
Profound thoughtfulness took possession of her.
She had just enough consciousness of common
things to snatch up the kettle, which was now
making a Great Geyser of itself, and to fill the
teapot ; hut, for the rest, her thoughts were faraway.


you might say something sympathetic, ma,'
observed Flossie, aggrieved by this silence ; ' I
shall have a nice scolding from Bab. Her inmost
thoughts bandied up and down the Walworth-road
and circulated all over Camberwell ! I'm sure I
don't know however I shall bring myself to tell
her.'

Mrs. Trevornock sat down, and looked at her
daughter doubtfully.

Suppose you were not to say anything about it,
Flora ?' she said.

*Why, then poor George Leland would be languishing
for a letter  '

Flossie,' interrupted Mrs. Trevornock solemnly,
there are reasons why it would be much better for
Barbara that Captain Leland never got that letter.
I don't mind trusting you, for you have plenty of
common sense, and know how to look at things in a
practical way.'

Well, ma, I am not ridiculously romantic, like
Bab ; and though I am only eighteen, I have some
knowledge of the world.'

An enormous amount for so young a girl,' said
Mrs. Trevornock approvingly. swell, dear, I am
sorry to say poor Captain Leland, who was always
so gentlemanlike and so kind, and whom I really
loved, has got into some dreadful trouble  whether
it is gambling or something worse, I don't know, and
Heaven only knows how it may end  and he has
had the proper feeling to write to Barbara, releasing
her from her engagement  '

'Very nice in him,' said Flossie. 'And that is
why Barbara has been breaking her heart ?'

Yes, poor darling child ! And, in spite of all
I could say, she has been foolish enough to write
and tell him that nothing can change her love for

him, and that she will be true to him through evil
report and good report  '

And that is the letter I have managed to lose !'
cried Flossie, jumping up, and executing her favourite
pas seiil round the kitchen. 'Why, what a clever
girl I am ! I really thought I had been stupid for
once in my life, and behold, my stupidity was a
stroke of genius ! Give me your benediction, mother.
Bab shall marry the slate-quarries, and you and I
will walk in silk attire all the rest of our lives.'

Flora, Flora, how wild you are !'

'I am only pleased with my unconscious ingenuity.
To think that I, who never lost a letter
before in my life, should go and lose just that one !
I shan't say one word to Bab. The Captain will
think she accepts his release, and he will consider
the engagement at an end. And Barbara will be
Mrs. Penrith, and one of the richest women in
Cornwall; and all my doing ! And now let me toast
the teacake, and get her tray ready. Poor dear pet,
she shall have a nice tea !'

And the mother and sister, who were dealing
with Barbara's fate as if they were wiser than Providence,

and knew better how to regulate life and its
chances, thought they were making some amends for
their duplicity by small attentions and trivial tenderness,
such as are given to a sick child as compensation
for weary hours and nauseous medicines.

SILENCE.

Her letter on its way to India, as she supposed,
Barbara began to count the days which must pass
before she could receive her lover's reply ; and the
fond expectation of this answer, which would doubtless
reward her faith by the assurance of George
Leland's unchanged and unchangeable love, cheered
and comforted her. She revived and bloomed again,
like a flower which has bent to the storm, and
seemed almost the old, bright, happy Barbara in the
small family circle ; whereat her mother and Flossie
concluded that the barb had never gone deep into
her heart, that she had liked Captain Leland only
because he was at hand to be liked, and that she
had a stock of affection ready to be transferred to a
more worthy object.

A blank and monotonous tranquillity characterised
the period of falling leaves and fading flowers in

South-lane. The angular Cornishman had gone
back to his moor and his slate-quarries, disgusted by
Barbara's incivility, no doubt, as Flossie remarked
complainingly on several occasions.

The very first influential friend we ever had,'
grumbled the damsel, * and Bab must needs make
herself disagreeable to him. A man who could get
endless orders for the theatres.'

I feel convinced that he has no more influence
at the theatres than you have, Flossie,' protested
Barbara. * He bought all those tickets.'

All the more to his credit if he did. It proves
that he has a generous disposition, and that he
ought to be cultivated. Yet you must needs snub
him shamefully. And now he has gone back to
Cornwall, and we shall never see him again.'

I devoutly hope we shan't,' said Bab.

But in this hope Barbara was disappointed, as
in that fonder hope of a speedy reply from her lover.
The year waned ; the leafy groves of Camberwell
grew bleak and bare ; the friendly muffin-man loomed
through the mists of afternoon ; the yellow gaslight
flared against a background of brown fog, and Mrs.

Trevornock's parlours put on their cosy winter aspect.
The sofa was wheeled to the fireside ; the round
table drawn nearer the hearth ; the wide French
window shrouded with warm curtains ; and a sense
of homeliness and comfort and love and union grew
stronger with the lengthening of the winter nights,
since darkness and the shutting out of the external
world seemed to draw mother and daughters, and
even the faithful and melodious serving-maid, nearer
together.

Yet there was a discordant note in their music.
Barbara was not herself; Barbara, bravely though
she bore her trouble, was evidently unhappy. No
answer had come to her letter  that frank and generous
letter, in which she had, as it were, flung herself
into her lover's arms, thrown herself almost at
his feet, setting at naught the world and the world's
good word for his sake. There had been plenty of
time for his reply, but he had not answered her.
Barbara accepted his silence as the admission of his
inconstancy. His heart had gone from her. It would
have been useless, painful, perhaps, for him to reply
to her letter. What could he say ? ' My dear, you

are very generous, and I thank you for the assurance
of your love. Unhappily I have fallen in love
with some one else, and am only embarrassed by
your amiable constancy.' No, it was better for him
to leave her foolish letter unanswered, since he could
say nothing which would not be more or less discreditable
to him and humiliating to her.

So while he was the real offender, her shame and
remorse were as profound as if the sin had been hers.
She despised herself for having written that letter.
She ought to have accepted the annulment of her
engagement without a word. He had wished to be
free, and he had told her so. Her place was to have
bowed to his decision. All those fine phrases in
which he had enveloped the one plain fact of his
inconstancy meant nothing, and she ought to have
so understood them.

I was very foolish ; I knew so little of the world,'
she told herself, in deep abasement. * And he seemed
so fond of me ; we were so happy. I thought he
loved me as intensely as I loved him. How could
I tell that his love would last such a short time?
How pale he was that day on the ship, when he

held me to his heart as if he could not part with
me ! His eyes had a despairing look. If that was
not love, true faithful love  God, was it only
seeming ? Can he hold another woman to his heart,
look into other eyes, and in one short year  '

These were Barbara's thoughts in many a solitary
walk up and down the narrow gravel path in the
bare wintry garden. She liked to be alone with her
trouble, and had taken to avoiding Flossie's society.
She had to fight with her great grief, and conquer it,
if she could. She had abandoned all hope of a reply
to her letter. There could be no delay in such a
matter. A letter of that kind must be answered at
once, or not at all. She made up her mind that all
was ended between her and George Leland. If they
were ever to meet again, it would be as strangers.
They would pass each other in the street, perhaps,
without a word, with only one swift glance of horrified
recognition, and then carefully averted eyes.

my love, I have loved you so ! I thought you
so entirely my own !' she said to herself. ' I thought
we were to live and die together, and lie side by side
in the grave. And now it is all over and ended, and

you look back perhaps and wonder how you could
ever have liked me.'

Mrs. Trevornock and Flossie were more than
usually affectionate and considerate in their treatment
of Barbara, but neither dared to intrude upon
her grief. Flossie affected an abnormal gaiety, and
made occasional sprightly allusions to the man in
Cornwall his estates, and his Opera-tickets, and his
evident admiration of Barbara ; but these being received
by her sister with an icy coldness, she was
not'encouraged to enlarge upon the theme. Neither
mother nor daughter breathed Captain Leland's
name. They knew they had done wrong, yet they
hugged themselves in the belief that they had been
guilty of a very small evil in order to bring about a
very large good. Barbara's pallid cheeks and heavy
eyes were an ever-present reproach, but her cheek
might have been as pale and her eye as dull if her
letter had been duly posted ; for who could tell what
trouble the Captain's reply might have brought her ?
And to sanction her marriage with a disgraced man
would have been to doom her to pale cheeks and
careworn looks for the rest of her life. Desperate

ills must have desperate remedies. Mrs. Trevornock
felt that she had done her duty as a mother in concealing
the loss of the letter.

Youth and health are possessions not easily
squandered. Before the winter was half over Barbara
began to recover, physically, from the blow that
had fallen so heavily on heart and mind. She had
not ceased to grieve in silence ; she was not less unhappy
; but the bloom came back to her cheek and
the lustre to her eye. She was more like the old
Barbara in that pre-adamite period of life before the
idea of a partial boarder had entered Mrs. Trevor-neck's
mind. She was able to smile at Flossie's
pertness; she was loving and companionable as of
old with mother and sister.

Peace was restored to the family circle.

A HANDSOME OFFER.

Just at this time, when London days were shortest,
and London fogs thickest, the gaunt Cornishman reappeared
in South-lane. He dropped in one December
day between the lights, when Mrs. Trevornock
and her daughters were sitting by the cosy fire,
chattering gaily in the leisure interval when it was
too dark to work and too early for candles and tea.
He had come up for the Cattle Show, he informed
Mrs. Trevornock when he had shaken hands with
the three ladies  not because he cared about such
things, but only because a neighbour of his, living
within twenty miles or so of Penrith Place, was
coming, and wanted his company.

I'm glad you don't care about looking at poor
ill-used over-fed beasts,' said Flossie. ' You would
have sunk in my estimation if you had. I'm sure
no client of pa's would have such bad taste.'

By the bye, how is Mr. Trevornock ?' inquired

the client. ' I only came to London last night, and
haven't had time to call upon him.'

The mother and daughters glanced at each other
in serio-comic embarrassment. It was nearly two
months since either of the girls had seen her father,
and then Flossie had paid him a solitary visit, Barbara
keeping aloof, lest she should hear her faithless
lover abused.

Our parent was in excellent health when we last
heard of him,' Flossie answered boldly.

Mr. Penrith sat in his corner between the fireplace
and the folding-doors, and said very little.
He did not shine in conversation ; and on this occasion
he flung the responsibility of entertaining him
upon his hostess and her daughters. He could just
see Barbara's clear-cut face in the firelight, and it
was sufficient pleasure for him to sit there and contemplate
her beauty. Flossie watched him from her
place in the shadow behind her sister.

'I suppose Cornwall was looking very wintry
when you left ?' said Mrs. Trevornock.

It was bleak and dreary ; but we rarely have
snow so far west.'

VOL. I. p

How nice !'

Yes, it's a pleasant climate, if you don't mind a
good deal of rain.'

'I adore rain,' cried Flossie, determined to be
civil. ' It's so cool, and clean, and refreshing.'

'Are you near the sea?' inquired Mrs. Trevor-neck,
casting about in her mind for any stray crumb
of conversation to offer a man of vhose surroundings
and character she was painfully ignorant.

Seven or eight miles.'

Too far for a walk, unless one were a very good
walker,' speculated Mrs. Trevornock.

I often walk to the coast.'

Ah, then you are a good walker.'

*My quarries are on the way to the sea. I go
there sometimes on business.'

His quarries ! Flossie and her mother thrilled
at the word. It was the first time he had mentioned
the quarries in their hearing.

'Do you attend to the qu-quarries yourself?'
faltered Mrs. Trevornock, obliged to make her conversation
interrogative, since the man gave her so
little assistance.

Not entirely. My brother Mark does the greater
part of the work. He is manager  pays the men,
keeps the books, writes letters  an excellent man of
business.'

'What a comfort for you!' ejaculated Mrs. Tree
gushingly.

*Yes; I don't know what I should do without
Mark. I hate pens and ink. I like walking or
riding about my land and looking after that : but
the superintendence of the quarries would be a
nuisance to me ; and I shouldn't like to trust a
stranger.'

*And your sister?' pursued Mrs. Trevornock,
feeling that the conversation was getting interesting,
and that her guest was warming a little. ' What a
comfort she must be to you !'

She keeps my house,' replied Mr. Penrith
curtly; and the talk came to a dead stop.

Mrs. Trevornock had been carrying on a little
argument with herself all the time she talked. She
wanted her tea desperately, so no doubt did those
dear girls. And Mr. Penrith evidently was in no
hurry to go. She ought to offer him some kind of

refreshment, and she had nothing hut tea to offer.
She must face the situation boldly.

We are just going to have tea,' she began
modestly, ' and T should like to ask you to join us ;
but'of course you dine late, and  '

'I dine at any time I find convenient, when I
am away, from home,* answered Penrith. ' I had
some cold beef at Baker-street in the middle of the
day. I shall be very glad to take tea with you.'

Lowly-minded creature ! The owner of lands
and quarries to confess so simply to a snack of cold
beef and bread, washed down perhaps by unpretending
beer !

That's very friendly of you,' said Mrs. Trevor-neck
; and then she rang the bell with a grand air,
intending to slip out of the room before the tray was
brought, to see that everything was in perfect order.

Have you been to the theatres lately ?' asked
Mr. Penrith, when he was alone with the two girls.

No,' sighed Flossie. ' We have not many friends
like you, with the entree to all the theatres and the
disposition to give us pleasure.'

Then I hope you will allow me to send you

some tickets before I leave town. Is there anything
you particularly wish to see ?'

Flossie named three plays, to see any one of
which would be rapture.

And you, Miss Trevornock ?' asked the Cornishman,
determined to extort speech of some kind from
this beautiful statue. ' Is there nothing you wish to
see at all the London theatres ?'

No,' answered Barbara, ' I don't care about
theatres.'

Now you know, Barbara, that is not true,' cried
Flossie ; ' only a year or so ago you doted on plays.
You were never happier than when you were at a
play or an opera.'

Times change and people too,' said Bab ; ' I am
quite different now,'

So early tired of the pleasures of life !' exclaimed
]mr. Penrith ; ' that is almost a miracle.'

Some people tire sooner than others, perhaps,'
said Bab gravely. ' I have had enough pleasure of
that kind.'

Well, I shall send the tickets, and I hope your
mother and sister will tempt you to go with them.'

Mrs. Trevornock returned, and the betray was
brought in immediately afterwards  the most delicate
bread-and-butter, a shining teapot, the best cups and
saucers  a general air of elegance which Flossie felt
was too good for that rough-looking Cornishman,
however rich and great he might be in his own
county.

They sat round the fire and drank strong tea,
and seemed as friendly a party as in the vanished
days, when George Leland had sat where Mr. Pen-ruth
was sitting now. But 0, how different their
talk was ! In those old days everybody had had too
much to say. There had been laughter and frolic ;
grave talk of that distant Indian world which the
soldier knew so well ; talk of men and of books, of
art, poetry, music; mere nonsense talk also, the
overflow of happy minds unburdened by a care. Tonight
it was up-hill work to maintain any kind of
conversation. Barbara would take no trouble;
Flossie's pert chatter sounded out of tune; the
Cornishman lapsed into silence after every little
spurt of communicativeness.

*I don't think I could endure life with such a

dull man,' mused Flossie, ' if he were ever so inch :
unless I could be the kind of wife one reads about in
fashionable novels, who only meets her husband, by
accident, once or twice a week on the stairs.'

Mr. Penrith stayed till nine o'clock, and seemed
unconscious that time hung heavily in his society.
He said what he wanted to say, and no more. He
looked at Barbara ; he smiled grimly once or twice
at Flossie's impertinences ; he was civil, and even
courteous, in his wooden way, to Mrs. Trevornock.
For the rest, he seemed a creature hewn clumsily out
of a block of wood a being without feelings or sentiments,
or the capacity for intense passion, whether
of grief or anger, or love or hate.

I shall be stopping in town for a week or so,' he
said, when he had risen to take leave, ' and I shall
call again some afternoon, if you won't consider mean
intruder.'

An intruder? As if the owner of lands and
quarries could intrude ! Mrs. Trevornock declared
that she and her daughters would be flattered and
delighted by Mr. Penrith's visits.

mother, how dull he is !' cried Flossie, with

a desperate yawn, when Amelia had opened the hall-door
for the visitor, and the winter night had swallowed
him up. ' What a weary evening it has been !'
Nonsense, Flossie ; he has lived a great deal in
the country, and he is of a retiring disposition. But
I am sure he is clever ; I can see it in his forehead.'


There's a good deal of business above his eyebrows
; but he is the dullest man I ever met. Certainly
Captain Leland is the only other man I know
much about, and I must say that any comparison
between the two is vastly to Mr. Penrith's disadvantage.'


Mrs. Trevornock rewarded her daughter with an
awful frown. Bab had gone into the next room, and
was playing to herself softly in the glimmer of light
that came through the half open folding-door, playing
one of Mendelssohn's saddest melodies.

'Mother,' whispered Flossie, 'I'm afraid it will
never do. Bab can't bear him. Don't ask her to
marry him.'

Why, Flossie, what nonsense you talk ! How
do we know he is going to make her an offer ? Do

you think I would urge a child of mine to marry
against her own inclination ? But I should like to
see Barbara in a grand position. I think she was
born for it. She would adorn any circle ; she would
be a noble mistress for a fine old house.'

Like that house on the Cornish moors. If she
could only forget her Captain !'

She has seemed happier lately ; quite her old
self.'

On the surface. But I'm afraid she has not left
off regretting him.'

This conversation was carried on in whispers
while that pathetic strain of Mendelssohn's rose and
fell in the next room. Poor Mrs. Trevornock went
to bed sorely distressed in mind. She loved her
daughter with a passionate love, capable of self-sacrifice
in the highest degree. Her ambitious views did
not include one selfish desire. That a rich marriage
for Barbara would insure prosperity for herself, peace
and security for her declining years, hardly entered
into her thoughts. She wanted Barbara to have
wealth and honour ; she wanted Barbara's beauty to
win some great prize in the lottery of fortune.

Barbara.

Bravely as she had confronted the difficulties of life
on a very small income, she had a thorough appreciation
of the difference between wealth and poverty.
She knew how hard it was to be harassed by sordid
cares, to have to contrive and study ways and means
unceasingly in order to eke out a scanty pittance and
keep clear of debt. It would be bliss to her to see
her favourite child lifted at once and for ever from
this dismal swamp of poverty.

And how much she could do for poor little
Flossie!' thought the mother; 'there would be a
home for her always in Cornwall, if Barbara were
married to Mr. Penrith. And, by and by, when I
am dead and gone  '

Reflections of this kind occupied most of Mrs.
Trevornock's waking hours after that visit of Vyvyan
Penrith's. It was very clear to her that he had
fallen desperately in love with Barbara, wooden as he
was. Tickets for the most fashionable theatres
rained upon the little family after that December
evening. Barbara at first refused to go, and only
yielded at sight of her mother's tears.

'If you set your face against all pleasure and

amusement you will make me absolutely miserable,'
remonstrated Mrs. TreYornock.

Then I will go, mother. I will do nothing to
make you miserable.'

So Barbara went, and enjoyed the play, escaping
for a little while from the sad world of her own
thoughts.

Why should I not try to be happy?' she argued
with herself. ' He is happy, no doubt, with his last
new love. Let me imitate him, and learn to forget.'

Mr. Penrith was always in attendance. He sat
at the back of the box, and pretended to be interested
in the play, of which he only obtained a diagonal and
strictly limited view ; he conducted the ladies to a
cab, for which he made a point of paying, and he was
so liberal in his payment as to secure unbounded
civility from the cabman.

It is very nice to be paid for in this way,' said
Flossie ; * but I think Mr. Penrith shows a little too
plainly that he knows we are poor.'

*How can he help knowing that,' exclaimed
Barbara bitterly, ' when he knows our father ?'

*He may be deceived as to papa's character,

and believe him a most estimable man,' retorted
Flossie.

Mr. Penrith stayed in London nearly a month,
came often to South-lane, and saw Mrs. Trevornock
and her daughters several times at the theatre. He
became as intimate with them as it was in his
nature to be with any one ; and they grew used Jo
him and his ungainly bearing, his wooden ways.
He seemed to them dull and harmless  a man not
easily pleased or easily offended, but once impressed,
impressed deeply. His admiration of Barbara was
as respectful as it was undisguised. He talked of
going back to the west daily, yet did not go. He
had apparently very little reason for remaining in
London, except the pleasure he derived from his
visits to South-lane.

On the day before that which he had finally
fixed for his return, Barbara received a brief note
from her father ; an event of such rare occurrence
as to cause much wonderment in the small family
circle.

*Dear Barbara,  Come and see me tomorrow

at twelve, without your sister. I want to talk to
you about a very serious matter.  Yours affectionately,
T. T.'

'Without your sister I' exclaimed Flossie. 'What
a base return for my attentions ! Life must have
taken an extraordinary turn for papa to want to see
either of us. His inclination generally points the
other way.'

Mrs. Trevornock and Flossie both looked at Barbara.
Barbara sat with the open letter in her hand,
her eyelids lowered, and a resolute expression about
her set lips. Flossie and her mother glanced at each
other significantly. They had a shrewd suspicion as
to the subject of the interview which Mr. Trevor-neck
asked for.

'You'll go, dear, of course,' said Mrs. Trevor-neck.


I suppose I must, mother.'

Yes, dear. I wish Flossie were not excluded.
But she can go as far as Gray's Inn with you, and
wait for you at a pastrycook's.'

I hate waiting at a pastry cook's !' ejaculated

Flossie. ' It is the most abominable thing in life.
One feels oneself an encumbrance directly one has
eaten one's bun. And after one has read the playbills
there is nothing to divert one's mind.'

'Barbara cannot go to town alone,' said Mrs.
Trevornock.

No. I suppose I must play propriety. Tomorrow
in papa's letter means to-day. We have
only time to dress and start.'

At eleven the two girls were on their way to
Gray's Inn. It was a cold bright morning, and
they decided upon walking the whole way, always
glad to husband the mother's scanty store. It was
like the widow's cruse of oil or the manna in the
desert, just enough and nothing over. The slender
purse had never failed yet, but had often been on
the very edge of emptiness.

The sisters had never talked together so freely
as of old since the sudden end of Barbara's engagement.
They seldom spoke of Mr. Penrith, save
when Flossie broke out into enthusiastic praise]]of
his liberality, and then Barbara was resolutely
silent.

I wonder what papa can have to say to you ?'
Flossie speculated, as they crossed Blackfriars
Bridge  that old bridge, which was narrow and
crowded and dirty, and which led by a dingy 
to a hilly Lowborn.

Ah, what, indeed !' said Barbara carelessly.
You don't seem a bit interested.'

Why should I be interested ? He can tell me
nothing that will make me happy.'

Perhaps some one has left you a fortune.'

That is as probable as the play we saw last
night.'

Ah, if things would only happen as pleasantly
in real life as they do in the fifth act of a play !'
sighed Flossie.

Barbara left her companion at a dismal little
confectioner's in Lowborn, a shop where Flossie
might sit for half an hour with very little fear of
being seen by many people. The girls had refreshed
themselves with buns there often on their way
from their father's office, and the woman who kept
the shop was well disposed towards them.

Mr. Maulford opened the door, just as if he had

been on the watch for Barbara. He devoured her
face with his great red-brown eyes, eager to read the
secrets of her soul.

'You are quite a stranger, Miss Trevornock,' he
said, 'and I am sorry to see you not looking so
well as when we last met.'

Is my father at home ?'

Yes ; and expecting you. Mr. Penrith was
here yesterday afternoon.'

He opened the door, and a voice from within
called ' Barbara.'

For the first time since Bab could remember,
her father rose to welcome her, and kissed her with
some semblance of affection, instead of allowing
himself to be kissed with his usual business-like air.

Sit down, my dear. How pale you are looking
! Aren't you well ?'

Pretty well, thank you, papa.'

Mother well ?'

Very well.'

Any news from the west ?'

Ma had a letter from aunt Sophia the week
before last.'

Humph ! She was well, I suppose ?'

She had just had one of her nervous attacks.'

Nervous fiddlestick ! If she had to work for

her living as I do we should hear nothing of nervous

attacks. Stuff and nonsense !'

Barbara contemplated her casein muff. Mr.

Trevornock trimmed his favourite nail.

sewell, my dear, I've some good news for you.'

I'm very glad of that.'

I hear from Flora that everything is off between
you and Captain What's-his-uame.'

Captain Leland. Yes; all is ended between us.'
Very wise on both sides. It would have been
a wretched marriage for you. I told you so at the
time. I have received an offer for your hand, Barbara,
from a gentleman of old family and of great
wealth. Of course you know whom I mean. Mr.
Penrith has behaved in the most straightforward
manner. He came to me yesterday afternoon, told
me in his plain-sailing way that he had fallen desperately
in love with you ; had admired and loved
you from the first day he saw you, by accident, in
this office  a lucky accident for you, by Jove ! He

VOL. I. Q

asked my permission to make you an offer ; and he
told me what he would do for you if jour answer
were favourable.'

How do you mean, papa ?'

I mean that he is prepared to make a splendid
settlement. He knows what a hard fight I have
had  that my practice is hardly good enough to
enable me to keep an office over my head and a
decent coat on my back  and that your mother is
chiefly dependent on my relations for her income.
He offers to settle an estate worth six hundred a
year upon you. You could afford to give your
mother three, and yet be rich enough to gratify
every fancy and extravagance a young woman need
indulge in. Six hundred a year ! I have never
been able to earn as much by my profession, toil as
I might. And you would have six hundred a year
pin-money  money you could spend how you pleased
and on whom you pleased. I hope you consider
that a generous offer.'

'I do, papa; a very generous offer. Six hundred
a year as the price of a penniless girl. It is
a splendid offer.'

'I should think so. Do you know the capital
required to produce six hundred a year, even at five
per cent ?  and this would be derived from land,
which produces less than three.'

Without any elaborate calculation I should say
twelve thousand pounds,' answered Barbara coldly.
*I had no idea that anybody would ever think me
worth twelve thousand pounds.'

But that is not all. I have no doubt I could
induce him to make a settlement giving you the
greater part of his estate after his death, supposing
he died childless ; if you had children, of course
your eldest son would inherit the bulk of the property.'


Don't enter into details, papa. I am quite
ready to acknowledge Mr. Penrith's generosity;
but as I cannot accept his offer it is not worth while
talking any more about it.'

You cannot accept !' cried Mr. Trevornock
angrily. ' Are you a fool or a madwoman ? Do
you understand what you are refusing ?'

Perfectly.'

Great God !' cried the solicitor, bursting with

indignation, * was there ever such folly ! Here is a
penniless girl, a girl dependent on the benevolence
of aunts and uncles who may die tomorrow ; a girl
who has nothing to look forward to but the workhouse
; and she coolly refuses one of the richest
men in Cornwall  a man who worships the ground
she walks on, and is ready to make the most liberal

provision for her future ! I  I  I am ' here Mr.

Trevornock descended to unpolite language  ' if I
ever heard of such outrageous stupidity !'

I daresay I am very stupid,' Barbara answered
coldly, ' and that if I were wise I should marry a
man I do not love, and perjure myself at God's
altar.'

'Nobody asks you to love him. All you have
to do is to marry him, and do your duty by him asa
virtuous wife ; and I should think that ought to
come easy to any well-brought-up young woman.'

It would not come easy to me ; and I will not
make my life a lie for all the good that wealth could
bring me and mine.'

'A nice daughter!' ejaculated Mr. Trevornock ;
a piece of pampered selfishness ! Your mother

may work her fingers to the hone  she and your
sister may starve or beg in the streets  for all you
care.'

I care more than you do, at the worst, father,'
said Barbara, confronting him with steady eyes.
If they have to starve or beg, I shall starve or beg
with them.'

You might make them happy and comfortable
for life, you  consummate minx!' cried the outraged
parent, choking for want of words forcible
enough to express his anger. ' Don't let you or
your sister come to me any more for money, mind
that ! Don't let me hear any of your cursed whining
about water-rates or new bonnets. If you come
plaguing me any more I'll pitch you both out of
window !'

Very well, papa. Henceforward we will try to
exist without the few pounds your generosity has
bestowed upon us.'

As for your impertinent sister,' cried the solicitor,
lashing himself into a fury, ' don't let her
show her face here. The sight of her makes me
sick.'

She shall not trouble you.'

If I hear that you are all in the workhouse I
shan't care a .'

Good-bye, father,' said Barbara on the threshold.
Mr. Maulford darted from his lurking place to

open the outer door for her, and to make a second
perusal of her countenance. There were no tears
in the proud eyes. The face was marble white, and
calm as marble.

You look faint,' said the articled clerk, lingering
with his hand upon the latch ; ' let me get you
a little water.'

No, thank you ; I am quite well. Open the
door, please.'

Mr. Maulford reluctantly obeyed, looking at
Barbara with a familiar compassionateness which
made her detest him a little more than usual.

Half-way down the stairs she met Mr. Penrith
coming up. He took both her hands; he looked
at her inquiringly, with as much anxiety as his
rugged face could express.

You have seen your father,' he said. * Has he
told you ?'

He has told me the honour you have done me.
I  I  am sorry I should have been so unlucky as
to win your regard, for I cannot return it.'

 Barbara, why answer so quickly ?'

'because I am quite sure of myself. If I were
to deliberate for a year I could make no other
answer.'

I will not accept such a hasty decision. I
shall wait till you change your mind.'

That will never happen. Please let go my
hands. I have no doubt that you are, as my father
tells me, all that is good and generous ; but I can
never be more to you than I am to-day.'

'I shall wait,' answered Vyvyan Penrith, looking
at her with a severe earnestness under the shadow
of projecting iron-gray brows ; * the time may come
when you will feel the helplessness of your position,
and be glad of a strong man's love.'

Good-morning,' said Barbara, as he reluctantly
released her hands.

THE LOVE WHICH MAKETH ALL THINGS FOND AND
FAIR.'

It is a hard thing to have those you love against
you, and this was what Barbara had to bear after her
interview with her father. She was obliged to tell
her mother and Flossie the gist of that conversation;
and they knew that she had refused the finest estate
in Cornwall, and an independent income of six hundred
a year. It seemed hard, and almost incomprehensible
to them, that she should have so acted.
Flossie and her mother held long conferences together
on the subject. They were never tired of expatiating
upon Barbara's folly. They loved her not
the less because she was so foolish ; the mother's
heart yearned towards her as of old. But mother
and sister were alike convinced that she was flinging
away a life of happiness for the sake of indulging
vain regrets for a man who had, by his own admission,

proved unworthy of her love. She was sacrificing
the real good of existence to an empty dream.

Six hundred a year !' exclaimed Flossie,  * six
hundred a year for pocket-money ! Twice the income
we have to pay for everything, down to the chimney-sweep
; for even he is too selfish to sweep a chimney
for nothing, though I believe the soot is worth ever
so much to him ! Six hundred a year ! Just consider
the gowns, the bonnets, the parasols she might
buy herself with half the money, and the good she
might do with the other !'

She might help me a little with my rent and
taxes,' said Mrs. Trevornock plaintively, ' though
Heaven knows I should never be influenced in such
a matter by any consideration of my own advantage.
But I should be so proud, so happy, to see her well
placed in life, to see her sitting in her own carriage.'

And we could go and stay with her at Penrith
Place, and wander about the moors. And you would
get so strong, mother, in that fine air.'

Yes, it would be delightful,' said Mrs. Trevor-neck,
who had been pinned to Camberwell for the
last seven years.

People who have only just enough for bread sands
cannot afford such indulgences as change of
ah' and scene. The August emigration of the middle
classes does not affect them ; the long vacation brings
them no holiday.

It would be very nice,' sighed Mrs. Trevornock.
I have not been to the west since you were born.
Your grandmother was kind enough to ask me more
than once before she died ; but I thought as I had
been there with Mr. T. people might make remarks
if I went there without him. And after your grandmother's
death the old house was let to strangers,
and your aunt Sophia bought a place near Exeter.'

And I have never seen the house where my
father was born,' said Flossie. * That seems hard.
Bab was there when she was a little thing in blue
shoes. She has a hazy recollection of a garden full
of roses, and a land of fatness, where she sat upon
people's laps and ate clotted cream and apple-pasty
all day long.'

Yes, it was a dear old house. I doubt if Pen-ruth
Place is as pretty.'

Penrith Place was incessantly present to the

minds of Mrs. Trevornock and her daughter as the
winter wore on. It was what is called an old-fashioned
winter  a winter in which grim Death sharpened
his sickle and mowed down tender infancy and
feeble age; while sturdy youth and middle life
slapped its chest and hectored about the fine seasonable
weather and the glorious frost which  with the
small disadvantage of throwing the bulk of the population
out of work  made the Serpentine a playground
for the idle. Coals went up to starvation price, and
the little household in South-lane felt the pinch of
poverty more keenly than they had done for the last
few years.

Was it that possible six hundred a year, that rejected
offer of Yyvyan Penrith's, which made the
petty trials and straits of poverty so hard for Mrs.
Trevornock this winter ? She saw herself with her
means lessened to the extent of those stray sovereigns
which Flossie had hitherto contrived to extort from
her father. He had said he would give them nothing,
and he was the kind of man to keep his word. There
was a tax-paper on the mantelpiece inviting immediate
attention ; and Mrs. Trevornock knew not

whence the money to meet that demand could come.
She had contrived to keep out of debt, hut to pay her
way from day to day had been her utmost achievement.


The balance between comfort and destitution was
so nicely adjusted, that a feather would turn the
scale.

Barbara knew this, and there were times when
the thought that she might have made the rest of
her mother's life serene and free from care shot like
an arrow through her heart.

Darling,' she cried once, throwing her arms
round the mother's neck, ' how good you have been
to me ! how you have worked and striven to make
me happy ! and when I had it in my power to help
you, I refused ! It was selfish ; it was horrible ! I
hate myself for my ingratitude ; and yet  '

My dearest, I would never ask you to do anything
that was not for your own happiness. And if
you felt that you could not be happy with Mr. Pen-ruth,
you were quite right in saying so. Can you
think I would wish you to sacrifice yourself for my
sake ? I should like to see you prosperous and well

placed in life, and poor Flossie's future more secure ;
but at my age it can matter very little what may
happen to me. I have lived my life. It has not
been a fortunate life, but I have been thrice blest in
my two dear daughters.'

No, mother, don't say that. I have not been a
good daughter ; I am made up of selfishness ; I have
thought only of myself. But 0, if you knew how I
loved him !'

Mrs. Trevornock burst into tears.

My love, I could not have endured your marrying
a disgraced man. That would have broken my
heart.'

Don't speak of him, mother ; it hurts me too
much.'

Very soon after this, the first confidence between
Barbara and her mother since Mr. Penrith's offer,
Mrs. Trevornock fell ill. She had been slightly out
of health all the winter, but had insisted on leading
her usual active life, sweeping and dusting and
scrubbing in holes and corners, in the unceasing endeavour
to maintain that perfection of brightness
and cleanliness which distinguished the little house

in South-lane from all other houses. But now she
broke down altogether, and for the first time within
Flossie's memory that expensive luxury, a doctor,
appeared at 20 South-lane. He came daily in a
smart tilbury with a man in livery, and the two girls
felt that the smartness of his equipage would make
an appreciable difference in his bill. Hitherto their
only medical adviser had been the chemist round the
corner by Addington - square ; a valuable man, who
had a good old-established pharmacopoeia at his fingers'
ends, and never did one any harm, even if he
sometimes failed in doing good.

The proprietor of the tilbury did not disguise the
fact that Mrs. Trevornock was seriously ill. She had
neglected herself for a long time ; she was weak and
low to an alarming degree, and required very careful
nursing.

The two girls listened to him with scared faces,
hanging upon his words piteously, as if he were the
source of good and evil.

'You may be sure we shall be careful, for we
love her so dearly,' faltered Barbara. * Only tell us
exactly what to do.'

There is not much to tell,' said Mr. Asplatt 
doctor 2ar excellence  ' quiet, freedom from worry,
and a generous diet. That is all I can suggest at
present. A little later, when we have brought our
dear mamma round, a change to mild sea air  Mentor
or Bournemouth, for instance  would be eminently
desirable  indeed, I may say absolutely
necessary.'

She must have it,' sighed Barbara, her heart
beating tumultuously. * And about the diet  '

Must be light and nourishing,' replied the
doctor. 'Clear soup, white fish, the breast of a
boiled chicken, sweetbread plainly dressed, asparagus,
or  if you can't get that  a little sea-kale. The
diet should be varied and delicate ; and as for
wine  '

 Wine !' echoed Flossie hopelessly.

Barbara gripped her sister's hand with fingers
cold as death.

"What wine would be best ?' she asked the
doctor.

Two or three glasses of old port would not be
too much in the course of the day; but mind the

wine is thoroughly good and sound  not a heavily-branded
port on any account.'

What is a brandied port ?' wondered Flossie,
stricken with a sense of utter helplessness.

Their adviser encouraged them with a hopeful
word or two, and bade them a cheery good-day. He
went off so blithely in his tilbury that Flossie hated
him as she had rarely hated mortal.

What are we to do ?' she asked her sister, with
pitiful appeal.

We must save our mother. my dearest, my
fondest, I have never loved you half so well as you
ought to be loved !' cried Barbara, in a voice half
suffocated by sobs.

She must not see that you have been crying.'
*No, she must not see,' choking down her tears.

I must go to her at once. She must not know
what the doctor says. Worry and care must be
kept away from her  somehow.'

We've had two summonses about that last tax,'
said Flossie. * If it isn't paid within  '

My father must pay it ; he must and shall give
us money. I shall write to aunt Sophia this afternoon

; she has always been good to us in the hour
of need.'

Yes ; she lectures exceedingly, but she does
help us. Soup, fish, chicken, asparagus, port, and
the tilbury man to be paid afterwards,' said Flossie.
We shall want a fortune.'

'Will you go to Gray's Inn at once, Flossie,
while I nurse mamma and write to aunt Sophia ?'

I would rather walk over burning ploughshares ;
but I'll go. And if Mr. T. talks about the window,
he shall have a bit of my mind. To be married to
such a dear woman as my darling mother, and to
treat her so ! He must have a heart of stone. What
are you going to get for ma's dinner ? The generous
diet ought to begin at once, oughtn't it ?'

Leave that to me, Flossie. You go off to Gray's
Inn, and tell your father that his wife will die unless
she has comforts which we cannot buy without his
help.'

Bab went up to the sick-room, while Flossie ran
to prepare herself for a raid on Gray's Inn. The
girl sat by her mother's bed, and watched her as
she slept the uneasy slumber of sickness. The face

VOL. I. R

SO fresh and bright a few months ago  was pinched
and pale. The markings of age showed as they had
never done before in a countenance which had kept
the bloom of youth long after youth was gone. Yes,
it was care which had made those cruel lines ; a
long struggle with adverse circumstances had hollowed
those cheeks. The woman who had carried
her troubles so bravely had broken down under the
burden at last.

Barbara waited till her mother woke from that
brief slumber, and greeted her waking with loving
words and caresses.

Did the doctor say I was very ill ?' the invalid
asked anxiously.

No, dearest ; but he told us to be careful of you.
As if we would not be careful of our treasure ! I am
going into the Road to get two or three little things.
Shall Amelia come and sit with you, mamma
dear ?'

No, darling, I shall be quite comfortable alone.
But don't be long ; I like to know you are near me.'

I will come back on the wings of love,' answered
3ab gaily ; and then, full of care, she ran to put on

her bonnet and shawl for a momentous expedition inquest
of generous diet.

She looked into the well-worn purse which Mrs.
Trevornock had surrendered when she grew too ill to
conduct the household affairs. It was quite empty.
The money had been dribbling away daily and
hourly ; for illness is a costly calamity. There was
no money coming till after Lady-day, when the rent
would come in from a small farm, which formed the
last remnant of Thomas Trevornock's heritage, and
had happily been settled on his wife. And it was
now only the middle of February. For the next six
weeks Mrs. Trevornock and her daughters would
have to exist upon somebody's charity.

I never felt the sting of beggary before,' thought
Barbara, as she shut the empty purse. ' Poor
mother used to bear the whole weight of the burden.
No wonder it has crushed her. Well, money must
be got to-day, somehow ; and there is only one way.'

She looked at her solitary treasure  the only
ornament she possessed which had any marketable
value  the ring George Leland had given her the
day after their engagement, a massive band of dull

gold with a single diamond in the centre. She had
not even thought of returning this token when their
engagement came silently to an end.

'I will keep it so long as I am true to him she
had said to herself. ' It is not I who break the bond
that bound us. Let him claim it from me, if he
will. No act of mine shall part us. If he were to
come back to me tomorrow repenting his falsehood,
I could not refuse to forgive him. I should take
him to my heart again.'

But now the time had come when the ring must
go out of her possession, for a little while at any
rate. She walked hurriedly to the Camberwell-road,
where there was a silversmith's shop, before whose
glittering window she and Flossie had stood many a
time, admiring the Geneva watches, the silver teapots,
and debating as to which they would buy if
they were suddenly to come into a fortune. The
shop stood at a corner, and there was a mysterious
door in the side street, a door over which there hung
three golden balls.

It was by this dingy doorway that Barbara entered
to-day, for the first time in her life. The place

within was dark, and smelt of dirt, and she shuddered
involuntarily at finding herself elbowed by a
fat Irishwoman, who was negotiating a loan upon
divers articles of hardware, wi-append in a patchwork
counterpane. The showman turned impatiently from
the Irishwoman to ask Barbara what he could do for
her. Pretty faces were not rare in that dimly-lighted
den, but there was a fresh young beauty in
this face which startled the pawnbroker's clerk.

I want to know if you will lend me some money
on a ring,' said Barbara, trying to speak as coolly as
if she were an old hand at this kind of business.

That depends on the value of the ring, and the
amount you want upon it, miss,' the man answered
glibly. ' I'm sure I'd strain a point to oblige you.'

Bab laid the ring upon the counter with a stifled
sigh. The man took it up, and twisted it round
between his dingy finger and thumb, and scrutinised
the diamond, and breathed upon it, and wetted it
with his tongue, and polished it on a coloured handkerchief,
and finally appeared to make up his mind
that it was genuine.

Two pun ten,' he said ; ' will that do for you?'

'Yes,' answered Barbara, delighted to get so
much money.

She held out her hand for the cash; but the
youth had to write a ticket, which operation he performed
in a leisurely manner, ogling his customer
between whiles. Then he brought the money out of
a drawer, and dropped a couple of sovereigns into
her hand, and then slowly doled out nine shillings
and elevenpence-halfpenny.

She was going away without the duplicate ; but
he called her back to receive this, and pressed her
hand tenderly as he gave it her, and was not crushed
by the magnificent frown which darkened her young
face as she snatched away the insulted hand, and
left a place which seemed to her a den of iniquity.
She felt herself contaminated by the whole transaction.
Her lover's sacred ring so bartered ; her own
self-respect so outraged !

But in the next minute she was thinking of the
dear invalid at home, and of the things she had to
buy. She bought a plump young fowl ; she bought
soup-meat and lemons and grapes ; and finally, with
almost as much fear as she had entered the pawnbroker's

shop, she crossed the threshold of a respectable
wine-merchant's office.

A gentlemanly man of middle age left his desk
to attend to her.

I want a bottle of port, if you please, if you don't
mind selling so small a quantity,' she faltered. *It
must be very good, as it is for an invalid. I suppose
you have some very good port at about five
shillings a bottle ?'

We have port as high as thirty shillings a
bottle,' said the wine-merchant, who was a quick
observer, and as well able to read the expression of
the fair young face as he was to see the heavily-laden
basket and the carefully-mended gloves ; ' but I can
give you a bottle of good sound wine for five shillings.'


Thank you. The doctor said it must be old
wine. Would it be very much trouble for you to
send it ?'

 No trouble at all.'

Barbara counted out the five shillings and gave
her address, after which the wine-merchant bowed
her out as politely as if she had given him a splendid

order. But he was assuredly a loser by that five-shilling
bottle of port ; unless it were that the consciousness
of having done a kindly act was worth the
difference between the value of the wine he sent and
the price Barbara paid him for it.

Flossie came home from her quest with five-and-twenty
shillings, extorted with difficulty, and made
bitter by the assurance that they were the last she
would get from a righteously wrathful father.

Was he not sorry to hear of mamma's illness ?'
asked Bab indignantly.

'He said he was sorry; but that, whether we
were well or ill, he could not coin money. If he
were ill himself he would have to go to the workhouse.
Nobody would find money for him. He
was dreadfully bitter about you.'

Because I refused to marry Mr. Penrith ?'

'Yes.'

He is very unjust.'

Mr. Penrith has been in London again,' observed
Flossie, rolling up her gloves with elaborate
care.

'0!'

k

Indeed I believe lie is in London now.'

Barbara answered nothing.

The week that followed was full of anxiety. There
were no signs of rallying in the invalid, though all
that loving care could do to restore health was faithfully
done. The money, discreetly administered by
Barbara, held out till the end of the week, and then
came a welcome five-pound note from aunt Sophia,
who had been away from home when Barbara's
appeal was sent, and had thus seemed slow to answer.


This remittance Barbara felt marked the limit
of her resources. After this there was nothing she
could hope for till a week or two after quarter-day.
A dreary vista of weeks stretched before her, and depression
seized her as she looked forward to them,
wondering how the wants of each day were to be supplied.
And looking beyond this present necessity,
she saw a hopeless future. Her mother's health had
so completely broken down within the last few
months that it was hardly to be hoped she could
ever be again what she had been, ever again be able
to take life lightly, and face poverty with a happy

temper and an indomitable courage. No ; those
days when they had enjoyed themselves on the brink
of a precipice, the easy-going hand-monmouth days,
were over and done with. The dread spectre of sickness
and death would henceforth be always lurking
somewhere near, and happiness would be impossible.
For the first time in her life, Barbara realised the
helplessness of three women whose means, eked outby
casual aids, were hardly enough to suffice for
daily necessities, and left no margin for sickness or
special needs of any kind. For the first time too
she felt what it was to be friendless, or to have only
half a dozen friends, all as poor as, or even poorer
than, herself. She knew too well that in those families
with whom Mrs. Trevornock and her daughters
were wont to exchange occasional tea-drinkings,
although the outward aspect of things seemed fair
and prosperous, there was but a hair's-breadth between
that prosperity and destitution. They were
genteel families, living in small houses, with one
servant, upon incomes which, husbanded and managed
ever so skilfully, left hardly the balance of a
shilling at the end of the year ; but more often a residuum

of debt, to be paid  Heaven knows bow ! 
in a year that would bring no increase of means.

*I never knew that poverty was bard before!'
sighed Barbara, looking hopelessly round the pretty
little room, with its black-and-white pictures, and
gaily-bound books, and stray bits of old china.
We have contrived to be so happy on so little.'

It was the dreariest of February afternoons ; a
drizzling rain had been coming down all day long,
with the pertinacity of small things. The sky was
dun colour; the leafless trees, and even the evergreens,
looked dismal. All the grace and beauty
had gone from South-lane. Barba stood looking
out of the window, sick at heart, yet rooted to the
spot somehow, as if there was a fascination in that
hopeless prospect.

It is like my life,' she said to herself  ' blank
and gray, with not one star shining through it.'

Presently the white gate feU back with scooping
hinges, and a tall figure came stalking up the
gravel-path.

How well Barbara knew the taU gaunt form, the
rough overcoat, and shabby hat! No one but a

pauper or a millionaire would have dared to wear
such a hat or such a coat.

Her first impulse was to run out of the room and
tell the servant to say that no one was at home.
Then came the thought of the sick mother, sleeping
the sleep of weakness up stairs. He might be useful,
perhaps, this rich man. He would send hothouse
grapes and fine old wine, very likely, if he
knew of Mrs. Trevornock's illness.

God help me !' thought Bab despairingly.
Poverty is teaching me to be odiously mean.'

She stayed by the parlour-window, and Amelia
ushered in Mr. Penrith, with as much style as can
be expected of a maid-of-all-work at nine pounds a
year.

*I am sorry to hear of your mother's illness,' he
said, as he took Barbara's cold hand in his, looking
at her closely, as much as to say, ' I wonder if you
have changed your mind since you and I parted.'

*Yes, she is very ill,' sighed Bab. * My sister
and I are full of anxiety.'

She sat down by the dull neglected fire, and
waited for her visitor to talk. She had nothing to

say to him. There was no subject upon which they
could sympathise ; there was no love or liking which
they had in common.

You have good medical advice, I hope ?'

We have the best doctor in the neighbourhood.'


And does he consider the case serious ?'

'Very serious,' answered Barbara, trying to keep
back her tears.

Is there anything I can do '?' asked Mr. Pen-ruth.
' I shall esteem it a privilege if I can be of
any use.'

You are very good. Xo, there is nothing,'
began Barbara ; and then, love conquering pride,
she faltered, ' Yes, there is one thing. Once, when
I was ill, you were kind enough to send me some
fruit and flowers. If you would send my mother a
few grapes I think she would like them. They are
difficult to get here.'

I will send you some of the best Covent Garden
can produce every day. And flowers too ; perhaps
you would like some flowers for the sick-room ?'

A thousand thanks.'

Then came an awkward silence.
*Have you seen your father lately?' asked Mj
Penrith.

No ; I seldom see him. He does not care
about seeing us, and we only go to him when weare
obliged.'

'He is a  curious man,' said Mr. Penrith
slowly, as if it were gradually dawning upon him
that Mr. Trevornock was not perfect in his domestic
relations.

Very curious.'

I fear you must have had a hard life with such
a father.'

I never felt its hardness till my mother broke
down under her burden. She and my sister and I
have been very happy together. The sting of
poverty never touched us.'

But now that your mother is ill yeu beg to
find out the hardship of poverty. Why will you not
exchange poverty for wealth and comfort? You
know that I am prepared to make a settlement that
would enable you to provide comfortably for your
mother and sister for the rest of their lives.'

Yes, you have made a generous offer, and I
have refused it. That seems as if I cared very little
about my mother and sister, does it not ? Yet it is
a hard thing for a woman to  No, I should hate
myself; life would be a burden to me.'

Do you mean that you hate me ?' asked Vyvyan
Penrith, looking at her intently from out of deep-set
eyes, shadowed by shaggy brows.

'I do not love you, and I did once love someone
else very dearly. If I were to accept your offer
it would be for the sake of my mother and sister ; it
would be for the sake of the settlement. Would that
be fair to you ? Would you be willing to marry a
woman on such terms ?'

I would marry you on any terms. I want
you for my wife. I will leave all the rest to
Fate.'

You would marry me knowing that I have given
my heart to another man ?'

Yes ; provided that all is over and done with
between you and that other man. I don't know that
Shave a jealous nature, but I should not like a man

you once loved to cross my path. I should hate
him savagely.'

He is far away, and all is over between us. He
gave me up of his own accord. I suppose he met
some one he liked better than me.'

Barbara, will you marry me ?' asked Yyvyan
Penrith, bending down and taking both her hands
in his. ' Let that man lament his loss far away 
in India. Your father told me all about him. Do
not waste another thought on him. I shall not.
Be my wife. I will trust to time and Fate for the
rest.'

*If I were to marry you it would be for my
mother's sake,' said Barbara, looking at him earnestly,
as if entreating him to decline so bad a bargain.


I do not care for whose sake it may be, if you
will only consent.'

Remember, I do not even pretend to care for
you ; I never shall pretend. I will try to do my
duty ; but it is not in me to do more than that.'

Duty from you will be a rich reward for my
love. You don't know what it is, Barbara, for a man

of my age to fall in Iota. Never since I was five-and-twenty
did a woman's face touch my heart, till I
saw you. I had my boyish fancy, calf-love  a flame
that burnt fiercely for a little while, and then went
out for ever. For more than twenty years I lived
my jog-trot life, and thought no more of women
than if there had been none nearer than the moon.
Then I saw you, and my heart woke from its long
sleep. I am not a poetical kind of man ; I am not
clever at finding the proper words to describe my
feelings ; but I am as true as steel. Be true to me,

and I will be faithful and devoted to you. Let the

t/

past be dead and buried from this hour. I shall
never speak of the man who jilted you. I beg you
never to speak of him to me. Is it a bargain, Barbara
?'

'Yes,' she sighed; and he raised her hands to
his lips and kissed them.

There was a solemnity in the action, as if it were
the sealing of a bond.

He saw that she was depressed and anxious, and
did not stay much longer.

I shall stop in town till your mother is well,' he

VOL. I, S

said, as he took leave, ' and then we can fix the day
for our wedding.'

So soon T she cried. ' no, no ; not this
year!'

Why not ? We have nothing to wait for.'
Yes, we have ; we are almost strangers. Let
us learn to know each other a little before  '

I can never know you better or love you better
than I do already,' he interrupted passionately.
Why should we put off our marriage ? It is only
people who have to study ways and means who need
wait. Good-night  God bless you !'

He took her in his arms and kissed her, having
the right to do so now, as he thought ; and she submitted
as helplessly and as hopelessly as she would
have done had she fallen into the sea, and felt the
arms of some hideous sea-monster winding round her
and strangling her.

She went back to the fireside when her visitor was
gone, and sat by the dying fire, weeping silently over
her own dreary fate.

*I must be a selfish wretch,' she said to herself
accusingly ; ' for even the thought that it will make

my mother's life happy cannot reconcile me to-what
I have done.*

She had not the courage to go near her mother
till late in the evening, but allowed Flossie to perform
all her duties in the sick-room. Then at last,
when Mrs. Trevornock had asked for her several
times, she went quietly in and sat down by the bed,
and took the wasted hand in hers silently.

My darling, what makes you so silent ?' asked
the invalid anxiously. ' You have not been grieving,
I hope ? If it be God's will that I am to be taken,
surely He will care for you and your sister. You
are so friendless that doubtless God will raise up
new friends for you. My dearest, I lie here and
think of you both till my head swims  '

Don't think about us any more, mother dear ;
there is no reason for your anxiety. Only get well 
only get strong and well, dear love ; that is all I ask
of Providence. We are all going to be rich ; and 
and you shall walk in silk attire, and silver have to
spare. I am going to be one of the richest women
in Cornwall, mamma. I am going to be Mrs. Pen-ruth.'


My angel,' exclaimed the mother feebly, but
rapturously, ' I always felt that you were born to ride
in your carriage. my love, my darling, you have
taken away the fear of death ! I shall not leave you
behind to face friendlessness and poverty ; I can die
happy now.'

'No, no, mother, you must not die. It is for
your sake  only for your sake !' sobbed Barbara, on
her knees by the bedside, her face buried in the
coverlet.

BURIED LETTERS, BURIED HOPES.

Flossie was elated exceedingly when she was told
of her sister's engagement ; even the little serving-maid,
Amelia, sang louder than ever for joy; the
sick mother mended slowly but surely from that
hour. Barbara alone was sad. She moved about
slowly, as if leaden weights were tied to her feet ;
her heavy eyes looked straight before her, gazing
with infinite horror into a hateful futurity. In her
mother's presence she contrived to smile, and even
to talk gaily. Love gave her courage, love gave
her strength. She was the old happy Barbara in
the sick-room. Pride forbade that she should bare
her wounds before the volatile Flossie. To her
lover she was uniformly courteous, with a grave
politeness which to most men would have been
disheartening, but which Yyvyan Penrith accepted
placidly, as if he expected nothing more.

There was no need to pay any further visits

to the dusky office round the corner by the silversmith's
shop. The insolent clerk who had squeezed
Barbara's hand saw her no more. Vyvyan gave
her a hundred pounds for immediate necessities,
and she took the money without compunction.
She had sold herself for a price, and she felt no
shame in accepting any portion of that price. The
shame was in the bargain itself  a deeper shame
for her plighted husband than for herself, she
thought. One of the first uses she made of Mr.
Penrith's money was to send Amelia to redeem her
first lover's ring. But the golden circle was never
to be worn by her again. The bond of which it
was the sign had been doubly broken.

She packed the ring in a little box, and enclosed
it with a letter addressed to George Leland's
mother, begging her to restore it to her son at a
convenient opportunity.

*No doubt you know that Captain Leland
cancelled our engagement some months ago,' she
wrote. perhaps I ought to have returned the
ring then ; but I was so foolish as to think that he
might change his mind, and that our engagement

might some day be renewed, and I could not bear
to part with the souvenir of his love. But now I
am going to be married I have no right to keep the
ring any longer, and I shall esteem it a favour if
you will take an early opportunity of sending it
to him, with my sincere wishes for his happiness.'

There was no more than this. It was the most
commonplace of letters, and seemed heartless in its
poverty of phrase. Yet the girl wrote with a
breaking heart and eves drowned in tears.

Hothouse grapes, good old wine, all luxuries
that money can buy were delivered in abundance
at No. 20 South-lane : but it was not the wine or
the invalid turtle, the spring chicken or asparagus,
that brought back the colour to Mrs. Trevornock's
cheek or the strength to her limbs. It was the
knowledge that her children's future was provided
for, it was the delightful idea that her favourite
daughter was going to be a great lady, that restored
her. She had sunk under the weight of petty cares
and harassing trivialities, and now the burden was
lifted off her shoulders altogether. She had no
longer to calculate and provide for the necessities

of the morrow. For the first time since her luckless
marriage she could fold her hands, and take
her rest, and say, with a contented spirit, ' Sufficient
for the day is the evil thereof.' She could
see no evil in the day or the morrow ; she had
no misgivings as to her child's happiness. To
the matter-of-fact temper of middle age the passions
and sorrows of youth seem of small account. No
doubt poor Barbara had been very deeply in love
with Captain Leland; but she must have almost
forgotten him by this time, and would, as in duty
bound, become attached to Mr. Pen ruth, whose
generous devotion was calculated to inspire grateful
affection on the part of its object. 

If I had met with such a man in my youth,
instead of Mr. T., what a happy woman I should
have been !' mused Mrs. Trevornock, forgetting that
at nineteen years of age she had not been so well
acquainted with the value of worldly wealth as she
was now.

A week went by without bringing any response
to Barbara's letter, and then came an answer ina
strange hand on deeply-bordered mourning-paper :

Dear Miss TreTornock,  I am sure you will
be grieved to hear that my dear mother died last
November after a short illness. It has been a terrible
blow for us all. I will send the ring to George
by the next mail. I am sorry your engagement
should have been broken 'off, but it is perhaps
better so for both. My brother has not been fortunate
in India, and he is in no position to marry.
I think he will be surprised to hear that you are
engaged to some one else.  Yours very truly,

Marian Leland.'

He has not been fortunate,' sighed Barbara.
Was it his bad fortune that made him give me
up ? That can hardly be ; for I told him I had
no fear of poverty or even of disgrace  that I
would be true to him in the darkest days of his
life. If he had cared for me he never could have
flung me off. Well, it is all over and done with,
and it is my duty to forget him.'

She did try honestly to put her lover's image
away from her during these early spring days,
which seemed to hurry by with inexorable speed,

drifting her towards her doom. They were days
evermore to be remembered; days now historic.
Such great and terrible scenes were being played
out'? yonder in the Crimea, that Barbara's petty
griefs should have seemed as nothing to the heroic
mind. Yet those small sorrows were large enough
to fill her little world. Never had she been so
miserable, yet never had the days been so short.
She clung to her mother with ever-increasing fondness.
The idea of going away to her husband's
distant home was intolerable to her.

How shall I ever bear my life so far away from
you?' she said, sitting on a low stool beside her
mother's armchair in the sunny southward-fronting
window.

South-lane was putting forth buds and blossoms
under the April sunlight. The almond-trees
were in flower ; the lilac-bushes were covered
with green buds; the garden was yellow with daffodils.
Mrs. Trevornock was well enough to sit
up for an hour or two in her own room, when
the day was at its warmest.

My sweetest, you once thought of putting a

much wider distance between us,' she said, smiHng
down at the sad face nestling against her pillows.
You did not shrink from the idea of going to
India.'

That was to be three years hence ; and I hardly
realised the idea. When the time came it would
have been dreadful to go so far away  even with
him.'

Cornwall is really no distance in these railway
days. A day's journey at most. And we shall
come to stay with you sometimes, I daresay . Mr.
Penrith is so kind that I am sure he will wish
us to visit you.'

Of course, of course, mother. My Hfe will be
bearable only when you are with me.'

Barbara, don't talk like that !' cried the mother,
looking at her anxiously. ' My love, if you have
such a feeling as that  a conviction that you are
going to be unhappy in your married life  the marriage
must be broken off, late as it is, and though it
is such a grand match for you, and has made us all
so happy.'

*No, mother, I am not going to break my engagement

to Mr. Penrith. One broken engagement
in a lifetime is enough, is it not ? But you don't
suppose I am desperately in love with him, do you ?'
'No, dear; but I look forward to your being a
good and dutiful wife, and a very happy woman.'

Yes, mother, I shall be happy ; I am happy, for
you are spared to me. 0, 1 am an ungrateful wretch.
When you were ill I wearied Heaven with my prayers :
and now I am not half grateful enough. I fancy my
fate a hard one.'

My dearest, it is a fate that ninety-nine women
out of a hundred would envy,' interrupted Mrs. Tree


Do you mean that ninety-nine out of a hundred
would marry for money ?'

'Yes, dear, if they had learned the value of
money, as we have, by bitter experience.'

Bitter experience !' echoed Bab. ' Whatever
my future may be, I shall look back at my days in
South-lane as the happiest part of my life.'

Everything was settled. The wedding-day was
fixed for the 20th of May. Mr. Penrith was unaffected
by Flossie's protest against a wedding in May as

proverbially unlucky. He was not given to such
small superstitions, though not entirely free from
that leaven of belief in the uncanny which lies deep
in the Cornish nature, not to be eradicated by time
or civilisation. There was every reason to suppose
that by the 20th of May Mrs. Trevornock would be
well enough to assist at her daughter's marriage,
and, except her illness, there was no reason for
delay. It was all decided with very slight reference
to Barbara. She gave her consent to the arrangements
with a meekness which was rather submission
than content. The when and the how mattered little
to her, since this thing was to be.

Aunt Sophia wrote warmly in approval of the
new engagement, and sent her niece fifty pounds to
buy wedding-gowns. She had considered Barbara's
previous engagement the height of imprudence. She
had disapproved of Captain Leland as a partial
boarder, she had disapproved of him as a lover.
The whole business had, in her estimation, been one
of poor Flora's mistakes. But now she was enthusiastic
in her congratulations.

'1 know all about Mr. Penrith, but by repute

only,' she wrote to her sister-in-law ; ' for his estate
is so very far west, and the Penruths have been
always rather an eccentric family, living very much
by themselves. They are among the best people in
Cornwall, as no doubt you know. One of the Pen-truths
married a Miss Mohun, an heiress. They
have intermarried with the Cares. Barbara ought
to feel vastly proud of making such a marriage. Mr.
Penrith's age may perhaps appear a drawback in
her mind ; but as he has never been married before,
and is so devoted in his attachment to her, that
should make very little difference. I consider hera
most fortunate girl; and I think that even you.
Flora, will allow that in this instance my brother
Thomas has done very well for one of his daughters,
and has some claim to your gratitude.'

Slowly and reluctantly Barbara set about the
purchase of her wedding-clothes. She shrank with
secret horror from any act or part in the preparations
for her marriage. Yet she tried heroically to hide
her misery, lest her mother's love should prevent
the sacrifice.

What a strange girl you are !' exclaimed Flossie.

I'm sure if I had my purse stuffed full of bank-notes
I should be rushing off to the Road to spend them

The Road  otherwise the Walworth-road, or at
farthest Lexington-causeway  bounded Flossie's
horizon in the way of shops. But here Mrs. Trevor-neck,
with her experience of a previous existence in
more fashionable localities, suggested a cab and a
pilgrimage to Regent street and Oxford-street.

That will be delightful !' cried Flossie. ' A cab !
To think that we can afford to hire a cab whenever
we want one ! It is like entering upon a new stage
of existence.'

You really had better make your purchases this
afternoon, Bab,' urged Mrs. Trevornock, who had
now descended to the parlour. 'We are halfway
through April already, and dressmakers are so slow.'

Barbara had no objection to offer; so she and
Flossie went to Oxford street, and selected such
raiment as might be suitable to a Cornish gentleman's
wife living in a lonely old house far oft' the
beaten tracks. Mr. Penrith had counselled her to
buy no finery. He kept no company at Penrith
Place. His nearest neighbour lived seven miles off.

This niiglit have seemed a dreary look-out, even fora
woman who married for love. But it made no
difference to Barbara.

You will let my mother and sister come and
see me sometimes, won't you ?' she asked one day.

Yes, of course. They can come when they like,
but I'm afraid they'll find it dull. Your sister won't
like Cornwall. She's fond of gaiety, theatres, concerts,
and so on.'

Yes, but she is fond of the country too,' urged
Barbara. ' I hope you will let me have my mother
and Flossie to stay with me  often.'

She would have liked to have said ' always,' for
she felt that only under such conditions could her
Cornish life be tolerable.

0, yes, they can come,' responded Penrith, not
too graciously, ' provided they and my sister can hit
it pretty well together.'

Barbara shivered. That sister, of whom she had
heard so little, but who was always spoken of as a
fixture at Penrith Place, a feminine edition of Mr.
Penrith, was a person to be thought of with some
apprehension.

Does your brother live with you ?' she asked
once, wondering whether she was to support existence
with three of the Perth race.

Yes ; Mark has free quarters at Place. He is
fond of horses and dogs, and makes better use of
my stables than I do. But he is not always with
us. He has a couple of rooms at the Quarries, and
we sometimes see nothing of him for a week on end.'

Is he like you '?'

No,' answered Vyvyan, with a grim smile. ' He
is the buck of the family. He favours his mother,
who was a Carew. He was a handsome fellow once,
but he has contrived to get rid of his good looks
somehow, though he is my junior by eleven years.'

Flossie enjoyed herself vastly that April afternoon
at the West-end drapers'. It was she who chose
everything, she who decided what the future Mrs.
Penrith ought or ought not to have. Barbara sat
by and looked on, the picture of indifference. Flossie
thought this arose from an innate want of taste in
her elder sister.

Some people have no taste in dress, no ideas,' she
said to herself; ' that kind of thing is born with one.'

VOL. I. T

She rattled away mercilessly to Barbara in those
blank intervals when the showman had gone to fetch
fresh goods.

You must have one or two dinner-dresses,' she
said; 'however far off your neighbours may live,
they must give dinner-parties, and with plenty of
horses in your stables you won't consider distance.
You ought to have a velvet gown. Shall it be ruby
or black ?'

By all means black.'

But you have chosen two black gowns already ;
surely you are not going to wear perpetual mourning


I like black.'

Well, if your dinner-parties are to be few and
far between, perhaps black velvet would be best. It
would take you ages to wear out a ruby velvet, but
you can wear out black velvet by your own fireside.'

How far-seeing you are, Flossie !'

In choosing a trousseau one has to study contingencies,'
answered Flossie sagely.

It was Mr. Penrith's particular desire there
should be no fuss about the wedding.

'We can't be married too quietly,' he said; 'I
know nobody in London, and I  I suppose you
haven't many friends in the neighbourhood.'

Very few,' answered Mrs. Trevornock.

And then she ran over the names of about ten
people, the people with whom she had been wont to
exchange small hospitalities in the way of tea and
muffins, whom she would like to invite to the breakfast.


Oblige me by not inviting any of them,' said
Mr. Penrith ; ' when a man of my age marries a
pretty girl he does not care to make a spectacle of
himself. Let us be married as quietly as possible.
I suppose Mr. Trevornock will give away his
daughter.'

I suppose so,' faltered Mrs. Trevornock, thinking
that there might be some awkwardness in the
sudden appearance of her husband in a neighbourhood
where she was popularly supposed to be a
widow ; not that she had ever so declared herself.
She had only been silent as to the existence of Mr.
T., save to those more intimate friends who knew
the troublous history of her married life.

If the wedding were strictly private no one need
know of Mr. Trevornock's brief appearance on the
domestic stage. So the good lady renounced the
pleasing idea of a procession of carriages drawn by
snow-white horses, artfully touched up with whiting
for the occasion, and that elegant confectioner's
breakfast which she had planned in honour of her
daughter.

There was to be no breakfast at all, in the festive
sense of the word. Barbara was to be married in her
travelling-dress of dark silk, and she and her husband
were to drive from the church to the railway station,
on their way to Paris, where they were to spend their
honeymoon. Mr. Trevornock had informed Flossie
of his intention of not setting his foot inside No.
20 South-lane. He had no objection to perform a
father's part in giving Barbara away, as she was
making a marriage he highly approved. But beyond
that he would not go. He had not forgotten how
badly he had been treated ; the bad treatment consisting
of his having been relieved of the burden of a
wife and daughters whom he had never been able or
willing to support.

'It isn't a very lively notion of a wedding,' said
Flossie to the bride-elect, ' but as you are going to
be enormously rich it doesn't mach matter. When
I marry I shall insist upon making a feature of my
wedding-day; but I daresay I shall espouse some
wretched pauper, and that we shall have to pinch
afterwards.'

The 20th of May arrived, so soon, so terribly
soon. Barbara had watched the swift days hurry by
with a dim idea that something would happen, something
wild and strange, to prevent that hateful marriage.
She had steeled herself to the issue. She
was resolutely bent upon the sacrifice which was to
make her mother's life secure from adversity. Yet
she had a vague fancy that the sacrifice would be
prevented somehow. The stroke of doom would not
descend. She remembered the story of Iphigenia,
and how the offended goddess relented and provided
a stag for the altar, while the gentle victim was carried
off in a cloud, to regions of everlasting bliss.
George Leland would come back from India, faithful
and fond as in the first days of their love, powerful
to save her. Wealth would drop down from the

skies. Some relative or friend unknown would leave
her mother a fortune.

She dreamt nightly of some strange and sudden
release. She felt the delicious sense of recovered
freedom, and awoke to the grim reality. The days
were slipping by, the days had gone ; this pale-gray
dawn, flushed with rose on its eastward edge, was her
wedding-day. She awoke as early as she had done
on that other fatal morning, when George Leland
was to sail from Southampton. Sleep was impossible.
There are doomed wretches who can slumber
on the eve of their execution, can lie down and take
their rest with that hideous end staring them in the
face. Barbara was not made of such stern stuff.
She started from her pillow at the first glimmer of
dawn, got up, and put on her dressing-gown, and
went over to her little table by the window, to make
an end of her past.

Her desk, a roomy old mahogany desk, was filled
with George Leland's letters. She had kept them
till this final day. Something might happen. So
long as that hope remained, were it ever so faint, she
had kept those dear evidences of a dead and gone

love. To destroy them even now seemed a kind of
sacrilege, almost a murder. She handled the letters
gently, as if they had been living creatures. She
sat waiting for clearer light, that she might read
some of them for the last time. Dear letters, full of
tenderness. Light-hearted happy letters, breathing
hope.

my love, my love, why did you grow weary of
me ?' she cried, in her despair ; ' I know you loved
me once.'

The sun was high before she had read the last
of those fond protestations, which the writer's after-conduct
had so strangely belied. But at last there
was no excuse for lingering over those lines any
longer. She lit her taper, and held one of those
doomed letters over the flame. Only for a moment.
A curious fancy came into her head. She smiled at
her own foolishness. The church-clock chimed the
half hour after six.

There will be time for me to do it,' she said to
herself. ' No one will be getting up till after seven.
I won't burn his letters. I'll bury them.'

She wrapped the packet of flimsy letters in a

sheet of foolscap, sealed it in three or four places,
and wrote upon it, ' G. L.'s letters. May 20th,
1855 ;' then she put the sealed packet into a small
tin box, and with this box in her hand she ran down
to the garden, bare-headed, in her dressing-gown
and slippers.

She went to the end of the garden, to a spot
where lilies of the valley grew abundantly in the
angle of the crumbling old wall, under the shadow of
a barren fig-tree. Here seven years ago she had dug
a grave for a beloved canary that had perished untimely,
a victim to the treachery of a favourite cat.
She remembered the childish tears which had rained
upon that innocent grave. And now in the pride of
her womanhood she came to the same spot to bury
the memorials of a disappointed love.

She fetched a spade from the little summer-house
where the garden-tools were stored in a dark corner,
and dug a deep hole between the lilies and the rugged
old roots of the fig-tree. It was as much as she could
do to find space enough for the grave of her hopes
amidst the bulbs that had spread and multiplied allover
the ground. When she had dug deep enough to

please her fancy, she knelt clown and dropped the
little tin box into its grave, and then filled in the
earth again, and trod it down with her feet.

The lilies will he all growing over the place next
year,' she said to herself; 'but I shall never forget
the spot ; and perhaps some day when I am an old
woman I shall come here and dig up those dear letters
and read them again, wondering at their foolishness.
For it seems to me that elderly people have a
curious knack of forgetting their youth.'

It was a breezy morning, one of those days of delusive
sunshine and east wind common to the treacherous
month of May. Barbara was chilled to the
bone by the time her task was finished. She hurried
back to the house, shivering violently, as the clocks
were striking seven.

I am glad I did not burn them,' she said to herself.
' It would have been as bad as cutting off one
of my own limbs.'

*For goodness gracious' sake where have you
been ?' cried Flossie, sitting up in bed, her twisted
locks bristling with hair-pins, like a new Medusa.

I have been gathering the first lilies of the valley

for my wedding-bouquet,' answered Barbara, with
a hysterical laugh. ' I shall always remember those
lilies on the anniversaries of this day.'

She dressed herself as quietly as if being married
were the commonest event in life, while Flossie
fussed and bustled and protested tearfully that her
hair never had been so difficult to do since she was
born.

It serves me right for putting it in hair-pins,
when it has a natural ripple,' she said. ' It was all
that stupid Amelia's advice. '' Twist it in and out of
an 'air-pin, miss," she said, " like I do." As if she
were a model.'

There was a hurried agitated breakfast in the
garden-parlour  scene of all those cosy tea-drinkings
of days gone by, which never, never, never could be
again. No one ate anything, but cups of tea were
drunk feverishly. Mrs. Trevornock was painfully
agitated, and looked pale and wan in her new gray-silk
gown. She wondered how Mr. T. would behave
to her. It was twelve years since she had seen
him.

'We have always written to each other in a

friendly tone,' she said ; ' but it will be awkward
meeting him.'

Barbara was the quietest of the three. Her
cheeks were faintly flushed, her eyes were brighter
than they had been for some time.

You never looked lovelier, darling,' said her
mother fondly. ' That dark purple suits your complexion
admirably.'

The wedding-gown was as sombre of hue as it
could be without being black. The wedding-bonnet
was in no way distinguished from the bonnets of
every-day life.

Not a scrap of orange - blossom ! ' protested
Flossie. ' It looks unlucky.'

Pinned against the bosom of the bride's dress
there was a single lily of the valley. Her own tremulous
hands had fastened it there, a token of the spot
beneath which her lover's letters lay buried.

The sunny morning had clouded over a little as
they drove in a hired carriage to the church by the
canal. It was as if May had retrograded to March.

Mr. Penrith was waiting for them at the door of
the church, in company with Mr. Trevornock and

Mr. Maulford, at sight of whom Barbara drew back
with a shudder of absolute antipathy.

'What business has he here?' she thought.
Has he come on purpose to remind me of that day
at Southampton ?'

She had an unreasonable dislike to her father's
articled clerk, an unreasonable idea that he was her
enemy.

Flossie turned up her pert little nose at sight of
the intrusive Maulford, but was rather glad there was
an extra man to admire the waviness of her hair and
the perfect fit of her new gown, to say nothing of her
bonnet, which had been the study of the last ten
days.

Mr. T. greeted his wife with a careless * How d'ye
do, Flora ?' and gave her the tips of his fingers to
shake. The settlement had been duly executed.
He felt himself a pattern father. What more could
the most careful parent do for his child than to get
her such a husband as Vyvyan Penrith, or rather
such a settlement as Yyvyan Penrith had made?
The man himself was a secondary consideration.

It was a humdrum wedding. The service was

hurried over by a gray-haired curate, who had grown
elderly while he waited for a living that had been
promised him when he was a lad at school. He had
no idea that he was marrying ' this woman' to so
much money in the person of ' this man.' The bond
was sealed in the shortest possible time, and Barbara
was Mrs. Penrith.

If George Leland were to rush into the church
this instant, rich, triumphant, eager to marry me, it
would be no use,' she thought, remembering her
wild dreams last night. ' All is over.'

CHAPTER I.

PLACE.

A LONELY land, a heathery plateau among the hilltops,
swept by the winds that blow over the Atlantic ;
steeped in salt spray, and made barren by the bitter
breath of the sea ; yet not all barren, for the short
grass is soft and sweet, fairy-like ferns grow in every
crevice of the stony banks, and the warm purple of
blossoming heath relieves the cold gray of the
granite, which breaks through the soil like a flower.
These are the great Gorse Moors which stretch wide
across the land down to Lancet, near Bodmin. Far
off, like couchant lions, appear the dark forms of
the two Cornish hills. Rough Tor and Brown Willy.
One sees them from every side, at every turn, as one
faces westward. Looking back to the east, and to

VOL. II. B

civilisation, the white walls of Dartmoor prison
glimmer faintly in the far distance, on a moorland
waste that looks like a valley when surveyed from
this mightier land.

It seems like a bit of some grand old world
where giants may have lived and flourished. There
is a spaciousness, an airiness, unknown in a pastoral
country hemmed in by hedgerows and dotted with
the dwellings of humanity. Here you may drive
for miles without passing a human habitation. Even
those open stretches of land redeemed from barrenness
to the uses of agriculture have a wild untenanted
look. One sees no labourer at work. Allis
silence and loneliness. No voice save the everlasting
voices of Nature : the hum of the bee among
the heather ; ocean's mighty diapason dwindling to
a murmur in the sunny distance; the cry of the seagull
; the melodious rapture of the lark.

Upon this Cornish moorland, within a day's walk
of the great brown tors, stood the dwelling-place of
the Penruths, the house in which Penruths had
been born into this world, and lived and died, for
the last two hundred and fifteen years. Penruths

had owned the land ever since the days of King
Stephen, and had worn out more than one substantial
mansion in the course of their holding. The
present house had been built in 1650 ; but had all
the characteristics of an older date, for architectural
innovations were slow to travel so far west. The
mansion had been known as New Place for a hundred
years or so, which name had gradually lapsed
into Place, by which brief appellation Mr. Penrith's
house was now called, from Launceston to St. Columb,
or wherever the name of Penrith was known.
The house looked as old as the Tudor s. Its
original splendour, which consisted in a stony solidity
and grandeur of size and outline, had not
been enhanced by modern improvement. The Pen-truths
had altered nothing; for alterations are costly,
and a turn for hoarding had been hereditary in that
ancient and respectable race. The furniture was as
old as the Stuart, save for some handsome additions
of carved black wood, and a brace of Japanese
cabinets, which an adventurous Penrith had brought
home from India. The state-rooms were dark and
gloomy, spacious, but not lofty. The homelier

living-rooms were small and stuffy. A good many
of the windows were made not to open at all, and in
those which were intended to admit air a single lattice
was the only opening. But to counterbalance
such small objections as closeness and gloom there
were richly-moulded ceilings, embossed with the
Penrith arms ; a noble old staircase ; a long narrow
ballroom in the roof, wherein nobody had ever danced
within the memory of man ; and a picture-gallery,
where two lines of portraits, staring at each other
with a perpetual stony stare, told how grim a race
the Penruths had been from a period coeval with the
invention of oil-painting.

The house lay far off the narrow coach-road,
which went undulating across the hills to St. Columb.
There was a lodge by the roadside, which served asa
habitation for Mr. Penrith's solitary gardener;
then came a plantation of oak and Scotch fir ; then
a stretch of pasture, with a carriage-road across it 
pasture which might, if one were ambitiously minded,
be called a park; and then, separated from this
grazing-land by a sunk fence, came the gardens and
shrubberies, which were beautiful exceedingly ; for

here, screened by a belt of fir and tamarisk from the
pitiless salt-sea winds, there bloomed such flowers
as thrive abundantly in this western world  rose
and myrtle, jasmine and magnolia, woodbine and
clematis, fuchsia and hydrangea.

Miss Penrith had a taste for horticulture, and
prided herself in a collection of irreproachable dahlias
; but, even in this feminine hobby, she was no
enthusiast. She was severely matter-of-fact in her
views of this lower world, but had large ideas as to
the world above, where she believed that all things
denied her on earth were to be awarded to her in
liberal measure as the just recompense of her virtues
here below. She looked at life from a spiritual
standpoint, talked of herself and of her fellow-creatures
as ' worms,' and referred continually to the
hereafter where she and the chosen few who took
her for their model were to have everything their
own way. Yet she was not without distinctly human
weaknesses. She had begun life as a beauty,
in the estimation of those few families scattered
wide apart within a radius of twenty miles of wild
open country, who constituted her own particular

world. She had been several times on the brink,
or had fancied herself on the brink, of matrimony ;
but her ventures in this line had not been fortunate.
She had affected long engagements, and on more
than one occasion had exhausted in small attentions
and the monotonous meandering of a rural courtship
that stock of affection which should have sufficed for
married life. One lover had grown tired of his
bonds, and had jilted Miss Penrith of Place to
marry a chubby-checked lassie from Camelot, whose
father was parish doctor. another had taken to
strong drinks, from very weariness of soul, and had
gone altogether to the bad after Miss Penrith' s 
had been bought. The wedding-clothes
were folded and put away in huge camphor chests
and lavender-scented drawers, where Miss Penrith
sometimes gratified herself by a leisurely survey of
those garments, shaking out the silken skirts, refolding
the delicate muslins, sighing over them
gently as she put them away.

Ah, I shall wear my wedding-gown by and by,'
she told herself.

These tender disappointments, though all to be

largely compensated in a better world, had not been
without their effect upon Priscilla Penrith's temper.
She took an equably sour view of life in general,
despised the frivolity of her sex, and had strong
opinions as to the ultimate destiny of every one 
especially every woman  who was not so pious as
herself.

Miss Penrith was now nine-and-thirty years of
age. She had dismissed the last of her lovers with
a fretful sense of disappointment, but with no real
grief; and she had made up her mind to die unmated.
She had essayed various specimens of humanity,
and had found them all wanting. She had
tried the gold, the silver, and the leaden casket, and
had discovered emptiness in all. Her lover of good
old family and independent means, her rising young
doctor, her penniless curate, had all been failures.
Her Pharisaical piety and over-weeping self-esteem
had worn them out one by one ; but she saw in their
defection only the evidence of their own unworthiness.


She had never been really desirous of changing
her condition. As Miss Penrith of Place she possessed

all she cared for. She had inherited a fortune
from her mother, and had grown to womanhood with
a very definite idea of her own importance. She was
fond of money, and, though she did not dislike
spending it upon herself, would have objected to see
it squandered by a husband or frittered away upon
children. In her brother's house she spent hardly
anything, save on dress and on certain small charities
 beneficences which maintained her dignity asa
Lady Bountiful at a very moderate cost. She had
the satisfaction of seeing her funded capital increase
year by year. On the whole she was not sorry to
have escaped the rocks and quicksands of matrimony
; but the emotions and agitations of so many
courtships, all ending dolorously, had left an abiding
sourness in her temper and disposition, together with
a languorous manner, as of one who considered life
hardly worth living.

Miss Penrith received the news of her brother's
marriage with deepest indignation. That Yyvyan
should marry a girl of twenty, whom he had known
only for a few months, and of whose family and surroundings
he gave the very briefest account, and

that he should do this things without asking her
advice about it, was an unpardonable offence. She
and everybody else who knew him had decided that
he was to end his days as a bachelor. His younger
brother, Mark, would doubtless do the same, since
he had passed his thirty sixth birthday without a
thought of matrimony. The estate would go to a
distant cousin on the other side of the county, a man
of inferior status, but whose religious opinions Miss
Penrith knew to be of the exact shade of her own.
She had sounded him some years before upon the
subject of the Gorham controversy', and had found
him orthodox to the core. And in the mean time
Priscilla would hold undisturbed sway at Place, and
everything would go on as it had gone on since her
mother's death, just eighteen years ago.

Thus it was that Miss Penrith's feelings, as she
paced the broad gravel-walk in front of the house on
a sunny July evening, waiting for the coming of
bride and bridegroom, were by no means of an enviable
character.

They were coming in a post-chaise from Launceston,
where the North Cornwall coach was to deposit

them, and they were expected between eight
and nine o'clock. The evening was lovely, and floating
over hill and heather in the soft clear air Miss
Penrith heard the faint sound of distant joy-bells.
They were ringing a merry peal in the old tower of
Treglith Church, far away across the common.

That must be Mark's officiousness,' thought
Priscilla. ' Why joy-bells ? My brother has married
a nobody, and the less fuss there is about his
marriage the better for all of us. There will be talk
enough in the county.'

She walked slowly up and down, pausing every
now and then to look across the wide stretch of
pasture to the furthest curve of the white carriage-road,
round which the post-chaise must appear presently.
She had dressed herself in her handsomest
silk gown, and had decorated herself with jewelry of
a substantial rather than an elegant order  a massive
gold chain, cameo earrings, brooch, and bracelet.
She had none of her brother's carelessness about
costume, and thought it her duty to adorn her handsome
person lest the young wife should crow over
her middle-aged sister-in-law.

'I am not going to be trampled upon,' Miss
Penrith said to herself.

Undoubtedly she had been handsome, and was
handsome still, but her beauty was not of a melting
or even a pleasing kind. Her forehead was high
and narrow, her nose aquiline, her eyes large and
cold and gray, eyes that seemed made to scan the
faults and shortcomings of humanity with a clear
cruel stare. Miss Penrith's mouth was her worst
feature. Cruelty was written on the thin lips,
stretching wide over teeth which were happily white
and regular. Given a savage set of teeth, and this
one feature would have made the lady a Gorgon.
Tall and erect in figure, dignified in her walk, Miss
Penrith was a person to be respected even by those
who least admired her.

The honeymoon had been prolonged far beyond
Mr. Penrith's original intention, for in Paris the
bride had fallen desperately ill of a fever  so ill that
first her life and afterwards her reason had been in
danger ; and when she was well enough to be moved
her husband had taken her on to Switzerland, in the
hope that mountain air would bring back youth and

freshness to the faded face, and strength to the
feeble limbs. He had made light of his wife's illness
in his letters home, and had written with all
the cheerfulness which a bridegroom is expected to
exhibit. If he knew already that his marriage was
a mistake, he had taken care to keep that knowledge
to himself.

Miss Penrith was beginning to tire of Nature
and solitude when a door in the ivy-covered wall at
the end of the gravel-walk opened, and a man came
out of the stable-yard and strolled slowly towards
her. This was Mark, the manager at the slate-quarries,
the youngest of the Penrith family, a gentleman
who took life easily, as it was thought, being
entirely dependent on his brother both for the present
and the future. To him Vyvyan's marriage
must needs be a death-blow, as it reduced his chance
of inheriting the Penrith estate to zero. The estate
was unentailed, and entirely at his brother's disposal.
Even if there were no issue to the marriage,
who could doubt that the fair young wife would be
preferred to the brother ?

A brother counts for nothing,' said Mark, snapping

his fingers contemptuously', as he played with
his dogs in the big stable-yard.

Mark was a passionate lover of horses and dogs,
nay, of animals of all kinds. His love of sport often
got the better of his affection for the brute creation ;
but he loved even the beasts he hunted, and he
always felt a thrill of pain when he saw the hare
winding feebly in her last giddy circle as the yelping
hounds closed round her, or the lame stag making
his last wild rush for the blessed refuge of streamlet
or lake.

He was fond of ferrets and ratting terriers, but
he always felt sorry for the rats. He had once kept
a cub-fox in his bedroom at Place, and had a small
menagerie there now in his rooms among the gables,
much to the disgust of his sister, who asserted her
liking for animals ' in their proper place.'

Yes, Pris ; but your idea of their proper place
is at the bottom of a pond, or nailed flat against the
stable-wall, isn't it, now ?' said Mark.

'I hope I am not a cruel person,' replied Miss
Penrith, with her stately air, * but I cannot imagine
myself making a friend of a weasel.'

All,' retorted Mark, * that's because you don't
know what good company a weasel can be.'

Mark came sauntering along the gravel-walk,
with his face to the rosy western sunlight. He had
a lazy gait and a lazy manner, though he was said
to be a first-rate man of business, and as sharp as a
needle in all commercial transactions. He was
better-looking than his elder brother, to whom he
bore no resemblance. Mark favoured the Cares,
his mother's family. He had blue eyes, dark hair,
and regular features ; but the sloping chin with a
dimple in the middle of it indicated weakness of
character, and the blue eyes had a shifty irresolute
look, and were not inclined to meet the direct gaze
of other people.

It was said that Mark Penrith might have
married well within the last ten years, if it had not
been for a certain entanglement into which he had
slipped unawares early in life, the history whereof
was known to almost everybody in the neighbourhood
better than to his brother and sister.

He had a good salary for his services at the
quarries, and he had what Vyvyan called the run of

his teeth at Place. He had also the run of three
or four horses' teeth, and as many dogs as he liked
to keep in the roomy old stable-yard. He hunted
regularly as long as there was any hunting to he
had, hut not to the neglect of the business at the
quarries, or so he assured his brother. Altogether
his life ought to have been eminently agreeable,
and yet he did not look like a man whose mind is
at ease.

What a worried dissatisfied look you have,
Mark !' his sister said to him on this very evening,
as they walked up and down, waiting for the post-chaise.


*Have I? Well, that's likely enough. I've
been a good deal worried lately.'

What can you have to be anxious about ?'

Plenty of things. Life is made up of worries.
There's that bay mare I bought last Christmas
getting groggy in front. I'm afraid it's navicular.
I gave ninety pounds for her, and she's hardly worth
ninety pence.'

You shouldn't buy so many horses.'

How should I live in this gloomy hole without

horses and dogs? I'm not like Vyvyan ; I've no
money-bags to gloat over. And you see, with all his
pretence of wisdom, he turns out to be a bigger fool
than I am, and goes and marries a girl of twenty.'

Miss Penrith expressed no opinion. She had
a calm contempt for Mark, which prevented her
opening her mind to him on any subject that she
felt deeply. And this marriage of her brother's was
a theme which she could hardly have trusted herself
to discuss with any one yet awhile. She might
be betrayed into language unworthy of a Christian.
If she had spoken at all, she must have spoken
strongly.

The carriage came round a curve in the drive,
a pair of white horses, a blue-jacketed postillion
flogging them along with a show of swiftness. Mark
and Priscilla stood side by side in front of the wide
doorway, waiting the coming of the bride. Vyvyan's
head was thrust out of the window as the carriage
approached. He was looking older and grayer than
when he left Cornwall, Priscilla thought. He opened
the door and jumped out almost as the carriage
drew up.

How do, Pris ? how do, Mark ?' he muttered,
with briefest greeting, turning to help his wife to
alight.

Priscilla stood like a statue, her face a blank.
Curiosity, interest, kindly feeling, there was none
in that stony countenance. Mark looked curious
and eager. He expected a blaze of beauty.

The young wife descended from the carriage with
hesitating steps, leaning on her husband's shoulder.
Mark recoiled in amazement at sight of a pale face
in which there was little beauty save the glory of
large gray eyes shadowed by long dark lashes, and
the exquisite delicacy of the white-rose complexion.

Barbara gave her hand to Miss Penrith, who
took it with as much coolness as was compatible
with taking it at all. Mark grasped the thin little
hand heartily.

'Welcome to Penrith Place,' he said, as he
offered the bride his arm. ' Shall I take you indoors
while Vyvyan sees to the luggage ? You are
looking very tired.'

She has been ill,' said Vyvyan. ' Paris didn't
agree with her, and Switzerland didn't agree with

VOL. II. c

her. The first place was too noisy, the second too
quiet. I hope Cornwall will suit her better.'

It is very grand,' said Barbara, looking faraway
towards the big brown tors, and shivering a
little after her drive through the keen moorland
air, ' and very beautiful ; but 0, how lonely !'

You didn't expect to find it like the ,
I hope,' said her husband.

'No,' she said, sudden tears welling up in her
eyes. ' I'm afraid I shall never like any place as
well as I liked the Camberwell-road.'

That's a queer idea of rustic beauty or town
splendour,' grumbled Vyvyan. ' Take her indoors,
Mark. She's tired after her journey. And you can
show her our rooms, Priscilla. I hope you've
smartened them up a bit.'

You sent me no instructions.'

I didn't think it necessary. Your own instinct
ought to have been enough.'

*I could not presume to anticipate Mrs. Pen-ruth's
taste,' answered Priscilla stiffly.

Barbara looked at her hopelessly, seeing that
here was an enemy where she might have expected

a friend. Well, it would make little difference.
In a fate so joyless one bitter drop could hardly
count.

I thought you'd have made a few improvements,'
said Yyvyan. 'However, perhaps it's better
you let 'em alone. Barbara can please herself.'

You are very kind,' answered his wife. 'I am
sure I shall not want to alter anything.'

Don't be too sure of that. You've no idea how
old-fashioned we are,' said Mark. ' There's hardly
been a stick altered since the Commonwealth.'

They were in the hall by this time  the large
dusky old hall, with its trophies of war and chase,
its dark oak walls and lofty chimney piece. To
Barbara the house looked gloomily splendid. It had
a historical air that thrilled her. She looked round
her with almost as deep an awe as she had felt when
Captain Leland took her to the Tower of London,
and she had stood among the shadows that had
darkened so many doomed lives in the days of old.

The evening dusk made the abiding gloom of the
staircase and corridor a little gloomier than usual, as
Barbara followed Miss Penrith up the shallow bees-waxed

steps to the picture-gallery, out of which the
numerous bedchamber opened. The room into
which the young wife was ushered was long and low,
a room with two broad windows, deeply recessed
and heavily mullions  delicious old windows, round
whose stonework wreathed myrtle and roses, and on
whose cushioned seats it would be delightful to lie
and doze away life on a drowsy summer afternoon.
Without, the lovely evening sky was fading from
rose to gray. Within, all was gloom : a low ceiling
supported by massive beams, ponderous oak furniture
made to last for centuries, a carpet and curtains
of the same faded neutral tint; a tapestried wall,
whereon some forest scene was depicted in sombre
greens and melancholy grays, the figures of huntsmen
and hounds dimly visible against a leafy background
; and an antique four-post bedstead with tall
twisted columns and a richly-carved cornice  all
things which had been splendid and costly in their
day, but which time had faded to grayness and
gloom.

Priscilla stalked before her sister-in-law, with the
air of a jailer conducting his prisoner to the condemned

cell. She had not even tried to smile. She
looked at Barbara with a gaze that did not even
affect kindness.

Thank God, I am no hypocrite !' she said to
herself, rejoicing like the Pharisee of old in her own
virtues.

This has always been Yyvyan's room,' she said,
standing stiff and straight beside the door. * But of
course you can make any changes you like. If you
prefer my room, at the south end of the house, it is
quite at your disposal.'

On no account. Could you suppose I should
wish to inconvenience you ?' protested Barbara. ' I
hope we are going to be good friends. Miss Pen-ruth.'


That will depend upon you,' answered Priscilla.
I am not hasty in my friendships. I have lived
very much alone, and I have built high.'

Barbara stared at her in blank wonder, not in
the least understanding the drift of this last observation.


" He builds too low who builds below the stars," '
quoted Miss Penrith solemnly, from one of the few

poets whom she considered worthy a Christian gentlewoman's
notice. ' I have built the habitation of my
hopes above this sordid sinful world, and worldly
friendships can have but a weak hold upon me.'

0,' faltered Barbara, feeling that this was something
worse than she had anticipated ; and then
Miss Penrith walked out of the room, and shut the
door behind her.

Barbara tottered feebly to the broad window-seat,
and flung herself down by the open lattice, through
which the cool evening air came laden with the
breath of innumerable roses. She had been very
ill  dangerously ill; for many days and nights an
inhabitant of that dim borderland between life and
death, from which the struggling soul comes back
with weary flight to find the common round of
daily life passing cold and strange  a soul newborn,
as it were, into a new world. After her
wedding-day, when all was over, the knot tied,
the vow vowed, the life-long sacrifice consummated,
her fortitude had suddenly given way, the
cord so long stretched to its utmost tension snapped
in a moment, and before the first ten days of her

honeymoon were over she was lying in the strange
room at Maurice's hotel in a high fever, her body
prostrate in that unfamiliar place, her mind back in
the Camberwell garden in the days of her girlhood.

In those long nights of delirium every secret of
that broken heart was revealed to the husband, who
sat by his wife's pillow, watching and listening, half
in sorrow, half in anger. He heard her tender talk
of her first lover  heard her live over again those
halcyon days of perfect love and perfect faith  heard
her cry of despair as those wild eyes, staring at the
dull blankness of the papered wall, saw the Hesper
glide out of harbour over a summer sea.

cruel sea, to take him from me !' she cried.
George, my love, my dearest, how shall I bear my
life till you come back ?'

Yes, in those wild ravings of a distracted brain
the husband heard how his rival had been loved 
how deeply, how innocently  with what treasures of
young hope and affection. He listened, and his soul
was wrung with jealousy : yet he knew that he had
hardly the right to be angry. Had she not told him
honestly of that first love? and he had professed

himself content to take her, knowing that she had
loved another, knowing that she did not love him.

Nothing could surpass the devotion of the grim-looking
English bridegroom, with his gray clothes
and iron-gray hair. He was the admiration of the
hotel-people  proprietor, waiters, and chambermaids,
doctors and sick-nurse. He flung about his money
as if it were water. He was the ideal milord Anglais,
gaunt and ungainly, rich and lavish. His Cornish
friends would hardly have recognised him under such
altered conditions  a Penrith reckless of money ; a
Penrith throwing about sovereigns as if they were so
much scoria, the mere refuse of the mine.

Clever doctors and good nursing had cured the
fever ; but when the fever was gone the patient was
left at the lowest point compatible with the hope of
recovery. There was the fear that she might go into
a decline, the doctors told Mr. Penrith ; so at their
advice he took her off to the shores of Lake Leman,
where she gazed with saddest eyes upon some of the
fairest scenes earth can show, and where her power
to live, or rather to endure life, came slowly back to
her. She was still weak and fragile  a poor, pale.

fainting creature for a man to be proud of, and the
consciousness of this vexed Yyvyan Penrith sorely
on this night of his home-coming.

She sat by the open lattice, looking out at the
distant tors, wondering whether she would ever grow
fond of that wild sweep of moor, those low oaks and
firs, blown all one way by boisterous Atlantic breezes ;
wondering still more whether she would find any one
to be kind to her in that strange home.

Her husband had been good to her with an exceeding
goodness. Yet she feared him and shrank
from him, even in her own thoughts.

mark's mistake.

How would Mark Penrith take his brother's marriage
? That was what people asked each other down
in Camelot, the little town yonder, across the hills,
in the hollow beyond the bridge, where there had
been a great battle fought in the time of King Arthur,
and where the corn grew tall above men's
bones, and the skulls of nameless heroes, and, perchance,
a jewelled crown or two that had not been
found after the fight. To the eye of the traveller
from more populous places, Camelot looked infinitely
dull and empty of human interest ; yet, to the native,
it was the world in little, and its interests were of
the widest.

Mark spent a considerable part of his existence
at Camelot. It was near the quarries  much nearer
than the good old stone mansion on the moor. When
he worked late at his books he found it more convenient
to spend the night at Camelot  where, as
Vyvyan knew, there was a comfortable inn  than to

ride across the razor to Place. The only intimate
friends he had lived at Camelot. He knew people at
Launceston, hut that was comparatively remote.
His chosen companions were certain choice spirits,
who were the life and soul of Camelot. They met
nightly at the King's Arms  they had interests in
common, their own particular style of discourse,
almost a language of their own. They could converse
for a quarter of an hour in nods and shrugs
and half-finished sentences, and innuendoes which
would have been incomprehensible to an outsider.
They were not effusive in their friendship. They
rarely shook hands with each other. Their affection
satisfied itself with a curt nod by way of greeting.
Yet if any one of the little circle had dropped out of
it, there would have been a blank which all would
have felt. There would have been no loud lamenting,
but a deep regret, an empty chair which no
mushroom acquaintance could ever fill.

To be appreciated in Camelot, a man's father
and grandfather must have been born in the town.
Granted this, and it did not much matter what the
grandfather and father had been, or even what the

man was. If they had been scamps, and he resembled
them, society took a lenient view of his
delinquencies, for the sake of ' auld lang syne.' He
belonged to the place; his vices had grown up on
that peculiar soil ; and a vicious native, with generations
of faulty natives behind him, was ever so much
better than an immaculate new-comer.

Mark Penrith was popular at Camelot. Everybody
knew him. The middle-aged people remembered
what he had been as a boy, and the old people
remembered his father and grandfather. He had
never been long away from the town, and was as
much a part of existing things as the clock over the
market-place, or the sign of the King's Arms. This
in itself would have been enough for popularity ; but
Mark had higher claims. He was free-handed with
his money. He rode well, and was a good judge  or
was supposed to be a good judge  of horses and dogs.
He talked like a veterinary surgeon, and kept a hospital
in a back yard not far from Camelot for his
friends' ailing dogs. He played a good game of
billiards, and was great at skittles. Generally he
was considered a highly accomplished person ; and

there was a feeling that he would have made a much
letter squire than the sullen and somewhat churlish
Vyvyan.

It had been taken for granted, as the years went
on, that Vyryan would die a bachelor, and leave
Mark master of everything ; and that in those latter
days would follow a kind of millennium, or blessed
period of peace and plenty, for all Mark's chosen
friends. Mark was his brother's junior by only
eleven years, and this did not leave a wide margin
for the millennium ; but the popular idea was that
Yyvyan would ' go off suddenly one of these fine
days,' and Mark would come in for the property.
The gaunt bony figure of the elder brother was not
suggestive of robust health ; and, again, people think
the thing they wish.

But now Vyvyan had brought home a young
wife, and Mark's chances stood at zero.

It was the evening after Yyvyan's arrival at Place,
a sultry July evening, and there was hardly a breath
stirring in low-lying Camelot. The usual set of
loungers occupied the open space in front of the
King's Arms,  Marston, the attorney ; Didcott, the

surgeon and parish doctor, who had succeeded, as by
prescriptive right, to exactly the same position his
father had held before him, and who was allowed to
cure or kill people, not because he was clever, but
because his name was Didcott ; Joe Nichols, the vet,
whose ancestors were supposed to have been veterinary
from the days when Athelstan drove the fierce
Cornu-Britons across the Tamar, and fixed the boundary
of their land for evermore. With these three
gentlemen, half within his doorway and half without,
stood William Lanherne, the landlord of the
inn, and a person of considerable importance in the
town, representing the conservative spirit in its most
stubborn development. His had been the loudest
voice in that clamour which kept the railway remote
from sacred Camelot. It was he who opposed the
building of a chapel of ease for those feebler townsfolk
who did not care to walk three-quarters of a mile
to their parish church. It was he who objected to gas
in the street-lamps, and who ridiculed all sanitary
improvements in the workhouse on the hill yonder,
arguing that the paupers had got on well enough in
his father's time without such new-fangled trumpery.

Take my word for it, he's known all about it for
the last six months,' said Lanherne, continuing a
conversation about Mark Penrith, which had been
meandering slowly through a desert of commonplace,
with intervals of tobacco and silence. * There's been
something on his mind for a long time, and I daresay
it's been the notion of his brother's getting married
and cheating him out of the estate.'

Don't you think it might be something else ?'
asked Joe Nichols, the veterinary surgeon, who never
agreed with anybody. ' Don't you think she's on his
mind ?' he added significantly, with a knowing jerk
of his head ' up street.'

*Not a bit of it,' said Lanherne; 'that's an old
business.'

But the Squire will find out all about it some
day, and then there'll be a rumpus.'

I don't see why the Squire should cut up rough,'
said Marston. ' It's no business of his. If Mark
had married her it would have been a different thing.
He'd have got himself cut off with an angry shilling.'

'Ah,' sighed the landlord, 'it 'ud have been a
bad business if he'd married her. She was an artful

one, she was, and was capable of bringing him to it if
she'd set her mind on it. But I suppose she didn't.'

She was the best barmaid you ever had, William,'
said Nichols. ' There's not been half as much
life about your place since you lost her.'

She was a sprightly little maid enough,' grumbled
Lanherne, ' but a devil of a temper. I don't
envy Mark his bargain.'

He sticks to her, though, don't he ?' mused the
lawyer. ' It's close upon ten years now. Strange
that the Squire has never found it out.'

What a blessed innocent you are, Marston !
The Squire knows as much as the wisest of us, and
he knows it isn't his place to interfere. He's got a
brother who can manage the quarries, and that's all
he cares about. And now that he has a young wife
he'll care less. Mark has made his bed, and he'll
have to lie upon it. She'll never let go of him.'

There was a general shaking of heads, and a
significant twitching of eyebrows, and then another
lapse into friendly silence. The sun was going down
behind the edge of that low hill, whereon stood about
the only building that Camelot had any right to be

proud of, a comfortable-looking Union. By and by
the stars would peep out, first one by one, and then
in a host beyond all power of reckoning, through the
translucent evening gray ; and the chosen spirits of
Camelot would go indoors and play a game of billiards,
making an elaborate study of angles, and putting
their bodies into every degree of crookedness,
with infinite solemnity, oppressed by the vivid recollection
of every game that had been played on the
same rusty green cloth for the last six weeks.

As the rosy light grew wan behind the green
crest of garden and paddock, Mark Penrith rode
slowly down the narrow street on Pepper and Salt,
his last equestrian treasure, called for brevity Pepper.
He flung the bridle on this iron-gray animal's neck,
and got ofi" before the inn-door ; whereupon Pepper,
who divided his life pretty equally between the big
rambling stables at Place and the old rat-haunted
coaching-stable at the King's Arms, walked off of his
own accord to meet the ostler, knowing that his day's
work was done.

That gray of yours looks uncommonly well,'
said Joe Nichols.

TOL. ir. D

There isn't a better horse in Cornwall ; his legs
are as fine as a racer's.'

He's cap-hocked,' said the vet. ' It isn't much,
I know ; but it would take off his value if you wanted
to sell him.'

I don't want to sell him,' grumbled Mark ; * and
if I did I shouldn't come to you for his character.'

Come, I say now, Mark, I've put you up to some
good things in my time.'

Yes ; and let me in for a good many bad ones.'

You're in a precious grumpy humour to-night,
Mark,' said Marston. * I suppose it's the pretty
young wife upsets your digestion.'

No, she doesn't, as it happens. I bear no
malice against her, poor thing. She looks as if she
hadn't six months' life in her ; and if she was ever
so strong I should think that old house would bethe
death of her in a year. I've been poring over
accounts all day, and that's enough to make any fellow
savage.'

Trade thriving, I suppose,' suggested Joe Nichols,
by way of saying something.

Trade going to the dogs. The building trade

was never so stagnant, and when there's no building
nobody wants slates. We shall have to shut up our
quarries before we're many years older.'

'Your brother won't like that.'

Of course not. But I didn't come here to talk
of the quarries. Who's for a game of billiards ? You
and Didcott owe Marston and me our revenge for
last night, Nichols.'

The two doctors, human and equine, were ready
to give their adversaries every opportunity ; so they
all four repaired to the billiard-room, a low-ceiling
apartment which had been used for eating and drinking
in the prosperous old coaching-days, and never
had got rid of that concentrated essence of beef and
cabbage which is apt to hang about public dining-rooms.
This perfume of the past, mingled with the
odour of stale tobacco, was an uncomfortable change
from the cool summer night ; but custom had made
the tainted air of that stuffy billiard-room sweet and
pleasant in the nostrils of Camelot society. There
was a solemn chalking of cues and a nice study of
angles before each player adventured on a stroke,
and though the game lasted an hour and a half, there

was very little time for conversation during its progress.
But there was ample leisure for the consumption
of brandy-and-water and bottled cider.
Mark Penrith drank brandy-and-water, and drank
more brandy and less water than Mr. Didcott, the
surgeon, would have approved in his professional
character ; although in his quality of bosom friend
and boon companion he offered no objection. When
the lamplight room was getting suffocatingly warm, and
the stars were looking calmly down at Camelot from
the depths of a dark-purple heaven, as if they had
never seen anything better, Mark finished the pint
of brandy which he had been sharing with his friend
the lawyer, who drank modestly and paid nothing,
and bade his companions a brief good-night. Camelot
men never wasted time or words on ceremony.

* Ta-ta !* said Mark ; and walked straight out of
the billiard-room and up the hill towards the Union.

This noble building stood at the junction of two
roads. Mark took the one which did not lead towards
Penrith Place, and walked along slowly,
swinging his hunting-crop and looking at the ground.

It was a good old country lane between tall hedgerows.

The landscape round Camelot was pastoral
and fairly cultivated, altogether different from the
wild sweep of moorland at the base of the two great
tors. Camelot was sunk in a cultivated valley, and
all around were cornfields and green pastures, not so
rich or so lovely as those of the sister-county, but
fair to look upon after their kind.

To Mark every inch of ground between Penrith
and Camelot was as familiar as St. James's-street to
a club lounger. The scenes of his childhood and
youth had no particular charm for him ; but he
accepted them as a portion of his life, almost as a
part of himself, and he could hardly have endured
existence away from them.

To-night he was far from happy in his mind, and
Nature, to which he was equably indifferent at all
times, exercised no soothing influence on his perturbed
spirits. He cut at the tender young hedgerow
ferns, the tall red foxgloves, savagely with his
heavy leather hunting-thong as he walked by the
tangled green banks, where a thousand living things
were startled out of their slumbers by his violence.

About half a mile from the Union he came to a

cottage standing in a good-sized garden, such a cottage
as a farm-bailiff might have occupied  a substantial
square stone building, with a heavy slate
roof, the slates cut in clumsy slabs like paving-stones.
Beautified by a luxuriant growth of fuchsia and
myrtle, rose and woodbine, the cottage was not a
bad place in the sunshine. To-night there was nothing
to be seen but the shadowy porch, five blank
windows, and one lower casement dimly lighted.

Mark walked up the narrow garden-path, between
tall sunflowers and hollyhocks, and opened the door
with the air of a master. There was a door on each
side of the narrow passage. He went into the room
where he had seen the light.

Late as usual, and boozing at the King's Arms
as usual, no doubt,' said the inmate of the room', byway
of welcome.

It was not an agreeable greeting ; but Mr. Pen-ruth
seemed accustomed to the kind of thing. He
threw himself down on the old-fashioned sofa, covered
with the gaudiest chintz that money could buy, and
began to fling about the hard little bolsters and knitted
antimacassars with which the sofa was provided.

You needn't tumble the things like that. Goodness
knows I slave hard enough to keep the place nice,'
complained the voice that had just welcomed him.

It was not a whining voice  it was sharp and
vinegary rather than doleful; and it belonged to a
pretty woman, a woman with bright black eyes  a
thought too bright for ideal beauty  sharply-cut nose
and chin, glossy dark hair brushed back from a
square resolute brow, a buxom figure, inclining a
little to the dumpling order, a neat foot, a well-shaped
hand. A pretty woman undoubtedly, and
the kind of woman who is tremendously aware of her
good looks, and believes in the divine right of beauty.

Put her side by side with Barbara, and a poet ora
painter would say that the two women could hardly
be inhabitants of the same planet. Yet there are
people who would admire the sharp-nosed black-eyed
lady, popularly known as Mrs. Peters, more than
Barbara Penrith.

Mark took his time to answer the attack, the
while Mrs. Peters shut her workbox with an angry
slam, and locked it sharply with a trumpery little
key, as if it held priceless treasures.

I've had a glass or two of brandy-ands water,' he
said at last, in a lazy voice, ' and I've played a game
of billiards with Nichols and Didcott and Marston,
and I've spent exactly an hour and a half at the
King's Arms ; and as that's about the only amusement
I have in life, it's hard if I can't do as much
without being called over the coals.'

You might have come home last night,' said the
lady, nothing mollified.

No, I oughtn't. The bride and bridegroom were
expected, and I was obliged to do the civil.'

What's she like ?'

'A pretty woman, but sickly. She was very ill
while they were abroad.'

Serve her right, a shameful creature, selling
herself to an elderly man that she can't care twopence
for, and coming between my children and their
rights ! I hope it was her guilty conscience that made
her ill. I should like to give her a bit of my mind.'

Now, Molly,' pleaded Mark, with an anxious
glance at the door, as if he thought there might be
listeners, even in that quiet place. * You know it's
part of our bargain that  '

That I should hold my tongue till it pleases you
to give me leave to speak. Don't I know that ? I
made a promise, and I've kept it ; though it has cut
me to the quick to be looked down upon by all
Camelot.'

You're not looked down upon. Who has ever
said an uncivil word to you ?'

*It's not what they say,' retorted Mrs. Peters
moodily ; * it's what they think.'

What need you care for their thoughts ? You've
got a house of your own, and a servant of your own,
and a good gown to your back, and my trap to drive
in whenever you want a drive. You're a precious deal
better off than when you were barmaid at Lanherne's.'

No, I'm not,' said Molly, with conviction; 'for
then everybody in the place knew I was a prudent
young woman, and now they don't.'

*I don't know what you call prudence,' grumbled
Mark, waxing savage. ' You were a most audacious
flirt.'

I gave everybody as good as they brought ; but
you never heard of my walking out with a mortal soul
till I walked out with you.'

Mark sighed, and let this thoughts slip back to
the past. Too well he remembered those pleasant
summer evenings, eleven years ago, when he and the
barmaid from the King's Arms had strolled together
by the ferny banks, and prattled of those nothings
which make up the talk of commonplace lovers.
Too well he remembered how he had praised her eyes
and her nose and her mouth ; and how from compliments
they had come to kisses  not too quickly,
for Molly knew how to keep a gentleman sweetheart
at arm's length  and from kisses to promises, till
that one fatal promise was given which had been a
blight and burden to Mark Penrith ever since.

The promise had been faithfully kept, for Mark
was yielding and Mary Somers was resolute ; and the
summer after that sunshiny period of courtship in
green lanes, Mary, who had disappeared from the
ken of Camelot for some time, returned as suddenly
as she had vanished, and established herself in the
cottage on the St. Columb road. The cottage was
newly papered and painted, and a Launceston upholsterer
sent over a unload of smart furniture, which
became at once and for ever the chief delight of

Mary's soul. She told her old acquaintance that she
had been staying at Plymouth, and that she had
married a commercial traveller called Peters; and
after having volunteered this information, she favoured
her more particular friends with a presentation
to a very pink baby, in a still pinker bassinet.

Years went by, and Mrs. Peters continued to
occupy the house on the St. Columb road. More
babies were gradually introduced to Camelot society,
or rather to that portion thereof in which Mrs. Peters
moved; but in all those years nobody was ever so
fortunate as to make the acquaintance of Mr. Peters,
or to behold that gentleman in the flesh. He came
and went like the wind, which blowed whither it
listeth. People heard his wife talk of him, but nobody
ever saw him.

*My husband is very reserved,' Mary told her
particular friend, Mrs. Plumtree, at the Golden
Lion.

Yes,' said Plumtree, when the remark was reported
to him ; ' he's so reserved that there ain't a
mortal in Camelot as ever laid eyes on him. He's
uncommon clever at hiding, that fellow. She met

him in Plymouth, she says, and it was there they
were married. Well, I know a good few in Plymouth,
and I've asked every one of 'em if they ever
met with a bagman by the name of Peters, and
there's not one as ever has. Ask her to show you her
marriage-lines, my lass, and see how she takes it.'

Lor', Plumtree, why should I up and insult her ?
Marriage-lines, indeed ! She's a good customer tous,
and she pays for all she has. What do I want
with her marriage-lines? When I told you them
words of hers, I was only talking for the sake of talking.'


That's what you very often do, my dear.
Well, it don't much matter. Poor young woman !
She's like one o' them fabulous birds as stick
their heads in the sand and fancy nobody can see
'em. Peters, the commercial traveller, is Mark
Penrith, and everybody in'Camelot knows that as
well as that the town-clock is twenty minutes behind
London time.'

Some say that he's married to her.'

Some say stuff and nonsense. Mark Penrith
may be a full, but he ain't such a full as that.'

This was the general style of Camelot conversation
when Mrs. Peters was the subject of discussion.
The lady herself was sharp enough to
guess exactly how people would think and talk
about her, and this knowledge was galling. Even
a clean conscience would not sustain her against
the tormenting knowledge that she was thought
lightly of ' up town.'

And when you do condescend to come home
to your wife and family,' pursued Mrs. Peters,
with a snappish emphasis on the word ' wife,' 'you
are that disagreeable and that gloomy  '

Don't nag, Molly. You're such a good hand
at it that it's natural you should like doing it;
but don't nag to-night, my girl. I've had a worrying
day in the business.'

All your days are worrying days, as far as
I can see. You've had the miserable for the last
twelve months. It's the brandy you drink at the
King's Arms. I know what old Lanherne's brandy
is; perhaps if you did, you wouldn't burn your
inside with it. That's what gives you the miserable,
Mark, not the business. Why need you

worry about the business, I should like to know?
You do your work and you get your wages.
Whether things go right or wrong can't make
much difference to you.'

*But it does make a difference  a tremendous
difference ! If things go wrong at the quarry it
will be my ruin. I wonder whether jon'd stick
to me, Molly, if I were a beggar ?'

'Stick to you!' echoed Molly indignantly;
'why, I should be obliged to stick to you. You
needn't be afraid of that; you've got me fast
enough  as fast as the law of the land can bind
me.'

But suppose I was a ruined man  a disgraced
man ?'

I'm not going to suppose any such thing, and
I'm not going to encourage you in the miserable.
If this is what bad brandy can bring a man to,
thank God I'm sober. And now if you want any
supper, I'll lay the cloth. There's the whalebone
of as pretty a little shoulder of lamb as you ever
set eyes on, and I've washed a lettuce and a handful
of spring onions ready for a salad.'

Thank you, Molly. No, I couldn't eat anything,'
answered Mark, casting about the bolsters
in profoundest melancholy.

No,' snapped Mary ; ' people who give their
minds to drinking never can eat like healthy
Christians. You're doing your best to dig your
own grave, Mark.'

You won't mend matters by preaching sermons,'
grumbled Mark. ' How are the children ?'

0, they're well enough, poor little souls.
They can't look into the future. They don't
know that their uncle has got married, and that
the finest estate in Cornwall has passed away from
them, and left 'em face to face with the Union.'

They've no right to complain. Suppose my
brother chooses to marr', and suppose Providence
sends him half a dozen stalwart sons, as tall and
as gaunt as himself, we've no right to grumble.'

*But I say wee have a right to grumble.
Haven't I put up with everything  with being
looked down upon in the place where I've lived
half my life, and no one but a woman knows how
hard that is to bear  for the sake of the future,

SO that my boy might be squire and master at
Place by and by ? And now there's a young wife,
and before we're a year older there'll be a baby,
perhaps  who knows ?  and my boy will be a
beggar. There's no call for me to hold my tongue
any longer ; I may just as well speak out and
claim my due.'

Molly,' cried Mark, in a deadly fright, * don't
talk like that ! You wouldn't break your promise,
would you, my girl ?'

'I don't see as the promise is binding now
your brother has gone and got married.'

It is binding ; it was a solemn promise. I
should never have done what I did if you hadn't
sworn to keep my secret. If you blab I shall bea
beggar, turned off at the quarries.'

*And turned out of your soft nest at Place,
where you keep your hunters, and play the gay
bachelor, while me and mine are wearing our hearts
out here.'

Nonsense ! My three bonny boys aren't wearing
their hearts out; they're healthy and happy
enough little ruffians.*

Yes, poor little innocents, because they know
no better. The truth will come upon them like
a thunderclap, some day.'

*If any harm come to them, it will be their
mother's doing. As long as you hold your tongue,
Molly, all will go right  most likely'

Who said I wasn't going to hold my tongue ?
But I'm not going to be treated as a cipher. If
you want me to stand by you, you must trust me.
You come home here and groan and chuck the
sofa-cushions about, and you never tell me what's
the matter with you.'

There's nothing the matter. Of course Im
disappointed about this marriage, as well as you,
though I don't talk so much.'

No, you were never a talker. But now that
your brother's got married himself, don't you
think he'd be more indulgent and take things
easy if you was to tell him  '

*I'll never tell him. Don't think that you'll
drive me to it, Molly. I told you that you'd have
to keep your secret as long as Yyvyan lives ;
and if you break the promise you made me  Well,

VOL. II. E

there's no use talking; but I can tell you this,
Molly: if you drive me to it, I'll chuck myself
into the sea some fine morning, and make an end
of my troubles.'

ON SOME WILD DOWN ABOVE THE WINDY DEEP.'

The strong breath of the Atlantic, the perfect restfulness
of her life at Penrith Place, did for Barbara
what the smiling shores of Lake Leman and
the vaporous valley of Interlaced had failed to do.
The sweet wild-rose bloom came back to her cheek,
the lustre to her eyes. If the dull permanent pain
of despair, which poets call a broken heart, were of
itself fatal, Barbara would have surely died. But
she carried her grief about with her, she bore her
burden in silence and resignation, and she went on
living. Interest in life she had little. The grand
old Cromwellian house was beautiful in her eyes,
but it only seemed to her like a house in a picture.
It had no part in her own life. She never thought
of it as home. Home was the cottage in South-lane
; the cosy little rooms,  0, how small they
seemed looking back at them from her present grandeur
!  the half acre of garden, the familiar chairs

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOiS

and tables, amidst which she had grown up. Those
things must ever remain unutterably dear.

Her husband was very kind to her  kind in his
own grim way, which was like harshness in other
people. The grating voice, with its loud bass tones,
startled her a little in these days, when her nerves
were very weak. But she knew that, after his own
peculiar fashion, he was good to her, good and forbearing,
since he had told her how in her fever and
delirium she had raved about her first lover.

I think if I had known how fond you were of
that soldier I should hardly have been fool enough
to marry you, besotted as I was about you from the
hour we met,' he said one day, when he had been
talking of her illness.

'I told you that I had loved him with all my
heart,' she faltered meekly.

Had loved ? Yes. But I believed it was a
thing of the past.'

It was past, quite past. We had given each
other up. But when I was ill the old days came
back, just as earlier days came back sometimes in
those long dreadful nights, and I fancied myself a

child again, playing at childish games with Flossie.
You must not think of anything I said while I was
ill, Yyvyau. Past and present were all in a tangle

Well, it's not worth thinking about, perhaps.
You were very bad. It was not a lively honeymoon.'


I am sorry I gave you so much trouble.'

Egad, I believe falling in love is all trouble. I
would not give you up now I have got you ; but I
know I was a happier man before I saw your face.'

This was not a pleasant way of looking at things.
Yyvyan had yielded to a fascination that was stronger
than himself. The stern nature had been subjugated
by a girl's grace and beauty as by a spell. He
submitted, but he was angry with himself for submitting.
He looked upon his love and his marriage
as a fatality. If Barbara had loved him he would
have bowed to Fate, and rejoiced in his bondage.
He would have been the most devoted, the most
yielding of husbands. This rugged old tree would
have bent like the tenderest sapling. But Barbara
did not love him, and she was too frank to affect a
love she could not feel. She was gentle and obedient,

grateful for his kindness, but there lier measure
of duty ended. She had no idea that duty could
constrain her to pretend affection.

She bore her new honours with a gentle humility
which ought to have disarmed her foes. Even Priscilla
could find no cause for complaint, though she
had been compelled to hand over her cherished
housekeeping keys, and to sink into a subordinate
position in a house where she had been sole mistress
so long.

Strange for Barbara, whose only notion of an
establishment was the all - comprehensive Amelia,
to find herself mistress of half a dozen women-servants
and as many men, indoor and outdoor.
The middle-aged butler, who had washed spoons and
glasses in his boyhood in the same pantry where he
now decanted his wine and read his newspaper, took
kindly to the young wife ; not so much for the love
he bore her as for his honest dislike of Priscilla.
That lady's spiritual views, had weighed heavily on
the whole household. She had been a sworn foe to
followers, to all kitchen revelries. She had been
hard as the granite of her native hills. And now,

under the dominion of a young wife, the servants felt
that things would be differently managed. There
would be a slackening of the reins.

Little as he spent upon himself, and hard as he
was in all business transactions, Yyvyan Penrith
was liberal in his ideas as a master. He had been
brought up to consider a house full of servants as
part of himself  not for rank and state, but for old
time-honoured custom. His father had kept so
many servants, and he would keep the same number.
He did not give large wages. Labour was cheap in
that remote western world, but he would have no
stint in his kitchen and servants' hall.

It had been in vain that his sister had told him
there were more cats than could catch mice.

'I like to see the cats about the place,' he said.
It's I who have to pay for them. You needn't
trouble.'

I am too conscientious not to be troubled by
wasteful ways and idleness, which are pernicious to
soul and body,' retorted Priscilla.

Idleness ! Why, there's no one in the house
so idle as you,' growled her brother. * You do nothing

but write twaddling letters to other old tabbies,
and read pious books.'

I am trying to prepare myself for a world where
I shall have many things that are denied me here,
Vyvyan ; and where I shall be better understood,'
said Miss Penrith, with dignity.

Barbara's chief pleasure at Penrith Place was
the flower-garden. That was a real delight. To
inhabit a land where roses and myrtle grew and
flourished, as they grew and flourished here, was
almost as good as being a princess in a fairy tale.
When her husband saw that she was fond of flowers
he gave her an extra gardener.

Have as many men about as you like,' he said ;

so long as you leave my sister her dahlia-garden,
you can do what you please with the rest. If you'd
like a hothousal'll build you one, so that you may
have flowers to ornament your rooms in winter.'

*You are very good,' murmured Barbara, wondering
as she always wondered at his rough kindness,
knowing how little she had done to deserve it.

I don't want to give you any trouble.'

It will be no trouble. I shall just order a man

to come from Launceston and build a hothouse.
Coles, your new gardener, knows all about it. Since
you don't want to make any alteration in the house,
you may as well have your own way in the garden.
Fine roses these yellow ones, aren't they ?' he went
on, sniffing at a Marshal Noel. * Do you remember
my bringing you a bunch of yellow roses once when
you were ill ? I had only seen you twice at that
time, yet you had taken hold of my life. I was
miserable about you.'

Did she remember ? Could she ever forget that
wretched time, when she was lying sick to death
with sorrow? The sight of yellow roses brought
back the old pain. She could see Flossie bouncing
into the room and flinging the flowers on her bed.

*I want to make you happy if I can,' pursued
her husband, this being one of his rare moments of
confidence. ' I am glad you are satisfied with the
old house as it stands, and the old furniture, which
has been in it ever since Cromwell's time.'

Satisfied!' echoed Barbara. * Have you forgotten
the home I came from  the secondhand chairs
and tables and odd bits of china, and the cottage-piano

at Camberwell ? And yet that is my ideal of
a home. I have the same kind of feeling about it,
I suppose, that a bird has about his nest  mere
twisted wisps of grass and bits of twigs and scraps
of wool, yet it is his highest notion of comfort.'

I hope you will get to like Place as well as you
liked Camberwell.'

Perhaps in time ; but I must grow to it, you
see. I know that it is a grand old house, and exactly
like an ogre's palace in a fairy tale.'

And I am like the ogre ?'

You are a very good-natured ogre,' Barbara answered,
with one of her rare smiles.

I try to be. I try to make you happy. Do you
know that I have ordered a new carriage for you ?
Mine were all dropping to pieces, worn out with long
disuse. I have ordered a landau, and I am going to
get you a pony-carriage, which you can drive yourself.
I have told Mark to look out for a pair of
ponies.'

How generous you are !' cried Barbara, flushing
with absolute pleasure ; * and how pleased my mother
and Flossie will be  when  if  tjiey come to see me !*

*Ah, bytlie way, you wanted them to come to
you, didn't you? I remember your saying something
about it. Let them come as soon as you like.'

Barbara stood on tip-toe and kissed him, the first
spontaneous kiss she had given him since he had
been her husband.

Do you really mean it *?' she cried, enchanted.
May they really and truly come, and are you sure
you won't mind ?'

Why should I mind ? Have them here tomorrow
if it will make you happy. I want to see
you smile and to hear you laugh, as you did that first
night at the play.'

Ah,' sighed Barbara, with a sharp sudden pang,
*so many things have happened since then.'

What things?'

I have grown so much older.'

Why, it's only a year ago.'

She wrote to her mother that night, a letter overflowing
with love, and with a flavour of real happiness
in it which her former letters had never had,
though she had made them elaborately cheerful.
Writing home had been one of her chief consolations.

She had described the house and garden, the tors,
the moors, the heather, and granite, every feature
of her new home ; she had praised her husband ; she
had spoken kindly of good-natured sauntering Mark ;
she had even found a good word for Priscilla.

She is very, almost painfully, religious,' she
wrote ; 'but I have no right to find fault with her for
that, as no doubt she is thoroughly sincere. She
has a fortune of her own, you know, quite independent
of her brother's ; so she has no motive for pretending.'


To-night she wrote in wild spirits :

You are to come at once, darling  ** directly
minute," as old nurse used to say to us  as soon as
ever rail and coach will bring you. I shall send my
carriage to meet you at Launceston. Don't trouble
about gowns or luggage of any kind ; bring anything
or nothing. Don't, for Heaven's sake, say you must
have a week to get ready, as you usually do about
everything, you dear slowcoach ; but just put your
brushes and combs in a carpet-bag, and come oiF at
once ! I have heaps of money, and we can buy all
you want at Launceston, where the shops are very

good, though not nearly equal to the Walworth-road.
Ever dear one, I am so happy at the thought of seeing
you after our first weary parting ; and, 0, how
shall I ever let you go hack to dear old Camberwell
again ? And I wonder how you will feel in this
Cromwellian mansion, where nobody but servants is
ever allowed to do any sweeping or dusting, and
where all things go in a slow monotonous way, as if
the house was managed by clockwork. And the
gardens ! Ah, those will delight you ! But Flossie
will call the place dull, no doubt, for there is not a
single shop to look at on the moor ; and I daresay
she will get tired of the two big brown tors that are
always staring at one solemnly, as much as to say,
You poor, contemptible, modern, evanescent creatures,
ice were here before the Flood; we shall be
here at the day of judgment." '

There was great rejoicing at Camberwell when
Barbara's invitation came. Mrs. Trevornock and
her younger daughter had been enjoying a delightful
change of air at quiet little Broadstairs, with alternations
of gaiety at Margate and Ramsgate ; and the
sea-breezes and novelty of life had helped to restore

Mrs. Trevornock to perfect health and strength. But
the grand restorative was that ease of mind which
came from a secure future, and the delightful idea
that Barbara was established for life in her rightful
position, as a great lady. It never entered into her
thoughts that she had done wrong in promoting her
daughter's marriage with Vyvjan Penrith. She was
not the kind of woman who would have deliberately
sold her child into bondage. Yet she had been
made somewhat uneasy now and then by the tone of
her darling's letters, which, though studiously cheerful,
did not breathe the spirit of happiness. The
girl had written about outward things  of herself
and her own feelings hardly at all  of her husband
only a few words now and then, telling them that he
had been very good to her. But now this letter was
full of life and sunshine, as if written by the happy
Bab of old days, before the coming of Captain Leland,
before the beginning of love and sorrow.

There was a happy day of tremendous bustle,
hurried starching and ironing, and packing of a new
trunk and a new portmanteau, bought for the occasion
; and then, early in the fresh September morning,

Mrs. Trevornock and her daughter left South-lane
in a four-wheel cab, on their way to the railway-station.


First class, of course, ma,' said Flossie, when she
took her mother's purse to get the tickets, claiming
all business transactions as her own especial province.
I am afraid it would cost a great deal of money,'
answered Mrs. Trevornock dubiously. 'Don't you
think we could go to Exeter second class, and then
take first-class tickets on to the station where we are
to change to the coach ?'

That might be done, but it seems mean ; and
if we were to meet any one who knows Barbara aud
us'

So few people know us.'

True. We are rather like poor La Yalliere 
violets that hide themselves in the grass; second
class will do;' and Flossie tripped briskly to the
booking-office, and fought valiantly for her place in
the rank, and came out of the struggle triumphantly
with her two tickets and the correct change.

It was a very long journey, but a happy one ; a
feast of green fields and hill and valley, glimpses of

distant woodland, winding streams, and rustic villages
; and lastly, the grandeur of a wild range of
pasture on the skirts of Dartmoor, over which they
travelled in a good old-fashioned stage-coach, and
then by pastoral Bedford, and woody Lufton, until
they came to Launceston, where Barbara's own carriage
had been sent to meet the travellers. It was
an ancient britzska, much the worse for wear, which
looked as if it had been built in the year one, as
Flossie pertly observed, when she had established
herself comfortably in the roomy back seat, with her
bonnet-box, parasol, and umbrella, and divers minor
parcels on the seat opposite her ; but as Barbara was
to have a new landau immediately, the shabbiness
of the existing vehicle counted for nothing.

Now I do feel thankful to Providence,' Mrs. Tree
exclaimed piously ; ' for I am sitting in my
daughter's carriage, and the dream of my life is
realised.'

0,' said Flossie, ' then I suppose you have no
dream to be fulfilled about poor little me and my
carriage ?'

My dear Flossie, you know what a bright clever

girl I think you. Nobody has ever denied your good
looks; but Barbara's beauty is  well, really, you
know  '

Don't be apologetic,' said Flossie. ' I'm quite
willing to admit Bab's superiority ; but I should like
to think there was a carriage  something better than
this family ark, which positively smells of dry-rot 
looming in the future for me.'

Why not, dear ?' said the sanguine mother ;
'with such opportunities as Barbara can give you,
you ought to make a splendid match.'

They were climbing slowly up the steep Launceston
street by this time, and Flossie was looking
eagerly right and left for bonnets and haberdashery.

Bab may well call this place inferior to the
Walworth-road,' she exclaimed at last; 'there's nota
shop worth looking at.'

Half an hour later. Miss Trevornock found herself
face to face with primeval Nature in the shape
of the Cornish tors.

What big brown things !' she exclaimed contemptuously,
being of a temper which would not have
been overawed by Mont Blanc. 'Are those the creator.

II. F

turns your Tre, Pol, and Pen make such a fuss about ?
I expected to see them ever so much higher.'

Mrs. Trevornock's memory had wandered back to
the distant past.

When Mr. T. brought me to Cornwall after my
honeymoon, the joy-bells were rung as our post-chaise
drove through the village,' she said pensively.

Then I hope pa was not expected to pay the
ringers,' retorted Flossie, ' for I'm sure he wouldn't
have done it.'

*No, dear; your grandmother paid for everything.
She was the soul of generosity ; and she welcomed
me as lovingly as if I had been her own daughter.
You don't remember your grandmother ?'

How should I, when I never saw her ?' snapped
Flossie. ' But I think she must have been a most
extraordinary woman.'

How so, dear ?'

 For being so nice herself, and yet contriving to
have such a son as Mr. T.'

Ah, Flossie, there are anomalies in life,' sighed
Mrs. Trevornock, with a philosophical air.

After about an hour's drive they came to the

'What a noble mansion, Flossie!' she cried. 'It
is like one of the show-places I used to be taken to
see when I was a girl !'

But here was something that went nearer to the
maternal heart than the mansion ; here was Barbara
herself, standing in the porch, in a white gown,
waiting for her mother and sister. She ran to the
carriage-door ; she could hardly wait till the steady
old coachman had pulled up his horses before her
arms were round her mother's neck, and she was

crying and laughing on her shoulder in a rapture of
affection that was almost hysterical.

*My darling, what a century since I have seen
you ! And how well you are looking ! Flossie too.'

We had three weeks at Broadstairs, you know,
dear explained Mrs. Trevornock, with joyful tears
in her eyes.

It was lovely,' said Flossie. * Such stylish
people ; the band played every afternoon before the
Albion ; lodgings a fabulous price.'

Barbara led her mother into the house, that
happy parent gazing at everything with awe and admiration.


My dearest child,' she faltered, ' I never felt so
proud in my life. Such a glorious old house ! such
a heavenly garden ! What a good man your husband
must be !'

Yes,' sighed Barbara, * he is all that is good.'

And then Mrs. Trevornock felt a gentle thrill of
disapprobation How wise she had been ! how
truth she had played a mother's part ! and what a
lucky stroke Flossie had made in losing that foolish
letter, which would have spoiled everything !

Providence has been very good to us,' lie
thought complacently.

Flossie,' began Barbara, in a confidential tone,
I hope you'll be very polite to Miss Penrith.'

'I'll do my best,' replied Flossie; 'but I have
made up my mind to hate her. Of course she's the
image of Mr. Penrith ?'

She's not in the least like him.'

Then she ought to be,' retorted Flossie. ' It is
a gross impertinence for the members of a family to
set up an individuality of their own.'

Will you come straight up to your rooms and
get ready for dinner, or would you like a cup of tea
first, mother darling '?' asked Barbara.

People in this dark period of history contrived
to exist without the now indispensable five-o'clock
tea ; but Barbara felt that this was an occasion for
special tea-drinking.

I think a cup of tea would revive me,' said Mrs.
Trevornock.

You shall have it in your own room, dearest,
and then you need not face Miss Penrith till you
are refreshed.'

*I suppose you call her Priscilla?' suggested
Flossie.

I have not arrived at that yet.'
Then you are getting on very slowly.'
They all three went up the dark old staircase ina
loving cluster. Yyvyan and Mark were out ; Priscilla
was in the retirement of her own room, where
she spent a considerable portion of her life reading,
writing letters, labouring at some elaborate piece of
fancy-work, or making coarse and homely raiment
for divers ancient pensioners. Barbara and her
guests had the house all to themselves. She took
them to the rooms she had brightened and embellished
for their occupation. There were flowers in
abundance on mantelpiece and tables. The faded
and sombre hues of the past made a harmonious
background for the rich damask of roses, the vivid
scarlet of geraniums.

Gilmore, Barbara's special favourite among the
servants, a plump fair-haired young woman, brought
the tea on a massive old silver tray  tea and sweet
home-made biscuits and clotted cream and honey in
the comb.

I hope you don't expect me to eat any dinner,
Bab,' cried Flossie, 'for I am going to enjoy myself
now.'

Gilmore will always answer your bell, mother,'
said Barbara ; ' she has promised to take especial
care of you.'

That I will, ma'am,' protested Gilmore, with a
radiant grin. 'I'd do anything to please my mistress.'


'Is she your very own maid?' asked Flossie,
when the affectionate Gilmore had vanished.

'Yes. She is the housekeeper's daughter, and
was promoted from being under-housemaid to wait
upon me. She is a most faithful devoted creature.'

'Fancy your having a maid of your own!' exclaimed
Flossie ; ' it is like a dream. What would
Amelia think?'

Poor good-natured little Amelia ! Does she
sing as much as ever ?'

More, now that she has more butcher's meat.
I think she must eat it raw, like a blackbird.
"Thou art gone from my  hi  gaze, like a 
dream !" all day long sometimes. It's

rather trying when one's kitchen is within a stone's
throw of one's parlour. Your servants here might
be shouting nigger-choruses all day long, and you
need not hear a note.'

Mrs. Trevornock reposed in the slumberous corner
of an old-fashioned sofa, sipping strong tea, and contemplating
her surroundings dreamily, too full of
content for much speech. Through the open lattice,
the one practicable opening in the wide Tudor window,
came the breath of land and sea, flowers and
ocean-weeds. Yonder far away rose the Cornish
mountains, remote, inaccessible save to a hardy
climber. The grave old room was changed in nothing
since the days when stern Cromwell held the
helm of state, and New Place was a peaceful haven
for the exiled King's adherents. What a contrast
to the modern shabbiness of South-lane, Camber-tell!


The comfortable little house, which till now had
been a thing of beauty and a perennial source of pride,
must henceforward seem ineffably shabby to Mrs.
Trevornock. Yet there was no touch of envy mingled
with her admiration. It seemed to her only the

rightful order of things that Barbara should inhabit
a noble old mansion, while her mother and sister
dwelt far off in humility, and looked up to her from
their remoteness as to a new Esther, glorified and
beautified by her wealthy lord's surroundings. Mrs.
Trevornock folded her hands, and felt that she had
done her duty.

*What a dear ugly old teapot!' cried Flossie,
pausing in her onslaught on the honeycomb. ' Silver,
I suppose ?'

Yes ; Mr. Penrith's plate is all silver.'

Tray and all. It must weigh a hundredweight.
And to think that our family plate is comprised by
half a dozen teaspoons and our great-aunt Sarah's
muffineer ! And of all the articles that silversmiths
ever invented, I think a muffineer is the most useless
and unmeaning.'

Those were halcyon days for Barbara ; a glorious
September, a peerless October. Every eye in England
was turned to the Crimea, every thought was
of news from the seat of war ; but Barbara heard of
repulse or victory with but a languid interest. He
was not there. Her soldier, her hero was far away

in that remoter world, where battles as desperate and
victories as grand had been fought and won for the
last hundred years, with hardly an interval in the
march of conquest. Sebastopol fell, and even in this
far west there was ringing of bells, and bonfires
were lighted and tar-barrels blazed as gaily as on
St. John's-eve; but Barbara was absorbed in the
delight of her mother's society, and took the faintest
notice of bells and bonfires. The rose-bloom had
come back to her cheeks, the lustre to her lovely
eyes. Yyvyan looked on and understood, with a
bitter sense of wrong, her great capacity for loving,
and her inability to love him.

What affection she lavishes on mother and
sister! how passionately she loved that Indian
soldier ! Yet to me she is cold as marble. What a
besotted idiot I was when I married her !'

He had tried, according to his lights, to* win her
love ; he had been kind, liberal, and indulgent, but
he felt that he had failed. She was grateful ; she
gave him respect, obedience, deference, as her part
of the bargain ; but he was no nearer her heart than
he had been when she yielded herself, shrinkingly,

reluctantly, to his first kiss, the solemn kiss of betrothal.


'Fool, fool, fool !' he said to himself, in bitterest
self scorn ; and then he lapsed back into his old self,
and was hard and grumpy and matter-of-fact as of
yore  a man living within himself, and taking little
delight in life.

Meanwhile Mrs. Trevornock and Flossie were
revelling in all the good things of this world, dawdling
away sunny mornings in a garden running over with
roses, waxing sleek and fat upon much Cornish cake
and Cornish cream ; going for long drives to choice
bits of scenery, taking their luncheon with them, for
the delight of eating uncomfortably among the slippery
serpentine rocks where the gulls and cormorants
lived, or on some breezy hill-top, swept by all the
winds that blow across the wide Atlantic. Flossie
inspected the neighbouring scenery, and turned up
her small nose at the oldest-established lions on the
Cornish coast, making light of Tintagel, and expressing
herself irreverently about Logan Stones, cromlechs,
serpent-worship, and the Druids generally.

Miss Penrith had no share in these amusements.

Barbara invited her politely and formally to take her
seat in the family carriage, the new landau, roomy,
substantial, and comfortable ; a carriage that would
have held six as easily as it held four.

I am not fond of long drives,' Priscilla replied
stiffly ;  I consider them a waste of life.'

One must spend one's life somehow,' said Barbara,
with a faint sigh.

*If we thought of our lives as talents for which
we shall have to account, we should hardly spend
them driving about to look at cliffs and rocks,' retorted
Priscilla, with a wrathful glance at Flossie,
whose very presence affected her as a scarlet flag
affects an irascible bull.

I don't think we shall find our account in the
skies stand any the worse for the happy hours we
have spent admiring the beauty of the earth,' protested
this young lady.

I cannot argue with flippancy,' said MissPenruth.

*No one would ever accuse you of being flippant,'
returned Flossie.

I was talking of your flippancy, Miss Trevor-neck.'


Then you ought to have made yourself
clearer.'

There had been numerous skirmishes between
the two ladies, Flossie generally getting the best of
the argument, or, at any rate, by the pertness of her
manner appearing to come victorious out of the fray.
Never had Miss Penrith disliked any one so intensely
; and her capacity for dislike was large.
Mark, on the contrary, had taken kindly to the
lively Flossie. Her vivacity amused him, and distracted
him from those gloomy thoughts which had
of late oppressed him. She was his ideal of agreeable
young-ladyhood. He wondered at his brother's
folly in choosing the elder sister. What was a little
beauty more or less ? Mark had found out by hard
experience that well-cut features and a brilliant complexion
will not of themselves alone make a man's
fireside pleasant to him. His real need in life, did
he but know it in time, is a cheerful sweet-tempered
companion, light of foot over the stony ways of the
world, with a spirit brave enough to face an occasional
tempest, a mind sunnier than the sunshine
when all is fair. Flossie seemed to Mark just this

kind of girl. Her tongue was sharp, but her temper
and heart were excellent.

I suppose your mother-in-law and her daughter
are settled here for life Priscilla said to her brother
one day, when he happened to be at home at luncheon,
and they two were lunching alone together, while
Barbara and her guests were far afield. ' Mrs. Pen-ruth
seems so happy, and has changed so much for
the better, as far as good spirits go, since they have
come, that it would be a pity to send them away.'

*Yes, she is very happy with them,' Vyvyan
answered moodily.

*Yet you would hardly have counted upon that
when you married.'

Counted upon what ?'

Upon having your mother-in-law fixed here for
life.'

She is not fixed for life ; they are going home
in a week or so,' answered Vyvyan ; and he made up
his mind that they should go.

LOOKING EASTWARD.

Without being actually a miser, V''yY3-an Penrith
was a man who set a liigli value on money. The
habit of his life had been to spend very little, keeping
a good establishment, but courting no society,
caring for none of those things upon which the
landed gentry are wont to spend their incomes.
When the occasion came it gave him no pain to part
with money ; but to have been cheated out of a shilling
would have given him real uneasiness. The
people who knew him best called him a hard man.
He had been adamant against the appeals of tenants
in distress. He had made up his mind long ago 
indeed it had been a fixed belief with his father before
him  that most of the farms on the estate were
under-rented ; and he would show no indulgence to
an unlucky tenant : come rain or sunshine, good
harvest or bad harvest, he must have his bond. He
had no toleration for unlucky people, and was inclined

to consider misfortune as a kind of blundering, indicative
of inherent stupidity in the victim.

I was not sent into the world to bear the burden
of other people's blunders,' he would say.

He had inherited a large estate, large in land,
which yielded at the best three per cent, rich in the
quarries, which had been in years past a mine of
wealth. Of late the profits from the quarries had
been gradually diminishing, and during the last year
they had lessened to an almost alarming extent.
This state of affairs was so unpleasant to Mr. Pen-ruth
that he began, for the first time in his life, to be
doubtful of Mark's excellence as a man of business,
and to look with disapproval, and even suspicion,
upon his brother's taste for field-sports and ardent
love of the brute creation.

I can't imagine what makes you so fond of
horses,' he said to Mark testily one day, when he
came into the stable-yard, and found his brother and
the veterinary surgeon confabulating about a brown
cob, which had just been trotted up and down for
inspection. ' It isn't in the Penrith breed to waste
money on four-footed beasts. I hope you don't bet.'

I hope a man may be fond of a good horse without
being a turf gambler,' answered Mark, with a
vexed air. He had been curiously short-tempered of
late. ' A fellow must amuse himself somehow in a
dull hole like this

If all I hear is true, you contrive to amuse yourself
in more ways than one,' said the elder brother
grimly, as he turned on his heel, with a curt nod to
the veterinary surgeon.

When this conversation took place between the
brothers, Barbara had been two years married, and it
seemed to her as if the longer half of her life had
been spent on this Cornish moor. Her mother and
sister had paid her two visits in the two years, and on
the second occasion Miss Penrith had retired precipitately
from the field before the arrival of the enemy.
"When she heard that Flossie was coming she announced
her intention of spending six weeks in Bath,
to enjoy a course of sermons from a popular preacher.

I suppose your sister will not be with you longer
than six weeks !' she said to Barbara. * Your mother
would hardly like to abandon her house for an indefinite
period.'

VOL. n. G

They may possibly stay seven or even eight
weeks answered Barbara, colouring, ' if you call
that an indefinite period. I did not make my invitation
particularly definite. I did not tell them. So
long shall you stay, and no longer. But why should
you go away. Miss Penrith ? Surely this house
is large enough to hold us all ?'

'It is not large enough to hold me and your
sister,' retorted Priscilla, in her sourest voice. ' If
it were as big as St. Peter's at Some, it would not
be large enough for that.'

'I am sorry,' said Barbara, with a proud resignation,
which her sister-in-law denounced as the acme
of insolence.

So Mrs. Trevornock and Flossie came for their
second visit to Place, and enjoyed the summer
weather in that breezy world ever so far above the
chimney pots of the highest house in Launceston.
Mark softened wonderfully on this second occasion.
He took Flossie under his wing, having found her
passionately fond of animals and altogether a kindred
spirit. He taught her riding, finding her a decent
mount in one of his numerous disappointments in

horseflesh  all his horses resulting sooner or later
in abject failure, after a brief golden age of absolute
perfection. Flossie proved herself fearless and clever,
and delighted her instructor.

But just when everything up at Place was going
merrily as marriage-bells, one of those malignant
little birds that fly across even the fairest countryside
conveyed the intelligence of Mark's carrying-on
to a certain cottage outside Camelot, and the riding-lessons
came to an abrupt end. Mark found his
office-work so heavy that he took to spending four
nights a week in his bachelor den at the quarries, and
Mossie saw very little more of him.

I actually miss him,' she informed her sister.
In a civilised place like Walworth one would hardly
be aware of his existence ; but here he counts for
something. At the worst he is a man.'

And now Barbara had been nearly three years
a wife, and last summer and that holiday-time when
her mother and sister were with her seemed ages ago.
She and her husband were no nearer to each other
than they had been in the beginning of things. Fate
had ordered that they should be a childless couple.

No tender domestic association had grown up to fill
the place of the love that was not, and never had been,
in the young wife's heart. Her husband shut himself
up in his pride, as in a citadel. Yet he had no
ground for complaint. His wife was dutiful; his
wife was virtuous. She seemed even contented with
her monotonous life, which was little better than
hibernation when her mother and sister were not with
her. Her obvious happiness in their society affronted
him deeply. When they were gone it was as if a light
had gone out of her, leaving her a soulless piece of
humanity, the lamp without the flame.

Isn't it a pity they can't be here always ?' he
asked her once, with veiled mockery.

I should be very happy if they could.'

I know that. But then, you see, I married you,
and not all your family.'

She bowed her head meekly to this harsh truth.

You have been very good to let them be here so
much,' she said, laying her hand on his shoulder, ashe
sat at his desk with his face turned from her ;
and I am truly grateful to you. They may come
again next summer, may they not ? They enjoy

themselves so much, and the air does my mother
such good.'

'Yes, they may come once a year. You may
have your spell of happiness once a year. They
say that a good daughter makes a good wife. What
a happy husband I ought to be !'

This speech was emphasised with a sardonic
grin at his papers, and a sidelong glance of furtive
anger at her.

Vyvyan, are j'ou angry with me ?' she faltered.

No,' he answered sternly, ' I am never angry
with you , but I am often angry with myself.'

May came, and with the end of the month the
news of the outbreak at Meerut. The Mutiny,
not wholly unexpected by those who had power to
read the signs of the times, came like a thunderclap
upon England at large. Barbara read, and
trembled as she read. She could find no mention
of her lover's name in that tale of revolted regiments,
of sudden and treacherous murder ; but
at any moment she might stumble upon the line
that told curtly of his death. She opened the
newspaper with a feverish eagerness, and yet

trembled as she read. She watched from her
bedroom window for the coming of the old messenger
who brought the post-bag, with its daily
tale of letters and papers, in the golden sunlight
betwixt afternoon and evening. Yet she had to
be cautious, to hide her impatience and her fears,
knowing that Yyvyan was jealous of her Indian
lover, and would be quick to suspect the cause
of her anxiety. Happily for her peace of mind,
Miss Penrith knew nothing of that old trouble.

'You seem interested in this Indian revolt,'
Priscilla said one evening, when Yyvyan was dining
at Launceston, and Barbara had been poring over
her Times for the last hour, undisturbed by the
distractions of society.

It is so 'dreadful to think of helpless women and
children in the power of those merciless wretches.'

What can you expect from Hindoo and Mahometan?
They ought to have been converted,
and then this would not have happened.'

*I don't think, from what I have heard, that
it is easy to make good Christians of them,' faltered
Barbara.

Of course not, because the right means have
never yet been tried,' replied Miss Penrith, as
confidently as if she were proprietress of an infallible
specific for the conversion of all Hindostan.


Barbara held her peace and went on with her
paper. Not till she had read every word of Indian
news, every line of comment, was she satisfied.
Then having read all, and found no mention of
George Leland's name, she thanked God for His
mercy, and lay down to rest with a heart something
less heavy than it had been at waking, yet
with a dread of what the morrow might bring.

She was so intensely anxious, so completely
absorbed by the fear of what each day might
bring forth, that the idea of her mother's visit,
which had until lately been her one star of hope,
became now an unwelcome thought. She dreaded
Mrs. Trevornocks searching eye, made wise by
knowledge of the past ; she shuddered at the
thought of Flossie's inconsiderate gaiety. When
Miss Penrith announced that she meant to spend
October and November with friends at Plymouth,

Barbara seized the excuse for deferring her mother
and sister's coming.

'In that case I will ask mamma and Flossie
to come to me in the autumn,' she said, * and
you will not be troubled by my sister's obnoxious
presence.'

She thus secured for herself comparative solitude
for this time of suspense and fear. And now,
with the beginning of October, when the hunter's
moon silvered the dark crest of the rugged brown
tors, and the steady old plough-horses were creeping
slowly over the uplands, and the purple heather
was fading on the Gorse Moors, and the current
of agricultural life flowed as smoothly as if there
was no bloody tragedy being played out yonder
under blue Indian skies, the name so loved, so
dreaded, began to appear in the newspapers. Captain
Leland, a man already famous for daring
and energy, though of late under a cloud, had
received orders to raise a regiment of irregular
cavalry, which soon became historical as Leland's
Horse. He took an active share in the siege of
Delhi ; he played an heroic part in the capture

of the three rebel princes  human tigers  who had
outraged helpless women, and wallowed in the blood
of infants ; remorseless scoundrels, whose pastimes
were cruelties too hideous to be told. George Leland,
at the head of a handful of men  barely one hundred
 captured and boldly made prisoners of these
royal reptiles, although supported by a fanatic and
insurgent host five thousand strong. He brought his
prisoners in a cart to one of the gates of Delhi, the
rabble following and surrounding him all the way ;
and before the gate, seeing that a rescue was imminent,
he ordered the rebel princes out of the cart, and
slew them with his own resolute hand, dominating
and overawing a savage multitude by the force of
inexorable justice. There is no Roman story
finer than that tale of the capture at Humayoon's
tomb. Rebellious India never learned a sterner ora
stronger lesson than was taught that day by an
English captain, acting on his own responsibility.

Barbara read, and her heart thrilled at the
thought of his peril, of his courage.

*0 my hero, my hero I' she cried; 'what
woman would not envy her whom you love ? And

you loved me once ; yes, it was true love, true as
your sword, true as your fidelity to England !'

The papers had told her much of her lost lover,
much that had been dark to her hitherto. The
world wanted to know what manner of man this
soldier was who had come so suddenly to the front,
and had shown a purpose and a power that would
have been great in a veteran general. He had
been under a cloud, it seemed. Three years ago,
while commanding a corps of Guides on the frontier,
he had been accused of negligent management
with regard to the public money that had passed
through his hands. He had entered upon his
office hurriedly, without time for an audit between
himself and his predecessor, and he had found all
the affairs of the station an inextricable mass of
confusion. He had tried, but ineffectually, to
evolve order out of chaos. A special military
court had investigated the charges against him ;
but by some social legerdemain the report which
should have gone to the Governor-general was
delayed for a year. A second report, demanded
by Lord Dalhousie, was kept back by private

influence till that nobleman had left India, while
Leland's reputation withered in the cold shade of a
quasi-disgrace. Later, two of the bravest generals
and best men of business in the service investigated
his regimental accounts, and testified unreservedly to
the honour and uprightness of his conduct, as well
as to his laborious industry.

His character had thus been pronounced stainless
by men of unimpeachable honour ; but not
till he had languished for nearly three sears under
the blight of disapproval ; deprived of his appointments,
civil and military ; doing journeyman's work
as a subaltern in his regiment, and losing all chance
of promotion. In his despair of being righted, he
was on the point of setting out for Calcutta to
make a desperate and final appeal for justice at
head-quarters, when there came news of the outbreak
at Meerut, and the Commander-in-chief at
once appointed the disgraced officer to an important
position on his staff". George Leland thus regained in
one leap all that he had lost. India was in a blaze,
and no sane administrator could afford to lose the services
of a man of tried courage, ability, and influence.

From that hour to the present his course had
been marked by daring, capacity, and success. A
man whose spirits never flagged in the face of the
foe, who seemed to catch inspiration from danger
and difficulty, and to be happiest when the situation
was most desperate ; quick in expedient,
fearless in execution, like him of Ascot and Glassy,
a born leader of men,  such was the Major Leland
of Leland's Horse, now famous from Calcutta to
Cabal, whose story Barbara read from day to day
in the letters of war-correspondents.

This and much more Barbara read of her lost
lover; she read and wept over the story of his
daring, his recklessness of danger, and inexorable
tenacity in the very jaws of death.

Now, clear and vivid as the fiery writing on the
wall in days of old, the words of George Leland's
letter stood out before Barbara with new force and
meaning. This was the disgrace he had told her of,
this unsifted suspicion of a misuse of public money ;
this was why he had told her that the bond between
them must be broken. He had seen himself a disgraced
and ruined man, all chances of fortune and

promotion gone from him, and his first impetuous
act had been to set her free.

But my letter, my letter !' she said to herself
despairingly. * Surely that was clear enough ; surely
I told him plainly enough that I could trust in his
honour against all the world ; that I feared no evil
fortune, would shrink from no disgrace. And he did
not even answer my letter !'

And then, freed from the humiliating idea that
he had flung her off in order to marry some one else,
she began to wonder if by any chance that letter, on
which so much depended, had gone astray. Yet why
should that be "? Of all her previous letters, two in
every month, not one had ever been lost. Why
should that one fateful letter have miscarried ?

No ; he had doubtless received her poor little
letter, but having made up his mind he thought it
kinder not to reply. He had resolved on this act of
self-abnegation. He would let no woman share his
evil fortune. And so he had kept silence, and had
broken her heart.

She thought  with what deep regret !  of what
her life mijrht have been had he dealt frankly with

her, had he told her his circumstances, and left her
free to make her own choice. What bliss to have
gone out to him, to have married him before the face
of his slanderers and enemies, to have consoled him
in those dark days of unmerited disgrace ! fate
ten thousand times happier than her brilliant fortune
as Yyvyan Penrith's unloving wife ! She would have
faced all the dangers of those dreadful days yonder,
boldly, proudly, by his side ; fearing nothing so that
she might be near him in his hour of peril. She did
not know that while the husbands were wearing out
their hearts in the desultory pot-shot warfare before
the walls of Delhi, and were rather besieged than
besiegers, the wives were far away in the hills, waiting
for the post that might bring them tidings of
woe.

So the autumn days grew sharper with the chill
breath of coming winter ; the last sheaves were garnered,
and Mark Penrith was tramping, gun in
hand, over the brittle stubble, attended by his last
failure in lemon-and-white setters  a dog of loveliest
disposition, and the most delightful creature by
the fireside, but feeble in his ideas, and irresolute in

his conduct with fur and feather. Miss Penrith had
departed on her Plymouth pilgrimage, and Vyvyan
had assented, not too graciously, to a third annual
visit from Mrs. Trevornock and Flossie.

Flossie is so fond of you,' Barbara said coaxingly,
when she had discussed the invitation to her
mother and sister ; ' she has never forgotten your
kindness in giving us all those theatre-tickets.'

Has she not ? No ; nor have I ever forgotten
those days,' Vyvyan answered, with a gloomy look.

There had been a settled moodiness in his manner
and speech for a long time, and sweet words and
gentle looks had lost their power to charm or soothe
him. The proud sense of possession, the delight of
having conquered, had worn off ; and he felt that in
marrying a wife who did not even profess to love him
he had made a bad bargain. He forgot the terms of
their betrothal, and resented his wife's indifference
as a wrong for which he had been unprepared. Perhaps,
had they two been alone together, things might
have worn gradually round to a pleasant state of
feeling on his side and on Barbara's ; but the pious
Priscilla was a constant monitor, a perpetual explanatory

note, setting forth the glaring fact of this young
wife's unworthiness.

Once, when driven somewhat hard in argument by
her brother, who had suddenly demanded to be informed
what it was she had to blame in his wife, Miss
Penrith replied meekly,

If you find no fault in her, Vyvyan, I am not
going to find fault. She is neither respectful nor
agreeable in her manner to me, but that is a minor
detail. Perhaps she wishes me away ; indeed, I have
no doubt she does ; but so long as my presence here
adds to your happiness'  Yyvyan gave a faint groan,
but he was standing with his back to his sister,
staring absently out of window, and she may not
have heard him  ' I shall remain, at any sacrifice of
my own feelings. No, Vyvyan, I have no fault to
find with Mrs. Penrith. So long as you can trust
her, so long as you approve of her conduct, my lips
are sealed.'

And if I disapproved, if your lips were unsealed,
what could you find to say against her ?' demanded
Vyvyan hotly. ' Isn't her life quiet enough and
humdrum enough to please any one? Why, the

cattle yonder, dragging the plough over the ridge of
the hill, hardly do their duty in a more methodical
manner than my wife. Is she not obedient, gentle,
attentive to me even, in her quiet way ?'

I admit all that, Tyvj-an, and if you are satisfied
I have not a word to say,' replied Miss Penrith,
with an air of self-abnegation that made her brother
feel murderous.

'But I tell you that if I were dissatisfied you
could find no word to say against her,' he retorted.
Her conduct does not admit of blame.'

Negatively, I admit, she is an admirable person.
She does not turn your house out of windows or
squander your money ; but, if it had been my lot in
life to marry, I should have expected something more
from a husband than you have ever received from
Barbara.'

Here the argument ended. It was the only actual
dispute that had ever arisen between Miss Penrith
and her brother on the subject of his married life.
In a general way the lady had restricted herself to
innuendoes and gentle hints which could hardly be
met in argument. They were apt to fall unheeded

VOL. II. H

on her brother's ear at the moment, and to crop up
in his memory unpleasantly afterwards, like some
foul weed whose feathery imperceptible germ the
light summer wind has wafted across the country.

And now Miss Penrith had gone forth, with two
huge trunks and a bonnet-box, to adorn and dazzle
the serious circles of Plymouth and its environs, and
Barbara had her mother and sister with her once
again. But these days were not like those peaceful
days of the past, when she had given herself up unreservedly
to the delight of her mother's society. She
was weighed down with ever-present fears of what
might happen in India.

The papers of late had been silent about Major
Leland. The public attention was concentrated upon
the sufferers at Lucknow, and the general who was
marching to their relief. That one hero, who represented
for Barbara all that earth held of valour,
seemed to have disappeared from the stage where this
awful tragedy was being acted. She did not know
that he too was travelling towards the beleaguered
city, with his sturdy band, accomplishing marvels of
valour on the way. He was but one brave soldier

among many. She could only wait, dumb, helpless,
fearful lest, on some bitter never-to-be-forgotten day,
she should see his name in the list of the slain.

Not a word did Mrs. Trevornock or Flossie say of
Major Leland, though they could hardly have missed
the story of his deeds in the daily papers. With a
laudable caution they avoided all mention of the
Indian Mutiny, though it was the one absorbing
thought in the minds of men and women at this
time. Mrs. Trevornock and her daughter behaved
as if there had been no such thing  as if Campbell
and Havelock had never lived, and Lucknow had
never been heard of. There had been discovered
during the last week the hideous evidence of one of
those mysterious crimes which sometimes appal
society ; and Flossie would talk of no public event
save this ghastly discovery of a carpet-bag containing
human remains. She dwelt and enlarged upon
this horrible fact with a ghoul like relish. She
brought it forth immediately that public matters
were spoken of. Breathe but the name of Sir Colin
Campbell, waft but a sigh towards yonder victims at
Lucknow, and Flossie flourished her carpet-bag.

Do you think lie was a foreign spy ?' she asked,
when Vyvyan had enlivened a silent dinner-table by
some gentle droppings from the last batch of Indian
news.

A foreign spy ? Havelock ? No, he's the son of
a Sunderland shipbuilder.'

*I mean the poor thing in the carpet-bag,' explained
Flossie. * There must have been a motive,
you know. His poor remains wouldn't have been
stuck on an abutment of Waterloo Bridge unless
somebody had wanted to get rid of him. I think he
must have been a spy.'

What a morbid interest you take in that horrid
murder, supposing it really was a murder !' said
Vyvyan.

Supposing, indeed !' ejaculated Flossie ; ' of
course it was a murder  a diabolical murder. It
quite aggravates me when people try to explain it
into nothing. I know that very abutment on that
very bridge,' she added, with an air of superiority.

We had a murder once in our parts,' said Mark,
as if it were something to be proud of ; ' but it's a
long time ago. The poor fellow who was murdered

was a Camelot man, and he was going home from
market after having sold some cattle, and he was set
upon and murdered by two fellows whom he had been
kind to. His brother was a lieutenant in the navy.
His ship was coming home from Barbadoes at the
time, and he dreamed that he saw his brother lying
wounded and bloody on the Camelot road. The
dream made him uneasy for a day or so, but he put
aside the thought of it as foolishness ; and when his
ship came into Plymouth Sound the first boat that
boarded her brought a halfpenny broadsheet with the
dying speech and confession of the murderers of poor
Harry Denmark.'

Flossie was deeply interested in this brief summary
; and henceforward, when Yyvyan and his brother
showed any disposition to discuss the Mutiny,
she overwhelmed them both with questions about
that interesting murder on the Camelot road.

One day, when Barbara and her mother were
alone together, the troubled heart found relief in a
sudden burst of confidence. *

Mother,' she said, * I know now why George
gave me up.'

'What!' cried Mrs. Trevornock, with a scared
look. ' Surely he has not written to you ?'

No, dear. But he has behaved like a hero, and
people have been writing about him. He was most
unjustly treated ; his honour, and his honesty even,
were impeached; and, stung by the injustice he suffered,
hopeless of future prosperity, he wrote to release
me. It was nobly meant ; but, mother, he
ought to have known me better ! And I wrote to
him. I told him  '

She broke down at the thought of that useless
letter. Mrs. Trevornock was also weeping. Mother
and daughter mingled their tears.

But, my dearest, my beloved one,' sobbed the
mother, * think how good Providence has been to you,
how merciful God has been to me. How could I
have endured my life if you had been in India at this
dreadful time ? I must have died of the torture of
suspense, the agony of waiting for news. And now
you are so happily placed : mistress of this noble old
house, one of the richest women in Cornwall, your
own carriage and horses, your own ponies, every conceivable
luxury  '

Don't, don't, mother !' cried Barbara desperately;
'don't congratulate me; it is too bitter!'

On one of those autumnal days when white mist-wreaths
were curling up from the marshy hollows on
the moor and dark clouds were hanging about the
tors, Vyvyan Penrith drove his dog-cart across the
hills to the quarries. These quarries lay in a hollow
of the cliff, close to the sea  a wild inaccessible
spot as seen from the beach below, but approached
easily enough by the narrow winding road that hugged
the coast as far as King Arthur's castle yonder,
and into unknown regions beyond.

Mark was sitting at his desk in his private office
a mere den of a room, with a single window looking
straight into a slaty chaos. He was not labouring
with any excessive industry ; indeed at the moment
of his brother's entrance he was sitting with
his elbows on the table, chewing a stump of lead-pencil
and staring moodily at empty space.

Business no brighter ?' asked the Squire
curtly.

Not one whit.'

Well, I've been thinking over our last conversation,
and I've made up my mind.'

About what ?' asked Mark, roused to sharp attention.


I'll have the books examined by an accountant.
Nothing like the educated brain for grasping a difficulty.'


Do you suppose  ' began Mark, starting to his
feet.

I cast no imputation upon your good faith,
Mark ; but for the last three years I have felt that
things have been drifting into muddle. Muddle in
business matters is a thing I detest. I'm no accountant
myself  indeed, though I'm a pretty good
farmer, I'm afraid I'm a bad man of business 
and I begin to suspect that you, whom I once
thought an oracle, are not much better. So I've
written to a fellow I know in London to comedown
here, and go steadily through the quarry accounts
for the last ten years. He was educated
as an accountant, though he is now in a solicitor's
office, and he's as sharp as a needle. I expect
him at Place this evening ; so you can just put

the books into my trap, and I'll take them home
with me.'

The books !' faltered Mark, staring confusedly
at his brother.

Ay, man, the bocks. What else is there for an
accountant to look over ? You can bring as many
vouchers, or anything else, as you please. I want
the whole business put shipshape, so that I may
know how little or how much I am getting out of the
quarries. I tell you I want the books for the last
ten years !' he repeated, aggravated by Mark's helpless
air. ' Here, I'd better get them myself.'

The books were in an iron safe, let into the wall
just behind Mark's chair. It happened that the key
was in the safe, and the door ajar; for Mark had
been poring over his ledger that afternoon.

Yyvyan flung open the safe-door, and brought
out the contents of the safe  a dozen or so of vellum-bound
account-books.

If you've done your day's work you may as well
drive home with me,' said Vyvyan, when Mark had
locked the empty safe and put the key in his pocket.

Yes, I'll come with you,' answered Mark.

THE GENTLEMAN IN QUESTION.

The aid which Vyvyan Pen ruth had called in,
seemingly by some sudden whim, was that of Mr.
Trevornock's articled clerk, Mr. Maulford. Lewis
Maulford had begun the serious business of life in
an accountant's office, at fourteen years of age. He
had shown so marked a capacity for business that
at two-and-twenty he was junior partner in the
flourishing young firm to which he had attached
himself. It was a new firm, a house not deeply
rooted into the very soil of the City, bound and
interwoven with the very life of the commercial
world by the traditions of ages, the repute of a dozen
generations. It was a young house, and an adventurous
house; and its name was generally to be
seen associated with financial shipwrecks of a doubtful
character. But the firm made money, and went
its way rejoicing, the three partners viewing with

each other in the smartness of their general turnout,
from the white hat bought at Melton's the day
before the Derby, to Milliner's newest and lightest
thing in dog-carts. Every day in life was a half-holiday
for this lively young firm ; they worked
short hours and made plenty of money ; till one day
it occurred to a disputatious and suspicious creditor
that the young firm were holding rather too tightly
to the assets of a certain bankrupt estate. Then
came investigation, a broad charge of embezzlement,
a general sifting of things, and closed shutters
at the neat offices near Hartford-court. One of the
senior partners sailed for New York; the other,
whose domestic entanglements were serious, blew
his brains out. Mr. Maulford took matters in a
widely different spirit. He determined to live it
down. With this view he went boldly about the
City, representing himself as a dupe and a victim.
Had he not invested his widowed mother's savings
in the firm, and was not that poor lady now face to
face with the workhouse, unless he could get into
some kind of berth that would enable him to maintain
her? That widowed parent of Lewis Maulford's

was his trump card. He always played her in an
emergency.

He gave so much valuable information about the
missing books of the exploded firm that he made
himself useful and necessary ; and with the progress
of time the idea became general that Maulford was
an honest man who had been more pigeon than crow.
True that he had worn three-guinea hats and driven
a smart dog-cart, and had enjoyed life at Epsom and
Ascot ; but he had done it all in innocence, not
knowing that he was battening upon the assets due
to defrauded tradesmen. He was so young, pleaded
his friends. He was old enough to know better,
urged his enemies.

Such had been Lewis Maulford's position when
he accepted a situation as clerk with Mr. Trevor-neck,
on the condition that his employer should,
after a year or two of faithful service, give him his
articles. He had now been five years with Mr.
Trevornock, and was qualified to begin business on
his own account, but seemed in no hurry to do so.
However small were his earnings at the office in
Gray's Inn, where, according to Flossie, a client was

rather the exception than the rule, they seemed to
suffice for him and his widowed mother, a lady almost
as invisible as Mrs. Harris.

I expect a visitor at dinner to-day,' Mr. Penrith
said to his wife, just before he set out for the quarries.

Indeed, Yyvyan ! Is it any one I know?' asked
Barbara.

Yes; you know something of him. It is Maul-ford,
your father's clerk.'

'He here!'

Yes. You look vexed. He doesn't come exactly
as a guest ; though, as there's no decent inn
nearer than Stockport or Camelot, he may stop here
for a few days. He is coming to do a little bit of
business for me. I'm sorry you dislike him.'

I do very much dislike him,' Barbara answered
frankly, ' though I really have no reason for doing
so. He has always been extremely civil to Flossie
and me  rather obtrusively civil  and perhaps that
is why she and I  '

Regard him with unmitigated abhorrence,' said
Flossie, who was present. ' Spiders, snakes, cockroaches,
and Maulfords are my especial aversion.'

Hard upon a man who lias by your own admission
done nothing to offend you,' remonstrated
Yyvyan, looking down at his sister-in-law as if she
were some curious foreign bird in an aviary, whose
habits he had not yet begun to understand.

He has done everything to offend us. He is
sly, he is false, he is a sneak, he is a schemer, he is
the image of Uriah Heap, and he has had the audacity
to pity us, and to let us know it. However, I
am rather glad he will see Barbara in a grand old
house of her own, with men-servants and a carriage.
He can't pretend to pity her now.'

'I hope not,' said Vyvyan, looking glum.

Seven o'clock came, and the dinner-bell, which
rang in a cupola over the hall, and might almost
have been heard on the top of Brownwilly. The St.
Columb coach had dropped Mr. Maulford at the gates
of Place, and he had walked modestly across the so-called
park, carrying his carpet-bag. He had had
just enough time to dress for dinner, and his black
clothes and white tie put Vyvyan and his brother to
shame in their coarse gray and hob-nailed shoes.

When Lewis Maulford went down to the ,

sleek, smiling his blandest smile, he found
her whom he had hoped to find there, alone. The
room was half in shadow, half in the warm ruddy
light of a wood fire, and Barbara was standing on the
hearth, a solitary figure, her foot on the low fender,
her eyes looking downward at the burning logs. She
wore the black-yelyet gown which Flossie had helped
her to choose ; rich old lace, her aunt Sophia's gift,
at throat and wrists ; and a black-enamel locket,
heart-shaped, with a true lover's knot in diamonds,
a jewel that her husband had bought her in Paris.
She had held it one of her duties as a wife to dress
herself becomingly when she sat at her husband's
table. However low her spirits had sunk, however
heavily the burden of existence had weighed upon
her, she had never assumed a neglected air, never
allowed herself to drift into carelessness of the outward
shows and decencies of life.

Mr. Maulford fell back a pace or two with a look
of surprise when his hostess turned and faced him
in the warm light of the oak logs. She had changed
much since he had last seen her. The girl had
blossomed into the woman. The grave dignity of

her manner took him by surprise. He had expected
to find a fretful disappointed girl, weary of a monotonous
and empty life, and with weariness and disappointment
stamped upon her faded beauty. He
saw a proud woman, grave with the gravity of one
whose whole life had been sobered by a deep sorrow,
but not fretful, not discontented. A grand soul
shone out of those lovely eyes, a soul that had grown
strong in suffering.

She acknowledged his entrance with a bow which
was politely distant.

*I expected to find Mr. Penrith here,' he said,
with a less comfortable sense of his own superiority
to humanity in general than he was wont to feel.

He is sometimes a little late for dinner when
he has been driving far. I don't suppose he will
keep us long.'

Here Flossie came rustling in, dressed in a
black-silk gown all over crimp flounces, and a
sticking-out petticoat, the precursor of crinoline.
She acknowledged Mr. Maulford's greeting with a
bend that would have been haughty in a Spanish
Infanta, which small insolence Mr. Maulford immediately

jotted down in the debtor and creditor
account that he kept against his acquaintance.

Flossie's appearance was in sometime a relief.
It made conversation easier with Barbara, who was
still standing alone by the fireside.

Your father wished to be affectionately remembered
to you, Mrs. Penrith,' said Maulford.

And I've no doubt he wished to be affectionately
forgotten by me,' remarked Flossie.

My father is very well, I hope ?' said Barbara,
with forced politeness.

He is enjoying excellent health.'

Here entered Mrs. Trevornock in a smart cap,
glowing with pride at the idea that her husband's
articled clerk, who doubtless knew of her small
anxieties in the past, should behold her daughter
mistress of this historical mansion.

Awhile she was greeting Mr. Maulford, with
more courtesy than he had received from her
daughters, Vyvyan and his brother appeared in their
gray coats and thick boots, having washed their hands
hurriedly in the down-stairs den where the Squire
kept books, guns, sticks, whips, and cattle medicines.

VOL. II. I

How do you do, Maulford ? Hope you had a
pleasant journey down ?'

I had a long one said Maulford, smiling.

eyes, it's a longish way. Mr. Maulford, my
brother Mark. I want you two to be friendly and
useful to each other ;' and Mr. Penrith offered his
arm to his mother-in-law, and walked off to the
dining-room, leaving the others to follow as they
pleased.

Maulford immediately impounded Mrs. Pen-ruth,
and Mark gave his arm to Flossie, his usual
custom.

Is it cold on the moor ?' she asked, looking at
him as they crossed the lamplight hall. ' You're
not looking well.'

Cold !' he echoed discontentedly. ' It's biting ;
a damp creepy cold that freezes your marrow

You look as if yours was frozen,' said Flossie.

Their dinner usually was a somewhat silent
meal, save for abrupt gushes of talk from Flossie
or Mrs. Trevornock ; but Mr. Maulford seemed as
bent upon making conversation as if he had been
a professed wit invited for that end.

He talked of Indian affairs  men could talk
and think of hardly anything else in London, he
said.

'And that dreadful carpet-bag murder,' interjected
Flossie. * Everybody was talking of that
when we left home.'

Then Camberwell must be vastly behind the
times. That was a nine days' wonder which I
thought was worn threadbare.'

Such a mysterious thing,' urged Flossie. ' Nothing
so di-dreadful has happened since the time of
Lucretia Borgia, when the nobility were always
dropping each other into canals, and tying each
other in sacks ; and one couldn't eat one's dinner
in peace because of a horrid Council of Ten waiting
round the corner to stab one ; or a Vehmgericht
sitting in judgment in a dark cellar, ready to hand
one over to a masked executioner  '

Here the speaker faltered for want of breath,
and Mr. Maulford took up the thread of his discourse
about the Mutiny. He talked of Havelock
and Colin Campbell, of Lucknow and Cawnpore,
of the dread uncertainty which still surrounded

all things. And then he harked back to the
storming of Delhi, and the men who had taken
part in the siege. He dwelt on the long period
of waiting; a handful of English officers, at the
head of a small army chiefly composed of Sikhs and
Afghans, who might at any moment revolt, encamped
in a pestilential spot in the hottest season
of the year, and yet, as by a miracle, preserved
alike from pestilence and insurrection. He talked
of Wilson and Baird Smith, of Brigadier General
Nicholson's untimely fate, of the blowing up of the
Cashmere gate in broad daylight in the teeth of
the foe, and the fourteen days' hard fighting, foot to
foot and hand to hand, before the city was won.

Barbara listened, pale, breathless, her eyes fixed
on the speaker, waiting for the name which instinct
told her he meant presently to pronounce.

He knows he is torturing me,' she told herself,
and he is doing it with deliberate malice.'

*I'm glad they spared the old king's life,' said
Mr. Maulford. * He was little more than a tool,
at worst. That murder of the princes was a brutal
thing.'

Princes ? Do you mean the young princes
in the Tower ?' asked Flossie, plunging eagerly
into the conversation, as she had done a few minutes
before with her carpet-bag.

Dinner was finished, and the servants had left
the room. Old-fashioned diamond-cut decanters
were circulating old-fashioned port and sherry.
Flossie was peeling a wintry pear, and Mark was
cracking walnuts with an air of gloomy abstraction.
Vyvyan sat back in his chair, and sipped his port,
languidly interested in the Mutiny.

*I mean the murder of the king's son, nephew,
and grandson by Major Leland,' said Mr. Maulford.
'There is nothing baser or more treacherous recorded
in Kings or Chronicles, and that's going
a long way.'

'Murder!' cried Barbara, her eyes flaming, her
cheeks deadly pale ; ' who has ever dared to call it
murder ! It was a sublime act of justice ; it was
brave, noble, done before the face of the enemy ; he
one of a handful of men among an armed rabble
of thousands ! Do you forget how he, with his
lieutenant and four troopers, rode into the garden

where there were three thousand armed men, and
made them lay down their arms? How he held
a crowd of six thousand at hay while he shot
those rebels, and told the people before he did it
what they had done and why they were to die?
How dare you call it murder ! No more righteous
act was ever done. You pretend to know all about
the siege of Delhi, and yet are so ignorant as to
misunderstand Major Leland's conduct !'

Upon my word  ' faltered Mr. Maulford.

Do you forget General Wilson's address to his
army before the siege ? For the rebels there was
to be no quarter. Women were to be spared,
and children ; but there was to be no mercy for
the murderers of women and children. And if
there was to be no mercy for them, the rank and
file of rebellion, were these princes, their leaders
and captains, to be spared?'

They were prisoners ; they had surrendered.'

Unconditionally. He would accept no other
surrender. They knew what they had to expect.
Had he faltered, he and his men would have been
massacred before the gate, cut down by the mob, and

his prisoners rescued. He knew that. It was his
duty to take them alive or dead. He did his duty,
nobly, bravely. It was not in his nature to be cruel.'

Good God I' ejaculated Mr. Maulford suddenly,

I forgot you knew him. I beg jour pardon, Mrs.
Penrith. Upon my honour the name had slipped
my memory, and in discussing public affairs  '

Yyvyan turned upon him brusquely. He had
been watching his wife, and listening to her indignant
protest, surprised at her agitation.

Why do you apologise to my wife ?' he asked.

0, I see ; this Major Leland is a friend of hers.'

They are Somersetshire people,' exclaimed the
intrepid Flossie, as if that accounted for everything ;

his mother was a clergyman  I mean his father was
a widow who married a cher  '

I understand,' said Yyvyan, heedless of the eager
Flossie, looking slowly from his-wife to Maulford and
back again. ' Leland ! I knew you had an Anglo-indian
acquaintance in past years, but I never heard
the name before. And so the gentleman is a hero ?'

He is a noble creature,' exclaimed ]\[rs. Trevor-neck,
her eyes filling with remorseful tears, ' and I

am proud of having known him. He was very kind
to us once  when he hoard  when we  saw a good
deal of him.'

Salmon, strawberries, gloves, grouse, ribbons,
partridges, theatres, lobsters,' repeated Flossie inwardly.


Humph !' muttered Vyvyan, massacring filberts
with a savage strength of hand, and looking wrathfully
at his wife. ' I had no idea the gentleman in
question was such a distinguished personage.'

HEXEREI UND Sheltered.*

Mr. Maulford began his examination of Mark's
books, with a view to the preparation of a balance-sheet,
which should show Yyvyan, in a succinct and
comprehensive manner, the state of affairs at the
quarries : what he had been making in the past, and
how it was that the gains of the past had dwindled to
the losses of the present.

I am not a man to carry on a loss,' Mr. Penrith
told his brother at the breakfast-table, on the morning
after the accountant's arrival. * If the quarries
cease to pay me, I shall shut them up at a day's
notice. I am not going on digging slate, which
nobody wants to use, for the sake of employing
labour.'

Mark looked harassed and uneasy, as he naturally
might, seeing that his occupation, with the
three hundred a year he earned by it, was in jeopardy.

Before Lewis Maulford retired to the study, where

his work was to be begun, he took an opportunity of
speaking to Barbara, in the embrasure of a window,
out of earshot of the rest.

I am so sorry for my stupidity at dinner yesterday,'
he said humbly. *I give you my honour that
I had forgotten  '

'You tell me so,' she answered, looking at him
with deliberate scorn, * and I am obliged to believe
you. There is no occasion to apologise  unless it
were for having slandered Major Leland. His name
is not tabooed here.'

*But I so deeply regret having wounded you  '
he protested.

It is not in your power to do that,' she answered
proudly. * Pray say no more about it.'

And from this time forward she never addressed
him by word or look, save when some direct interrogation
on his side forced her to speak to him.

Not in my power to wound you, sweet one !' he
said to himself more than once that day, as he bent
over Mark's ledgers. ' Take care that it is not in
my power to stab you to the heart's core. That was
only a playful thrust yesterday. Wait and see.

Your South American savage, the free child of the
forest, has arrows so light that his breath can blow
them through a reed, hut their points are steeped ina
poison which makes the slightest scratch deadly.
Look out for my poisoned arrows, my queen.'

The investigation of the books and preparation of
the balance-sheet proved a longer task than Mr.
Penrith had supposed. On the day after his arrival
at Place, Lewis Maulford transferred himself to
homelier quarters at the King's Arms, Camelot ; but
the ledgers and other documents were left in Yyvyan's
study, and it was there the accountant's work was
done.

Whatever dislike Mark might in the first instance
have felt to having his books audited by a stranger,
he had evidently reconciled his mind to the fact ; for
he treated Mr. Maulford with unusual courtesy and
friendliness, hung about him in an almost affectionate
manner, played billiards with him in the stuffy
billiard-room of the inn, and introduced him to the
choice spirits of Camelot society, who, at Mark's
instigation, received the foreigner with open arms.

Mark's friendliness went even further than this ;

for when Lewis Maulford had been quartered at the
King's Arms for a little less than a week, Mark proposed
a cigar in the open air after a closely-won
game at billiards, in which native talent had succumbed
to the alien's more finished play ; and, after
smoking a couple of cigars under the bright wintry
moon, Mark brought his companion to a standstill
before the white gate of the cottage on the St. Columb
road.

Come in and rest a bit,' he said; *it's dismal
out of doors.'

Friend of yours live here ?' inquired Mr. Maul-ford
innocently.

His host at the King's Arms had told him all
that Camelot could tell of the lady in the cottage,
and had given him a good many of Camelot's speculations
upon the subject.

Yes, I'm pretty much at home here,' answered
Mark, with a laugh. * If the lady of the house is in
an amiable mood, I'll give you a better glass of Hollands
than you could get at old Lanherne's.'

'IV: echoed Maulford. at will be our fault if
the lady isn't amiable.'

Humph !' muttered Mark. * You think you can
put a woman in a good temper, whether or no ?
You're a bachelor.'

Aren't you one ?'

Well, yes, of course I'm a bachelor. It wouldn't
do for my brother to suppose I was anything else.
But it isn't easy for a man to go through life without
some kind of entanglement. I've not kept myself as
free from difficulty of that sort as I might have done
if I'd been wise. Yet you can hardly blame me,
when you see a fellow of Yyvyan's age go and marry
a penniless girl for the sake of her pretty face.'

And a girl who was over head and ears in love
with another man,' retorted Maulford. 'That's the
worst part of the business.'

0, come now ; she has been married two years,
and she has behaved uncommonly well.'

I should like to know how a woman could behave
ill in the middle of a Cornish moor, unless she eloped
with her butlers retorted Maulford, as Mark opened
the cottage-door.

The parlour where Mark had tossed about the
sofa-pillows in utter dejection on the night following

his brother's home-coming looked bright and cheery
on this winter evening. A good fire burned in the
bright little grate, fender and fire-irons shone with
much polishing. There was a tea-tray on the table
with the best tea-things, if Mr. Maulford could only
have known it and fully appreciated the honour done
him ; and on the mahogany chiffonier the customary
ornaments of Bohemian glass and Derbyshire spa
had been removed to make room for a second tray
with a cut-glass spirit-decanter, a sugar-basin, and
tumblers. A noisy copper kettle with an opal-glass
handle spluttered gaily on a brass trivet ; a dish of
muffins basked in the fire-glow ; and beside the fire
sat a buxom little woman with keen black eyes,
rosy cheeks, a resolute mouth and chin, and the
glossiest hair Mr. Maulford had ever seen. She
wore a bright blue-silk gown, which fitted her well-rounded
figure to perfection, and her collar was
fastened with Mark's photograph mounted in a heavy
gold brooch.

'Mr. Maulford, Mrs. Peters.'

Lewis Maulford took in the situation at a glance.
Mark's books had already given him a good deal of

information. Mark's character was easier to read
than a book. Mr. Maulford understood that he had
been invited here in order that the lady in blue, who
was shrewder than Mark, might sift him, and possibly
win him over to Mark's interests. He could
see that the blue lady was clever and self-assured,
her self-assurance being as six to one in proportion
to her cleverness. ,

I thought you'd like a cup of tea after being out
in the cold,' Mrs. Peters said gi-anxiously, as she
peeped into the teapot, with her glossy head on one
side.

'How smart you are !' exclaimed Mark, who had
no more tact than a hippopotamus.

You said you might drop in with a friend,' the
lady answered modestly, ' and I didn't want to be
caught a figure.'

You're never a figure,' muttered Mark ; ' catch
you at it ! '

'Never anything but a very pretty figure, I am
sure,' said Mr. Maulford gallantly.

Sugar and cream '?' murmured Mrs. Peters, bridling.


Mr. Maulford took sugar and cream. He declared
himself passionately addicted to tea, and at once put
Mark, who detested tea, at a disadvantage. He even
ate muffins, and behaved altogether as a man accustomed
to polite tea-parties. The conversation began
with stiffness, but soon waxed easy. After Camelot
and its surroundings had been discussed, in guide-book
phraseology, the talk grew more personal.

I suppose you've seen Mr. Penrith's wife since
you've come among us,' said the little woman; and
there was a sparkle in her hard black eyes which
informed Mr. Maulford that of all people who on
earth do dwell Mrs. Penrith was the most hateful
to Mrs. Peters.

0, yes, I've seen her. She is an old acquaintance
of mine.'

So Mark told me. And you knew her first
lover ?'

'Yes; I knew him too. I saw their parting,
poor things, when he went on board the P. and 0.
steamer. It was a touching scene.'

And then Mr. Maulford told the story of his
meeting with Barbara at Southampton, dwelling upon

the fact of her presence there with some significance,
as if it implied more than he cared to say.

Wasn't it rather a strange thing for a prudent
young woman to do ?' asked Mrs. Peters.

'Rather; hut the Trevornock girls have been
oddly brought up. Ths mother is what you would
call a character.'

Do you mean that she wears her bonnet tilted
over her forehead, and her petticoats up to her
ankles?' inquired Mrs. Peters.

'Xo, no. Her bonnets are right enough, and
nobody ever saw her ankles. But she has peculiar
ideas  has brought up her daughters in a free-and-easy
way, as if they had been young men.'

'Then I'm sorry for Mr. Penrith,' said Mrs.
Peters solemnly. ' I never have thought, from first
to last, that any good would come of such a marriage;
but after what you tell me  '

Here she shook her head vehemently, and lapsed
into silence, as if her presentiment of evil to come
were too terrible to be expressed. She opened the
parlour-door and rang a sharp littlehand-bell; whereat
a small apple-checked maiden appeared, who carried

VOL. II. K

off the tea-things, and then reappeared and set the
decanters and glasses on the table, swept up the
hearth, replenished the copper kettle out of a homelier
iron vessel, and generally made things comfortable.

When this damsel had retired Mrs. Peters resumed
the discussion of those family matters which
could not be spoken of before a servant.

I am very sorry for Mr. Penrith,' she said, ' but
I am sorrier still for Mark. It comes hard upon him,
poor fellow.'

Mr. Maulford, who followed her every thought,
pretended not to understand the drift of this speech.

In what way ?' he asked innocently.

'In every way. Hasn't he been led to think
himself his brother's heir for the last fifteen years ?
for it's as long ago that Vyvyan declared he should
never marry; and, indeed, his ways were the ways
of a confirmed bachelor. And after looking forward
to the estate for himself, or at any rate for his
children  '

Here Mark scowled and shook his head at the
fair speaker.

It's no use frowning at me, Mark. There's no

treason in saying that you counted on the estate for
yourself, and those that were to come after you 
there's no treason in saying you might have children ;
for you've as good a right to he the father of a family
as your elder brother has, and it's only your own
poor spirit that has kept you down. And I say, and
I will say, that it's hard upon you to lose everything,
after looking forward to it so long.'

Who says he has lost everything ?' asked Mr.
Maulford.

'Hasn't his brother married?'
True, but at present there's seems no likelihood
of a family.'

Don't tell me!' exclaimed Mrs. Peters contemptuously
; ' family or no family, the estate is lost
to Mark.'

'I beg your pardon. I happen, perhaps, to be
able to make a better estimate of Mr. Mark's chances
than he can himself; for I know more of Mr. Pen-ruth's
affairs. If the Squire should have no son to
inherit his estate and maintain the good old name in
the land where he and his forbears were born, you
may depend he'll not leave it away from his brother ;

unless, indeed, he should have some special ground
of quarrel with that brother, or some reason for
doubting his honour and honesty, which of course is
out of the question.'

Maulford emphasised these last words with a
searching look at Mark, who sat pale and downcast
in his corner by the fire, stirring his grog, and not
seeming to derive much comfort from that beverage.

0, never fear, she'll get round him,' said Mrs.
Peters, with a sarcastic laugh. * She married him
for his fortune, and she'll never give him any peace
till she makes sure of it all.'

I grant that it might be so, if she were a bright,
clever, capable woman, like some people I could
name,' replied the accountant, contemplating Mrs.
Peters with a bold admiring smile ; ' but she is not.
Her mind is wrapped up in the past, and the lover
she parted with at Southampton. Any affection she
can spare from him she lavishes on her mother.
That leaves cold comfort for Mr. Penrith. Do you
suppose he's satisfied or happy in his marriage?
When he was most ardent, in the very beginning of
things, he refused to make a will in his wife's favour.

Tom Trevornock pushed him hard enough, as hard
as he could venture, so as not to lose him. 'Xo,"
said Penrith ; " I shall make no new will yet awhile."
Your marriage cancels the old one," says Trevor-neck.
"Never mind that. If I have a son, he'll
inherit the land ; and if I have no children, things
may stand as they are. I've done enough for your
daughter in all conscience." Trevornock could hardly
gainsay him, you see, for he had settled an estate
worth eighteen thousand pounds on the young lady.'

The Hallworthy estate,' growled Mark. ' It cost
my great-grandfather fifteen thousand. She has only
a life interest in it, I suppose ?'

No ; it is settled on her, and her children after
her. Your brother has power of appointment, and
can do what he likes with the reversion, in the event
of there being no children. So you see, my dear
madam,' pursued Mr. Maulford cheerily, ' your friend
Mark is by no means in such bad case as you have
supposed. Unless he should by some misadventure,
or some fault, prove himself unworthy to be trusted
with the estate, unworthy to bear the good old name,
he is safe to inherit the land.*

Provided Mrs. Penrith has no children,' said
Mrs. Peters. * She has been married only two years
and a half. It's early days to count upon her having
no family.'

True,' sighed Mr. Maulford, who affected to be
bound up in the fortunes of his new friends.

*If Mr. Penrith were to die suddenly, now,'
speculated Mrs. Peters. A gleam as of hope lit up
Mark's anxious face, flashed from his heavy eyes,'
and was gone, leaving a dull blank. ' If he were to
drop down in a fit  of course I'm not wishing such
a thing, but it would be a godsend to Mark. But
men of his build seldom go off like that.'

It was a curious suggestion, and Mr. Maulford
looked curiously at the speaker.

I shrewdly suspect you're Mark's wedded wife,
my lady,' he said to himself, *and I'm uncommonly
glad you're not mine.'

*I SHALL-rate: to DOCTOR MY Balance-sheet.'

After that first evening Mr. Maulford's visits at
the cottage in St. Columb road were so frequent that
it may be said he spent all his leisure there, and
used the King's Arms only as a shelter for the night.

Mrs. Peters provided snug little dinners for Mark
and his new friend, and there was a perennial flow
of spirits-antipater of an evening. The veil with
which Mark concealed the exact nature of his domestic
arrangements from Mr. Maulford was of the most
diaphanous tissue  a mere summer-evening vapour.

If I didn't think you were a fellow to be trusted,
I should never have asked you in yonder,' said Mark
one afternoon, with a jerk of his head towards the
homely stone cottage, where the last crysanthemums
were fading amidst the chill haze of a November
twilight.

You have been wise to trust me,' answered the
other, slowly pulling at his cigar with a grave busi-

ness-like countenance. * If you were anything but
candid and straightforward  to me  I couldn't see
my way to help you ; and, by Jove, you want a good
deal of help !'

How do you mean ?' faltered Mark.

He had let his cigar go out, and was struggling
feebly with a fusee, the image of helplessness, his
large sunburnt hand tremulous with agitation.

You know how I mean. Haven't I to work out
a balance-sheet which won't compromise you  if I
can ? And do you suppose I find it easy to do it ?'

The builders have been so backward in their
settlements of late  ' began Mark.

Backward, indeed ! It seems to me that nobody
has paid you anything for the last two years. You
must have a sheaf of dishonoured acceptances in
your safe : unless you've melted the bills, and  '

Made use of the money ?' faltered Mark. ' I
have; there's no good in denying it  to you. I'm
in a hole, and you must get me out of it. You're a
splendid man of business ; you've a clear brain,
which I haven't; you can square things with my
brother. You say I'm pretty safe to come into the

estate by and by. If ever I do, I'll pay you a
hundredfold for any service you can do me now.'

But how can I, as an honest man, pretend not
to see facts that are staring me in the face ? If I
doctor my balance-sheet as your books have been
doctored  or in a very different style, rather ; for I
should be sorry to make such a clumsy job of anything
I took in hand  how can I look in your
brother's face? how can I reconcile my conscience
to'

Easily. It will be a Christian act to get a poor
beggar out of a scrape. Doesn't the Gospel always
lean kindly to sinners ? It isn't the rich man or the
Pharisee that you are called upon to comfort or help,
but the poor kicked-about despised creatures  your
publicans and Magdalen. Stand by me, Maulford,
there's a good fellow,' pleaded Mark. *I shouldn't
have taken to you as I have if I hadn't felt from the
first that you where a friend. Stand by me, and I'll
stand by you. It isn't only what I can do in the
future, but if you want a fifty-pound note in the present,
why, you can have it. I  I've got an unmelted
acceptance in the safe, that's as good as a Bank of

England note. All you've got to do is to make your
balance-sheet right. What does it matter to my
brother if he's a thousand or two richer or poorer at
the end of the year ? His income at its lowest is
more than he can spend. He's always making some
kind of investment.'

But if the balance-sheet shows that the quarries
have been a dead loss for the last two years, he'll
shut up shop.'

No, he won't. That's a mere hrutum fulmen.
He'll grumble and growl ; but we must talk about
a revival in the building trade; and I'll be more
careful in future. Get me out of this scrape. Maul-ford,
and, as I am a man, I'll never tumble into
another.'

Maulford gave him a curiously contemptuous look
under cover of the November dusk.

If you were a man, I might believe you,' thought
the accountant ; ' but there's very little true manhood
about your limp self-indulgent nature, my friend.'

What have you done with all this money ?' he
asked presently. ' Our friend yonder seems a managing
little body ; she would hardly ruin a man.*

No, no, Molly is careful enough ; but a house
and family cost money, don't you know ; and, in
short, the whole thing has been a drag upon me.
And I've bought a horse now and then, and a dog or
two ; and I've been deucedly unlucky in horseflesh,
though I think I know a good thing when I see it as
well as any man in Cornwall.'

A little betting too, I suppose ?' suggested
Maulford.

Only a fiver or so on a race occasionally with
Nichols or Didcott.'

'I see. And billiards ?'

*Well, of course a man can't play billiards all
the year with the same set of fellows without betting
a little.'

Just to give an interest in the game ; I suppose
not. A man who lives all the year round in such a
place as Camelot ought to be forgiven a good deal,'
said Maulford indulgently. ' He ought to be forgiven
if he cuts his throat at the end of the first
twelvemonth,' he added inwardly.

What a weak creature it was, this younger
brother of the rugged unyielding Vyvyan !  another

t

temperament altogether. Soap-stone as compared
with granite. The same soil will produce both.

Such a man was destined by his very nature to
become the tool of unscrupulous astuteness, in the
person of Lewis Maulford.

The ex-accountant made a mental balance-sheet
for his own guidance. All that he had said of
Vyvyan's refusal to make a Will in his wife's favour
was strictly true. As things now stood, the elder
brother dying without a will, Mark must inherit the
land. But how long might the situation remain
thus favourable to Mark's interests ? A son might
be born, to oust the brother from all chance of succession.
Or the husband might be influenced to
leave the land to his wife. This was hardly likely,
Mr. Maulford thought, now that he had let in a
little light upon the husband's mind as to that
Indian lover of the lady's. Mr. Maulford might find
it necessary, or advantageous, to let in more light
by and by.

From Yyvyan there was no large reward to be
gained  merely a hireling's wages for a hireling's
work ; from Vyvyan's wife, nothing. But from this



malleable Mark how much profit a clever man might
extort, would Fate but transform this penniless
sinner into a wealthy landowner ! A man's gratitude
is but a poor thing to count upon ; and ready
Mark was with his promises now that he was in a
scrape, he might be equally ready to forget them
when he was out of it. There is no Lethe more
efficacious than the fountain in which we drown the
sense of obligation. But Mr. Maulford felt that if
he helped Mark now, he would have a much surer
hold upon him in the future than that airy virtue
gratitude. The man would be afraid of him.

'I shall make him my slave,' he said to himself.

I'll do my best to get you through your difficulties,'
he told Mark presently, ' if it were only for
the sake of that nice little lady yonder, who ought
not to suffer for your follies. It's no easy job, I can
tell you, and will tax my powers of management to
the uttermost. You have doctored your books, and
I shall have to doctor my balance-sheet.'

Mark grasped his hand feverishly.

God bless you!' he exclaimed; 'you're a true
Christian. You don't 20 on the other side of the

way, and leave the wounded traveller ; and you don't
kick him while he's down.'

Mr. Maulford smiled to himself in the dusk.

0, you compare yourself to the wounded traveller,
do you? I should have suggested a greater
likeness to the other party.'

The Samaritan ?' asked Mark.

No, the thieves.'

Don't be hard upon me,' pleaded Mark ; 'I'm
in your power.'

You must turn over a new leaf, you know,' said
Maulford. ' You'll have to show a very different
state of things when next I come to inspect the
books. I couldn't manage this matter for you a
second time.'

T know it, my dear fellow. Turn over a new
leaf! By Jove, I shall begin a new book. I'll
never buy another horse. I'll sell those I have. I'll
cut the old set at the King's Arms. I'll get some
ether crib for Molly  out of the way of all my old connections
 and send the young barbarians to school.'

That would be a step in the right direction 
if Mrs. Peters liked it.'

She wouldn't like it, perhaps,' said Mark
gloomily; *but she'd have to put up with it. I've
lived in fear and trembling long enough. I've had
no more peace of mind in my home, if you can call
that cottage yonder my home, than if I were living
in a powder-magazine. The explosion might come
any day.'

Do you think your brother would take it so
badly, if he knew all ?'

'He'd leave me a beggar. He'd never forgive
me  first, for doing what I have done yonder ; next,
for deceiving him. There's my sister too, as proud
as Lucifer. She'd egg him on.'

His own marriage is not a particularly brilliant
one.'

He has married a lady. Trevornock is a good
old name. Tom Trevornock is the only scamp in
that family.'

Well, you had better give all your attention to
making things as straight as you can at the quarries,
and trust to Providence for the rest.'

Providence !' growled Mark. ' Providence has
done precious little for me. Providence gave my

elder brother one of the finest estates in Cornwall,
and gave my sister her mother's fortune, while I
was left out in the cold.'

Come, now. Providence did you a good turn in
sending me your way. If a churlish pragmatical
fellow had been called in to examine those books,
where would you have been ?'

I should have been on my way to America,
most likely,' answered Mark moodily, as if doubtful
whether that transitional state might not have been
preferable to his present situation.

Leaving that poor little woman and her three
boys to shift for themselves ?'

She wouldn't shift long. She'd go to my
brother, and tell him the whole story.'

And what would he do ?'

Send her to the workhouse. You don't know
how hard he is.'

*He was soft enough about Miss Trevornock,'
said Maulford.

Yes, where his own fancy was caught. Every
man's character has its weak side, I suppose.'

AUNT Jolly.

Thanks to Lewis Maulford's skilful manipulation of
books and other documents, Mark came through the
furnace comparatively unscathed. Maulford, who
was too good a diplomatist to prove too much, admitted
to Yyvyan that his brother had been somewhat
lax in his management of things of late years ;
that he had given long credits somewhat recklessly ;
that he had trusted builders of insufficient capital ;
and that he would have to open his eyes a little
wider if he wished to be thought a good man of business.
But he contrived to balance this blame by
judicious praise. He harped upon Mark's conscientiousness,
his determination to make the quarry a
source of large profit in the future, and so to redeem
the errors of the past.

He has been hard hit, poor fellow, through his
kindness of heart,' said Maulford.

VOL. II. L

You mean that I've been liard hit. He loses
nothing when builders go bankrupt.'

He feels it more than you do.'

I don't think he can. I can spend money, or
give money, without a thought ; but if you rob me
you put a knife into me, and the wound rankles.
Well, Mark must show himself a better manager
within the next twelve months, and you must show
me a better balance-sheet next November, or I shall
shut up the quarries.'

I have no doubt there will be an improvement.
Mark has burnt his fingers.'

You mean that he has burnt my fingers. He
loses nothing. He'd think himself hardly used if I
were to stop his salary, though he has free quarters
in my house. But I'm afraid he has claims upon
his purse that are as discreditable as they are foolish
some low connection at Camelot. I have heard as
much.'

Better than to marry a horse-rider, or a  a barmaid,
 as some of your country squires have done.'

*A barmaid!' cried Vyvyan, aghast. 'A Pen-ruth
married to a barmaid ! Do you know that weare

one of the oldest families in Cornwall ? Do you
suppose because I wear homespun and clump-soles
that I have no pride of race ? I would never forgive
my brother if he degraded me. Let him degrade
himself, let him be the black sheep of the family,
and wallow in the gutter if he chooses, but let him
bring no low-born wife, no half-bred brats to Place.
One scamp in a family is like a dead branch on a
fine old tree, lopped and forgotten ; but a base graft,
a low marriage,  that is history. I could never
forgive that.'

These remarks were repeated at the cottage within
a few hours of their utterance.

Ah,' said Mrs. Peters, ' it's all very well for
him to bluster ; but if Mark were not such a coward
I'd have made things right long ago. I never saw
the man yet that I couldn't twist round my fingers
if I tried.'

Yet despite this assertion of power Mrs. Peters
brooded darkly on that speech of Yyvyan's, and contemplated
her triplet of chubby boys with a moody
look as the three young faces clustered round her in
the evening firelight. They were fine, healthy.

broad shouldered boys, from the four-year-old baby
to the youngster rising thirteen, and Mrs. Peters felt
that Fate was using them hardly.

*I suppose if Mark were to brazen things out
and tell the truth we should be beggars for the rest
of our lives,' she said to herself. *Yet it's hard to
live under a cloud. If the Squire were to fall down
in a fit, now, my sons would be in their right places
up yonder. How Camelot folks would stare ! And
those that have slighted me would be sorry, perhaps
!'

Mr. Maulford, having done his work, took his
reward and departed. Before leaving Cornwall he
made a point of seeing Barbara and her mother and
sister one morning, in order, as he said, to inquire
if he could carry any message to Mr. Trevornock, or
perform any commission for either of the three ladies.

If you could call in South-lane two or three
times a day, to see if the house is on fire, you would
be doing mother a favour,' said Flossie ; ' for she is
haunted by the most absurd fears about it, although
every stick of our furniture is insured in the Pelican,
or the Vulture, or some equally ridiculous bird.'

I could never replace the things I have had all
my life,' sighed Mrs. Trevornock.

I should hope not, indeed. You would get nice
new things instead. I'm sure a fire would he regeneration
: and I should feel grateful to Amelia if
she were to do any one of the idiotic acts you are
always picturing to yourself.'

No message for Mr. Trevornock ?' asked the
clerk.

X-n-othing : except that we shall be returning
to Camberwell in a fortnight faltered Mrs.
Trevornock.

He will be glad to know your movements.'

He might, if we were to move to some other
planet,' retorted Flossie. ' I don't think anything
less than that would interest him.'

'Indeed, you misunderstand him,' said Mr.
Maulford.

If I do I must be preternaturally obtuse, for he
has spoken very plainly.'

You don't know how fond and proud he is of
you.'

'No, I do not.'

Barbara sat by the fire reading throughout Mr.
Maulford's visit. She would acknowledge him as
neither friend nor guest. She spoke only when he
compelled her to speak, and even then she answered
him without looking up from her book.

If I had been a boot maker she could not have
been ruder,' he told himself, as he left the house.
Yet I need hardly trouble myself to be revenged.
She has enemies enough without me.'

Mrs. Trevornock and Flossie stayed till after
Christmas. It was happiness to Barbara to have
them with her at that old familiar time ; and it was
pleasant to Flossie, who took upon her hands the
task of Christmas decoration, to find herself hanging
up holly in ancestral halls, and giving orders to half
a dozen servants, all eager to do her bidding, for
the servants at Place liked this lively young lady.
True that she languished for a glimpse of the 
shops in all their Christmas bravery ; the
Repository, where the newest things in jewelry and
candlestick ornaments always came out at Christmas ;
the drapers' windows ablaze with feathers and flowers
and ribbons and evening gloves. But the novelty of

country-house life, even in so dull a house as Place,
was agreeable to her. Mark was gayer, too, after
Mr. Maulford's departure. He escorted Flossie and
his sister-in-law to see the hounds throw off at a
winds" spot among the wild hills, where they were
almost frozen in their pony-carriage before the business
of the day began* Flossie longed to follow the
hounds, and gave Mark several hints to that effect,
but to these he was impervious. He would have
liked well enough to have such a pleasant companion
for a long day's scamper over hill and valley, heather
and bog ; but iu a region where everybody knew
everybody else's business such indulgence would
have been fatal. The little woman at Camelot would
have heard of it, and those occasional glimpses of
domesticity which Mark allowed himself would have
been clouded over with strife.

While Mark was riding to hounds, companionless
save for such company as the field afforded, and was
doing his utmost to make his horses unsaleable before
the time came which he had fixed in his own
mind for selling them, the little woman at Camelot
wa-s contemplating life from a much graver standpoint.

Mark, having scrambled through his financial
difficulties  very much as he and Pepper scrambled
through a gap in a hedge, a good deal mauled
and scratched by hawthorn and bramble, and splashed
to the eyes with mud and duckweed  was beginning
to take life in his old easy way. He was not going
to get into a muddle again, lie told himself. He
would buy no more horses ; he would sell those he
had when the hunting season was over. They would
sell all the better as seasoned hunters. He would
give up billiards, and would cease to interest himself
in the turf. He would read the sporting-papers no
more ; for there was temptation in the very names of
the favourites, in the very mention of a coming
race.

I will be as ignorant as the lowest hind in the
county,' he said to himself. But when his companions
in the hunting-field, waiting at some quiet
corner for the hounds, began to talk of the turf,
Mark pricked up his ears and had his say.

Mrs. Peters was full of thought in these winter
days. Her retired life in the cottage on the lonely
country road gave her ample leisure for meditation.

She thought as she polished her chairs and tables,
and removed infinitesimal grains of dust from shining
surfaces that were perpetually being dusted, and
smoothed and folded her draperies, and arranged and
rearranged her few gimcracks. Mrs. Peters was nota
woman of wide resources. For books, save as
ornaments on a chifi'onier, she cared not a jot. She
was a creature of action, energy, vigour. She would
have liked to live in a crowd ; and Fate had doomed
her to domestic solitude, varied by the company of
one dull man. Mr. Maulford's society had been an
enlivening influence while it lasted. She regretted
him now that he was gone.

With such a man as that for a husband a woman
might be sure of getting on in life,' she reasoned ;
but Mark is no better than a log. One might as
well be a poor beast on a common, hobbled to one
bit of green.'

Among those humble acquaintance with whom
Mrs. Peters felt more at her ease than with the leading
burghers of Camelot was an old woman who lived
in a narrow lane off the High-street  a steep little
break-neck lane, cottages on one side and piastres

on the other, leading up to nowhere, or to chaotic
land that was neither field nor open country. This
ancient female was widely known in Camelot under
the friendly name ofAunt Jooly. It was supposed
that in the remoteness of former generations she had
been christened Julia, and that she had once possessed
a surname ; but these were things of the past.
Within the memory of the living she had been always
* Jooly,' and generally * Aunt.' Whether she
had begun by having actual nephews and nieces
before she became a titular aunt to everybody in the
parish, no one ever paused to inquire. People who
went away from Camelot for half a century or so,
and came back to die there when the outside world
had grown tired of them, asked tenderly if Aunt Jooly
were yet alive. Not because they cared for her, but
because she was a landmark.

Aunt Jooly was, or asserted herself to be, of a
fabulous age. If an event in history was mentioned
in her presence she generally claimed to have
been an eye-witness. The little children believed
that she had been at Plymouth when the first alarm
of the Spanish ships rang through the western land.

She was accredited, perhaps in virtue of her years,
with ineffable wisdom. She was a skilful herbalist,
and, within closed doors, had been known to charm
sore eyes, and cure rickets, rheumatism, and quinsy
in an altogether supernatural manner. She was
one of the last of those witches who lingered latest
at this fag-end of England, only vanishing before
the advance of the steam-engine.

Aunt Jooly's most profitable office was that of
monthly nurse. In this capacity she had been useful
to Mrs. Peters, and out of this service there
had arisen a very familiar acquaintance between the
matron and the crone. The old woman claimed a
right of possession in the three fine boys whose
cradles she had rocked, and whose strong young
limbs she had swaddled. She talked of them as
my boys,' and gave them her toothless jaws to kiss.
She dropped in at the cottage of an evening when
Mark was out of the way, and was fed and made
much of. She had always the latest village scandal
to relate solemnly, eking out a scanty modicum of
fact with hints and prophetic suggestions of deepest
interest. And when the teapot had been drained

and the local news exhausted, and the last morsel
of buttered toast had been munched, Aunt Jooly drew
a pack of well-thumbed cards out of her capacious
pocket, and told her entertainer's fortune.

It was curious how Molly Peters  a hard-headed
acute young woman, with an intellect of small range,
but sharp as a needle  hung on this dirty oracle.
The three rows of greasy cards, each card laid slowly
on the table with a sharp dab from a resolute thumb,
were to her as the voice of Fate. For the moment
she believed implicitly. When she was told that
she lay to have her wish, her soul thrilled within
her, for Molly's wish was always the same hungry
desire to see herself mistress at Place. There must
be death for one and sorrow for some before this
could come to pass; but Molly thought of such
death and sorrow as lightly as she would have
thought of a shallow river that must be forded ere
she could enter a shining golden city full of pleasure
and all good things.

When Aunt Jooly, bending knitted brows over
the cards, and for ever wetting that bony thumb of
hers to grip those oracles more surely, told Mrs.

Peters that a dark man wished evil to her, or that a
a fair man lay to do her a kindness, that knave of
spades or that king of hearts was to her an actual
enemy or friend  a traitor whose machinations were
to be guarded against, or an ally whose friendship
was to be counted upon.

On one particular evening, early in the new year,
when Aunt Jooly had dropped in to the usual entertainment
of tea and toast, the fair and friendly man
had been more prominent than usual in the three
rows of dirty cards. Cut them as often as she
pleased, that king of hearts always came to the front,
and never turned his back upon Molly's representative,
a snub-nosed queen of clubs.

'Tes odd how well he lays towards 3'ou,' said
Aunt Jooly, ' and how he turns his back upon the
fair woman. You never had a better friend. And
now for your wish.'

There was some mysterious manipulation of the
cards, another cut, and a prolonged scrutiny.

I believe you'll get your wish, and before long,
said the fortune-teller. * There's a journey before
you  but not a long one.'

No !' cried Molly, breathless ; for the oracle had
been unfriendly to that wish of hers hitherto.

There's a journey. You turn your back upon
the house, you see  that means you're to leave
home. Yes, I believe you'll have jour wish, and it
won't be long first.'

Molly clasped her hands under the table. They
were damp with suppressed agitation. Such a vulgar
oracle, and she such a sensible woman ! Yet
she could not help believing in any omen that promised
the fulfilment of her desire. The cards were
put back into the deep pocket, a mysterious receptacle,
which Aunt Jooly wore buried among her
numerous petticoats, and which would have defied
the most accomplished swell-osman in London.
The two women drew nearer the cheerful fire. It
was a frosty night, and the north-east wind was
shrieking round the cottage, and the tall poplar
by the gate was creaking and groaning as if he
meant to snap asunder presently and smash somebody.


How dull ye be to-night, my dear !' said Aunt
Jooly. * You've nary word to throw at a dog, and

you was that contrary with my boys just now. Has
anything gone askew ?'

Everything's askew,' answered Mary Peters
gloomily. *Do you think it's pleasant to live the
lonesome life I lead, with the workhouse to look
forward to if Mark were to die before his brother ?'

That aren't likely, my dear.'

I hope not ; but who can tell ? Life seems all
at sixes and sevens sometimes. It's smooth enough
for the Squire's wife  an estate worth six hundred
a year settled on her for life, whether she behaves
well or ill. That's what her pretty face has done
for her. But what has mine done for me ? And
yet I was counted a beauty in my time. "What have
I got to look forward to ? Wrinkles and gray hairs,
old age and poverty. Let's talk of something else.
Aunt Jooly. It don't do for me to brood on my
troubles. You know plenty of strange stories, don't
you ? You used to make my flesh creep sometimes,
when I was lying on my bed of a winter evening in
the firelight. Do you remember that story about
Ruth Tregarvan, who was hanged for poisoning her
husband thirty years ago ?'

She was a fool, my dear,' said the crone, shaking
her head,  'Ruth was a fool. She used arsenic.
Any doctor can tell arsenic when he sees it. Lord,
my dear, there's things as d' grow in the hedges
that the doctors know nowt of; but it's lucky for
folks that it's only an old woman like me that has
found out the secret o' they things.'

MOLLY GETS HER WISH.

She were an ignorant young woman, my dear,' pursued
Aunt Jooly, when Mrs. Peters had mixed for
her that gentle stimulant which was required to
settle the tea and toast on an elderly stomach. * If
she'd gnawed what I d' know she never wud ha' give
Sam Tregarvan arsenic ; he were that train', he wur,
my luv, and I must say I felt for Pith, tho' she
were a wicked, hard-hearted, young woman. He
drank like a fish, and when he was drunk he bate
her; and tho' she'd been a good-looking, smart,
young woman when he marr'd her, she got to be
such a poor whisht thing, and you wouldn't ha' give
sixpence for all the clothes on her back  a regular
drab, that's what she came to be, my dear. Nobody
'ud ha' thought there was such wickedness in her ;
she were daft like. Yet she were artful, my dear.
One day when Sam came home from work she gave
him a cold pasty. '' I don't much like the taste of

VOL. II. M

this here," lie says; "there's some'ut queer about
it, perhaps the mate wasn't good." " Perhaps tes the
parsley," she says. So he grumbles, and were a hit
irksome; hut he goes on eaten', as they always
does, poor doomed things. And in the night he
has pains and gripes, and can't go to work next
morning'. Next day he makes use of some gruel as
she made for him, and he grumbles again about the
taste of it ; hut she scolds him for hein' that fanciful,
and so he chinks it up ; and then he d' get that
had, and he d' go on getting' worser, tell he d' die ;
and just when the death-rattle's in his throat, Ruth
d' tear up street distracted like, and call doctor.
She tells doctor that her man ha' been latin' sour
apples, and that they'd laid hard on his stomach ;
and that he'd had the spasms that had, she thought
he'd twisted something inside him, like Farmer
Scott's horse that died at the beginning of the summer.
But the neighbours had bin in and out,
hearing' Sam's groans, and they was able to tell the
doctor a great deal that Ruth didn't care to tell him.
*' This looks like poison," sas Dr. Didcott ; '* have
you any rat's-hane about?" "No," says Ruth,

not that she kuawd of ; but Sam was always close
and fond of hiding' things in corners, and she had
once heard un talk of getting' some stuff to kill the
rats. There was lots of 'em about the place, she d'
say, and they ran in and out as tame as kittens'*
Then you've been mixing some of the stuff with
your flour," says the doctor. "Lord forbid!" says
she. ' I took the flour from the top shelf of the
cupboard." So Dr. Didcott gets up on a cheer and
arches the cupboard, and there sure enough in a
corner was some white powder screwed up in a bit of
paper. "What's this, Mrs. Tregarvan?" he asks.
Salt," says she. "No, it isn't," says he. " It's
arsenic  deadly poison." Then she dropped down
on the floor, and went off with a screech into strong
hysterics. Two of the neighbours was by all the
time, and they could hardly 'ould her. She went
out of one fit into another, and her screeches was
awful. " Be quiet, can't 'ee !" says Dr. Didcott,
brutal like. " Your screeching won't bring him to
life; if it cud, you wouldn't screech. You don't
want un back again." Then he whispers to a lad
that stood lookin' in at the door, and ten minutes

after the lad comes back with a constable, and he
takes Ruth Tregarvan to jail. And at the inquest
it comes out that Sam had never been gnawed to
buy any stuff for the rats, but that Ruth had bought
the arsenic six months before at Launceston. It
was all brought home to her at assizes, and she was
hanged. And I say again, she was a fool ; for instead
of buying' arsenic, she might ha' gathered a
handful of innocent flowers in the hedges that would
have taken Sam off as quiet as an infant.'

What flowers. Aunt Jooly ?' asked Molly.

She was sitting on a low stool in a corner by the
fender, half in shadow, the room dimly lighted by a
single candle, and the glow of a fire that was dying
down to ashes. She lifted her bright dark eyes to
the crone's withered face, which made a diabolical
shadow on the ceiling, and waited with a look of
eager interest for the witch's reply; and yet this
story of Ruth Tregarvan was as familiar to Mary
Peters as the immortal fairy tales that are so dear to
childhood. She had heard the ghastly tale many a
time in the long winter evenings. She had felt a
morbid interest in all the loathsome details of a vulgar

village murder ; but she had never till to-night
troubled herself about those simpler instruments of
death at which the herbalist hinted  the innocent-seeming
leaves and blossoms, roots and berries, of
the woodland and the hedgerow.

No, my dear, I'm not a-going' to tell you that,'
said the wise woman, with a solemn shake of her
head. * Nobody's any the better for known' such
things as that.'

Nor any the worse either, unless they're as
wicked as Ruth Tregarvan,' answered Molly, with a
scornful laugh. ' You don't suppose I'm going to
poison Mark or the boys, do you ?'

Lord love you, my dear, who ever thought of
such a thing ! But folks have no cause to know
such things as can do them no good. I've marched
and learned the flowers and weeds that d' grow in the
fields, so that I might use 'em for people's welfare.
I don't want to larn anybody the harm there is in
'em. There's not a herb but I know its power to
cure folks or to hurt 'em, but I never used my knowledge
against so much as a kitten.'

You needn't make such a fuss. Aunt Jooly,'

said Molly. 'Do you suppose I don't know something
about hedge flowers as well as you ? There's
Deadly Nightshade, now, that's poison. I've warned
the boys many a time against picking the ripe
berries. They might take them for shoes, you
know. And there's Fool's Parsley.'

Death poison.'

Was it one of those you meant that Ruth Tree
might have used ?'

No, my dear. There's other things not so easy
found out. But I'm not going to tell you about 'em.
You might be telling other folks.'

'What a foolish old woman you are !' exclaimed
Molly impatiently. * Keep your knowledge to yourself.
I'm not going to tamper with herbs that may
cure or kill you, as chance goes. I daresay you'll be
poisoning somebody by mistake one of these days,
giving them an overdose of your dandelions or your
nightshades, and then you'll get into trouble, like
Ruth Tregarvan.'

My dear, I know what I'm doing,' answered the
beldame, bridling with offended dignity. * I'm an old
woman, but my sight is better than many a young

one's. Why, 'tes but a month since I cured Mrs.
Doyle, the farmer's wife, of heart-spasms, with foxglove
tea; and if I hadn't knawd just the right
quantity to give her I might ha' killed her, for there's
no deadlier poison than the young leaves of the foxglove,
if you're not careful how you make use of them.'
'How's Mrs. Lanherne getting on with that
sickly eldest girl of hers ?' asked Molly, who seemed
all at once to have wearied of the discussion which
had interested her keenly a few minutes ago ; and
then the conversation became purely local. Aunt
Jooly knew everything about her neighbours, from
the great scandals which agitate a community to the
pettiest details of daily life. She was much more
interesting than a county paper. Mrs. Peters brewed
another dose of that comforting mixture which for
personal use the village herbalist preferred to any of
her own decoctions, and the evening wore itself out
in the discussion of that weakness of character and
general faultiness which are the distinguishing
element in the history of other people. Aunt
Jooly and her hostess discoursed at much length
upon Mrs. Lanherne's foolish indulgence of her

sickly girl, her husband's growing fondness for the
bottle, Dr. Didcott's indebtedness to Giles the
butcher, Mrs. Nichols's reprehensible extravagance
in bonnets ; and much more of the same order.

Mark appeared next evening at dusk. He had
brightened wonderfully since the adjustment of
affairs at the quarries. He was working his hardest,
and had honestly resolved never again to touch a
sixpence of his brother's money. He had spent less
time at the King's Arms of late, and had forsworn
brandy-and-water. And now, instead of wasting the
best part of the evening at billiards, he came straight
from the quarries to Molly's cosy tea-table, and had
a romp with the three boys while the tea was brewing,
and a steak was being grilled for him in the
adjacent kitchen. When the meal was finished and
the boys sent off to bed, Molly began to talk seriously.
She was a cautious woman, and seldom discussed
things freely before her sons.

When are you going to send those boys to
school ?' she asked, with her elbows on the table,
and her bright black eyes fixed on Mark's face.

'I was thinking of it,' he answered feebly.

Yes. But you're always thinking of things, and
they're no nearer being done when you've been thinking
of them for a twelvemonth. Those boys want
schooling, and they can't get it in Camelot. I won't
have them looked down upon by those that are their
inferiors, if all was known. I've taught Jack and
Phil to read and write and cipher ; and baby knows
his letters, and can spell out a page nicely in words of
one syllable. That's enough to start them at a preparatory
school. And I've heard of a suitable school
at St. Columb, where they can be taken for five-and-twenty
pounds a year, and no extras except the
laundress.'

 Seventy-five-pounds a year !' said Mark despondently.
* That will be a pull for me.'

Nonsense, Mark. They cost you something
here, don't they '? They don't live upon air, I can
tell you. The schoolmistress has a good character
for feeding her boys, or I wouldn't trust my children
with her. Jack and Phil must go to school at
once, that's certain, for they're getting too much forme
to manage ; and while we're about it we may just
as well send Harry.'

You're in a tremendous hurry to get rid of
them,' said Mark. ' Yet you're always grumbling
about your loneliness. You'll he ever so much more
lonely when the boys are gone.'

I'll put up with that,' answered this Spartan
mother. ' That's my look-out.'

But it will be my look-out if you fret about them.'

I see how it is,' retorted Mrs. Peters snappishly.
You begrudge the money it will cost you to make
those boys gentlemen. You'd rather they grew up
heathens and ignoramuses.'

No fear of that, Molly, with you. A sharp clever
woman like you can teach her sons as well as any of
your preparatory schoolmistress ; and by and by we
might send them to Whetstone Grammar School, and
make men of them.'

I'm not going to send them to the other end
of Cornwall. You'd better offer to send them to
America at once. They must learn Latin and Greek,
and ever so much that I can't teach, before they can
go to a public school. And I'm told that this Miss
Powle at St. Columb is a capital teacher, and knows
more than half your university students.'

I'll turn it over in my mind said Mark.

And I'll make them new shirts, and get their
clothes ready,' said Molly.

She had her big motherly work-basket handy, and
began stitching away at a small longcloth garment
there and then, as if to let Mark see how thoroughly
she was in earnest.

'What's the news up yonder?' she asked presently,
when Mark had sunk down in his armchair
and stretched his slippered feet across the hearth, in
languid restfulness.

Up yonder' always meant Place.

0, nothing particular. Mrs. Trevornock and
her daughter have gone away  '

They stayed long enough, I think,' interjected
Molly, with a contemptuous laugh. * The old lady
gets plenty out of her son-in-law.'

Why shouldn't they stay ? "They're in nobody's
way, and they brighten up the dull old house.'

No doubt. A pretty girl is always an ornament
in a house,' sneered Molly, snapping her thread, in
the energy of her last stitch.

You mean Flossie,' said Mark.

I mean Miss Trevornock. I wasn't aware you
called her by her pet name. I didn't know you had
got quite so far as that ! '

 There's nothing in that. Every one calls her
Flossie. She's a nice lively girl; with no pretence
about her. But as for her prettiness, she's not as
handsome as you by a long way, so you needn't be
jealous of her.'

Who said I was jealous of her,' asked Molly,
soothed by this assurance. ' I'm not jealous of a
turn-up-nosed chit like that ; but I am angry when
I think that other people can stay as long as ever
they like at Place  while I, who have a better right
than anybody, am not allowed to cross the threshold.'

That will all come right in time, Molly.'

*It might have come right years ago if you
weren't a coward. Your brother has had his fancy,
why shouldn't you have yours ?'

My brother has got the property, and he can do
what he likes,' answered Mark. ' There's no use
arguing about it, my dear. Every man has a right
to marry to please himself; but so he has to dispose
of his property. You heard what Maulford said. If

there are no children up yonder, I shall come in for
the whole estate, except the Hallworthy property,
unless my brother takes it into his head to disinherit
me. Knowing that, why should I run the
risk of offending him ?'

Suppose Vyvyan outlives you ? What's to become
of me and my boys then ?'

It isn't very kind of you to suggest such a chance,
Molly. Tyvyan is eleven years older than I am, and
I don't think I'm particularly shaky.'

Mrs. Peters sat with her work in her lap, staring
at the fire. There were no bright castles, no gates
of paradise, for her dreamy eye in the red cavernous
coals. The vision she saw there was of the workhouse
and all its hardships. She saw herself a penniless
widow, with three hungry orphans, suing for
help at the rich man's door, and being refused.

There must be something done,' she said to
herself. * Things can't go on like this.'

Mark slowly dropped a remark now and then,
as he smoked his cigar and sipped his gin-and-water;
but conversation by the domestic hearth
was by no means lively.

Has your sister come home yet ?' asked Molly,
by and by.

Yes, she's back again, and extra pious since
she's been to Plymouth. She's been sitting under
the last evangelical light which has illuminated
that part of the world, and she talks as big about
him as if he were the comet we're to have this
year. She's been as sour as verjuice ever since
she came home. Thomasine Tudway, who has
been her own maid for the last ten years, and
whom she had trained to be an exaggerated copy
of herself, took to flirting ways at Plymouth,
stopped out late of a Sunday evening, and was
seen walking with a sailor on the Hoe ; so my
sister turned her off at a minute's warning, and
the young woman did the best thing she could
do under the circumstances  went and married
the sailor. And now Priscilla has nobody to look
after her frills and furbelows, fetch and carry for
her, and put up with her tempers, and flatter
her into good-humour, for I believe that was Tud-
way's chief office. She says she means to be
uncommonly particular about the next maid she

engages. She will have no flighty minx, she says
Tudway must have been at least thirty when
she began to he volatile  hut a steady middle-aged
woman, respectably brought up, and with a decent
education. Tudway was upper-housemaid when
Priscilla took a fancy to her, and could neither
read nor write. Poor Pris took no end of trouble
in teaching and training her.'

Molly listened intently, but had no comment
to make. Deepest thoughtfulness had come upon
her while Mark was talking. He fancied she was
half asleep, as she sat looking down at the neglected
fire.

He mixed himself a second tumbler of grog.
When a man has turned over a new leaf as regards
billiards and brandy-and-water in a tavern, he may
surely enjoy the domestic glass without scruple.
They sat for some time in a comfortable silence.
Then suddenly Mary Peters jumped up from her
chair, perched herself upon Mark's knee, and put
her arm round his neck. She was light enough
and 3'oung enough yet to commit this audacity
without ungainliness ; but the action was not the

less startling to Mark. It was so long since she
had been sportive or caressing in her treatment
of him. A heavy gloom had fallen of late years
on his household life, and had made the burden
of his folly wearisome to bear.

Why, Molly, what's in the wind now ?' he
asked, smiling up at her eager face. ' Do you want
a new gown ? Shall I bring down the dog-cart
tomorrow, and drive you over to Launceston ?'

Those bright dark eyes, with their look of concentrated
thought, the faint quiver of the full underlip,
showed an emotion too strong to be caused by
a mere idle longing for new gowns, even in the
shallowest of souls. A nature absolutely shallow
could hardly express its inner longings by such a
look ; but an evil nature might so reveal the sudden
inspiration of an unholy thought.

No, Mark, I want no gowns ; I want to go to
Place.'

My dear, you know it's impossible.'

It is possible, it is easy, with a little good
management. The plan has all formed itself in
my mind within the last five minutes. I am going

to Place as your sister's servant. Nobody knows
me up there. I have been such a stay-at-home
ever since I have lived here, that there's only a
few Camelot people know me ; and the Place servants
hardly ever come down to Camelot. Stockport
is their nearest town, you see, if you can call ita
town. You can manage it all for me, if you
like. Mrs. Nichols will give me a letter of recommendation
; you can get Nichols to ask her.
Don't pull a long face, Mark; Nichols will do
anything for you. I want nothing but that letter.
I can do all the rest myself.'

What's the use ?' asked Mark, sorely puzzled
at this strange fancy. 'Why should you lower
yourself to go there as a servant ? What can you
gain by it ?'

Everything. I can get round your brother.
I never saw the man yet I couldn't manage, if I
tried. Why, I used to twist old Lanherne round
my fingers, when his wife dared not say yes  ay,
nor no  to him. Let me go, Mark. You have no
idea the good I can bring about for you if I once
get a footing at Place. As for your sister, I shall

VOL. II. N

be able to manage her better than you manage
your horse Pepper, though that isn't saying much.'

It's a mad scheme, Molly ; and you'll get me
into trouble,' grumbled Mark.

I'll get you out of trouble, if you'll only ll'ust
me answered Molly, looking into his pale perplexed
eyes with dark intensity, with a look that
mastered and compelled his feeble spirit.

They sat late discussing Molly's scheme, and
Mark argued long ; but he argued feebly, and in
the end, as the weaker vessel had foreseen from
the beginning, the stronger vessel was conquered.

It was late when Mark came back to the cottage
next evening. He had returned to his old haunt
at Camelot, the stuffy parlour and the still suffer
billiard-room, not for pleasure this time, but for a
very unpleasant piece of business. He had pledged
his word to Molly Peters that he would get Mrs.
Nichols to give her a written character, recommending
her to Miss Penrith as a pious and
estimable widow, reduced in, circumstances, and
anxious to enter just such a service as Miss Pen-ruth's,
no meaner or less holy atmosphere being

congenial to a mind which had not fallen with her
fortunes. When Mark left the cottage in the morning,
he carried Molly's rough draft of the letter in
his pocket. All that was required of Mrs. Nichols
was to copy that draft, and to lend the document
the weight and authority of her name. Mar' had
not chosen this lady as her instrument at random.
She knew the person she had to deal with. Mrs.
Nichols was one of those easy-tempered weak-minded
women who are always doing something
for somebody, and always getting done in return.
She had given excellent characters to the most
execrable of servants, rather than that those vipers
who had warmed themselves at her hearth and
stung her  should fail to find some other nest in
which to develop their evil instincts. She had fed
the hungry, and the hungry had stolen her spoons.
She gave away her old garments before she was
certain of getting new ones. She had endured
the ingratitude of sisters-in-law, the insolence of
cousins ; yet her spare room was at the disposal of
any relative who chose to claim it ; and the guest
who departed to-day shaking the dust from her

shoes, or, metaphorically, spitting upon the doorstep,
might return tomorrow sure of a friendly
welcome from Mre. Nichols.

To Mr. Nichols, who had a broad good-nature
which embraced all humanity, and kept only an odd
corner for his wife and children, Mark hesitatingly
expounded Mrs. Peters's views ; how for the last ten
years she had been pining to see the inside of Place,
and to become acquainted with the Penrith family
generally, and how she now saw a way to gratifying
this desire without risk to Mark. All she required
was a letter of introduction from a respectable matron.
Her own cleverness would do the rest. Mr. Nichols
pulled one of his whiskers thoughtfully as he read
the rough draft. The two men had the tavern-parlour
to themselves, while their friends congregated
in the billiard-room.

It's rather like giving a false character, isn't it ?'
said the veterinary surgeon dubiously. ' It would
never do for my wife to do such a thing as that, you
know.'

It wouldn't be the first time if she did. Look
at that girl Sarah. Your wife recommended her to

my  to Mrs. Peters, as a model of sobriety, honesty,
and industry ; and the hussy drank half a bottle of
gin in an afternoon, and proved herself the laziest
young thief that was ever let out of jail.'

That was my wife's kindness,' explained Nichols.
She couldn't refuse to give the girl a chance.'

Well, let her give Mrs. Peters a chance. She's
no thief or drunkard. I suppose you know that
she's respectable ?'

As far as being honest in her dealings and neat
and industrious, and keeping herself to herself,'
faltered Joe Nichols, ' I haven't a word to say against
her. But to recommend her to your sister as a pious
and moral character, when  '

When you don't know whether she has any
right to the wedding-ring she wears,' interjected
Mark. ' Is that what sou mean, Joe ?'

Something like that.'

Then make your mind easy on that score. Shea
lawfully-wedded wife, and a true and faithful wife,
and in due time she'll be properly declared as
such.'

I understand,' said Nichols, ' and I have always

thought as much, or my wife would never have asked
her to tea.'

She never has asked her to her tea-parties
growled Mark.

Not to a set party, perhaps  Camelot people are
so strait-laced. But to a friendly drop in, you know ;
and I'm sure Mrs. Peters prefers that. Well, Mark,
the letter shall be written ; and if my wife ever gets
into trouble about it, you must stand by her.'

I'll tell you what,' said Mark, in a gush of gratitude,
' you shall have the bay horse. I'll make
you a present of him. Give, him a good long run at
grass, and I believe he'll come round, and be as
sound as a roach.'

Xot if he was at grass till the Day of Judgment,'
answered Joe, with conviction ; ' but I thank you all
the same, Mark. I think I knows where I can plant
him. If I get twenty pound for him, you shall have
a dozen of old cognac for your cellar at the cottage 
something better than the fire-water Lanherne gives
us.'

The surgeon went home with Molly's rough draft
in his pocket, promising that the letter should be

written that night, under his own superintendence,
and forwarded to the cottage early in the morning.
So Mark felt that the first important step was taken
in a journey fraught with danger ; yet he was weak
enough to feel glad that he could can home favourable
news to Mrs. Mary Peters.

He opened the door and went into the parlour.
There was no light but the fire-glow, and a strange
woman was sitting by the hearth. Mark drew back,
and was retiring to look for the mistress of the house,
wondering who this unfamiliar gossip might be, when
the stranger startled him still more by a ringing
laugh, which he knew very well as the laughter of
Mary Peters.

Light the candle and use your eyes, Mark,' she
said ; and the voice as well as the laughter was
Mary's.

What's the joke ?' asked Mark, mystified and
somewhat angry. ' What do you mean by making a
guy of yourself ?'

There's no joke in it,' answered Mrs. Peters.
I want you to tell me how I look as a respectable
widow in reduced circumstances.'

Mark had lighted the candle by this time, and
he fell back a pace or two, and surveyed the transformed
figure which offered itself to his inspection.


Mrs. Peters had braided and sheeted her dark hair
in two stiff bands, of the order best described as ' .'
These narrowed a forehead already
narrow, and lengthened the natural oval of the face.
The widow's-cap, fastened under the chin, the scanty
black stuff gown and broad lawn-collar, gave a puritanical
look to one whose usual aspect suggested
smartness and coquetry. Altogether the change was
startling, and even those who had best known Mary
Peters might be slow to discover their acquaintance
of the flashing eye and vivacious lip in this grave
and discreet-looking widow.

I don't suppose any of the servants at Place
have ever seen me,' she said. ' But even if they had,
do you think they'd know me again ?'

Not in that rig-out,' answered Mark. ' You're
a wonderful woman, Molly ; and when you set your
heart upon anything, I believe you'd walk over red-hot
ploughshares to get it.'

I would,' she answered, with a look that almost
scared him. ' Have you got the letter ?'

*Mrs. Nichols is to send it round tomorrow
morning. Joe acted like a brick.'

So much the better for him when  '

When what, Molly ?'

If ever you come into your rights.'

IN THE WANING YEAR.

Barbara was alone once more in the bleak blank
beginning of the year  the dead dull time when the
days lengthen, yet bring neither leaf nor flower;
when the skies are gray, and rain-drops lash the pane,
and the snow lies in the hollow of the hill, and the
ravenous east wind roams over the earth seeking
whom it may devour ; when all the traditional joys, or
simulations and appearances of joy, that belong to
Christmas are over and done with, and the comforts
of the fireside have begun to pall even upon the most
domestic mind. Those first months of the new year
are always up-hill work ; save perhaps to the sportsman,
who has infinite delight in horse and hound,
gun and dog, and to whom the first violet is an
affliction and the yellow April butterfly a bore.

Alone, or almost alone, in her castle on the
Cornish moor, Barbara found the early year a period
of exceeding gloom. There was much rain at that

time, and save for an occasional gleam at close of
day the sun hid his face, and it was as if there had
been no such luminary to gladden the world ; for it
was difficult to believe that the dull gray light of
those short winter days came from the round red-gold
face of that jovial Sol who glorifies the midsummer
roses, and who in autumn makes the decay
and corruption of dying Nature more splendid than
her freshness and bloom.

Miss Penrith had returned from Plymouth renewed
in her strength, like that very sun, which
rejoiceth to run his race. Having made herself more
than ever secure of a freehold in the skies, she was
so much the less inclined to make herself agreeable
to her fellow-mortals upon earth. She did not
actually lecture Barbara, but she took every occasion
of talking at her. She would remark, for instance,
apropos to nothing, that some people's lives were
so frivolous and futile that it was a wonder they
were permitted to go on living. At other times,
when inveighing against the riot and wastefulness of
the servants'-hall  which, she was thankful to say,
she had always kept in check, so long as she had any

authority  she would observe, as a general proposition,
that people who had been reared upon a pittance
often showed a natural bent to lavish expenditure
and self-indulgence, whenever the opportunity
for those vices arose.

Barbara received these stealthy thrusts with a
provoking indifference. She cared too little for Miss
Penrith to be affected by that lady's bad opinion.
She was not hypocrite enough to attempt conciliation.


If I tried to live pleasantly with her I should
be pretending all day long,' she told herself; ' and it
is no part of my duty to falsify my own nature in
order that I may please Miss Penrith.'

So the two women went their own several ways.
Priscilla wrote long letters to other Priscilla, and
read the last new book by the last new light in the
evangelical world, which volume generally prophesied
the approaching destruction of this planet, taking
the Crimean war and the Indian mutiny as the preliminary
explosions which heralded the final crash.

Barbara lived her joyless eventless life almost
alone, save when at her husband's request she put

on her fur-lined jacket and sat beside him in his dogcart,
while he drove to look at distant farms and
scold faulty farmers. She sorely missed her mother
and Flossie. She was full of fear about that distant
struggle which was not yet finished.

Miss Penrith had by this time recovered from
the shock of Thomasine Tudway's ingratitude, and
had obtained for herself a new handmaiden and confidant
of a very superior stamp to the deceitful
Thomasine. The new attendant  a being so intensely
respectable could hardly be spoken of as a
lady's maid  was a widow; young, but serious beyond
her years ; soft of foot and grave of voice and
aspect ; a person who had known trouble, had passed
through the furnace of disappointment, and had been
purified in the fire of adversity. Such a dependent
was a treasure above price to a lady of Priscilla's
temper. Priscilla liked adulation, and here was
some one to offer it, a living fountain of flattery which
never ran dry. Priscilla gloried in her piety, and
here was some one whose evangelical graces only
stopped short at the point where they would have
become presumption. The maid was only a little

less enlightened than her mistress, as Plato to
Socrates, or Mason to Walpole. .Priscilla had nothing
but praise for this estimable widow, whose
name was Morris.

Thus the young year wore on. Mark sold a
couple of horses at a ruinous loss, and gave away
another; and having thus depopulated his stable,
save of the admirable Pepper and a sturdy brown cob,
ugly and fiddle-headed, but of inexhaustible energies
and an immeasurable capacity for wrong-doing, the
manager of the quarries devoted himself to business
with a steadiness which was highly pleasing to his
elder brother. Business thoughts and business cares
gave him a preoccupied air occasionally : but nobody
at Place wanted him to be lively. Dulness and
silence were in the very atmosphere of the shadowy
old house, where Flossie's gaiety had seemed always
a discordant note.

So the dull year wore on. June brought her
roses and nightingales; July filled the hedgerows
with ferns and foxgloves, and changed winter's gray
sea to an ocean more glorious than jasper or amethyst.
And swift on summer's beauty came autumn's

slow decay, and the skies were tliunder-cliarged, and
the last of the reapers were busy on the upland fields.
It was in the waning of the year that an added and
unwonted gloom deepened the shadow of Barbara's
joyless home. Yyvyan, who hardly knew what it
vfsLS to be ill, began to feel that his prime of life and
the sense of power that goes with it breve departing.
Something, he could scarce explain what, was amiss
with him. He could no longer endure the fatigue
of long rides and long fasting. He who scarce knew
the meaning of weakness felt himself suddenly, and
at intervals, as feeble as an infant.

Can this be age ?' he asked himself angrily.
Have I become an old man all at once  at fifty ?
It is not possible; yet I feel like an old man  a
feeble old creature, tottering on the brink of the
grave. It must be something organic'

And then the cold sweat, which he had felt so
often of late, gathered on his brow, as he remembered
how his father had been cut ofl in the fulness and
flower of life by heart-disease, unsuspected till the
blow came. Remembering this, and feeling this
strange torpor creeping over him, this deadly fainting,

this dimness of vision, this terrible necessity of
lying on his sofa, helpless, inert, till the fit passed,
Vyvyan Penrith believed himself a doomed man.

'I am like the rich man in the parable,' he said
to himself. * Of what account are my lands and my
houses ? To me, too, the awful voice has sounded :
Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of
thee !" Yes, I am doomed, and she will marry her
soldier-lover and be happy ; happy, as she has never
been with me ; loving, as she has never been to me ;
beloved  no, never more fondly than she might have
been by me. The husk is rough and ugly, but there
was a true heart at the core, if she would have had
it.'

Then, after a long blank pause, in which the
pulse beat slowly, and that icy dew gathered on the
haggard brow, and all things grew dim before the
clouded sight, Vyvyan began to wonder, with a vague
self-pity, what his little world would be like after he
was dead.

His chief thought was of his wife.

"Will she be sorry for me when I am gone ?' he
asked himself. * Of course she will marry that other

man  a hero, famous, a man for a woman to love ;
but when she is a happy wife, a happy mother, will
she think of me kindly, regretfully even, and say to
herself sometimes, " He was a rough queer creature,
but he loved me. Such as it was, after its
kind, his was true love" ?'

He suffered, and held his peace about this new
strange suffering. For some time he would tell no
one of his illness, neither wife nor sister, not even
one of those old servants who had served him since
he was a boy. Nor had he yet made up his mind to
consult a doctor. The fits came upon him generally
at the same time of the day, when he was alone in
his study, after breakfast. He had found that lying
down on his sofa gave him relief. He would lie
there quiescent till the fit passed, and he was his
own man again. On two or three occasions the
symptoms were more violent, and he had some difficulty
in concealing his illness from the household.
He shrank with a strange aversion from the revelation
of his weakness. He felt like a king disowned,
who could yet maintain the semblance of royalty.
He did not want them to know that his race was all

VOL. II. O

but run, that he was of no significance in the world,
a mere passing shadow, with that hour when he
should vanish from the scene already marked upon
the dial. He who possessed so much found it bitter
to contemplate that near future in which his possessions
must slip into other hands. If people knew that
a mortal disease had its grip upon him, they would
begin to calculate how long he would last  how
many months or days they would have to wait for
wealth and liberty. His wife, Priscilla, Mark, each
of these would profit by his death, and each must
desire it. To sit amidst them and know that they
were calculating every hour, counting every breath
he drew  that their hopes waxed strong with the
pallid hue of disease, waned when his cheek brightened
 this would be too horrible.

I'll keep the truth from them as long as I can,'
he said to himself. * Better that I should hold onto
the last, and drop like a felled tree.'

Sometimes he thought he would go away and
wait for death in some distant land, tended by strangers,
who would be losers when he died. But to
leave his wife, to leave his land, that laud which was

to him as a living thing, so fondly had he watched
over its welfare !

No, he would he lord of the soil to the last.

'God help the estate when Mark owns it!' he
thought. ' He'll he a careless landlord. He'll let
his tenants sell their straw, perhaps, and break up
some of the fine old pastures. And not another acre
of the moor will he redeemed in his time. Things
will stand still, at the best.'

soul-torturing thought, that these things must
go to another, a careless owner, possibly a spendthrift,
who would let the ancestral estate melt away
acre by acre, till the Penruths ceased to have name
or place in the world. Better, perhaps, to be a beggar
and lie down in a corner to die, under some dark
archway, or in a stranger's porch, and to let the
slough of this tired body slip off the immortal soul
like a worn-out garment, of no more value or account
than penury's rags and tatters, than to bea
rich man anchored to earth by the weight of
many acres, and much cattle, houses, money, and
mines.

*How little use I have made of it all!' thought

Vyvyan. ' I might have lived as happily on a pound
a week.'

One day his wife went into his study to consult
him upon some household arrangement, it being her
habit to defer to him in all things, and found him
lying on the sofa, inert, with a cold dew upon his
forehead.

 Are you ill, Vyvyan ?' she asked, kneeling by
his side.

A little faint,' he faltered, hardly able to answer
her. * It will pass off  presently.'

Let me get you something ; I am sure you are
very ill. No, don't stir,' as he tried to rise, and fell
back again on the pillow, her face growing dim before
his clouded sight ; ' I'll ring.'

No ; don't let the servants see !' he gasped; but
she had rung the bell.

It was answered by Priscilla's inestimable widow.

I beg your pardon, ma'am ; but I was passing,
and the bell rang so loud. I was afraid  '

'Yes, quite right. Mr. Penrith has fainted.
Bring some brandy directly, please, Morris.'

The devoted Morris tripped lightly away, while

Barbara knelt by her husband's side, chafing his cold
hands, gazing anxiously at his haggard face.

He was not insensible, but his eyes had a strange
sightless look, though the pupils were unnaturally
dilated.

*I don't know what it means,' he gasped presently.
* I feel as if I was sinking through the sofa
through the floor ; a horrid feeling.'

Barbara was holding his clammy hands in her
own, which fear made almost as cold. She had little
experience of sickness, and this was so strange a
sickness.

Mrs. Morris came back with a spirit decanter and
a glass. Barbara poured out some brandy, and persuaded
Yyvyan to drink it. He obeyed her with a
mechanical air, like a sleep-walker, and then fell
back again into his recumbent position.

The brandy revived him; a faint colour came
back to his leaden cheeks, his breathing grew more
regular, and that horrible sensation of sinking
through the sofa gradually left him.

Don't mention  to my sister  or any one  that
I have been  ill,' he said to Mrs. Morris.

I shall obey you, of .course, sir,' replied the
widow, with grave respect ; ' but do you not think
Miss Penrith ought to know ? Mrs. Penrith is so
young and so inexperienced, and if there were anything
serious in the attack she might be at a loss
how to act or what to suggest.'

Fiddlestick !' ejaculated Vyvy an testily. * You
talk as if I was a sick baby. Do you suppose I don't
know how to take care of my own health, woman ?
I don't want half a dozen of your fussy sex fidgeting
about me. One's enough.'

You ought to see a doctor, Vyvyan, and
immediately,' said his wife, with gentle insistence.


I am not going to be hauled about, and prodded,
and listened to by some spectacled humbug in Sailed
answered Yyvyan. ' If there is anything organically
wrong with me, no doctor living can set
me right. Ten to one but the cleverest of them
would make a wrong guess, and shorten my days by
his experiments. Or at best he would put me on a
regimen that would prolong my life for a year or so,
at the cost of making it a burden to me. If my complaint

is only a passing disorder it will go as it
came, without drugs or surgery.'

But, sir,' pleaded Mrs. Morris,  for the satisfaction
of your friends.'

My friends must be satisfied with leaving me
alone,' said Yyvyan, who had rallied wonderfully
after that glass of brandy. ' There is absolutely nothing
amiss with me. I have ridden too much of
late. That horse my brother bought is a tremendous
puller. There, you can go, Morris ; and, remember,
not a word to my sister.'

Barbara was dismissed soon afterwards, and
Vyvyan went about his daily business seeming none
the worse for his sudden attack of faintness. Days
passed, and he suffered no recurrence of those strange
sensations, that sudden standing still of the clockwork
within him, while the world without grew
clouded and dim. He began to think the indisposition,
whatever it was, had passed away, and that he
should be troubled no more.

Indigestion, or liver, I daresay,' he said to himself.


Too soon had he rejoiced. Just a week after

that morning on which his wife had surprised him,
the fit came on again, in less than half an hour after
he had taken his morning draught of honest home-brewed
beer. He eat little or nothing for breakfast,
and was in the habit of refreshing himself with a
draught of beer before he sat down to his letter-writing
or newspaper-reading.

He felt the deadly torpor creeping over him,
the dull lethargic sensation, and remembering how
brandy had revived him on the last occasion, he
rushed to the door, opened it, and called out, in a
voice loud enough to reach the pantry at the end of
the passage,

James  Dickson  some brandy !'

He came face to face with Didcott, the Camelot
apothecary, who was family doctor at Place, earning
from twenty to thirty pounds a year by occasional
attendances on Miss Penrith and the servants.

What the deuce brought you here ?' gasped
Vyvyan.

He had no strength to stand another minute, but
reeled and fell back on the sofa, and lay there like a
log. Didcott took the brandy-bottle and glass quietly

from the servant at the door, and administered a
dose. Then he knelt down by the sofa and felt
Vyvyan's pulse. Startled by that slow pulse, he
took a stethoscope out of his hat, opened the Squire's
waistcoat, and listened to the beating of his heart.

Is it very serious ?' Vyvyan asked, after a silence
that seemed long.

'Well, it is rather serious,' Didcott answered
thoughtfully. * There's the same feeble action as in
your father's case. It's wonderful how these constitutional
peculiarities repeat themselves in families.
But don't be alarmed, my dear sir. We shall make
you all right again : a little care  '

'I don't want you to make me right again. I
know what you mean by that. I am to be patched
up ; and I am to be careful how I ride, or walk, or
run up-stairs ; or perhaps I am never to do any one
of those things, but to sit in my chair like a mummy
in a museum, and be waited upon, and watched, and
pitied, and condoled with. No, thank you, Didcott ;
life on such terms is not worth having. I'll go my
own way, and live as I have lived ; and if I am
doomed to drop down some day as my father dropped,

in this room, nineteen years ago, let the doom come.
Your tinkering won't stave it off.'

I should like you to have another opinion. Will
you go up to London and see  '

No ; I have a shrewd idea what ails me, and I
know it's beyond cure. Can the cleverest man in
London put a new heart into my body ? Their
scientific jargon would only worry me. No, Didcott,
I shall ride my horse and look after my estate to
the end, let it come soon or late. It doesn't much
matter. How did you happen to be here this morning?'


Your sister has been suffering from a relaxed
throat; nothing serious, but she likes me to look
after her. I was just coming from her morning-room.
Very retiring person that new maid of hers.
She always vanishes directly I appear.'

The widow ?' said Yyvyan. ' Yes, she's a decent
woman enough. Goes quietly about the house, and
keeps herself to herself.'

Shall I come and see you tomorrow ?'

No. What's the use of our humbugging each
other ? If you were to send me medicine, I shouldn't

take it. If you told me what to do, I shouldn't doit.
Potter about the house, and molly-coddle my
sister as much as you like. But the kindest thing
you can do for me is to leave me alone.'

You feel better now ?'

Much better.'

That brandy revived you wonderfully, didn't it ?'

Wonderfully.'

Then you'd better keep a bottle of brandy in
your study, and take a little whenever you feel the
attack coming on.'

'I shall do so. Don't say anything to my sister.'
'Of course not,' replied Didcott, reserving to
himself the right to break his word.

He told Miss Penrith everything next day, and
Miss Penrith allowed the facts of the case to ooze
out gradually, and almost unawares, in the course of
her conversation with the inestimable widow. Barbara
was told nothing. It was her sister-in-law's
particular desire that she should be kept in ignorance
of her husband's peril.

She is young and foolish, and is sure to do something
silly,' said Priscilla. * If she were to make a

fuss about his health she would worry my poor brother,
and it is our first duty to spare him all agitation.'


 That is essential,' replied Mr. Didcott.

More than a week passed without a recurrence of
the attack ; but this time Vyvyan entertained no
hope that the malady was of a temporary kind. It
would come upon him, no doubt, after an interval :
that dull, slow beating of his heart  throbs that
seemed as far apart as minute-guns  and the deathlike
faintness that followed. He lived in constant
dread of this.

One day he rode further than usual, through a
lonely shelterless country, and under a steady downpour.
He came home late for dinner, wet to the
skin, and with a desperate headache. Next day he
felt dull and tired, and stayed at home by the fireside,
where Barbara kept him company, and read
yesterday's newspapers to him, and was, in all ways,
as dutiful as a wife need be. Yet it was pain to him
to watch the fair pale face, with its look of settled
sadness, and to know that the utmost this young
wife of his could give him was duty and obedience.

She was more dutiful, more submissive, than a loving
wife would have been. On the following day he
was prostrate with some kind of low fever, and could
no longer refuse to be visited by the family doctor.
Didcott came, looked at his tongue, felt his pulse,
and told him that he had caught a severe cold, a fact
which the patient himself knew perfectly well without
the aid of science, since he could feel it in every
bone of his body.

Head's very hot,' said the surgeon, a fact also
painfully palpable to the patient. ' I shan't trouble
you with much medicine. A saline draught to betaken
occasionally, that's all. But you'll want good
nursing.'

Priscilla was sitting by the big gloomy four-post
bedstead. She had taken possession of her brother
in his illness, and would have turned Barbara out of
the room if she had dared.

Of course I shall nurse him !' exclaimed Miss
Penrith.

I think that is juy duty,' said Barbara.

She was standing at the foot of the bed, pale,
watchful, subdued.

He had better have one of the servants to look
after him at night,' said Didcott. * Some one used
to sick-nursing.'

Then he can have nobody better than Morris,'
replied Priscilla. * She is admirable in a sick-room.
I'm sure her attention to me when I had my throat
in that dreadful state was beyond all praise; so
gentle, so light-handed, so thoughtful. She is accustomed
to sickness, poor thing, having nursed her
husband in a lingering complaint.'

Let me see her,' said Didcott, ' and tell her what
she'll have to do. It is a question of giving nourishment
frequently and at regular intervals.'

Priscilla went in search of her new favourite ;
and when Mr. Didcott left the sick-room presently,
he found Mrs Morris waiting for him in the dimly-lighted
gallery, just outside Yyvyan's door.

To her he gave his instructions briefly. The
patient was to have nourishment  of the light invalid
kind  at intervals during the night. She was to sit
up with him all night, and give him his medicine at
regular hours. His wife and sister would be able todo
all that was wanted in the day.

Mrs. Morris  who was that miracle, a silent
woman  responded only b}' a respectful curtsy.

You understand ?' said the doctor.

*Yes, sir.'

The next day, and the next after that, there was
little change. If it could be said hopefully that the
patient was no worse, it could also be said despondently
that he was no better.

There has been no return of the heart-attack?'
Didcott asked Vyryan confidentially, bending down
to whisper the question.

'None.'

That is good at any rate. 'We shall have you
down-stairs again in a few days. Was your sister's
maid properly attentive to you, giving you your beef-tea
and your medicine ?'

Yes ; she is a very pleasant person.'

Those were dull slow days, in which it seemed
as if grim old Time were resting on the handle of
of his scythe instead of mowing down the hours.
How different had the old man's pace been in the
sunny garden at Camberwell, where the light of foot
went giddily round upon the springy turf to the

sickly-sweet ' Prima Donna,' the languishing ' Elfin ;'
or in the homely little parlour, where two people
played chess and conjugated Hindostaneeee veris, and
sketched the plan of a happy future. Then the
longest summer day had been too short for such
absolute content.

Barbara was constant in her attendance upon the
invalid. She read to him, she sat and watched him
while he dozed. She would not be ousted from her
office by Priscilla, who also sat in the sick-room, and
would not budge. When the invalid was asleep the
two women sat in silence, listening to the ticking of
his big hunting watch, which dangled from its stand
upon the table by his bed. The fire of wood and
coal burned cheerily in the wide grate, and that was
the only cheerful thing in the room.

On the third afternoon there came a remarkable
change ; not in the patient, but in the weather. A
stormy wind swept up froru the sea  a wind that bent
the sturdiest of the oaks and firs as if they had been
saplings, and tore up young plants in the shrubberies,
and snapped the branches of beech and elm, and
whirled autumn's first fallen leaves in darkling gusts

across the turf, and rattled the strong leaden casements.


The sky was of a livid angry hue, and now and
then sharp showers of hail beat against the windows
with a startling suddenness.

Tyvyan was asleep, and Barbara was standing by
the window watching earth and sky when her maid
Gilmore entered softly and beckoned to her.

She went out into the corridor.

'If you please, ma'am,' said Gilmore, ' there is a
gentleman in the drawing-room who has called to
see you.'

On such a day. How extraordinary ! I can't
leave my husband's sick-room. You ought to know
that, Gilmore. Did the gentleman give you his card.'

No, ma'am. But he wants particularly to see
you, ma'am. He was so pressing that I didn't like
to refuse.'

Perhaps I had better come,' said Barbara. ' I
daresay it is the new vicar at Stockport.'

She went back to Priscilla, told her of this cmi-
vous summons, and then went down to the drawing-room.


VOL. II. p

CAN I FORGET  CANST THOU FORGET ?'

The drawing-room at Place was not a bright or cheerful
apartment at the best of times. It was long
and low, hung with tapestry that had grown gray
with age, the ceiling sustained by heavy beams,
the furniture dark and bulky.

This afternoon, when the sky, unnaturally obscured
by the storm, was darkening perceptibly
with the approach of twilight, the room looked its
gloomiest. The stranger stood with his face to one
of the windows as Barbara entered, but he turned
at the sound of her footfall, and came a few steps
towards her, with his hat in his hand. His hair
was long and unkempt, and fell over his forehead ;
his face was half-covered with a dark-brown beard ;
his skin was bronzed to a coppery darkness. He
wore a heavy frieze overcoat, and a woollen scarf
was muffled round his throat and ears.

He stood with his back to what little light

there was in the darkening gray sky ; he was
roughly and strangely clad, changed by toil and
hardship, wasted by sickness ; yet, with one swift
look of half-scared, half-joyous recognition, Barbara
knew him.

'George!' she faltered, planting herself with
her back against the door, as if she would so have
guarded him from the approach of possible enemies.
0, why did you come here ? why  '

Because I wanted to see you,' he answered.
I would have come to you in a worse place. I
would have gone where Orpheus went, and my
Eurydice should not have slipped through my
fingers. I would have done what the civilian
Kavanagh did the other day at Lucknow, when he
passed through the lines of the enemy, at the
hazard of a horrible death. Why did I come here ?
Because I heard that, though you were rich, you
were not happy, and I wanted to see for myself
the best or the worst that could be said of
you,'

Who told you that I was unhappy ?' she asked.

She was trembling a little, yet she bore herself

with an outward calmness wliicli provoked her own
wonder.

Of what hard stuff women must he made !' she
thought.

'Your father's clerk. I met him in Fleet-street
the day before yesterday.'

And he told you that I was unhappy ?'

Yes.'

He is a traitor ; false to my husband, false
to me, false to you. Beware of him !'

I am glad he deceived me when he told me
5ou were miserable. That was false, was it not ?'

Of course it was false. Why should I be
miserable ? My husband is very good to me. He
has been all kindness and generosity ever since I
married him. My life is not what you would call
sunshiny, perhaps, except when my mother and
sister are with me ; but I get on smoothly enough,
and I  am grateful to Providence. And now let
us talk of yourself. How is it that you are back
in England ?'

'I was sent home by the doctors. I was
wounded at Lucknow, and was in the hospital therefor

three months. I have been as near death as a
man can reasonably hope to be without dying. I
have had a few miraculous escapes, and have done
hard service in my humble capacity. I never
thought to tread upon English soil again.'

She watched him intently as he spoke, and her
pale cheek grew more pallid, and her eyes grew
larger with horror. Even in that dim light she
could see how sorely he was changed. He was the
ghost of that George Leland she had known. The
hollow cheeks, the deeply-sunken eyes, the premature
lines that marked the sunburnt brow, all told
of the wreck and ruin wrought by ten long months
of such hardship and such privation as but rarely
fall even to a soldier's lot.

'How ill you are looking!' she faltered.

That is a fact I cannot deny. I lay in my
berth like a log during the water part of my journey,
and God only knows how they contrived to drag
me through the overland portion of it. But here
I am  come out alive from that hell upon earth
in which so many nobler men went down. Poor
Havelock ! Ah, Barbara, that was a blow! A

man forgets his little self, and little loves and
sorrows, when he hears of such a calamity as that.'

You were with him ?' asked Barbara.

'No; I was not at Lucknow till the storming
of the city in March last. But every soldier in
India felt the death of Havelock as a personal loss.
He was a noble soul. Nicholson too, and Peel, and
Gerard, and Adrian Hope. The Iliad has not a
longer list of heroes.'

*And you have done heroic work,' she said,
looking up at him, forgetful of all that was perilous
or compromising in her position, utterly unconscious
of a pair of sharp feminine eyes i which were
watching her from the shrubbery opposite the
window.

Mrs. Morris, refreshed by a comfortable midday
sleep, had come down to the housekeeper's room
to make herself a cup of tea, and, hearing from
Gilmore of Mrs. Penrith's visitor, had tripped
out to the garden to reconnoitre.

The firelight shone on those two figures as
they stood a little way from the mullions window,
face to face.

I have done--liat I could,' answered George
Leland ; * every man did that. There was not one
who shirked danger or feared death. The things
that have been done yonder can never be undone ;
they will stand as a black spot upon the tablet of
history for ever. But those infamies have been
in some wise avenged. I have been called bloodthirsty,
Barbara, because I ordered those Mahometan
devils out of the cart and shot them dead,
when I saw their rescue was inevitable if I did not.
Bloodthirsty ! God in heaven ! Do the men who
say such things remember the blood of the little
children that was shed in that accursed city, the
shame of innocent women, the agony of wives 
mothers ?'

Come nearer the window and let me look at
you,' said Barbara tremulously; * there is so little
light here. Yes, you are looking dreadfully ill. You
ought to go home to your people and be nursed.'

That is what I am going to do. I am going
home, by and by, to  be nursed.'

He paused before the last two words, as if there
were some other thought in his mind.

Why did you not send me your name just now ?
There was no need of mystery. I have the right to
see an old friend if I like.'

Unquestionably. That fellow Maulford gave
me a false impression. I thought you were like a
fairy princess in an ogre's castle, and that I must
come as a stranger in order to get a glimpse of
you.'

It was a foolish fancy,' said Barbara ; ' but it
does not matter. We have seen each other. That
is all you wanted, is it not ? Indeed, I wonder that
you should wish to see me again, after  '

'After what?' he asked, as she hesitated.

After having left my last letter unanswered.'

What letter ? Good heavens ! I leave a letter
of yours unanswered ! Did I not watch and hope
for some reply from you  just one little line expressing
pity or regret ? I know I had no right to
expect it, for I had done my best to make my renunciation
irrevocable. Yet it would have comforted
me to know you were sorry for me  that the bond
between us was not broken without a mutual pang.'

She looked at him with widely-opened eyes.

Do you mean that you never received my letter "?'
she asked ; * my letter in which I told you that no
change in fame or fortune could make any difference
to me ; that I would he true to 3'ou in evil days as
well as good days ; that nothing hut the knowledge
that you cared for somebody else would make me
give you up ? Do you mean to say that no such
letter as that ever reached you ?'

Barbara, did you write that ? Would you
have faced poverty and disgrace for my sake ? How
happy such a letter would have made me I But it
never reached me.'

Then I have been cruelly treated  cruelly !
Fate has been too hard. I wrote to you on my sickbed
 yes, that ruthless letter of yours made me ill
and I gave the answer to my sister to post ; and
I waited and hoped for your reply. I thought you
would relent, and all would be as it had been before
that wretched summer night. And then, when no
letter came, I thought 3-ou very, very cruel, and I
tried to harden my heart against you.'

And succeeded so well that in less than a year
you were a rich man's wife,' said Leland, with a

touch of bitterness. ' When I saw your marriage in
the paper, I was weak enough to wonder a little that
you were so easily consoled.'

I married because my marriage would be advantageous
to my mother, and it mattered little what I
did with my life. You did not want me.'

Did not want you ? I was breaking my heart
for you.'

You should never have tried to cancel our engagement.
That promise was sacred. How could
you write me such a letter ?'

I was beside myself when I wrote  mad, with
over-work and bitter disappointment. I was a
broken man  ruined, disgraced  and I considered
it my duty to set you free from any association with
a man upon whom his fellow-men looked coldly.'

Do you think the evidence of all the world
would have made me doubt you ? Well, you chose
that it should be so, and Fate made your choice
irrevocable. Let us talk no more about it. You
have only to think of getting well. But how are
you to get back to Launceston in this frightful
weather? Your coat is wet,' laying her hand

lightly on Lis sleeve ; ' yes, dreadfully wet. You
walked here through those hail-storms ?'

Yes, I walked. It was roy own choice. I
might have hired a fly at Launceston.'

You must not walk back. You must get your
coat dried, and then you must have my carriage to
take you hack.'

Would not that set people talking ?'

Xo doubt it would. But I must endure that.'

*Xo, Barbara. I can go back to the lodge between
the showers, and wait there for the coach.
There is one that passes at seven. I made inquiries
before I left Launceston. Give yourself no trouble
about me. Go back to your husband.'

Yes, I must go back to him. He is ill, and I
have no right to be away from him.'

I will not detain you any longer. It is something
to have seen you, and to know that you are
not unhappy. You are changed, but not for the
worse. You look older and graver, but no less
beautiful than in the days that are gone. Good-bye,
Barbara

must not go away in that wet coat, and

without some kind of refreshment,' said Barbara,
going to the door.

She opened it, and called Gilmore, who came
quickly enough to betoken a certain alertness in the
household.

Get this gentleman's coat dried by the kitchen
fire, and bring him some wine,' she said.

Major Leland took off the old frieze coat and the
big muffler, and appeared in his own natural garb,
like the George Leland of old. Gilmore carried off
the coat, and reappeared quickly with the inevitable
twin decanters of port and sherry on the big silver
tray. Then she laid a cloth on a table near the
fire, and brought a round of corned beef and a
newly-cut chine, with the necessary adjuncts, this
substantial fare being considered in hospitable Cornwall
a kind of light refreshment.

The Major had no appetite for beef or chine ; but
to please Barbara he drank a glass of old-fashioned
brown sherry, of a fine gouty flavour, and ate a crust
of home-baked bread.

Strange that I should eat your husband's bread
and salt,' he said.

Why should it be strange ?' asked Barbara,
looking at him with frank honest eyes, full of such
tenderness as the truest wife in the land may feel
for a hero. ' Can we not be friends ? We have
never quarrelled or ceased to esteem each other.
Fate has parted us, and we must bow to God's will.
"We must be friends at a distance perhaps, for my
husband is a man who lives almost alone ; but we
can be friends to the end of life, I lippe  Major
Leland.'

How difficult it was for her lips to shape this
formal name, remembering their parting on board
the Hesper, when she had been clasped to his heart
with all the force of passionate grief, and had felt
that true heart beating against her own ! The
memory of that fond farewell brought the blood to
cheek and brow, and then left her pale as with sudden
pain.

I must go,' she said abruptly. ' My husband
may have awakened, and will think me unkind for
having left him. Good-bye, God bless you ! You
will go back to Somersetshire at once, will you not,
and rest, and recover your health ?'

I shall go back to my native village, no doubt,
sooner or later ; but my father died a year and a
half ago, and the old vicarage belongs to a stranger.
There is only Marian left in the place where we
were born. This mixture of sea and moorland air
will set me up, I think, better than Somersetshire.
I shall stay at Launceston, or perhaps Kockport, fora
few days.'

Kockport was a fishing village and harbour in a
hollow of the cliffs, within a few miles of Place,
nearer even than Camelot.

Would you not be better cared for with one of
your sisters?'

I need no special care. I only want rest and
English air. Good-bye, Barbara. You may call
me Major Leland, if you like. I suppose it is only
right that the mistress of this house should do so.
But I shall call you Barbara to my dying day.'

I don't think it makes much difference,' answered
Barbara naively.

No, Fate is too big to be influenced by such
details. I see you are anxious to go back to your
husband.'

Yes, I should like to be with him when he
wakes. Good-bye.'

Good-bye. Am I forbidden to come and see
you again ?'

You are the best judge of that. You had better
not come again while my husband is ill ; for if you
are to visit here I must introduce you to him. He
is not fond of strangers.'

That does not promise a hearty welcome. Well,
perhaps it would be wiser for me not to come. And
yet to go back to India only having once seen your
face ! That seems hard.'

Good-bye,' she said, holding out her hand to
him. * I am sare it is better for you not to come.
My husband is all goodness to me ; but he is rough
and stern in his manner. He might unintentionally
affront you.'

Or intentionally. Well, doubtless you are right,
Barbara. Once my Barbara, my very own ! And I
let you go  fool, fool, fool !'

He held her hand, and drew a little nearer to
her  near enough to lay his left hand on her broad
calm forehead, looking into the sweet sad face, as

if he were trying to read the secrets which were
masked by that calm outlook.

What a lovely piece of marble you are ! How
self-possessed !' he muttered. * And you know nothing
of the battle I am fighting. Well, it is
natural. You belong to the calmer higher regions,
where all perfect things dwell apart : I to that
lower struggling mass of humanity which sins and
suffers.'

He led her to the door ; and so they parted, with
a show of tranquillity to the last  yes, even to the
last instant of parting. But five minutes later
Barbara was on her knees beside the sofa in her
dressing-room, sobbing out the agony of her wounded
heart.

Her letter, the letter breathing faithfulness, unselfish
devotion, recklessness of all that life could
bring, save himself and his love, that letter on which
hung the fate of two lives, had been flung to the
winds, and he had been left to think her cold and
base, heartless and mercenary. What must he
have thought of her, when he read of her marriage
with a rich man ?

Flossie, is it your fault that my life has
been spoiled ?' she thought, remembering that it
was to her sister's hands she had confided the letter.

Gilmore wondered and held her tongue, being
faithful to her mistress ; but the widow Morris told
Priscilla how Mrs. Penrith had stood by the 
window in close and earnest conversation
with a tall sunburnt stranger ; how they had clasped
hands, lingering as if loth to part; and how the
stranger had laid his hand upon Mrs. Penruth*s
brow, and looked at her as a brother  or a lover 
might have done.

Mrs. Morris had not been able to hear their
conversation, seeing that the wind was howling
boisterously all the time, and the lattice was
shut.

Not that I should have thought it any shame
to listen,' said the widow, with a virtuous air ; * for
when I have once attached myself to a lady I would
go through fire and water to serve her. And I
thought it my duty to acquaint you with what I
happened to see. I did not go out of my way to

VOL. II. Q

watch them, you see, miss ; but I was just stepping
out to call Mr. Mark's dog, and I happened to see
Mrs. Penrith and the gentleman standing in front
of the window, so wrapped up in each other that I
believe a regiment of soldiers might have gone by
without either of them taking notice.'

Priscilla shuddered. She had always expected
to have to shudder sooner or later about her sister-in-law,
so the shuddering hardly came upon her asa
surprise.

Did they kiss each other, Morris ?' she gasped
presently.

No, miss ; things didn't go quite so far as that.
I think if it had come to kissing I must have gone
away. But there are looks that mean as much as
kisses ; looks which no prudent young woman would
expose herself to.'

"What is to be expected from a girl so brought
up ? Her mother and father living apart ; no religious
bias on either side, a careless irreverent way
of looking at serious subjects. My poor brother is
lying on his sick-bed, and his wife takes that opportunity
for a clandestine interview with a former

lover; for I suppose, Morris, after what you saw,
there can be no doubt the man was a lover.'

He was too affectionate for a relation, miss ;
and I think I've heard you say that Mrs. Penrith
has no near relations.'

None that she has ever associated with.'

This gentleman is tall and dark ; he looks like
a foreigner, or a man who has lived abroad  in
India, perhaps.'

I believe I know who he is,' sighed Priscilla.
It is very bad, Morris. I don't think anything
could be worse. If he had approached the house
openly, I should have considered his visit a piece of
audacious insolence; but to come in this underhand
manner  '

Here Barbara entered the sitting-room, where
Miss Penrith was sipping her tea before a comfortable
fire, attended by the widow, while Vyvyan
slumbered in the adjoining bedchamber. The wife
had dried her tears and calmed herself, and had
been sitting quietly by her husband's bed.

You have had a visitor, I hear,' said Priscilla.
*Yes.'

Some ancient pensioner on your mother's
bounty T

My mother had no pensioners. She was not
rich enough to help other people, except in very
small ways. My visitor was a gentleman we were
intimate with some years ago  Major Leland. I
think you must have heard of him. He distinguished
himself lately in India.'

Yes, I think I have heard of him.'

I should like to have introduced him to Vyvyan,
if he had come at a happier time.'

I doubt if the introduction would have been
particularly gratifying to my brother; he has not
that admiration for the bloodthirsty character of a
soldier which is common to sentimental schoolgirls
and the Conservative papers,' answered Priscilla
acrimoniously.

She was intensely disappointed at Barbara's
frankness, as it would have better suited her temper
to convict her sister-in-law of profound dissimulation.


Later that evening, when the house-servants
were sitting over their comfortable supper in the

kitchen, with closed doors, and a general determination
to let their masters and mistresses shift for
themselves, Mrs. Morris walked up and down the
hall, with velvet footfall, waiting for some one.

The some one was Mark, who came in from the
back premises presently.

He looked round him cautiously in the dim light
before committing himself, and then went up to the
respectable Morris and gave her a hearty kiss.

'Well, little woman, how goes it ?' he asked.

Tell me about the boys first. You went over
to see them ?'

'Yes; it's a precious long way, and it was a
precious cold journey, to say nothing of being nearly
blinded with hail half the time.'

You might have gone inside the coach, Mark.'

Catch me putting myself in a packing-case
smelling of mouldy straw, and crammed with old
women and babies ! No, Molly ; I like a mouthful
of fresh air, and to smoke my cigar in peace and
quiet.'

And how are the boys ?'

Well and hearty, God bless them ; not learning

much, I fancy, for they seem to like their school.
The schoolmistress is a decent kind of person, and
all the pupils look well fed. I don't think our
young barbarians could be better off.'

'I'm very glad to hear that. Thank you forgoing,
Mark. I shall feel ever so much easier in
my mind now.'

Even Medea cared for her children, though she
had an odd way of showing it ; and no doubt Lady
Macbeth was as affectionate a mother as she was an
exemplary wife.

How's Vyvyan ?' asked Mark.

'Pretty much the same; but there's not much
amiss with him. He'll be all right in a few days.'

'I hope so, poor old chap,' said Mark, with
honest heartiness.

He had often vaguely contemplated his brother's
death as the necessary prelude to that millennium
during which he was to reign at Place ; but when it
came to the actual prospect of such an event, that
sediment of goodness at the bottom of his soul
was jerked suddenly to the top.

'And now I say, Molly,' he continued, while

she was helping him off with his coat, ' how long is
this blessed masquerading of yours to go on, and
what is to come of it when it's all over 7 Will you
be any nearer being acknowledged as my wife by
my brother and sister because you have lowered
yourself to act as their servant ?'

You leave it all to me,' said Molly, with tightened
lips. ' I have got round your sister already,
and I shall get round your brother before I've done
with him.'

But you've been in the house six months, and
see how little good has come of it. You're no nearer
your end than you were last March.'

Molly looked at him intently, but said nothing.

And look what a false position it is for me.
People would think me a hound if they knew it. '

Nobody will think you a hound when you are
master of this house, and when that fine young lady
yonder is out of it.'

Yes ; but that's talking of what may never
come to pass, what I don't even wish to come to
pass. When all is said and done, Vyvyan has been
a good brother to me ; and now  now that business

is going easier at the quarries  I feel a happier man
than I used to be, and I can afford to wish him a
long life.'

So can I, when he has acknowledged me as his
sister-in-law, and given my children their rights,'
answered Molly.

Do you think you'll ever bring him to that ?*

ado.'

HE WILL NOT LIVE TO BE AN OLD MAN.'

The cottage on the road from Camelot to St. Columb
was shut up, and Aunt Jooly had the key. It washer
privilege to look in occasionally and air the
rooms, and see that the furniture which Mrs. Peters
so highly valued suffered no damage by moths or
mildew, dust or vermin. People at Camelot expressed
some natural wonder at this change in the
state of affairs, and the popular opinion was that
the lady had indulged too freely in 'her tempers,'
and that Mark had plucked up a spirit and had
broken the bonds that held him. Everybody knew
where the three boys had gone. Had they not been
seen to depart with bag and baggage  otherwise a
large deal box and a small hamper  on the roof of
the St. Columb coach, early in the month of March,
in the care of the guard, who was accessible to the
offer of cider, aud not unwilling to say where he had
deposited his young charges ? But no one knew

precisely where Mrs. Peters had betaken herself,
though there was much speculative gossip floating,
and several Camelot people had cousins who had
seen or heard of the lady in London. One story
went so far as to say that she had taken to the
stage, and had been seen on the boards of a London
theatre, singing and dancing to the admiration of
the assembled multitude. There was a general idea
that a young woman from Camelot, possessed of
good looks and intelligence, might achieve immediate
distinction in London, and succeed in any walk
of life to which her fancy led her, having nothing to
fear from the rivalry of metropolitan millions.

The cottage being abandoned, there was now
nothing save inclination to draw Mark to Camelot ;
and his visits to that interesting town had become
few and far between. Yet he loved the place, and
was never happier or more at his ease than in the
stuffy billiard-room at the King's Arms.

On the evening after his journey to St. Columb
he rode into the narrow street between six and
seven o'clock, and put up his horse in the old
stable.

I am only going to stop an hour or so, Thomas,'
he told the ostler; and then he strolled round to
the front of the house, where Didcott and Nichols
were enjoying the sunset, and the prospect afforded
by the steep slope of the stony High-street, shut in
by the town-hall and market-place at the bottom of
the hi.

His friends had been talking earnestly as he
approached, but they stopped suddenly at sight of
him, and the doctor began to whistle an old song
dreamily, as if his thoughts were far away, while
Nichols greeted the new arrival with unusual animation;
whereby it occurred to Mark that their conversation
had been about him.

*What a stranger you are, old fellow!' said the
veterinary surgeon.

'I've been extra busy for the last few months.'

And you haven't much inducement to ride this
way now, eh ? Well, never mind that. How's the
Squire ?'

You had better ask Didcott. He knows more
than I do.'

Didcott never talks of a patient. Now if I have

a curious case in my line, I go talking of it everywhere.'


I don't think there's much amiss with my
brother bodily,' said Mark ; ' a heavy cold and a little
low fever. That's all, isn't it, Didcott ?'

That's about all there is in his present illness,'
answered the surgeon.

His present illness !' echoed Mark ; ' why, he
never was laid up before, within my memory ! He's
as strong as a horse ; or I should say as strong as a
horse ought to be ; for my experience of horses is
that they are the weakest things in creation.'

Yes, he has great vigour  a fine sinewy frame.
But I fancy he has been a little out of sorts for the
last month or so, has he not, Mark ?'

He has been dull, certainly  gloomy and out of
spirits ; but I did not put that down to his health.'
What else can disturb him ?'

Well, I don't know. I doubt if he is altogether
comfortable in his mind about that young wife of
his. She is very sweet, and behaves uncommonly
well; but I don't believe she's happy, and I think
Vyvyan sees that she isn't, and perhaps that preys

upon him. It's like having a bird in a cage, you
see. The fonder you are of the bird, the harder it
must hurt you if you see the poor thing beating it's
breast against the wires and pining to be free.'

*I can't cut it so fine as that, Mark,' said the
matter-of-fact family practitioner, who had been
ground so hard against the actualities of life that
the keen edge of his feelings had been somewhat
blunted. ' Your sister-in-law has got a splendid
home and a fine position in the county, and she
ought to be grateful to the man to whom she owes
them. It's all bosh to talk about a woman being
unhappy under such circumstances. My wife maybe
unhappy when all the children want boots, and
there isn't a shot in the locker; but for a woman
who  Bah ! Mrs. Penrith had better make much of
her husband and her home while she has them. She
won't have either of them for ever, perhaps.'

The three men were standing quite alone in
front of the inn-door; no one within hearing; the
sharp click of the balls sounding now and then from
the open window of the billiard-room.

There was a significance in the doctor's speech

which struck Mark  the 'I could an' if I would*
tone which is always unmistakable in a man who
possesses somebody else's secret, and only asks to be
tempted to betray it.

*Do you mean to say that my brother is not a
long-lived man ?' asked Mark.

Your father was not a long-lived man.'

My father died of heart-disease. I have just as
much need to be frightened at that as Vyvyan has.'

0, you're sound enough !' interjected Nichols.
I'd warrant you any day.'

'My brother looks every way sounder, and is
better built for strength and speed than I am,'
answered Mark, watching Didcott's face, which had
assumed a Sphinx-like impenetrability.

Come and smoke a cigar with me, old fellow,'
said the doctor, hooking his arm through Mark's.
We'll join you in the billiard-room presently,
Nichols. You can ask Marston to let us have our
revenge for that licking he gave us the last time
Penrith was here.'

All right,' answered Nicholls, who saw that confidences
were about to be exchanged.

Didcott and Mark walked up the hill, away from
the market-place and its distractions, which at this
evening hour generally took the shape of a vagabond
pig or an adventurous Cochin China hen and chickens.
Mark gave his friend a cigar and lighted one for
himself, while they strolled for a little way in silence,
and then Didcott spoke.

*I don't want to alarm you unduly, Mark,' he
began, * but I believe that, sooner or later, your brother
will go off just as your poor father did.'

Mark's heart gave a sudden leap, as if it also had
gone wrong. Was it sorrow, surprise, pleasure, that
so stirred and shook within him ? He could not tell.
For the moment he only knew that he was startled.

What ground have you for saying that ?'

The best possible ground. I have used the
stethoscope, and I know the extent of the mischief.
I should have liked your brother to have had a second
opinion, but he will not consent to see any one. He
told me to say nothing to your sister or you ; but I
feel that you ought to know the truth. It will make
you more considerate, more thoughtful, with your
brother.'

Of course, of course,' assented Mark. * Poor
Vyvyan ! And I thought that he had such a powerful
constitution. Sooner or later, you say, this complaint
must kill him. Do you mean that he may
live to he an old man, and go off suddenly at the end
of a long life ?'

Hardly. I have heard of such cases, but they
are rare. Your brother's attack was sharp  very
sharp  and I fancy he has had such attacks frequently
of late. I am afraid that the end cannot be
very far off. It might be a question of months, a
year or two perhaps, but he will not live to be an old
man.'

Poor Vyvyan !'

'Yes, poor fellow, rather hard upon him, isn't
it ? I hope he won't leave the estate to that young
wife of his, a stranger in the county.'

I don't think he will. He has provided for her
handsomely by a marriage settlement. She has a
life-interest in the Hallworthy estate.'

Quite enough too. Very handsome of your brother.
Well, Mark, I suppose there will be grand
doings at Place when you are master ?'

I shall keep a good stud of hunters and twelve
couple of harriers  you may be sure of that. People
shall not have to go fifteen miles for a day's sport.
But, God knows, I've no desire to shorten Vyvyan's
life. I wish there was nothing the matter with him,
poor fellow.'

Mark said this in all honesty ; yet when he was
riding across the moor that night, he could not keep
his imagination from forecasting the day when his
brother's estate should be his. Fancy overleaped all
the gloomy details of death and burial. Vyvyan's
figure disappeared from the picture, as if the very
ground had opened and swallowed him up alive, and
Mark saw himself lord of the good old house, the
capacious stables. He planned everything  the
quality of his hunters, the men he would have for
huntsman and feeder, the pedigree of his hounds.

It was late when he came within sight of the
lighted windows of Place, and fell down, like Al-paschal,
from the altitude to which imagination had
carried him, and remembered who and where he was.
The lamp burned dimly in his brother's room, dimly
in the hall. The rest of the windows were dark

VOL. II. R

He went into the stable-yard, gave his horse to the
sleepy helper, who was on the watch for him, and
then went in at the back-door. It was an unusual
thing for him to abandon his horse thus carelessly to
hireling hands, and the helper was the lowest drudge
in the stable; but to-night Mark's mind was big
with weighty thoughts. He could not stop to see
that his favourite Pepper was properly bedded down.

Molly, otherwise Mrs. Morris, was in the sickroom.
Mark knew pretty well where to find her at
this hour. Every one else would have gone to bed,
and her office of night-watcher would have begun.
During her husband's illness, Mrs. Penrith had occupied
a bedroom on the other side of her dressing-room.
It was near enough to the invalid's room for
her to be within call.

Mark opened the door softly and peeped in. The
nurse was sitting by the fire musing, with her arms
folded, and her feet on the fender. The curtains of
the big four-post bed were drawn on the side nearest
the light.

Asleep ?' whispered Mark, with a glance towards
the bed.

Mrs. Morris nodded ' yes ;' whereupon Mark
beckoned, and she followed him out into the corridor.


A lamp was burning near, and the dim light
showed Mark's pale and agitated countenance.

What is the matter ?' asked Molly eagerly.
Has anything happened ?'

'Yes, I have heard something ; something awful,'
he answered, looking cautiously up and down the
corridor. ' Are they all in bed ?'

An hour ago. What is it, Mark ? What have
you heard ?' asked the woman breathlessly.

I have heard something from Didcott  about
my brother,' said Mark, grasping her by the arm.

It was Molly's face that paled now; her lips
trembled momentarily, and then grew calm.

What has he got to say ?' she asked, in her
hard matter-of-fact tone.

He does not think that Vyvyan can live many
years  perhaps not many months. He has my
father's complaint, heart-disease. Didcott has found
it out. He is doomed, poor fellow. And you will
have your wish, Molly, sooner than you or I could

ever have hoped. We shall be master and mistress
here, little woman, unless Vyvyan should make a
will in his wife's favour.'

Not much chance of that while I am here.'

What could you do to prevent it ?'

'A good deal. I know things that would turn
your brother against his wife, and rightly too ; and
if it was needful I should tell him what I know.
Whatever chance she had a month ago has gone
now.'

Why so ?'

Because your brother wouldn't care to leave this
place to his wife's Indian lover ; and if he left it to
her it would come to that. What do you say to the
gentleman being in Cornwall  close by  at Rock-port
? Do you suppose your brother would like to
know that ?'

The man has a right to be in Cornwall if he
chooses,' answered Mark. ' There is no treason in
that.'

Isn't there ? Do you suppose that he has any
motive for coming to Cornwall except the hope of
seeing her ? He has seen her once ; and no doubt he

will see her again. But never mind that. Make
your mind easy about your brother's will. That
shall be all right. Tell me everything Didcott said.
How long has he known about this complaint of your
brother's ?'

Only within the last month. He may have
suspected it before, because, you see, my father died
in the same way.'

Yes, yes ; I understand. Heart-disease ? And
he may go off any day, suddenly ?'

I'm afraid so. And I say, Molly, if he does, and
if your time for being mistress here should come
soon, don't you think you'll find yourself in a very
awkward position ? You will be recognised by everybody
here as the woman who crept into the house
disguised as a servant.'

I shall manage matters somehow, Mark. I have
kept myself so close  I never talk to any one but
your sister  that no one would know me if I were to
take off my cap and alter my hair. You hardly knew
me that night at the cottage.'

Well, I must confess you've made an uncommon
guy of yourself ; but still  '

We are not obliged to begin life at Place immediately.
We can go to London for a year or so,
and get rid of all the old servants while we are
away.'

Get rid of the servants ! Why, I shouldn't
know myself amongst a lot of strange faces !'

That's because you are so narrow-minded, Mark,'
answered Molly contemptuously. * But don't you
bother your poor brains about me ; I shall brazen
things out, you may depend upon it.'

You're such a clever woman, it would be difficult
for any one to put you in a hole,' said Mark ;
but I can't say I like the way we are going on just
now.'

Isn't it something gained to have got the blind
side of your sister ?'

My sister hasn't any blind side, Molly. She
likes you as a servant ; but she would turn against
you tomorrow if she knew the truth.'

Let her turn ; turn and turn out at the same
time. When you are once owner of Place we can
do "without her.'

I don't feel very eager for that day,' said Mark,

forgetting his castle-building of half an hour ago.
I can't bring myself to wish my brother in his
grave.'

No, nor to wish your wife righted. You have
no more feeling than a jelly-fish. Good-night.'

Mrs. Morris emphasised this leave-taking with
an indignant flounce of her petticoats, and went back
to her duty in the sick-room.

SOONER OR LATER.

The cold and fever passed away, cured by rest,
warmth, and demulcent diet, or by Mr. Didcott's
saline draughts and daily scrutiny of the patient's
tongue. Vjvyan was able to get about again, and
Mrs. Morris was released from her night-watching.
But the master of Place was not the man he had
been before his illness. Everybody in the household
saw the change in him, and each commented upon it
after his or her fashion.

It was not forgotten in that household how
Vyvyan's father had fallen down dead in the little
study one winter evening, after playing the host at
an audit dinner, and riding fifteen miles through
rain and wind, a stalwart hearty-looking man in the
prime of life. In his case there had been no warning
hale and vigorous to-day, and measured for his

coffin tomorrow ; but in his son's face the old servants
fancied they saw a prophetic look, the forecast
of doom.

The master's horses stood idle in their stalls, or
were exercised, when arrived at a stage of dangerous
ferocity, by a groom : but Vyvyan went no more upon
his accustomed round of inspection. Plough and
harrow went over the naked hills, but he was not by
to see. He sat by the fire in his study, idly skimming
yesterday's papers, and waiting for his sentence
to be fulfilled. He had made up his mind that he
was shortly to die, and life had lost all zest for him.
He felt only the agony of regret at parting with the
land he had loved so well and cared for so sedulously
the farms and the manors, whose catalogue was
graven on his heart. The keenest sting of death was
in the surrender of these  of these and of the wife
who had never loved him.

He had suffered from an occasional return of the
heart-attack, sometimes in a stronger, sometimes ina
weaker, form ; but let it cOme when it would, after
a short interval or a long one, the character of the
seizure was always the same  the same deathlike

faintness, the same dull action of the labouring
heart. The nature of the malady was unmistakable.


 My father had no such warning,' Vyvyan said to
himself; ' I ought to consider myself favoured. Yet
I think if I were going to be blown from the muzzle
of a gun, I would rather stand with my back to it
and let the explosion come unawares, than enjoy the
privilege of looking into the cannon's mouth for a
week or two before my flesh and bones were scattered
into space.'

Not only were these attacks painful and exhausting
when they came. The effect upon his spirits
and his nerves was worse than the bodily evil.
The physical ailment passed away, and left him,
to all appearance, no worse a man than before it
came ; but the mental suffering was lasting. Vyvyan
lived in hourly dread of an attack, and at every
severer seizure he told himself, ' This is the end.'
Recovery brought no sense of relief. It was like
being dragged out of a river by the hair of his
head, only to be flung in again half an hour afterwards.
Better to have been drowned, and to have

made an end of it, since the end must come sooner
or later.

Sooner or later  that was the tune to which his
life was set in these dark autumnal days. The old
clock in the hall ticked ' sooner or later.' The same
words sounded in the falling of the ashes on the
hearth, in the sighing of the wind among the trees.
Sooner or later !

*I had letter make my will,' he said to himself
one morning. 'It must be done, sooner or later.
I've been an orderly man all my life, and I don't
want to die with my affairs in confusion.'

He sent for Marston, the Camelot solicitor, who
attended to much of his local business, and the
two were closeted together for a long morning.
The will was just, and not ungenerous. It gave
the land to Mark, in the event of the testator
dying without children. It gave the quarries to
Priscilla, who was well off without them. It gave
annuities to some old servants, legacies to others,
large sums to county charities, mementoes of more
or less value to a few old friends. To his wife
the Squire bequeathed his mother's jewels  which

reposed comfortably in the Launceston bank, and
had not been seen by mortal eyes for the last
twenty years  in token of his affection ; and he
renounced for his heirs, executors, and assigns all
power of appointment over the reversionary interest
in the Hallworthy estate.

He knew that Major Leland had been at Place,
that he was still in the neighbourhood, and might
be seen from time to time riding a thick-set hunter
over the moor, and riding like a man who held his
life at a pin's fee. Priscilla had taken care to
acquaint her brother with his rival's visit ; but she
had not expatiated upon the meeting between Barbara
and her former lover. It was enough that
Vyvyan should know they had met.

And will meet again, no doubt,' he told himself.
* Why should I be angry or wretched because
he is near ? Can I part them for ever, for a year
even ? I shall be in my grave, and they will be
happy together, before the world is a year older.
I know that she will behave with womanly dignity,
and will respect the name I have given her. She
will not marry in undue haste. She will not

expose herself to scandal before marriage. She
will do her duty to me dead, as she has done her
duty to me living.'

When he had made his will he tried to resign
himself, or at the least to accustom himself, to the
idea that Mark would soon be master of the land,
and sitting in his place. Mark had been very steady
of late. He spent his evenings in the gloomy old
house, sitting by the hearth, with his famous lemons
spaniel, which was supposed to be a most
perfect thing in spaniels, lying at his feet. He
made feeble efforts to read the London papers, after
devouring the local journals ; but the drama of
London life, political and social, was to him as
far off and as uninteresting as might have been a
tragedy enacted in the planet Neptune. Mark's
mind was essentially local. He could not push
his ideas across the boundary-line of his daily life,
the figures which had made the sum of his existence
from boyhood  his own and his neighbours' horses,
his own and his neighbours' dogs. If he tried to
picture to himself a foreign racecourse, he fancied
the horses of a different kind from those that ran at

home  half zebra, or with a touch of the camel.
The continent of Europe was to his mind a nebulous
world. His only idea of strange lands was that
they contained nothing natural or civilised, and
could offer no form of life worth living.

The long autumn evenings at Place hung heavily
upon the whole family. Yyvyan sat brooding by
the fire; Barbara sitting near him, ready to talk
if he pleased, silent when he was silent. Priscilla
travelled slowly along the endless paths of a Penelope's
web, in the shape of a wool-work border of
roses and lilies for a set of window-curtains, in
which every flower was the labour of a week. Mark
longed exceedingly for some one who would play
cribbage with him ; or for a family circle sociable
enough for all-fours ; or for a billiard-table ; and
having none of these amusements, pulled the
spaniel's ears and yawned behind his limp local
paper.

And all this time George Leland was sitting
in the comfortable parlour at the Waterloo Inn,
Stockport, whence the last of the tourists had
departed, and where he had the house to himself.

He stayed, tliougli he knew that it was idle and
foolish in him to stay there. He cherished no
evil design, he nursed no wicked hope ; but life,
blighted and maimed though it was, tasted sweeter
to him while he was near Barbara.

IT IS THE COMMON LOT.'

Having hardened himself to the making of his will,
Yyvyan found it easier to bear the thought of that
time when another should reign in his place. The
idea could never become pleasant to him, for he
fondly loved the possessions which he had to surrender.
He felt like some ancient spinster who
looks over the accumulated treasures of years,
daintily put away in some perfumed receptacle  the
old lace, the odd pieces of silk and satin, the ribbons
of a bygone fashion  and tries to determine which
of all these she can best bear to give away ; and in
the end shuts the lid of her treasure-chest, and
leaves all her belongings inside. She may never
again array herself in these fineries ; but it is' a joy
to possess them. So with Vyvyan : the idea of letting
go the wealth which he had used so little
gnawed like a vulture at his heart. Yet at the

worst he was a man, and could school himself to
play a manly part.

He called Mark into his study one morning in
October, about a fortnight after that revelation of
Mr. Didcott's, and motioned him to the chair on the
opposite side of the hearth.

'I want a little serious talk with you,' he said.

Mark winced. Affairs were straight at the quarries
now, thanks to Mr. Maulford's skilful sliding
over of all past difficulties. Mark had been dealing
honestly with his brother's money ever since that
auditing of his accounts, and meant to keep the
straight path in future. After all it was much
easier going than the crooked road upon which he
had so nearly travelled to destruction.

But if his business affairs were in a comfortable
condition his domestic situation was embarrassing,
and Mark's heart sank within him at sight of his
brother's gloomy face.

I want to talk about the future  your future,
Mark,' pursued Vyvyan.

Don't worry yourself about that,' Tered
Mark.

VOL. II. a

*But I must worry myself. I must face the
inevitable. My father had no warning of his end.
He had no time in which to regulate his affairs, and
to plan the work that was to be done on the land
when he should be no longer by to superintend the
doing of it. I am more fortunate.' His lip curled
with a grim smile. * I have reason to believe that
there is something organically wrong here,' touching
his heart, * and that I may some day die suddenly,
as my father died. It may be long before that day
comes. Sufferers from heart-disease have lived to
extreme old age. But it is well to be prepared for
the worst.'

Dear old fellow, may you live to the close of the
century !' said Mark, stretching out his hand, which
Vyvyan grasped in silent cordiality.

'Thank you, Mark,' he answered quietly. *I
know you wish me well ; but we must be prepared.
There was a time when I felt curiously sensitive
upon this subject. I could not bear that either you
or Priscilla should know. I told Didcott to keep
the matter a secret. But since I have made my
will, and settled everything, I can bear to look the

future in the face. We must all die, Mark. It is
the common lot.'

Yes,' sighed Mark, who felt as if it were a common
lot which could not fall to him for the next
fifty years or so.

I have made my will.'

Indeed !' said Mark, with a gasp.

He felt that his features were slightly agitated,
in spite of his endeavour to compose them. The
muscles about his mouth refused to be steady.

Yes ; I have done what I believe is right,' pursued
Yyvyau ; and then he sat silently staring at
the fire, while Mark's heart beat furiously, and his
breath grew short.

1 have left you the whole of the land, except
Hallworthy.'

Yyvyan,' cried Mark, ' what a princely gift !'
He leant forward and grasped his brother's

hands, and bent his face over them, and Yyvyan felt
Mark's tears falling on him in large drops like a
summer shower. The sudden revelation had stirred
all that was kindly and warm in the younger brother's
weak soul.

How good you are to me !' he exclaimed, controlling
these mingled emotions of joy and gratitude
and brotherly love. ' I don't deserve so
much.'

Don't talk about desert. The land was our
father's. I have added a great deal ; but that was
done for my own pleasure. You are the natural
heir. To whom else should I leave it ? To my wife,
who would raise up the children of a stranger to
inherit the soil ? No, Mark. It is much to me to
know that the old name will be associated with the
old place ; that the old coat of arms on the ceilings
will belong to those who inhabit the house. You
must marry, Mark ; the sooner the better.'

Mark bent his head again, this time to hide the
flood of crimson that dyed his face.

You must make a marriage worthy of my heir,'
continued Vyvyan. ' You have been much steadier
of late, I know. I hope you have shaken yourself
free from all discreditable associations  from all,
Mark. I have never pried into your life ; but I have
heard things said about you. People will talk, even
to a man who is as little of a gossip as I am. I

hope that connection at Camelot is all over and clone
with, Mark.'

What could Mark say ? These are the moments
of life when a weak soul takes refuge in prevarication.

Yes,' answered Mark, ' there is no one I care
for at Camelot now.'

I am glad of that. Have you ever thought of
marrying ?'

*Not of late sears.'

'We live such a lonely life here  my fault, I
know. I hate strange faces. But you must look
about you, Mark. There is my wife's sister, now, a
bright lively girl. You seemed to take to her, and
she to you. She might make you a nice wife.'

Mark breathed a heartrending sigh. He could
but think of what a man's life might be with such a
companion as Flossie, and of what it was with such
a wife as Molly.

No,' he said hastily, * it's no good thinking of
that. She's a nice girl, but she doesn't care a straw
about me.'

She might be made to care for you,' urged his
brother. * She has never had a lover.'

No, Vyvyan ; don't talk about it, please. You
pain me.'

I understand,' said Vyvyan, who concluded that
Mark had made Flossie an offer, and had been rejected.
* Well, you will find some one soon, I hope.
I should like to see you married before I go.'

Mark gave his brother's hand another squeeze,
but said nothing.

'If I dared tell him !' he thought ; ' but, mild as he
seems just at this moment, he would disinherit mein
a trice if he knew how I stood with poor Molly.'

Give me the map of the estate out of that
drawer, Mark, and let us go over it together,' said
Vyvyan.

Mark found the map in the bottom drawer of an
old-fashioned brass-handled bureau. It was on a
six-inch scale, and presented a noble appearance
when spread out upon the owner's desk ; a vast area
of fields and pastures, wood and coppice, painted a
delicate pink, with intervening patches and intervals
of blue which denoted lands belonging to foreign
powers. To Vyvyan it was the chart of the world.
He cared for nothing outside it. Mountains and

rivers and oceans, the mighty monuments of the
past, the splendours of the present, were to him as
nothing, set against the soil he had inherited from
his father, and had increased by thrift and carefulness.
The wonders of earth might interest others ;
he cared only for the things that were his own.

He and Mark sat gloating over the map, discussing
the merit of various tenants, the value of each
particular farm, for nearly two hours, Yyvyan advising
upon the minutest details of management with
an exact knowledge of every acre. At last he rolled
up the map, and confessed himself tired.

I miss my long rides over the moor,' he said ;
hut I think perhaps it's better to avoid violent
exertion.'

In spite of his abhorrence of doctors and regimen,
he had unconsciously formed new rules for his
life. His dread of those horrible attacks made him
cautious. He remembered that one seizure had occurred
after a hard ride, and on this account he had
given up riding. The want of open-air exercise, to
which he had been accustomed all his life, increased
the depression of his spirits, till he had neither inclination

nor energy to leave the fireside. His wife
saw the alteration in his health and habits, and advised
him to try change of air and scene ; but he
put her anxieties lightly aside.

 My dear, there is nothing the matter with me,'
he said ; ' I am well enough.'

You never ride or drive now,' she said.
*No, I am more comfortable at home.'
And then he found himself wondering whether
she wanted him out of the way ; whether, if he were
absent all the day through, as he had been so often
of old, her lover would find some means of seeing
her  her first, fond, unforgotten lover, who had taken
up his abode so near.

I am falling into stay-at-home habits as I get
older,' he said, after a brief pause, looking at her
not altogether unkindly, yet with a shade of suspicion.
' You will have me as a fixture by the hearth
henceforward. I hope you will not consider me a
nuisance.'

Yyvyan, is it not your natural place ?'
It might be pleasant enough for you if I were
younger and brighter; but a husband of my age.

who has SO few ideas in common with his wife, ought
to spend the greater part of his time out of doors.'

Why do you say such things, Vyvyan ?' his wife
asked reproachfully. ' Have I ever seemed to be
tired of your company T

No,' he answered shortly, turning from her with
a sigh ; ' you seem perfection. Yes,' with a kinder
tone, ' I am sure you are all that is good and pure.
I have no complaint against you ; yet  sometimes 
I feel as if  the world was out of joint.'

He ended with a stifled sob, and covered his
face \\4th his rugged sinewy hands, the hands of a
labourer living by the sweat of his brow, rather than
of the lord of the soil. Barbara was on her knees
beside him in a moment.

Vyvyan, I am sure you are not well ?'

Yes, I am well ; as well as I am ever likely to
be till I am lying in the old churchyard beside my
father and mother. Better for us both when I am
gone, Barbara. You have done your duty to me.
You might have done less, and still have been
blameless ; for I took you knowing that you married
me for your mother's sake, for the pitiful pittance

my wealth afforded to your people, not for any sordid
love of money on your own part. I married you
knowing this; and yet I have been miserable for
lack of your love.'

But, Yyvyan, your kindness has won my love.
I do love you.'

After a fashion. Not as you loved your Indian
captain.'

No,' she answered, crimsoning ; ' such love as
that can come only once in a lifetime. You might
be as young as he, ever so much handsomer, braver,
better, yet I could never love you as I loved him
That love was given once, and given for ever.'

You are not ashamed of your love,' said Yyvyan.

I am not ashamed of the truth. I am talking
to you of the past. Why should I lie to you ?'

Why indeed ? But would you be as truthful
about the present ? I suppose you know that your
former lover is in the neighbourhood ?'

Yes.'

Have you no desire to see him ?'

I have seen him once. But I am sure Priscilla
has told you all about that.'

You are right. Lie has.'

He came to see me. He had been told, by an
enemy of mine, that I was unhappy, and he came to
see for himself if it was so. There was nothing in
this that a friend might not do. He was glad to
know that I was happy in my married life.'

0, he was glad, was he ? And who was the
enemy who told him you were unhappy ?'

Mr. Maulford.'

Mr. Maulford ! I don't know what reason he
could have for making mischief.'

'None, except a malevolent nature.'

Humph ! I know you dislike Maulford.'

You see that I had some justification for my
dislike.'

Apparently. And so Major Leland, being home
for sick-leave, finds Stockport air suit him better
than any other ? Well, I suppose I have no right
to complain of that, so long as he keeps clear of my
house. But I should strongly object to any more
visits, surreptitious or otherwise. 0, by the way, is
it not a long time since your mother and sister were
here?'

Not quite a year.'

No ? Well, let them come again whenever they
and you like. Your life must be dismal enough in
this old house. It is not much of a privilege for
you to have your mother and sister's company.'

It is a very great privilege for me. But I'm
afraid Miss Penrith will not like their coming.'

Miss Penrith can dislike it. You are mistress
here. You married me for your mother's sake. It
would be hard if you could not see her when you
like.'

Are you sure that it will not worry you to have
them here, Vyvyan, now that you are a little out of
health ?'

I am not out of health ; and nothing worries
me but the idea that you are unhappy i'

END OF VOL. II.

LONDON" :
ROBSON AND SONS, PRINTERS, PAXCRS ROAD, N.W

-L

air Fly

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS

UKc/ li>lWSf

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

BARBARA;

HER SPLEmD MISERY, AND HER (Gilded CAGE

5. Babel

BY THE AUTHOR OF

lady AUDLEY'S SECliET/ 'Vixen

IX THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

LONDON

JOHN AND ROBERT MAXWELL

MILTON HOUSE, SHOE LANE, FLEET STREET
fall RujUs resented]

1,1

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAP.

I. Flossie admits her Guilt .
II. Flossie's happy Thought

III. A friendly Warning

IV. * Unfriended, new-adopted to our Hate'
V. * Why should I thank hdi ]'

VI. Links in the Chain

VII. On a dark Road

viii. Mark is warned

IX. *It casts a Cloud upon the whole Household'



X. Business for Aunt Jooly .
XI. Dearer than ;[oNEY

XII. Clearing the Atmosphere .

XIII. A NEW Generation

XIV. Sweeter than marriage-bells

XV. The Fortune of War
XVI. Need Cloth and Olive-leaves

Epilogue

Page
T




















in 2009 with funding from

University of IllinCHAPTER I.

Fossil ADMITS HER GUILT.

Mrs. Trevornock and Flossie were quick to respond
to Barbara's summons.

The little house in South-lane was a very pleasant
abode in these latter days, when there was
always a certainty of sending the tax-gatherer away
rejoicing, and Amelia could have butcher's meat as
often as the most pampered footman on Denmark-hill,
were she so inclined. Friendly tea-drinkings
occasionally enlivened the monotony of domestic
life ; and once in a way Mrs. Trevornock would indulge
her daughter with a visit to a West-end
theatre. Their circle of friends widened a little, for
Mrs. Trevornock, with a daughter married to a
VOL. III. B

wealthy Cornish squire, and a nevv carpet in her
drawing-room, took higher rank than of old among
her acquaintance, and was asked to more stately tea-parties.


Flossie was admired, and it was prophesied hy
friendly matrons that she too would make a brilliant
marriage in due time ; she might not, perhaps, enrol
herself among the landed gentry; but there were
wealthy disasters and millionaire soap-boilers floating
on the surface of Camberwell society, and who
could tell when one of these might be drawn into
Flossie's net ?

And then she must have such opportunities at
her sister's country seat,' observed the matrons ;
whereon Mrs. Trevornock was fain to confess that
Penrith Place was like heaven, insomuch as there
was neither marrying nor giving in marriage
there.

But, dull as the old Cornish mansion was, the
mother was always delighted to go there, and Flossie
rejoiced at the variety of dulness, which gave Camberwell
 and the shops in the Wal worth-road  a new
zest when she went back.

And so Miss Penrith is at home, and we are to
be honoured with her exhilarating society this time,
are we ?' said Flossie, when she had opened her box
and shown Barbara her new garments, which were of
the latest Paris fashion, as interpreted by a Camberwell
dressmaker.

'Yes, dear, and I hope you will be polite to
her.'

Polite ! I will be as elaborately civil as a character
in an old comedy, "Madam, you are vastly
obliging;" 'I protest, madam, you overwhelm me
with your undeserved condescension." Will that
kind of thing please her, do you think, Bab ?'

'Don't talk nonsense, Flossie. Be as polite as
you can; and if she should say anything disagreeable,
hold your tongue.'

That is just the one thing I cannot do,' protested
Flossie. ' If she gird at me I must gird
again, though I were to risk being forbidden her
brother's house for ever after.'

Flossie, I want to ask you a serious question,'
said Barbara.

It was the night of Flossie's arrival. The visitors

had dined and refreshed themselves, and now
it was bedtime, and the sisters were standing side
by side in front of the fire in Flossie's room.

!' said Flossie, looking nervous.

Major Leland is in England.'

I should call that a statement, and not a question,'
said Flossie, trying to be flippant, but inwardly
disturbed.

He is in Cornwall. I have seen him.'

'0,' said Flossie, 'I hope he is very well, and
that he  enjoyed himself  in India.'

Flossie, where did you post that letter I gave
you the day I was ill, the last letter I ever wrote to
Captain Leland ?'

Flossie gasped, and turned pale.

'Where did I post it? I  well, I suppose
it must have been at the watchmaker's, where
the man was always so civil, you know. He's a
German  or perhaps a Swiss, as he's connected
with watches. The people in Switzerland seem to
devote all their energies to making watches, and
taking the bread out of the mouths of the people in
Coventry.'

The letter never reached him, Flossie. Our
fate, his and mine, depended upon that one little
letter, and he never received it.'

I suppose if he had got the letter you andjhe
would have been married ?' asked Flossie.

*Yes.'

Then what a blessing that he didn't get it !
Think of the difference in your position as mistress of
this house, and as an East India Company's Major's
wife ! For you know, Bab, it was all very well while
he was sending in strawberries and salmon and
things, we could afford to blind ourselves to the
truth; but the Company's service does not rank as
high as the Queen's. I'm sure, if the letter did go
astray, you ought to be very grateful to Providence
for that lucky accident.'

Yes,' said Barbara bitterly, ' it has made a wide
difference in my life. As George's wife I should
have been happy.'

'If you are not happy in a house that was built
in the time of Cromwell, you have neither artistic
taste nor gratitude to God for His mercies,' said
Flossie, with a religious air. ' And then think how

comfortable you have been able to make poor overworked
ma. A Company's officer could not have
given you six hundred a year.'

Well, there is consolation in that ; and Vyvyan
is very good to me. Do not think that I am ungrateful
to him, or to Providence. But I want to
know about that letter. I cannot understand why
that one letter, on which so much depended, should
have gone astray. Are you quite sure you posted it,
Flossie ?'

I'm quite sure I didn't,' cried Flossie, falling on
her knees and bursting into tears. ' I cannot be
such a horrid little story-teller as to say I did. I
lost the letter, Bab dearest ; and ma and I put our
heads together in the kitchen, and we both felt that
it was much better for you that the letter had not
gone, though there was no knowing whether some
officious person in the street wouldn't pick it up and
post it ; and we determined to say nothing to you
about it ; and the consequence is that you are the
wife of one of the richest men in Cornwall, and ought
to be as happy as the days are long.'

Flossie, you have done your best to break two

hearts !' cried Barbara, covering her pale indignant
face with her clasped hands. * And my mother knew
of this, my mother joined in the plot against me, my
mother whom I have loved so dearly !'

'And you were in duty bound to love her,' argued
the indomitable Flossie, who had dried her tears, and
prepared herself for action. ' Think how unselfish
she has been ; how she has always sacrificed her own
pleasure and her own comfort for ours ; how she has
waited upon us and cherished us, and has been father
and mother both to us. Is it a great thing even if
you have sacrificed your own happiness, or what you
think would have been your own happiness, in order
to make her declining years free from care ? I am
sure I would have married the vulgares soap-boiler
in Camberwell, a creature who only aspirates by
accident, if by such a marriage I could have secured
comfort for my mother.'

You are right, perhaps. I ought to be grateful
for your carelessness and sour want of candour,'
Barbara answered bitterly. * But I know George
Leland would not have let my mother starve. She
would have been cared for, God bless her !'

BARBARA.

I suppose you would have sent ma a ten-pound
note once in a blue moon, and would have called
that helping your family !' ejaculated Flossie contemptuously.


Good-night,' said Barbara coldly ; and so she
left the delinquent, who knew not whether to consider
herself forgiven.

Mark felt his life hedged round with danger
after Flossie's arrival at Place. Molly had taken
it into her head to be jealous of that young lady;
and as there were eyes to see and tongues to report
to her all that went on in the house, Mark felt as
if he were for ever under observation. And Flossie,
having no one else of the male sex to amuse her,
took it into her head to be particularly fascinating
to Mark, especially as she wanted to ride one of his
horses.

Mark's stud had been severely reduced to two 
the useful Pepper, and a thick-set brown cob, impossible
for a lady to ride, and not too possible fora
gentleman.

Flossie's indoor amusements at Place were



limited to novel-reading, fancy work, playing with
Mark's dogs, and eating clotted cream in every possible
form. Even these mild enjoyments were
made less enjoyable by the presence of Miss Pen-ruth,
whose countenance since the young lady's
coming had fixed itself in a stony disapprobation.
Flossie's invention was exercised in finding corners
where Priscilla's severe gray eye could not reach
her. She would sit on the carpet in the embrasure
of a window, screened from view by a curtain that
smelt of bygone centuries, gloating over Currer
Bell or Mrs. Marsh; and would emerge from her
retreat at the sound of the luncheon-bell, smiling
defiance at the offended spinster, who had been
wondering where she was all the morning.

Out of doors Flossie was free as air. She
made friends with all the bipeds and quadrupeds
in the stable. She drove Barbara's ponies, with a
delightful ignorance of the first principles of driving;
and it was only the innate virtue and discretion
of those two amiable Norwegians and the primeval
solitude of the roads that saved her from ruin and
death. Mrs. Trevornock sat by her daughter's

side in happy unconsciousness of clanger, and admired
Flossie's skill and style on the driving-box.


 You really are a very clever girl,' she would
say mildly. ' It seems to come natural to you to do
things right.'

That shows the advantage of not having all
one's talent ground out of one by a schoolmistress,
ma. I really ought to be thankful to Mr. T. for never
having expended sixpence on my education. I
daresay if I had been carefully trained at an expensive
boarding-school, I should be as commonplace
as other girls.'

Flossie took to horsemanship just as she took
to driving. She was utterly fearless, and she
possessed a talent for sticking to her saddle. Beyond
this her gifts were small; but Mark admired
her boldness and her firm seat, and consented to
lend her even the illustrious gray Pepper, a horse
out of which he expected to make money before he
had done with him. On Pepper, Flossie scoured
the moor far and wide, sometimes attended by a
groom on one of Yyvyan's horses, sometimes alone.

She had serious thoughts of climbing Brown Willy.
She could not ascertain that the feat had ever been
performed by an equestrian, and this made the idea
so much the more attractive.

Flossie's happy thought.

RocKPORT is one of those places which might have
been left out of the world without making much
difference in the history of mankind ; and yet there
are few finer or bolder bits of coast scenery upon the
rugged western point of England. It is not so grand
a spot as the Land's End, nor so lovely as that pinnacle
of many-coloured rock crowned with the Logan
Stone, nor so striking as the Lizard ; but the green
hills and gray rocks of that quiet bay, the steep village
street, the background of mountain and moor,
the winding roads between ferny banks by which the
stranger descends from the great Gorse Moors to the
little harbour by the water's edge, the parish church
among green fields, the cottages and gardens perched
anyhow on the edge of a rugged hill-side,  all these
are as picturesque and as interesting as anything to
be found in Cornwall or in Brittany.

Here, at the cosy inn, kept by kindly people, and

running over with the fatness of the land, Major
Leland found a halting-place of most exquisite repose,
after the troubled days of the year that was gone.
He had come back to England seriously ill  come
back, as he thought, to die ; and it seemed to him as
if it could matter very little to any one, not even to
Vyvyan Penrith, where he spent the last few weeks
of his life.

I don't want to make the husband uncomfortable,'
he said to himself; ' but for me it is a kind of
happiness to know that I am near the woman I shall
love till my heart ceases to beat.'

The quiet beauty of the place and its surroundings
pleased him. He was just able to climb' to the
topmost green point above the sea, and to lie and
rest there, smoking his cigar, watching the waves
roll in and the gulls skimming whitely above the
white crest of lead-coloured water, idly thinking of
summer nights more than a year ago, when he had
stood on the ridge at Delhi, under the purple Indian
sky and the big bright stars, watching the glancing
lights in the accursed city, where the old king and
his favourites were holding their revels in the palace

of the Great Mogul, the Centre of the Universe, the
Shadow of God on Earth, in the hall on whose walls
the boastful conqueror had inscribed, * If there is a
paradise upon earth, it is here.' The day soon came
when the Shadow of God on Earth sat upon an old
charity, or four-legged bedstead, in that splendid
hall where the peacock throne once shed its rainbow
light, to be tried for his life by the power he had defied
and outraged, and to be sent thence to finish the
remnant of his days as a convict in the Andaman.

Sometimes the mornings were fair and sunny,
and the sea took its summer hues of emerald and
amethyst, and a mistaken bee came humming across
the flowerless thyme in search of a belated harebell
or the last tuft of clover. Vessels passed and vanished
on the distant horizon ; but they carried no
thought of George Leland with them. He felt as if
he had done with all the earth except just this lonely
corner of his native island. He spent many a tranquil
hour in the old churchyard on the hill, and it
was sweetly sad to him to think that he might lie
there before very long, and that Barbara might come
some day and kneel beside his grave.

His sisters would gladly have had him among
them in Somersetshire, where three out of the four
were prosperously settled, and where he would have
been nursed and petted exceedingly ; hut he shrank
from the very thought of that loving circle. He
wanted to be alone with his grief, now that the busy
work of life was over  such work as he had done
in India, which had left him so little leisure for
thought.

Years had gone since the parting on board the
Hesper, yet the girl he had clasped in his arms that
day was no less dear to him. He had surrendered
her of his own accord, believing that to do so was his
duty, and he had loved her so much the more because
of that surrender. Never had she been dearer to
him than when he wrote the letter that renounced
her. Never had she been lovelier in his eyes than
on that day when he saw her again in her matronly
pride and dignity, bearing herself calmly and nobly,
true and faithful to her loveless marriage-bond.

He had no thought of seeking a second interview,
of introducing himself to her husband. She had
said that they might meet as friends, that nothing

forbade them to be friends ; but his stronger soul
revolted against such a mockery of friendship.

She must be all the world to me, or nothing
he told himself.

No one at the Waterloo Inn, Stockport, knew that
he had any acquaintance with the family at Place.
He was only known to his landlord and landlady as
an Indian officer who had come to mend a broken
constitution on that breezy coast. He soon won the
liking of host and hostess, and, the inn being almost
empty at this time of year, they devoted themselves
to making him comfortable. From his landlady,
who was inclined to indulge herself now and then
with a cheerful gossip. Major Leland contrived to
hear a good deal about Barbara and the family at
Place. He heard how good she was, how the servants
liked and respected her, how kind she had
been, in her quiet unpretentious way, to the poor.

Miss Penrith used to set herself up as the
Lady Bountiful to all the district,' said Mrs. Thomas
of the Waterloo ; ' but Mrs. Penrith gives a sovereign
where her sister-in-law would give sixpence,
and makes no fuss about it. And everybody knows

what a good Tvife she is, though nobody can suppose
that she married the Squire for love.'

So long as she is happy, that is enough,' said
George Leland.

She had told him she was happy, and he had not
believed her. He had regarded that assertion as
an heroic falsehood.

Mrs. Thomas expatiated upon the family at Place :
she spoke of Mr. Mark, who was not thought highly
of, though he was liked for his easy good-nature and
absence of pride, and who was supposed to have
entangled himself in an uncomfortable manner with
a handsome barmaid at Camelot. And then Mrs.
Thomas told her lodger all she could tell about the
cottage on the St. Columb road, and how that abode
was now shut up; whereby it was supposed that
the Squire's brother and the barmaid had parted ;
perhaps because of the Squire having got wind of
the disreputable alliance.

He's just the sort of man to be very strict in
such matters,' said Mrs. Thomas. ' The Penruths
always were a proud family, all except Mark.'

She told her lodger how changed the Squire had

VOL. ]II.

been by his late illness ; how he had been gradually
giving up all his old ways ever since last summer ;
and how it was supposed in the neighbourhood that
he was breaking up, and would never be again the
man he had been.

They're not a long-lived family,' she remarked
conclusively. * The father was under fifty when he
was taken off sudden by heart-disease. I never saw
such a change in any one as in Mr. Penrith, when
I saw him at church four Sundays ago. There was
a strange preacher come from Plymouth to preach
for the schools, and the Squire and his ladies drove
over to hear him. He looked a good ten years
older than he did last Christmas. He used to bethe
hardest rider in these parts. He'd come tearing
over the moor on a big brown horse, or driving
a high dog-cart, and going faster than the mail.
He used to be out and about all day long. And
now they d' say he sits staring at the fire or reading
his newspaper for hours at a stretch. It's not his
young wife's fault if he's dull and melancholy : for
everybody says how good and dutiful she has been
to him, though it can hardly be expected that a

handsome young woman can care much for a grumpy-old
man like Yyvyan Penrith.*

'Handsome is as handsome does,' said Major
Leland. ' She may have learnt to love him for the
sake of his goodness to her. She seems happy, does
she not ?'

She behaves herself as a lady should,' replied
Mrs. Thomas, with a sententious air ; ' everybody
says that of her ; and that's as much as anybody
has a right to know. "We can't go prying into the
insides of people's hearts and minds, you see, sir.
We must form our judgment from the outside, and
be content. We've no more to do with what lies
behind than we have to grumble because there's a
dark side to the moon while her bright side is lighting
us over the moor.'

Was she happy ? That was the question which
George Leland perpetually asked of himself? She
had assured him that all was well with her, that
she was happy in her married life. But this
assurance he took to be a noble falsehood, a woman's
sacrifice to her own self-respect. The thought that
she could be happy while he was so miserable for

the loss of her maddened him. He knew that this
impotent jealousy, this rage against the fate that
had parted them, was a base and a hateful feeling,
yet he could not conquer it. He who had fought so
stoutly against his country's foes was in this no
hero. He could not subjugate self.

He was lying one day on a grassy headland,
listless, low-spirited, having read all the news that
interested him in yesterday's Times, and having
nothing to do for the live-long day but watch the
sea and the gulls, with faint hopes of an occasional
cormorant to diversify the scene. The morning
was mild and sunny, though November had begun ;
summery-looking clouds were floating in a blue sky,
and lending their varied colour to a summery sea.
The soft air seemed laden with a ghostly perfume,
the odour of the dead year's flowers ; or perhaps it
was only the sweet scent of an upland turnip-field,
or that untraceable mysterious perfume which exhales
from the very earth on such a morning, the
spirit of fallow field and fading woodland, faint
breathing from hidden violets under ragged hedges
where the sturdy redbreast swings a-top of a

thorn, and carols his welcome to the comines
winter.

Startled from a gloomy reverie, George Leland
looked up at the sound of horse's hoofs bounding
over the short turf, and beheld a young lady in a
blue habit, fair-haired, rosy-cheeked, blue-eyed, a
bright familiar face, which he had known in the
happiest period of his life.

Flossie !' he cried, starting to his feet.
*How do you do, Captain  I beg your pardon,
Major  Leland?' said Flossie, just as coolly as if
they had parted yesterday.

There she sat, looking down upon him from the
altitude of a big gray horse  a horse of undecided
temperament, who had hardly made up his mind
whether he would be gray or roan, and had subsided
into a speckled mixture of both, which justified his
name. Pepper and Salt. She sat her big awkward
horse as easily as if she had been born in the saddle,
and she was as pretty and almost as pert as she
had been five years ago in the garden at Camberwell,
when they two had waltzed together on the
soft springy turf, amidst night dews and roses,

under a summer moon. Yet at sight of his gaunt
wasted figure and faded face, lit by large haggard
eyes, even Flossie's impertinence was put to the
blush.

She looked at him earnestly, her eyes filling with
tears.

You are sadly altered,' she said, * since  since  '

Since the happy time when we were all young ;
since the summer day when Barbara and I lost ourselves
under the Greenwich elms. Yes, I daresay I
am changed since then. Such a campaign as I have
gone through is not calculated to improve a man's
personal appearance.'

He spoke lightly, but his hand trembled a little
as he held Flossie's bridle, while the fidgety Pepper
dug holes in the turf with his forefeet.

I wish I could hook this horse on to something,
and dismount,' said Flossie. 'He is a wretched
beast that will never consent to stand still ; and I
should like to have a long talk with you.'

I'll take care of the horse,' said Major Leland ;
whereupon Flossie dropped lightly from her saddle,
and gave the Major the bridle.

There was a nondescript little building surrounded
with rusty iron railings on the highest
pinnacle of the cliff. Only a native of the soil could
have told if there was any use or any intention in it.
It might have been intended as a rude temple dedicated
to the winds, and it might have been that
Boreas and his brotherhood did not deem the fane
worthy of their acceptance ; for they rushed in at its
grated windows, and tore round it and howled over
it with exceeding savagery in tempestuous weather,
as if they had marked it for destruction. Xo visitor
to Stockport had the faintest idea of its meaning ;
but it was a mark in the landscape for those aspiring
climbers who are always shouting ' Excelsior !' and
the railings were handy to lean against when one
had struggled to the summit of the grassy hill, and,
if the winds were battering against three sides of
the building, there was a chance of shelter on the
fourth.

Here, the day being quiet and fair, [Major Leland
led the submissive Pepper, who seemed to think he
was going to get a bait, and anon fastened his bridle
securely to the railings on the landward side, and

left the patient beast to crop the short salt turf,
while [he went back to Flossie, who was walking
slowly up and down a narrow path upon the steep
grassy slope fronting the sea. He held out both his
hands and grasped hers warmly.

I am very glad to see you, Flossie,' he said.
There is only one other person in the world whom
I would rather see.'

You would not say that if you knew everything,'
she protested, shaking her head with a contrite air ;
you would hate me.'

I should hate you if I knew  what ?'

You are very sorry to have lost Barbara, I am
afraid ?' she said, looking at him deprecatingly.

Sorry ? Yes, I am sorry. It is a sorrow that
will last me for my lifetime, and go down with me to
my grave.'

Don't,' cried Flossie ; ' you make me feel like a
murderer. Is it that sorrow which has altered you
so?'

No, my dear. Grief and regret have gnawed
my heart ; but I went on living all the same  ate,
drank, slept, thrived as a brute thrives in his pasture.

Hardship and privation, forced marches,
deadly heat and dreary rain,  these are the things
that have sapped my strength, and perhaps shortened
my life. But, for God's sake, tell me what you
mean, Flossie ! Why should I hate you ? what had
you to do with my sorrow ?'

Ever so much. Barbara wrote you a letter.'

Yes.'

One very enormously particular letter.'

'Yes, I know, and it never reached me. She
told me of it.'

*I lost it,' said Flossie, blurting out her confession,
and looking him full in the face, with an air
half deprecating, half defiant, almost as if she expected
him to knock her down. 'I lost it. I had
ever so many things to get for ma, and there were
all kinds of new things in the shop-windows in the
Walworth-road  gloves at a shilling and ,
with the elevenpence-halfpenny
written in pencil, you know  so deceiving; and
there were bonnets and all sorts of fancy articles,
which you wouldn't understand if I were to tell you
about them ; and altogether I never saw the Road

more attractive; and so  I suppose I must have
dropped the letter,' said Flossie very slowly, after
rattling on at the rate of an express train; 'for when
I got to the post-office  the watchmaker's, you know,
where the man was always civil  it was gone. I
don't suppose my pocket had been picked; for,
you see, a thief would hardly care about a flimsy
Indian letter without a stamp on it, and I had
the shilling ready to pay for the stamp. That reminds
me, by the bye, I owe Barbara that shilling.'


'But there was no crime in losing the letter;
Barbara could have written another. Why, in
Heaven's name, could you not act frankly and tell
her ? I thought you were all truthfulness.'

So I am,' protested Flossie. ' My every-day
character is frank to a fault. But this was one of
those extraordinary events in life where one is
tempted to go a little off the straight track. Don't
you remember telling us about Clive  how he took
in that poor old Indian with a sham treaty ? and I
have no doubt that, in a common way, Clive was a
very frank man  '

Never mind Clive, Flossie. Tell me why you
acted so falsely.'

Well, you see, mamma and I talked it over, and
it did seem such a pity that Barbara should be engaged
to you, who were thousands of miles away,
and had got yourself into difficulties, when here was
Mr. Penrith on the spot, and one of the richest menin
Cornwall, and desperately in love with her  in
love to such a degree that hothouse grapes at half a
guinea a pound were as nothing to him. And
mamma thought it was Providence that had interfered
to make me lose that letter; and it really
looked like it, for I never did such a thing before ;
and it would have seemed like flying in the face of
Providence to go and tell Barbara, and let her write
again. It would have been, as it were, frustrating
the good intentions of higher powers ; so we decided
to say nothing to Barbara  and  that's all.'

That's all !' echoed Major Leland.  You only
broke two hearts, or one at least. I will answer
nothing for the other.'

*Come now, you said just now that it was the
climate and hardships and forced marches  '

Yes, those brought me to the brink of the
grave. But it was not climate or hardship that broke
my heart, Flossie. Well, I have no right to complain
 I will not complain, if she is content; but to
have been so near happiness and to have missed
it  that is hard. At that time, when my honour
and honesty had been doubted, it seemed tome
my duty to release my dearest girl from her
promise. To do less would have been to prove
myself unworthy of her love. Was she, in her
trusting faith, loving me fondly and blindly, to
link her young life to a man of blighted character
? The idea of such a sacrifice was intolerable
to me, and I did not hesitate in writing the
letter which renounced all hope of happiness. But
when that letter had gone, when the long slow
months wore on, I doing journeyman's work at an
up-country station, how I hungered and thirsted fora
letter from my love  one little letter, telling me
that she was sorry for me, that she did not let me go
without regret !'

'And all that time some nasty selfish creature
was treasuring up Bab's letter as a curiosity, I daresay,'

said Flossie, glad to transfer some part of the
burden of wrong to an unknown individual.

I will try to be content, and think that all
things have happened for the best,' said George Leland,
with a smile that moved Flossie more than
even tears could have done.

We were very, very poor when Bab consented
to marry Mr. Penrith,' pursued Flossie apologetically.
' Our dear mother was ill ; her health seemed
to be breaking up altogether. We had no one to
help us. It was like the old song Barbara used to
sing in those happy summer evenings. Yes, indeed,
it was just the story of Auld Robin Gray over again.
And now Barbara has a grand old house and a carriage
and a pony-phaeton, and might wallow in gold
if she liked ; and poor ma and I are provided for.
You would hardly know us at Camberwell. The
drawing-room is lovely  new carpet, new curtains,
old china  you know how clever mamma is in picking
up cups and saucers and things in odd out-of-the-way
brokers' shops. It is the dearest little room.
We are even thinking of a new piano.'

Can I grudge you your happiness, Flossie, even

if it has cost me my own ? No, clear, I am resigned,
if Barbara is happy.'

If she is not she ought to he,' answered Flossie
confidently. ' She has an excellent and most indulgent
husband in his own grumpy way. She is
allowed to have us for a long visit every year, and
you must admit that is a privilege.'

She has her mother with her sometimes ; I am
glad of that.'

'And ME,' said Flossie.

Well, I will believe that she is happy, and be
content. The greatest happiness for the greatest
number, that is the supreme good. Somebody must
be left out in the cold.'

I am sure we have all reason to be thankful,'
said Flossie. * If you had come home before the
Mutiny, and had married Barbara, and taken her 
back to India with you, think how dreadful that
might have been !'

Might have been !' echoed George Leland shudderingly.
' Yes, that would have been too horrible.
My darling, my innocent dove, at the mercy of those
savages ! No, I thank God for the fate that parted

us, if by that alone she could be saved from being
even a witness of the things that were done by those
hell-hounds ! Can the few who were saved ever forget
those days ? Those days of anguish and suspense,
when the men who were fighting for their
country trembled at the thought of their dear ones
far away in the hills ; when every day brought its
tale of another revolted regiment, another cruel
slaughter, helpless women starving in the jungle, or
hiding in cellars, danger and death in every hideous
shape. Can the mothers whose babies were slain
upon their breasts ever be happy again ? Yes, there
is something to be thankful for in that. She might
have been amongst those forlorn ones.'

They paced slowly along the narrow track in
silence for a few minutes, George Leland's thoughts
travelling back to the year that was gone and the
things that he had seen. How deeply he had pitied
the men who had wives and children in those days !

'You see,' said Flossie cheerfully, after this
pause, * Providence is always good. Providence
brought Mr. Penrith just when our poor mother
could not have struggled on any longer without

substantial help. Providence made me lose that
letter.'

And Providence brought you here this morning,
I suppose, to tell me how you contrived to do it ?'
said the Major, with his half-sad, half-bitter smile.

Well, I hardly know,' replied Flossie musingly.
I had a sort of idea that I should see you if I rode
this way; and as I do just as I like and go just
where I like in this wild out-of-the-way hole, and
have the run of that horse Pepper, which belongs to
my sister's brother-in-law, Mark Penrith, a very
obliging person, I thought I might just as well come
and look you up.'

You knew I was staying here ?'

Of course. Do you for a moment suppose that
anybody can go anywhere or do anything in this
desolate place without everybody else knowing all
about it ?'

Did Barbara know you were coming ?'

dear, no ! I didn't so much as hint at my
intention. She might have asked me not to come.'

And will you tell her that you have seen me ?'

I think not. It couldn't do any good, you

know, and it might unsettle her mind. The very
best thing she can do is to forget your existence,
which, by the way, she can hardly be expected to do
while you are living within half a dozen miles of her
house. Don't you think you could contrive to go
and get well somewhere else ?'

I shall not stay here much longer. But I like
the quiet of the place, and the air has done wonders
for me.'

Poor fellow ! How bad you must have been
before you began to get better !' exclaimed Flossie,
with a compassionate look at his hollow cheeks.

Yes, I shall soon move on upon my journey,
Flossie. It matters very little where I go for the
rest  '

For the rest of your furlough, or whatever you
call it,' interrupted Flossie. ' If you are indifferent
where you go, why shouldn't you come and stay with
us at Camberwell, when we go back, which is to be
in a week or two ? Mamma would be delighted to
have you  as a visitor, you know ; and she and I
would take such care of you, and feed you up till
you were as strong as a lion. Ma makes delicious

VOL. III. D

beef-tea and jelly and all the things an invalid ought
to have. Do come.'

You are very good, Flossie. Yes, I should like
to be under your roof; there would be sadness in it,
but pleasure too  to walk up and down the old
garden-path where she and I dawdled away so many
an hour. But I should hardly recognise your house
and garden in winter. When I call up the picture
of that garden it is always summer, summer evening,
and Venus is shining placidly in the pale-gray sky
above the hazels at the end of the walk, and the soft
air is scented with roses and jasmines. Yes, I should
dearly like to be in your quiet little home, Flossie.
It is a happy thought of yours. There is no place
that would do me so much good.'

I am so glad,' faltered Flossie. ' I will do all
I can to please you and to make up for my carelessness,
for my wickedness, about that letter. And
now I must go back as fast as I can. Poor Pepper
must be tired of those railings, and I'm afraid he
will have eaten enough grass to make himself ill.'

Hardly, I think, with the bit in his mouth.
And now, Flossie, one word before we part. If it

should ever come to your knowledge that your sister
were in any trouble of mind, any difficulty, in which
a man's honest will could aid her, remember that I
would give my life to save her an hour's pain.
Remember, dear, though I shall love her fondly to
the end of all things, I am a soldier and a gentleman,
and I am to be trusted. It is not likely that
she will ever need my help, but God knows it would
be given faithfully.'

I am sure of that,' said Flossie, as they walked
up the slope to the railed enclosure. * And it is a
promise that you are to come to us, is it not *?'

Yes, it is a promise.'

I shall write to you here when I know the date
of our return.'

Could you not ride over and see me again ?'
Do you really like to see me ?'

Very much.'

Then I'll come.'

And presently she was mounted on Pepper, and
rode slowly off, smiling back at the Major, as she
walked her horse zigzag fashion down the breast of
the hill.

A FRIENDLY WARNING.

Some days passed before Mark could find any opportunity
for private conversation with the inestimable
Mrs. Morris. That lady's caution was so great that
she avoided all encounters with the Squire's brother
which might possibly come within the ken of any
member of the household. But after that interview
with his brother, in. which Vyvyan had revealed the
contents of his will, Mark had a natural desire to
impart his knowledge to the woman whom it concerned
so nearly. He watched his opportunity therefore,
and came home earlier than usual from the
quarries one afternoon at the beginning of November,
in order to lie in wait for Mrs. Morris in the dusky
corridor, before the lighting of lamps and candles.

He had not been long in the corridor, lounging
on a window-seat, looking absently out at the shadowy
hills, when Mrs. Morris appeared, carrying the
afternoon letters and papers on a salver. Miss Pen-ruth

excelled as a letter-writer, and kept up a wide
correspondence with absent friends. What they
could all find to write about must ever remain a
mystery to the outside world.

At sight of Mark's figure, half hidden by the
embrasure of the window, Molly started and paled.
She had seemed curiously nervous of late  the effect,
perhaps, of her false position, which must trouble
even so skilled a dissimulator.

Take the letters,' said Mark, ' and then come
back to me as quick as you can. I want a talk with
you.'

She nodded yes, and tripped lightly away with
her salver ; and in three minutes came back to him,
and seated herself quietly by his side in the dusk.

It was the servants' tea-time, the hour for buttered
toast and unlimited gossip, and there was little
chance of any one coming to light the lamps yet
awhile.

What is it all about, Mark '?' she asked.

My brother has acted nobly,' he began  ' so
generously that I can hardly speak of his conduct
without making a fool of myself. He has made his

will, Molly, and he has made me his heir. I am a
hard-hearted beast for feeling glad and proud at the
idea of succeeding him. He knows, poor dear fellow,
that he has not long to live ; and he has reconciled
himself to the notion of my stepping into his shoes;
and we have been over the map of the estate together,
and he has talked to me a great deal of late about
the property.'

*He has made his will,' said Molly;  you are
sure ?'

I have his word for it, and he never told me a
lie.'

Well, you are a lucky man, Mark ; ever so much
luckier than you deserve to be.'

I know that,' assented Mark meekly.

Because a poor-spirited fellow like you would
never do anything of his own account. You would
never be rich if somebody else's fortune did not drop
into your lap.'

Perhaps not, Molly ; but you needn't taunt me
with that. I've run the risk of losing everything for
your sake, and if it isn't in your nature to be grateful,
you might at least strain a point and be civil.'

Don't be cross, Mark,' lie said, laying lier liaucl
upon his shoulder. ' Everything will be made up tous
Vv'hen we have got the estate. Won't the Camelot
folks stare when I ride through the town in my carriage
and pair ! I would have six horses, just as old
Sir Massey Lopes used to have, only it would be too
much like a circus.'

'Six fiddlestick!' muttered Mark. 'When I
have a pack of hounds I'll drive you to the meet in
my drag, if you like  for I mean to keep a drag and
a good team ; but, in an ordinary way, I should think
a pony-chaise ought to satisfy you. But now, Molly,
I am going to talk seriously. In the face of what I
have just told you, with the certainty that you and I
will be master and mistress here before we are many
years older, I can't, and I won't, stand this masquerading
of yours any longer. You and your widow's
weeds must clear out of this immediately.'

I understand,' said Molly, with a vixenish
tightening of her lips. * Now Miss Flossie is here I
am in the way. I must make myself scarce immediately,
in order to leave the coast clear for your
flirtations.'

Miss Flossie has nothing to do with it ; and
I've had too great a sickener of your sex to care
about flirtations with a female angel,' retorted Mark,
waxing savage.  You must get out of this house at
once, simply because it isn't decent that my wife
should be here in such a position.'

Well, Mark, only be reasonable,' pleaded Molly,
with a sudden change from the virago to the turtledove.
' I came here to watch your interests, and I
am quite willing to go now that your interests are
secured ; but I can't go at an hour's notice. I must
hatch some story to tell your sister. I must leave
as respectably as I came. I'll say that I've received
a letter from my aged mother in Lincolnshire, who
is very ill, and wants me at home to nurse her.
And I'll give your sister a month's notice.'

A month !' ejaculated Mark. ' Why a month ?
Your aged mother would be dead and buried in
that time !'

Not if it was a chronic disorder  some lingering
wasting complaint. A month is not long
notice to give your sister, Mark, after she has
made me a confidential servant. She would get

suspicious and begin to make inquiries, perhaps,
if I wanted to go away suddenly.'

Well, I never could understand your motive
for coming here, and I can no more fathom your
motive for staying here. But all I have to say is,
get out of the place as soon as you can.' .

Yes,' answered Molly, deep in thought, ' as soon
as I can.'

She started at the ringing of a bell, and left
him alone in the thickening darkness.

I can't understand her,' he said to himself.
I wish she was fair and above-board  like Flossie.'

And then he sighed, as he had sighed once
before, at the mention of Flossie's name. It was
not that he had any evil thought about her  any
unholy dream or hope. It was only because she
was so different from the woman to whom he had
bound himself.

From that time forward Mark's mind v,'as

 curiously divided between an honest affection for

his brother and a natural pride in the things which

were soon to be his own. He tried very hard to

shut out of his mind that haunting idea of future

possession ; but the stoicism required for such
self-abnegation was beyond the reach of Mark's
weak nature. In the stables, in the house, in the
grounds, he thought of the day when his own reign
should begin, and the level monotony which had
prevailed fqr the last half century should give
place to the animated life of a sporting squire's
household. He could not even keep silent as to
those schemes of alteration and improvement which
were for ever developing themselves in his brain.
He talked to the old head-groom of what he would
do in the stables if he were master : how he would
knock down this and clear away that, build loose
boxes instead of the old stalls, lift off dilapidated
roofs, give light and air to stables which, though
spacious enough to accommodate a stud of thirty
hunters, were little better than cattle-sheds for
arrangement and comfort ; build kennels and 
in the paddock at the back of the stable-yard,
and make Place altogether worthy to be called
a gentleman's abode.

The old servants liked well enough to hear
him talk, and encouraged him to expatiate upon

his day-dream. There was no treason against
Yyvyan in such discourse. Every man must die
when his time comes ; and, as there seemed no
likelihood of the elder brother becoming the father
of a family, Mark was accepted generally as the
future master of all things. He would be a pleasant
easy-going ruler, people thought, and would
spend his money in a large open-handed manner,
which would allow of a good deal of its dropping
through his fingers into the pockets of other people.

While lie is still flushed with the novelty of
his position as Yyvyan's declared heir, while his
spirits, despite his efforts to feel sorry for his
brother's shortened life, were at their highest, the
cup of hope was suddenly dashed from his hand,
and he felt that on him too fell the chill shade
of the common doom  that he too was but a passing
shadow upon life's changeful scene.

He went into Yyvyan's den one morning, to
wait for his brother,, who had something to say
to him about one of the farms, and, being tired
and flushed with an early gallop upon the brown
cob, flung himself into Yyvyan's armchair, and took

ii long pull of the honest brown October out of
Yyvyan's stout old George II. tankard. Refreshed
by the draught, he lay back in his chair indulging
in that day-dream which had beguiled him so often
of late  the thought of what he should do when
he was master. Thus, with his eyes half closed,
he rested his tired limbs, and dreamed his dream
of horse and hound, spaniel and gun, otter-hunt
and steeplechase, without count of time, knowing
that Yyvyan would come to him as soon as he
had finished his interview with an offending tenant
who had been caught in the act of bartering the
straw which, in the form of manure, should have
enriched the land he rented. Yyvyan would come
in due time ; and in the mean while the day-dream
went on, and Mark saw himself flying over a big
water-jump at Lancet steeplechase, to the admiration
of the assembled multitude.

But, lo, what is this dull lethargy, never felt in
his life before, which steals over him in the midst of
his fancied triumph, and blots the visionary racecourse
and the visionary crowd from the scene, and clouds
the real parlour and the low red fire, till the smouldering

logs look like patches of dull light seen afar off
athwart a land of shadows ? What is the meaning
of this deathlike nausea, these cold drops of sweat that
break out suddenly upon his brow, this dreadful
sensation of sinking through the ground, there where
he sits in his brother's armchair ? Yes, as if the
floor were empty space, and he was sinking slowly
through into a pit beneath. What does it mean ?
Alas for those new-fledged hopes of his, he knows
too well. That slowly-throbbing heart, with dull
laborious beat, not twenty-five to the minute, gives
him the answer to his question. The doom is on
him too  not on his brother alone, but on him, the
younger, as well as the elder. Hereditary heart-disease
! As his father died in the prime and
vigour of manhood, as he has been told his brother
must die, so too must he die. This is his first
warning. Fool, to have known of the doom of father
and brother, and not to have expected the same fate
for himself !

He sank into a sleep that was more like lethargy
than slumber; and so Yyvyan found him half an
hour afterwards.

Why, Mark, old fellow, asleep at midday !' cried
the Squire. ' This is taking life easily with a vengeance.'


And then, seeing the livid hue of the sleeper's
face, Yyvyan took alarm. He bent over his brother,
felt the cold forehead and hands, and shook him
gently to rouse him.

Wake up,' he said, taking a bottle from a cupboard
by the fireplace, and pouring out half a tumbler
of brandy. 'You must have a dose of my
medicine.'

He had some difficulty in making his brother
drink the brandy. His sleep was almost stupor.
When he opened his eyes at last he looked at Vyvyan
wonderingly, as at a stranger.

Forty feet,' he said ; ' not many horses would
have cleared it as clean as that, would they, old
flick?'

Finish that brandy, Mark ; you've been dreaming,'
said Yyvyan.

Yes ; I dreamt I was going down to the bottomless
pit.'

What do you mean ?'

I was sinking through the floor, collapsing into
my boots, melting into nothing. It was a disgusting
sensation.'

Great God !' cried Vyvjau. ' That is what I
feel when I have my heart-attacks.'

And this was heart, "ye're both in the same
boat, Yyyyan,' said Mark gloomily.  You needn't
have troubled to make a will in my favour. We're
both entered for the same race, old fellow ; and who
can tell which horse will be first to pass the judge's
chair ?'

 This is horrible,' sighed Yyvyan, throwing himself
upon the sofa. ' I never contemplated the possibility
of such a thing. The thought of my poor
father's untimely death never suggested a fear for
my own life, or for yours. I know that consumption
is hereditary. Wherever there is that taint in the
blood, there is cause for fear. But heart-disease 
can that too be a heritage from father to son ? And
in my father's case there was no warning. I never
heard him complain. Have 3'ou never felt this before,
Mark ?'

Never, so help me, Heaven !'

What had you been doing this morning ? Over-exerting
yourself, I daresay. It was a long day on
that black horse you bought me that brought on my
first attack.'

Yes, I suppose that was what did it for me. I
had a tremendous gallop over the moor this morning.
I wanted to take it out of Fiddlehead before I rode
him with Flossie. He's one of the best horses I
ever rode, but a confounded puller. I felt dead-beat
when I came in here, and as dry as a limekiln. I
nearly emptied your tankard.'

Well, you see, Mark,' said the Squire thoughtfully,
' we are both mortal. While we are building
our barns and adding to our lands, the fiat goes
forth, " Thou fool"  you know the rest. We must
look the future in the face, Mark. If I had a son 
or you had a son  I would bow to Fate, and make
no moan. But to think that the estate should go to
a beggarly heir-at-law  Jack Philip, of Liskeard 
who will take out a patent, and call himself Philip
Penrith, perhaps, and think himself as big as the
biggest of us ! The thought of that fellow is enough
to make me alter my will, and leave the land to my

wife, even though I know she would hand over everything
to her Indian free-hmce, after wearing widow's
weeds for a year or so.'

Don't do that,' gasped Mark, still faint from
the prostration of his attack. ' Who knows how
long you and I may live ? You may have a son 
or I. Don't alter your will ; let that stand. Anything
 even a scurvy fellow like Jack Philip  would
he letter than that your widow's second husband
should be master here. He would be the worst of
aliens.'

Not worse than a beggarly attorney in a beggarly
country town,' answered Yyvyan testily. *I
would rather the Crown had my estate than Jack
Philip. Well, I can leave it all to a charity, that's
one comfort.'

Let your will stand, Yyvyan. Be reasonable. I
may have a secret to tell you before long  a secret
that may alter the state of affairs.'

I understand,' said Yyvyan ; ' you are thinking
of getting married. Yell, go on and prosper. You
are eleven years my junior. Take this business of
to-day as a warning to live quietly, and perhaps you

VOL. III. E

may spin out the thread of life to a decent length.
We mustn't let fears or fancies kill us.'

'Mine was no fancy,' said Mark despondently;
it was the most horrible sensation I ever had in my
life.'

Didcott has advised me to leave off beer, and
drink nothing but weak brand-ands water,' said
Yyvyan, ringing the bell for a fresh supply of home-brewed
; ' but I am a creature of habit, and must
live my life my own way, even at the risk of shortening
it. I couldn't get on without my morning
tankard.'

Vyvyan thought much of his brother's illness.
The idea that his race was destined to perish out of
the land haunted him like a nightmare. It had
been hard for him to reconcile himself to the thought
that he himself must go, that another must be
master of the things he loved, though that other one
were his own brother; but that they should go to an
alien was a far bitterer thought.

If Mark would but marry !'

What, to rear a sickly race  children tainted with
hereditary disease ? How could he tell upon what

future generations this doom might descend ? If
upon him and upon his brother, why not upon his
brother's children ?

'We are an expiring race,' he said to himself ;
the canker is at the root, and the tree must
fill'

His conduct to his brother after this time showed
more affection, in his own rough and rugged way,
than it had ever done before. As he had pitied himself,
when the knowledge of his doom was first revealed
to him, so now he pitied his brother.

Still in the prime of life, and taking life so
lightly,' he thought. ' It must be harder for him
than for me to know that his days are to be short in
the land.'

A change came over Mark after that sudden
shock, which reminded him of life's uncertainty. He
said nothing to the woman who had hitherto shared
most of his secrets. He shrank, just as Vyvyan had
done, from talking of this thing ; but he thought of
it day and night.

The images of those three little lads at St. Columb
haunted him at this time, and were his chief

LIBRARY

MNWERSITY OF \\X\mS

scarce of trouble. Something must be done for
them. If he were to die before his elder brother,
and Vyvyan were to do what he had threatened 
leave his estate to a charity? Where then would
be home and shelter and means for those three curly
pates, who had composed themselves into such pretty
pictures, climbing about their father's knees in the
winter fireglow ? Those chubby cheeks and innocent
laughing eyes were always before Mark's mental
vision in these days. Something must be done 
nay, one thing alone could be done. His brother
must be told of the existence of the boys, and of their
claim upon his bounty, their right to call themselves
by his name.

she will be furiously angry  he will turn me out
of his house, perhaps,' thought Mark; 'but I shan't
mind that, if he will only be good to them. I am
the sinner.'

And then Mark remembered with a heavy heart
how one awful passage in Holy Writ declared that
the sins of the fathers should be visited upon the
children. And he had of his own experience seen
how the thing does happen in life, and how the innocent

offspring have to pay the penalty' of the parents'
crime.

But mine is not a crime,' argued Mark. ' At
the worst it is but an error. Why should I be afraid
to tell him ?'

Ashy, indeed, save for the reason that some natures
are fashioned so limply that they recoil from
every act which requires a bracing up of nerves and
will, and a bold face-to-face encounter with stern necessity.
Mark knew that if he confessed his fault
to his brother there would be a storm of anger to be
lived through, and Mark loved fair weather. Yet he
had now come to a crisis in which he told himself
that Yyvyan must learn the truth. The only question
was as to when and how the revelation vas to
be made.

If I were to tell Molly that I'm likely to die
suddenly, as my father did, she wouldn't let me have
an hour's peace,' he thought. ' She would worry
me into my grave.'

For this reason, therefore, if for this only, he
told Molly nothing of his illness that morning in
Vyvyan's den.

Time was hurrying on, the leaves were falling,
the days shortening, the mists of November creeping
over the hill, and the date of Mrs. Morris's departure
was fast approaching ; much to the annoyance of
Miss Penrith, who declared that she should never
again get a maid to suit her so well.

She is a most admirable person,' she said, in
the family circle. 'I only wish that people of
superior station were her intellectual equals or
had her sound ideas of right and wrong. All I
wonder is how such a person as Mrs. Nichols could
have become acquainted with a woman of such a
type.'

Mark heard, and shivered with apprehension. If
ever the truth about Mrs. Morris should come to be
known, how would Miss Penrith be induced to pardon
an imposture which must needs make her appear
ridiculous !

Meanwhile life went on smoothly enough in the
dull old house. Mrs. Trevornock Alas happy with
her elder daughter; she sat by the drawing-room fire
working, or went for a drive in the landau, or wrote
an occasional letter to aunt Sophia, expatiating Upon

the splendour of ber daughter's surroundings and
the sterling goodness of her son-in-law. Yyan
spent a good deal of his time alone in his study
business a pretext for seclusion. Flossie
contrived to be out as much as possible, and indoors
amused herself tolerably with reading novels, petting
Mark's dogs, and teasing Mark, whom she appeared
to consider sent into this world for her to worry.
Yet if to be so worried had been the darkest feature
in Mark's life, he would hardly have deemed existence
a burden.

It was within three days of Mrs. Morris's departure,
and the rest of the household, with a natural
detestation of new favourites, were all rejoicing in
their impending loss. People who keep themselves
apart from the common herd may be respected, but
they are rarely liked ; and Mrs. Morris had lived ina
retirement which was taken as a tacit assertion of
her superiority to her fellow-workers.

She must take her meals in her own room, forsooth,'
said Gilmore the housekeeper, mother to
Mrs. Penrith's own maid ; 'as if ire weren't good
enough for her company ; and she looks down upon

chapel-people, if you please. Well, she he going,
and joy go with her ! I'd rather have Thomasine
Tudway's faults than her virtues, though Miss Pen-ruth
do set such store hy her.'

Vyvyan sat alone hy his study fire after breakfast
upon this November morning. It was some time
since he had had any return of the old attack, yet
he was far from well. He had never recovered the
strength he lost while he lay prostrate with rheumatic
pain and low fever. The change from a life
spent for the most part in open-air exercise, with
ample occupation for mind and body, to dull brooding
days by a fireside, overshadowed and possessed by one
fixed idea, is a change that no man can undergo
without mental and physical deterioration. Vyvyan
Penrith was no more like the man he had been four
months ago than he was like Hercules ; and it was
when nerves and body were in this degenerate state
that the heaviest blow which was ever aimed at
him fell with crushing weight upon his dejected
soul.

The morning mail brought him only one letter 
a letter addressed in an unknown hand, the characterless

copper-plate style of a tradesman's circular,
the post-mark, Camelot.

An account of some kind,' he thought, and listlessly
tore open the envelope.

This was the letter :

Take a plain warning from one who is a friend
to you and your family. Your wife's lover is at Stockport,
and it may not be very long before he and she
are over the border. They have been seen together.
Ask your father-in-law's late clerk, Lewis Maul-ford,
how these two young people were together at
Southampton before the Captain sailed for India 
how they were seen in the town  and how the lady
went back to London in a third-class carriage, veiled
and muffled, to escape notice. Curious, to say the
least of it ; but Mrs. T. brought up her girls curiously.
This is meant in all friendliness. It may
not be too late to save the lady's reputation and your
honour. Forewarned is forearmed.'

An anonymous letter ! a tissue of lies, most
likely,' Yyvyan told himself; 'or of truths so distorted
as to be more false than unalloyed falsehood.'


Yet Yllile lie argued with himself he believed,
and his heart hardened itself against the wife who
had given him duty and obedience, but not love.

That Major Leland was at Stockport, he knew.
Priscilla had taken care to keep him informed on
that point. But that Barbara and he had met ?
No, he could hardly believe that. She had never
been out alone within his knowledge ; but she and
Flossie had gone for long drives across the moor,
in the pony-carriage, unattended. A girl of Flossie's
stamp would connive at any wrongdoing, out of mere
frivolity. Yes, they had met, no doubt, those
three, and Flossie's presence was but a poor safeguard.


And the story of a meeting at Southampton years
ago. That was a darker history, perhaps. That involved
character  was in itself enough to blight a
woman's reputation.

If there is any truth in that charge, what can I
think of her, how can I believe in her henceforward ?'
he asked himself.

And then, pale with suppressed passion, with
dry throat and parched lips, he stretched out his

hand mechanically to the old silver tankard that
held his morning draught  always put ready for him
on his table at eleven o'clock  and drank with feverish
avidity nearly to the bottom of the cup.

UNFRIENDED, New-adopted TO OUR HATE.'

Vyvyan Penrith paced up and down his room with
the anonymous letter crushed in his bony hand.

How much did it mean, or how little ? Unversed
though he was in the ways of the world outside his
own small kingdom, he was not so weak as to surrender
his opinions  his own honest faith in his
wife's goodness and truth  at the first attack of a
nameless assailant. Yet, granted that this anonymous
slanderer was a scoundrel, here was a plain
fact stated, open to proof, which if true would stamp
his wife as unworthy of the confidence he had given
her.

Alone at Southampton with her lover ; for how
long or how short a time ? She had been seen with
him at Southampton before he sailed. That was all
the letter stated. But the secret return  muffled
and veiled  implied that their meeting had been
stealthy, in some wise shameful.

His wife  the woman whose girlish innocence,
whose childlike simplicity of mind, he had reverenced,
in his own rough wa'  his wife alone with
her lover in a strange town, the observed of unfriendly
eyes, stealing back to London like a guilty
creature.

*I cannot believe it,' he said to himself; 'I will
show her the letter. I will hear what she has to say
to the charge. Her own lips shall justify or condemn
her.'

And then he remembered Barbara's curious
antipathy to Maulford  a dislike which seemed so
irrational, so unmerited by its object.

Ask Maulford how they were together at Southampton,'
said the letter. Maulford was indicated as
the possessor of facts that condemned her.

"Was it for this she disliked him ?

I will ask her what it all means,' Vyvyan said
to himself again, staggered somewhat by this idea
about Maulford. ' I will wring the truth from her
somehow.'

Suddenly the letter dropped from his relaxing
fingers, and he flung himself heavily on the sofa.

It was the old feeling  the death-like torpor, the icy-sweat,
the dimness of vision, the hideous sensation
of sinking through the couch on which he lay ; and
this time the symptoms had a triple power, and he
felt this must be death.

What did it mean ? In this room  always in
this room  at the same hour  at the same, or
nearly the same, interval after his morning drink of
beer.

Could disease be so mathematically periodic in
its recurrence ? observe the same hour ? seize him
always in the same spot ?

What if it were not disease, but poison ?' he
thought, with a dull horror creeping through his
veins.

He was not wanted in the world. Indeed, knowing,
as he knew, that George Leland was home from
India  close at his door  he could hardly doubt that
he was very much wanted out of the world. His
wife had been sweet and gentle and tender in all
her dealings with him. What of that ? Women as
soft-handed and as tender have been false as hell.

Didcott had told him that these symptoms meant



heart-disease ; but this proved nothing. Your doctor
rarely finds out that his patient has been poisoned
till after his death. He stands by and watches
the case, and wonders a little, and has a general
feeling that things are not going on pleasantly ; and
then by and by there is a post-mortem, and a scientific
analyst finds traces of poison ; and the family
doctor says he had thought so, aud the consulting
physician deposes that there were grounds for grave
suspicion, but that those grounds vere not quite
strong enough for a cautious medical man, with an
eye to his practice, to proceed upon.

Poisoned ! He remembered how Mark had been
seized in exactly the same way, with precisely the
same symptoms, in that room, after emptying yonder
tankard  the honest old tankard, tinted with
service like a soldier's breastplate, which his father
and grandfather had drunk out of before him ; the
tankard which, in more convivial times, had passed
from hand to hand, as a loving-cup, after boisterous
hunting dinners.

Poisoned ! Yes, his strength had been slowly
sapped, his nerves had been shattered by a mysterious

malady. His heart had beaten with the steady
jog-trot pace of old in the intervals of the disease ;
but when the fit seized him, in a moment the pulse
grew slow and feeble, and the dull languor that was
like death slackened the beating of the heart.

He was to be got rid of  not too suddenly, lest
his death, being so convenient and happy an event
for his widow, should give rise to suspicion. Some
poison must be found which would simulate a mortal
malady, and then, when the belief in that malady
was established, the dose was to be made stronger,
and the victim was to die.

Major Leland was near at hand, waiting for the
end, ready to profit by it, in all likelihood the instigator
of the crime.

He thought in gasps  disjointed  his brain
clouded by that dreadful lethargic heaviness which
bound him to his sofa. Then, with a great effort,
he raised himself on his elbow, and stretched out his
hand to the bell. He was just able to reach it.

'She shall know that I have found her out,' he
muttered ; ' I will not die like a poisoned rat in a
hole  die, and make no sign.'

Send your mistress to me,' he said to the butler,
who appeared at the door.

Yes, sir. I beg your pardon, sir, are you ill ?'
*No. Send your mistress directly.'

Dickson retired, scared by his master's ashy face
and feeble tones. He found Barbara with Mrs.
Trevornock in the morning-room, and delivered his
message. Mrs. Penrith hurried to the study.

*Vyvyan,' she cried, seeing her husband lying
on the sofa, prostrate, helpless, as he had lain that
other day, ' how white and faint you look ! Let me
give you some brandy.'

No, there would be death in it, perhaps. I want
to ask you a question. Stand there, where I can see
your face ; there, facing the light. Great God, what
purity and candour beam in your eyes ! I have had
a letter about you.'

A letter ! From whom ?'

From somebody who knew you before you were
married. Tell me now, Mrs. Penrith, how far had
matters gone "v'ith you and your lover before he went
to India ? I ought to have asked that question
before I married you, ought I not ? But you see I

VOL. III. F

was a fool from the beginning ; I trusted you blindly.
You were with your lover at Southampton before he
sailed ?'

I went to see him on the day he sailed, to say
good-bye to him.'

0, you went only on the day he sailed. You
were not staying at Southampton with him ?'

'"yvyan !' see cried, with an indignant look.

You ought not to be surprised at the question.
A lady who goes alone to a strange town to see her
lover, and is seen with him there, must expect to be
suspected.'

I see,' said Barbara, * Mr. Maulford has told you.
He saw me part from Captain Leland when the
Hesper sailed; he put me into the train. Was it
wrong to go and say good-bye to him on that last
day, Vyvyan ? If it was, I did not know it. He
was my future husband, as I believed then, and we
were to be parted for years. My mother and sister
know how and when I went, how long I was away.
You can question them, if you like.'

'You are a lovely piece of innocence,' gasped
Yyvyan, succumbing again to that deadly faintness ;

and you have planned things cleverly for your lover
and yourself. But perhaps even this last dose of
poison was not quite strong enough, and I may survive
it. Give me the brandy bottle  if  if that is
not poisoned too.'

Vyvyan, dear Yjyan, your mind is wandering
she said, filling a glass of brandy, and holding it to
his lips with a shaking hand.

Ah, your hand trembles ; you are not altogether
stone. You can poison a husband in cold blood, see
him die by inches before your face, make believe to
pity him ; yet, when the end comes, you tremble.'

Frightened out of her senses, Barbara rang the
bell with a desperate peal.

Send for Mr. Didcott as fast as the groom can
ride !' she said to the alarmed Dickson. ' Tell my
mother  no, my sister  to come here directly. Nota
word to Mrs. Trevornock.'

She knelt by her husband's side, and wiped the
icy drops from his brow. Passion had given him a
force that triumphed over his physical weakness ; but
this spurious strength was now exhausted, and he
lay in a state of lethargy, heedless of what was passing

round him. Barbara could only force a few drops
of brandy between his livid lips. The pupils of his
eyes were dilated, and the whole countenance had an
awful look, which to Barbara, who had never seen
death, seemed like death itself.

Flossie came running in breathless.

What's the matter ?' she asked.

Vyvyan is ill  dreadfully ill. Flossie, he has
talked to me about my journey to Southampton as if
it were a wicked act, as if I were a lost creature forgoing
there. You  you can tell him that I only left
you in the early morning, just to see George once
more ; that I was home with you again in the evening
; that I had no thought of wrong-doing ; no idea
that any one could think evil of me for going.'

Of course not,' cried Flossie sharply. ' Brother-in-law,
you ought to be ashamed of yourself forgoing
on in such a horrid way. But, good gracious,
how ill he looks ! too ill to understand me, poor
creature ! What does it mean ?'

I have seen him like this before, but the attack
was not so bad. His mind has been wandering  he
told me he was being poisoned; said that I was

poisoning him. Flossie, Flossie, what shall I do ?'
cried Barbara, bursting into tears.

Do ? Why, send for a doctor. If we were in a
civilised place, I should say send for a policeman.'

I have sent for the doctor. Miss Penrith ought
to be told* Go and fetch her, Flossie. God help
me, I haven't a friend in the world !'

Fetch Miss Penrith, indeed !' muttered Flossie,
as she tore up to her own room. ' Miss Penrith
would have to be a great deal further off before
I'd do it. No, I'll fetch a man  a man with a heart
and brains  who can tell that poor girl what she
ought to do, and protect her against a madman ; for
it looks as if my brother-in-law had gone clean out of
his wits.'

Flossie always dressed quickly for her excursions
on horseback ; but to-day she put herself into
her riding-gear with an amazing rapidity. The
habit fitted well and easily, though it was made by a
Camberwell tailor; the cavalier hat was perched
jauntily on the pretty head ; and Flossie ran downstairs
looking as neat and trim as if she had dressed
in the most leisurely way. She had sent Gilmore

to the stable to order Pepper to be ready in an instant,
an order that could only be executed in a
modified manner ; but the stablemen had done their
best, for when she went into the yard she found one
of them puffing and grumbling as he tugged at
Pepper's girths, protesting that * this yere 'loss do
blow himself out as if he had a blacksmith's belles
inside him.'

You hasn't going' after doctor, be ye, miss ?' said
the man who mounted Flossie ; ' becos Sanderson
galloped off to Camelot on the black mare twenty
minutes ago, and he'll be half-way there by this
time.'

No, Peter, I'm only going for a ride,' Flossie
answered innocently.

She jogged on at a sober pace so long as she
was within sight of the stablemen, who had grouped
themselves at the gate to watch her, with that remarkable
interest in passing events which is only
another name for idleness ; but when the curve of
the road took her out of their view she gave the
reins a shake, and Pepper a slash which sent him
flying.

And when she was once on the moor, with the
crisp hillocky turf under her horse's hoofs, did not
this young lady go ! Over hillock and hollow, heather
and granite, went Pepper, like a horse with
charmed legs, knuckling over and pulling himself
up now and again with marvellous cleverness, and soon
to a smooth stretch of turf beside the road, where
Pepper went as evenly as a racer. Then a pause to
breathe the horse, a little hand playing pit-a-pat on
his neck, an encouraging assurance that he was ' a
good horse, a dear old Pepper;' and anon, while
beguiled by these blandishments he was lapsing into
a comfortable crawl, another rousing slash of the
whalebone, and away again, up hill and down hill,
over gorse and quagmire at a flying canter. And
thus and thus, till they come to the edge of the
moor above Stockport, and see the little harbour
lying in the cleft of the cliff's below them, while
Pepper scents the salt sea-breeze, and tosses his
mane and paws the ground as if he were eager to be
off again.

Flossie trots him briskly down the hill, which
would be dangerously steep if the road did not wind

corkscrew fashion down to the deep hollow where the
little harbour nestles like a tiny world at the bottom
of a pit, a mere dimple on the earth's surface, yet
with its births and deaths, its wooing and marrying,
its friendliness and its feuds, as complete in itself
as if it white as big as the universe.

Here, face to face with a waterfall, stands the
homely comfortable Waterloo Inn, sheltered by steep
green hills from every wind that blows ; a blessed
haven from the storms of life. How sweet a resting-place
to the soldier, after forced marches under torrid
skies, brief slumbers by the wayside, made restless
by the howl of the jackal, the possibility of the cobra,
watching and fasting and toil and danger !

All these were past, and George Leland lounged
in the porch of the Waterloo Inn, smoking his cheroot
and looking idly across the narrow harbour to
the heathery ridge above, where the dark moor
sloped off to unknown distances. He was roused
from a gloomy reverie  the despondent survey of a
world emptied of all delight  by the sharp click-clack
of a horse's hoofs on the hard road, and on
turning his eyes that way he perceived Flossie's

blue riding-habit and the bulky form of the useful
Pepper. He threw away his cigar, and hastened to
meet the solitary Amazon.

'Were you coming to see me?' he exclaimed.
How good of you ! But how agitated you look !
Is there anything wrong ?'

Tremendously wrong !' panted Flossie. ' That
unfortunate brother-in-law of mine seems to have
goneout of his mind. He was in a kind of fit when
I came away, and he had been raving dreadfully 
saying that he was poisoned, accusing Barbara. I
want you to come with me. We are three helpless
women, ma, Bab, and I, in that lonely house, without
a friend ; for I consider Miss Penrith an enemy,
and I can't count Mark, for he's out all day, and of
course, however good-natured he may be, he would
go over to his brother's side in a family quarrel. So
I want you to come : you will be some one on our
side  a soldier, brave, determined, ready to fight for
us. Major Leland, is my sister to be accused of
poisoning people ?' gasped Flossie, in a tumult of
indignation.

By no one but a lunatic,' answered Leland

wrathfully. * I'll come as soon as I can get a horse
saddled.'

There were post-horses at the Waterloo, and a
couple of good hacks into the bargain, one of which
carried the landlord, who was a welter-weight. This
powerful brute George Leland helped to saddle, and
he was mounted and ready to start in less than ten
minutes. Then walking their horses up the hill, the
better to cover the ground when they got to the* top,
the Major asked Flossie for further information as to
the state of affairs at Place.

*Has Mr. Penrith ever treated your sister unkindly
before to-day ?' he asked.

Never. He has been the best of husbands  a
little grumpy, you know ; but that's his way, and it
is a grumpiness that does nobody harm He is nota
bit like that horrid sister of his, whose chief desire
is to domineer over everybody, and to regulate us allas
if she were Charles V., and we were so many
clocks. Vyvyan has been kind to us all  I mean ma,
Bab, and me. He gave me ten pounds to buy this
very habit, when I was going back to Camberwell
after our first visit, and when I had been wearing a

hideous old-fashioned thing of Miss Penrith's which
was so tight in the arm-holes as to be absolute torture,
to say nothing of the sense of obligation, which
was worse. No,' resumed Flossie, after this exr
cursus ; ' I don't believe he ever spoke unkindly to
Barbara before this day, and I feel sure he must have
gone clean out of his wits.'

Did your sister tell you to come for me ?' asked
the Major, faltering a little.

Not she ! Bab never had a business-like idea
in her life. Bab is the sort of person who in a great
calamity would sit upon the ground, and cry, *' Allah
is good ! Kismet !" or some nonsense of that kind.
Was it not I who always had to tackle Mr. T. ? and
even now, in spite of the income Barbara allows us,
I would get the Queen's taxes and poor-rates out of
him if ma would let me. Barbara has not an idea
that I have come for you. She told me to go and
fetch Miss Penrith. I should like to have seen
myself doing it ! " I'd see her further first, and
then I wouldn't," ' added Flossie, quoting the burlesque
of Conrad and Medora, which was just now
the rage in London.

They were at the top of the hill by this time.

Now, Flossie,' said the Major, ' if you're sure of
your seat and are not afraid of a hand-gallop, show
me the way to Place.'

All right,' answered the girl, bracing her bridle,
and giving Pepper a smart lash on his shoulder.
Away they went, as if they were riding a steeplechase,
skimming cleverly over hillocky ground,
plunging up to the horses' hocks through bog and
slush ; then spinning away swifter than ostriches
across the good firm turf, here and there leaping a
low furze-bush in the excitement of the chase ; and
so to the open gates of the oak plantation, and on at
a sharp trot to the house.

Here all was confusion. Vyvyan still lay in that
awful death-like lethargy into which he had fallen
when his passion had exhausted itself. He had been
carried to his own room and laid upon his own bed,
and the household had done what they could for him,
but without avail. Mrs. Morris, as a person accustomed
to sickness, had been called upon. Miss Pen-ruth
standing by and giving orders, but doing nothing.
The messenger had returned from Camelot

with the news that Mr. Didcott was from home, and
likely to be away all day, as he had a difficult case at
a farmhouse nine miles from the town, St. Columb
way. The man had been despatched to Launceston
straightway on a fresh horse, to get a doctor from
that town, but there was no chance of his being back
for the next hour.

In the absence of medical advice Mrs. Morris
had taken upon herself to protest against brandy
being given to the patient, although Barbara declared
that it had cured him upon a previous occasion.

Nothing worse than brandy where the head is
affected,' said Mrs. Morris decidedly. ' Inflammatory

Miss Penrith, who had a natural bent to teetotalism,
and looked upon all use of alcohol as intemperance,
supported her confidential servant in this
view of the case ; so no brandy was administered
to Vyvyan after those few drops which Barbara had
forced between his lips. He lay like a log, the
scared wife and sister watching him, the old butler
in attendance, with the vague idea of doing something
useful presently, and of all the group only
Mrs. Morris self-possessed or capable. She sat

by the bed as calmly as if she had been watching
by a child's cradle while it slept the happy sleep
of healthful infancy.

Barbara paced up and down the room  now wishing
that the doctor were come, now wondering why
Mark was not there  praying inwardly for help.

Upon this scene entered George Leland and
Flossie, who had heard from the footman below the
state of things upstairs.

I hope you won't be angry with me,' said Flossie.
I rode over to Stockport to fetch Major Leland ; for
I thought he would be able to advise you.'

Barbara turned to her lover with a look  first
surprise mingled with fear, then ineffable confidence.
He had come as her friend, her protector, her guide,
her counsellor.

0,' she cried piteously, * help us if you can ; my
poor husband is dying, and no one knows what to do
to save him. We have no doctor, and no one to
advise.'

It was afternoon, and the westward-sloping sun
was shining full into the room. George Leland
looked round at all the faces, taking in every detail

of the scene, every variety of expression in the actors,
with a swift scrutiny. He was a man accustomed to
emergencies, skilled in reading character, a man who
had led a hard life and seen strange things and
strange people. He had been judge and jury, prosecutor
and advocate, in the days of his Indian commissionership.
He had dealt largely with cheats and
rascals, and he knew the seamy side of human nature
as well as any one.

He read the story of those faces. Miss Penrith
fretful, sanctimonious, inclined to be malignant.
The old butler a model of faithful imbecility. These
were as easy to read as the big letters in a baby's
alphabet. But here was a countenance whose meaning
was printed in a different type, and needed a
longer scrutiny ; this calm hard face framed in a
widow's cap, these bugle-bright black eyes which
shifted nervously as they looked at him, these thin
cruel lips closed as tight as metal springs, yet agitated
by a nervous quivering for a moment or two
while he watched the face.

Tell me what is the matter, Mrs. Penrith,' he
said gently, going up to the bedside, where his

rival lay motionless, seemingly senseless. ' Tell
me all you can. I am half a doctor ; for it was my
luck to see a good deal of sickness at the infirmary
where I had temporary quarters while I was superintending
the building of a new hospital, to say
nothing of my experience on long marches, when
I have had to be surgeon as well as captain.'

Barbara, trembling a little, told him as much
as she knew of the symptoms of the case; told
him how she had seen her husband affected months
ago in a similar manner, but less violently ; how a
glass of brandy had then revived him.

Indeed ! And you have been giving him brandy
now, I suppose ?'

*No,' said Barbara; 'Mrs. Morris thought it
wiser not.'

Give me the bottle, please,' said the Major,
with an observant look at the widow, who was a
shade paler than when he entered the room. * Your
experience should have prevailed over Mrs. Morris's
wisdom, Mrs. Penrith.'

With the help of Dickson, who was adipose and
jelly-fish-like in build, but who had a heart of gold.

Major Leland contrived to force half a tumbler of
brandy down Yyvyan's throat. Then he looked at
his eyes, saw the unnatural dilatation of the pupil,
felt his pulse, heart, the temperature of his skin,
noted the swollen lips.

I have seen just such symptoms in a case of
snake-bite,' he said. ' Have you any ammonia in
the house ?'

Miss Penrith's mind had been curiously divided
between a sense of relief in the fact that some one
had come to her brother's assistance and intense
indignation at his impertinence in coming. She
now opened her lips for the first time since Major
Leland's entrance, and in sometime relaxed the
stony stare with which she had been regarding him.

'I think I have a little,' she said, *in my
dressing-case. Go and fetch it, Morris,  a small
stoppered bottle, labelled sal volatile.'

The inestimable Morris obeyed, moving slowly
and rigidly, as if she had been a mechanical figure.

VOL. III.

WHY SHOULD I THANK HIM T

Flossie tells me that Mr. Penrith talked about
being poisoned said George Leland, in a low voice
to Barbara, while Mrs. Morris was gone to fetch
the ammonia. ' Is that true ?'

Yes ; he said he had been poisoned  he talked
wildly about poison.'

I am hardly surprised, for the symptoms look
terribly like that, and nothing else.'

Good Heavens !' cried Barbara; ' but who could
give him poison ? How could poison come in his
way?'

Accidentally, perhaps. One can never tell.
You cannot do wrong in giving him powerful stimulants.
It looks like a case of narcotic poison. I
saw exactly these symptoms  the same look in the
eyes, the same lethargy  in a man who was being
treated for heart-disease in the infirmary I was
telling you about. The surgeon had given him

gentle doses of an infusion of digitalis  foxglove
you know  as a sedative ; and one night the fellow
had an attack of palpitation, and, believing that
if a little of the stuff gave him a little relief, a
good deal of it would cure him altogether, he got up
while every one in the ward was asleep, and emptied
the bottle. He was pretty near death, I can tell
you ; and it was only by dosing him with ammonia
and strong coffee that the doctor brought him
round.'

And you think Vyv3an has been taking some
preparation of foxglove ?' said Barbara, standing by
the bed, chafing her husband's icy hands, while
Miss Penrith stood on the opposite side, listening
intently.

Mrs. Morris came in at this moment, followed
closely by Mark, who hurried into the room in an
agitated manner, whip in hand, having jumped off
his horse a minute ago, and rushed straight from
the stable-yard.

Is he better "?' he cried.

He is still living,' answered Priscilla. ' We
must be thankful for that. This gentleman, an old

friend of Mrs. Penrith's, is trying to render us
assistance in the absence of any doctor.'

Has no doctor come ?'

Not yet. Mr. Didcott was away.'

'Yes, William told me. You have sent to
Launceston, I suppose ?'

Yes ; the messenger ought to be back by this
time. 0, dear, dear !' exclaimed Priscilla, watching
Major Leland, who, with Barbara's help, was administering
a dose of ammonia, 'I trust in God
we are doing what is right. Major Leland, you
are not tampering with that precious life ? you
are sure that this is proper treatment ?'

I am doing what I would do if Mr. Penrith
were my own father,' answered Leland; 'I should
act in exactly the same manner if his life were of
all lives the most precious to me.'

How long has he been like this ?' asked Mark,
looking down at his brother.

Since twelve o'clock. It was a sudden seizure.
Mrs. Penrith was with him.'

*It is his heart that is affected,' said Mark,
looking at Major Leland. ' For mercy's sake don't

try to doctor him unless you know all about heart-disease
!'

This is no heart-disease,' answered Leland.
Your brother is suffering from the effect of some
powerful narcotic poison.'

'Poison!' cried Mark. 'How should he be
poisoned ?'

'It is for you and Mrs. Penrith to find out
that.'

'But he has suffered from such attacks  not
so bad as this ; but the same kind of thing  for
the last three months. The doctor examined him,
and told him that his heart was out of order. The
complaint is hereditary. My father dropped down
dead. I have had the same kind of attack.'

Then I think you must have taken the same
kind of poison.'

Mark stared at him with a ghastly face, remembering
that draught of beer out of his brother's
tankard, and how it was only on that one occasion
he had been attacked by his brother's malady.

'Great God!' he cried, 'if this is true, there
must be some devil in the house !'

He looked round among the assembled faces,
aghast with horror  looked in vacant wonder, till
one face amidst them all, standing vividly out from
the rest, as if the dark secrets of the soul behind
it were written upon it in characters of fire, riveted
his gaze.

"Which of all those faces looked like a devil's ?
This one, most surely; this rigid countenance lit
by the serpent's glittering eyes, with the cruel
downward curve of the serpent's venomous mouth ;
this face which had once seemed so fair in Mark
Penrith's sight, a face to peril fortune for; this
face set off and garnished by the widow's cap, the
sleek banded hair; this bloodless countenance in
which the livid hue of the cheeks seemed more unnatural
because of the one central spot of hectic
which burned on each, like the print of a Satanic
kiss.

Mark staggered to his brother's bedside, and
flung himself down against the pillows, interposing
his body between Vyvyan's motionless figure and
all the rest of the world. For some moments he
remained thus, speechless, leaning against his brother,

as a dog might have done, with something of a
dog's fidelity; and as he hung over the sick man
thus, old memories of boyish days came back to him ;
the time when he had revered and admired Vyvyan
as the tall grown-up brother  a young man while
Mark was still a child ; the day when Vyvyan had
mounted him on a rat of an Exmoor pony and taken
him for his first ride, with a leading-rein. Many
a brotherly kindness, many an act of love flashed
across Mark's memory as he leant upon his brother's
bed in the fast darkening room.

If there has been foul play,' he muttered
hoarsely, ' I will not spare the poisoner. No ; I
will not spare !'

The powerful stimulants were beginning to take
effect. The patient stirred and moaned in his sleep.

They watched him thus for a long and anxious
hour, watched and waited in silence, while George
Leland administered brandy or ammonia from time
to time, and kept Mrs. Morris hard at work heating
flannels and filling hot-water bottles to be applied
to the patient's feet. The sluggish heart began to
move a little more naturally, the cold sweat cleared

off the pale fixed face, the swollen lips lost something
of their livid hue, and a faint tinge of red
came hack to the hollow cheeks.

I believe he will live through it,' said George
Leland at last.

Could not an emetic have been given him ?'
asked Mark.

Yes, if any one had thought of it when the
attack began ; but after three or four hours it would
be fatal. I remember what the surgeon at our
infirmary said about it. I am simply copying his
treatment. He saved his man, and, please God, we
shall save ours.'

You are a good fellow,' said Mark.

*I am Mrs. Penrith's faithful friend,' answered
Leland ; * that is my highest merit.'

After this there was silence for some time, Mark
not stirring from his post at his brother's side,
Barbara sitting close by, George Leland standing
at the foot of the bed. On the other side sat Miss
Penrith and Mrs. Morris, the former seeking consolation
alternately from an open book of Precious
Balms for Broken Spirits, by an unknown Colonial

bishop, and a silver vinaigrette. Flossie was with
her mother in Barbara's dressing-room, the door of
communication being open, to allow of the younger
lady peeping in every five minutes or so, and asking
in a whisper of nobody in particular,

Is he getting better ?'

He was so much better presently that he turned
on his pillow, opened his eyes, and recognised his
brother.

What, Mark, old fellow, is that you ?'

Yes, Yyvyan. Thank God, you know me.'

Vyvyan tried to raise himself; but the effort
brought on intense giddiness.

No,' he muttered ; ' I must lie here like a log,
lie here till I die.'

He took no notice of Major Leland, whose tall
figure was partly hidden by the curtain. His dull
eyes took heed of no one but his brother, whose arm
he could feel round him.

Just at this moment the Launceston doctor
entered  a middle-aged man, bald, spectacled, with
a sagacious highly-polished brow, and a comfortable
manner, soothing as a sedative.

To him Barbara turned with delight.

Thank Heaven, you have come !' she said.

This gentleman, Major Leland, has been helping
us in our dreadful difficulty. He will tell you what
he has done  what he thinks  '

My dear lady, do not distress yourself,' said
the doctor, looking round at the assembled multitude.
* The first thing will be to get the room
cleared of everybody except yourself; and Major  er
Selim,' he added, making a dash at the name,

who will kindly inform me what he has been
doing.'

Mark turned from his brother's bed with a
reluctant air, and walked slowly towards the door,
looking curiously at Mrs. Morris as he passed her,
like a man who has some fearful thought half-shaped
in his brain.

Miss Penrith retired to the dressing-room where
Flossie and her mother were waiting ; but she did
not go without a protest.

Nobody can be more interested in my brother's
health than I am,' she said; 'not even his wife;
certainly not a stranger, however obliging.'

My dear madam, I am aware how trying such
an occasion must be for you, as well as for Mrs.
Penrith; but quiet is indispensable. You maybe
within call. You shall have immediate information
of any change in our patient.'

With these reassuring words the strange doctor,
who seemed as much at home as if he had brought
a generation or two of Penruths into the world, led
Priscilla to the dressing-room, and dismissed her
with a bland smile. Mrs. Morris had silently retired
by the door leading into the gallery.

Then, having closed the door carefully, Mr. Fordyce,
the Launceston doctor, came quietly back to
the bedside, and proceeded to examine his patient.

Consciousness had in some degree returned.
Vyvyan looked full at the stranger with glassy eyes,
the pupils still unnaturally dilated.

Mr. Penrith was seized with this disorder soon
after noon to-day, I understand ?' said Mr. Fordyce.

*Yes,' answered Barbara. 'He has had the
same kind of illness before, but not with such violence.
To-day he told me that he believed he was
poisoned. When he said this I thought his mind

was . affected ; but Major Leland, who came over
from Kockport to help us in our distress, thinks
that my husband's illness is really caused by poison.'


Pray, sir, may I ask what ground you have for
such an opinion ?' Mr. Fordyce inquired coolly, ashe
went on with his examination of the patient.

Simply that I have seen a case of narcotic poisoning
in which the symptoms were precisely similar.
I have applied the same remedies I saw used in that
case, and with the same happy effect. When I
came here two hours ago, Mr. Penrith was in a
deathlike stupor, his pulse hardly perceptible.'

So you are Major Leland ?' said Vyvyan, turning
his haggard face towards the soldier.

What was the nature of the poison in the case
you speak of?' asked the doctor.

Digitalis,' replied Leland ; and then he went
on to describe the case at the Indian hospital.

Mr. Fordyce listened ; but did not commit himself
to an opinion, save to express mild approval of
Major Leland's treatment.

You could hardly have done better under the

circumstances,' he said. ' Your remedies were judicious,
and safe.'

*And you find Mr. Penrith's pulse recovering
its vitality, I hope ?'

Yes, there is a return of vitality ; slow, but
palpable.'

Then I cannot do better than leave him in such
good hands,' said Leland quietly. ' Good-night,
Mrs. Penrith.'

'Yyvyan,' exclaimed Barbara piteously, seeing
her husband's eyes fixed on George Leland with a
wrathful look even in their glassy vacancy, 'won't
you speak to Major Leland before he goes ? Won't
you give him one good word for saving your life ?'

Why should I thank him for so questionable a
boon ?' asked Yyvyan, with faint slow speech. ' It
might have been better to let me go. Somebody
must have wanted me out of the world very badly.'

I desire no thanks,' answered Leland. * I did
what I would have done for any soivar in my company
; no more than I have done for many a cholera-smitten
wretch by the wayside. Good-night, Mrs.
Penrith.*

Barbara followed him to the door.

Don't go away,' she pleaded ; * I feel as if we
were all safer while you are here. This strange
doctor will not stay long, perhaps, and then we shall
be alone and helpless again. If Vyvyan has been
poisoned, as you think, and as he thinks, there must
be a hidden enemy in this house.'

I believe there is,' said Leland. ' What do
you know of that widow, your sister-in-law's maid ?'

Nothing, except that Miss Penrith has a high
opinion of her.'

I have just the opposite idea. And I believe
your brother-in-law is of the same way of thinking.
I saw him look at her curiously just now.'

I am full of fears,' said Barbara. ' You will
stay, won't you ?'

If you bid me stay, yes. What have I to live
for so sweet as to be useful to you ?'

Go down to the drawing-room. I will send my
mother and Flossie to take care of you. I shall not
leave this room.'

You are right. Your place is here.'
Barbara went back to the bedside.

A very sensible person that Major Elam,' said
Mr. Fordyce. ' His remedies are perfectly unobjectionable
; in fact so much so, that I shall pursue the
same treatment myself, with certain amplifications.
You have a nurse, I presume  some trusty old servant
who can carry out my instructions ?'

*I will be my husband's only nurse, if you
please,' answered Barbara firmly. 'I am quite able
to do anything you require done.'

But you are so young and inexperienced.'

That is nothing. I have a mind than can learn,
I hope ; and I will obey your instructions most
faithfully.'

Very well, my dear young lady, I will not refuse
to indulge so natural a desire. I shall not
leave Mr. Penrith while his condition is critical.
And now tell me, dear madam, have you any idea of
any possible manner in which your husband can
have accidentally taken poison ? Do you know
of any poisonous medicine having been in the
house ?'

No, indeed. There has been no medicine sent
for any one since my husband's recovery from a cold

and low fever, during which Mr. Didcott attended
him.'

*Well, perhaps it may be better to reserve all
speculation upon this subject till I see Mr. Didcott.
It would be well if Didcott could be here before I
leave. Your groom said he was expected to return
to his house at Hamlet early in the evening. Would
it be too much to ask that a messenger might be
sent to request him to drive over here at whatever
hour he may return ?'

It shall be done,' said Barbara, ringing the bell.

She gave the order to Gilmore, who promised to
go herself to the stable and give the message to the
right man. Mr. Penrith's dogcart was to be sent
over to Camelot, and was to wait there till the surgeon
could be brought back.

LINKS IN THE CHAIN.

Mark went slowly down stairs through the gathering
dusk, scarce knowing where he went, or why he
chose one direction more than another. Mrs. Morris
had vanished in the darkness of the up stairs gallery,
whether to Priscilla's room or her own Mark
knew not. In the hall below all was dusk and
silence. The servants, reassured h} the coming of
the doctor, were at tea in the distant kitchen. The
lamps were not yet lighted.

The study-door stood open, and the red firelight
within had a cosy look, or would have had to a man
disposed to see the comfortable side of things ; but
for Mark at this moment life was steeped in densest
gloom. He felt weighed down beneath such a
burden of dread and terror as he had never till now
been called upon to bear. The fears that had
harassed him when his accounts at the quarries were
all wrong, and he lived in hourly dread of detection,

VOL. III. H

were as nothing compared with this awful apprehension
of to-day.

Poison : that is to say, secret murder in its
basest, most insidious form. Some one, in this
honest old house, under the roof-tree that had covered
generations of God-fearing single-minded men
and women, had been plotting against the master's
life, sapping his strength, crushing his spirits, imbuing
him with the ever-present fear of sudden
death, preparing by slow and gradual measures for
the final stroke which was to consummate a murder.

Who was that secret plotter? AYho had most
interest in making a speedy end of Yyvyan's life ?
Was it the fair young wife, whose old lover had
come back, with fame and honour, ready to pick up
the dropped thread of a broken love-story ? Surely
there could be no one else more likely to desire
Yyvyan's death, no one who* would profit more ; for
what can be greater gain than to go back to one's
first true love, and be happy ?

Mark would willingly have persuaded himself that
Barbara was the guilty one ; but he could not. The
sweet face, in all its tender beauty, rose before his eye,

the face he had seen hanging over his brother's bed,
like an angel's, full of pity. Xo ; to plot murder
and look thus must be beyond the power of humanity.
Dissimulation may go far, but not to such a point as
this. And there had been that other face by the
same' bed, a face once passing fair in his sight, but
where now he saw the brand of Cain.

And he remembered with infinite horror that
night in the cottage on the St. Columb road, when
Lewis Maulford had discussed the younger brother's
chances of inheriting the estate, how those shrewd
black eyes had glittered with the rapture of a greedy
soul that foresees the accomplishment of its desire,
and how the wife of his bosom had cried, ' If
Yyvyan were to die ; if he were to fall down ina
fit!'

The thought of death had been there  thought
and desire too. And then swift on the heels of this
knowledge, acquired from Maulford, had come
Molly's ardent wish to be domesticated at Place ;
that scheme of hers which had seemed to Mark so
foolish and motiveless, but to which his weaker
nature had yielded, as it yielded always to her persuasive

tongue, her kindling eyes, her superior
power of argument, which went so far as to make
the most illogical reasoning appear logical and
sound. He had yielded, angry with himself for
yielding. He had brought his low-born wife into
his brother's house, disguised, falsified, with a false
character. He had done this thing believing that
he was indulging a woman in a foolish whim, the
gratification of which could do no serious harm to
anybody ; though it was likely to inflict inconvenience,
possibly discredit, upon himself. And now all
his senses were paralysed by the horrible fear that
this seeming caprice was part of a deadly plan ; that
Molly had crossed the threshold with the deliberate
intent of shortening his brother's days.

He went into the firelight study, and shut the
door, and sat down on his brother's sofa, which had
been wheeled to the fireside, and thought of all those
facts in the past and present which made the links
in the chain of evidence by which his wife was to be
judged. He remembered her greed of gain ; how
she had always harped upon and built upon his
chances of succeeding to his brother's estate ; with

what malignant envy she had always regarded Barbara;
how arrogantly she had asserted her own
claim, as the mother of three brawny boys, against
that childless wife. He considered how unlike her
natural disposition it was to wish to lower herself to
menial offices ; she, who had looked back at her
days of service with such contemptuous self-pity,
and had boasted that with the Lanterns she had
been more like the mistress than the servant. Yet
to gratify this fancy of hers, with no stronger motive
than a vague idea of acquiring an influence over
Yyvyan, she had borne with the caprices and petty
tyrannies of a most exacting mistress, she had subjugated
her own nature, repressed every feeling,
separated herself for more than half a year from her
children, left house and home, belied every attribute
of her mind, and to all seeming was no nearer
achieving her alleged purpose than she had been the
day she first entered the house.

And then Mark recollected that the change in
his brother's health had only come about after Molly
had been domiciled at Place. Until this year there
had been no man in Cornwall hardier or stronger

than Vyvyan. But within three months of Mrs.
Morris's advent the insidious malady had begun, and
the man's whole constitution had changed.

He remembered how he had been attacked in
precisely the same manner after emptying his brother's
tankard of home brewed beer. And this
attack had not recurred ; there was nothing in the
beat of his heart to-night, even under the agitation
of this horrible fear, to indicate weakness or disease.
Could he doubt that the cause had been in the
draught ? that the beer, brewed after the same
recipe for a century and more, had been drugged ?

There was the tankard, left on the table after his
brother had taken his last draught out of it  the
draught of triple strength which had been intended
to despatch him ; for the murderer, having prepared
every one for the end, and hoodwinked the doctor,
had no motive for delaying the final stroke any longer.
Mark rose and took up the tankard, and lifted the
lid to see if there was any of the beer left. Yes,
there was about a tablespoonful of liquor at the bottom
of the vessel  just enough for analysis, he fancied,
knowing very little about such things.

If it is she who has done this thing, I will
do nothing to help in hiding her guilt,' he said to
himself; 'I will not try to shield or to save her.
No, though she is my wife, and the mother of
my children, I will remember nothing except that
she came into my brother's house by stealth, and
tried to murder him. Thank God, she has failed :
yes, though I were to be a beggar and an outcast for
the rest of my life, I can thank God with all my
heart that this iniquitous plot has failed.'

He flung himself down upon the sofa, and drew
'yvyan's fur carriage-rug over his shoulders. He
lay thus with his eyes closed, not inclined to sleep,
but worn out with the agitations of the afternoon,
and the turmoil of soul he had suffered since the
groom rushed into his office at the quarries to tell
him that his brother was dying, and that he must
ride his hardest home if he wanted to see him again
before he died.

Lying thus, with the fur rug flung over him,
Mark's figure was only faintly discernible in the
fire-lit room ; not visible at all to the person who
crept in presently, with stealthy foot and cautious

movements, and stole slowly towards the table where
the silver tankard glimmered amidst a confusion of
papers, hunting-whips, and hats.

Mark lay with his back to this table, and his face
towards a bookcase opposite, an old-fashioned bookcase,
with a glass door above and drawers below, a
bookcase of the period when the average gentleman's
library could be shut up in a very small space, and
was apt to be kept, like stuffed birds or geological
specimens, behind perpetual glass.

The firelight was shining on the glass door, making
it almost as good a reflecting surface as if it had
been a mirror, and this reflecting surface showed
Mark Penrith the figure of his wife bending over the
table, peering into the open tankard.

She moved suddenly towards the fireplace with
the tankard in her hand. He guessed that she was
going to throw the dregs of the draught into the
grate, and sprang up from his sofa to stop her.

Startled by his sudden appearance in a room she
had believed empty, Molly drew back with a stifled
scream, and let him take the tankard from her hand ;
but, recovering her self-possession in the next instant,
she tried to get it from him.

What do you want with it ?' she asked. * I was
sent here. I am going to take it to Dickson.'

Dickson can do without it for a few hours. I
am going to put this tankard under lock and key.'

ON A DARK ROAD.

Mark opened a door in the panelling near the fireplace,
where there was a roomy closet in which the
Squire kept the accumulated rubbish of years  horse-balls
and old newspapers, discarded bits and bridles,
damaged whips, rusty spurs. Here on a shelf Mark
set the silver tankard, and then shut and locked the
door upon it, and put the key in his pocket.

What have you done that for ?' asked his wife,
confronting him, hideous as a baffled fury, her pallid
lips working convulsively, every feature distorted
with passion.

That he should rise up against her, this easy-tempered
husband, whom she had managed, and
bullied, and worked her own will with, during all
the years of their married life, was a crushing blow.
To meet resistance from so weak a thing was maddening.


'Because my brother has been poisoned, and

there may be some trace of the poison in that
tankard. I had a drink out of it once, and I know
how I felt after that drink.'

Are you out of your senses as well as the rest
of them ?' exclaimed Molly contemptuously. ' Your
brother is dying of heart-disease. Mr. Didcott knows
that. And because he gets delirious and talks about
poison, and his wife's lover comes here to echo the
cry  more shame to her for inviting him here at
such a time  you must take it into your head to be
mighty clever and take up the same story. I've no
patience with such idiocy.'

Come,' said Mark, with a look and manner she
had never seen in him before  the look of a man
who can be master when his time comes  ' don't let
US' bandy words. I have found you out, woman, and
I have done with you. I never knew what it was to
be sick or sorry till the evil day you got hold of me.
I've never been a happy man since I've known you.
But it's all over and done with now. You and I are
parted; and if you ever try to set up any claim
upon me, I'll do my best to put a rope round your
neck.'

'You are a fool!' crier Molly, looking at him
with eyes that once had power to make him shiver,
but whose angry fire he could defy now he knew the
devil's nature that sparkled in them.

No, I have been an arrant fool, but my eyes are
opened. I have sat alone in this room for the last
hour, thinking over your wickedness. you devil !
To steal into my brother's house, and try to take his
life; so that you might come here and sit in his
wife's place, and sleep  you would have slept peacefully,
I suppose  in the bed where he now lies at
death's door. Come, why should I waste words on
you ? I know you. That's enough. Come with
me.'

Where ?'

To the hall-door. You have finished your business
here, and you've made a mess of it. Please
God, my poor brother will live through to-night,
and be sound and hale again before he's a month
older.'

'You are not going to turn me out of doors,
Mark?'

That is just what I am going to do. You ought

to think yourself lucky if you get off scot-free,
and go and hide your wicked head in another
county.'

This meant, in Mark's idea, remotest exile. A
man who left Cornwall was, as it were, at the Antipodes.


You would turn me out of doors after dark, to
lose myself on the moor ?'

You'll find the road easily enough. Perhaps it
might be the best thing for yourself and others if
you were to get lost. If you stay here much longer
you may have the constables taking you off to
Launceston jail.'

Who would dare to accuse me ?' asked Molly
boldly.

Facts ! Facts which speak pretty plain in this
case.'

*What facts? Who can say that I ever tampered
with poison? Who can show that I ever
bought poison ?'

*No need to buy the poison that grows in all
our hedges. A few young foxglove leaves were all
you wanted for your work. Will you go quietly, or

shall I tell Dickson to put you out, or send one of
the men for a constable ?'

Do you mean it ? Do you mean that you can
stand there, and in cold blood accuse your wife 
your honest wedded wife  of being  '

The white lips faltered. Audacity was this
woman's strong point, but there was a limit even
to her daring.

*A secret poisoner. Yes, that is what I know
you to be.'

If any one has tried to poison your brother, it
must be his wife. She wants to get rid of him,
that she may go back to her old sweetheart. That
ought to be clear enough even to a fool like you.
Didn't I see those two plotting together a month
ago, and isn't he here now to see how their plot
works ? Easy enough for him to find out what the
poison was, when it was he and she that gave it.
I suppose he means to give an extra dose presently,
under pretence of curing your brother. It's a deep-laid
scheme, Mark; but if you weren't a fool you'd
see through it as easy as I can.'

Are you going, or shall I send for the constable ?'

'I am going. If I drop down dead on the way,
my death shall lie at your door.'

Your life has lain at my door, and has been a
heavy load for me to hear.'

You would not shed a tear, I suppose, if you
were to hear of my death ?'

*Not one. I should thank God for having removed
a monster from the earth.'

My children !' she cried, turning upon him suddenly
like a tigress. ' My three bonny boys ! What
is to become of them ?'

They will be taken care of ; you need have no
fear for them ; they have done no wrong.'

She made no further remonstrance, but watched
his face closely as they went across the hall in the
lamplight. If she had seen any sign of wavering
there, in the face she knew so well, she would have
stood her ground and defied this husband of hers,
and brazened out the situation to the very end. But
she saw in this familiar countenance an unfamiliar
look that paralysed her and made her submissive to
her own degradation, a look that meant indomitable

will. For once in his life Mark's manhood asserted
itself, and he was master.

Do you mean that you and me are to part forever
like this ?' she asked, turning round and facing
him on the threshold.

God grant I may never see your face again !'

Will you let me run up-stairs to my room for a
shawl or a cloak ? I shall be frozen to death out on
the moor.'

I won't trust you out of my sight. You will be
creeping into my brother's room and giving him another
dose. His life is not safe while you are in the
house.'

'You are on a false scent, as I told you just now,'
she said ; ' but it's no use arguing with a madman,
I suppose. I am not going out on the moor to perish
with cold. You can go up-stairs with me if you like,
and wait outside my door while I get my shawl.'

He did not wish her to die of cold, any more than
he wished her to die on the gallows. He only wanted
to get rid of her out of his own life and his brother's,
to make a swift end of her as a source of danger and
woe. So he just grunted an ungracious assent ; and

they went up the back staircase together, to that
modest apartment roofed diagonally by a picturesque
gable, which had been considered good enough for
Miss Penrith's maid.

Don't be long,' said Mark, as she went into the
room.

She was not long. She had made up her mind
what she had to do, and did it quickly. She flew to
the clumsy old chest of drawers in a corner of the
room, unlocked a drawer, and took out a large bottle
of a brownish-coloured liquid, labelled Rosemary
Hair-wash. She ran to the lattice, opened it, and
emptied the contents of the bottle oyer the ivy which
grew thickly up to the window-sill. Then she took a
small flat brown-paper parcel from the same drawer,
and thrust it into her bosom.

These were all the instruments of a rural Borgia.
No casket with spring lock, no retorts, or crucibles,
or furnaces, or glass masks, or automatic death-dealing
rings had been necessary to her trade. A bunch
of leaves and flowers out of the hedges had been all
she needed for secret murder.

She snatched a warm jacket from a peg, put on

VOL. III. I

her close widow's bonnet, and rejoined Mark on the
landing.

He led the way down stairs without a word, she
meekly following, till they came to the hall-door.
Here Mark stopped to get a coat and hat from the
adjacent room where such things were kept.

I am going as far as the gate with you,' he
said grimly.  I want to see you cigar of the premises.'


It was a fine wintry night, planets and constellations
shining in the clear cold sky, the moan of
distant waves making melancholy music.

Husband and wife walked side by side along the
broad gravel road, side by side in unbroken silence,
till they came to the lodge. The gates had been
shut at dusk, and the lodge-keeper came out to open
them, and looked wonderingly at the widow and her
companion.

Good-night,' said Molly, with a last malignant
look, when the gate was opened.

Good-night,' answered her husband ; and so they
parted, she walking briskly away on the high-road.

*Ygu know that person?' Mark said to the lodge-keeper,

when Mrs. Morris's black figure was lost in
night and distance.

Yes, sir; I d' know she well enow. 'Tes Miss
Penrith's maid.'

Miss Penrith has dismissed her. You are not
to admit her on any pretence whatever.'

No, sir, surely. But if she d' come i' the daytime
when the gate's open, she'd have nowt to do but
walk straight through.'

You have ej-es to see her in the daytime. If
she come to this gate, stop her. She has no right
on my brother's land. Give her in charge as a trespasser.'


Has she been staying, Mr. Mark, a respectable-looking'
widow like that ?'

Never mind what she has been doing. All you
have to do is to keep her off the premises.'

The man shrugged his shoulders and shook his
head significantly, as if imagination made up to him
in sometime for his ignorance of actual fact.

Molly went her way over the moor, a desperate
creature, full to the brim of evil passions and evil
wishes; hating every one in the old house yonder.

whose lighted windows made but the faintest glimmer
in the distance, when she stopped upon her
lonely road for a minute to hug her jacket closer to
her chest, and to look back at the paradise from
which she had been expelled.

She had made her attempt to win house and fortune
for herself and her children, bringing all her
cleverness to bear, plotting and planning with a cool
brain, carrying out her work with an unfaltering
hand, patiently, doggedly proceeding on her dark
road, till the goal seemed close ; and then, swift as a
flash, had come failure and discovery.

She had known from the moment that Indian
soldier entered the room that her chance was lost.
She had felt, rather than seen, his eyes reading her
face, and the secrets of her soul written there. She
hated him almost as intensely as she hated her weak
husband, who had found a will of his own just at the
very crisis when it was vital to her that he should be
blindly submissive.

I could have held my ground but for Mark's
interference,' she thought ; ' so long as no one in
that house knew who I was, no one had any reason

for suspecting me. But with that prating fool against
me, I should he ruined. And now what is to become
of me, I wonder ? What have I got to care about,
or to live for ?'

And then, tramping steadily along the lonely'
moorland road, where you might walk for an hour
without meeting a mortal, this woman set herself to
argue that question which dilettante philosophers
lounging in Jacobean drawing-rooms, made beautiful
by blue-and-white crockery on sage-green walls, have
lately asked mankind to consider,  is life worth living
? What was it worth to this baffled plotter, who
had lost the prize for which she had ventured so
deep, and who saw nothing in all her days to come
but disappointment and disgrace ? Conscience had
no terrors for her, remorse no sting ; in her case the
worm and the fire were in the sense of failure ; to
have gone so far and succeeded so well, and 3'et to
have failed at last.

She saw no hope in the future, even if she could
clear herself in Mark's sight, and convince him that
she was innocent of the crime with which he had
charged her, and win him back again as a yielding

and indulgent husband. What, then, even if this
were possible, which seemed unlikely ? What then ?
Mark could not give her Place, or any part of the
wealth that went along with it. Were he to declare
his marriage he would be a beggar. He had told
her as much many a time ; and now that she had
lived under Vyvyan's roof she was more inclined to
believe in her husband's view of the Squire's character.
He was a hard man ; a man not to be moved
from his opinions or his prejudices ; capable of generosity,
but with an incapacity to pardon. And if
Mark kept the secret of his low marriage, and the
thread of life were to be taken up again just where it
had been dropped at the cottage on the St. Columb
road ?  a decent life enough, surely, for a vagabond
seaman's daughter, a woman who had begun her
career in a low public-house at Davenport, and for
whom the bar at the King's Arms, and the decent
dulness of Camelot, had been promotion. But for
Molly such a life did not seem worth living. She
had looked forward to something much better than
this in those summer evenings when she and Mark
Penrith walked in the lanes near Camelot, and her

heart swelled with pride at the thought of her gentleman
lover's subjugation. "When she married him,
she had in her own mind made herself the future
mistress of Place. Yyvyan was a confirmed bachelor,
whose solitary life and eccentric habits made him
appear much older than he was. Vyvyan would be
brought to forgive his brother's foolish marriage 
Molly had an overweening belief in her power over
the sterner sex  and would open the doors of Place
to the bride ; and all would go merrily till the kind
elder brother made a peaceful and timely end, and
left Mark and Mary to reign in his stead.

This had been Molly's vision of the future when
the Squire's brother married her. She unfolded her
views to Mark one summer evening as they strolled
on the little sea-walk at Sidmouth, at which bewilderingly
lively watering-place they spent their brief
honeymoon. Mark's very different manner of looking
at things dashed her a little ; but she set down his
prognostications to stupidity and cowardice.

I don't think I'd have married you if I'd have
known you were such a poor timid creature,' she said.
It's all very well to keep things secret for a little

while, and watch your opportunity ; but you can't
suppose I'm going to be hid away in holes and corners
for ever.'

This was, perhaps, an allusion to certain arrangements
which Mark had been suggesting. He was
afraid of taking his young wife too near home, and
had planned a lodging in a back street in Plymouth,
where he might visit her by stealth.

Molly endured 'the back street in Plymouth and
the rarity of her husband's visits for a twelvemonth ;
but at the end of that time she was the mother of a
bouncing boy-baby, and had acquired complete ascendency
over the boy's father. She insisted upon his
finding her a home of her own  a home in which she
would have her own furniture and her own servant,
instead of being dependent on the scanty service and
the scantier furniture of a third-rate lodging. She
insisted, further, that the home should be within
easy reach of Mark's office, so that he might devote
his leisure to the cultivation of domestic affections,
and see more of the magnificent boy-baby, and future
inheritor of Place. Mark, after resisting as he always
resisted, yielded as he always yielded, and the cottage

on the St. Columb road happening, just at this time,
to stand empty, seemed to offer a golden opportunity
for establishing Mrs. Mark in a home of her own :
provided always that she would keep the promise she
made before her marriage, and reveal to no living
creature that she was Mark's wife, until he himself
should be prepared to admit the fact and stand by
what he had done. Molly had been ready enough to
make this promise when the chance of her marriage
depended on her readiness so to pledge herself.

The cottage was furnished with goods and chattels
chosen by Mary herself, and, for the first year or
so, the pleasure of possessing these chairs and tables,
fenders and fire-irons, with the labour of keeping
the same spotless and shining, satisfied the longings,
and even the ambition, of the so-called Mrs. Peters.
The vision of future glory at Place was always before
her. The cottage was but the purgatory which was
to precede that paradise ; but, for a time, the purgatorial
existence was not unendurable. Then came
the weariness of monotony : the chairs and tables,
fenders and fire-irons, were always exactly the same,
polish and scrub as she might ; and then there was

the galling sense that the very people who admired
her furniture and drank her tea secretly looked down
upon her, as a spurious kind of matron, who could
give only a garbled account of herself, and had never
been known to show her marriage-lines, even to a
bosom friend. And out of this weariness and sense
of shame there grew an ardent longing to be 'righted,'
to have all the praise and glory that was her due asa
respectable married woman, whose ' prudence' none
could question. Then, when she had borne this dull
slow life for nearly ten years, growing more bitter of
tongue and snappish of temper every year, came the
news of Vyvyan's marriage, to overthrow all her
hopes of future greatness. And there and then
those seven devils, which lie in wait to take possession
of empty houses whence all the virtues and the
graces have fled, came and made their abode with
Mark's wife, and the vilest thought that ever took
shape in a woman's mind was not too vile for her to
give it shelter.

It was a long way to Camelot  seven good miles
by moor and country road. Yonder, far away to the
left, twinkled the lights of Stockport, straggling up

the edge of the hill from the harbour in the hollow
to the topmost house in the village. Molly thought,
with a shiver, of the many cosy firesides in the long
steep street, of the contented mothers who were
sitting beside them  as she might never sit again 
with children at their knees. But she had found
little bliss in a cottage and her own fireside. It was
only now the thing was gone from her that it began
to seem sweet. Should she try back, make friends
with Mark, talk him out of this fancy of his, and
begin life again, content to be Mrs. Peters, and to
live under a cloud, till Fortune's wheel gave a new
turn in her favour ?

No : she could not go back. On the dark road she
travelled there was no turning back. She had failed,
and all was over and ended. She had staked all upon
this one desperate cast, feeling sure of success.

It was eight o'clock, and all the shops in Camelot
were shut, when Molly turned wearily into that uphill
lane where Aunt Jooly had her abode ; the merest
hovel of cob and thatch adjoining Farmer Somebody's
piastres.

The one lattice  in which there were more paper

and rags than glass  was closely shuttered ; but there
was a dim glimmer of light shining under the door,
so Molly lifted the latch and went in. The room was
kitchen, parlour, and bedchamber all in one; Aunt
Jooly reserving the upper story, which was far from
weather-tight, as a storehouse for apples, onions, and
fuel. A bed closely curtained with many-coloured
patchwork drapery occupied the warmest corner. An
ancient armchair filled nearly half the room, and
screened the sibyl from all the winds that blew. An
old bureau, in which she kept her simples, and which
the country people regarded with awe unutterable,
as the repository of mysterious powers, and a rickety
little round table comprised the rest of Aunt Jooly's
belongings.

A witch would not have been complete without
her familiar. Aunt Jooly had two in the orthodox
feline form. A twin pair of large black cats adorned
and guarded the hearth, and showed an invincible
jealousy of the tea-kettle, which they evidently considered
a rival in their mistress's affections, and an
impediment to their full enjoyment of the fire. These
cats had been christened Tom and Jerry, and were as

well known and as much respected in Camelot as the
serviceable Aunt Jooly herself.

The old woman sat over her fire, hidden from
view in the big armchair ; but the uplifted countenances
of Tom and Jerry, and the black teapot and cup
and saucer on the table, told Molly that the witch was
there. She walked straight to the back of the chair,
and looked down at the old nurse, who was nodding
and mumbling at the cats while she sipped her tea.

'Lord a-mercy!' cried the crone, when Molly
tapped her on the shoulder. ' Who's there ?'

She turned round and stared at the face looking
down upon her out of the shadows. Such a ghastly
face, so strange in its expression, that, for the moment,
she hardly recognised it.

Lord, 'tes you !' she cried. * I thowt you was up
in Lunnon.'

I have been in London ; and now I've come
home, and I want the key,' answered Molly, without
relaxing a muscle in that rigid face. She had drawn
her thick black veil closely round the front of her
bonnet, and tied it under her chin, so as to hide the
widow's cap.

Lord, but you d' look ill  that white and whist !
And all in black, too !' exclaimed Aunt Jooly, staring
at Molly, while she fumbled in a capacious pocket for
the key. ' There saint nowt wrong with the chiltern,
be there ?'

Molly shook her head impatiently.

There's your kay,' said the old woman, handing
it up over the back of the chair.  But can't ye come
round by the fire and set down a bit, and have a sup
o' tay ? 'Twill warm you may be, for you look half
froze.'

'I've had a cold walk.'

Why didn't you come in the coach ? 'Twas in
two hours ago.'

Good-night,' said Molly, going to the door.

'Well, you're uncommon short with a poor old
woman, Mrs. Payers. You'll not find a cobweb in
your house, I'll warrant ; and 'tes as dry as a bone.'

Thank you, Aunt Jooly. I shan't forget that
I'm beholden to you for that,' answered Molly.

She was gone before the old woman could say
another word ; but Aunt Jooly sat staring at the door
for some minutes, to the wonderment, and even uneasiness,

of Tom and Jerry, who interrogated her
dumbly, by sundry patting and scratching of their
foresaw on her ancient and bony knees.

She d' look as if she'd seen a ghost,' muttered
the hag.

MARK IS WARNED.

While Mark was cutting short Mrs. Morris's period
of service, George Leland walked up and down the
firelight drawing-room, waiting till he should hear that
the patient above-stairs was out of danger, and that
Barbara's mind was at ease. He walked slowly up
and down the fine old room, which looked its best by
this variable light  a light that flashed fitfully upon
the bosses and armorial bearings of the richly-carved
ceiling, and lent glow and colour to the faded tints
of drapery and walls.

He was left for a considerable time with no better
company than his own thoughts, and those were not
cheering. He had done his duty, but the duty done
left no sense of delight. There was none of the rapture,
the afterglow which lit his soul at the close of
a day's hard fighting  a hair-breadth escape with life
and limb where annihilation had seemed inevitable.
He had done his duty. Seeing his rival  the man

whom of all men he had most reason to envy and to
hate  in the fell grip of death, he had wrestled with
the grim destroyer, as Hercules wrestled for Alcestis,
and had come off victorious. And now, alone with
his own thoughts, in cold blood, the battle over, the
victory won, he was able to contemplate what he had
done, and to speculate upon what might have happened
if he had held his hand, stood aside out of the
fray, and left Barbara's husband to Fate and local
doctors.

He was during,' he said to himself, ' dying of
narcotic poison  so nearly gone that a quarter of
an hour's delay might have turned the scale. It
was not I who poisoned him. Suppose I had let
him go  left him to slip into the dark river  should
I have been less a murderer, I wonder  seeing what
I saw, and knowing what I know  than the secret
wretch who gave him the poison ?'

Conscience told him that his sin would have been
no less than murder.

Thank God I did not hesitate, even for a second,'
he said to himself. 'I had but one thought, one
desire, and that was to save him. Now that I have

VOL. III. K

won him back to life, when he is well again, and he
and I are on an equal footing, I may wish him dead ;
but an hour ago, seeing him helpless, at the last extremity,
my soul did not waver. Satan had no power
over me.

Who could have poisoned him, and for what
end ?'

This was a question George Leland could not
answer, knowing so little of the man's life or surrounding
circumstances; but he thought with a
shudder how, if Vyvyan Penrith had died by poison,
he being in the neighbourhood at the time, suspicion
might have pointed to Barbara as the poisoner 
might, nay, must inevitably have done so, since the
victim had himself accused her.

This would have been the horrible sequence to
Vyvyan's death. George Leland trembled when he
remembered how near that death had been. Better
a thousand times that he and Barbara should be
parted for ever than that her future days should
be darkened by such a scandal, made loathsome to
her by the world's contempt.

He thanked God for the chance that had brought

him to Yyvyan's bedside in time. That flagging
pulse, that slowly-labouring heart, whose every beat
had grown weaker as Leland listened, must hare
stopped before the coming of the Launceston doctor.
 yjan Penrith would have died in his lethargic
sleep, while his kindred stood round his bed, ignorant
and helpless.

'That black-eyed woman was in it,' thought
George Leland. ' I never saw a face that so plainly
indicated evil. And she had prevented them giving
him brandy, knowing no doubt that brandy was the
only thing to save him. Yes, she is the plotter, she
is the poisoner. God knows why.'

Flossie came fluttering in at this moment.

*No lamp, and the fire almost out, and you have
had no dinner!' she exclaimed breathlessly. ' What
a horribly rude, inhospitable set of people you must
think us ! And in Cornwall, too, a county famous
for its hospitality. Dinner was ready ages ago, but
there was no bell rung, on account of Vyvyan, and
neither ma, nor Miss Penrith, nor I was in the
humour to eat anything, so we stayed up-stairs, and
Gilmore brought us some tea. But I did suppose

that Dickson would have had the sense to look after
you. I feel perfectly wretched to think you have
been treated so badly.'

 Don't make yourself uncomfortable on my account,
Flossie. I don't wish to dine. How is jour
brother-in-law ?'

Better. The Launceston doctor says he will
come all right. It was a sharp attack, but the
Launceston doctor promises to pull him through it.
But it is you we have to thank the most,' added
Flossie ; ' but for you I believe he would have died.
Odd, isn't it ? And wasn't it lucky that I thought
of fetching you ?'

Most providential.'

*Yes, I generally think of the right thing. I
remembered how you said that if ever Barbara was
in trouble I was to come to you or let you know ;
and here she was in the most dreadful trouble ; and
though I had no idea what you could do to help us,
I felt that your presence would be a safeguard ; so
I bundled on my habit and came.'

You acted bravely, wisely, splendidly, Flossie.
And now, if the doctor says that Mr. Penrith is out

of danger, I may as well ride back to Stockport. I
can do no good here.'

Ride back alone by a strange road this dark
night ?' ejaculated Flossie.

It won't be my first dark ride, Flossie, nor my
longest. I have ridden fifty miles between sunset
and sunrise many a time, and have ridden many a
mile by night when I was so tired that I have slept
soundly in my saddle.'

And didn't you tumble off?' asked Flossie.

Not I ! When a man spends half his life on
horseback, the movement of his horse is no more
than the rocking of a baby's cradle. May I ring the
bell and order my horse, Flossie ?'

Not till you have dined. I will not let you
leave this house without refreshment.'

Won't you '? Well, then, you shall make me a
cup of tea, and then I shan't fall asleep as I ride
over the moor. Let us drink tea together, and
I'll try to fancy I am in the parlour at Camberwell.'


Do you remember the first evening ?' cried
Flossie, when she had rung the bell and given her

orders. ' I shall never forget how you attacked our
bread-and-butter.*

*I had not dined, you see. That was hardly fair
in a partial boarder, was it ?*

0, but you made noble amends. York hams
and innumerable baskets of strawberries, Dundee
marmalade and Scotch shortbread ! I wonder we
were not all made bilious by your generosity. Those
were happy days, weren't they ?'

Very happy,' he answered, with a sigh ; and
then relapsed into gloom.

Dickson appeared presently with the tea-tray
and urn, and Flossie occupied herself in making tea,
while George Leland walked slowly up and down the
room, almost unconscious of her presence.

In her infinite pity for him, she made his tea desperately
strong, and then half drowned it with cream.

Come,' she said, ' sit down by the fire and be
comfortable, as you used to be at Camberwell. And
let us talk cheerfully,' she continued, with an assumption
of gaiety, when the Major had drawn his
chair to the hearth and taken his teacup. ' Tell me
about the Mutiny.'

That is hardly a cheerful subject.'

Xo, I suppose it isn't ; but it's exciting, at any
rate. You were wounded at Lucknow, Bab told
me.'

Yes, Flossie, badly wounded ; as near death as
the most eager experimentalist need wish to be. It
was after the storming, when I had passed deathless
through the breach, shoulder to shoulder with one
of the finest soldiers in India, that I got struck
down by a Sepoy's bullet. I was hunting out a
party of ruffians who were hiding in the dark rooms
of the Begum's palace, when one of them fired at
me. It was not his luckiest shot, for the Highlanders
bayoneted every man of the party, while I
was being carried off for dead. I was in hospital
three dreary months after this. T\lien my faithful
troopers were told I was killed, not a man of them
believed it. That could not be, they said ; Sahib
Leland could not be killed : they had seen me so
often come unharmed through the hail of bullets,
and cut my way through a ring of swords without a
scratch. But there must come an end to every
man's career, must there not, Flossie ?'

'Pray don't talk as if yours were ended. You'll
go back to India, won't you, by and by ?'

If I live, Flossie ; if I live long enough.'

Flossie looked at him uneasily. The hollow
cheek, and glassy brightness of the sunken eye,
were not indicative of returning health. Major
Leland looked weaker and more worn than when
she had seen him a few days ago at Stockport.
Fired with excitement, face to face with danger, he
had seemed all force and power just now by Yyvyan's
bed ; but the occasion past, and the excitement
over, he looked as he had looked in Barbara's eyes
that stormy afternoon  -a man whose days were
numbered.

He would eat nothing, but enjoyed his cup of
tea, and told Flossie how often, after a weary ride
under the midnight stars, he had longed for that
cheering cup, before he lay down to rest in his
tent.

His horse had been ordered to be ready for him
at eight o'clock. It was now half-past seven.

You would like to see Barbara before you go,
would you not ?' asked Flossie.

No, I won't have her disturbed. She has made
up her mind to stay with her husband ; she is his
safest guardian. But there is some one in this
house I want to see  Mr. Penrith's brother. What
kind of a fellow is he ?'

Very good-natured,' answered Flossie.

Does that mean rather stupid ?'

*Well, I should hardly call him a wonder of
cleverness, but I believe he is a good man of
business. He is manager at the quarries, you
know.'

Indeed ! Then I suppose he has the average
amount of common-sense. I want to have a little
serious talk with him before I leave.'

I'll run and look for him,' said Flossie, ' and
ask him to come to you. And then I think I had
better go back to poor mother, who is in a dreadful
state of mind, and is being made all the worse by
that horrid Miss Penrith.'

That lady does not appear the essence of amiability.'


She's the sourest, most cantankerous creature !
Actually objects to me because I do nothing but

read novels, ride her brother's horses, and eat
thunder and lightning.'

Thunder and lightning?'

Bread-and-treacle and clotted cream,' explained
Flossie. ' It's delicious. As if one could do anything
better than get rid of time in such a lonely
place as this !'

*And how does Barbara dispose of her life?'
asked Leland.

Poor Barbara ! She never complains, but her
existence must be dreadfully dull when we are not
here. And how she can put up with Miss Penrith
is more than I can understand. Well, I'll go and
hunt for Mark. Good-bye.'

Good-bye, Flossie. Let me know when you
are going home, that I may go to you as soon as you
are ready for me.'

Do you really mean it ?'

Really and truly.'

I am so glad. We will make you so comfortable,
 as our guest, you know ; no partial boarding
this time.'

I fear I may be a troublesome guest.'

How SO ?'

Invalids are apt to give trouble, and I am still
on the sick-list.'

We won't mind that. It shall be our business
to cure you. There's a doctor mother had, in a Tilbury,
 I believe he's tremendously clever ; and I'm
sure he ought to be, for his bill was something
frightful.'

Good-bye, Flossie. Time is going, and I want
to see Mr. Mark Penrith.'

Flossie shook hands with him and ran off, with
a curious pain in her heart, despite her assumption
of cheerfulness.

Mark came into the drawing-room presently,
with a pale face and dejected aspect.

You want to see me, Flossie tells me,' he said.
'Yes; I want to say a few words about your

brother's illness before I go,' answered Major Leland,
observant of Mark's pale and anxious countenance.


*I shall be glad to hear anything you can say.'
'You know that Mr. Penrith believes himself
to have been poisoned.'

Yes.'

I have reason to know that his suspicion is well
founded. He has all the symptoms of poison. Now
I want to put you on your guard. Medical men are
either very slow to find out foul play, or very much
disinclined to communicate their suspicions. They
leave the coroner to make the discovery when the
patient is dead. It's the safer way, for them, and
saves trouble.'

Vyvyan is not going to die.'

Not from this dose. I want to warn you
against a servant in this house. God knows what
reason she can have for plotting his death, but I
believe that widow woman, your sister's maid, is the
poisoner.'

You need have no further fear of her. She has
left this house, never to enter it again.'

What, then you too had the same suspicion ?
Mind, I had nothing to go upon but her face. That
told the whole story.'

I had some previous knowledge of her character.
Acting upon that, I turned her out of doors.'

You did wisely, and I believe your brother is

safe. What in Heaven's name could have been the
woman's motive ?'

We needn't go into that,' answered Mark
moodily. ' She will never come into this house
again.'

It is a blessed deliverance. And now let me
recommend you to keep a close watch, and to tell
your own doctor everything you know about the
attempt that has been made on your brother's life.'

*I shall tell him all that need be told.'

Mark went out to the porch vith the Major and
saw him mount, and then the two men shook hands
and parted, George Leland riding slowly through the
mists of a November night.

IT CASTS A CLOUD UPON THE WHOLE HOUSEHOLD.'

A LETTER was brought to Mark early next morning
as he sat beside his brother's bed, addressed in a
writing which he knew too well. A boy had brought
it from Camelot, but had not waited for an answer.

'If you want to see me again,' wrote Molly,
'come to the cottage tomorrow. There are some
things that must be settled between us before we
part. If you refuse to come it will cause trouble ;
and as this is the last favour I shall ever ask you, it
isn't much for you to grant. You'll find the key of
the back door behind the water-butt, in the old
place where I used to hide it when I went marketing
of an evening.'

Mark turned the letter over and over in his
hands as he sat beside the curtained bed, where
his brother lay sleeping a quiet and natural sleep.

Yes, he must comply with this request, hateful
as it would be to him to look upon the woman's

face again, loathsome as the very thought of her had
become. He must see her once more, and arrange
with her how her future life was to be spent, and
where. She must not be left without the means of
living, or she would commit more crimes, and make
the name of Penrith infamous  that honoured name
which he had been weak enoufjh to ixe her. He
must provide her with an income, and must make
that income contingent upon her living ever so faraway
from Cornwall.  Let her go and hide herself
in the great wilderness of London, where no one
would know anything about her.

Yes, he must pension her out of his salary, and
he must keep the three boys at school ; pay for their
schooling, and clothe them, and visit them now and
then, and do what he could to compensate them for
the loss of their mother.

They have her blood in their veins,' he thought
with a shudder. * What if it should show itself by
and by in evil deeds ? Yet they seem honest open-hearted
little fellows now, and they take after my
family in their looks ; they are every inch Penruths.
God grant the bad strain may never show itself!' 

He determined to ride over to Camelot in the
afternoon, when he had seen Mr. Didcott, and heard
his opinion of his patient. Didcott and the Launceston
doctor had been closeted together for half an
hour last night, and had agreed as to the cause of
Vyvyan's illness. Didcott had remained with his
patient all night, administering stimulants, and
guarding against the possibility of foul play in any
quarter. That Vyvyan had been poisoned he was
now very sure, but whom to suspect he knew not.
Sometimes his thought pointed to Mark, who had so
much to gain by his brother's death ; and then the
needle-point of suspicion veered and turned to the
wife, whose loveless marriage-bonds had been so
nearly broken.

In any case Mr. Didcott felt that it was his
bounden duty to watch the patient. Before he drove
away from Place that morning in the chill November
daybreak, he took Dickson into his confidence.

Somebody has been trying to poison your master,'
he said.  God alone knows who it is. I want you
to keep watch in Mr. Penrith's room while I am
away. Mrs. Penrith is nursing him ; that's all very

well, but she is young and inexperienced, and wants
your help. Don't leave her for so much as half a
minute.'

*Xo, sir,' answered the man, with a troubled
look. ' What you tell me is very dreadful, sir. It
casts a cloud upon the whole household.'

'No doubt it does, Dickson. It will be somebody's
business to find out where that cloud is
blackest.'

It's a curious thing,' murmured the butler. ' I
suppose you know all about it. Miss Penrith's
maid, sir, a highly respectable widow-person  always
seemed rather above her situation, didn't mix and
mingle with us, sir, in the 'housekeeper's room, as
she might have been expected to do  '

Yes, yes, yes, yes  go on, can't you ?' cried
Didcott impatiently.

She goes and disappears last evening, sir. No
one knows where or wherefore. She had given notice
to quit, I allow, but her time wasn't up for another
week; and last night she is found to be missing.
When ten o'clock struck there was no one to take
down Miss Penrith's hair or attend to her little

VOL. in. L

wants. Mrs. Morris's drawers and boxes as usual,
but no Mrs. Morris. If the witches had carried her
off upon their broomsticks, she could hardly have
made a cleaner bolt of it.' -

Strange,' muttered the Camelot surgeon ; ' I
never quite liked the manner of that woman. I
never could get an honest look at her face. She
was always hiding in corners, and keeping herself in
shadow.'

*If it wasn't unbecoming a Christian and a
Primitive Methodist, I should say that I couldn't
abide her,' said the butler.

Well, everything will come out in time, I suppose.
Take care of your master ; that is what you
have to do. He'll be about again in a day or two
if all goes well, and then he'll be able to take care
of himself.'

Mr. Didcott took his seat in Yyvyan's dog-cart,
and rattled away in the damp chilly air, eager to get
back to Camelot and settle for his parish patients.

Vyvyan was rallying gradually. Digitalis has
the quality, rare among vegetable poisons, of cumulative
power, and a long course of digitalis had

brought the strong man very low. Mind and body
had alike suffered ; and now, as he lay on his bed,
feeble, almost helpless, his soul was burdened by
the thought that life, won back for him, could give
him nothing worth having.

He still believed, despite Barbara's gentle presence,
despite her seeming grief, that it was a wicked
wife's hand which had mixed the poison in his cup ;
that it was a false woman's desire to go back to an
old lover which had been the motive for this attempt
at murder. He watched her with dull heavy eyes as
she sat near his bed, or moved softly to and fro to
perform some service for him ; watched her in silence
and gloom, believing her a monster of iniquity under
the outward form of innocence and beauty.

He had hardly spoken since his recovery from
the stupor that had lasted so long. Barbara knew
not whether this dumbness was a sign of only half-recovered
consciousness, or whether it indicated an
angry and pardoning soul. She went on quietly
doing her duty, and made no moan. Sometimes her
thoughts wandered from that dull silent room, and
followed the guest who had been there yesterday 

that dark haggard face, so like and yet so unlike the
face whose tender smile had lighted her youth ; that
gaunt wasted figure, the clothes hanging loosely upon
shrunken limbs. 0, how changed he was ! and yet
how familiar and dear his presence had been ! and
what comfort and security she had felt in the sound
of the resolute voice, the fire of the commanding eye !
He had saved her in her hour of need, and now
he had gone out of her life for ever. It was not
well that they two should meet.

She sat by her husband's bed meekly, patiently,
even though there was no look of gratitude or affection
in the eyes which followed her every movement
when the patient lay awake, watchful in bis silence.
It was a relief when he fell into a peaceful slumber ;
and Mark, with the old-fashioned idea that there
was something soothing in darkness, drew the heavy
damask curtain between the sleeper and winter's
brief sunshine.

Dickson had come to help his mistress in her
attendance on the invalid. He sat at a respectful
distance by the fire, and was ready when there was
nourishment or medicine to be given.

Mark stole softly to the window when he had
thrust his wife's unwelcome letter in his pocket, and
stood there looking at the dark-brown hills rising far
off above the level line of the moor.

Mrs. Trevornock and Flossie were taking their
rest, after having sat up all night, too anxious to
retire till they were told that Mr. Penrith was out
of danger. Miss Penrith, reassured as to her
brother's condition by the two doctors, had withdrawn
to her own room, reluctant to the last, and
insisting that her place was by Vyvyan's side. What
were the claims of a frivolous young wife, introduced
into the family, as it were, yesterday, when weighed
against those of a sister who had been born and
reared under the same roof ?

I begin to think there is no truth in the saying
that blood is thicker than water,' said Priscilla indignantly.


BUSINESS FOR AUNT Jolly.

Mr. Didcott and Mr. Fordyce, the surgeon from
Launceston, met at three o'clock in the afternoon,
and pronounced the patient decidedly better; and
there and then did the stranger resign all charge
of Mr. Penrith to his regular attendant, and
accept with due courtesy the handsome fee which
Mrs. Penrith slipped into his hand.

I cannot claim the merit of having saved his
life,' said Mr. Fordyce. * Your friend. Major
Selim, was beforehand with me. But for his strong
measures, Mr. Penrith would have sunk before I
arrived.'

Thank God he knew how to act !'

*Yes, it is a blessing to have some one with
experience and common-sense at band in such an
emergency. A very superior man, evidently. But,
tell me, now, Mrs. Penrith,' pursued the doctor, ina
confidential voice which neither Mark nor the

butler could hear, * have you any idea how your
husband happened to take this poison ?'

 I have no idea ; I am utterly in the dark.
He has no enemy that I know of; he has done
nothing to provoke anybody's enmity ; and yet,
in his own house, surrounded by old servants, someone
tries to murder him. It is most horrible ! It
will make life a burden to us.'

Surrounded by old servants, you say, Mrs. Pen-ruth
? Then there is no one among the servants
whom you could suspect ?'

Why should a servant try to kill him ? For
what motive ? There has been only one stranger in
the household since my marriage, and that is Miss
Penrith's maid.'

She is a respectable person, I suppose?'

Yes, she was highly recommended. You sav*
her yesterday. A widow.'

'Yes, I remember,' said Mr. Fordyce, who" was
not a physiognomist; ' a very superior person.'

Miss Penrith has a high opinion of her. She
used to sit up with my husband when he was ill
with low fever a little time ago.'

0,' said the surgeon, looking thoughtful, ' she
used to sit up with him ! Indeed !' And then he
took his leave, pondering as he departed whether
this superior female could be the person who had
dosed Mr. Penrith.

Bill what motive ?' argued Mr. Fordyce.
What motive could there be, unless she were only
the tool of somebody else ?'

Didcott and Mark were in the adjoining room
discussing the same subject, or rather Didcott
asking questions, and Mark reluctantly answering.

The thing must be sifted,' said Didcott. ' It
is due to all of us, especially to the members of the
family, that a strict investigation should be made.
The thing has been going on for a long time, you
see ; it is a deep-laid plot. I found these symptoms
in your brother nearly three months ago, and took
them for indications of heart-disease, as any other
medical man would have done who knew what I
knew of the family antecedents. The business
must be investigated, Mark, or your brother's life
will not be safe in his own house. I don't want
to make myself troublesome, or to make the matter

public, if it can be helped. But your brother's life
must be protected. If it hadn't been for Major
What's-his-name's promptitude, the Squire would bea
dead man to-day.'

Yes, yes : he shall be protected,' Mark answered,
nervously evading the surgeon's eye.

Do you suspect anybody in the house !'

Well, yes ; I had my suspicions last night,
considering the various circumstances of the case.
The person I suspect is now out of the house.'

I understand. It was that shifty-eyed widow,
your sister's maid. I never liked her. Then it
was you who sent her away '?'

Yes ; but you needn't say anything about it to
my sister.'

But what motive could she have had ?'

Mark tapped his forehead significantly.

You think she was queer in her head, eh ? It
was a curious form for madness to take, though.
Never knew a case of the kind. Homicidal mania
generally shows itself in violence ; but a slow, cautious,
sustained attempt at poisoning is hardly
compatible with insanity. Your lunatic is never

capable of consecutive action. He forgets to-day
what he did yesterday.'

I can't account for the thing in any other way,'
said Mark moodily.

*I can't account for it at all retorted Didcott ;
but it must be accounted for. Such an attempt
mustn't pass unquestioned.'

He went back to his gig, which had brought him
over from Camelot, and drove home, sorely troubled
in mind. He began to fear that his suspicions of
yesterday were but too correct, and that his old friend
Mark must be concerned in this diabolical attempt ;
in which case the mysterious widow was doubtless
Mark's accomplice, and had been made the scapegoat.
Who would profit so largely as Mark by
Vyvyan's death? The surgeon remembered how
they had talked together of the Squire's fatal malady,
and how Mark's eye had brightened as he spoke of
the horses and hounds he would keep when he became
master at Place.

Mark waited till Mr. Didcott had been on his
road for half an hour, and then went out to the
stable to get the brown cob saddled, and on that

unamiable brute started at a thundering trot for
Camelot. It was dusk before he rode along the
quiet road where stood the. stone cottage in which
he had tasted the joys and cares of surreptitious
domesticity.

There was no cheerful glow of fire or lighted
lattice to guide him to the spot ; but he knew every
inch of the ground, even in this misty duskiness
of winter evening, and he led the cob round to the
back of the premises, and tied him to the post of a
low wooden gate which opened from a ploughed field
into the little kitchen garden behind the house.
The back windows, like the front, were all dark.

Mark tried the back-door, and found it locked.

She's out, evidently. Why did she ask me to
come if she was going to be gadding about ?' Mark
interrogated inwardly, as he felt for the key in its
hiding-place behind the water-butt.

His heart sank within him with a sharp and
bitter pang as he remembered many a home-coming
in the past, when his wife and her small servant had
gone on some household errand, and he had let
himself in quietly, and had sat by the firelight hearth

waiting patiently for Molly's return ; pleased if she
came home bright and good-tempered, and seemed
glad to see him ; forbearing even when she was
snappish and reproachful.

She had been his wife, the woman of his choice,
perfectly beautiful in his sight, the mother of his
bonny boys ; and he could not contemplate her
wickedness without the keenest anguish.

He went to this meeting of to-night with reluctance
and fear. He knew his wife's power over
him, how she had always been able to argue him
into a surrender of his own opinion, and a tame
submission to her will. He had been able to stand
against her last night, for horror and wrath had
made him iron. But should he be able to stand
as firm to-night ? Might not her tears or her passionate
assertion of innocence beat down and overrule
his own conviction of her guilt ? Could he,
who but once in his life had mastered her, and that
by the force of supreme indignation, master her
again in his cooler temper of to-night ?

Let me think how she tried to kill my brother,
how she would have made me an unconscious accomplice

in his murder,' he said to himself, as he opened
the door.

Within, all was dark and di-earl. It seemed
strange that there should be no gleam of firelight on
this winter night. He went into the kitchen, which
smelt of damp, and groped about for candle and
matches. Having found these and lighted his
candle, he went into the parlour and looked about
him. All was empty, dull, and cheerless ; the neat
little room, once so snug and bright upon winter
evenings, had the aspect of a place which has been
long uninhabited. Mark's heart sank as he looked
at the hearth where he had so often romped with his
boys, tossing and tumbling them over and over like
a litter of puppies, in the rosy firelight. He had not
been happy beside that fire, for discontent and discord
had been the sauce to his meat, and the bitter
in his cup, from almost the beginning of things ;
but there were some sweet memories, nevertheless 
childish kisses, childish laughter, chubby arms entwined
about his neck.

He sat beside the cheerless hearth and waited,
wrapped in gloomiest thought. The minutes were

intolerably long. He expected momently to hear
the click of Molly's key in the front-door, and he
started at every crack of the furniture, at every
creak of the leafless branches outside the window.
He waited for half an hour, and then began to get
uneasy, and to think that his wicked wife had played
him a trick. He was very uncomfortable about his
horse, which he had left shelterless in the cold.

*I had better have put him up at the King's
Arms,' he thought ; ' but I didn't want any one to
know I was here.'

Too impatient to sit still any longer in that deserted
room, Mark took up the candle and went on a
voyage of discovery, to see if by chance a letter had
been left for him somewhere to inform him that Mrs.
Peters had changed her mind, and left Camelot without
waiting to see him.

He looked into the other parlour, but there was
no letter. He went up the narrow staircase to the
principal bedroom, which it had been Molly's delight
to keep a picture of neatness.

One glance at the white curtained bed showed
him a figure lying there, and he called  forgetting

for the moment all that had happened   Molly !' in
the old familiar tone. A second glance froze the
hood in his veins, and he went slowly up to the hed,
and shudderingly touched the icy hand, and bent
down to look at the awful face.

It was his wife, dressed in the black gov she
wore when she left Place  dead. A mug, with a
little brownish liquid at the bottom of it, stood on a
table near at hand. This, Mark fancied, had held
the sleeping draught which lulled her to that last
long sleep.

What should he do ? He sank into a chair, helpless,
paralysed with horror. Slowly his power to
think and act came back to him.

I must do something ; I must tell somebody,'
he thought. ' I can't sit here alone all night  looking
at her.'

Then, wiping the cold sweat from his forehead,
he rose and moved towards the door, leaving the
candle where he had put it down. He would not
leave his dead wife alone in the dark.

I'll fetch Didcott,' he said to himself, hurrying
out to his horse. ' He has always been my friend.

I must tell him everything. And the nurse, old
Aunt Jooly, she can be trusted ; those two between
them can do all that's wanted.'

He mounted the cob and rode down the hill to
the High street, where Didcott's lighted surgery
window gave him a feeling of comfort. The surgeon
was drinking tea, and eating squab-pie, after his
drive from Place, and was telling Mrs. Didcott the
state of affairs in the Penrith mansion. He came
out at Mark's summons, profoundly astonished.

'Your brother no worse, I hope,' he cried.
There's been no relapse, eh ?'

No ; I came away half an hour after you. I
want you, badly, up the road, yonder.'

At the cottage ?' asked Didcott. ' Why, there's
nobody living there, is there ?'

Don't I say you are wanted ? Come this instant
! I'm going to fetch Aunt Jooly ; but I shall
be there before you.'

Well, upon my soul, now that's rather hard
upon a poor beggar,' grumbled the surgeon, who had
been making up medicines in his senna-scented surgery
for the last hour, and had only just settled to

his comfortable meat-tea. *Aunt Joolj, too? It
must be another baby. They might have given me
notice.'

Shall I put the pie in the oven '?' asked Mrs.
Didcott.

Not a bit of use. Goodness knows how long I
may be away.'

Mark hurried on to Aunt Jooly's hovel, and, finding
the witch at home, bade her come to the cottage
instantly. She too speculated upon a baby, and
made a bundle of her night-gear and sundry other
necessaries before she started, and looked in at a
neighbour's to confide Tom and Jerry to friendly
care, so that those familiar spirits should be nourished
and provided for in the event of her prolonged
absence.

Didcott found Mark waiting for him at the .


What is it ?' he asked. ' Anything bad ?'

Very bad,' answered Mark : ' she's dead, and I
believe she has poisoned herself.'

My God !'

Didcott, I had better tell you all the truth, at

VOL. III. M

once,' said Mark, grasping him by the arm, as they
stood in the dark passage together. ' She was my
wife. I kept our marriage a secret because I wsk
afraid of offending my brother.'

I suspected as much all along,' answered Didcott.

That isn't all, though. Six months ago she
took it into her head  when my sister wanted a maid
to go to Place, under a false name, with a false
character. I opposed the plan, tooth and nail ; but
she would have her own way. It seemed a foolish
fancy ; but there was no particular harm in it, as I
thought, and I gave way.'

Then she was the woman they called Morris !'
'Yes.'

*Now I understand why she always fought so
shy of me. I could never get a look at her face.
And now she has poisoned herself?'

I'm afraid so.'

After trying to poison your brother. It's a bad
business, Mark. First and last, I don't think I ever
heard of anything worse. How do I know you were
not in it ?'

You know me,' said Mark, with a touch of manly

feeling ; * that ought to be answer enough to your
question.'

Well, old fellow, I believe you replied the surgeon.
' But I have been very uneasy in my mind, I
can tell you, since last night. I've always taken you
for a good-natured fellow, who would go out of his
way rather than tread upon a worm ; and to think that
you had a hand in poisoning your brother  it was a
fearful thought ! Well, you've got yourself into a
confounded mess, and I must see you through it.
There'll have fo be an inquest, I'm afraid.'

Can't that be avoided somehow ?'

I think not. It will be best to do things in a
regular way, and bear the brunt of it. Very little
need come out, beyond the circumstances of her
death. I think it will be wise for you to come
forward and state that she was your wife. Everybody
in Camelot knows she was associated with you ;
there's no hiding that ; and it will be safest to tell
the truth. If the fact of the marriage were to come
out afterwards, it would be awkward for you.'

I'll do what you like. But it will ruin me with
my brother. I shall have lost everything.'

Who knows ? He may not be so hard upon
you as you think.'

*He has been softer-hearted and kinder to me
since his illness. Well, I must brave it out,' said
Mark.

Didcott went upstairs to the bedroom. Mark
waited at the open door for Aunt Jooly, who presently
arrived, breathless, and hugging her bundle.
Mark briefly told her that it was for the dead, and
not for the newly-born, her services were needed, and
bade her go up-stairs. She went, groaning and
bemoaning at every step.

The handsomest woman in Camelot,' she sighed,
and as good a friend to me as I ever had. I saw it
in her face last night. She was that white and
whisht !'

DEARER THAN MONEY.

The inquest was held next day at the King's Arms ;
and the coroner and twelve jurymen  most of whom
had known Mark's wife years ago, when she was the
smartest and briskest of barmaid, and when sharp
retorts and impertinent sallies fell from her cherry
lips as readily as the pearls and diamonds shed by
the fortunate damsel in the fairy tale  went in
solemn conclave to look upon her dead face in the
darkened cottage-chamber.

Mark told his story briefly : how the deceased
woman was his wife, and he had kept his marriage
concealed on account of his brother; how she had
been away for some time, and had returned without
notice, and had sent him a note which brought him
to the cottage, where he had found her dead.

At the coroner's request Mark showed his wife's
last letter, which told nothing more than he had
said.

You have quarrelled, I conclude from this,' said
the coroner, when he had read the letter aloud to the
jury.

'Yes, we had quarrelled.'

Seriously ?'

'Yes.'

And you contemplated parting ?'

Yes.'

Mr. Didcott stated that the deceased had been
dead for some hours when Mark summoned him to
her. He would say that she had been dead ten
hours. The cause of death was no doubt an overdose
of an infusion of foxglove, the dregs of which
had been found in a mug close by the bed. He had
made a microscopic examination of these dregs, and
had discovered seeds, and traces of leaves in the
liquid. He had been shown a pipkin, which had
been found on the kitchen hearth, containing the
pulpy remains of leaves and flowers from which the
infusion had evidently been made. This infusion
might have been taken ignorantly as a sleeping
draught by a person unacquainted with its power.
This opinion had an effect on the jury, who, taking

into consideration that the Penruths were one of the
best families in North Cornwall, and that a verdict
oifelo de se would be an uncomfortable blot upon the
family history, were unanimously of opinion that the
said Mary Penrith had died accidentally from the
effect of an overdose of sleeping stuff; taking her
departure out of this life as innocently as a babe
which is launched into eternity by an injudicious
dose of comforting syrup.

Mark breathed more freely when it was all over,
and his old friends were standing round him in the
inn-parlour, murmuring consolatory speeches, and
shaking hands with him in a kindly and protecting
way.

And now I must go and make a clean breast of
it to my brother,' he said, cutting short all friendly
manifestations, ' before he gets well enough to read
an account of to-day's business in the newspaper.'

He lingered only to arrange with Didcott about
the funeral. The family surgeon was to see to
everything. It was to be a quiet respectable
funeral, in the little churchyard yonder among
the fields. Would Mark follow ? Yes ; it would

be best, perhaps, to silence scandal. He and
Didcott would go together in a mourning-coach :
that was all.

Mark rode slowly homeward, pondering on the
difficulties that still had to be faced. Yet though
those difficulties weighed heavily upon him, there
was a sense of relief which in his mind seemed to
lighten all his troubles. For ten years his wife had
been his one abiding vexation. She had embittered
every day of his life, and during the last forty-eight
hours her existence had been a horror to him. She
was gone. He looked back at his life with her
shudderingly, as a man might who had lived unawares
cheek-by-jowl with a cobra.

Mark had spent the previous night at Camelot,
but Didcott had been to Place early in the morning,
and had brought back a good account of Vyvyan's
progress. He was going on slowly towards recovery,
but he was wonderfully silent and loves-spirited.

*You can't conceive how this business has
shaken him,' said Didcott ; ' he looks ten years
older since it began. It was touch and go that
night, I can tell you.'

Mark put up his horse, and then went straight
to his brother's room. Vyvyan was sitting in the
big armchair by the fire, watching tte burning logs,
with dull hopeless eyes. He had always been gaunt
and bony, but he looked now a mere shadow of the
once vigorous Squire. Barbara sat on the opposite
side of the hearth, with a dainty little table before
her, and some delicate fancy work in her hands.
She too was pale and sad, and it seemed as if all
the brightness of her youth had departed for ever.

Vyvyan acknowledged his brother's entrance with
a nod, but did not even look up.

Well, old fellow,' said Mark, with an attempt at
cheerfulness, ' ever so much better, I hear. Worlds
better, isn't he, Barbara '?'

Yes, he is much better, Mr. Didcott says. He
will soon be well, and able to go for a drive on the
moor. Am I to di-ive you in the pony-carriage,
Vyvyan, or will you go in the landau ?' asked Barbara,
looking up from her work with tender deprecating
eyes, as of one who sued for pardon, yet
hardly knew how she had offended.

It doesn't much matter which,' answered Vyvyan.

I shall be in the way in either vehicle, I daresay.'


The gentle eyes looked up at him again, and
seemed to ask, ' How have I deserved this ?' But
Barbara's lips made no answer.

'Where have you been, and what is the matter
with you?' asked Vyvyan, looking at his brother,
who had come to the front of the hearth, and was
standing there with the light full on his face. ' You
look as if there were something wrong.'

There has been something very wrong. I have
been in great trouble. I should like to tell you all
about it, Vyvyan, even though it may make you
angry  set you against me for ever, perhaps.'

Barbara had risen instinctively, and was gathering
up her work.

'I had better leave you together,' she said.

Yes, dear ; I shall be glad if you will leave us
alone for a little while,' answered Mark. ' Is there
anything Yyvyan ought to take during the next half
hour  wine  medicine ?'

No, there is nothing. I shall be in the .
Call me when you have done talking.'

And SO she left them, looking back anxiously at
Vyvyan's moody face as she crossed the threshold,
fearful lest there should be some angry discussion
between the brothers ; for although not a Christian
of Miss Penrith's lofty type, she was by nature a
peacemaker.

Mark seated himself in Barbara's chair. Vyvyan
had relapsed into moody silence, and seemed hardly
conscious of his brother's presence.

You feel better, don't you, Vyvyan ?' asked
Mark presently.

Yes, I suppose I am better. There has been
no return of those horrible sensations.'

Are you not glad to know that the idea of heart-disease
was a false alarm ?'

Vyvyan looked up suddenly, the dull eyes kindling,
the stern lips quivering with pain and anger.

Glad to know that I have been poisoned in my
own house ? Glad to know that secret murder has
been sitting at my hearth  smiling in my face ?
Glad to know that I have been meshed in a web of
treachery and fair-faced wickedness ? Glad  Great
God ! Do not talk to me, Mark. Leave me to

fight my battle alone  to work out my life in my
own way.'

Vyvyan, you have some horrible suspicion !
You are wrong, utterly wrong ! Vyvyan, brother,
forgive me, if you can ! It was I that brought your
enemy into the house, not knowing her wickedness.
I know who it was that tried to poison you. I know
all about it. Didcott knows it too. He can bear me
out. It was my wife.'

Your wife ! What wife ?'

Mark told him the whole story  the story of his
weak' yielding to temptation fourteen years ago, and
of all the evil that had come of that folly and his
concealment of it. Vyvyan listened with fast-beating
heart, with the glow of new-born gladness kindling
on his hollow cheek.

What was it to him that his life had been
attempted, that a secret foe had been in his household,
if that secret enemy was not the wife of his
bosom, the idol of his later life ? His soul thrilled
within him as he heard Mark's confession. Forgive
his brother's folly, forgive the weakness of mind and
purpose which had so nearly brought him to the

grave ! Yes, he could forgive anything now that he
knew his young wife was innocent, pure, and perfect
as he had always thought her till that vile letter was
put into his hands.

He covered his face and wept aloud  tears of
mingled remorse and joy.

I thought it was my wife who wanted to shorten
my days,' he said. ' That thought made the coming
back to life more bitter than death itself. God forgive
me ! Yes, I thought it was Barbara's work !'

Vyvyan, how could you ? God gave you an

angel for a wife, and yet you could not trust her !'

The brothers clasped hands.

I have been an arrant fool,' said Mark. 'Can

you forgive me  a fool, and not always an honest

one ? You may as well know all the truth. I had

been robbing you for the last three years when

Maulford came to make out that balance-sheet. I

had been unlucky on the turf, and had speculated

in mining shares, in the hope of getting back what I

had lost, and had muddled away thousands of your

money. If Maulford hadn't doctored the accounts,

you must have known all about it. I've been an

honest man since then, upon my soul, I have ! I

pulled up short, and haven't wronged you of a sixpence
 '

Curse your sixpences !' cried Vyvyan, rising
feebly out of his big chair. ' There is something
in this life dearer than money.'

He went to the dressing-room door and called
Barbara !'

He opened his arms as she came towards him,
and took her to his breast.

'My dearest love, I have wronged you,' he murmured,
with unspeakable tenderness. * I know all
now.'

She answered not a word ; and looking down at
her blanching face, her husband saw that she had
fainted in his arms. Half an hour afterwards he
knew a secret that promised the fulfilment of his
fondest wish, a hope that had almost left him. He
was not to die childless ; he was not to be the last
of the good old line. Before the earliest leaflets of
spring were unfolded he might be a father.

Clearing THE ATMOSPHERE.

From that day forward there was a new tenderness in
Vyvyan's manner to his wife. It seemed as if he
could not be kind enough, could not be considerate
enough, to make up for the great wrong his thoughts
had done her. The man's whole nature seemed tO
be changed by the ordeal through which he had
passed. It was as if he had begun a new life. He
was kinder even to Mark than of old, despite that
confession which showed how very low his brother
had sunk in folly and sin.

He called Mark into his study one day, and told
him of the hope that shone before him in the immediate
future, like a planet which beams so near the
edge of earth's horizon that it seems to belong to us
more than all the other stars.

 With God's grace, there will be an heir or an
heiress to this estate before next year is three months
old, Mark,' said Vyvyan ; * so you see I have been

obliged to alter my will. I had given up all hope
of children when I put you in for the land, and I
thought my days were numbered. It's only fair I
should tell you of the change.'

'You are very good,' said Mark, stifling a sigh.
Of course I knew that will was made under exceptional
circumstances. I never expected it to stand 
after  after we had found out that Didcott was wrong
about your heart. Thank God that you have a good
old age before you. I am more than content, so long
as you leave me in my old berth at the quarries.
And it's very good of you not to have pitched me out
neck and crop, Vyvyan, after what I told you the
other day.'

No, Mark, I am not going to turn you out. The
quarries will be yours when I am gone. I have put
you in for those instead of the land. Priscilla has
plenty. Take care of the business, and don't get into
any more muddles with your accounts. You may
feel all the more interest in nursing the property
now that you know it will be your own by and by.'

Vyvyan, you are a good fellow ! ' Mark exclaimed
rapturously. ' An out-and-out brick ! And I am

glad there is going to be au heir. Yes, heartily,
honestly glad. And if you would only start a dozen
couple of harriers next season, I don't think I should
have anything left to wish for.'

Wouldn't you, Mark ? Well, 111 think about
the harriers. But there are those boys of yours 
my nephews,' said Vyvyan, making a wi-y face ; for
he could not forget their detestable maternal parentage
just yet awhile. '' I  I hope they're [not like
their mother.'

*Not a bit. They are every inch Penruths.'

I'm glad of that. And they are at school at St.
Columb, you say ? Poor little creatures ! Where
will they spend their Christmas holidays ?'

At school, I suppose.'

That seems hard, with their uncle's big half-empty
house so near. Bring them over for a week
or so, and let me see what they are made of.'

Vyvyan, that is kind of you ! I am sure you
will like them. They are such jolly little beggars,
and as strong as fox-hound puppies.'

Let them come, they will do me no harm.'
Christmas was close at hand, and Mrs. Trevor-vol.

III. N

nock and Flossie had been invited to remain at
Place for that social season. They were to return to
Camberwell in the first week of the new year, when
Flossie was to dance at a grand ball at one of the
stuccoed palaces on Denmark Hill. Early in the
new year, too. Major Leland was to take up his abode
with them ; and, exquisitely as the house in South-lane
was always kept, there would be much sweeping
and garnishing necessary, in Mrs. Trevornock's
opinion, before things could be meet for his reception.
She had already discussed with Flossie the
desirability of a mahogany wardrobe with a plate-glass
door, in place of the old-fashioned chest of drawers
which now adorned the  large airy bedroom' that had
been offered to the competition of partial boarders
five years ago. She had serious thoughts, too, of a
new carpet, and something more fashionable in wash-stands
than the existing arrangement in japanned
deal.

The mother was very happy in the new hopefulness
which brightened domestic life at Place.
Barbara was glad, with a subdued gladness, always
tempered with sorrow ; for it was ever in her mind

that before her there lay a great grief, as well as a
strange untasted joy. There was to be loss as well
as gain. The resolute eyes that had shone upon her
in her darkest night of trouble, the strong hand that
had helped her, were never to be near her again. It
was in vain that Mrs. Trevornock and Flossie talked
hopefully of the balmy spring days in which Major
Leland was to regain health and strength, and be
nursed and pampered out of all his ailments. Barbara
had never forgotten her first impression when
she looked into his face in the gray autumn light and
saw the stamp of death there.

He had left Stockport, and was staying in Somers
with his sisters. A brief note to Mrs. Trevor-neck
had announced his change of address.

About a week before Christmas, Miss Penrith
called her brother aside one morning, after breakfast,
and announced that she had accepted an invitation to
spend the sacred and mildly festive season at Plymouth.


I ought to have gone much earlier,' she said,
for there has been a course of Advent sermons that
I should have rejoiced to hear ; but I did not care to

leave till you were out of danger, much as I value the
opportunities which Plymouth affords.'

That was very kind of you,' answered Vyvyan
civilly. ' But as there are such  opportunities, I
think you said  in Plymouth, don't you think it
would he better if you were to live there altogether,
with an occasional friendly visit here, of course, to
maintain family feeling ?'

Yy van, am I to understand that you wish to get
rid of me ?'

I don't want to put it offensively. But the fact
is, you and Barbara have never cottoned to each other.
You don't seem to like her. I don't know why, or
ask why. The fact speaks for itself. And then you
have such a rooted objection to her sister, who is a
good-natured, inoffensive little thing.'

Inoffensive !' screamed Priscilla. ' Her flippancy
would not be abashed by an archbishop. I see,
Yyvyan,  I understand what has taken place. I have
been undermined.'

My dear Priscilla !'

I have been undermined, and I had better go.
I am not a pauper to whom bed and board can be a

matter of moment. I have an income which is more
than adequate to my wants, and I have friends ; yes,
I thank Providence, I have friends who will gladly
receive me, and will know how to value me.'

And thus, without a word more, it became a settled
thing that Miss Penrith should depart. There
was no quarrelling ; no disputation, vacillation, she
would and she would not, in the whole affair. She
saw that her brother meant her to go, and she had
too exalted a sense of her own dignity to run the risk
of being told his meaning a second time. So Mark
the sinner stayed, and Priscilla the saint departed ;
and every one was pleased.

Yyvyan's health and spirits mended rapidly after
that understanding with his wife. He was a new
man, and took new delight in old familiar things.
He looked back at the days when he sat by the fire
brooding upon sad fancies, and waiting for death.
Life seemed all the sweeter for that dark memory.

Death must come sooner or later to all of us,'
he said to himself ; ' but it was a freezing thought to
think that he was standing on the threshold of my
door.'

He went so far as to write a brief letter to Major
Leland, thanking him for the promptitude that had
saved his life ; and this he showed to Barbara before
it was posted.

*I don't want him to think me ungrateful,' he
said ; ' for I know he acted nobly. He might have
let me die like a dog if he had chosen. I doubt if
I should have been as generous in his place.'

I do not believe you would have acted ungenerously,'
his wife said, with her grave trusting
look.

She had been told just so much as was necessary
of Mark's story; and she, her husband, Mark, and
the two doctors were the only people who ever knew
the history of the crime by which Vyvyan had so
nearly lost his life. The gossip that followed the
inquest flagged and dwindled and gradually died
away, and the scandal of Mark's foolish marriage
became only a legend of Camelot life, a tale for Aunt
Jooly to tell to future generations.

Priscilla devoted herself for about a week to the
task of packing up her belongings, which were numerous
; and then, after a sour leave-taking of brothers

and sister-in-law, she went her way, only to
reenter the house as a visitor.

I don't think you'll often be troubled with me,
Yyyyan,' she said, drawing her slim figure to its
utmost height, as she stood on the threshold by the
Squire's side, while her lighter luggage was being
stowed into the carriage. The bulk of her possessions
had gone before in one of the farm wagons.

You will be welcome whenever you please to
come, Pris, so long as you come in a friendly spirit,'
answered Yyvyan, touched by that kindly feeling
which is apt to soften a man's heart when he is
getting rid of a troublesome relative.

'You cannot want me, Yyvyan,' retorted Miss
Penrith, in her severest voice. ' Don't let there be
any pretending between us. You have new relations
whose presence here has been made a perpetual insult
to me. I leave the field open to those new relations.
I yield to those new claims ; and I hope  yeS'  whatever
I may feel as a woman, as a Christian I hope
that the course you have taken may result in your
happiness.'

She emphasised this speech with a deprecating

shrug and a pensive elevation of her eyebrows, which
implied that her fears were stronger than her hopes,
gave hex brother a frosty kiss, and then mounted the
landau with an air of melancholy dignity which must
have been equal to Madame Roland's ascent of the
scaffold. Vyvyan watched the carriage as it drove
away, but he was rewarded by no backward look from
his sister. She sat with her face towards Launceston,
and her back resolutely turned upon the home
of her childhood.

In a better world I shall be better appreciated
and better understood,' she said to herself; 'there I
may find my proper level.'

A NEW GENERATION.

Christmas came, and the three sturdy boys from St.
Columb, red-nosed and red-eared after a journey outside
the coach, in their father's care, arrived one
frosty afternoon at Place. Mark had written to the
schoolmistress to tel her that the boys were motherless
; and that worthy person had, with due caution,
informed her three pupils that their mother was in
heaven  a fact which they accepted with singular
equanimity, proceeding forthwith to inquire where
they should spend their holidays. Xot a tear was
shed, till the eldest boy, inspired with a sudden terror,
burst out into a lugubrious howl, and asked if
his papa had gone to heaven too.

*We couldn't do without pa,' he said; ' pa used
to tell us about Jack the Giant-killer, and play with
us by the fire, and take us for rides round the field
on his horse, and give us pennies.'

Loud was their delight when the father arrived

one bleak windy morning, and announced that lie
was going to take them home for a week's holiday.

Who minds the house and scolds Lucy, pa, now
that ma's in heaven?' asked Jack, the eldest boy,
when they were all three in their perch behind the
coachman, Mark occupying the box-seat in front of
them.

You are not going to the cottage. Jack. That's
shut up till somebody else wants to live there. You
are going to a big house on the moors, ever so big.'

Is that the house ma used to talk about when
she was angry ?' inquired Jack, who was of the little-pitcher
age, and had tolerably long ears. ' The house
she called Place ?'

Hush,' whispered Mark, putting up a warning
finger, and with a side glance at the coachman, whose
face had no more expression than a dead wall, but
who might have been listening to that shrill small
voice all the same. * You mustn't talk about your
mother.'

Why not ? She's in heaven, Miss Powle says.
Heaven is a nice place, isn't it ?'

Yes, yes.*

'Nicer than St. Columb ?'
'Ever so much nicer.'

And St. Columb is nicer than Camelot. We
shall all go to heaven one day, Miss Powle says, and
then we shall see ma again. I hope she won't scold
us as much as she did at the cottage, and that we
shan't have cold meat so often. Will there he
washing-days in heaven ?'

'No, no. You mustn't say such things. Jack.'
I'm glad there'll be no washing-days, for we
always had cold meat when there was washing.'

You are going to a house where you'll have hot
meat every day,' said Mark, patting the chubby
cheeks ; ' but you mustn't talk so much about your
dinner. It sounds greedy.'

I am greedy,' replied the little lad, with edifying
candour. ' Everybody says so. I sold my comforter
to Billy Blake for a wortleberry pasty. Miss
Powle said I was as bad as Esau  you know what
Esau did, don't you, pa ?  but she said Billy was a
mean boy, and she made him give me back the comforter.
I couldn't give him back the pasty, for I'd
eaten it, so I got the best of the bargain. Did God

make Jacob give back Esau's birthright? If Billy
was mean, Jacob was mean too, wasn't he ?' argued
the lad.

'You mustn't argue about your Bible, Jack. You
must read it and ask no questions.'

'Ah, but there's a book we learn out of  Bible
Questions. So you see you may ask questions about
the Bible.'

Proper questions, of course. Jack  such as are
printed in books. Those may be asked. But you
mustn't mix up Billy Blake and Jacob. That's
wicked.'

0,' said Jack, gravely acquiescent, * then I'll
read the Bible, and try not to think about what I've
read, for fear I should mix up things.'

The first effect of the fine old Tudor house upon
these youthful spirits was to awe and subdue them.
They were dumb when Barbara welcomed them ; they
had not a word for Mrs. Trevornock or Flossie. They
bit their thumbs  not in the defiant manner of Shakespeare's
Sampson, but in absolute bewilderment of
mind. They went about from room to room, clinging
to their father's coat-tails, and gazing open-eyed

and open-mouthed at the faded splendours which
were to their unaccustomed eyes as solemnly grand
as the vaulted aisles of a cathedral. They explored
the stables, under the same paternal guidance, and
timidly patted the sleek necks of unknown horses,
and made acquaintance with strange dogs, one of
which acknowledged their juvenile attentions by an
inward rattling sound of an alarming character, as if
his whole internal economy were convulsed by wrath
too deep to find utterance in vulgar barking.

But by the time the little lads had been two hours
at Place, and had been refreshed with meat and
drink, this salutary awe wore off, and left them bolder
than brass. They had already discovered that the
old oak bannister-rail was a capital thing for sliding
upon, and were making alternate descents, amidst
peals of shrill laughter, when Yyvyan came in from
his ride.

The sound of that childish mirth, the cluster of
rosy cheeks in the dusky hall, moved him strangely.
He felt no anger at this profanation of the quiet old
house, only a thrill of sweetest hope. His children's
laughter would be sounding thus, some day, he

thought; his children's bright faces would greet him
when he came home. happy welcome, sweet
smiling future, which made all life seem new !

Well, my little chaps,' he called out, with gruff
good-nature, 'let's have a look at you !'

The laughter was hushed at the sight of this
grim stranger. The boy in the act of sliding put
the break on, and descended slowly, his eyes rounded
in a solemn stare. The other two stood still at the
foot of the old brown staircase.

So you are all Penruths ?' said Yjvyan, prodding
Jack's red cheek with his bony finger.

Yes ; pa says we are to be called Penrith now.
Our name was Peters till to-day. Ma was Mrs. Peters,
but she's in heaven.'

'You mustn't talk of jour mother here,' said
Yyvyan, frowning.

That's what pa told us,' said Jack. ' Is heaven
a wicked place ?'

Heaven wicked  no !'

*0,' said Jack, looking puzzled, 'I thought perhaps
it was a bad place, and that it was wicked of ma to
go there, and that was why we mustn't talk about her.'

Phil, the second boy, and Harry, the baby, looked
on open-eyed at this encounter, staring up at the tall
gaunt uncle, and wondering who he was. Their
father had told them a good deal about this unknown
uncle, and had warned them how they were to behave
to him : how they were not to chatter impudently,
but only to answer when he spoke to them ;
for he was a very particular man, and was not used
to children. And here was that irrepressible Jack
arguing with this particular man on terms of equality !
Phil, the prudent, gave him a nudge, and whispered
that perhaps the strange gentleman was their uncle.

Vyvyan's quick ear caught the word.

*Yes, number two,' he said, looking down at
the upturned wondering face, ' I'm your uncle,
sure enough. And what's your name, my little
man?'

Philip.'

And yours, number three ?'

Harry.'

Good old family names, both of them ; *nd you
are Jack, I suppose, whom your father thinks such a
philosopher. Well, Masters Jack, Phil, and Harry,

welcome to Place. Make yourselves as happy as yoa
can, in a quiet way.'

'Were we being noisy when you came in?' asked
Jack.

*Well, yes, there was a considerable riot.'

Miss Powle lets us make as much noise as that
in recreation time, and says nothing. But we have
to be quiet at our lessons.'

'We make faces, though,' said Harry, who could
hardly speak ]Plain, ' and we pinch each other under
the table.'

What a big house this is !' exclaimed Jack,
staring round him at the twilit hall, the panelled
walls, and stags' heads, and armour. ' Is it yours?'

'Yes, it is mine, so long as I live to own it.'
Why isn't it pa's as well as jours ?' asked Jack.

'Brothers ought to share everything. Miss Powle

says so when we have apples "given us.'

Miss Powle doesn't belong to the landed gentry,
or she wouldn't talk nonsense,' answered the uncle.

What's landed gentry ?'

Jack,' cried Phil, ' pa said you were not to ask
questions.'

You seem fond of your father, young ones said
Tyvyan.

Yes, we all love pa. Pa's always kind. Ma was
cross  sometimes.'

Very often,' said the baby.

Only on washing-days  or when we tore our
clothes,' said Phil deprecatingly. ' Jack, you know
ma's in heaven, and it's rude to talk about her. If
you don't mind us sliding down the bannisters, uncle,
we'll go on playing.'

'I think,' said Vyvyan gravely, 'that bannisters
which were made in Cromwell's time were never
meant to be slid upon. Besides which you might
break your necks. Come with me, youngsters, and
I'll find some one to amuse you.'

He marched the boys off to the drawing-room,
where Barbara and her mother were talking together
in the deep embrasure of a window, while Mark and
Flossie played draughts at a little table near the fire ;
Flossie rabidly eager for kings, and dashing through
the enemy's ranks with reckless gallantry, which
generally resulted in the wholesale slaughter of her
men.

VOL. III.

'What do you mean by abandoning these poor
little chaps to their own devices?' asked Vyvyan,
coming to his own particular chair by the fire, while
Barbara rose to greet him with that gentle reverence
for his graver age which seemed more the manner of
a dutiful daughter than a wife.

He bent down to kiss the pale thoughtful
brow.

Yes, dear, ever so much better for my ride,' he
answered to her murmured inquiry. * The moorland
air will soon blow back the old strength. And you,
darling,  what have you and jour mother been doing
all the afternoon ?'

We've been so amused with the little boys,'
replied Mrs. Trevornock, ' and their surprise at the
house. It is quite a pleasure to hear their young
voices ; and it makes one think  '

Of a day when there may be the sound of still
younger voices,' said Vyvyan. *Yes, I thought of
that when I heard their laughter.'

Do you think they are like the family ?' asked
Mark timidly, as if it were audacious to make such a
suggestion.

Yes ; I can see a look of my father in those
young faces  a curious half-comic likeness  the
face of middle age hinted at in the rosy cheeks
and blue eyes of the child. Yes, they are genuine
Penruths, Mark; and we must take care they are
brought up so as to do honour to the good old
name.*

The three boys stood in a row before the fire,
gravely allowing themselves to be roasted, rather than
offend the particular uncle by too much locomotion.
Flossie, seeing how stupid and helpless
they looked, and perceiving that complete annihilation
would be the lot of her men, or ever she was
able to crown one of them, was moved to pity the
children.

Come and have a romp in the picture-gallery,'
she said, * and then you shall have some tea. I
think 111 give you the game, Mark, if you've no
objection.'

I think you've lost it,' retorted Mark, laughing ;
and then he went off with them for a game at hide-and-seek
in the long gallery, out of which the bedrooms
opened.

From that time forward Flossie was the children's
prime favourite. They liked Barbara, who was always
gentle and tender to them, but whose face had
a look of settled sadness which kept them aloof.
They loved Mrs. Trevornock, who had a pleasant
way of loading their plates with all the most bilious
things on the table, and who saved hateful of dessert
to carry up to their room and administer to them at
bedtime, whereby they went to bed in a sticky and
semi-glutinous state, their cheeks and chins smeared
with preserved ginger and other confectionery, and
fell asleep with their mouths full of macaroons ; but
they positively idolised Flossie, who romped with
them and told them stories, and gloried in all their
most mischievous tricks, and was more impish in
her ways than any of them.

There isn't a boy at Miss Powle's equal to you,'
said Jack. ' 'How I wish you went to school there !
Wouldn't she go on at you !'

Do you think I should lead her a life. Jack ?'
asked Flossie, pleased at this compliment.

I believe you'd send her daft,' said Jack. ' She
cocks her bonnet up at the back so high that some

folks say lie isn't quite right in her head ; but if
she had you to worry her she'd cock it higher, and
then they'd put her in Bodmin Asylum.'

Wouldn't that be fun ?' asked Harry, with juvenile
hard-heartiness.

Well, come now, she might be a worse old
woman,' remonstrated Phil, ' though the plums in
our Wednesday pudding are almost too far off to
halloo to each other.'

'I've christened it beetle-pudding,' said Jack;
*for it looks more like a lump of dough in which
half a dozen black-beetles had gone astray than a
genuine plum-pudding.'

You shall have a genuine plum-pudding tomorrow,'
said Flossie  ' such a pudding, such a
turkey, such mince-pies ! How dreadfully ill you
will all be next day !'

It's worth being ill for once in a way, if one
can have one's fill of Christmas pudding,' retorted
that young sensualist Jack. * Mrs. Gilt ore's making
the pudding now. I ran into the kitchen and saw
her at it, and we're all to give it a stir before we goto
bed to-night, for luck.'

Ma never let us stir the pudding,' said Phil.
She used to be cross on Christmas-eve because pa
wasn't with us. Sometimes Aunt Jooly used to
come and bring us nuts and tell us stories ; but we
never had much fun.'

SWEETER THAN MARRIAGE BELLS.

Christmas had come and gone, and the new year had
begun. Mark's three boys were back at school.
They had departed regretfully from a land Overflowing
with treacle and clotted cream, otherwise thunder
and lightning, but not wholly unblest ; for Gilmore,
the old housekeeper, had packed for them such a
hamper as only the luckiest boys take back to school ;
and Flossie had driven them down to the lodge where
the St. Columb coach was to pick them up, and had
stuffed their pockets with sweetmeats ; and what with
tips from Yyvyan and Barbara and Mrs. Trevornock,
they had departed, as it were, in a shower of half-crowns.
Mark went back with them, having certain
explanations to make to Miss Powle, who had known
her pupils hitherto by the name of Peters, and who
was henceforth to cherish and honour them as Pen-truths.


A day or two after the little boys left, Mrs. Tree

and her younger daughter set off on their
long wintry journey, Flossie elated at the idea of seeing
shop-windows again.

How I shall enjoy a walk down Regent-street, if
I can but get that lazy mother of mine to go with
me!' she said. *Even the Road will be lovely. I
wonder whether the fashions will have changed since
we left Camberwell ! One thing was settled before we
came away; a crinoline is indispensable. Mine is
only a weak invention of the dressmaker. I must
get a real one directly I go back,'

'You will be kind to him, won't you, mother
darling?' said Barbara, when she and her mother
were having their last five minutes' loving talk together
in her dressing-room, Mrs. Trevornock
wrapped up to the chin in her daughter's Christmas
gift of sables.

Kind to him, Barbara !' ejaculated the mother,
whose thoughts were full of an approaching event,
and who had made up her mind that the coming
stranger was to be a boy. * Kind to your baby !
Why, I shall worship him !'

*No, mamma dear; you don't understand,' said

Barbara, pale and grave to sadness. ' I was speaking
of Major Leland. He is to be with you next week,
Flossie says ; and he has so much need of care and
kindness.'

My dear child, I will do everything  everything
that affection can do to make up to him for all he
lost in losing you. But, my love, I am so thankful
to God things happened as they did ! To have
had you in India during that fearful time! I never
went to bed at night after reading of those agonising
scenes without thanking God you were not there. It
might have been, Barbara. You might have been
sacrificed, like so many brave true-hearted wives, and
innocent unconscious children. God has been very
good to me.'

And you will be good to him, mother  to him
who avenged those innocent victims, who held his
own life as nothing, and who, I fear, has lost it. I
saw death in his face,' she said, stifling a sob ; ' and
I should like to think that his last days were spent
peacefully with you and Flossie, and in the garden
where we were so happy. And, mother, if he were
dying, and wished to see me again  as he might

perhaps  I would come at that sad hour  come at
any hazard  to hold his hand at the last  hear his
last sigh.'

*You would not disobey your husband, dear.
He has been so good.'

Yes, he is good ; he has a noble heart. I
believe he would let me come.'

You mustn't give way to such sorrowful ideas,
pet,' urged Mrs. Trevornock soothingly. * Major
Leland is going to get well and strong again, and to
go back to India and be made a General of the sudden
Deane,' she added, having vague ideas of
Indian distinction, derived from half-heard descriptions
of places and people, dimly comprehended by a
mind troubled, like Martha's, about many things.
We are going to give him the strongest beef-tea,
and calves-foot jelly, and eggs beaten up in sherry,
and I know we shall cure him of all the mischief
done by that dreadful bullet. So you must be cheerful,
dearest, and only think of pleasant things.'

The carriage is waiting, if you please, ma'am,'
announced Gilmore; and Mrs. Trevornock, who
knew that the coach would not wait more than five

minutes even for people of distinction, blessed and
embraced her daughter, gathered up bandage, umbrella,
cloak, and other oddments, and, aided by
Gilmore, conveyed herself down-stairs to the ball,
wbere Flossie was talking to Yyvyan and Mark in
quite a family party.

It was a bard thing for Mrs. Trevornock to leave
ber daughter just at this time, but Barbara bad so
set her heart upon the carrying out of Flossie's
scheme with regard to Major Leland, that the mother
was fain to give way.

He needs you more than I can, mother,' sbe
bad whispered. * God will take care of me.'

They were gone, and the old mansion seemed
painfully silent without Flossie's rippling laughter,
and the rustle of ber silk flounces, and the air of
movement and brightness wbicb one frivolous young
woman was able to impart to life in a quiet country
bouse. But even in its stillness, in the gray winter
days. Place was a happier bone than it bad been
before calamity so nearly wrecked it. Barbara and
ber husband were more united than they bad ever
been  united by a hope and an expectancy wbicb

filled the mind of both. Yyvyan's grave tenderness
would have won grateful affection from a more stubborn
heart than Barbara's. She had seen him dying,
as she believed, the victim of a mysterious doom; she
had held him in her arms when the death-damps
were gathering on his brow; had watched beside
him as he came slowly back to life ; and in those
awful hours she had counted over the sum of his
goodness to her.

*If he should die and never know that I am
grateful to him !' she said to herself at that time.
And again : * What have I ever done to prove my
gratitude ?'

And now he was well again, quite the oldVyvyan,
a rough-hewn figure, a rugged face; but that stern
countenance was made beautiful by eyes that could
kindle with tenderness when they looked at the fair
young wife on the verge of womanhood's great ordeal.
How deep was that love when, one March midnight,
after he had been pacing the long gallery for hours
with muffled feet, noiseless save for the loud beating
of his heart, Didcott's familiar voice called him to
his wife's dressing-room, and, in the rosy firelight, ina

cradle festooned with soft snowy drapery, Ryan
Penrith saw the round pink face of his first-born,
and a pair of luminous eyes, more beautiful than he
had supposed it possible for human eyes to be, looking
boldly up at him. A being which had no existence
an hour ago was here to claim and hold his own
as Penrith of Place. The distant bells rang out
across the windy sky while the father still stood at
gaze, wondering that so fair a creature could be
mortal, and still more that it could belong to him.
Mark had ridden ofi" through the darkness to set the
bells ringing by ringers forewarned and ready ; Mark
had shown honest hearty joy at the birth of the
heir.

This was the beginning of a new stage in Barbara's
existence. It was almost as if the old purposeless
life, so empty of real happiness, had been
blotted out, and she had entered a world where all
things were new. The vanished gladness of her
youth was renewed to her in this innocent young
life; the future, so dim and formless before, took
shape and meaning. The future meant Baby Vyvyan,
and Baby Vyvyan's joys and sorrows, failures

and triumphs. The young mother's thoughts, which
a little while ago had been so dull and stagnant, went
rippling gaily down the river of years to the far-away
point where the widening stream of boyhood runs
into the broad ocean of mature life. She had something
to hope for, something to dream of, in the days
that were to come. All her being, all her power to
love and suffer, to hope and rejoice, was not to be
buried with the old lover, whose life was slowly, but
surely, ebbing to its dark close, far off in the old
familiar home.

Yes, George Leland's days were numbered, and
the number of them was dwindling to a point. Barbara
had heard of him from her mother and Flossie
very constantly since he had been an inmate of the
house in South-lane. Sometimes the letters had
been full of hopefulness ; the dark shadow of impending
doom had been lifted for a little while, and all
was sunshine. Major Leland had been wonderfully
well ; he had walked up and down the pathway by
the hazels for an hour, enjoying his cigar. He had
gone with Flossie for a stroll in the Walworth-road,
and had bought her some lovely gloves, and had made

fun of the bonnets in Mrs. Jones's window ; and he
had eaten with more appetite during the last few
days, and had declared that Mrs. Trevornock's mock-turtle
soup was nicer than the real turtle at the 
table.

*He is very happy with us,' Flossie wrote in her
last letter. ' He never goes to London, to his clubs.
He is not strong enough to face the east winds ; and
we seem to have nothing but east winds nowadays.
Some of his club friends have been down to see him,
men who were through the Mutiny, and it has been
quite delightful to her them talk of their adventures.
One young ensign was evidently struck with me.
They are all indignant about the Delhi prize-money,
of which nobody has yet received sixpence ; though
the treasures of ever so many native jewellers, who
had hidden their property when the Sepoy got possession
of the city, were dug up after the siege 
uncut sapphires and rubies and cat's-eyes  wouldn't
you delight in being the owner of a fine cat's-eye, so
distinguished, you know '?  gems of untold value.
Shawls too, and embroidery of gorgeous colours, velvet,
silk. It makes one's mouth water to hear about

such things. But these brave devoted soldiers are
to have nothing. To hear of such injustice is enough
to make one turn Radical, and insist upon the five
points of the Charter, though you know, dear, that I
am a stanch Conservative, and have always considered
Radical opinions the essence of vulgarity.*

Then had come other letters, sad in tone, which
told of failing strength, sleepless nights, days of pain
and restlessness.

*A celebrated London doctor came down to see
him yesterday,' wrote Mrs. Trevornock. ' It was at
his sister's wish, to please his people in Somerset-shire
; for he is quite satisfied himself with Mr. As-plate,
the gentleman who attended me, and whom
you may remember.'

Might remember ! Poor Barbara ! Could she
ever forget those dreary days of her mother's illness,
which had made an epoch in her life, the days in
which she had brought herself calmly to face the
greatest sacrifice a child can make to filial duty, the
sacrifice of a woman's fealty to her love.

He is perfectly satisfied with Mr. Asplatt, who
is most attentive, but on his sister's account he gave

way and sent for Dr. Styles, whom Mr. Asplatt recommended
as the great authority on this particular
complaint. Dr. Styles and Mr. Asplatt saw him together,
and had a long talk afterwards in the next
room, and then Mr. Asplatt told me Dr. Styles's
opinion. You have asked me to hide nothing from
you, darling, to tell you the actual truth, however
cruel that truth may be, and I feel it my sad duty
to obey you. The doctors have no hope, dearest.
Everything is being done that can be done ; but a
long period of exposure and privation, severest fatigue,
heat and cold, has had a fatal effect on Major
Leland's constitution. The bullet which pierced his
chest at Lucknow he might have recovered from,
terrible as the wound was, for the lungs were untouched;'
but the suffering he had undergone previously
had sapped his strength, and there was no
power of complete recovery. The voyage home prolonged
his life, but the seeds of disease were deeply
rooted, and neither rest nor medicine could restore
the strength he wasted so recklessly in the weary
days of the Mutiny. He may linger for weeks, or
even months, but he will never be well again. He

VOL. III. P

knows this, clear, and waits for the end with beautiful
resignation. I cannot tell you how dear he has
grown to Flossie and me in this sad time, and what
a consolation it has been to us to nurse and care for
him. His sisters were anxious to come to him, but
he wrote to beg them not. He had wished them all
good-bye when he was in Somersetshire, he told
them, and for them to meet again would be only to
prolong sorrow.'

This letter arrived towards the end of April, when
Yyvyan the younger was just four weeks old, and
when the window in Barbara's dressing-room was all
bloom with spring flowers; the colours and perfume
of which were supposed to have already engaged
the infant's attention, and to have set his
budding faculties in motion. If he opened his eyes
a little wider than usual he was supposed to be * taking
notice ;' a feeble smile was accepted as evidence
of profound thought ; a chuckle was taken for a
burst of wit ; so fondly did mother and father watch
for the dawn of reason. On this fair April day,
when all things had a happy look, Barbara sat by
the window robed in white, pale as a saint in an old

Flemish picture, the baby lying in her lap, and her
mother's letter in her hand.

Vyvyan the elder came in while she was reading
it.

'How sad your face is !' he said. ' I hope there
is no bad news in your letter ?'

Only news I have been expecting for a longtime,'
she answered quietly, handing him the letter
as she spoke.

He read it from the first line to the last with a
face that was full of thought, but not of anger. Twice
he glanced from the letter to his wife, as she sat
looking up at him with sorrowful eyes and parted lips.

Would it make you happier to see him again
before he dies ? Would it be any comfort to you to
bid him good-bye ?' he asked.

Vyvyan, how did you know, how could you
guess ? That is the favour I wanted to ask you.'

I could read as much in your face. Well, I
will be no churl to him at the last, though he was
happier than I in winning your love.'

My first love, Vyvyan,' she said gently, giving
him her hand.

What ! Is there a second version of the same
story ? Is it possible for a woman to love twice T

I have learned to love you she answered. * I
think I have been stony-hearted and slow to win,
but your patient goodness has conquered even my
cold heart. Do you despise my love, Yyvyan, because
it has come so late ?'

Despise your love, my treasure, my delight !'
he cried, kneeling by her side. * If a rough-hewn
fellow like me could find words to express idolatry,
I would tell you the value I set upon your love. I
have been your faithful slave, Barbara, from the
hour I first saw you. I should have been your slave
to the last, had you treated me ever so badly. And
now, dear, if you are very sure that it will be a consolation
to you to see Major Leland once more 
remember how full of pain such partings are  we
will go to London as soon as you are strong enough
to travel. I owe him some recompense, poor fellow ;
for I fear I was sadly wanting in gratitude that
night when he dragged this weary body and soul of
mine out of the jaws of death. I thought life such
a worthless boon just then that I resented his impertinence

in forcing the gift upon me. Now, now
that life is worth having, I can afford to thank him
for his pluck and readiness.'

So it was settled between husband and wife,
without further discussion, that they should go to
London and spend a week or two at a West-end
hotel, so soon as Barbara should feel capable of
taking such a journey. Gilmore, who had been
promoted to the office of nurse, and who believed
that no such infant as Vyvyan Penrith had ever yet
adorned the earth by his presence, was to accompany
her mistress in charge of that wonderful baby.

Vyvyan,' said Barbara, looking up at him with
earnest eyes when this journey had been decided,
there is nothing you have ever done for me  and
you have loaded me with benefits  which has so
proved to me the goodness of your heart as this act
of to-day.'

THE FORTUNE OF WAR.

In these glad spring days, the season of Proserpine's
rough wooing, when the borders were glorious
with yellow daffodils, George Leland was just able
to creep slowly up and down the garden-walk, leaning
on his stout bamboo-cane, and sheltered from
east winds by the vine clad wall  just able to travel
at slowest pace, stopping every now and then to
take breath, from one end of that half-acre pleasure-ground
to the other. To these narrow bounds had
he come at last; he who, a year and a half ago,
thought it a trifle to ride seventy miles between
dawn and midnight ; he who had been first among
the young athletes at Shrewsbury. It had come to
this : two roods of garden at a halting pace in the
midday sun ; and for all the rest of his day the dull
confinement of a sick-room, and for his nights sleeplessness
or harrowing dreams.

He knew that he was to die, and he had resigned

himself long ago to this fate  had, indeed, taught
himself to think that death was better than life,
since he had so little to leave or to lose. Yet there
were times when the old fire flashed from his dark
eyes, when his heart beat loud and fast at the vision
of what might have remained for him to do had life
been longer; most of all at the thought of his
native regiment, the wild hillel, soldiers of his
own making, who, when they joined him at Delhi
after long severance, pressed round him and leapt
about him like a pack of foxhounds round a beloved
master, kissing his hands and feet, his bridle, his
stirrup-leathers. With those faithful fellows he
had done some wonderful things in the plain before
Delhi, where his very name had been a terror to
the foe.

He had cut his way to fame and honour with his
sword. Money he had never valued, and twelve
years' unparalleled work had brought him but little
of this world's gear or gain. He had flattered no
patron, cringed to no authority, military or civil.
Through the dark cloud of an unmerited disgrace he
had come steadily to the front ; and had been, for

216 BARBARA.

his age and standing, one of the foremost men in
India when a Sepoy's bullet, fired from a dark corner
of a deserted palace, made a sudden end of a career
that had promised so much.

Fortune of war,' he said to himself, as he layton
the sofa where he and Barbara had sat side
by side, bending over Hindostaneeee exercises or playing
chess, in the happy days that were gone. Ah,
what games at chess those were, when lovely eyes
lifted shyly to his made him forget to castle just at
that critical moment in which castling meant victory;
or when the tremulous touch of a little hand checkmated
him more completely than queen and bishop,
knight and pawn. Such vile playing, such happy
players ! It was all over. The Crimean war had
been fought ; the great Sepoy rebellion had smouldered
and blazed, and had been extinguished, not
without glory, not without loss, and Church and
State were rejoicing at the restoration of peace in
that far away empire. Cabinets had gone out and
come in ; everybody was growing old and gray and
grave : the story of life was over, and here came
death with the last chapter.

He was a wonderfully patient invalid, though his
disease was one in which death does not come painlessly.
He had hours of suffering, hours of ease.
The first he lore with silence, and troubled no one
with his pain. In his easy hours he was almost the
George Leland of old; and Flossie, who was his
constant nurse and companion, sometimes found
herself forgetting how swiftly the dark end was
bearing down upon them. If he was patient and
resigned, his young nurse was heroic also after her
own fashion ; for when her heart was sorest, she
contrived to be cheerful.

Tiat good you do me, little Flossie !' George
Leland said to her one sunny morning as they were
slowly pacing the narrow walk, his lean brown hand
resting on her shoulder. ' How could I have borne
these slow hours of decay without you ?'

'I'ou would have head your sisters,' said Flossie,
blushing at his praise.

They are very good, and would have been skilful
nurses, I daresay; but they would not have
reminded me of Barbara, they do not belong to the
happiest time of my life, as you do. You seem part

of a bygone happiness, Flossie ; a link in the chain
of that golden past, which I brood upon and dream
about now when earth's future lies within such
narrow limits. Men whose days are numbered love
to dwell upon the past. Memory serves them instead
of hope. No, Flossie, my sisters could never
be to me what you are. Even the house in which
this body of mine was born is not so dear to me as
the house where my heart found its first and only
mistress. That was a second birth which counts
for more than the first. Then, again, my sisters,
all but Marian, have other interests  husband,
children. Even Marian has her Sunday-school and
all the poor of the parish under her protection. She
could never be such a companion to me as you
have been.'

*I am so glad,' faltered Flossie. 'I only wish
you were going to be with us always.'

To turn your house into a hospital for incurables,'
said Major Leland, with a smile half sad, half
tender.  You are generous enough even for that, I
believe. If I had come back from India a truncated
creature, the mere hulk of a man, yet in excellent

health, and warranted to live to eighty, you would
have taken me in and cherished my poor carcass, and
devoted yourself to making life tolerable to a lump
of infirmity. Happily, my love, the complaint I
suffer from is not without a cure.'

Flossie looked at him interrogatively, with tearful
eyes.

Death, dear, the sovereign remedy for all diseases.
Don't cry, my pet. If  if  I could see her
again, just once more look into those lovely eyes, feel
the touch of that gentle hand, I think I could say
with Manfred,

'Tis not so terrible to die'"

*You shall see her; she shall come to you!'
cried Flossie. ' I will write to her to-day.'

Xot for the world !' cried George Leland. * She
has a new care, a new love  her son ! If she would
leave her husband to come to me, she would not leave
her son.'

She shall leave all the world, for your sake ; just
to see you once more, just to clasp your hand. She
told mother she would come if you asked for her;
and you have asked, and she shall come.*

She shall come, for the end is drawing near,'
thought Flossie full of sadness.

Every morning, let the sun shine ever so brightly,
or the air be ever so balmy, she could see how the
little walk across two roods of ground cost the sick
man a sharper effort ; how the hollow cheek grew
hollower, and the unnatural lustre of the eye less like
the brightness of health.

RED CLOTH AND Olive-LEAVES.

They had made up a bed for Major Leland in the
garden-parlour, and had thrown open the folding-doors
between the two rooms. His complaint was
one in which fresh air was essential, and Mrs. Tree
gladly sacrificed the daily order of her house
to his comfort. She and Flossie could be anywhere,
she said naively, when the invalid protested against
this usurpation of the two sitting-rooms. The
kitchen was quite good enough for them to take their
meals in.

Indeed, we are very fond of the kitchen,' said
Flossie. ' In the old days we used to sit there sometimes,
for pleasure, when Amelia had an evening
out.'

The ' old days' meant the time before Mrs. Tree
income was supplemented by three hundred
a year from Cornwall. There had been certain improvements
and alterations in the little domicile

since this expansion of means, which leant rather to
ceremony and refinement than to actual homely
comfort ; and Flossie sometimes alluded with a sigh
to that less wealthy period of her life, when it had
seemed a natural thing for her to sit in the kitchen.

It was the beginning of May, and weather fairer
than May often brings  sunshine as warm as early
June. Flossie had found one adventurous lily of the
valley unfolding its waxen petals in the shady angle
of the wall, and had brought it triumphantly to the
Major, who lay on his sofa by the open window, and
fancied to-day that his two roods of pathway would
be almost an impossible journey.

'A little later, dear,' he said, when Flossie proposed
their usual walk. * I know it is the loveliest
morning we have had yet. The blackbird in his
wicker cage next door has been telling me so repeatedly
since sunrise; but I hardly feel equal to my
constitutional just yet.'

Do you see this ?' asked Flossie, holding up the

lily.

Barbara's favourite flower ! Yes ; I remember,
the first night we drank tea together in this room,

there was a bunch of lilies of the valley on the table,
and Tou two girls had each a cluster of the same
flower in 3-our belts. You were yourselves as fair
and pure as lilies, and I fancied I had come into a
world of flowers and simple innocent things. How
happy we were that evening !'

Happy!' echoed Flossie. 'I can't make out
how it was ever in us to be so ridiculously happy.
But you see, after growing up almost strangers to
masculine society, it was something stupendous to
find ourselves with an officer actually our own property.
For you seemed quite to belong to us by the
time we had finished tea.'

When I am dead, Flossie,' said George Leland,
who had been looking dreamily out of the window
while the girl talked, * I should like some one who
has cared for me a little to lay a bunch of lilies of
the valley in my coffin. Will you do it ?'

Don't talk like that,' cried Flossie, bursting
into tears. ' They will be out of season long before
then.'

I doubt it, dear. I think that the lilies and I
may go out of season together.'

Two days ago she had talked of writing to her
sister. Nothing had been said about Barbara since
then. George Leland had asked no question of his
devoted nurse ; but more than once she had seen his
eyes resting interrogatively upon her face, she had
marked a nervous expectation in his manner when
there was knocking or ringing at the front door.

Let me read you to sleep,' said Flossie, grieved
at his restlessness on this particular morning.

Nothing seemed to interest or amuse him. His
books, his papers, were looked at and flung aside.
His attention evidently wandered all the time she
talked to him. Mrs. Trevornock's kind face, looking
in at the door now and then to see how he was going
on, did not win from him the usual smile, the usual
friendly greeting. His thoughts were astray. He
was even fretful and impatient  he who had never
before been so since the beginning of his illness.

*Let me read you to sleep,' repeated Flossie,
opening a volume of Byron. ' You generally do fall
asleep when I read poetry. I am very glad of it, for
it's good for you, though it's not a compliment to
my reading.'

Very well, dear. Half an hour's sleep would bea
boon. My thoughts and fancies would not let me
sleep last night, and the blackbird kept me awake
this morning.'

That blackbird must be murdered, or sent
away,' said Flossie. * I know you like the Giaour,
don't you ?'

Infinitely.'

Perhaps you prefer the Corsair''

No, let us have the Giaour. The gentleman's
moral character may be open to question, but he
knew how to love.'

We'll skip the description of Greece,' said
Flossie, with whom worship of nature was not a
strong point, * and come to the pith of the story.'

And then she began, ' 'Scio thundering comes on
blackest steed ?' and warmed with her subject. As
she went on, her cheeks glowed and her eyes kindled,
and she read just a little less vilely than the average
schoolgirl.

George Leland loved his Byron. In that wild
hill-life of his, in many a lonely night under canvas,
with the covering of his tent drawn back to admit

VOL. Ill, Q

the glow of the fire outside, and no prospect but the
black sky, or the visage of an occasional jackall, or a
possible tiger, peering at him across the flames, he
had sat in the red light reading one of the few books
he could contrive to carry about with him in his
nomadic life. The want of many books had been a
trouble to him in his rare intervals of leisure ; and
his half dozen volumes, Shakespeare, Byron, Shelley,
Plutarch, Don Quixote, and the Bible, had grown all
the dearer to him because they formed the beginning
and the end of his library.

He knew that passionate tale by heart, and could
have repeated it more fluently than Flossie read. He
lay listening with half-closed eyes. The wild horseman,
the reckless rider, the skilled swordsman, the
true lover, yes, here was a hero, faulty, no doubt, but
with whom George Leland could sympathise. As a
sedative nothing could have been better than
Flossie's reading. She had a strong sense of the
swing in the verse, and she gave a gentle up and
down accent to the metre, like the lapping of summer
wavelets against a sea-wall, or the drip, drip of
a fountain.

The invalid bad had a bad night; and after
listening lazily for a little while bis chin sank upon
his breast, and a gentle refreshing sleep stole over
him just as the insect queen of eastern spring was
rising on its purple wing.

There was a sulphur-hued butterfly flitting across
the open window while Flossie read, one of the first
of the year's butterflies. The Persian lilacs in front
of the house were in bloom, and the hawthorns were
in bud. All the air was full of sweet odours, and the
warm sunshine comforted the sleeper like a draught
of strong wine.

He slept better than he had slept for some days,
for his slumbers of late had been fitful and brief.
For a little while he could hear Flossie's voice flowing
on like a drowsy rivulet deep in the heart of a
wood, and then he was verily in dreamland, where
there were other voices and other faces.

He was in India again, in the cantonments before
Delhi. Yonder above the ridge glittered the
tall minarets of the Jumna Musjid, the chief
mosque, dominating all lesser and lower buildings
from its rocky eminence in the heart of the city.

Old comrades and old friends were round him. The
faces of the dying  and how many a have soldier
had perished from sword or sickness in that dreary
time of waiting !  looked up at him with the sad
farewell smile. Then he fancied himself in the thick
of a sudden skirmish before the walls of the city, all
hurry and confusion, the black faces of the Dandies
grinning through the smoke of their guns, the scarlet
turbans and sashes of his own horsemen making
spots of colour in the gloom.

Then the smoke rolled away, the golden pinnacles
of mosque and palace melted into the blue of an
English April sky, daffodils were blowing, blackbirds
whistling, and Barbara and he were in the
garden hand in hand.

The little hand lay in his. He clasped it, and
it had a substance never felt in dreams  a hand that
trembled in his, a living hand that tenderly returned
his fond pressure.

Barbara!' he cried; and then he started out
of sleep and saw her kneeling beside his bed, pale
as a snowdrop, with tearful eyes uplifted to his
face.

Barbara, my love ! 0, bow good, bow pitiful of
you to come !'

Did you think I should stay away when I beard
that you bad asked for me ?'

No, dearest, I thought you would come ; I
could not sleep last night for the thought of your
coming. I lay awake and listened to the ticking
of my watch, counting the minutes that must
pass before I could see you. And to-day at every
sound I fancied you were on the threshold. Yet
when you really came I was lying like a log, and
knew nothing. How long bave you been in the
room ?'

Five minutes at the most. I beard you were
asleep, and crept softly in to wait for your waking.
Even if you bad not asked for me, I should bave
come. I bad Yyvyan's leave to come to you. Our
journey bad been arranged before Flossie's letter
came. It was Yyvyan's own idea. He is in the
bouse. He wants to thank you for saving bis life.
He was not himself that day when you were at Place,
and now be feels that be must bave seemed ungrateful.'


*I did no more than I would have done for a
stranger, Barbara. He owes me no thanks.'

*He and I think otherwise. But for you he
might have died, died of poison. It is too horrible
to think of. But for you ! 0, thank God you were
near us, thank God you were able to help us !'

You have a son, Barbara,' said George Leland,
after a brief silence. * Flossie told me.'

Yes ; he is the dearest creature. Will you see
him by and by, if if it will not worry you ?'

It will delight me. I shall feel such joy as
Simeon felt. Ah, Barbara, sometimes in my dreams
far away I have pictured you with your son lying in
your arms, fair as the Mother of God. Idle dreams,
foreshadowing happiness that was never to be mine.
Sit beside my pillow, love  there, in your sister's chair
so that I can see your face. Such meetings and
such partings must come in many lives, I suppose ;
but they wrench a man's heartstrings. And yet I
saw so much of pain and parting in the East that I
fancied I had worn out my capacity for pity, and
now I am pitying myself because I must leave the
world in which you live.'

'George!'

Do you remember that morning at Southampton
when I saw your sweet pale face at the station ;
when you called my name with a little choking cry,
and then fell fainting on my shoulder ? Barbara,
looking back at that morning I am sorry I did not
change the whole plan of my existence, give up every
hope of fame and honour, hazard even the stigma of
poltroonery, so that I might stay in England and
make you my wife. What can life give a man better
than happiness, and you and I might have been
happy ? Yes, love, we might. We should have
begun life as paupers ; but I would have found someway
of winning our bread, the hope and energy
within me would have made it easy. So happy a
man must have succeeded. Barbara, I was a fool to
part from you that morning !'

Dear George, you know you did what was right.
You took the only course possible. Could I have
esteemed you had you been so weak as to sacrifice
your profession for my sake ?'

You would have loved me for the love that
made me weak. No, sweetest, you are wise and

right. I could not have sacrificed my calling without
sacrificing my honour. God meant me to be a soldier.
And I did good work yonder ; there is comfort
in that. The work done will remain when I am
dust.'

He lay back upon his pillow for a little while with
closed eyes. Then came a painful fit of coughing,
and Barbara's gentle hand wiped the perspiration
from his brow and gave him the lemonade that stood
ready on the table by his sofa.

'I should like to see your husband,' he said presently,
when he had recovered from the exhaustion
that followed the cough. ' I want to thank him for
bringing you.'

He shall come to you this moment.'

She went to the door and called Flossie. Pen-ruth
of Place had been sitting meekly in the neat
little kitchen with Mrs. Trevornock ; Amelia scrubbing
at her pots and pans in the adjacent scullery,
and singing, * Ever of thee I'm faw-aw-awndly dreaming,'
in a voice subdued in harmony with the pervading
quiet of the house.

AskVyvyanto come, Flossie,' whispered Barbara ;

and the Squire came silently and stood beside his
dying rival's sofa, looking down at him with grave
pitying eyes, as a man in the fulness and vigour of
strength newly restored might look at fading manhood.


I am sorry to see you brought so low,' he said,
with unusual gentleness.

Do not be sorry for me. I had very little to
live for  except duty. I have had twelve years of
that; and perhaps have done harder work in those
twelve years than many men do in a long life. I
don't think my life has been quite useless and purposeless
 and  ' with a smile  ' I have had enough
of it. I am glad to go to the land where the wicked
cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest.'

I want to thank you for saving my life. I
treated you churlishly that day, for I fancied life was
not worth keeping. But, God be praised, I have
learnt a new lesson since then. I thank you from
my soul. But for you I believe I should be lying in
my grave.'

How shall I thank you for bringing your wife
here to-day?'

I need no thanks. I brought her as I would
have brought her to her brother, for I know that she
is pure and true, and I have faith in the man who
snatched me from the jaws of death.'

Vyvyan and Barbara left the sick-room after this,
and Flossie resumed her accustomed seat near the
sofa. The doctors had said that the invalid was to
have plenty of repose. He might have cheerful
society, and should be amused as much as possible ;
but there must be intervals of silence and rest.

*I have some people to call upon in London,
Barbara,' said Mr. Penrith, in the hall. ' You can
stop with your mother. I'll come back in the evening
to take you to the hotel, or you can stay here
to-night, if you prefer it.'

She only answered with a loving pressure of the
hand he had laid upon her shoulder. She looked at
him gratefully, with eyes in which there was pathos
too deep for tears ; and so in silence he left her. Mrs.
Trevornock was up-stairs with Gilmore and the
baby-heir, offering worship to that piece of infantine
perfection. The house was very quiet. Barbara
looked round her with a vague feeling, as if she had

Suddenly found herself there in a dream. Slowly
and gradually the memory of her last morning at
home came back to her, a gray and chilly picture :
the sunless spring morning, the stern-visaged bridegroom;
her mother's trembling hands helping to
arrange her simple bridal attire ; all the joylessness
of that day which should have been brimming over
with joy. With what a fond regret she had looked
back at the past, standing on the brink of a new
life ! With what shuddering aversion she had shrunk
from every thought of the future !

And now the years had come and gone, not all
unhappy, and she was reconciled to the grim husband
and the lonely home ; and there was a new sunshine
that lighted up the dull gray life into beauty, and
filled the future with promise.

I can never be unhappy while my darling is with
me, and I can never forget my husband's goodness
to-day,' she said to herself.

She looked at the little hall, with its simple
adornments : an engraving after Landseer, the
Shepherd's Prayer,' a late acquisition of Mrs. Tree
; the bowl of wallflowers on the mahogany

slab. How small everything looked, and how ridiculously
modern, after the low wide rooms at Place,
the sombre panelling, the dusky old pictures, the
gleaming armour, and faded arras !

Yet there was a tenderness in her heart for this
old home which was almost pain.

'0 the happy struggling life,' she thought, ' when
a five-pound note was rapture, and a tax-paper despair
! Am I the same woman who used to set outwith
Flossie to buy tea and sugar, and to come back
in the gloaming to see the fire burning merrily, as
we came round the curve of the lane, and the dusky
outline of mother sitting beside the hearth waiting
for us ?'

There was a little side-door leading into the garden.
She went out and walked slowly across the
daisy-sprinkled grass, her mind full of memories.

There were the two basket chairs in which she
and Flossie had spent so many summer afternoons,
reading or working, before George Leland's coming,
and where, afterwards, he and Barbara had sat side
by side reading Byron, or talking of the future that
was to be theirs far away in the shadow of the Himalayas,

building castles and planning a life of impossible
happiness.

She sank into one of the chairs, weary with the
weight of sadness. He was dying. Flossie had told
her what the doctor had said yesterday. His life
was now only a question of days and hours. He
might linger for a week, he might die before the
night. Nothing more could be done to prolong the
struggle. The end was inevitable.

So good, so brave, so true !' she thought ; ' and
tomorrow there may be no such man as George
Leland upon this earth  a memory only, a dear and
cherished name.'

At this thought the tears came. She gave herself
up to a passionate burst of grief ; she fell on
her knees upon the grass, and hid her face upon her
folded arms in an attitude that looked like prayer.

She knew not how long she had been kneeling
thus when a hand lightly touched her shoulder, and
looking up she saw George Leland standing by her
side leaning on his stick.

Barbara, my love, you must not regret me,' he
said gently. ' You do not know how happy I am ;

yes, completely happy. To have you here at the
last, to know that your husband is stanch and good,
and loves you with a worthy love  is not all this
enough to make death easy ? Do you think I am
sorry because I have not been allowed to go on living
to feebleness and gray hairs, to be lifted on my
horse by a couple of troopers, or to have to ask an
aide-de-camp which way my men are facing, because
my own old eyes are too blind to see ? I have seen
veterans commanding armies when it would have
been better for themselves and their country they
were under the sod. I shall not live to the useless
age, Barbara.'

His eye brightened and his hollow cheek flushed
as he talked. Looking at him, she began to wonder
if the doctors could be right  if there were not too
much life and energy here to be the prey of death.

I am so glad you are well enough to walk in the
garden,' she said.

I struggle for that every day ; the air and sunlight
and flowers do me more good than doctor's
stuffs. Dear old garden ! Do you remember our
moonlight waltzes ?'

*I shall never forget them.'

'And the mawkish " Prima Donna" ? One of
the regimental bands played that unforgotten waltz
one day at a review, and at the first bar I felt as if
somebody had stabbed me. The melody brought
back the old time, and you were resting lightly on
my arm as we went slowly round upon the grass.
"Well, I suppose it is something for a man to be able
to say that, for two months of his life, he was utterly
happy. "Will you come for a stroll round the
garden ? May I lean upon your shoulder as I do on
Flossie's ?'

'Pray do.'

They walked slowly along the narrow path by
the hazels. This part of the garden was white and
rosy with apple-blossoms, and perfumed with wallflowers.
The bright glad sunshine, the happy look
of the flowers, tortured Barbara's heart. It was as
if there was gladness everywhere, although he was
so soon to die.

They came to the corner where the lilies of the
valley grew under the fig-tree, whose crinkled leaves
were just unfolding.

*How well I remember this spot,' he said, stopping
to take breath, * and your telling me how you
buried your canary here, under the lilies ! Have
you forgotten ?'

No,' she said ; ' I buried something here afterwards,
something dearer than my canary, though I
was foolish enough to be almost heart-broken when
he died.'

Another favourite bird ?'

'Your letters. I kept them till my wedding
morning, and then I made up my mind to burn
them. But I had not the heart to do it. So I came
here at daybreak, and dug a grave, dug the grave of
my first love. The lilies are growing over your
letters, George; the letters that once made me so
happy, and the last cruel letter that broke my
heart.'

That cruelty was meant for kindness, Barbara.
You can never know the struggle it cost me to write
that letter.'

Well, it changed our fate, that was all. Suppose,
instead of doing what you thought your duty,
and writing as you did, you had said, " I am in great

trouble. Come and be my wife !" I should have
gone out to you by the next steamer, just as I went
to Southampton.'

And you would have found me a disgraced man,
without a hope of promotion; a pauper, without a
chance of fortune ; and you would have had good
cause to think me the meanest hound in India.'

I would have trusted you against all the world.'

Dear love, I was not base enough to profit by
such trustfulness ; that was why I wrote as I did,
vaguely, so that my letter should not be an appeal
to your generosity.'

They went slowly along by the wall, and the
southern border which pretended to grow strawberries,
and succeeded admirably in producing
grounded; grounded with which Flossie waged
an intermittent warfare, and which always got the
better of her ; for it grew while she was asleep, and
waxed strong in her every interval of idleness.

One circuit of the half-acre garden was now as
much as George Leland could manage. He was
glad to go in and lie down presently, and then
Barbara left him to her sister's care.

VOL. III. R

It was a day full of sadness. Even Mrs. Trevor-neck's
delight in her grandson was damped by her
sorrow for that brave spirit passing away. She and
Flossie took it in turns to sit with the invalid, while
Barbara sat alone in her mother's bedroom with her
baby on her lap. She had made her journey from
the far western point of England to see George
Leland once more; but she submitted quietly to
remain away from him in these last sad hours,
while others tended him and kept him company.
She could not trust herself to watch by him as
Flossie watched ; she could not have so schooled her
countenance, so governed her voice. Her sorrow must
have burst from her in some sudden passion which
would have given a new agony to the dying man.

She sat by the open window while the sun went
down behind distant spires and chimneys, and the
evening shadows crept into the room ; sat there thinking
of the past, and the happy girlish days when she
had stood before yonder looking-glass decking herself
for an evening's pleasure with her betrothed  opera,
or play, or concert  a slender figure, robed in white,
with flowers in her hair, the fond mother waiting

upon her, and hanging about her, and admiring her
all the time ; and impatient Flossie standing by imploring
to be hooked or pinned, and protesting she
should never be ready when the cab came to fetch
them ; and then the lover's resonant voice calling at
the foot of the little staircase.

And he lay dying in the room where they two
had been so happy together, and she was another
man's wife !

There was an awful stillness in the house. No
one came near her, except Gilmore, who brought
her a cup of tea, and made the baby a cosy nest on
Mrs. Trevornock's bed.

Shall I bring candles, ma'am ?' asked Gilmore,
when her little charge had been hushed and patted
and wheedled to sleep. ' It's so dismal for you
sitting up here alone in the dark.'

No, thank you, Gilmore. I'd rather be as I am.'

So Gilmore curtsied and retired, and Barbara
was alone once more.

She had her mother's Testament open before
her, the large print clearly visible in the gloaming
to eves familiar with the text :

I am the resurrection and the life : he that
believeth in Me, though he were dead, yet shall he
live.'

The moon had risen  a pale young moon  above
opening bloom and folded leaf; the evening was
wearing on towards night, when Flossie opened the
door, and came creeping up to Barbara, her face
blotted with tears.

Come,' she sobbed ; ' mother says he is sinking
fast. And he would like to see you once more.'

Barbara rose and went without a word.

The garden window was open wide to the soft
moonlit sky. There was a shaded lamp near the
bed on which George Leland lay ; and by the dim
light Barbara saw the awful change in his face, the
glazing eye, the cold gray hue of the cheek. She
knelt by the bed, and he stretched out his hands
to her feebly, as if he were groping for something
beyond his reach, till one hand rested on her forehead.


Is this Barbara ?'
*Yes.'

Thank God ! Barbara and England ! I thought
I was in the hospital at Lucknow, and that there
were black faces round my bed. To die at home ;
to hear your voice at last. That is happiness.'

Later, awakening from a brief sleep, he murmured,
' Lycurgus decreed that only the Spartans
who had fought for their country were to be buried
in red cloth and olive-leaves, and to have their
names inscribed upon their tombs. In that rude
age valour was virtue.' Then, after an interval in
which he lay with half-closed eyes, murmuring
strange snatches of speech, sometimes the name of
a brother officer  Chamberlain, Seaton, Light 
sometimes the word of command to his own men, he
lifted himself suddenly from his pillow, opened his
eyes, looked at Barbara long and earnestly, and then,
extending his wasted arms, drew her to his breast
and kissed her pale lips, murmuring, ' This once,
love, and for the last time. Dearest, if in a better
world we see and know those whom we have loved
on earth, this is not parting.'

She knelt for a long time by his bed, he lying
sometimes in silence, sometimes with intervals of

wandering speech, sometimes with gleams of consciousness;
but through all the feeble hand held
hers, as if there were comfort in her touch. And
thus, at the stroke of midnight, he passed from a
brief interval of troubled sleep to the placid slumber
which knows no earthly waking.

Ten years have come and gone since George Leland
was laid in his last rest in the Somersetshire
churchyard, where his mother and father had been
buried before him. The Indian Mutiny has become
history : Outran, the Bayard of India, is lying in
Westminster Abbey; Clyde, too, is gone, full of
years and of honours ; Napier is winning new laurels
on a strange soil. The world is altered and aged by
a decade. Society has grown more artistic, and perhaps
more artificial. To the old-fashioned 
period has succeeded a milder age of hock
and claret. Men drink less, women more. The
value of a sovereign has diminished by thirty percent.
Everybody worth speaking of is rich. Everybody
worth mention has newly furnished his house,
and taken to collecting old china.

But as in the days of the Commonwealth architecture
in Cornwall remained still pretty much what
it had been in the reign of Elizabeth, so now the

old house on the moor is slow to follow the caprices
of London fashion. Everything at Penrith Place
has the same grave and sober air as of old  the
same neutral tints, dull grays, and faded greens predominate
in the furniture, making an admirable
background for the wealth of exquisite flowers with
which Barbara Penrith loves to decorate her rooms.
Yet, though the house is grave and gray as of
old, there is now within its walls all the life and
gladness of a large household and a happy band of
light-hearted children. The ten-year-old heir is not
alone in his nursery; there are two slender blue-eyed
girls, with long fair hair, either of whom might
have sat for Millais' picture of ' My First Sermon.*
There is a toddling boy-baby, unanimously pronounced
the very finest thing in babies, an entirely
new development of infantine life, and immeasurably
superior to the infant-heir about whom so much fuss
was made ten years ago. Then there are Mark's
two tall lads from Whetstone Grammar-school, and
the eldest son. Jack, home from Oxford for a seemingly
interminable vacation which he calls * the
Long,' a period ostensibly employed in coaching

with a tutor, but the greater part of "which is devoted
to dogs, horses, and guns. And lastly, there
are two fairy-like girls of seven and five years, and
one ridiculously chubby boy aged two, who also
claim Mark for father.

Tho is Mark's second wife and the mother of
these new and tender sprouts upon the family tree
of Penrith ? Who but this neat little matron, who
rides to hounds in a short olive-green habit and a
tall chimney-pot hat, who is always first in the
scurry, and who needs no guide to show her the
shortest way across country. This fearless rider,
this happy little matron, is Flossie, who, after Mark
had patiently courted her for a period of between
three and four years, during which he bore more
snubbing and ridicule than ever a man endured from
a sharp-tongued mistress, finally relented one day,
as she and Mark were waiting for the hounds in a
sheltered corner beside a copse, and promised to
make him unutterably happy for the rest of his life.

She has kept her promise nobly : Mark is as
happy and as true-hearted as he was once false and
miserable. The quarries have prospered with the

growing prosperity of the building trade ; and Mark,
who is now a partner in the business, has become a
rich man. He has built himself a house with a
windy bell tower on the hill outside Launceston,
and looks down upon a lower world from brand-new
plate-glass windows. Everything in Flossie's house
contrasts curiously with the surroundings of her
sister. Furniture and ornaments are the essence of
newness, and are faintly suggestive of the fancy repository
in the Walworth-road. The prismatic hues
of much Bohemian glass glorify the drawing-room,
where proofs after Landseer stand darkly out against
a white-and-gold paper, and upon whose carpet all
Flora's gems are represented in their gayest colours.
Launceston matrons who have never envied Barbara
her grand old Tudor house feel the pangs of the
covetous when they behold Mrs. Mark Penrith's
plate-glass windows and French china shepherdesses.
And Barbara is happy. Her cup is filled to the
brim with domestic joys : the love of little children,
who grow dearer to her and fill her life more completely
day by day ; the love of her proud and happy
mother, on whose gentle face the shadows of time fall

SO lightly that she is prettier with gray hair than she
was when her dark-brown tresses showed no streak
of silver ; the deep affection of a husband who has
won her heart by long years of unchanging fidelity,
unselfish devotion. She has these blessings, and
knows their worth, and is grateful to the God who,
in withholding something, has yet given so much.
And when memory, awakened by a sound, an image,
a vagrant thought, wanders back to the passionate
hopes and dreams of her girlhood, she sees the picture
of the past in a tender light which is not all
sorrow and bitterness.

'My hero!' she says to herself sometimes. *I
am proud to have loved him, and to have been beloved
by him ; proud to remember how he lived and
how he died.'

He is something in her life still, an ever-abiding
influence ; for the dead we have truly loved have
their part in our lives to the end. The memory of
him is interwoven with the very fabric of her mind.
And thus, in the calm afternoon light of a simple
domestic life, loving and beloved, Barbara's story
closes.

Thomas Trevornock, still familiarly described by
Flossie as M. T., has gone to his last earthly rest.
He died not exactly in the odour of sanctity, but at a
most convenient season, and just in time to escape
possible involvement in a criminal prosecution, on
account of certain artful and deeply-laid schemes in
the silver-mining line, which same process brought
Mr. Maulford's ruddy locks under the shears of the
prison barber, and most abruptly put a fullstop, or
at least a colon, in the shape of seven years' penal
servitude, to that clever gentleman's promising career.
In vain did Lewis Maulford's counsel enlarge
upon the youthful innocence of his client; in vain
portray, with pathetic eloquence, the affliction of a
widowed mother, harshly deprived of the most devoted
and dutiful of sons. A heartless jury found
the prisoner guilty, and an equally heartless judge
pronounced the sternest sentence which the law
allowed. Happily for the honour of the Penruths,
the junior partner had been the active agent in these
fraudulent endeavours to achieve fortune, and Mr.
Trevornock's name was not blazoned in the public
prints, or bandied on the lips of counsel. He may

have been innocent of any knowledge of, or participation
in, Lewis Maulford's schemes, although his
office had been used by that gentleman as a base of
operations.

Miss Penrith has taken up her permanent abode
in one of the most commanding terraces that overlook
Plymouth Hoe. From that altitude, as from a
citadel, she surveys a world which is not worthy of
her, and provides tea, toast, and other light refreshments
for a select and evangelical few every Tuesday
evening at eight.

Mrs. Trevornock still retains the cottage at
Camberwell, though the greater part of her life is
spent at Place, where her grandchildren adore her,
and where she is as dear to her daughter's husband
and as popular with the entire household as if the
name of mother-in-law had never been made a word
of fear.

The Camberwell home is a pleasant shelter for
Mark and Flossie when they give themselves a fortnight's
holiday in London, and go the round of the
West-end theatres. Barbara and her children sometimes
visit there, and sit in the old wicker chairs on

the lawn, which seems so small to eyes accustomed
to the wide lawns and winding shrubbery walks at
Place. But it is grand mamma's garden, and, as
such, has a certain dignity and distinction in the
children's eyes, to say nothing of the greater liberty
for mischief which they enjoy here, where there is
no stern Scotch gardener to complain of their depredations,
or to bewail the havoc they make.

The lilies of the valley bloom and multiply above
the spot where Barbara buried her love-letters, and
no one knows of the broken story they cover. In
every life, even that which seems brightest and
fairest, there is some such grave where dead hopes
and unfulfilled dreams lie buried.

