CHAPTER

I. FATHER AND DAUGHTER .

' II. MOTHER AND SON

. HI. SUNSHINE AND SHADE
,

 IV. THE SHADOW ON THE WALL .
V. THE SHADOW DEEPENS
VI. ON THE BRINK
 VIL ACROSS THE DARK RIVER .
viii. A LONG FAREWELL .
I IX. NOT AN UNCOMMON CASE
 X. THE NEW HOME

 XL CASTLE BUILDING

rO

 Nit. BARBARA FINDS A FRIEND

C| Xii THE FATES SPIN THEIR THREAD

 XIV. ROGER MAKES UP HIS MIND .

5
<o

:5 XV. TOO LATE

I






III










;yl;;;ii7\Von &Viaey,Umlted London and Aylesbury

CONTENTS,

VOL. I.

CHAPTER

I. FATHER AND DAUGHTER .
' n. MOTHER AND SON
r in. SUNSHINE AND SHADE
4r- IV. THE SHADOW ON THE WALL
V. THE SHADOW DEEPENS
VL ON THE BRINK .
 VH. ACROSS THE DARK RIVER .
viii. A LONG FAREWELL .
I IX. NOT AN UNCOMMON CASE

 X. THE NEW HOME

if)

 XL CASTLE BUILDING
en

 Nil BARBARA FINDS A FRIEND

Qg XIII. THE FATES SPIN THEIR THREAD
 XIV. ROGER MAKES UP HIS MIND
> XV. TOO LATE

I








III










FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

It was a lovely June evening, some twelve
years ago. The sun had set, leaving a rich,
mellow glow in the sky ; and upon the delicate
background all objects stood out in strong relief.
The scene was one familiar to English eyes 
an English country home  a rectory house,
old-fashioned, square, built of brick, but with
the crude colour of the brick toned down by
washes of softer tints. Taken alone, its outlines
were undeniably ugly ; but age and
creepers, with moss-grown corners and crevices,
gave it a loveliness which the most perfect of
newly-finished architecture could not claim  a
loveliness which spoke of domestic history and
home.

A pleasant garden, with smooth lawns and

VOL. I. I

tall, shady trees, surrounded the old house.
Divided from it by a road stood the venerable
church, whose tower and spire, either from the
crumbling incident to old age, or from a fault
in their original construction, seemed unable
to support the burden laid upon them, and
trembled ominously as the bells rang loud and
cheerily. For it was the weekly practising
night, and the men of Belton were proud of
their bells, and no less proud of their skill and
reputation, sparing no pains to let the world
hear both.

Stretching northwards, the road soon became
the village street, near enough for children's
shouts and laughter to be borne upon the
evening air, such time as the softer modulations
or dropping of the bells permitted other sounds
to be heard. The bells were somewhat deafening
in the rectory garden, but the only person
to be seen there this evening would have indignantly
denied such a suggestion had any one
ventured to make it in her presence.

From one of the stiff, square windows, steps
led down to the garden path ; and on the steps
sat a young girl, with a big Newfoundland dog
at her side. Her white dress and crimson

ribbons looked all the brighter when contrasted
with the gloom of the oak-panelled room
behind. So did her fair hair and fresh, young
complexion. She had no strict claims to beauty ;
but hers was an interesting and sympathetic
face, with eyes and mouth ever ready to weep
or smile. Perhaps her most characteristic feature
was the delicate nose, slightly retroussd,
and lending to her whole countenance a charming
air of piquancy. For the rest, she was tall,
with a graceful, supple figure ; and the arm
which she had thrown across her companion's
neck was white and rounded.

Just now smiles were rippling over the girl's
bright .face, and her joyous laughter rang in
unison with the merry bells, as she teased her
big dog with many a quaint gesture of hand
and face, talking to him after a somewhat
childish fashion for a maiden of eighteen
summers.

'you stupid old Rover!" she said, 'why
can't you laugh too, and enjoy a good joke,
instead of being such a dear, solemn old
thing!"

But solemn he remained, with a dignity that
rebuked her levity, as he sat upright on his

haunches, and from time to time flopped his
heavy tail on the stone steps, with an air of
condescension that resembled a staid, elderly
person permitting the gambols of some frolicsome
child.

Presently there was a firm tread on the
gravel path, and a man came up to the girl's
side, and stood, with an amused smile, looking
down on her and the dog. The clanging
and crashing of the bells were at their loudest ;
the ringers were giving out their final peal,
which, with the girl's own talk and laughter,
prevented her from hearing the approaching
footsteps.

What is the subtle cause of certain associations
fixing themselves indelibly in the mind ? Why
was it that in after years this man seldom heard
the same pealing bells without vividly recalling
the girl as he saw her then  in all her bright,
glad youth, and before a single serious trouble
had left its shadow on her face ?

The bells dropped with one or two lingering
clangs ; the distant voices from the village, and
the rasping croak of a corncrake in the neighbouring
field, suddenly became audible in the
stillness of the summer evening ; the spell was

broken; the girl quickly turned her head, saw
the new comer, and, placing her hand in his,
spoke some words of greeting.

The face on which she looked was a pleasant
one, with broad brow and honest, handsome,
deep blue eyes ; a face which would
instantly inspire confidence in woman or child.
The man was of middle height, broad-shouldered
and strongly built, apparently some thirty years
of age. He wore a rough shooting suit, while
a fishing-basket, which was Slung over his
shoulder, and a rod in his left hand, bore
witness to his recent occupation.

Good evening, Kate," he responded to her
welcome, as he seated himself on the stone
step. Then, when he had laid down the basket
and rod with the air of a man quite at home,
he looked up at her with a mischievous, smile,
and remarked, 

'' Idling again ? "

What do you mean, Roger, by your ' idling
again ' ? " she answered, somewhat indignantly.
*' I am not idling at all "  this emphasized by
a stamp of her little foot. " I am only resting
after a very hard day's work."

Roger laughed, and said, 

** Well, Kate, tell us what a hard day's work
means in your vocabulary ?"

** Yes, I will ; and I am sure It has been
quite as fully occupied as any day of yours.
To begin, I got up early. Yes, really and
truly early," she repeated, as Roger laughed
once more ; 'rand I meant to have read a double
portion of history, because Mrs. Stephens scolded
me dreadfully about forgetting It yesterday ;
then, unfortunately, I had left the book downstairs
; and the' morning was so lovely that it
tempted me to run out-of-doors. Rover came
too, and we went round the garden, and saw
all the cows and horses, which made the time
pass so quickly that breakfast was ready when
we came In. You know father always likes to
linger over breakfast, and there only remained
time to fill the flower vases before eleven o'clock
service. After that I ran into the school for a
few minutes ; then there was Mrs. Bertram's
new baby to visit  such a little darling ! The
poor woman had nothing nice to eat, and I
came home to fetch some broth from Mantle.
As I returned the second time, Mrs. Lambert
stopped me with one of her fearfully long stories.
Poor thing!" Kate went on, sympathetically,

*' she really has a great many troubles, although
she takes a long time to tell them. To-day I
could not wait to hear everything she had to
tell, because I knew father would be expecting
me. After luncheon I really meant to have
read and practised ; but when going upstairs
I caught sight of the hatfield through the
passage window, and I had not been there
once. Just think of that, Roger ! "

True self-denial," said he ; ' but go on."
*' Weil, no sooner thought of than done,"
continued Kate. " It was no fun going into the
hay all alone, so I ran across to Mrs. Cuthbert's,
and found the poor woman up to her eyes in
work. She is letting some of her rooms to
lodgers for the summer, and was busy preparing
for them. She said Dr. Cuthbert would be put
out if the house were not in something like
order when he came home. So she was only
too thankful to let me take the children, and
keep the nurse to put things straight. After
that we had a glorious afternoon in the hatfield.
Mamsie brought us tea there, and father came
to sit with us. It was seven o'clock when I
took the children back and I really feel quite
tired." With this Kate settled herself against

the window frame, in an attitude of greater
repose.

No wonder," said Roger, who had watched
her as if the face that looked so much in earnest
over all she said were sweet to gaze upon,
and as if the tones of her fresh young voice
were pleasant to his ears. " But where is
your father ? " he added.

Just inside," replied Kate, " writing ; but it
is too dark ; " and she leaned back, crying,
Father, Roger .is here. Put down your
writing, and come to us. It is such a glorious
evening, and Mamsie will bring tea in a
minute."

'eyes, my dear," answered a voice from
within the room " I will come directly."

'' I quite forgot to ask where you have been,
and if you want any dinner," said Kate, turning
again to Roger.

I have been at the Mill Pool, and dined
before going there," he replied. " My mother
likes an early dinner in summer-time ; she says
it reminds her of the days when she was young,
and when people kept reasonable hours. I
came here because I thought some of Mrs.
Vale's excellent tea and cakes would be acceptable

before walking home. I told my mother
I should bring the rector some fish if I caught
any."

'well! and what have you caught?" she
asked.

'' A good many weeds and one pike  a fish
which I think your father likes."

'' Do you, father ? " said Kate, as she laid
her cheek caressingly upon a delicate though
withered hand now resting on her shoulder.

I am sure I don't ; they are full of such
horrid little bones."

Good evening. Rector," said Roger, rising
courteously, and taking the proffered hand of a
tall, handsome old man who stood at the open
window.

Good evening, Roger," was the answer,
given with a pleasant smile of welcome. " Have
you been scolding my little daughter here for
her butterfly existence ? "

'' No, he has not done so yet," Interposed
Kate, " but I know by the look on his face
that he has the intention when he gets a chance.
He and Mrs. Stephens are both too bad  he
always lecturing me about anything and everything
; and she always urging me to Improve

myself  to read, to work, to draw, to practise ;
and I don't believe the pair of them ever dome
the least bit of good ; not half so much as
you, father dear, who never lecture me ; " and
she gave his hand another loving pressure.

'' Well," said Roger, '' at least you bear us no
malice. When is the day that you don't go to
Mrs. Stephens (of your own free will) to be
improved ? "

I have not been to-day, sir, for one," said
Kate, laughing.

'* For some very good reason, I expect,"
retorted Roger.

*well," admitted Kate, 'she certainly did
go to Roster for the day to shop, and to meet
some friends."

Roger was laughing at her lame defence
when they were interrupted by the opening of
the room door to admit a servant, who came
forward with all the freedom belonging to a
privileged domestic. She was a tall and angular
woman, with features strongly marked, and
decidedly plain. Her dress was black, and
very neat ; and on her smooth dark hair she
wore a small cap, trimmed with lavender-coloured
ribbons, long streamers of which were

floating behind. A white fleecy wrap hung
upon her arm.

" Excuse me, sir," she said, 'but at this time
of the evening, after running about all day in
the hot sun, Miss Kate must not be sitting
there without something over her shoulders."

So saying, and unheeding Kate's playful
remonstrance, " Oh, you fussy, tiresome
Mamsie ! " she placed the wrap around her
nursling with more gentle and loving care than
her appearance, at first sight, would have
suggested.

'' And, my dear," she continued, '' Patty
wants to know, do you wish to have the tea
brought here, or to the drawing-room ? "

'' Here, by all means," replied the girl. '' It
is too delicious to move."

'* Good evening, Mrs. Vale," said Roger.
"" Pray remember to send us some of your cakes
with the tea ; I have come here on purpose to
eat them ; for I never taste any others half so
good."

The old servant dropped a stiff old-fashioned
curtsey, and, smiling, not ill-pleased at the
compliment, she said, 

'' Thank you kindly, sir ; and though I say

it who shouldn't, I believe they are better than
are mostly made nowadays. And may I make
so bold as to ask how Madam North is
to-day ?"

'' Quite well, thank you," answered Roger.
By the way, she asked me to say she would
call at three o'clock tomorrow, about the clothing
club, I think, if you were likely to be in."

Mrs. Vale replied in the affirmative, and left
the room. Soon Patty came, bringing the tea
and cakes, which she placed on a lite table by
the open window.

Kate attended to the wants of her two companions
before reseating herself on the steps,
where she placed a plate of cakes by her side,
and within Roger's easy reach.

All this time Rover had watched the proceedings
with great impatience and watering
mouth ; but now it was his turn to be
attended to, and he was liberally feasted.

Kate was giving him a third cake when she
looked gravely at Roger, and remarked, 

I don't know which of you two R's, Roger
or Rover, likes cake best. I never saw a man
of your age so fond of cake. I wonder what
the reason is ? "

'' Perhaps because I don't smoke," he
replied.

*rand why don't you smoke?" she asked.
'' I have often wondered why. Most men do.
Don't you Hke it ? "

'' Oh, yes," said Roger, simply, " I like it
well enough, and used to smoke a good deal at
Oxford ; but my mother dislikes it in the house,
and even the smell on my clothes. I tried at
first to smoke in the open air, but she always
found me out. It was not worth while annoying
her about it, and so I gave it up."

Oh ! " ejaculated Kate, with a significant
look and tone, conveying a meaning beyond
that which the little word itself expressed.

Mr. Galbraith now joined in the conversation
with a remark concerning some of his parishioners,
who were also Roger North's tenants ;
and the three sat on, enjoying the delicious
evening coolness. Sometimes they talked,
sometimes they were silent ; but in either
case, there was that perfect want of gate
which showed them to be frequent and Intimate
companions.

At last Roger looked at his watch. It was
past ten; he must linger no longer. Still there

were a few more parting words before he bid
them good-night, and walked rapidly away.

The two watched him until he passed out of
sight along the garden path.

Poor fellow ! What a frigid reception he
will get for having stayed here so late," said
Kate, with a quaint expression of pity.

Then father and daughter went in-doors, and
Rover remained alone outside, The old dog
stretched himself on the gravelly path, luxuriating
in the warm night air; and then he fell
asleep, to dream, perchance, of his next feast
off Mrs. Vale's good cakes. An hour later, no
lights were burning in the house, save in the
rector's study. It was his usual habit to sit
long and late over his books and papers; but
to-night he could not chain his wandering
thoughts to the work before him. At first
he made an effort to do so, until finding it to
be without success, he leant back in his chair,
and fell into a reverie.

There are times when the strongest succumb
to a power which seems to be outside themselves,
and beyond their own control. Then
they have nor will nor strength to thrust away
the thoughts which are presented to them. At

such times ghosts of the past rise up with a
startling realism ; and they seem to live once
more in days and scenes which have lain long
years dormant in their memory.

Thus it was with Mr. Galbraith. He tried
to free himself from the mysterious influences
which crept upon his senses. He rose, walked
to the window, and looked out upon the calm,
starry night. But it was in vain  the spell was
on him ; and, returning to his chair, he yielded
to its promptings.

One by one the forms which had been
familiar in that very room returned  not
spirit-like, but as in very flesh and blood. He
lived again the time when, as a man in the
prime of life, he brought his bride to this same
old rectory, and joyfully showed her the dark,
oak-panelled study where she was to bring light
and gladness to shine upon him as he laboured.
He realised afresh how, little by little, that
sweet dream of loving companionship had died
away.

His bride was beautiful, but cold as the sculptured
marble her chiselled features so closely
resembled ; and beneath that fair exterior he
possessed no power to penetrate. Fewer and

fewer were her visits to the study ; and more
and more he sought for consolation In his
books  rarely leaving them, save to answer the
calls of duty In his parish. After a time, there
was a laughing, merry child, who ran in and
out of his dark room, bringing sunshine to
the father's wounded heart  his little daughter
Mary, who seemed the only link between him
and his cold, beautiful wife.

Gradually that wife's fair cheek grew thin
and wan ; and at last the day came when he
knelt by her bedside, and listened to her dying
words. " Forgive me," she whispered. " I
wronged you when I married you. My heart
was given to another. I thought I was strong
enough to kill my love, but it has ended by
killing me. I leave you our little child ; may
she grow to take the place I should have
filled ; or may you find another to love you
as I could not."

Mary's was the only face that haunted the
study until she grew to be twelve years old.
But the soul of the man still yearned for a
sympathy and companionship which were beyond
her power to give.

At last these came.

A visit to a college friend, of which everyday
and hour stood out clear and strong in
his faithful memory, brought him to know that
friend's young sister. And the man of nigh
fifty years experienced a love which startled
him by its intensity. This time his love was
returned with all the strength of a true woman's
pure devotion ; and once more he brought a
bride to that old house, and the longing of
his heart for love and sympathy was more
than satisfied.

But, alas ! for all too short a time. Kate
was born to be another sunbeam in the noonday
of their happiness, then a second child 
and child and fair young mother were laid
together in the old churchyard.

For a time Mary and the little Kate  the
darling of her father's heart  came and went,
brightening the old study. At last, in early
womanhood, Mary left her father's roof, with his
blessing following her to distant lands, whither
she went to share the fortunes of her husband.

And now, for ten summers, Kate alone had
gladdened his declining years ; and soothed,
though not quenched, the longing for what
had been.

VOL. I. %

Such were the memories which crowded
through the rector's mind as he dreamed
hour after hour. The clock in the old church-tower
struck one  struck two  in tones that
sounded solemnly in the stillness of the night.
At last the old man rose. But one of the
figures in his reverie must still have lingered
by him when he fell asleep, for he did so,
softly breathing, "Not long now, darling, not
long now."

And the stars, which shone down upon the
sleeping world, were not more pure and bright
than were the visions, which came to him in
dreams, of the young wife he had loved so
dearly and lost so soon.

MOTHER AND SON.

Roger's walk home was not a long one. The
distance between the village of Belton and
Belton Hall was but little over a mile even
along the road, and by the way he went it
was somewhat less. At first he followed a
path leading across the fields, and vaulted
actively over stiles which were apparently
constructed to cause difficulty and vexation to
the aged or stout. Then he turned from
the beaten track, took a short cut, and leaping
a fence, was in the park which surrounded
his house.

The walk was pleasant in the summer
twilight. The air was sweet with the scent
of new-mown hay. Dog-roses, honeysuckle,
and many other hedge-row flowers gave out
their delicate perfume ; for the neighbourhood
was one which could boast of the luxurious

growth of every kind of wild-flower. Yet,
four miles north of Belton, a low range of
hills formed the dividing line between this and
a very different landscape ; for behind it lay
one of England's vast workshops, known in
common parlance by the appropriate name of
"the Black Country." During the daytime
there was little to remind the more fortunate
inhabitants to the south of their comparatively
near neighbours, who lived in their colourless
world  all grey and black, without a growing
tree or blade of green grass to relieve the
weary eye. But at night the furnaces of
Vulcan cast a glow upon the sky, which was
faintly visible even in clear moonlight, and in
the darkness of winter was red and lowering,
telling of ceaseless noise and toil. To the
south and west of Belton lovers of nature
could turn with greater pleasure, for there lay
a lovely English country, with a fair extent
of hill and vale, richly wooded and well
watered.

Little of this last was visible, as Roger trod
rapidly homewards, but had it been broadest
daylight he would not have noticed his surroundings
; for he was in deep thought. Pleasant

thought it seemed to be, judged by the
smile which parted his Hps, and the bright,
glad light in his eyes. And so in truth it was,
for he was busily maturing plans for a summer
excursion among the lovely haunts well known
to anglers, in North Wales. The excursion
that he meditated was no solitary ramble, but
one in which Kate and her father were to have
a share. On three or four previous occasions
they had made similar expeditions ; staying at
picturesque country inns, and spending their
days fishing beside the streams, or in long
rides and drives to different points of interest.
He had not mentioned his plan to the rector,
but he intended to do so at the earliest opportunity
; and it was the memory of past excursions,
and the anticipation of similar or greater
pleasure from the one he had now in view,
which shone so brightly on his face.

Roger had a keen love for outdoor sports,
and his love of angling was shared by the
studious rector. Both had been constant
companions by stream and pool since Roger's
father inherited the Belton property from an
elder brother, some thirteen years before the
present time. Soon Kate began to accompany

them, and it was hard to say which of the three
most enjoyed the gentle sport. Nor was it
alone when fishing that the young man and the
little girl had enjoyed each other's companionship.
For Roger had taught Kate to skate,
sand given her many a riding lesson as she
cantered on her little pony, by the side of his
hunter, along the lovely Rostershire lanes. He
would willingly have taken her out with the
hounds, but this the rector would not permit.
But when Kate was quite a little girl he had
been in the habit of taking her out shooting,
until a new governess at the rectory had threatened
to throw up her charge unless the custom
were discontinued.

Small wonder then that, with neither brother
nor sister of his own, Roger should have come
to regard every pleasure as incomplete which
was not shared by Kate ; small wonder that he
should be so absorbed in plans which he knew
would give her pleasure ; or that, rousing himself
as from a dream, he awoke to find that he
had arrived at the end of his walk, and was in
the terraced garden which surrounded his home.

The house was built in the modern Elizabethan
style, with deep and mullions bay windows.

It was of that comfortable size so frequently to
be found among English country houses  large
enough for comfort, but not too large for the
air of home to pervade each corner.

As Roger passed on to the entrance door,
he noticed lights from the drawing-room windows,
which told him that his mother was still
there. He laid his fishing-tackle down upon
a billiard-table that stood In the centre of an
inner hall, and went to her at once.

A little of the sunshine died from his face ashe
opened the door, and entered the lofty and
well-proportioned room.

Its sole occupant was a lady, sitting upright
In an armchair by the fireplace. A half-knitted
stocking was on her lap, and a book and open
letter lay on a table at her elbow ; but her
thoughts were apparently busy with other things.
She seemed some sixty years of age, tall and
thin, and might have been handsome once, but
all that remained was a somewhat hard-featured
face, which had been deeply furrowed by anxiety
and sorrow at some earlier period of her life.
There was not a trace about her of those little
feminine touches of soft colour and delicate lace,
by which women most allowably tone down the

ravages of time. Her dress was of black silk
of good quality, but made in the plainest
manner  with white collar and cuffs, and her
yet dark hair was partially concealed by a cap
not exactly a widow's cap, but of a style
which only a widow would wear.

The room was a reflection of her person.
Its furniture and hangings were rich and handsome
; some good paintings in water-colours
hung upon the walls ; but the ornaments, though
costly in themselves, showed no sign of the
presiding taste of a mistress in their arrangement
on chimney-piece, cabinet, and consol-table.
All seemed placed formally and accurately
as by the hand of a careful servant.
None of the little knickknacks dear to the heart
of most womenkind were to be found; no small
tables, antique lace, or bits of china intruded
themselves upon the symmetrical regularity.
Except for the fact that there was a lady sitting
in the room with book and work, it looked as
if never used, unless on state occasions, or for
formal calls or dinner-parties.

Mrs. North looked towards the door as her
son entered.

You are late, Roger," she said, coldly.

*' Yes, mother. I stayed rather longer talking
at the rectory than 1 intended. I am sorry
if you have sat up for me."

''I have been waiting, because I wished to
speak to you," replied Mrs. North ; '* but first
ring the bell, and I will tell Martin that he can
close the house."

Roger complied with his mother's request,
seated himself on the opposite side of the fireplace,
and took up a paper, as he saw that she
did not intend to commence the conversation
until they were secure from the chances of
interruption.

The bell was answered by a grey-headed
butler and a somewhat ancient footman in
livery. Mrs. North gave her orders for the
night in a few brief words, and took up her
knitting, while the servants shut the windows
and closed the shutters. Before retiring, the
butler asked if his master had any further
orders.

"Nothing, thank you, Martin," he replied
except a lamp in the study."

When Roger and his mother were alone, the
former laid down his paper, and said pleasantly

Well, mother, what have you to tell me ? "

'* I will not detain you long, Roger ; but I
had a letter this afternoon from your cousin
Constance, and I wished to speak to you about
it. You will remember that I told you a few
days ago that I was writing to ask her to come
to Belton on her way to Scotland?"

Roger had forgotten, and he suppressed a
sigh as the thought struck him that this visit
might interfere with the fishing expedition, of
which his mind had been so full when walking
home.

Mrs. North took up the letter which lay by
her side, and, referring to it, she continued :
Constance tells me that her father is taking
a house for the Goodwood week, and that they
are inviting a large party of friends to join
them ; therefore she cannot come here before
the 28th or 29th of July. She adds that she is
sorry that this arrangement will make her visita
short one, because Sir John has quite set his
mind on you and 1 being with them in Scotland
for the 1 eth, and she suggests that we can all
travel together ; starting not later than the 9th
or loth."

Had Mrs. North glanced at her son, she
would have seen anything but a pleased expression

on his countenance ; but she was turning
to the last page of her niece's letter, and presently
continued : 

Constance concludes with a message for you :
' Give my love to Roger, and tell him that my
father begs he will excuse a formal invitation,
because he is too busy to write himself ; he
looks forward to Roger being of our party at
Goodwood, and hopes he will come to town intime
to go down with us. You may tell Roger
from me that I will send him to Coventry,
when I come to Belton, if he refuses.' "

Mrs. North folded the letter, and looked at
her son.

I really cannot go, mother," he exclaimed,
impetuously. " I am a regular fish out of water
among all those fine ladies."

May I ask if you have been making any
other plans for the summer?" inquired Mrs.
North, frigidly.

The colour mounted to Roger's face, but he
answered frankly :

'' To tell the truth, I had been thinking of a
fishing expedition with the rector to the Vale
of Llangollen, which is much more in my line,
as you know."

'' Is Kate to be of the party ? "

*' Of course."

'' 'Of course,' " echoed Mrs. North. '' But If
you are bent upon this scheme, why should you
not do both ? "

It was with an effort that the mother made
even this concession, and she watched him
keenly to see what effect it would have.

Roger did not answer immediately ; he stood
leaning his elbow on the chimney-piece, and
resting his head upon his hand ; looking musingly
down on the housemaid's prim and
inartistic decorations in the grate. After a
few minutes spent In consideration, he spoke.

It is impossible to do both. I know the
rector cannot leave home until the last week
in July, and I proposed to join you In Scotland
direct from Wales."

A frown of displeasure came over Mrs.
North's face, and she said, 

"You surely cannot mean to treat your cousin
with such disregard, and allow her to come
here on a visit to find her host absent ! particularly
since she has put herself to some
inconvenience and refused several invitations
In order to accept this one."

Roger checked, by a strong effort, the words
which were rising to his lips  words to the
effect of nothing being further from his wishes
and intentions than that any such sacrifice on
his account should be made by his cousin. In
truth, if he had thought about the matter since
his mother had first mentioned it, his thoughts
had taken the form of a hope that Constance's
many engagements would prevent her from
paying a visit to Belton. He turned the matter
over in his mind for a minute or two, and then
replied, 

'' Of course, my dear mother, as Constance is
coming I will not be absent. How would it
be," he continued, his face brightening, *' for you
to go with her to Scotland, and for me to follow
after a week's fishing ? "

Mrs. North's countenance had cleared a little,
but his concluding suggestion did not appear to
please her.

"Your uncle would be much offended, and
justly, Roger," she said, " If you are not thereon
the 1 eth; and I cannot conceive why you
should prefer fishing In Wales to such grouse-shooting
as he can offer. You must not think
of such a thing ; especially If you have made

Up your mind to refuse this invitation to
Goodwood."

*' At least don't press me to go to Goodwood,
mother. I have been at the Erskine' once this
season  more to please you than myself  and
I don't wish to be a victim a second time. We
shall have quite enough of fine company during
our Scotch visits ; it is bearable there, as one
has not to be dressed like a tailor's model ; and
the pure air of the moors seems to have the
happy effect of making everybody a little more
natural."

Mrs. North remained silent, but with an
expression which her son knew he could not
remove without yielding to her wishes. He
left the fire-place, and paced the room once or
twice while he again revolved the matter in his
mind. He tried in vain to find a middle course
between giving up his own plans and displeasing
his mother. " Luckily," he thought, '' I have
not mentioned the fishing scheme to Kate ; she
will be spared the disappointment any way. It
is after all only my own pleasure that will be
affected. Well ! there is an end of that castle in
the air." He gave a slight sigh, and came to
Mrs. North's side.

'all right, mother," he said, in his usual
cheery tone; "it shall be as you wish  the
fishing expedition shall go to the wall. I will try
to do my duty as host when a young lady like
Constance condescends to visit us ; and I will
escort you both to Annick Castle whenever it
pleases you to go. As to Goodwood, I will
write my apologies tomorrow."

His mother saw that, having gained her chief
point, she had better drop further persuasion
on the subject of Goodwood. Although she
believed Roger to be easily led, she hesitated
instinctively from pushing him too far. She
had long cherished a wish that Constance
should become her son's wife. Constance was
the only daughter of a sister, whose husband,
Sir John Erskine, was a wealthy man, and
who could well afford to richly dower his
daughter, without interfering with the prospects
of two older sons. Mrs. North was influenced
by this consideration quite as much as by
affection for her niece ; though, strangely
enough, she was very fond of the girl, who was
in every way a contrast to herself. The desire
to throw Roger and Constance more closely
together had been the mainspring of her plans

for the ensuing summer. Of late, too, she had
begun to look upon his intimacy with Kate
Galbraith as a possible source of danger. She
had every reason to be gratified by her success
when the fishing party was given up, and
Constance's visit to the Hall secured. Her
voice had, therefore, a more gracious tone
when she continued 

'' Very well, Roger; and now it only remains
for me to tell you that I think the time of
Constance's visit would afford a good opportunity
for returning the hospitalities of our
neighbours. What do you say to a garden
party ? "

** And a dance in the evening," said Roger, as
the thought flashed through his mind that Kate
would greatly enjoy such a piece of gaiety.
"It will be the easiest thing in the world to
turn out the music-room for an occasion of that
sort, and the parquetry floor is just made for it."

"Very well, if you wish it," replied his
mother, ignorant of the motive which inspired
him. " We will talk over the details tomorrow.
It is getting late now."

Roger kissed his mother affectionately when
they parted for the night ; and she, pleased

with his acquiescence to her wishes, returned
his caress with a slight relaxation from her
usual coldness. Then, when she had gone,
with her stately, measured step, up the wide
oak staircase and out of sight along the corridor,
he walked thoughtfully to another part of the
house, and entered his special sanctum  the
study, as it was called, for want of a better
name. The principal part of the furniture was
that which Roger had used in his rooms at
college. There were also some well-filled bookshelves,
a few pictures and photographs on the
walls ; whilst a large escritoire, scattered with
papers and writing materials, showed that
business was transacted within its precincts.
Guns, whips, and fishing gear were in profusion,
and filled every spare corner. A collection of
pipes was conspicuous over the mantelpiece,
for though Roger himself refrained from
smoking, he insisted that his friends should
not be forced to imitate his voluntary self-denial.


The lamp on a centre table was burning low
when Roger entered ; he turned it up, and the
light fell brightly on an open map and books.
This recalled at once his interrupted Welsh

VOL. I. 3

excursion, as he had been studying these same
guide-books and map in* the morning ; and had
ordered a light to the room for the purpose of
continuing his study before retiring to rest.
Now they were no longer wanted ; so with one
last pang of regret he collected them together,
and returned them to the book-shelves.

Many of his intimates looked upon Roger's
habitual deference to his mother's wishes as a
symptom of amiable weakness. Even Mrs.
North secretly shared this feeling, and believed
that her son inherited the disposition of his
father, who had been a singularly weak, though
amiable, man. She little dreamed of a day to
come, when events would prove the mistake
she had made in thus estimating her son's
character. The true cause of his yielding to
her wishes in everything which did not involve
principle was to be found in an intensely
grateful and unselfish nature. In his boyhood
the family circumstances had been very different
to those which he and his mother now
enjoyed. His father. Colonel North, was a
younger son, who had joined the army, and,
easily led away by the many temptations which
it offered, had contrived to squander a great

part of his means, which were none too large
even to commence with. At this crisis,
Mrs. North had taken all money matters into
her own hands, thus saving her husband and
family from falling into comparative poverty.
From the earliest time that Roger could
remember he had seen his mother denying
herself for the sake of the education and
advancement in life of his brothers and himself.
For there had been two elder brothers,
who, thanks to their mother's exertions, had
entered the army. Both were called to active
service, and both fell amidst bloody and terrible
scenes  one before Sebastopol, the other a
year later, at the commencement of the Indian
Mutiny. Roger was a school-boy at the time,
and recollected with awe his mother's wild
agony at these succeeding bereavements. He
remembered, too, how, when the first terrible
shock was over, she had suppressed all outward
signs of suffering, and had once more
attended to the material wants of his father
and himself with the same assiduous care
and self-denial as before. Until that date his
boyish wish had been to follow the career of
his father and brothers, but he put it aside

with the firm resolve that he would repay his
mother by personal love and devotion for all
she had done and suffered. He never even
expressed a wish to enter the army, and when
he found that she was planning for him to goto
college and the Bar, he acceded so willingly
that she believed it to be his own desire.

The mother was preparing to make still
further retrenchments, in order to provide for
her son's career, when Colonel North's elder
brother died, childless ; and from henceforth
money cares were at an end. Colonel North
only lived one year in the enjoyment of his
new prosperity, and then the estates passed to
Roger. But his mother continued to manage
them until he finally left Oxford and settled
at home. From that time he managed the
property himself, leaving household and garden
entirely under her control.

His college career had been respectable,
although not brilliant. His love of study had
to contend with an equal love for boating and
all out-door sports ; nor was he one of those
geniuses who could excel in both. Still the
years he passed at college proved very beneficial,
as his character impelled him to make

friends among those to whom he could lookup,
either on account of their intellectual or
moral superiority. He would have preferred
a more stirring life than his country home
offered, but his duty lay there, and he responded
to its call with heart and soul.
Fortunately for him, his uncle had spent large
sums of money on the house and grounds,
but had neglected all other improvements on
the property. Hence Roger found congenial
work in improving his farms and cottages,
though, naturally, this somewhat hampered his
means for a few years. He also took an
active part in county business, and was often
surprised and gratified to find his opinion
asked and his advice adopted by men, his
equals in station, but of double his years and
experience.

Among his tenantry and humbler neighbours
his genial manner and ready sympathy made
him a universal favourite, so that there was
no inhabitant of Belton who did not speak of
him, with all the pride of possession, as 'your
young Squire."

SUNSHINE AND SHADE.

The rain was falling steadily in big, heavy
drops ; beautiful summer rain, accompanied by
no rough wind to blow and bluster, and overpower
the sound of its gentle patter on the
grateful leaves.

A remarkably fine spell of summer weather
had enabled all prompt and active farmers to
harvest their hay crop, and laggards alone were
grumbling at their ill-luck when they might,
with a greater show of reason, have blamed
their own dilatoriness. But whatever that
proverbial grumbler, the farmer, might do, all
nature was rejoicing in the rain which had
come with the second week in July. Vegetation
seemed, as by a miracle, to regain its
earlier summer freshness ; and a grateful earth
sent up the sweet aroma, which is her incense
of thanksgiving.

The village street of Belton  so light and
dusty only the day before  was now dark and
moist, with little streams of water rushing and
bubbling along the gutters. The irregular
roofs of the houses  some tall, some low, some
modern, and some of ancient date  were wet
and shining ; and the dripping from their eaves
added to the sound of falling water. The
downpour had banished all idlers from the
street. Early in the morning the rector had
driven through Belton on his way to one of
the neighbouring railway-stations ; and during
the day a few improvident housewives, having
suddenly discovered some household want,
might have been seen  protected by cloak
and umbrella  hurrying to one or other of
the village shops ; a loaded cart, with horses
and men well drenched, passed from time to
time ; and these, with the few whose business
obliged them to face the rain, completed the
total list of the passers-by. The only hours
when there was any noise and clatter were
those which marked the opening and dismissal
of the village school, and even then they were
less than usual, and more quickly over, for the
children hurried homewards to escape the wet.

Early in the afternoon, Mrs. Vale came
briskly out of the rectory gate, a basket on
her arm. She had been summoned to the sickbed
of a poor woman, and it would have been
wild weather that could have stopped her kind
feet from hastening to perform a deed of mercy.
Mr. Galbraith had a curate, as the parish was
large, and, moreover, two services were held
each Sunday in a chapel-offense some four miles
distant, as well as in the parish church ; but the
poor folks were in the habit of saying, '' Ah !
give us Mrs. Vale, she's as good as two curates."
And truly she was the rector's right hand.
Twenty years before, when Mr. Galbraith had
brought his young wife to her new home,
Mrs. Vale had accompanied them ; and when
her beloved mistress was laid in an early
grave, the faithful servant had quietly and altogether
devoted herself to her master, his children,
and the parish. The housekeeping had been
entrusted to her from the first, though for a
short time Mary Galbraith had undertaken a
share of it. When the latter married, the
devoted nurse felt it to be one of her greater
duties to supply a mother's place to little Kate,
and she had a reward in the love and esteem

all showed towards her. But, perhaps, there
was no sweeter sound to the woman who
would never have a child of her own than
that of Kate's loving voice, calling her " dear
Mamsie."

On this wet afternoon, at the hour when
Mrs. Vale went forth, Kate was standing
somewhat disconsolately by the drawing-room
window, looking upon the failing rain.

She had taken advantage of the wet day to
work up arrears in practising, and other tasks
for the masters, who came weekly from the
neighbouring county towns to give her lessons.
That done, she had wished to accompany Mrs.
Vale, but for reasons of her own the old nurse
had said '' No " ; and though Kate was somewhat
wilful with most people, she had been
accustomed to obey that '' No" from earliest
Infancy.

When fine weather prevailed, it was hard to
keep Kate Indoors. The day she had described
to Roger was a fair specimen of her usual life.
She was intimately acquainted with every man,
woman, and child in her father's parish ; their
histories, and most of their joys and sorrows,
were known to her. So it was not strange that

a day rarely passed without some call for her
presence and sympathy. Then came visits to
the schools, and rides with her father to the
homes of more distant parishioners.

This state of things had been going on almost
ever since Kate could remember, and had sadly
interfered with the regularity of her education.
A succession of governesses had thrown up
their task in despair. With some she had
laughed and played, and then both governess
and pupil were idle together. Others who were
stricter, and perhaps more conscientious, had
brought tears to her eyes, but did not succeed
in adding much to her store of knowledge.

When Kate was sixteen, school had been
tried at the instigation of Mrs. Stephens, who
was the rector's prime adviser in all matters
referring to his daughter's education. But the
scheme turned out a lamentable failure ; the
first holidays brought her home for good, as
she and her father had been equally miserable
during their separation.

Kate left the window at last, and looked
round in search of some congenial occupation.
Her work-basket was open on the table, with a
baby's frock half made beside it. She took the

work up and tried a few stitches ; but few
young girls, with a lively temperament like
hers, are fond of needlework, especially when
alone, and she, certainly, was not one of the
exceptions. They may like it passing well with
companions, when tongues keep pace with busy
fingers; but most women must be older before
they can contentedly spend solitary hours at
needlework. They must have busy thoughts
for their companions  memories of the past ;
maybe of sorrows and anxieties in the present,
or hopes and fears for the future. Kate might
grow to this, but her life was too active and
sunny for her to care to occupy her hands alone,
and leave her thoughts to ramble.

Therefore her work had not progressed far
before she threw it down, and exclaimed, '' I
must have someone to talk to. I don't care a
bit about the rain, and I'll go and see Mrs.
Stephens."

A quarter of an hour later Kate  dressed to
brave the weather  passed through the garden
gate, and turned to the left away from, the
village. One or two picturesquely-thatched
cottages were the only buildings beyond the
church and rectory in this direction, and then

came a pretty English lane, overhung by branching
trees. Ten minutes' walk brought her to a
gate, where a short drive through an avenue
led to an old-fashioned house, shallow in the
centre, but with a projecting wing of greater
depth on either side.

On coming to the first window, Kate peeped
in and tapped. A lady, who was busy writing,
looked up, saw her, and came hurrying to the
front door.

"My dear child!" she exclaimed; "out in
all this heavy rain ! Take off your wet things
at once. Susan, Susan ! Come and help Miss
Galbraith."

A neat handmaid quickly answered her call,
and Kate, divested of her wet wraps, affectionately
took the elder lady's arm, and both
entered the sitting-room together.

I was just finishing a letter, Kate," said
Mrs. Stephens. " Be quiet for a few minutes,
if you can, and then I shall be ready to talk to
you."

The lady, who now resumed her seat at the
writing-table, was little, plump, and comfortable-looking.
She seemed over fifty, but time had
handled her gently, and she remained younger

and fresher than many who were greatly her
juniors.

Some eight years previously her husband 
Major Stephens  had retired from the service,
and, in searching for a quiet and desirable
country home, had lighted on the Field House,
then to let ; they took a fancy to it, and settled
down at Belton. Having no children of their
own, Mrs. Stephens soon became greatly attached
to the rector's motherless daughter, and had
come to regard her almost as her own child.
The friendship was of great benefit to Kate,
for the elder lady had seen a great deal of the
world, was well read, fairly accomplished 
especially in music  and withal of a keen,
shrewd wit. She had also a somewhat sharp
tongue, but those whom she liked had no cause
to fear its sting.

The little sitting-room was as pleasant and
cosy as its mistress. Like most of the rooms in
that neighbourhood which boasted the dignity
of years, it was oak-panelled ; but some one,
with a love of light and gaiety, in the era of
darkness which preceded the modern awakening
to a more cultivated taste, had barbarously
covered the dark oak with a coating of paint.

No one having gone to the trouble and expense
of repairing such a solecism, painted it remained,
in two shades of light green. The drawing-room
was upstairs, occupying the entire floor
of the central portion of the house, and rejoiced
in desecrated oak-panelling ; but the room
below was the special boudoir and snuggery of
Mrs. Stephens, and abounded in low easy-chairs,
handy little tables, books, pictures, work, and
flowers ; while an open piano occupied one
corner, and a table covered with tools for wood-carving
another.

The room was too familiar to Kate for anything
in it to attract her attention, and she
seated herself on a low chair, taking a handsome
Persian cat upon her lap, until Mrs. Stephens,
having closed and directed her letter, said,
'' There ! I have done now."

Then Kate sprang up, and playfully pushing
her friend into an armchair, seated herself on
a footstool beside it ; and leaning her arms on
the other's knee, and looking up into her face,
began, 

'' Now, dear Mrs. Stephens, we will have a
really nice chat ; I have been longing for someone
to talk to all day."

'what !" said Mrs. Stephens, laughing, her
hands held prisoners in those of her young
favourite. "Are you not going to allow me
even to work ?"

'' No, certainly not," replied Kate, imperiously.
'you are to be as idle as I am.
Now where shall I begin ? I have so much
to tell you ! In the first place, have you heard
about the party at the Hall ?"

I have Mrs. North's invitation," answered
Mrs. Stephens, resigning herself to the girl's
whim, and stroking her bright, fair hair ; "and
I see it is for a garden party and a dance in
the evening ; but I know no particulars."

Then I can tell you," was the eager rejoinder,
" for Roger came yesterday and told
us all about it. They are to have a military
band, and croquet, and archery, with such
charming prizes. The dancing is to be in
the music-room, and in the evening the terrace
and some of the garden walks will be
lighted with Chinese lanterns. Won't it be
delightful?"

Yes," replied the elder lady, thoughtfully.
Certainly when Mrs. North does do these
things, and that is seldom enough, she knows

how to do them well. This time no doubt she
is especially inspired by an object."

*'Anobject?" said Kate, inquisitively; "what
object ? Do tell me." And then, before the
other was able to reply, she added, " Oh ! I
suppose you mean to please her niece, Constance
Erskine. She has not been here for a longtime
; she used to come almost every summer
when she was a little girl, and as I am only a
year or two younger we often played together ;
but I fear we never got on very well, and I
doubt if we shall now. The other day Mrs.
North showed me one of her photographs, and
she looked so grand and distinguished that I
am sure she will alarm a poor little country
mouse like me."

*' I daresay her companionship would do you
a great deal of good," said Mrs. Stephens, half
in jest and half in earnest ; '' and I shall expect
to see a great improvement when you have had
the opportunity of studying such a model."

Don't talk like that," said Kate, with a
pretended pout, ''or I shall not be able to
enjoy myself one bit at the party ; you will make
me think all the time of my behaviour. As it
is," she added, with a little sigh, '' it won't be

quite perfect, because father says he shall only
go for the afternoon, and Intends to ask you to
take care of me In the evening. I shall not
enjoy the dancing half so much If he Is not
there to look on."

With these words some graver thought
seemed to come over her. The bright smile
died away, and her voice had a tremor when
she spoke again.

Dear Mrs. Stephens, do you know I am
afraid father has not been feeling very well
lately. He looks so weary sometimes, and
now when we are riding he never puts Toby
out of a walk. Have you noticed It, and do
you think there Is anything amiss ?"

'' We cannot all be as young as you are,
Kate ; and the rector Is growing older,"
replied Mrs. Stephens, parrying the girl's
question.

I wish father could always remain as he
Is," said Kate, with a sigh. Then the ready
tears came, and she added, ''No, I don't, it
would be very selfish. Do you know, Mrs.
Stephens"  and she spoke In low and awe-struck
tones  "long ago, I used to think that I was
all the world to father, just as he is all the

VOL. I. 4

world to me ; but once, when I had been very
naughty with one of my governesses, Mamsie
took me to her room, and talked to me a long
while. She told me how I ought to be a good
girl, and a comfort to him, because he had
suffered so much. And she told me how happy
he had been when my mother was alive ; and
how, when she died, he was so very, very ill,
that they thought he would have died too.
And Mamsie said it was only the thought of
Mary and of me that made him wish to get
better. After I knew this I did try, more than
I had done before, to do all I could to please
him ; but I never quite realized how he still
mourned for his dead wife until one day I went
to the study window, and was just going to
speak to him, when I saw that he was gazing
at her portrait, and a look was on his face that
told me more than any words could do how he
longed to join her. He did not see me, and
I stole quiet away. So you see, dear Mrs.
Stephens," she concluded, with childlike simplicity,
'' it would be very selfish to wish father
to stay with me always."

A silence followed ; and then Kate brushed
away the tears which had gathered in her eyes,

and, with one of her quick changes from grave
to gay, she said, 

'' I have not told you all my news yet. Very
likely we shall have a visitor for the party at
the Hall."

'' And who may that be, Kate ? "

*' His name is Sydney Ferrars ; but It is
rather a long story. Father had a letter from
Mary the other day, in which she asked him
to invite this Mr. Ferrars to stay with us. He
Is a cousin of her husband, and for some time
has had an estaiifia near theirs in South
America ; and now he is in England on a visit.
She wants him to come here that he may tellus
all about them and their home ; and then
when he returns he can tell her all about us
and every one here. You know Mary Is a
very bad letter-writer, and never tells us half
wee want to hear about the children and all
their surroundings. Father wrote at once to
ask him for the week of the party, and I hope
he will come, for there are a hundred questions
I want to ask."

No doubt," rejoined Mrs. Stephens, drily,
*' and It Is to be hoped his patience is not easily
exhausted. But, Kate, will you not have

.o\tV

ov

\LU0

your school-feast also to think of for that
week ? "

"" Yes, Indeed, and I want to talk It over with
you."

Then followed a long and minute discussion
between the two concerning the arrangements
for a village school-feast which was annually
held in the rectory grounds. This occupied
their attention until Susan brought the afternoon
tea, when Major Stephens joined them,
and put an end to their tete-astute. The Major
was a good-tempered, soldierly-looking man, a
few years older than his wife, v/ith nothing
remarkable about him beyond a certain military
neatness and great precision In his dress, and
also a keen appreciation for his quicker-witted
wife.

Kate was as much a favourite with the Major
as with his wife ; and an hour soon passed in
pleasant chat until, the rain having ceased, at
least for the time, she took leave of her friends
and walked homewards.

She was thinking, as she walked along, of
the garden party, the school-feast, and speculating
on what kind of man their expected
visitor might prove to be. But Vvhen she

arrived in sight of the old church her mood
changed ; and moved by a sudden impulse, she
turned aside into the churchyard. The grass
had been lately mown, and, although wet, was
quite short. She left the path, and walked
across the turf to a spot where were two graves,
placed side by side, both carefully tended, and
planted with the choicest flowers that would
thrive out-of-doors in an English summer.

Ever since Kate, as a tiny, toddling child,
was led about by her sister Mary, she had been
accustomed to come to these graves, and give
her baby help to the loving task of keeping
them bright and neat. And when Mary married
and went away, one of her last requests to her
little step-sister had been, "When you are
taking care of your mother's grave, Katie dear,
you won't forget to care for my mother's grave
too, will you ? " Kate had promised, and had
so faithfully kept her promise that it was hard
to say which of the two looked the brighter or
the fairer.

While she stood before them the sun burst
from beneath the clouds, and cast its slanting
beams upon the wet plants, turning each drop
of water into a shining diamond. She watched

until the gleam had died away, and then thoughtfully
retraced her steps. As she reached the
path, she was accosted by the old sexton, who
happened to be crossing the churchyard.

'' Good evening, Miss Kate," he said, touching
his hat respectfully. 'we've had a powerful
lot o' rain to-day."

Yes, indeed, Barnes ; but everything looks
the fresher for it."

'' Eh, indeed ! " replied the old man, looking
towards the graves she had just left. "Your
flowers be dashed by it now, miss, but tomorrow
they will look a deal better. It's a
many years I've seen ye a-coming and a-going,
looking after them graves ; and strange it be
to think that me and my old missus should be
here still, strong and hearty like ; while she " 
pointing towards the nearest grave  " who was
a young thing when we was getting old, should
ha' lain there many a day. Eh, miss ! the
rector wur powerful fond on her ; he's never
been the same man sin' she went ! Me and my
old missus, we used to say as he could never
bear her to be out of his sight. I mind once,
miss, when you was a baby, an' she had to goto
Lunnon  to ness her brother, I heard tell 

the rector he didn't look himself, he didn't, till
she come home again ; and the first Sunday
she wur in church again, it did one good to look
on his face, he wur that pleased."

Kate let the old man ramble on. She never
tired of hearing of the young mother she could
not remember ; and though she had heard that
mother described a hundred times, she asked,
*' Was she like me, Barnes ? "

Eh, no, bless you, miss ; you favours the
rector. She wur not nigh so tall, but little
like ; an' yet I do say to my old missus that
when I be a-working here, an' hears you a-
laughing and a-talking over in the garden, that
it 'minds me of the time when she used to be a-
laughing' a-playing with you and Miss Mary,
her as is married an' gone over the seas " 
this with an expressive jerk of the thumb
backwards, signifying unknown regions. *' Miss
Mary, she wur powerful fond on her too. Eh !
it wur a sad day for all on us when she wur
took."

So saying, and shaking his grey head, Barnes
bade Kate good evening, and trudged away
to his cottage, while she walked slowly and
thoughtfully home.

The old man's talk formed a fitting sequel to
the words she had addressed to Mrs. Stephens,
and brought before her mind one of life's great
problems. She had lived side by side with her
father all her days, apparently sharing his every
thought, yet there was a side of his life to Vvhich
she could but dimly penetrate  the life he had
lived before she came into being, and which she
knew was as real and near to him as anything
in the present. The familiar lines came into
her mind with a new meaning 

Not e'en the tenderest heart, and next our own,
Knows half the reasons why we smile or sigh ! "

When Mr. Galbraith reached home a little
later, Kate's loving eyes saw that he looked
pale and tired ; and, if that were possible, she
was more than usually gentle and tender
towards him.

THE SHADOW ON THE WALL.

One sunny afternoon, at the end of July, Kate's
pony carriage came rattling along the village
street of Belton. The chestnut pony was
tossing its head, somewhat out of temper, and
indignant that the reins were not held, as usual,
by the gentle hand of its mistress.

On the present occasion, the two occupants
of the carriage were of the sterner sex. A
young groom, in the sober livery befitting the
servant of a quiet country rector, had been
sent to the nearest station to meet Mr. Sydney
Ferrars, and was now driving him to the
rectory with all the speed and dash that he
thought the honour and dignity of the family
required.

Had the rector's old coachman seen his
satellite thus handling the reins, he would
certainly have given him a reprimand ; but a

sharp attack of rheumatism kept him in his
cottage, safely out of sight and hearing. It
was owing to Rufus's increasing age and infirmities
that the young groom had been lately
taken into the rector's service ; and he would
never have been allowed to drive Kate's pony
had not aches and pains kept the old coachman
a most unwilling prisoner.

Sam, the young groom, appeared determined
to enjoy to the uttermost the glory of his
new position, and drove through the rectory
gate and up to the door with a speed which,
when he drew rein, brought the pony back on
its haunches. Then he jumped out of the
carriage, rang the bell loudly, and remarked,
judging by signs best known to himself, and
offering a blank page to those less initiated, 

Master and miss not come in yet, sir."

And so it proved ; for in answer to the loud
summons, Mrs. Vale came hurrying after Patty
to the door, with many apologies that the
master and Miss Galbraith should not have
returned from their afternoon ride before their
guest's arrival.

I expect them every minute, sir," said Mrs.
Vale, as she ushered Mr. Ferrars into the

drawing-room; ** they said they would surely be
back before you came ; and went out earlier
than usual, on purpose. And here they are
now, sir," she added, as she drew up the
blind of a window which looked out upon the
drive.

Young Ferrars involuntarily turned his eyes
in the same direction, and caught sight of an
elderly gentleman, with grey head slightly bent,
riding on a short, stout cob ; and then he
looked longer, and with evident admiration, on
the slender yet rounded figure of the young
girl who rode beside him, sitting her horse
with grace and ease.

Kate Galbraith's form was of that character
which never shows to greater advantage than
on horseback, and her dark, close-fitting habit
served but as a foil to her refined features.
She happened to be in high spirits. Any
passing anxiety regarding her father's health
had been lulled to sleep ; and the excitement
caused by the gaieties of the coming week
made her face bright with anticipated pleasure.
The ride, too, had given to her cheek a soft
shade of pink, which heightened the charm of
her youthful freshness.

Mrs. Vale left the room to announce the
visitor's arrival, and Sydney Ferrars watched
Kate as she sprang unaided from the saddle,
and he caught the sound of her sunny voice as
she patted and caressed her horse ; while Rover
was jumping round her, barking with vociferous
jealousy to attract some share of notice. The
rector dismounted more slowly ; and Sam, who
had appeared in the meantime, led the horses
to the stables, as father and daughter entered
the hall door.

Kate had been accustomed from childhood
to do the honours of her father's house. She
entered the room with a dignity of bearing
somewhat astonishing to one who had come
from London to a country rectory, expecting to
find his hostess, certainly a lady, but a mere
girl, and with the diffident manner of one
brought up in strict seclusion.

Kate was equally, if not more, astonished at
her visitor's appearance. She had drawn of
him a mental picture  a reflection of her brother-in-law,
George Ramsay, as she remembered
him,  a bluff, honest, kindly sort of man, with
clothes more substantial than elegant, and with
a general disregard for mere refinement. These,

she considered, must be the traits of all young
men who had essayed to make their fortunes
by sheep-farming or cattle-raising, whether in
an English colony or in North or South
America. But the man she saw was in every
way a contrast to her preconceptions. In the
first place, he was well dressed. No one but a
London tailor could have made his light morning
suit, every detail of which was faultlessly unobtrusive.
Then Sydney Ferrars was undeniably
handsome. He was tall, and of a graceful
figure, with head well set on his shoulders. No
one could regard him for a moment without
being aware of his wonderfully speaking blue
eyes  large, liquid, and prominent, with the
Indications of a histrionic and musical talent
of no mean order. His eyebrows were dark
and delicately pencilled, his nose aquiline, and
the lower part of his face was covered by a
silky beard and moustache, dark in colour, buta
thought lighter than his hair.

Whether it were by accident or design that
he wore that close-trimmed beard and soft
moustache, it was happy that he did so ; or
the eyes of an acute physiognomist might have
discovered in the lower portion of his face

something which would have detracted from
the pleasing characteristics suggested by the
handsome eyes and brow.

On entering the drawing-room, Mr. Galbraith
came forward with his pleasant, old-world courtesy,
and greeted young Ferrars kindly.

'' I am sure we are most grateful to you,
Mr. Ferrars," he said, " for coming out of your
way to visit quiet country folks like ourselves.
It will be a true pleasure to hear from you
many particulars of my daughter's home and
life in the Argentine Republic ; and I hope, in
return, that we may be able to offer you some
amusements during your visit."

'' The country is sufficiently delightful in itself,
sir, after a London season," replied Sydney.
'' My father's profession, as you know, keeps
him in town during term time, and, since I
landed, I have passed most of my leisure in
London"; so an English landscape has not yet
lost for me its charms."

Sydney's manner was pleasant and deferential ;
his voice rich and sweet ; and, mutually pleased
with each other, the three soon fell into an
easy flow of conversation, all the easier because
they had a subject ready to their hand, on which

Mr. Galbralth and Kate had much to ask and
he as much to tell.

The time had passed so quickly that all were
surprised when the bell rang, warning them to
dress for dinner.

Half an hour later, as Sydney Ferrars came
leisurely down the slippery old oak staircase
and crossed the hall, the sound of several voices
from the drawing-room caught his ear, among
them a high-pitched feminine voice, which certainly
did not belong to Kate. He gave a slight
shrug, scarcely indicative of pleasure ; and then,
opening the drawing-room door, found that some
other guests were assembled, ostensibly in his
honour.

Two gentlemen were standing by the window,
talking with the rector, one a grey-headed,
military-looking man, alert and self-possessed ;
the other somewhat younger, a clergyman by
his dress, with a diffident look and awkward
manner, as though his passage through the
world had given no cause for self-confidence.

Two ladies were sitting by Kate, and both
were little women. One was well-dressed,
sprightly, and evidently difficult to overawe ;
the other wore her old-fashioned garments with

an apologetic air, and appeared nervous, and
ready to be frightened even by a child.

The introductions which followed Sydney's
entrance told him that his fellow guests were
Major and Mrs. Stephens, and the rector's
curate and his wife  Mr. and Mrs. Bland.

Dinner was soon announced ; and during its
progress Sydney Ferrars gradually lost the
consciousness of being a stranger. His individuality
began to unveil itself, and conversation
had seldom flowed more easily at the rector's
table.

Sydney soon monopolized the iole of talker,
and this he did without appearing to put himself
too prominently forward ; for afterwards each
of the older men remained under the impression
that himself had been the inspiring genius.
Sydney, in fact, was an agreeable talker. His
rich voice and speaking face added an interest
to words which would have fallen dully from
others. Then he had plenty to talk about ;
plenty to say that was both new and amusing
to people who were leading a quiet life in a
country village. His father was a barrister of
some standing, and resided in town, so that the
last month or two which Sydney had spent at

home supplied a fund of London talk of an
entertaining kind. And he had been several
times on the Continent, previously to residing
in South America ; and art, literature, and
politics all seemed subjects with which he was
equally conversant.

Kate listened with amusement and delight,
and now and then joined in the conversation
with a lively question or remark. Mrs. Bland
was simply rapt in wondering admiration ; but
Mrs. Stephens wore an air more critical than
approving.

At last the ladies retired to the drawing-room.

What a delightful young man ! " exclaimed
Mrs. Bland, as they seated themselves by the
drawing-room window to enjoy the lovely
summer evening.

'eyes, he is very pleasant," said Kate ; 'rand
oh ! he has been telling us so many interesting
things about the dear children and Mary ; "
and then she launched into a repetition of the
sayings and doings of her youthful and distant
relations.

It was not long before they were joined by
the gentlemen. Sydney sat down by Kate,
and carelessly took up a volume of poems which

VOL. I. 5

lay upon the table. Turning over its leaves,
something arrested his attention, and he said
to the rector, who was standing by, 

"We were talking in the other room, sir, of
the power a clever recitation possesses of bringing
out the value and beauty of written words.
Did you ever hear Walter Montgomery's
rendering of Edgar Poe's poem of ' The
Bells?"

No," replied Mr. Galbraith, *' I never heard
him either recite or act. Was there any peculiarity
about his recitation ?"

Yes; to each stanza he gave the tone of the
different kind of bell described in it ; and the
effect was most wonderfully realistic."

Something impelled Kate to ask, 

*' Can you show us how he used to do it,
Mr. Ferrars ?"

'' I could imitate him after a fashion years
ago," replied Sydney. " I used to meet Walter
Montgomery sometimes, and he gave me one
or two lessons."

'' Please try now," said Kate, persuasively ;
and the others, who had been listening to the
conversation, joined in her request.

Sydney, who seemed attracted by the girl's

eagerness, addressed himself to her rather than
to the others, as he said, 

** If you wish it, I will make the attempt ;
but you must excuse me if 1 fail, for it is long
ago since first I tried to do it."

Then for a moment he paused, apparently
concentrating his attention for the purpose of
untangling the skein of half-forgotten memories.

He began, and after the first line his audience
listened as it were spellbound.

His delivery was not exactly that of speaking,
it was not exactly as if he sang ; but his
rich voice, rising and falling in harmonious
rhythm, came forth, now low, now soft, in
varying tones, as bell succeeded bell.

His auditors could hear the gaily tinkling
sleigh-bells, crisply delicate as they vibrated in
the frosty air ; the merry, clanging marriage-bells,
glad and joyous, telling of young, ever-springing
hope, and of strong faith in a happy
future. Then a sudden change, when deep
and solemn came the passing bell, tolling for
souls who had ended their worldly fight, whether
for weal or woe.

And as he recited the refrain to each verse
of " Bells, bells, bells," his voice first rose, then

sank, then died in echoing waves of sound,
diverse yet ever pure, until at length the listeners
had lost all present consciousness, and
were enthralled in complete illusion.

As Sydney paused, a murmured " Thank
you " told better than more open praise how
much his beautiful rendering had been appreciated.


Mrs. Stephens was the first to break the
silence.

'' You can sing," she said. " I feel sure you
can."

"Yes," replied Sydney, "at one time I used
to sing a great deal ; and since my return to
England my sisters have not allowed me to
drop it altogether."

Of course he was asked if he had brought his
music with him, and replying in the affirmative
he was sent to bring a large portfolio from his
room. He handed it to Kate, saying, 

I am ashamed to confess that I have to
depend upon friends for my accompaniments.
Will you play them for me this evening. Miss
Galbraith?"

Kate turned over the pages with a doubtful
look

I am afraid," she said, '' your music is too
difficult for me ; but Mrs. Stephens can play
anything at sight."

So Mrs. Stephens, instead of Kate, took
her seat on the music-stool, and Sydney opened
the book at the song " Figaro qua, Figaro la."

' You are ambitious, young sir," she thought,
as she began to play ; but when the concluding
notes of voice and piano had died away, she
turned to him in her short, sharp way, and
said, 

You never learnt to sing like that on a
sheep-farm in South America ! "

"No, indeed," he replied, and perhaps a
thought bitterly. " In South America I was
more likely to forget how to sing at all. Won't
you play something, Mrs. Stephens ? " he
added.

But all joined in an entreaty for another
song. Even Mrs. Stephens thawed, for she
was too purely a musician not to become
enthusiastic in the presence of an amateur of
the unusual talent and cultivation which Sydney
had displayed. Song followed song, and each
was rendered with a life and passion seldom
attained by any but a professional vocalist.

After the singing was over, Mrs. Stephens
played some instrumental music, brilliantly,
and with a sympathetic touch. Then Kate
somewhat reluctantly gave a simple English
ballad.

** There," she said to Sydney, as she concluded,
'' I am glad it is over ; I cannot sing
after you."

*' But you can," he replied, laughing at her
spoilt-child manner. '' You have a very good
quality of voice, and only need a few lessons
from a London master to enable you to manage
it perfectly. I have some duets here that I
sing with my sisters. We must try them over
in the morning."

The evening sped pleasantly away, and all
were sorry when the time arrived to bid goodbye.
No carriages were needed to convey the
guests away. Worthy Mr. and Mrs. Bland
were walking, because they had no carriage,
and their terminus was the village, Major
and Mrs. Stephens walked, because they liked
to walk ; the night was fine, the distance
short, and both were cosmopolitan enough to
prefer independence to unnecessary state.

Mrs. Stephens tucked up her long silk train

under an ample cloak and took her husband's
arm, while he quietly enjoyed the fragrance of
a good cigar.

They had almost reached their door when his
wife broke a long silence by saying abruptly, 

That's a dangerous man, Robert ! "

'* Dangerous ! what man ? " exclaimed the
Major, whose thoughts had been wandering to
the I St of September, and possible invitations.
For the moment his only idea of a dangerous
man was connected with some poacher, who
might, perchance, destroy his anticipated sport.

What man ? " she retorted, with some
asperity. " Do you think I could mean the
rector, or harmless Mr. Bland ? Of course I
mean Mr. Ferrars."

But, my dear," he meekly remarked, '' I do
not see anything dangerous about him. On
the contrary, he appears to me to be an
exceedingly agreeable young fellow. I never
heard anything better than his singing, and
his recitation could not be surpassed. I believe
he would make a first-rate actor."

''No doubt," said she, drily. 'ein fact, I
am by no means certain that he is not one
already."

'' You are rather hard on the poor fellow,"
said the Major, answering her tone rather than
her words. '' But you have not told me what
you mean by dangerous. Do you think he will
cut the rector's throat or rob the house ? "

'' No one but a man could be so dense," she
answered, contemptuously. "Dangerous to Kate,
I mean, since I must be so very explicit. What
if he should engage her affections ? "

The Major whistled.

Humph ! " he said. " But he is only here
for a few days, my dear, and girls don't fall in
love in such a hurry, except on the stage. She
will probably never see him again."

I trust she won't," rejoined Mrs. Stephens,
emphatically, 'rand I wish that she had never
seen him. It would not matter so much had
she a mother. However, I shall take care to
be at the rectory as much as possible. The
preparations for the school-feast will furnish a
good excuse."

They had reached their home. Its friendly
door soon closed upon them, and the Major
went meditatively to his den to finish his cigar,
and to ponder over the prejudice which his
wife had conceived against Sydney Ferrars.

THE SHADOW DEEPENS.

Great was the bustle and preparation at the
Hall for the coming festivities. The quiet
and order which usually reigned were for the
moment set aside ; and staid old servants who
had been long in the family, and youthful
maids serving their first apprenticeship, alike
seemed to have abandoned somewhat of their
well-trained habits. A hurry and excitement
common to all, though expressed in different
ways, were to be found, from Mr. Martin,
overlooking the family plate, and scolding his
footmen, to Sally, who was cleaning pots and
pans in the scullery.

The master of the house alone seemed to
have escaped the general contagion. In any
case, he wore a thoughtful and preoccupied
air as he entered the small sitting-room, where

breakfast had been laid, for the dining-room
was already given up to the servants, who
were busy making preparations for supper In
the evening.

The breakfast-room was empty when Roger
entered, and he walked to the window and
stood looking out.

But was he occupied with the fair scene
before him ? Did he see the terraced garden,
with its gay flower-beds set like jewels on the
velvety green turf ? Or did he note the white
marquee beyond, bright with flags, which had
been erected among the spreading oaks In the
park ? Or, further still, the distant landscape,
its hills already misty beneath the heat of
an August sun . Did any of these things
occupy him ? It would appear not, and probably,
had It been a scene on which he looked
for the first time, he could not have recalled
or described a single detail, despite the earnestness
with which his gaze was fixed upon It
now.

A silvery laugh roused him at length from
his reverie, and he turned to find his cousin
close beside him. She was a fair reality sufficient
to recall anyone from the land of dreams,

and needing no art to enhance her beauty.
This she seemed to know, for the dress she
wore was simplicity itself.

*' I have wished you good morning three
times, Roger," she said, extending a little
jewelled hand. "What can you be thinking
about''

'T beg a thousand pardons, Constance," he
replied, a slight flush tinging his dark sunburnt
cheek. " I  I did not hear you come
into the room."

'' Cela va sans dire'' said she, laughing.

Mrs. North entered at the moment, and
Roger was glad of the excuse to turn away
in order to wish her good morning. Then
the servants coming in with hot dishes, they
settled themselves at the breakfast-table.

'' Who was that young man we met riding
with Mr. Galbraith and his daughter yesterday
? " asked Constance. " I forgot to enquire
at the moment, auntie, and I am sure that I
have seen his face before."

Strange ! that Constance's first words should
bear upon the very scene that had occupied
Roger's brain unceasingly for the last few
hours.

The most epigrammatic of English poets

once wrote 

Great streams
From little sources flow."

And so it was now with Roger. A trifling
incident on the previous day had opened the
flood-gates of his nature, and let loose an
overwhelming torrent of feeling  the very existence
of which he had been unconscious of
before. A few words will suffice to explain
the cause. He had driven his mother and
cousin to a cricket-match held in the grounds
of a friend. On the way home, as he was
driving his pair of thoroughbreds rapidly
round a sharp turn in the road, they had
come upon three equestrians, one of whom
was a girl, riding between an old man and a
young one. The three were walking their
horses quietly along, and the young man was
bending forward in the saddle. His face was
turned towards the girl, to whom he was
talking eagerly. She, meanwhile, held her head
slightly bent, and half turned towards him ;
her hair was a little loosened by the ride, and
softly shaded her profile ; but her attitude
showed that she was listening with attention

and interest. And that was all ! Still the
picture as he had seen it had haunted Roger
ever since  just those two faces,  those of the
handsome man and of the listening girl. But
this, seemingly, had been enough to set his
heart beating and his pulses throbbing in a
manner strange and uncommon in a man of a
strong and temperate nature.

' He is a Mr. Ferrars, Constance," replied
Mrs. North to her niece's question. 'you
have certainly never seen him here before ;
he is a stranger to these parts, and on a few
days' visit at the rectory."

Ferrars ! " said Constance. "Ah ! I remember
now ; he is an intimate friend of Lady
Sophia Macfarlane's, and I have heard him sing
at one of her soirees. He sings beautifully ; and
I once heard Lady Sophia tell mamma that he
is most fascinating, and that she would on no
account have him so much at her house if she
had marriageable daughters, as he is not an
eligible parti. Rather dangerous for Miss
Galbraith, I should fancy ; he seemed to be
making himself very agreeable yesterday.
What has she grown up to be like ? She used
to be a wild little thing, though most devoted

to her father, and obeying his Highest word Ina
moment."

"Her devotion to her father remains the
same," answered Mrs. North, In conformity
with her strict sense of justice ; " but," she
added, with a furtive glance at her son, " In
every other way she Is most unformed, and her
spirits run away with her at times. I daresay
she win be doing all sorts of wild things while
this young man Is there ; unless, indeed, Mrs.
Stephens plays the part of a careful chaperone."

*' Roger ! " said Constance, '' you have gone
into a brown study again, or I was going to
tell you that you may Introduce Mr. Ferrars tome
this evening. Really, it seems that it is
you who are sending me to Coventry, instead
of my sending you, as I threatened, and as
you richly deserve, for not coming to Good-wood."


Thus rallied, Roger was effectually roused.

'what a fool I must be making of myself !"
he thought, and he shook himself together ;
and for the rest of the meal took his fair share
in the conversation.

By three o'clock most of the expected guests
had assembled. Those who were to take part

in shooting for the prizes had been especially
asked to come early. Already the gardens and
that part of the park where the targets stood
afforded a gay and pretty sight. The day was
lovely. No lady had any cause to fear for her
delicate toilette, and smiles and laughter reigned.

Mr. Galbraith, with Kate and Sydney
Ferrars, had been amongst the earliest arrivals.
Kate was too eager about the archery to permit
the gentlemen to be late in starting ; and
Sydney Ferrars had laughed at her excitement,
and contrasted it with the manner of those girls
who had gone through a London season.

I am sure I don't wish to be like them,"
replied Kate. '' It is much nicer to enjoy oneself
whenever one goes out, and I always do."

In any case," thought Sydney, 'rit is very
pleasant and pretty to see, and infectious into
the bargain. I believe I am actually about to
enjoy a stupid garden-party myself."

Nor was he the only one who thought Kate's
bright face a pleasant face to watch. Had
Roger followed his own inclination he would
not have stirred from her side ; but conscientiousness
was his ruling guide even in little
things, and the habit of giving up his own

wishes to the pleasures and needs of others
had become such a second nature that not one
of his duties as host was omitted. He was
amongst the competing archers, and had intended
that Kate should shoot at the same
target with himself. But he was called away
just at the critical moment, and was obliged to
depute Major Stephens  also an enthusiastic
archer  to divide the competitors between the
three sets of targets.

Major Stephens, mindful of his wife, at first
arranged that Kate and Sydney should be
divided. But Sydney begged to have this
altered, and as the Major could invent no
very good excuse for refusing, he did what he
thought the next best thing, and placed them
both at his own target  " Under my own eye,
you know, my dear," as he explained afterwards
to his wife.

Roger returned, to find that Kate and he
were at different targets, while a third set
intervening proved a still further barrier to
any intercourse. And yet worse, the Major,
thinking to please Roger, had paired him with
Constance Erskine.

Constance would have repudiated the idea

even to herself of being in love with her cousin,
though from childhood she had always liked
his gentle, chivalrous nature, which had shielded
her from the teasing of her rougher brothers;
and now she was piqued by his manifest
indifference, and was determined to make him
her slave \i she possibly could. In any case,
she was sufficiently clever to render it almost
impossible for him to leave her side without
absolute rudeness.

So the afternoon wore away, and the shadows
grew long ; and Roger had been unable to be
with Kate for more than two or three minutes
at a time. And still, whenever his eyes sought
hers, there was that haunting, handsome face
close by. One happy opportunity did at last
occur. Kate shot an arrow almost into the
very eye of the gold, and Major Stephens
summoned Roger to give his opinion if it were
nearer the centre than one in his own target.
There was no doubt about it ; none but bold
Robin Hood or William Tell could be certain
of supplanting such an arrow, and all were
busy discussing the merit of the shot. Then
Roger found a chance of speaking to Kate
without danger of being overheard, and his
VOL. I. 6

voice betrayed a depth and earnestness unnecessary
about so trivial a matter.

*' I am so glad you have won the locket,
Kate. I thought you might when I was
choosing it. I hope so much that you will
like it."

'* How kind of you, Roger, to think of me ! "
she replied. "It is delightful to have won it ;
I never dreamed of such good fortune."

There was no time for more ; but Kate's
grateful smile gave to Roger the happiest
moment of the day.

His preoccupation during the afternoon had
not passed entirely unnoticed by kindly gossips.
Many remarked that something was wanting
of his usual frank and cheery manner ; but the
deficiency was unanimously attributed to a
wrong cause.

'' Ah ! it is easy to see who will be lady
paramount here some day," said one lady to
Mrs. Stephens. "What a lovely girl she is!
No wonder Mr. North looks a little distrait
and anxious, if it is not all settled yet."

"Settled!" exclaimed Mrs. Stephens, snappishly.
" Nothing of the sort. I don't believe
Roger North is in love with her at all. His

mother may be ; and the girl herself has perhaps
the sense to prefer him to the vapid, brainless
young fops who run after her by the score:"

To tell the truth, Mrs. Stephens was a little
out of temper. She had come to the party
firmly resolved to keep Kate and Sydney
Ferrars apart, an intention which she would
have found difficult to compass under any
circumstances ; and now she was reproaching
herself because, immediately on her arrival,
she had met an old friend from a different
part of the county, and the two became deeply
immersed in a long conversation of a kind that
Mrs. Stephens loved one bearing upon the
domestic histories of a circle of mutual acquaintances.
Hence it was late in the afternoon
when she awoke to the fact that Sydney
Ferrars had all the time been Kate's constant
companion. So when the ladies went into the
house, and Mrs. Stephens and Kate were
together upstairs, Kate found her old friend
exceedingly cross.

'now mind, Kate," said Mrs. Stephens,
'you are under my care this evening, and I
won't have you dance more than three times
with anybody."

** What nonsense!" replied Kate. 'you know
I have often danced four, and I think even
five times with Roger, and you never said a
word."

That's quite different," said the elder lady,
somewhat inconsequentially. "He is a very
old friend ; but this evening of course he will
be too busy to ask you so often, and, mind, I
will not allow it with any one else."

Kate followed her chaperone downstairs, by
no means disposed to implicit obedience. Had
not Sydney Ferrars already asked her to keep
at least four waltzes for him ? And what could
it matter when he was staying in their house ?

Before the dance commenced there was an
early supper ; and once more Roger had to
devote both time and attention to his older and
more important guests. He was sadly impatient
ere the last dowager had satisfied her appetite,
and had been obliged to depute a friend to tell
the musicians that it was time to commence
their duties. Then, when he was at liberty,
and had reached the dancing-room, the opening
bars of the second waltz fell upon his ears. In
another moment his eyes rested on the object
of his thoughts. He saw Kate standing in a

deep bay window, and by her side still that
handsome man. Some one spoke to Roger,
and he was obliged to stop and answer ; and
when he turned again Kate and Sydney Ferrars
were among the maze of dancers. It was easy
to see that the latter waltzed superbly, and
the two moved together with that easy, graceful
motion which is necessary for perfect
pleasure.

Roger crossed the room and stood in the bay
window, thinking that Kate would be sure to
stop there again. And he was right. In a few
minutes she and her partner drew back from the
crowd into its recess.

'' What lovely music  how delightful ! " Kate
was saying, and then she was startled by Roger's
voice at her elbow 

You have kept a dance for me, Kate, I
hope ? "

Kate glanced at her card in dismay, and then,
in a tone of genuine regret, she said, 

I am afraid every dance is gone  I am so
sorry ; why did you not ask me before ? I
thought you would very likely be too busy to
dance with me at all."

Are you sure you have not one left, Kate ' "

Not one ! I had been keeping some ; and
then Major Stephens brought up some officers
from Hammerton, and they took them all."

If there is an extra you must remember an
old friend," said Roger, with a gnawing pain at
his heart, and a thousand reflections on his own
folly, that had prevented him from securing one
or two dances beforehand. He had meant todo
so ; but during the afternoon, although the
desire was ever in his thoughts, he allowed each
opportunity to slip away without speaking the
words which trembled on his lips.

However, in this respect at least his position
as host befriended him ; and in due course an
extra was announced.

He had told Kate beforehand when it was to
be, and found her seated by Mrs. Stephens and
waiting for him. She took his arm, and he led
her to the ball-room silently,  silently, because
her light touch so thrilled him that for the first
time in his life, and in all their long intercourse,
he could not speak in the old easy way. Roger
danced well, not so well as Sydney Ferrars ;
but he held his partner firmly, and guided her
so carefully from any chance collision, that Kate
always liked to dance with him ; and, as he did

not seem disposed to talk, she yielded herself to
the enjoyment of the rhythmic motion.

** What a success the day has been, Roger,"
said she, when they paused at length ; '' and
how nice everyone looks." Then, thinking to
please him  for some of the gossip of the afternoon
had reached her ears  she added, " How
lovely Miss Erskine is ! and her dress is in such
exquisite taste, everybody has been admiring it."

Roger mechanically turned his eyes to where
his cousin stood, leaning on Sydney Ferrars'
arm ; nor did it discompose him to see her
there. She certainly did look lovely, and her
dress was a marvel of soft cream muslin and
lace, one of that kind which men admire because
they think it simple ; and which ladies envy
because they know it to be so costly.

Yes, I suppose she is very pretty," he
answered ; '' but one does not notice that sort
of thing so much in relations." Kate rather
marvelled at the indifference of his reply, and
presently they joined the dance again.

All things come to an end, and this day of
mental tension for Roger North was no exception.
When the last carriage had rolled away,
there still remained many guests from more

distant parts of the county who were to sleep
at the Hall ; among them a good many young
men, and the officers from Hammerton. Thus
the solitude for which Roger longed was yet
postponed until after a talk and smoke In the
study ; and it was half-past three when he shut
himself in his own room, with a deep-drawn
sigh of pure relief.

He was alone at last ! at liberty to look In
the face these new sensations which had swept
through his being as a whirlwind, obtaining the
mastery over his senses. Now he must grapple
with them, and place them at least under due
control. To sleep was Impossible ; he walked
to the window and looked out. The grey dawn
was already nigh, and but one or two of the
largest stars remained visible. Roger felt he
could not compose his excited nerves within the
narrow boundaries of his room ; he must have
air, and space, and motion. In obedience to
this Impulse, he changed his evening dress fora
shooting suit ; and, stealing quietly down the
stairs, passed out through the study window.

He crossed the garden, avoiding the direction
of the stables lest the dogs should hear his step,
and strode rapidly through the park. The hour

of four sounded from the turret clock of the
Hall, and was answered a minute later by the
deeper tones issuing from the old church-tower
away in Belton village. Then a cock crowed,
loudly, for it had caught sight of the rosy hue
springing in the eastern sky, harbinger of the
coming day.

The rapid pace and balmy morning air
seemed to do Roger good ; he could think now,
and for the first time he said to himself, '' I
love her, I love her." And then the question
arose, 'why did I not know it before?"
This seemed the strangest thing of all, since
now he felt, nay, he knew right well, that the
love had always been for long years past, and
that what had now come was but an awakening.
And the thought filled him with the glad joy of
possessing a new and precious treasure.

But then there was that other feeling which
had sprung into existence at the same moment,
and what was that ? Ever honest, even to
himself, he would call it by its true name, and
that name was  jealousy. He had that day
been more inclined to break the sixth commandment
than ever in his life before. It was
almost deadly hatred that he had felt towards

the man who had suddenly come among them
and usurped the place which he had looked
upon as his own by right. Still, if Ferrars
went away and left things as they were, would
not Roger owe him almost a debt of gratitude
for opening his dull eyes before it was too late,
and ere another could have time to step forward
and pluck his fair flower ?

Such thoughts as these surged through
Roger's brain, and made him heedless of what
path he took, so long as it was an unfrequented
one.

The sun came bright and red, flooding the
landscape with its rosy light, then hid itself
behind some dark low clouds, and all was grey
and misty, though lighter than before. Still
Roger walked on for several miles, until he
came to a little coppice, and paused at a rough
gate. At the same moment he caught sight of
a figure crouching, and evidently hiding in the
underwood. All his sportsmanlike instinct was
awakened in an instant. He sprang forward,
but the figure was up and away before he could
reach it, and had doubled round some trees.
Then, with great want of presence of mind, it
made for the gate, and scrambling over commenced

to run across the open field. Roger
was fleet of foot, and did not require many
minutes to come up with the intruder, whom he
rather roughly grasped by the shoulder.

'' Here, stop, you fellow ! " he cried ; '* it is
no use your trying to get away."

The boy, for he was little more, came to a
standstill. His eyes opened wide on seeing
who it was that held him ; then he hung down
his head with a shame-faced, sulky look.

Let me go, maister," he said. '' I bent
doing no harm."

'' Why were you hiding then ? " said Roger,
sternly. Then looking at the boy more narrowly,
his voice softened. " Why, Jem Warner, is it
you ? I should never have thought to find you
skulking in one of my woods like that. You're
in luck that it was I, and not Robinson, who
caught you."

The boy turned very red, and looked more
stolidly sulky than before.

** Let me go, maister," he said again.

'' No, Jem," replied Roger, 'you must make
a clean breast of it first, and tell me all about
it. Why do I find you here when you ought
to be going to your work ? "

** I hasn't got no work."

'' No work ! why I thought that Farmer
Styles had taken you on ? "

'' He turned me off cos' he said I stole
summit ; but he's a liar  I didn't ! " added the
lad, fiercely.

Bit by bit Roger extracted a long story
from the boy. Farmer Styles had been spiteful,
and warned others against him, and no one
would employ him. His father had been angry,
and would have turned him out of doors but for
his mother's tears, and then his father could
not afford to keep him at home idle. His old
companions had first avoided and then jeered
at him, calling him '' thief." He had taken to
worse company, and a travelling tinker, of bad
repute, had promised to pay him well for any
hares or rabbits he could bring ; and so last
night he had set some snares for the first time,
and was making off with his ill-gotten plunder
when Roger caught him.

Roger listened kindly and patiently to the
lad's long story, often rendered Incoherent by
his tears.

'well, Jem," he said, at length, " don't you
think you could have found some better way



to convince the world of your honesty than by
turning poacher ? "

'' They said I wur a thief, so I thought it
would na be worse if I wur one," he replied
doggedly.

'jem, Jem! you will break your mother's
heart if you go to the bad. Go home now
and come to me at the Hall at two o'clock 
punctual, mind  and I will find you work to do."

The lad's face brightened ; then he said
anxiously, 

But you will na tell any one where you
found me, maister ? "

'' Not if you v/ill hold your tongue," replied
Roger, rather relieved that his strange rencontre
should be kept secret.

Thus they parted ; Jem Warner with a
lighter heart than he had known for many a
day, and somehow to Roger this lite incident
seemed to have brought more hope.

The sun had dispersed the mists and was
shining brightly, and Roger's mood had become
more in harmony with the gaiety and
gladness of the summer's morning. He knew
Kate to possess deep and strong feeling beneath
her girlish light-heartedness. It was not likely

that she would be so quickly wooed and won.
To-morrow Sydney Ferrars was to leave, and
then he would at least try to win her love.
And if he failed ? Well ! he was a man ; and
other men had borne like things before.

The walk had certainly done him good. If
he had ever read the words, " Blessed is the
mail who invented walking," he would most
cordially have endorsed them. It was past
seven when he was once more in sight of home.
His way led by a pool, where was a little house
for bathing purposes, and often used by him.
This decided him to stop and bathe, and by
so doing his return to the house at a later hour
would excite no remark from any one. A
plunge in the cool, clear water was refreshing
after his sleepless night and long walk ; and
when he appeared at the breakfast table none
could have guessed how he had spent the last
few hours.

ON THE BRINK.

On the morning after the party at the Hall,
Kate had made her old nurse promise to awake
her at the usual hour, for It was the day of the
school-feast, and, as always happens, there was
much to be done, even to the very last moment.

'' If I am tired," she had said to Mantle, '' I
must wait to have a good sleep until the next
morning, when there will be nothing much
to do."

Certainly the little ones expected in the
rectory grounds that day had no idea of the
late hours In vogue among a more fashionable
society. Most of them were up with the lark
incited thereto by pure excitement  and
great were the rejoicing at the undoubted
fineness of the morning.

Those of the children who lived in the village
were to be seen hanging about the rectory

gates as early as nine o'clock, and staring
through the open bars as though they expected
the very garden to wear a different aspect to
that which it did on other days.

To the grown-up people, especially to those
who had the management of the school-feast,
it seemed soon enough that the proceedings
were to commence at half-past eleven with a
short service in the church. But long before
that time the children thought that days must
have elapsed since they had left their beds, so
tedious did the hours of expectation seem to
the impatient little ones.

In spite of all before them, Mr. Galbraith
and his two companions lingered at the 
to talk over the dance of the preceding
night ; and, ere they left the dining-room, Mrs.
Stephens appeared, ostensibly to help Kate ;
in reality, to atone for the negligence of yesterday
by an extra vigilance to-day.

Sydney Ferrars had proved himself to be
most able in devising schemes for the amusement
of the children ; and now that the day
had come he threw himself into the spirit of
the occasion with a zeal that softened even
Mrs. Stephens. All were hurrying backwards

and forwards until the last moment, and had
barely completed the requisite preparations
when it was time to repair to the schoolroom,
where the children were to assemble in the first
instance.

What a hubbub it was of glad young voices
that rang in the open space between the churchyard
and the school ! What neat Sunday
clothes and clean faces were to be seen among
the happy crowd, giving evidence of motherly
care and fond pride !

'Presently, as if by magic, confusion ceased
and discipline resumed Its sway. At a word
from the master all came inside the school ;
and when they re-issued it was in orderly
procession, headed by the clergy, and singing
in measured time as they wended towards the
church. At the head of his little ones walked
the venerable grey-headed rector. He wore
a sweet and happy look, as he always did when
directly engaged In ministering to their needs.
Kate, already in her seat, watched him with
proud, loving eyes as he slowly traversed the
nave and took his accustomed place in the
chancel. And when he lifted his voice in the
more beautiful parts of the liturgy, she thought

VOL. I. 7

that she had never heard its tones more thrilling
or more solemn.

After a short service the rector addressed
his youthful congregation. He spoke of their
special duties with great earnestness, but in
simple, loving words which' the youngest could
not fail to understand. He spoke of the Great
Example, who had been Himself a child on
earth. He showed how, if they would follow
Him, they must be kind and unselfish in their
intercourse with one another ; and how, above
all, they must be good and obedient to their
parents. " My dear children," he said, in conclusion,
'' you are the little lambs of the flock,
for which I must one day render an account ;
and I am very anxious that you should remember
the words which I have just now spoken, and
that they may bear fruit in your future lives.
That they may do this the more readily, I will
tell you about something which happened tome
when I was a child, like one of yourselves.
You see me to-day an old man, and before long
I may be taken from among you ; but through
the many years of my life few memories have
been sweeter than the one which I am about
to mention. One day, years ago, when I was



quite a little child, younger than most of you,
my mother called me, and told me to take
care of my little brother in the garden. ' But
promise me,' she said, ' that on no account you
v/ill go beyond.' I promised, and soon he and
I were playing out-of-doors, happy and contented.
Presently some gay butterflies attracted
us, and we chased them hither and thither;
until they led us down the drive, and the largest
and gayest of them all flew above the gate. I
threw my cap after it, and butterfly and cap
fell to the ground together. In another second
I had my foot on the gate, and was about to
climb over. But suddenly my mother's words
and my promise to her flashed across my mind,
and I paused in time. It was a struggle to me
to give up the gay butterfly ; but obedience
triumphed, and I led my brother back to the
other part of the garden. After a while my
mother came from the house and inquired what
had become of my cap. I told her. As I
finished my tale I saw the tears standing in
her eyes, and I said, ' Mother, are you vexed
with me?' * No,' she replied, 'these are not
tears of sorrow, but tears of joy, of thankfulness,
that my little son has obeyed my word, and

resisted a temptation so that he might keep
his promise.' That, my dear children, was the
first and last time my mother entrusted me with
a duty to perform, for shortly afterwards she
fell ill and died. You can imagine how thankfully
I ever afterwards recalled the memory of
my obedience, and what my remorse must have
been had I disobeyed her on that occasion. I
trust that your parents may long be spared to
you ; but in the course of nature you will
outlive them ; and when the day comes that
you have heard their last words, and that their
eyes are closed in death, may you, one and all,
be able to say, ' The tears which my parents
have shed for me have been tears of joy rather
than of sorrow'"

Mr. Galbraith's voice trembled, and he paused
before he spoke the concluding words of benediction.


'' How strange," thought Kate, during the
few minutes she remained in church, *' that I
never heard father speak of this incident before."
So it seemed to her youth and inexperience.
But it was not strange. The deepest and
tenderest memories of the soul are often those
most jealously guarded, which seldom pass the

portals of the lips even to be poured into the
most sympathetic ear.

At the close of the rector's sermon an unusual
awe and stillness seemed to rest upon
the children, which was only dispelled when
they reached the rectory grounds. Then the
sight of the various preparations for their
amusement caused them to break their ranks
with loud huzzahs and shouts of pleasure.

The next event in the day's programme was
dinner. Kate had insisted that the children
should be fed as soon as possible.

I know," she argued, " that many of the
mothers never give them a scrap of breakfast
on the morning of a school-feast that they maybe
able to eat as much as possible during the
day, and how can they enjoy themselves, poor
things, when they are hungry ? "

After dinner the spirits of all seemed to
attain a higher pitch. Cricket, races, and other
games were set on foot by Sydney Ferrars,
Mr. Bland, and many more, and were carried
on with the greatest energy, whilst shouts and
screams of laughter rang through the air, and
came echoing back from the walls of the old
rectory.

This was the first time for several years that
Mrs. North and her son had not been present
from the commencement to the very end of
this village festival. The guests assembled at
the Hall had kept them fully occupied during
the morning ; but neither Roger nor his mother
intended to neglect the school-feast altogether,
and about the middle of the afternoon the
former drove a carriage full of ladies into the
rectory yard. He knew that the house would
be deserted, and that through the yard lay
the nearest way to the field where the games
were going on. The ladies went at once
towards the spot whither they were most unmistakably
guided by loud shouts and the
sounds of mirth, but Roger lingered for a
moment to attend to some trifling fault about
his harness.

As he was so employed, Sam came up and
touched his cap.

Please, sir, master said that if I saw you
I was to ask  would you step inside to him
in the study ? "

'* All right," replied Roger, and he went towards
the house. Its doors and windows stood
wide open, but there seemed not a soul within.

He entered the hall, and passing through it,
knocked at the study door.

** Come in," answered the rector ; and as
Roger entered he looked up. *' Ah, Roger !
is it yc/U ? I thought you would not mind
coming to me for a little while. The heat
outside is very fatiguing, so I came in to rest,
and besides, the opportunity seemed too good
to lose. With so many visitors at the Hall,
it is harder than usual to find you at liberty,
and I want to say a few words to you  alone."

'' Yes, indeed," said Roger, as he sat down ;
what with the calls of duty and pleasure, I
was thinking only this morning that I shall
have but little spare time before we go to
Scotland."

'' Then I am still better pleased to have
secured you now," replied the rector. "Somehow
to-day, Roger, I felt impelled to disclose
my thoughts, far more than usual, and I cannot
rest without speaking to you about them."

Roger waited in silence for what was to
come, whilst Mr. Galbraith, pausing for a short
moment to collect himself, at length began, 

I think you know that I went to Hammerton
a few weeks ago to consult my old

friend Dr. Fleming ; but you do not know,
for I have told no one, the opinion which he
gave.

"No," said Roger. "Not an alarming one,
I hope T'

'* Not an alarming one to me," said the
rector, calmly ; '' it was nothing more than I
had expected. He said that with caution and
freedom from anxiety I might live for months ;
but that I may be taken suddenly, and at anytime.


'* Is it Indeed so?" said Roger, deeply moved ;
** that Is sad news for all of us, but what will it
be to Kate ! "

Ah ! " replied Mr. Galbraith, a yearning
look suffusing his face, ''if it were not for her
I could rejoice that the summons may be so
near. To leave her is the one trial of my
faith ; but I humbly trust and pray that when
the "time comes I may be both ready and
willing to obey the call. But to pass from
myself to what I desired to see you about.
Dr. Fleming's warning made me go immediately
to my lawyer for the purpose of making
some slight changes in my will. Among other
things, I have named you a joint executor and

trustee with my brother-in-law, Mr. Beaumont,
and it will set my mind at rest to know that
you will not refuse to act."

Roger replied in a tone of deep feeling, 
"It \/Ill be a labour of love to do anything
I can for you." He was about to add, *rand
for Kate," but he checked himself, from a
new-born consciousness of his feelings towards
he r.

'thank you, Roger," said Mr. Galbraith,
holding out a hand, which the other grasped
affectionately ; ''I knew that you would do
what I wanted, but it is pleasant to hear it
from your own lips. I have named you instead
of a friend nearly as old as myself. It was
useless to think of George Ramsay, although
he is my son-in-law, and an excellent fellow,
in whom I have the greatest confidence. But
he lives so far away. I wish," he added,
musingly, 'that he and Mary had a home to
which, in the event of my death, Kate could go.
As it is, Mr. Beaumont, being her maternal
uncle, is her natural guardian, and he will be
kind to her, I know. But I should have had
nothing left to wish for could I but have lived
to see my Kate a happy wife  the wife of such

a man as you, Roger," he concluded, after a
slight pause.

Roger's face quivered, and he tried to suppress
words which were rising to his lips ; butin
vain. They would not be suppressed.

'' Do you really mean what you say ?" he said,
in low, deep tones. *' If you do, it would give
me fresh cause for hope. I love Kate. I love
her in a way that if she does not return my
love, at least no other shall ever be my wife."

The words were simple enough ; but the
voice and look of the man who spoke bore
stronger witness to the depth and earnestness
of his love than the most passionate expressions,
coming from a shallower nature, could have
done.

At least they carried conviction to the heart
of the rector ; and a look of great gladness
shone upon his face. His emotion seemed
almost greater than he could bear ; and he
leant back in his chair murmuring, 

'' Thank Heaven for this last blessing ! "

A silence followed, first broken by Mr.
Galbraith.

Does Kate know anything of your feelings
towards her ? "

*' No," replied Roger, rather sadly. '' She
has yet to be wooed and won."

"Ah, well!" said the rector, *' I may not
live to see this crowning happiness, but it imtst
be. No woman," and he looked at Roger with
an almost father's pride, '* could reject the love
of a man like you  my Kate least of all. If I
am not here to give her a father's blessing
when the time comes, tell her from me that she
has my double blessing, and that the knowledge
of your love before my death has been my
greatest happiness. But now," he continued,
leave me ; you must not remain here longer ;
there have been plenty of inquiries already for
the Squire.' We will talk again about this,
but at present I need to rest before rejoining
our friends outside."

The men gave to each other a silent pressure
of the hand, speaking of the confidence and
love each bore to each. Then Roger stepped
from the study into the gay garden, and paced
along its walks ; for he, too, had need to still
his throbbing pulse.

A busy scene met his eye when coming at
length into the field. Tea was just over, and
the children had returned with renewed vigour

to their several amusements. He soon saw
Kate, as she stood watching a group of merry-girls.
She wore a pale-blue print dress, which
harmonized, and wondrously well, with her
hair and fair complexion. Her hat had fallen
off, and was carried in her hand, and the sun's
rays shone on her bright and golden tresses.
Two tiny children, a boy and girl, clung to
her skirts. They had been shy and unhappy
at the beginning of the day, and Kate was
rewarded for her success in consoling them by
their unalterable fidelity ever since.

What a sweet vision of all that is best and
tenderest in woman she appeared to Roger ashe
approached ! A girl who had a gentle
sympathizing heart for grief in young or old,
what a wife, what a mother, she would some
day make !

Kate saw him as he entered the field, and
came to meet him, the children still clinging
to her dress, and trying, with their little toddling
feet, to keep pace with her longer step.

Oh, Roger ! I am so glad that you have
come at last. We have missed you dreadfully.
As for the boys, I heard Joe Deans say just
now, * Cricket's no good at all without the

Squire to play with us.' Mr. Ferrars has been
most kind ; but he is a stranger, and cannot
make the boys forget their allegiance to you."

Here Kate was interrupted by one of her
little followers, who set up a piteous howl.

*' Why, Polly ! what is it ? " she said, as she
stooped to comfort her. " You are never crying
at Mr. North, surely ! Look, Johnny does not
cry ; and the gentleman is very fond of good
little girls who don't cry. He would not
frighten or hurt you for the world." Then
Kate looked at Roger with one of her winning
smiles, and added, '* I think I may safely say
that much for you."

** I hope so," he said, smiling in return ; and
then they walked towards some ladies who were
sitting under the trees.

*' Have you been with father?" asked Kate.

** Yes ; he is coming out presently."

** He was tired," she said, with a little sigh ;
*' I hope the day has not been too much for
him."

They had reached the group of ladies, and
Kate sat down by Mrs. North; while Roger
went among the boys, who hailed his advent
with evident delight.

As the afternoon wore on, the air became
sultry, and though the children still played,
even they began to find it oppressive.

At last, when Mr. Galbraith once more
appeared, it was decided that as there were
signs of an impending thunderstorm, the children
should be dismissed, in order that they might
reach their homes in time to avoid a drenching.

This broke up the festival at an earlier hour
than usual. The children were assembled, and
a hymn having been sung, the usual cheers for
those who had promoted their amusements
were shouted with right good will.

Mrs. North declined Kate's invitation to
remain, and hurried away with her party, for
some of the ladies were nervous as to how
Roger's spirited horses would behave if the
storm overtook them. The other visitors left
quickly, for somewhat similar reasons, and none
remained to finish the evening at the rectory
save Major and Mrs. Stephens.

CHAPTER VII.

ACROSS THE DARK RIVER.

The storm lingered yet awhile before it burst.
The sun went down 'midst a sullen, angry,
reddish glow; and the deepening twilight added
to the gloom cast by the heavy clouds.

After dinner, Mrs. Stephens and Kate seated
themselves by the drawing-room window,
watching for the storm to break. As yet only
distant sounds of thunder had been heard, and
all nature seemed waiting in suspense for its
nearer approach. There was an ominous absence
of life and movement in all but the
rushing, angry clouds, which were blown into
fantastic shapes by winds which left the lower
atmosphere undisturbed.

Kate sat on a low stool with her hand in that
of Mrs. Stephens. She was somewhat timid
during a storm ; not that she feared for her

personal safety, but the thunder seemed to her
like the voice of an awful and invisible presence ;
and she could no more have laughed or lightly
jested while it lasted than she could have done
in church.

When a child, had she happened to be
naughty before it came, a storm always softened
her, and led her to a repentance, which sometimes
would endure for many days.

Both Mrs. Stephens and Kate were tired.
The latter part of the day had been oppressively
warm, and there had been an unusual stir and
excitement during the past week. Thus they
were glad to sit, silent, exchanging but a few
words now and then.

Presently they were joined by the Major and
Sydney Ferrars, and almost immediately a vivid
flash of lightning came, half blinding them,
followed by a rattling, crashing peal of thunder,
sounding like a volley of artillery discharged
close overhead. A minute more, and the rain,
which had kept back so long, descended in
mighty torrents from the surcharged and thick
black clouds.

'* Where is father ? " at length asked the girl,
in the interval which followed a second crash

of thunder, though one not quite so loud as the
first.

'' He left us when you did," replied the
Major, 'rand went to the study,"

I will go and see if he wants anything,"
said Kate, rising and leaving the room.

She soon returned.

'' Father has fallen asleep in his chair," she
said. ** I am afraid he must be very tired to
sleep during this loud thunder. I drew the
curtains and lighted the candles so that the
lightning may not wake him ; besides, it will be
quite dark when he does wake."

It was already becoming very dark, and the
lightning looked grand and terrible in the
deepening gloom. For half-an-hour the storm
raged with unabated fury, and the four sat
watching the frequent flashes without speaking.
By degrees the lightning became less vivid, and
the thunder more distant. The rain then
ceased, and the heavy clouds soon began to
break, leaving a clear sky above. Once more
the air felt fresh and cool, and the friends began
to talk in undertones.

At ten o'clock a servant entered, as was the
custom, to make preparation for evening prayers.

VOL. I. 8

Major and Mrs. Stephens were such frequent
and intimate visitors that no change was made
in this respect on their account.

Kate rose and left the room, saying that she
must wake her father if he were still asleep.
The others waited in silence for her return,
and Mrs. Stephens was beginning to wonder
what could be keeping her so long when a cry
of anguish rang through the old house.

They involuntarily sprang to their feet, and
Mrs. Stephens turned very white.

*' I fear that the rector may be taken ill," she
exclaimed ; '' I must go and see."

As she hurried through the hall, the frightened
servants, who were assembling there, drew
back to let her pass. The study door stood
open, and she entered.

A first glance revealed Kate's prostrate form,
lying in the arms of Mrs. Vale. The girl's face
was white and unconscious as the dead ; and
tears were streaming from old Mamsie's eyes
as she bent lovingly over her darling.

Her second glance sought for Mr. Galbraith.
He sat in his arm-chair beside the writing-table
his head leant back in an attitude of profound
repose, and he appeared to be sleeping peacefully.

But it was a sleep from which even the
voice of his beloved child had failed to wake
him.

His face wore an expression of great calm,
and a smile of tender joy and sweetness rested
upon his lips. It was as if, at the moment
when his feet touched the brink of the dark
river, he had caught sight of the glories which
lay beyond  as if his soul, when released from
its earthly tabernacle, had left a reflection of
the bliss it entered on the frail clay.

A LONG FAREWELL.

Early next morning, tolling slowly and
solemnly, the passing bell assisted to spread
the news both far and wide, over hill and dale,
to rich and poor, that the good old rector had
been called away.

Men going to their work and meeting others
asked, 

'' Who is the bell tolling for ? "

And the reply came always with more or
less of affectionate regret, 

Don't you know? 'tis for the rector  he
was taken quite sudden last night."

Women looked from their cottage doors,
and, calling to the passers-by, asked the
same question ; and their more easily moved
emotions would often bring a burst of tears
when they heard that their faithful pastor.

and friend of years, had been gathered to his
rest. 

To many it seemed, indeed, as if they had
lost a second father, so bound up was the
rector with every event of importance in their
Ives. He it was who had baptized them at
the font, taught them in the schools, and
prepared their minds for confirmation ; in later
years had pronounced their marriage blessing
at the altar, then afterwards had received the
babes from their proud young arms, when in
their turn they brought their little ones to be
baptized.

Nor was their grief a selfish one; for all
remembered the bright young girl who had
grown up among them, the first to sympathize
in their every sorrow. Honest, kindly prayers
were offered up on her behalf in this hour of
her bereavement ; and the eyes of many a
hard-working man and woman grew dim, until
they were obliged to pause from labour and
brush away the tears.

'' Poor, dear young thing ! " they said.
'when death comes 'tis all the same ; be you
poor or be you rich, it leaves a sore heart
behind."

Slowly and solemnly tolled the deep bell
seventy strokes it tolled, for the seventy
years, the allotted term of man's existence 
years too many if they have been idly wasted,
leaving no mark behind but one perchance of
harm ; too few, if they have been years of
loving ministry like those of the good old
rector.

It was Barnes's duty to toll the bell ; and he
looked upon it in the light of a most sacred
charge. Not for worlds, so long as his strength
remained, would he allow another to take his
place, or even to render him assistance. It
seemed to him that in some mysterious way he
was helping the souls of friends and neighbours
on their journey to another world ; and as he
tolled he would think of this, and derive a
solemn pleasure from the thought. This was
with him an unexpressed belief, but as deeply
rooted as that of the red Indian, when he
shoots the favourite steed beside the grave of a
dead hero, believing that the warrior and his
horse will come together in new and distant
hunting grounds.

Old Barnes had much time for reflection
while he tolled those seventy strokes, with long

pauses between each one. He, too, thought of
Kate, whom he had lately seen blithe and gay
among the children ; he, too, found unbidden
tears rising to his eyes and trickling down his
furrowed, weather-beaten cheeks; and from
time to time his rough and knotty hand was
used to brush the tears away.

The news of Mr. Galbraith's death brought
true sorrow to the inmates of Belton Hall.
Mrs. North, cold and self restrained though
she might be, had a sincere regard for the
rector. His loss must leave a blank that
could never be replaced among her yearly
narrowing circle of old friends, and which it
was not in her nature to recruit with new
ones.

Her first feeling was one of relief that all her
guests, except Constance, were departing.

But Mrs. North was mistaken in thinking
that she would retain the pleasure of her niece's
society.

It did not at all agree with Miss Erskine's
views to remain unnecessarily in a house where
sorrow reigned, if only in a secondary degree.
Besides, she soon perceived that much of
Roger's time would be taken up until after the

rector's funeral ; and as one of her principal
objects for staying at the Hall was to attract
her cousin, she no longer cared to remain when
the opportunity failed her for carrying such a
purpose into practice. Hence she made up her
mind to go north to the house of some friends,
who would be ready to welcome her on receipt
of a telegram. She knew perfectly well that
her aunt would be displeased by this change of
plan ; but trusted to the facility she possessed
of putting things in such a way as to appear to
be consulting only the convenience of others,
when, in reality, her own pleasure was the
mainspring of her action.

Constance did not overrate her powers, and
left the Hall still high in the good opinion of
her aunt. Mrs. North parted from her most
affectionately, arranging that they should meet
in a week's time at Carlisle, en route for
Scotland ; and promised, if possible, that Roger
should be there also.

Thus Mrs. North was once more alone with
her son ; and, softened by the presence of
death, she was ready to allow him, without
molestation, to obey every dictate of his heart,
which prompted him to supply a brother's place

to the orphaned girl, both for her own sake,
and, hardly less, for the love and honour he
bore to her late father.

And Roger, what were his feelings when he
heard how quickly the forebodings had been
realized which Mr. Galbralth had so lately
expressed to him ? They were very real, and
very deep. He had loved the rector almost
as he would a father. He had ever found in
him a considerate friend ; and had been accustomed
for years to appeal to him as he would
have done to his own father, for counsel and
advice in many things. Then for Kate  how
poignantly he felt for her grief ! how he longed
for more than the right of a friend to share it
with her, and by his love and sympathy to
minister to her consolation.

Major Stephens had sent a messenger to the
Hall immediately on the discovery of the
rector's death, and early next morning Roger
hastened to the rectory. He found Sydney
Ferrars on the point of departure ; and the
unfeigned concern visible on his face caused
the hand-grasp between the two to be more
cordial than it had been before.

"This Is awfully sad," said Sydney. ''I

don't half like going, and yet I am in the way,
and don't see what else there is for me todo.
I would give anything to be able to offer
some help to poor Miss Galbraith ; but of
course I can't, and I envy you your greater
usefulness as an old friend. I have asked Mrs.
Stephens to tell her some time how sorry I
am to leave like this, without saying good-bye.
As likely as not I may never see her again, as
I suppose I shall be returning before long to
that infernal hole in South America."

Roger was sensible of a keen joy as he heard
these concluding words. They were walking
towards the stable-yard, and there found the
pony carriage, once more in readiness for
Sydney's use, with Sam to drive as before ; but
the groom's gay, rollicking manner was gone,
and old Rufus himself could not have been
more grave and solemn.

Major Stephens did not wait to trust me
with the telegram to summon Mr. Beaumont,"
remarked Sydney. ''He sent it this morning
as soon as he thought the office would, be
open. Fortunately Miss Galbraith knew of
an address which would find her uncle, as it
appears he has just gone abroad.

*' Indeed?" said Roger. "Then he cannot
be here for several days."

I suppose Miss Galbralth will go and Herewith
him now ? " enquired Sydney.

Yes, I suppose so," replied the other.

There was no more time to delay if Sydney
were to catch the train. They bade each other
good-bye, and Roger watched the carriage
out of sight, little thinking with what feelings
he should regard Sydney Ferrars the next
time they met.

On his returning to the house. Major
Stephens stood on the threshold ; and they
went together to the dining-room, where they
found Mrs. Stephens still sitting at the breakfast
table.

Roger had refrained from asking Sydney
Ferrars any questions relating to Kate ; her
grief was too hallowed in his eyes, and lay too
near his heart, to bear mentioning to a comparative
stranger. But he had no need to
make any inquiries of Mrs. Stephens ; for, unasked,
she poured forth the fullest details of all
that had occurred. She ended by telling him
that, after the first outburst of grief which
followed her recovery from the swoon, Kate

had been much calmer, and more self-controlled
than she had ventured to expect. " In fact,"
concluded the kind lady, wiping away some
tears, " I do not believe the dear child has cried
so much as I have. I have insisted on her
remaining upstairs at present, as she is worn
out both in mind and body ; but I do not think
we have any cause for alarm as to the effect
this great shock may have upon her health.
However, I must go now and see after her ;"
and Mrs. Stephens hurried away.

Left alone, the two friends found much to
talk over.

*' It is very unfortunate," began the Major,
with some little importance, '' that there is no
chance of Beaumont's arriving for several days.
This makes it absolutely necessary that you
and I should take all arrangements into our
own hands. We must do our best, but neither
of us being relations it is awkward, very  eh,
North ?"

Roger informed the Major of what had
passed, on the previous day, between Mr.
Galbraith and himself respecting the will.

'' Then you are named joint executor and
trustee," said the Major, a little crest-fallen.

'well ! that will take all responsibility off my
shoulders, but of course you can command my
assistance in anything. At all events, I have
done no harm in taking upon myself to
telegraph to Beaumont."

Roger assured him to the contrary ; and
they found enough to occupy them, both
on that day and those that immediately followed.


There were no other near relations to summon.
Major and Mrs. Stephens remained at the
rectory, as a matter of course, to take care of
the orphaned girl. Except her sister Mary,
so far away, she possessed no near female
relative. Mr. Galbraith had been among the
youngest of his family ; and, dying himself an
old man, had survived all his brothers and
sisters ; and it happened that no great intimacy
had been kept up with their children, scattered
as these were both far and wide. On the
mother's side, Mr. Beaumont and a cousin,
hardly known to Kate, were the sole surviving
relations ; thus the girl doubly needed the
sympathy of her kind friends.

The account Mrs. Stephens had given to
Roger, that Kate's grief was neither wild nor

passionate, was a true one. She woke, indeed,
in the morning from the deep sleep into which
exhaustion had thrown her with the strange,
heavy sensation that something terrible  she
knew not what  had happened ; a feeling which
all have experienced in times of sudden calamity
or sorrow. Then the toll of the passing
bell fell upon her ear, and she remembered that
she was an orphan.

But even in the hours of sorest grief, the
tender-hearted and unselfish can find a consolation
in the thought that their great loss
is the lost one's greater gain. From the first,
Kate was able to rejoice that her father had
been spared the trial of farewell to her, and
that his long years of mourning for her mother
were at last ended. But, when she knelt by
her bedside, and remembered that no longer
could she pray for his earthly needs  then the
natural tears would have their way.

From her constant ministrations in the homes
of the poor, Kate was too familiar with the
aspect of death to regard it with any fear or
shrinking ; and for the first two days it washer
greatest comfort to steal alone into the
room, where the beloved form lay, and gaze

upon the features so soon to be hidden from
her sight. On the evening of the second day
the coffin was closed, and she could only bear
witness to her love by keeping it fair and
beautiful with flowers.

She clung more closely and affectionately
to those around her, especially to her dear
old nurse and Mrs. Stephens. After the first
day, she went about the house much as usual ;
and though her face was pale and sad, and her
gay laugh hushed, she could still smile in
response to the kindly efforts made to cheer
and support her.

It made one heart ache, with perhaps a
sharper pain than her own, to see her thus ;
but Roger's delicate and unselfish nature restrained
him from the slightest show of more
than a brother's sympathy.

Kate was willing, and even eager, to give
her help in anything that concerned her father;
and wrote herself to one or two of his oldest
friends, whom she felt sure would desire to pay
the last tribute to his remains.

And thus the quiet, sad days sped slowly on,
until the fifth evening after Mr. Galbraith's
death found Major and Mrs. Stephens awaiting

the arrival of Mr. Beaumont, whom Roger
North was to drive from the station.

Kate had gone upstairs, thinking she would
rather not be present when her uncle came.

The Major was pacing restlessly up and
down the room. After a while he paused by
his wife.

*' It will be a sad change for us, my dear,"
he said, "when this house passes into other
hands. I can't bear to think of it. Ah well !
one never knows what is coming ; and I little
thought when the dear old rector told us he
was going into the study that it was the last
time I should hear his voice. And we shall
sadly miss this bright young girl, who has
helped to cheer our dull middle age."

'' Yes, indeed," replied Mrs. Stephens, with
a sigh ; '' but I want to speak a word to you
about her, Robert, before Mr. Beaumont
arrives. I cannot bear the idea that she should
go away with him at once, no female friend
at hand ; so I wish to propose a plan. I
believe it will be for the best that she should
leave Belton as soon as possible, and be spared
the pain of seeing new people settling themselves
in the old home. The young feel such

things very keenly. It would be no good
taking her to our house. But my idea is that
she should go with me to some quiet seaside
place in Devonshire. You could settle us
there ; and then visit among your old friends
for some shooting, and look us up now and
then. What do you say ? If you agree, I
will speak about it to Mr. Beaumont this
evening."

The Major's rule of life was to fall in with
his wife's plans ; sometimes, for the sake of
appearances, he made a show of resistance, but
on this occasion he felt too depressed to assert
himself Besides, there was nothing in the
proposal contrary to his inclinations, and if
there had been, his kind heart would have
prompted a sacrifice of his own wishes for the
sake of Kate : hence he gave his wife full
permission to act as she thought best.

The sound of approaching wheels put an
end to their conversation, and in a few minutes
they were exchanging greetings with Mr.
Beaumont.

He was a man still on the right side of sixty ;
for although the friendship with his brother-in-law
dated from Oxford days, they were not

VOL. I. 9

undergraduates together. Mr. Galbraith had
been the younger man's college tutor, and the
acquaintance thus begun had ripened as years
went on ; and both remained resident at
Oxford until Mr. Galbraith accepted the living
of Belton, which was in the gift of his college.

Mr. Beaumont's appearance was undeniably
prepossessing. He was above middle height,
well-built, and his face was of a decidedly
aristocratic character ; while his iron-grey hair
harmonized well with his regular and strongly-defined
features. His manner was remarkable
for its extreme courtesy, and he was a great
favourite among ladies and young people. But
with all his deference for women, he had never
yet found one for whose sake he was willing
to renounce his freedom. He was unfeignedly
distressed by the news which had overtaken
him on his summer rambles ; and when Kate
returned to the drawing-room he came forward
and took both her hands in his, kissing her
affectionately, as he said, 

You must look upon me as a second
father, my dear."

However, when, later on, Mrs. Stephens
found an opportunity of mentioning the project

she had near her heart, he was most profuse
in his thanks for her kindness and affection
towards his niece ; and willingly agreed to
leave her in the lady's charge until he returned
in November to his London residence,
which for the future would be Kate's home.

In the course of their conversation, Mrs.
Stephens was delighted to find that Mrs. Vale
would not be separated from Kate. Mr.
Beaumont well knew her valuable qualities.
She had been an inmate of his house some
years ago, before his sister married ; and he
had already made up his mind to offer her
the responsible post of housekeeper. It was
late before Mrs. Stephens and Mr. Beaumont
said good-night, mutually pleased with the
arrangements they had made for Kate.

Once more the bell was tolling solemnly
from the church-tower ; and the churchyard
was thronged with those who wished to pay
the last tribute of love and respect to the
rector. There was none of the pomp of
woe in the simple ceremony  nothing but the
far more precious homage of loving hearts.
From the first Kate had desired to follow her
father to the grave. Mrs. Stephens tried in

vain to dissuade her, thinking it would be
too great a trial for her strength ; but afterwards
she was glad that her well-meant efforts
had been unsuccessful ; for the sight of rich
and poor gathered together, all so truly mourning,
was one which could not fail to bring a
sweet consolation to the daughter's loving
heart. Tenderly and reverently the coffin
was borne on the shoulders of men to whom
the burden was a labour of love ; tenderly and
reverently it was lowered into the grave, and
covered with fair flowers, offerings of affection
and symbols of purity ; quietly and sorrowfully
the crowd dispersed, and left behind in the old
churchyard one more grave which would not
soon be forgotten.

Roger North felt a great reluctance to carry
out the plan his mother had formed for their
round of visits in Scotland, but her heart was
set upon it. There was no reason that he
could openly allege against it, though never
had he been less inclined for the gaieties of
country visits. When he found that Kate was
going away almost immediately with Mrs.
Stephens, he had to own, with a sigh, that for
her sake it was wisely planned.

It reconciled him, in a measure, to his enforced
absence from Belton, only he would have
dearly liked to remain there at least until her
departure. But even Mrs. Stephens was disposed
to hunt him away. She threw out a
suggestion that it would be necessary for him
to go and see Mr. Beaumont when the latter
returned to town and Kate was domiciled in
his house ; and hinted that the girl would be
best left alone for the present. So it fell out
that the day after the rector's funeral Roger
came to the rectory to see Mr. Beaumont and
to say good-bye. When the two had finished
their business, Roger went to seek Kate in the
garden, where he learnt that she had gone.

He found her on a favourite garden seat,
and poor old Rover by her side ; the faithful
dog regarding her with wistful eyes, as though
he would ask whither her gay spirits had fled.
The girl's heavy black dress made her appear
fairer and paler than of yore; and the smile
with which she greeted Roger had in itself a
pathos different to the arch playfulness that
used to suit her face so well.

I have come to bid you good-bye, Kate,"
he said, as he took her hand.

*' Then you really go tomorrow, Roger ? "

*' Yes," he replied, as he sat down by her side.

His heart was full to overflowing, and words
failed him ; only on one subject could he have
poured forth his thoughts with eloquence ; but
to speak of his love when her grief was still so
fresh would have appeared to him as sacrilege.
Thus Fate sealed his lips, and words remained
unspoken which might have changed the
current of their lives, and saved each one from
a world of suffering.

Kate was the first to break the silence.

'' Mrs. Stephens has been telling me this
morning that she has written already for lodgings,
and we are to go away in a week or ten
days, at the latest. I would much rather stay
here with Mamsie to the last ; there will not
even be time to say good-bye to everyone in
the village. But," she added, with a shadow of
her old pout, "Mrs. Stephens is very unkind,
and says it will be better that I should not ;
and that I can come and stay with her very
soon, and see them all again."

The girl gazed lovingly at the scene she
knew so well  the old house, the church
beyond, and then resumed, 

*' How Strange it will be to live in London
after dear, dear Belton ! Mamsie will be the
only bit of the old home there. But you will
come and see me very soon when I go to
uncle's, won't you, Roger ? " and she turned
towards him, with her pretty, pleading manner.

'eyes, indeed I will," he replied, earnestly,
thinking it would be impossible that anything
could prevent his doing so.

I have a favour to ask you," said Kate,
after another pause. " Will you take care of
my poor old Rover for me ? I cannot bear to
part with him ; but I don't think uncle would
like him in the house;" and the tears dimmed
her sight as she laid one hand caressingly on
the old dog's head.

Of course I will," said Roger  " you cannot
doubt it." Then he looked at his watch.

It is hard to say good-bye, but I must go
now, Kate."

I will go with you to the house then," she
said, and rose at once.

Roger felt he would rather have spoken his
farewell to her there, with no other witness than
the sky, and trees, and flowers ; but he said
nothing, and they went indoors, where they

found Major and Mrs. Stephens waiting to seethe
last of him.

The hearts of all were full ; all felt it was the
breaking up of the intimate companionship
which had made the life at Belton so sweet and
pleasant. Major Stephens tried to be jocular,
and rallied Roger on the number of grouse he
was to shoot. Mrs. Stephens laughed at her
husband's feeble attempts at cheerfulness, because
she felt inclined to cry. But it was of
no use to prolong the parting, and Roger
neither saw nor heard anything after he held
Kate's slender fingers in his strong grasp for
the last time. No words would come to his lips ;
but before he withdrew his long and earnest
gaze, there was a slight flush on her face, which
sent him away with the sweet hope that she
had at last awoke to a faint consciousness of
his love.

NOT AN UNCOMMON CASE,

It Is of no use to talk about It any longer
I cannot do It, and there's an end of the
matter ! "

The speaker was a well-dressed, well-preserved
man, a good way past middle age ; the
place, the dining-room of a handsome house In
Regent's Park. The table was spread with fair
linen, costly silver, and the remains of a late
breakfast. Through lace curtains, which shaded
the windows, a well-appointed brougham could
be seen standing at the door ; and the horse
was pawing the ground as if impatient at being
kept waiting longer than its high spirit could
well brook.

The one other occupant of the room was
Sydney Ferrars. He was leaning on the back
of an arm-chair which stood at the head of the

table. His face wore a very different expression
to that which it had carried during his visit to
Belton Rectory, for now it was one of intense
dissatisfaction and gloom, while with nervous
fingers he pulled fiercely at his silky moustache.

The elder man stood with his back to a cheerful
fire, and held the Ti77tes in his hand, making
the paper crackle frequently as he involuntarily
jerked it in his irritation.

*' No," he repeated, " it's of no use for you
to ask me for another five thousand. When
you went to South America, three years ago,
I thought I had set you up for life. Your
cousin, George Ramsay, had no more capital
to start with than you had, and he has done
very well."

'you forget," said Sydney, morosely, 'george
had some money with his wife."

"Very well," replied his father sharply, "follow
his example, and find a wife with a fortune. I
don't know of what use your good looks, and your
talent for singing and acting, have ever been,
except to lead you into mischief ; turn them to
some account, and captivate a lady who possesses
some of the needful. That's the best
advice I can give."

I don't see how I can do that," said Sydney,
with a bitter laugh. '' I must return to South
America to be sold up."

'' Oh ! you can stop here any reasonable
time," remarked Mr. Ferrars, '' I am not going
to turn you out of doors ; but to give you v
thousand in hard cash is a different matter.
You must remember you are not an only son.
And," he added, with an increasing air of
annoyance, "there was a letter from Charlie
only yesterday, about some debts he must pay
off before leaving Malta. Then there are
Reginald's expenses at Oxford. You boys
seem to think I am made of money, and forget
that it has been gained by the hard work which
you all despise. Frederick is the only one that
I can fairly consider off my hands. Then the
girls are no slight expense ; luckily Gertrude
and Frances have married well. With you, it
has always been the same  never satisfied ;
first trying one thing, and then another, and
always wanting something you could not get.
I told you, when you chose to go sheep-farming,
that it was the last start you might expect from
me ; in spite of which you turn up in three
years' time, and want more money."

You forget, sir," said Sydney, " that the
life was no choice of mine ; you almost forced
me into it. I would rather have tried my luck
on the stage."

'stage indeed!" retorted Mr. Ferrars, now
thoroughly angry. *' No son of mine shall ever
follow that profession. If he did, I would disown
him, and he should never darken these
doors again."

At least you must admit," said Sydney,
with rising colour, "that if you put a fellow
into a position for which he is thoroughly unsuited,
the result is likely to be disastrous."

The angry reply which trembled on the
father's lips was arrested by the appearance of
a footman, who entered to clear the breakfast
table. The excited voices caused him to hesitate
a moment through a fear that he was intruding;
and before he had time to retreat his
master's wrath was diverted to himself.

Mr. Ferrars used some strong language ;
and then, "Go away, James," he ended, angrily;
can't you see when you are not wanted ? "

James disappeared more quickly than he
came ; but the slight diversion had given Mr.
Ferrars time to remember that his brougham

had been standing at the door some half-hour.


He waited a moment to cool down before
delivering his last word.

'' You have my final answer, Sydney. If you
are in. difficulties you must find your own way
out of them. And think of my advice about
a rich wife. No doubt," he added, with an unpleasant
sneer, '' your mother and sisters can
help you in that matter better than I can."

With this he left the room ; and Sydney,
whose gloomy countenance had by no means
brightened during the conversation, strolled to
the window and watched his father rapidly
descend the steps, give his orders in a short
sharp voice, and enter the carriage, which
quickly disappeared round the street corner.

The footman re-entered the room, and was
removing the breakfast things. Sydney looked
round, and scowled at him. The man's movements
were quiet enough, but Sydney was in a
mood when the merest trifle will cause irritation.
Then he turned on his heel, and passing
through the door, ascended the staircase with
the reverse of a light step  or light heart either,
if his step were an indication of his heart.

The drawing-room that he entered, as well
as the larger one into which it opened by wide
folding doors, was lofty and spacious. Both
were handsomely furnished, and the smaller
apartment bore abundant traces of the musical
tastes prevalent in the family. A grand piano
was there of course ; and a harp, a violin, and
various smaller instruments were distributed
about the room.

By the window sat a girl, apparently four or
five-and-twenty years of age. Tall, and of
a well-proportioned, though fully developed,
figure, she possessed a brilliant complexion,
dark hair, and deep blue eyes, which gave hera
more than common claim to be called good-looking.


She was engaged in painting, with a creditable
amount of skill, a design of birds and
flowers, on a china plate. As Sydney entered
she looked up quickly and anxiously.

*' Well ! did you speak to papa again before
he went out ?"

Yes," he replied, gloomily ; '* I pressed It
on him as much as I dared, but "

Here the girl laid her fingers on her lips,
and glanced towards the fireplace.

Sydney's eyes turned in the same direction.

*' Oh, that tiresome child is there ! Yes,
you are right, ' Little pitchers have long ears.
Send her away, can't you, Julia?"

Julia nodded in acquiescence.

'' Barbara," she said, " take your book to
the school-room ; or, if there is no fire thereto
the work-room. You are in the way
here."

The child, as Sydney had called her, was
a girl of fourteen ; but from her appearance
it would have been hard to judge her age ;
for her body was small and her face wizened.

Poor child ! she had nothing of the freshness
of youth to attract admiration. Rather she
was a painful contrast to those about her. She
sat on a low basket-chair, close by the fire,
her head supported by small bony fingers, as
it bent low over the pages of a book that
rested on her knee. The sallow hue of constant
ill-health tinged her cheeks, and gave
a drawn look to her peevish features. The
eyes were her sole redeeming characteristic ;
they were large, dark, and intelligent. When
she rose sulkily, in obedience to Julia's command,
which had been a second time repeated,

she limped painfully across the room, and a
slight deformity in her back became apparent.

" I wish Barbara's health were better," murmured
Julia, half to herself, '' so that it would
be worth while to have a governess to look
after her, and keep her out of the way."

The girl evidently heard the remark, fora
look of anger darted from her eyes as she
left the room, which she did muttering to
herself, and slamming the door behind her.

Meanwhile, Sydney had looked into the
larger room to satisfy himself that it was
unoccupied ; and then sat down in the low
chair which Barbara had vacated.

Julia was the first to speak.

" I am afraid by your face that you have
not been successful. What did papa say ? "

Say ! " repeated Sydney, with bitterness ;
'said that he would not give me another
farthing. A nice sort of father, to live in all
this luxury, when the want of a few thousands
means ruin, absolute ruin, to me ! "

Is it indeed so bad as that?" said Julia,
laying down .her paint-brush, and turning to
her brother with much concern. "Oh! it
can't be ; surely you exaggerate  you had

such a good sum to start with three years
ago."

'' Not a bit of it, Julia. I have not told you
the worst. I have debts  debts that will cause
the place to be sold up, if I return to Buenos
Ayres without money to pay them."

'what sort of debts?" asked Julia, uneasily.


Well, if you will have it, some of them
are debts of honour."

'' Oh, Sydney ! " exclaimed his sister,
'' surely you have never been so mad as again
to ''

Yes, I have," he interrupted, " if you
choose to call it mad. But how can a man
live in a dull hole like that without a little
excitement ? I do not see how my father
could expect anything else when he sent me
there."

'' Did you tell him all this?"

Rather not ! " he replied, with a bitter
laugh ; '' I made my case as good as I could
without confessing that."

'what can be done?" said Julia, mournfully.


"Done! I don't know  hang myself perhaps.

VOL. I. 10

I might as well do that as what the governor
proposes  sell myself to a rich wife."

Did he really suggest that you should
marry?" asked Julia, eagerly.

'' Yes, always provided that the lady had
a fortune to support me with,  that plan would
cost him nothing."

"Well, Syd," his sister said, reproachfully,
I have told you the same thing myself.
Look at Sophy Burns ; she would have accepted
you in a moment had you asked her
last June when you returned home. Now it
is too late ; she is to be married next month."

"Yes, and the man, whoever he be, is
welcome to her  Gorgon that she is, notwithstanding
her five thousand a year! I don't
think I could do it for fifty thousand, unless it
were arranged for us to live apart."

You cannot have everything, Syd ; and
she was really a very nice girl. But seriously,
a marriage of that kind is the only thing that I
can see to help you out of your difficulties."

Well, it must be managed quickly then ; for
I have a letter by this mail from Thorpe, who
says that my creditors are getting impatient,
and that he must soon know something positive,

or he won't be able to keep their hands off the
place much longer."

'' Can't you put him off with promises, while
you gain time to look round ? "

'' I have done a good deal of promising
already, Julia ; but I must try again."

At this moment the door of the other room
was opened, and the sound of voices came
through the half-closed folding-doors.
Sydney looked round annoyed.
'* There's the mother," he said, in a low tone,
and that horrid old gossiping friend of hers,
Lady Avery. Her ears would detect a scandal
through ten brick walls, so we must not talk
here any longer. Come to the billiard-room,
there's a good girl ; I want a cigar, and perhaps
that will have a soothing effect."

I will bring my painting," said Julia, beginning
to gather her materials together.

'' No, no," said Sydney, " leave those things
here, an you love me. I want all your
attention."

Julia looked at her birds and leaves regretfully.
They were just in the state when a
few touches would make a marvellous improvement
; but then she was a good-natured girl in

her way, and really fond of her brother ; so
she wiped her brushes and put them by.

This done, she followed Sydney to the
billiard-room, which had been built out from
the back of the house. Here there was no
chance of interruption, and an hour or more
was passed in discussion of a kind all sisters
know, and whose salient points consist of
great demands upon their sympathy and little
attention being paid to their advice.

The Ferrars family was a large one, consisting
of four sons and five daughters. Two
of the daughters, one older and one younger
than Julia, were married. The fourth, Mabel,
had been introduced during the past season.
She was almost a beauty, and Mrs. Ferrars
hoped to see her marry well like Gertrude and
Frances, and make up for the disappointment
she felt at seeing Julia single at five-and-twenty.
However, it was Mrs. Ferrars' role to be the
trumpeter of her children's merits, and she did
not fail to whisper to her many friends that
Julia did not remain single for lack of offers.
Only she is very particular," she added, "and
her talents and superiority make her desire to
find a man to whose intellect she can bow."

With Mabel ended the ambition of Mrs.
Ferrars as regarded her daughters. As for
Barbara, she was considered a blot in a family,
distinguished for well-proportioned limbs and
handsome faces. From babyhood she had been
unlike the rest ; always sickly from the first, while
they were never ailing ; and constantly suffering
great pain, which the doctors could not cure,
butt did sometimes alleviate. Her mother
always spoke of her as " my poor afflicted child,'
and the pitying tone, when overheard by Barbara,
acted as gall on a naturally proud and resentful
temper.

Poor child ! if placed in a home where she
could have found more sympathy she might
have proved a very different character ; but
thrown as she was among those who esteemed,
as good things above all else, health and
pleasure and beauty and riches, she became
a misery to herself and a constant source of
irritation to her family. *

Of the sons, Frederick, the eldest, was now
past thirty. His parents felt great pride in
his career, for he had always been successful 
at school, at college, and later at the Bar. He
was careful in money matters, and continued to

live with the family when not on circuit ; in all
which he was a great contrast to Sydney. Of
the two younger sons, Charles, the third, was
a gay young officer ; while Reginald, who was at
Oxford, took more after Frederick.

Mr. Ferrars himself was a man who had
worked hard at his profession, and attained
success ; but when the day's work was over
he loved to be at ease and quiet, and took no
real trouble about the welfare of his children.
So long as he paid for their education, and
started them in life, he thought that he had
done his duty, and concerned himself little
about their characters or failings. He enjoyed
their companionship in his leisure hours so long
as they entertained him by their high spirits or
accomplishments ; but directly they gave him
trouble he became irritable, and sometimes
unreasonable.

The mistakes made by Mrs. Ferrars were of
a different nature. No harsh word ever passed
her lips, but she spoiled her children by a fond
and foolish adulation. Her sons especially
she was never tired of praising, either before
their faces or to anyone who could be induced to
listen. She was a vain woman, with a great

desire to rise in society ; and never lost an
opportunity, or spared any pains, or heeded any
rebuff, if she thought it possible to gain a step
by forcing her acquaintanceship on those whose
position was above her own. In this her
husband neither thwarted nor assisted her, but
on one point was always obdurate. It was a
daily trial to her ambition that they should
reside in so unfashionable a locality as the
Regent's Park ; and she would dearly have
loved to move her household gods even to
a smaller and less convenient mansion were it
in Belgravia or Mayfair. But it was in vain
that she endeavoured to make Mr. Ferrars
adopt this view.

He preferred comfort to fashion, and he knew
that an increased rental would necessitate the
curtailment of luxuries which he valued more
than the honour of living among the creme de
la crime.

Such were the home influences among which
Sydney Ferrars had grown to manhood; and
perhaps of all her sons he was the greatest
favourite with his mother, and had been the
most indulged. The charm of his handsome
face, winning manners, and good voice, would

have been apt to blind any mother to his failings
; and a woman like Mrs. Ferrars looked no
deeper than the surface. His personal accomplishments
made her hope for great things, and
she was terribly disappointed, when, after wasting
much time in trying first one pursuit and then
another, he had gone to South America. Since
his return she had often racked her brain with
the problem of procuring a rich wife to mend
his fortunes, just as lately had been suggested
by Mr. Ferrars and Julia.

But rich wives to be had for the asking are
not everywhere to be found, and as when the
hawk could not find a heron it had to swoop
down upon a smaller prey, so Sydney Ferrars
had to be contented with the wife whom Fate
threw in his path.

At a later hour, three riding horses were waiting
at the door ; and presently Sydney Ferrars,
with Julia and Mabel, mounted, and rode in the
direction of the Row.

The day was bright and sunshiny, though, as
it was late in October, the air was sufficiently
fresh and crisp to render a gallop pleasant
exercise. They rode slowly through the
crowded thoroughfares, waiting to put their

horses in a canter until they reached the Park,
no longer thronged with equestrians as
during the season. Julia would as soon have
kept to the rides in Regent's Park, but Mabel
thought differently, and carried her point. The
younger girl offered a great contrast to her
brother and sister. She was a small fairylike
creature, with pretty, piquant face ; bright,
waving chestnut hair, and complexion like a
peach. By disposition she was apt to be a
flirt,  not altogether a heartless one, because
in all her affairs, of which she had always one
on hand, she sincerely believed herself to be
in as desperate a condition as her victim for the
time being. So far these flirtations had not
resulted in an engagement, because it happened
that if the man were eligible he had stopped
short before proposing ; while those who had
laid their hearts at her feet had nothing more
substantial to offer, and were quickly dismissed
by the prudent Mrs. Ferrars.

Mabel was far from being unamiable, and
devoted herself to pleasing everybody ; though,
mixed with more unselfish motives, her craving
for admiration contributed a good deal to
produce her amiability. Her brothers used

laughingly to say that Mabel would flirt with
a crossing-sweeper, or an old beggar-woman,
failing any one else with whom to keep her
hand in practice. At the present moment her
heart was in the keeping of a junior clerk at
the Foreign Office, with whom she had been
forbidden to hold further communication ; and
it was in the hopes of an opportunity for
exchanging glances with her disconsolate
lover that she persisted in taking her brother
and sister in the direction of Hyde Park.

The trees already wore a wintry aspect ; the
few leaves yet left were sear and withered,
though away from the smoke of town in many
a country dell and woodland the brightly-tinted
foliage was still in its autumnal glory.

But in spite of the fallen leaves the Park
looked bright and cheerful, and the three spent
more than an hour in cantering along its
pleasant rides. Occasionally they met friends
on horseback, or on foot, with whom they
exchanged a few words ; and then, much to
Mabel's chagrin, they passed through the
Marble Arch and left the Park, and with it all
chance of meeting her junior clerk. As they
turned into the street, two men, who were about

to cross the road, paused to let their horses pass.
The girls bowed to the elder of the two, and
the other also raised his hat, but as If In
courtesy, rather than as claiming their acquaintance.
The girls were nearest the pavement,
while Sydney rode on the outside.

Who was that . " he asked.

" Don't you know ? " replied Julia. '' It was
Mr. Beaumont."

'beaumont!" exclaimed Sydney; "can it
be the same Mr. Beaumont who is Kate
Galbralth's uncle ? "

No doubt of It," said his sister.

How do you come to know him ? I never
remember seeing him before."

'' I don't think papa knew him until after
you went to South America," said Julia. '' But
I wonder you have not happened to see him
since your return ; he Is often at our house
now."

Where does he live ? " asked Sydney.

'' In Portant Place."

*' I wonder who that gentleman was walking
with him ? " said Mabel. " He had such a
pleasant face."

Now I think of it. It must have been

North," answered Sydney. '' I did not recognize
him at the moment."

North ! who is he ?" asked Mabel.

Her brother proceeded to explain, and then
continued, 

'' I wonder if Kate Galbraith is at her uncle's
now. We must find out, Julia, and you
must go with me to call."

'' What is she like ? " inquired Julia.

'* A charming girl  fresh, simple, and pretty,"
was the answer, given with some show of
enthusiasm.

'' Take care, Sydney ! " said Julia, in warning
tones. " Has she any fortune ?"

I neither know nor care," he replied, rather
nettled by the reminder. " I only know she is a
great deal nicer than many who have."

They were in a noisy part of the street, and
Julia employed herself in endeavouring to recall
all that she had heard of Mr. Galbraith' s
fortune, and the likelihood of his daughter
inheriting anything from him which would make
her a prize sufficiently good for Sydney. She
could come to no satisfactory conclusion, and
determined to make enquiries before assisting
her brother to renew the acquaintance begun at

Belton In the summer. If he were to fall in
love with a penniless girl it would be a fatal
step, and she feared an irretrievable one. She
knew Sydney well enough to be aware that it
would be hard under any circumstances to induce
him to pay attention to a woman who did not
take his fancy ; and once in love with another,
It would become simply an Impossibility. She
knew that Mr. Beaumont was a well-to-do, if
not wealthy man, making It not Impossible that
his niece might inherit money from her mother,
and be regarded by her uncle as his heiress.
However, this last point was dismissed as not
worth much consideration ; because If Mr.
Beaumont chose to marry there were plenty of
women willing to accept the position of being
his wife. Though young enough to be his
daughter, Julia had been conscious of a passing
thought that he was a far more agreeable and
satisfactory companion than many of the young
men who fluttered round Mabel, and lay In
waiting to beg for dances when she appeared
in a ball-room.

With this idea Julia had no objections to
cultivate a friendship with Mr. Beaumont's
niece ; but like a prudent sister she determined

to ascertain something about Kate's fortune,
before leading her brother upon dangerous
ground.

By the time they had reached their own door,
and had dismounted from their horses, her
fertile brain had carried her much further into
the possibilities of the future than the mere
preliminary of a morning call.

THE NEW HOME.

It was a dull November day, and a fog hung
over the great city. Not one of its worst fogs,
for it was possible to see across the streets, and
not necessary to light the gas at midday, except
in dark back rooms. There had been a slight
frost during the night, and everything looked
cold and raw and miserable. Thus, at all
events, it appeared to Kate Galbraith as she
stood at one of the drawing-room windows of
Mr. Beaumont's house in Portland Place.

She had been in London just a week.
Major and Mrs. Stephens had brought her
with them from Devonshire, and had accepted
Mr. Beaumont's hospitality for a couple of
nights that they might see her comfortably
settled in her new home.

The parting with Mrs. Stephens had been

a fresh trial to Kate's affectionate nature ; for it
seemed finally to close the leaves of the old
life ; and when the last embrace had been
given, she felt a sensation of shrinking and a
loneliness as she turned her thoughts to the yet
unfamiliar features of the days to come.

The quiet months passed at the sea-side had
done her much good. Mrs. Stephens had
wisely and gradually revived her interest in
those pursuits which, when she came to reside
under her uncle's roof, would help to occupy
her time, and brace her mind to what might,
at first, appear a somewhat lonely existence.
They took long sketching rambles together
along the lovely Devonshire coast ; they found
interesting books to read aloud ; and Mrs.
Stephens took care to hire a piano, and devoted
a good deal of time to improve her taste, and
rouse in her an ambition to attain a greater
proficiency under the tuition of good masters.

With these influences at work, though Belton
and its old pleasures remained none the less
lovingly remembered, Kate arrived in London
determined diligently to avail herself of all the
advantages that would be within her reach.
But beyond the ideas for future occupation

which her kind friend had suggested, she
employed many a quiet hour in thinking out
Httle schemes which were dearer to her heart.
She was like her father, and the craving for
love and sympathy lay deeply implanted in her
nature. She could not be thoroughly happy
without feeling that she was necessary to those
about her, and derived her chief happiness
from ministering to their wants. So, in all her
visions of the future, she pictured herself as
filling the same place at her uncle's as she had
at her father's house.

Again, it seemed strange that there would be
no cottage homes to visit, but she trusted that,
under Mrs. Vale's wing, it might be possible to
go among the London poor. At all events she
thought she might ask for a class in one of the
Sunday-schools, when she came to know the
clergyman of the parish.

Mrs. Vale hailed her arrival with the
greatest delight. Never had the old nurse
known so long a separation from her child.
With Mr. Beaumont's sanction she had taken
the greatest pains to arrange Kate's room, and
make it as much as possible like the old
familiar one at Belton Rectory. The tears

VOL. I. II

Started involuntarily to Kate's eyes when she
entered and looked round. Once more she
saw all her old treasures ; and in addition,
some objects of special value which the faithful
Mamsie had felt sure she would like to have,
and keep constantly in view. Her father's
desk and arm-chair stood near the window ;
close by were some shelves of much treasured
books ; while her mother's portrait, and one of
her father taken when he was a young man,
hung on the walls. Mrs. Vale had forgotten
nothing that she would care for.

'' Dear Mamsie," said Kate, impulsively
throwing her arms round her nurse's neck, " it
is kind of you to have done all this  it makes
it seem like home at once ! "

Mrs. Vale returned the kiss, well pleased at
her success.

"It used to be your dear mamma's room,"
she said, '' and may you only leave it, my dear,
to be as happy a bride as she was." Mr.
Beaumont welcomed his niece very kindly, and
she could not but feel that no pains had been
spared to render her home a pleasant one.

But Kate experienced one great disappointment,
there was no chance of the promised

visit of her old friend Roger North ; and this
was how it happened. Rumours had reached
her, while yet in Devonshire, that Mrs. North
had been taken seriously ill during her visit
to Scotland ; and about the middle of October,,
a long letter came from Roger to Major
Stephens, telling all that had occurred.

The report of Mrs. North's illness was true.
On the eve of leaving Castle Annick, a
sudden and dangerous attack of inflammation
of the lungs had seized her. It was a case-beyond
the skill of the local practitioners in the
Highlands, and a physician had been summoned
from Edinburgh. Under his care the fatal
symptoms were subdued, and she gradually
recovered. When he renewed his visit some
weeks after the first attack, he pronounced her
fit to travel if every precaution were taken ;
but insisted that it was necessary for her to
proceed at once to some warmer climate, and
avoid the risks of an English winter. Mrs.
North, who had never known illness, was
indignant at the mere suggestion, and only
consented to pass the winter at Cannes on the
repeated entreaties of her son. When Roger
wrote their plans were formed. A saloon

carriage had been engaged to convey them
through to London. There they were to resta
few days and obtain further advice, and
Roger would take the opportunity to see Mr.
Beaumont on business relating to Mr. Galbraith's
will. From London they intended to
proceed by easy stages to Cannes, where a
friend had hired a villa and servants to be in
readiness, as Mrs. North disliked the idea of an
hotel.

The letter ended with a postscript : 

'' Tell Kate," it said, " I am much vexed that
I cannot keep my promise to visit her at Mr.
Beaumont's as soon as she comes to town.
Nothing but the state of my mother's health
should have prevented me. However, I hope
when my mother regains strength that I maybe
able to run over to England to attend to my
affairs, and then I will not fail to put in an
appearance at Portland Place."

Strange as it may seem, this simple postscript
had taken Roger more time and trouble to
compose than the whole of the long letter.

Kate regretted very much that she had not
been in town when the Norths passed
through, especially as they did so only a fortnight

earlier than the date of her arrival. She
knew Roger would be very anxious about his
mother's health, and she would much have liked
to meet him, and enjoy one of their old friendly
talks.

But she learnt more particulars from Mrs.
Vale. The latter had been to see Mrs. North's
maid, who was an old friend.

And I saw Madam North herself," said
the nurse, as she was telling Kate about her
visit to Mrs. Prim; 'sadly changed she looked,
poor lady ! her voice so weak and low quite
different to what it used to be, when she always
spoke up so short and sharp. Mr. North, too,
he came here to see Mr. Beaumont, and didn't
look like he used. I daresay he's worried a
deal about his mother; and," added the good
woman, significantly, " it may be his own affairs,
too, have given him something to think of.
Mrs. Prim did tell me that, when they were at
Sir John's, every one was saying that he and
Miss Erskine were to ' make a match of it,' and
she believes, from a word dropped now and
again by Madam North, that they are only
waiting' till the spring for all to be made
public."

It was not from any love of gossip that the
old nurse repeated this piece of news. She did
it with a deliberate intention, and after much
communing with herself. In the old days of
intimacy at Belton the thought had often
crossed her mind that she would like to see her
darling the mistress of Belton Hall. But Mrs.
Vale was not an acute reader of character, and
during the past summer, when Miss Erskine
came to visit at the Hall, so much had been said
of her being the Squire's destined wife, that
this and the lady's exceeding beauty made their
engagement seem more than probable. The
idea thus suggested became fixed in her mind,
and now Mrs. Prim's talk had given it further
strength ; so she thought it would be best for
her child's peace to look upon the marriage as
likely to take place.

That's no fresh news," said Kate, in reply
to this communication. '' But," she added,
thoughtfully, " I am not quite so sure myself
that it is true."

The short afternoon was closing In when
Kate stood at the drawing-room window, and
the fog increased the darkness. The outlook
was not exhilarating to one who loved the

country. Already the girl felt the restraint of
her new life. She had been so accustomed to
come and go, free as air, that it wearied her to
be unable to take a walk unless with her uncle
or attended by one of the upper servants.
Then there had been no time yet to settle down
to her new occupations ; and this day especially
hung rather heavily on her hands. Mr. Beaumont
went out immediately after luncheon without
inviting her to accompany him ; and the
weather was not sufficiently cheerful to make
a stroll in the Regent's Park, with a servant for
companion, a thing to be desired.

Memories of her father and the old life were
fast dimming her eyes ; but suddenly she turned
from the window, and resolutely forced back
the tears.

I must be cheerful and happy," she thought.
I know it is what dear father would wish ;
and it would be an ungrateful return to uncle
for all his kindness if he found me otherwise."

The room was almost dark, save for the firelight,
and Kate was about to ring for lights
when the door opened, and Mr. Beaumont
entered.

"Ah, my dear," he said, as he caught sight

of his niece, 'you are almost in the dark  you
do not understand London ways ; when it is
gloomy out of doors we try and make up for
it by cheerfulness within."

So saying, he rang the bell ; and almost
immediately the butler entered carrying a lamp.
Mr. Beaumont was one of those who did not
like gas ; and gave a preference to the more
agreeable light of wax candles or softly burning
lamps.

"This looks better," he said, settling himself
in an arm-chair, when the butler had drawn the
curtains and shut out the gloomy prospect.
*' What have you been doing all day, Kate ?
I am afraid you will find life rather dull with
only an old bachelor uncle for companion. But
I think you will soon find some friends more of
your own age."

"Shall I, uncle? "said Kate, trying to look
interested.

Yes, my dear," he replied. " I forgot to tell,
you this morning that I met the Ferrars at
dinner last night, and Mrs. Ferrars made a
great many enquiries about you ; and on hearing
that you were with me already, said she and her
daughters would come to call at once."

Kate looked really Interested.

'' Do you mean the family of Mr. Ferrars
who stayed with us last summer ? "

*eyes  relations of your brother-in-law,
George Ramsay. You will find the girls pleasant
companions. Miss Ferrars especially Is a very
superior person, most accomplished. She was
there last night, and seemed exceedingly
anxious to make your acquaintance. I do not
know so much about the younger sister. Such
a crowd of youthful admirers always surrounds
her that she has no time to spare for an old
fellow like me. They are the very people to
consult about masters for you."

I wonder If Mr. Sydney Ferrars has returned
to South America," said Kate musingly.

'' I cannot tell you," replied her uncle ; '' I do
not know much about the young men, except
the eldest, Frederick, who Is a clever fellow, and
a rising barrister''

Mr. Beaumont continued talking for a little
time, and then took up a paper, while his niece
occupied herself with a book.

It was not far from the time for the dressing-bell
to ring when Mr. Beaumont remarked,
I have some friends dining here to-night  all

men, but still, we like to see you look your best,
my dear."

Kate's first feeling was one of dismay ; for
the mourning she had worn since her father's
death was of the simplest description. Then
she remembered that a dressmaker's box had
arrived that afternoon, and was waiting unopened
in her room. For this she had to
thank the forethought of Mrs. Stephens, who
insisted on employing one of the days she had
spent in London in making various additions to
Kate's wardrobe, which she considered would
be necessary to please the taste of Mr. Beaumont,
who was most fastidious in all matters
relating to dress.

In this Mrs. Stephens' discernment of
character had not been at fault, for Mr.
Beaumont was a connoisseur in all questions
of taste, and his house bore ample witness to
the fact. Everything it contained was perfect
of its kind. Each ornament was rare and
valuable, or had some history attached to it,
connected with the owner's wanderings in
foreign lands. For many years Mr. Beaumont
had followed no profession, save that of a
dilettante in art and literature. He had taken

orders when at Oxford, but had never held a
cure ; and on inheriting a good fortune from
his father he left Oxford, and took up his
residence in London, where he gathered round
him the society of men distinguished in the
world of art, literature, or politics. He had
a well-arranged studio, and would often devote
many hours a day to painting in water-colours.
Then again for a period his library would
claim the larger share of his attention ; and
always, though preferring his special coterie,
he mingled a good deal in fashionable society.
Two of the men expected to dinner this
evening were among his oldest and most
intimate friends. They had passed several
years at Eton, and later at Oxford, together.
One, Algerian Seaton, was a star of some
magnitude in the literary world. He was a
leader of thought in his own circle, and his
opinions, though somewhat peculiar, were always
expressed in a graceful and attractive form,
which had procured him a large following of
admiring disciples. The other  Lord Revered
was, like Mr. Beaumont, more of a connoisseur
and critic than an actual competitor in
the lists for the high honours of art or literature.

The third, Francis Rivers, was a young man.
He was an artist of great promise, who had
suddenly found himself all the rage as a portrait
painter ; but he did not forget the earlier and
more struggling times, when he had received substantial
aid and encouragement from Mr. Beaumont,
and came just as often and as willingly to
the house of his old friend as in the days when
other engagements were few and his wants many.

When Kate returned to the drawing-room
she found the others already assembled, and
was met by her uncle with an approving
smile. Her dress was of dull, rich black silk,
relieved by trimmings and ornaments of
sparkling jet ; and though some might have
condemned the style as too old for one so
young, it suited her tall and graceful figure,
and set off her youth and fairness.

In any case, the effect pleased Mr. Beaumont,
who took her hand kindly.

'' Evered," he said, " I think you have met
my niece before, and at all events you well
remember both her parents."

Lord Evered regarded the girl keenly, and
bowed low as he took her hand and claimed a
previous acquaintance.

Introductions to Mr. Seaton and Mr. Rivers
followed ; but when dinner was announced it
fell to Lord Evered's lot to take Kate to the
dining-room. There he devoted himself to
the work of making the time pass pleasantly
to his young companion.

Kate seldom failed to please the taste of
mature men ; for from childhood she had been
the constant companion of those much older
than herself. Though not clever, she could
listen intelligently to their conversation, and
perhaps satisfied them more by her naive
interest and attention than she could have done
by any show of wit or learning.

When dinner was over Kate found her way
to the piano, and began to play softly  airs
from Beethoven and Mozart that had been
favourites with her father, and which were
within the compass of her powers. She became
so absorbed in the music as not to notice
how time was passing ; and when at length she
paused, was almost startled by a voice saying,
Thank you." She turned to find Lord
Evered standing by her side.

'' I was attracted by the music," he said,
smiling. '' I left the others deeply engaged in

discussing the merits of an artist who has just
been harshly judged by the critics."

I am afraid," said Kate, " you will hardly
be rewarded for your trouble."

'* On the contrary," he replied, 'you play
with great taste and feeling. I should like to
hear you play again."

Thus encouraged, Kate continued, and then
Lord Evered pointed out some beauties in the
music, which showed how thoroughly he understood
the subject.

Presently Kate said, somewhat timidly, 'you
used to know my mother, did you not . "

Yes, very well," he answered ; " and though
you more resemble your father in outward
appearance, yet when I hear you speak it
takes me back to days long since  your voice
is just like hers. She used to sing very well.
How often have I listened to her in this very
room ! " Then he added, after a pause, " I
should like very much to hear yozi sing."

The girl laid a pile of music before her
companion.

'* Perhaps you would prefer one of my
mother's old songs," she said.

Lord Evered looked them over. They were

somewhat discoloured by age, and on each
outside sheet the name, *' Ace Beaumont,"
was written In delicate pointed characters. On
some few, and bearing a later date. It was '' Alice
Galbralth." He selected one of the former,
and placed It open on the piano. The song
was printed In small type, and as It only
occupied the double page there were no leaves
to turn over ; so Lord Evered sat down to
listen, shading his face with one hand.

The song was a favourite, and Kate sang her
very best, but she did not guess that behind
the shading hand the eyes of this grey-headed
man were moist with tears.

The song was hardly finished when the
other men appeared, and entreated for more
music. Encouraged by Lord Evered's approbation,
she conquered her natural shyness In
the presence of an audience so critical, and
complied.

Mr. Seaton came to the piano to turn over
the leaves ; while Francis Rivers renal ned at
a distance looking at the group with an artist's
eye.

And It was a pretty picture. The pink-shaded
wax-lights threw a rosy tint like the

first blush of sunrise on the girl, and the dark
curtains served as a background to define the
delicate outlines of her shapely head and
throat.

She would make a better subject to
idealize," he thought, " than many whom I
have to paint  worse luck to it ! "

From that evening dated a fast friendship
between Kate and Lord Evered ; and henceforth
she always looked forward with pleasure
to the days when he was to be her uncle's
guest.

Castle-building.

Much to Kate's delight, the sun rose next day
unobscured by fog ; for Mr. Beaumont had
made an appointment to accompany Lord
Evered and Rivers to a private view of some
pictures, and he had promised to take her with
him.

Directly after luncheon she ran upstairs to
prepare for the drive ; and on returning to the
drawing-room found visitors, and her uncle
entertaining them. The first glance showed
them to be a lady and gentleman, both young ;
the second told her that the gentleman was
Sydney Ferrars.

His presence brought a rush of recollections
connected with the last time that they had been
together. For a few minutes she scarcely
knew what passed, or heard one word of the

VOL. L 12

introduction to Miss Ferrars that followed
her entrance ; and then she found herself
listening to the latter while Mr. Beaumont
talked with Sydney.

'' Mamma had a headache to-day," Julia
was saying, '* or she intended to have come
herself ; and rather than delay the call any
longer she has sent me as a substitute. Sydney
was most anxious to see you again, after the
visit that he enjoyed so much at your house
last summer. I have heard a great deal about
you from him," she added, pleasantly.

Julia's handsome face and cordial manner
attracted Kate at once.

He talked to me about you," she said,
'rand"  with a wistful look  "I have so few
friends in London that it is very nice to meet
somebody who is not quite a stranger.

"Ah!" replied Julia, smiling; "living with
Mr. Beaumont you will soon make plenty of
friends ; that is why we came so soon ; we
wished to steal a march on others, and have
at least a first claim upon your time and
attention."

Kate flushed with pleasure.

You are very kind," she said.

'' Have you been much in town ? " asked
Julia.

'' No, very little. About once a year we
used to pay my uncle a visit."

So much the better. You will find all the
more to interest and amuse you during the
winter ; and you could not be in better hands
than Mr. Beaumont's  he always knows of
everything that is worth seeing or hearing.
For my part, I prefer the winter in town ; there
is time to follow rational pursuits, which is
impossible when the racket of the season once
commences. But all is fresh to you, and, like
my sister Mabel, no doubt you will find your
first season everything that is delightful."

Mr. Beaumont now turned to speak to Julia,
and Sydney moved to a chair by Kate.

I am so delighted to have this opportunity
of meeting you again," he said, in a somewhat
low key. " It is a pleasure that 1 hardly dared
to anticipate."

Yes," she answered ; ' from whatyou told
us I was afraid that you would have returned
to South America by now."

*' How unkind to place so little faith in my
promises ! " said Sydney. '' Have you forgotten

our agreement that I was to take charge of any
parcels that you wished to send to your sister ?
Surely you did not think that I would leave
England without letting you know ? "

His earnest gaze brought the quick colour to
her cheeks.

I  I don't know. I thought perhaps you
might not be acquainted with my address."

'' At least," he said, with some warmth, '' I
have not been long in finding you out. Indeed,
had it rested with me alone, this call would have
been paid a week ago ; but I wanted my mother
or sisters to come with me. I am very anxious
that you should know them, and hope that
they may take the place of some of the old
friends you have left behind at Belton. By the
way, I hear you have been with Major and
Mrs. Stephens until lately ; how did you leave
them?"

After this, the conversation turned to reminiscences
of Belton, a theme dear to Kate's heart,
and into which she threw herself eagerly. But
they had not talked long when Julia rose to
take leave, saying she knew that Mr. Beaumont's
carriage was waiting, and she would not
keep them any longer from their drive.

As soon as the callers had left Mr. Beaumont
and Kate proceeded to keep their appointment.
On being conducted upstairs by the custodian
of the pictures, they found Lord Evered and
Rivers waiting for them.

'' You are behind time, Beaumont," said Lord
Evered, as he shook hands.

"Yes," replied the other; 'ewe were detained
by callers as we were on the point of starting."

I was afraid all the good light would begone
before you arrived," put in Rivers.
Luckily there is no fog to-day, to spoil one
of the best pictures that ever was painted.
Miss Galbraith, I hope you take an interest in
art ? or you may think our criticisms sound
remarkably like prosing."

I shall like to listen, and try to understand,"
she answered, 'rand in any case shall enjoy
looking at the pictures."

Well," said Rivers, " don't let us lose
any more time. Come, Mr. Beaumont, Lord
Evered and I have already been quarrelling
over the merits of this Desdemona and Othello.
Let us hear what you say about it ? "

No more than six or seven oil paintings were
displayed to view, and these were arranged

upon dark crimson screens ; the effect being
heightened by the additional advantages that
good light and space could give. Francis
Rivers led his companions to the largest and
most important work in the room ; and an animated
discussion commenced between the three
connoisseurs, to which Kate listened for sometime
with great interest, though far from being
able to enter thoroughly into their more subtle
criticisms. After a while, a picture on the
furthest screen attracted her attention, and she
moved away to examine it more closely.
The subject belonged to the epoch of the
French Revolution, and portrayed a tumbril
conveying prisoners to the guillotine. The
scene was vividly depicted ; by the red-capped
populace who lined the street, and feasted its
cruel eyes on the people who were about to
die ; then the condemned  some with the calm
of resignation, others with the apathy of despair,
while one alone wasted his ebbing moments
in impotent cries and frantic struggles. But all
these were subsidiary to the two principal figures,
that occupied the back of the tumbril, a man,
and a young, almost childlike girl. The man's
hair was tumbled over his face, and partly

shaded his eyes, already half hidden by their
drooping lids, as he stood looking down upon
the girl. His mouth alone was fully visible,
and a smile of ineffable sweetness and contentment
rested upon the parted lips. The girl
held his hand clasped in both of hers ; and her
whole attitude, including the profile of her upturned
face, gave a most realistic idea of trust
and reliance in one stronger than her fragile
self.

Kate was looking at the picture, wondering
what the meaning of it might be, and wishing
that she had the clue, when Lord Evered came
to her side.

'* Does this please you ? " he asked.

'' Oh yes," she replied ; " but there must be
some story attached to these two figures, which
I want to know."

Have you not read the ' Tale of Two
Cities ' . " inquired Lord Evered ; and when she
shook her head, he told, in few and well-chosen
words, the touching history of the man who
changed places with the husband of the woman
whom he loved ; and how the little dressmaker
had discovered the change, and then begged
that she might hold his hand to the very last,

because she was a poor, weak little thing, and
it would give her courage if she could cling to
one who had done so noble a deed.

How beautiful ! " said Kate, softly, when
the narrator paused; '' and I think the artist has
done full justice to the tale."

I think he has," replied Lord Evered ; and
then, speaking more to himself than to his
companion, he added, "It is a grand subject
a wasted life retrieved by one stupendous
act of self-sacrifice. We must all admire, but
which of us could do the like ? "

*' Oh ! " exclaimed Kate impulsively, " I am
sure I know one man who is capable of such
a deed."

'' Do you ? " said her companion, kindly, ashe
gazed at her enthusiastic face. Then, with
a wish to penetrate her mind, he inquired, " On
what traits of character do you ground such a
belief? as I can hardly suppose you have seen
any great deed of heroism in quiet country
Belton."

Kate was quite at home with Lord Evered,
but she paused a moment to collect her thoughts
before replying, " Certainly I have seen him
perform no great deed of heroism, but I know

that he has daily given up his wishes to another
in little things, and done it all as if it were the
simplest and most natural action in the world.
And don't you think," she added, with a flush
of eagerness, "that a life like that is just the
very preparation needed for some heroic act ?
If one did not think so, who would not rather
have the chance of one great self-sacrifice, even
if it entailed a martyrdom ? "

*' Perhaps you are right," said Lord Evered,
musingly. '' The little pricks of life demand
all our powers of endurance, if we do not wish
their sting to leave its venom in our nature.
But, child, you little know what you are talking
about, when it touches the question of a man
so drowning all jealous and less lofty sentiments
in his love as to be able to die in the place of
the one who is her husband  the one above all
others whom natural instincts would teach him
to hate. You can know nothing of such feelings,
but," he added, almost beneath his breath,
"others may."

Kate turned once more to the picture.

"How very grieved the woman he loved
must have been ! "

Yes, but she could glory too. For though

unable to return his love, she was none the less
his good angel, and it was the purifying love
that he felt for her which raised him from a degrading
life to do a deed that placed a martyr's
crown upon his brow."

Lord Evered had hardly finished speaking
when they were interrupted by the others ; and
the artistic criticism of the picture which
followed rather jarred upon Kate after dwelling
for so long on the deeper beauties of the
subject.

But all were sorry when the waning light
compelled them to leave. Lord Evered and
Rivers watched the brougham drive away with
Mr. Beaumont and his niece ; and Lord Evered
stood gazing after it as in a dream, until aroused
by his companion.

Which way are you going ? " said Rivers ;
"will you come with me?" and on the other
assenting he added, '' Beaumont's a lucky
fellow to have a niece like that girl  she's what
our Italian friends call simpaticar

Yes," replied Lord Evered ; " and would
that / had such a daughter ! "

His tone was one of deep feeling. The
artist looked at him keenly ; then slightly

raising his eyebrows he began to talk of other
matters.

Meanwhile, Kate was building castles in the
air about the friendship she hoped to form with
Julia and Mabel Ferrars. Mr. Beaumont had
an engagement which took him out after dinner ;
but that evening Kate felt far from lonely,
sitting over the drawing-room fire. Gazing
into the cheerful blaze, her thoughts roamed
far and wide. During her previous life she
had not been thrown much with other girls ;
nor had any wish for them been felt so long asher
father lived. This gave all the excitement
of novelty to the present opportunity, and
Kate's naturally warm-hearted disposition
inclined her to be sociable, and eager to make
friends. Already she had conceived a great
admiration for Julia, and was prepared to regard
her with that kind of reverential love which
young girls often feel for a companion somewhat
older and cleverer than themselves. She was
pleased to have met Sydney again, but her
thoughts were far more occupied by his sisters.

After a while came the memory of the
picture that she had admired so much, and this
recalled Roger North, for he it was whom she

conceived capable of a like heroic act. Then
she fell to wondering if it were really true that
her old friend was to marry his cousin.

I hope she is worthy of him," mused Kate.
''I do not knov/ why, but somehow she does
not seem to me the sort of wife likely to make
Roger happy. I am sure she would want to
take him where he did not care to go ; and
would feel but little interest in the pursuits that
interest him. All his life he would have to
continue giving up, just as he always has done
to his mother. I wish that I knew for certain.
I declare I will ask him when he comes here.
Though he is so much older than I am, we
have been just like brother and sister for such a
long time that I ami sure he will not mind my
asking, and will tell me all about it."

Thus the girl's thoughts roamed from one
subject to another, now to the new life, then
back to the old ; and again still further into the
mists of the past. She began to wonder how
her mother had spent like hours in the same
room, and what had been her day dreams,
and whether Lord Evered had once been a
kind elder brother to her mother like Roger
had been to her.

And so the solitary evening hours were
dreamed away, until she went upstairs, to find
Mrs. Vale waiting to attend upon her ; for the
old nurse would not give up her post as maid to
her child, and managed to combine this duty
with that of superintending Mr. Beaumont's
household.

The intimacy with the Ferrars was destined
to ripen very quickly. Even the next day, a
Sunday, was not to pass without events which
tended In this direction.

When Mr. Beaumont did not feel inclined to
go some distance to hear one of the noted
preachers of the day, he was in the habit of
attending a church not far from Portland Place,
which as celebrated for Its high ritual and the
beauty of its music. On this Sunday it was to
the latter that he walked with his niece.

On rejoining her uncle at the conclusion of
the service, Kate found him with Sydney
Ferrars. She was pleased and surprised at the
meeting ; but her surprise was not shared by
Sydney, for he had contrived to discover from
Mr. Beaumont what church they were likely to
attend that morning.

Their way homewards lay in the same direction

; and, on reaching his own door, Mr.
Beaumont invited Sydney to luncheon, an
invitation which he readily accepted.

Mr. Beaumont liked the society of attractive
young people, and had already taken a fancy
to Sydney, who, for his part, spared no pains
to please. They had many tastes in common,
and Mr. Beaumont was always glad of an
appreciative companion to whom he could
display some of his many treasures in. art and
literature.

Thus, during luncheon, the talk flowed
pleasantly, and then Mr. Beaumont carried off
the guest to the studio.

Sydney cast a regretful look at Kate as he
left the room ; but he soon met with a reward
for the momentary surrender of his own inclinations.
For, later on in the afternoon. Lord
Evered joined them, and the conversation
turned from painting to music. Oratorios were
discussed, and finally it was arranged that
Sydney should go home for his music and
return to dine and spend the evening.

The dinner hour was near at hand when he
was shown into the drawing-room, and found
Kate there alone.

*' Ah ! " she said, greeting him with a bright
smile, '' my uncle says that he has something
for me to do this evening  I am to play your
accompaniments."

'' There is no one whom I should prefer todo
so. You played charmingly for me at
Belton, when you had gained a little confidence
in your own power."

'' You will find me improved, I hope," said
she, with a pretty air of self-confidence. '' I
have practised reading music a great deal
lately. Still, before you gentlemen leave the
dining-room I should like to play over the
pieces you want to sing."

'' By all means  I will show you which they
are. But first let me give you this note, entrusted
to me by my sister. Pray read it at
once, for I am expected to take back an
answer."

Kate opened it, and found it to contain a
few lines from Julia Ferrars, asking her to
waive the ceremony of a formal call, and lunch
with them on the following day.

'' I should like to accept of all things," said
Kate, looking up at Sydney, who had watched
her as she read. " I am sure my uncle will

make no objection. He is most anxious that I
should be friends with Miss Ferrars," added
the girl, Ingenuously.

It Is Impossible that he can wish It more
than we do."

I will write an answer after dinner," said
Kate ; " but now please show me the music."

The portfolio and books had been placed on
the piano, and they went to look them over.

Sydney had pointed out one or two solos
that Mr. Beaumont wished to hear, when he
said in a low tone, 

'* This is the first chance I have had of
mentioning how much I felt having to leave
you at Belton In your great sorrow, without a
word or sign of sympathy. I am sure no one
could have experienced more concern for you
than I did, with less opportunity for showing
it. But believe me when 1 tell you how hard
it was to leave like that."

His voice had the thrilling, tender pathos
which he knew so well how to throw into Its
tones. It went straight to Kate's heart, and
the soft, grey eyes which turned to his were
moist with tears. She gave him her hand
with all the frank Impulse of her nature.

"Thank you," she said simply ; *T do believe
it."

Then they resumed their selection of the
music, until Mr. Beaumont entered, accompanied
by Lord Evered, and In a few minutes
dinner was announced.

Kate was eager to do justice to Sydney's
singing, and left the dining-room as soon as
possible. The music reached Sydney's ears,
and made him wish that he were sufficiently
intimate to follow her at once. But his patience
was not long tried, as neither Mr. Beaumont
nor Lord Evered cared to sit long over their
wine, and soon he was singing to Kate's
accompaniment.

No more favourable opportunity was possible
for promoting an intimacy between them.
Before the evening was over they had returned
to the same point of easy companionship which
they had reached at Belton.

Like all who heard Sydney's voice, Lord
Evered and Mr. Beaumont were delighted,
and for most of the evening he and Kate remained
at the piano.

When the time came to leave, Mr. Beaumont
shook the young man warmly by the hand,

VOL. I. 13

and courteously expressed a hope that they
might enjoy many other such musical evenings.

The night was fine, with just frost enough to
dry the streets. Sydney declined the servant's
offer to summon a hansom, preferring the walk
home under the starlit sky. He lighted a
cigar, and while enjoying its fragrance his
thoughts ran on the girl with whom he was
thrown into contact for a second time.

'' I believe that Dame Fortune means to
smile on me at last," he thought. '' Here
seems a way, and a pleasant one too, out of
my difficulties. If she had not a penny I
should be as much in love with her as I ever
was with any one ! And I don't think it will
be hard to make her love me. As luck will
have It, the old fellow seems to have taken a
fancy to me, and, once married, life will be easy
enough, even if her own fortune is not great.
It is evident that he has heaps of money, and
would never let his niece's husband want a
few paltry thousands. Yes, It must be. It's
not like marrying a girl for her money  she is
no great heiress. Then she thinks so much
of her sister that she will like to go to South
America for a time, that they may be together;

and it shall be for no long time either, if I can
help it''

And with these musings Sydney's spirits
rose at every step. His easy, sanguine nature
led him to put away all the difficulties and
entanglements of the present, and to build airy
castles for the future, where there was not to be
even a crumpled rose-leaf.

BARBARA FINDS A FRIEND.

Among all large families it is not unusual
for the brothers and sisters to form particular
friendships within the radius of their own circle.
This was the case with Julia and Sydney Ferrars.

They came next to each other in age, the
brother being by two years the senior.

But though older he was by no means the
leading spirit, since Julia possessed the strength
of will and concentration of purpose which
he so much needed. Perhaps it was this very
fact which made her attachment to him the one
deep emotion of her life. Many natures such
as hers most love those who lean on their
support, and the very sacrifices they make to
the weaker, but possibly more exacting will,
appear only to increase their affection.

When they were children, Julia had often

screened Sydney from the consequences of
trivial shortcomings at the expense of punishments
which fell on her own head, and had
denied herself many little pleasures and indulgences
for his sake. Later, in school days,
the larger share of her pocket-money would goto
augment his, which never seemed sufficient
to supply his wants ; and when the time came
that his ever-increasing need of money was
quite beyond her power to gratify, she never
wearied of her post as confidante and adviser.

But with all this devotion, Julia was by no
means blind to her brother's faults, especially
to his want of application and to the absence of
of any resolve to make a mark in the world.
Ambitious herself, she would fain have instilled
into him some of her own spirit ; but all her
efforts in this direction proved futile ; and at
last she had to remain content with watching
over and furthering his interests to the best of
her ability.

Julia was endued with practical commonsense
to a remarkable degree ; and was
able to discern between the possible and the
impossible, which prevented her from wasting
her energies in the pursuit of. unattainable

chimeras. Hence, when the idea occurred of
Kate Galbraith as a possible wife for her
brother, she brought a calm and clear judgment
to bear upon the matter.

Sometimes, when a sister regards a brother
with great affection, the prospect of his marriage
is most unwelcome ; but Julia was swayed by
no motives of jealousy, and the confidence
that she possessed in her own strength of
character made her feel sure that no one could
usurp the particular claim she held on Sydney's
affection. Even had this not been the case,
the moral atmosphere in which she had lived
must have taught her to crush any feelings
of mere sentiment for the sake of worldly
advantages.

Her first step was to learn the extent of
Kate's fortune, and chance aided her in this.

Only a few days after the scheme first crossed
her mind, Mr. Ferrars received a letter from
his widowed sister, Mrs. Ramsay. In this the
lady expressed her pleasure at having heard
from her son George that his wife inherited
an income of five hundred a year from Mr.
Galbraith, who had divided his fortune equally
between his two daughters.

Mrs. Ramsay went on to say that her son
had mentioned that Kate was left in the better
circumstances, since she had, in addition, her
mother's fortune of ten thousand pounds.

This set the matter at rest on most reliable
authority. Though, considering Sydney's
natural extravagance, his sister could have
wished that Kate's fortune were larger, she
quickly decided that it was not a chance to be
thrown away, especially as there might also be
expectations from Mr. Beaumont.

Sydney's need of money was urgent. There
was no time to lose, and Julia, having once
made up her mind, devoted every power to
bring her scheme to a satisfactory conclusion
Her self-reliant nature required no counsellor
She judged It best not to take Mrs. Ferrars into
her confidence, because she considered her to
be wanting in tact, and likely to defeat the
object in view by a too open attempt to
bring Sydney and Kate together. Julia did not
breathe a word on the subject to her brother.
They knew each other well enough for a tacit
understanding to spring up between them ;
and the sister felt assured that there was no
better way of driving Sydney from a reasonable

course than to recommend It to his
notice.

One day he asked, In a careless manner, if
she had ever heard what was the amount of
Miss Galbralth's fortune, and she gave the
information without further comment.

So matters stood when the brother and sister
went to call on Mr. Beaumont in Portland
Place. Julia's keen powers of observation
enabled her to make. In their short Interview,
a good estimate of Kate's character; and she
came away satisfied that the marriage was one
which would be for Sydney's benefit. Perhaps,
too, she acknowledged, almost unconsciously,
that this girl might possess an influence which
would do more to raise him to a higher level
than any of the levers of ambition and expediency
that she herself had used in vain.
But whether she were about to sacrifice
Kate's young life she did not care or pause to
think. Among the Ferrars family, if personal
selfishness were condemned in the abstract, it
was, when applied to promote family interests,
looked upon rather as a virtue than otherwise.

At the hour when Kate was expected to
lunch, Mrs. Ferrars and her two daughters

were sitting in the drawing-room, Julia was
employed with a piece of art needlework ;
Mabel was cutting the pages of the last new
novel ; while Mrs. Ferrars sat by the fire with
a work-basket at her side.

It was from their father that Julia and
Sydney inherited their good looks. Mabel
more resembled her mother, and her chief
beauty lay in the brilliant colouring, which, in
the case of Mrs. Ferrars, time had somewhat
faded. However, Mrs. Ferrars still passed fora
good-looking woman, and she well knew how
to make the most of any personal advantages
that remained. Her countenance exhibited a
certain shrewdness, but a want of depth ; for
her forehead though high was narrow ; and her
light blue eyes were glassy and expressionless.
This want of expression was rendered the
more apparent since she constantly used them
to give point to her conversation, and also had
a habit of raising them, until little more than
the whites remained visible.

Mrs. Ferrars loved display, and her dress,
though black, was rich In texture and elaborate
in Its trimmings. Many rings sparkled on
her fingers, and altogether she wore fully as

P

much jewellery as was compatible with good
taste.

While industriously knitting a crimson-silk
sock for one of her boys  as she loved to call
them  her thoughts also ran upon a matrimonial
scheme, which prevented her from detecting
that of Julia, while at the same time the two
worked in together. In her case, Julia and Mr.
Beaumont were the principal figures, and thus
she had readily consented to any plans which
might conduce to an intimacy with Miss Galbraith.
She thought that such an intimacy
would serve as an excellent excuse for throwing
Julia in Mr. Beaumont's path.

Presently Mabel laid down her book and
went to the window.

I think I heard a carriage stop at the
door," she remarked. '' Ah ! I was right ; it is
Miss Galbraith. What a tall, elegant-looking
girl she is ! "

*' I told you so," returned Julia, quietly, 'but
for all that she is simplicity itself; so pray
don't frighten her by talking too much nonsense."


"As if a little mite like I am could frighten
anybody ! " said Mabel, laughing.

A few moments more, and Mrs. Ferrars was
shaking hands with Kate.

How kind of you to come like this ! I am
charmed to see you, my dear. Your delightful
uncle told me so much about you the other
night that I am most anxious that you should
make friends with my girls. Julia you know
already ; this Is Mabel  our spoilt child, we
call her."

Kate felt a lltde overwhelmed by Mrs.
Ferrars' volubility, and was glad to be relieved
from the necessity of responding by exchanging
greetings with the girls.

But the lady had not done with her so
quickly.

I feel doubly Interested In you," she continued,
*' because, years ago, I used to know
your sweet mother. Ah ! what a charming
creature she was, and you remind me of her so
much that you take me back to younger
days ! ' '

And Mrs. Ferrars paused, to press a delicate
morsel of cambric to her eyes.

Kate looked somewhat astonished.

**Do you find a likeness ? I am not generally
considered to resemble her."

"No! are you not?" said Mrs. Ferrars.
Perhaps I am making a confusion between
the two sisters. You are the child of Clara
Beaumont, are you not ? "

My mother's name was Alice," replied
Kate, a little shyly.

Indeed ! ah, yes, I remember  she was the
younger sister," said Mrs. Ferrars, not in the
least put out by her mistake. " Then it is your
aunt Clara, who married one of the Summers
of Atherton, of whom you remind me."

Kate had never heard that she was like
her aunt Clara, but as the latter had died
many years before it might be possible,
although unknown to her. Her real likeness
she knew was to her father ; but his memory
was too fresh and sacred for her to allude to
him before strangers.

At luncheon Sydney joined them, with two
other young men, and he contrived that Kate
should sit by him. Kate noticed two vacant
places, and at the same moment Mrs. Ferrars
asked, in an annoyed tone 

'' Where are Mademoiselle and Miss
Barbara ? "

Then, before the servant had time to reply,

a small sallow girl and a little French woman
made their appearance, and took the unoccupied
chairs.

*' I did not know you had another sister,"
remarked Kate to Sydney.

No ! did you not ? Certainly poor Barbara
is not of much account ; she has always something
the matter with her. Julia has just
persuaded the mother to have a governess to
take charge of her ; and a good plan too, for
she used to prowl about the house and get in
other people's way."

Kate turned a compassionate glance towards
the girl, and when she noticed her sullen and
unhappy expression she felt a yet deeper
pity.

I wonder if she will let me make friends
with her," she thought ; " at least I will try."

But she had little time to think of Barbara
while luncheon lasted, for Sydney monopolized
all her attention.

When the meal was over, the girls led Kate
to the smaller drawing-room to look over paintings
and music, and to prosecute their friendship
by learning more of each other's tastes.

But callers came, and Mrs. Ferrars summoned

Mabel to entertain a girl of her own age. The
call lasted some time, and then the carriage was
announced for Kate.

She rose to take leave, and Julia was about
to accompany her when Mabel interposed.

" No, no, Julia, it is my turn now. You have
had by far the larger share of her company."

'every well," said Julia, pleasant. "At all
events we will not make Miss Galbraith uncomfortable
by quarrelling about her."

The two girls left the room together, and
when the door had closed behind them, Mabel
slipped her arm within Kate's and said, '' If you
do not mind some more stairs, I want to show
you our own domains  we are rather proud of
them."

Of course Kate consented, and Mabel did
the honours of two pretty rooms, appropriated
to herself and Julia.

Then she laid her hand upon another door,
and paused to say, " Will you come and pay
poor Barbara a visit . you have hardly seen
her."

*' Oh, yes," said Kate, gladly; for she had
been wishing to have an opportunity of seeing
Barbara again.

Mabel opened the door, and they entered the
schoolroom.

Barbara was alone, lying at full length on
a couch of peculiar construction. She looked
towards them with knitted brows.

'' Here, Bars," said her sister, *' I have
brought a visitor to see you."

As a rule Barbara was more amiable to
Mabel than to any one else in the house. It
was not in Mabel's nature to be other than kind
and caressing ; and Barbara repaid her by an
occasional show of affection and a good deal
of domineering ; but to-day she turned sulkily
away.

*' I thought you would like to see our new
friend," said Mabel, in coaxing tones. "Come,
Barbara, don't be barbarous."

This was a threadbare family witticism which
never failed to irritate, and Mabel had let it fall
thoughtlessly, and then did not know how to
remedy the effect her words had produced.

But Kate was standing beside the couch, and
moved by a sudden impulse she bent down,
and pressed her lips upon the forehead of the
wayward child.

There was something in the kiss, so true in

its love and sympathy, that touched Barbara's
heart, and she turned her softening eyes on
Kate.

'' I thought you were only another of Mabel's
fine young ladies," she said, in some sort of
apology for her previous rudeness. "But I see
you are different. They care for nothing but
dress, and balls, and partners, and come to
look at me as they would at an armless lady ora
skeleton man  only they don't find me half
so amusing."

'' How can you say such things, Barbara ? "
exclaimed Mabel.

But the girl did not heed. She was intently
studying Kate's face. Presently she
continued, 

'' When I see anyone like you, I wish I were
the same. I should not care to be Mabel  she
is too flighty ; nor Julia  she is clever enough,
but so horribly matter-of-fact. But if I were
like you, I believe there would be something in
life worth living for."

The bitterness of her tone gave Kate a pang,
and she said gently, 

'' Surely we have all something worth living
for."

'' What can I have ? " exclaimed Barbara,
vehemently.

I know a girl in our village," replied
Kate, 'who is even more helpless than you
are, for she cannot move at all ; and yet she
would.be more missed in her own home and
among her neighbours than any person I
know."

Tell me about her," said Barbara, eagerly.
I hate to hear of balls, and parties, and such
things ; but I should like to hear of somebody
who suffers more than I do."

Kate looked at Mabel.

I am afraid I must not stay any longer today,
I have kept the carriage waiting already ;
but if I may come and see Barbara again I
should like to do so very much."

Barbara drew Kate's face down to hers and
kissed it.

Yes, come again soon. I like you."

When the two girls were once more on the
staircase, Mabel said, " I never saw poor Bars
take such a sudden fancy to anyone before.
But I don't wonder, for I can see that you area
darling. Do you know," she added, clinging
to Kate's arm, " I thought that as you were

VOL, I. 14

that grand Mr. Beaumont's niece I should be
frightened of you, and not like you ; but you
are not a bit what I expected, and we must be
great friends  so please do not let us be formal
any more ; and you must call me Mabel, and
let me call you Kate."

*' Most willingly," responded Kate.

And then, to ratify the agreement, Mabel
stood on tiptoe and gave her new friend a
warm embrace.

Kate was not one to forget a promise, and
on her next visit asked Mabel to take her upstairs
to Barbara.

It happened that Barbara was more unwell
than usual, and in bed. And there they found
her, with the little French governess sitting
at her needlework over the fire.

*' Oh ! you have come at last," exclaimed
Barbara, raising herself painfully on the pillows
to greet Kate.

Then she turned to Mabel.

"You can go away," she said. Imperiously.
'' I want her all to myself; and. Mademoiselle,
you can go also."

Mabel laughed good-naturedly, and looked at
her watch.

'* Very well ; I will leave you for a quarter of
an hour."

'* No, no," said Barbara ; '' half-an-hour."

Very well, half-an-hour, but not a moment
longer."

And Mabel left the room, followed by
Mademoiselle, who lifted up her eyes and
hands, and bewailed in broken sentences her
pupil's want of good manners.

When the door closed Barbara fixed her
dark eyes eagerly on Kate's face.

*' Now tell me all about her," she said.

So Kate began, and told the history of the
village girl who bore her sufferings so patiently
that they became a blessing, not to
herself alone, but to all who watched around
her.

Barbara listened attentively, and asked many
questions. At last she said, 

'' What made her so contented and happy
when she suffered so much ? "

*' I think it was her strong faith," said Kate.
This made her sure that all her pain was sent
in love."

"And do you believe that?" asked Barbara.


I hope I do  1 try to," answered Kate, asher
thoughts flew away to her recent loss, and
the trial of leaving her old home.

'' Tell me about your old home," demanded
Barbara, "and what you used to do there."

Kate willingly complied ; and, almost to her
own surprise, found words in which to speak of
her father, and all they had been to each other ;
while the younger girl listened with greedy ears
to that which was to her the revelation of new
possibilities in life  a glimpse of aims and
objects that might not be beyond the reach of
one like herself. The half-hour passed all too
soon. But though the first it was by no
means the last of these conversations ; and at
length Barbara became as familiar with the
names and ways of Kate's old friends at Belton
as Kate herself. With the exception of the
crippled girl there was no one in whom she
showed more interest than Roger North, and
one day she gravely remarked, 

"If ever I were to marry, he is the sort of
man that I would choose."

And thus a friendship grew between the two,
so different in their dispositions, and in the
surroundings among which they had grown up.

Barbara was keen enough to notice these
differences, and thought much over them while
making no remark. But Kate was Httle disposed
to judge others critically ; and as she
came to know the family better, if there were
things at which she secretly marvelled she was
ready to consider all that was at variance with
her preconceived ideas as consequent upon the
exigencies of a London life.

With Julia and Mabel so ready to make
advances, and Kate equally glad to respond,
they speedily became very intimate. Mr. Beaumont
was glad it should be so, as it took almost
all trouble of providing for his niece's amusement
from off his hands, and in a short time
few days passed without a meeting at one of
the two houses. Kate accompanied her friends
to attend singing lessons, lectures, and classes
for German and Italian ; and with one thing or
another she found her time to be fully occupied.
Mr. Beaumont purchased a horse, and she often
rode with Sydney Ferrars and one of his sisters.
Sometimes Mr. Beaumont was of the party,
and Sydney took advantage of such opportunities
to get Kate to himself, and to excite
her sympathies in his affairs by telling enough

to Interest, but not enough to make it clear how
much he was Involved.

Other lady friends of Mr. Beaumont came to
call, and were disposed to be kind and friendly
to the motherless girl ; but with none of them
did she become so intimate as with the Perrars.
And so time went on. November fogs were
succeeded by the brighter skies and frosts of
December ; Christmas came and went ; the
new year set in with an unusual amount of
snow and severe weather, and still Roger North
came not. Everything combined to favour
Sydney Ferrars in his wooing.

THE FATES SPIN THEIR THREAD.

One bright wintry morning, two ladies were
sitting quietly by a cheerful fire. One was
Mrs. Ferrars ; the other her great friend, the
Lady Avery.

Lady Avery was the widow of the fourth
baron of that name, who had died many years
before, leaving her not very well off. It was
only by the greatest economy that she contrived
to live in a style suitable to the rank to which
she belonged. She could not live in London,
but owned a pretty villa at Eastbourne, which
was her resting-place when not visiting among
a large circle of acquaintances.

It was at Eastbourne that Mrs. Ferrars had
first met her, when after a severe illness she
had been residing there for a few months, and
had after infinite trouble succeeded in establishing

herself on the visiting Hst of Lady Avery 
one of the great personages of that fashionable
watering-place. Lady Avery discovered that
Mrs. Ferrars was the mistress of an exceedingly
comfortable house in London, and where she
would always be a welcome visitor. So she
responded graciously to the advances made to
her ; and it had come to be an established
custom that when she desired to spend a few
days in town she had only to write and let
Mrs. Ferrars know.

On this occasion, she had come to do some
shopping before proceeding to Cannes, where
she was about to stay with a relation who
owned a charming villa.

Lady Avery was one of those persons who
are walking dictionaries of other people's sayings
and doings ; hence she and Mrs. Ferrars
found ample food for conversation as they sat
cosily over the fire.

Presently the door opened and Kate Galbraith
entered, looking as bright and sunny as
the day without. She was dressed to brave
the cold. Soft black fur nestled round her
white throat and bordered the hat which rested
on her fair head. And well it suited her,

contrasting as It did with cheeks freshly coloured
by the frosty atmosphere.

She exchanged greetings with the ladles,
and then asked, 

"Are Julia and Mabel ready, Mrs. Ferrars ?
I have come In the carriage to take them to the
station."

'' They have only just gone to dress, my
dear," replied Mrs. Ferrars; 'but you are
early, there Is plenty of time."

So I find ; and If you will excuse me I
will run upstairs to Barbara."

No, I had rather you did not  she will
keep you too long. I will go myself and hurry
the girls."

Pray let me go, Mrs. Ferrars."
But Mrs. Ferrars had risen already and
chose to go, and Kate sat down rather disappointedly.


The young people were going to skate with
some friends whose house was situated an hour
by rail from town. The three brothers were to
accompany them, and therefore Mrs. Ferrars
did not think that her presence was at all
necessary.

Kate was wondering how to commence a

conversation, but while she hesitated Lady
Avery began.

The latter was past middle-age, very stout,
and wore spectacles. She held in her hands
some knitting on large wooden pins. The
work was for a bazaar, a form of charity of
which her ladyship was an indefatigable
patroness.

She laid down the knitting and took off her
spectacles, and had Kate known her better
she would have accepted those symptoms asa
sign that her companion was about to speak.
But she was ignorant of Lady Avery's mannerisms,
and was quite taken by surprise when
her ladyship abruptly said, 

*' I understand from Mrs. Ferrars that you
used to live at Belton, and know my old friend
Sophia North. The last time that I met her was
in the autumn at Sir John Erskine's. She was
ill after I left ; but when I saw her she was as
straight as a dart, and as enduring as a Spartan.
I hear she is at Cannes for the benefit of her
health, and I hope to see her there next week."

"Do you?" said Kate, relieved by this
opening for conversation. *' I heard the other
day that she took a fresh cold, and was very ill

again after reaching Cannes ; but she is better
now."

'' I am glad to hear it. Roger is with her,
I suppose ? I never saw a more devoted son in
my Hfe. She will greatly miss his unflagging
attention when he is married."

Here Lady Avery resumed her spectacles,
took up the needles, and knitted a few stitches.

Kate would have liked to ask what Lady
Avery knew about the likelihood of Roger
marrying ; but her curiosity was destined to be
short-lived, for presently spectacles and knitting
went down again, and Lady Avery continued,


"It was all settled when I was at Castle
Annick. Being an old friend, Mrs. North told
me all about it. Perhaps Sir John might have
some idea of a better parti for his daughter,
and that may be the reason why he is putting
the young man on a little probation before the
engagement is finally announced. But in any
case, I have it from Mrs. North herself that
the marriage will not be further delayed than
the end of next season."

Once more the spectacles were resumed and
the knitting recommenced. Kate's mind was

divided between a vague wonderment as to
how much work Lady Avery accomplished,
notwithstanding these constant interruptions,
and a blank sensation of something, she knew
not what, having passed out of her life with
this fresh confirmation of Roger's engagement.

Once more knitting and spectacles were laid
down.

Have you any message that I can take to
Mrs. North ? " asked Lady Avery.

N  no, thank you, except my love, and I
am glad that she is better'*

Kate felt thankful to be released from the
weird fascination of Lady Avery's spectacles
and knitting needles by the entrance of Julia
and Mabel, who quickly carried her away with
them on their expedition. But all day, in spite
of the fresh country air and the exhilarating
exercise, her spirits were not so buoyant as they
had been when starting from home.

A fortnight later Kate found a foreign letter
waiting for her on the breakfast table. She
took it up, and to her surprise It bore the
Cannes postmark, and the handwriting she
recognized as that of Mrs. North. It was
very seldom that Mrs. North corresponded

with her, and it was with a strong feeling of
curiosity that she opened the envelope. The
letter ran as follows :  

' Villa Borrowed, Cannes,
 J miliary 26th.

My dear Kate,  I have received a call
to-day from my old friend Lady Avery. She
tells me that she met you quite recently in
London, and this reminds me that possibly you
would be kind enough to execute for me a
little commission. I want a pound of wool like
the pattern enclosed. Will you match it, and
send it by post with a note of the cost } I am
glad to say that my stay here seems to be
really doing me good, though the doctors forbid
my return any earlier than May. At the best
I fear I shall never be so strong as formerly,
and shall not be sorry to give up my many
duties at Belton to Roger's wife. We have
found a large circle of friends at Cannes, and
I think that Roger enjoys the change from
Belton, though naturally there are many
reasons which make him anxious to return to
England. Writing is a fatigue to me, so you
must excuse more.

'' With our kind remembrances to your uncle
and yourself. Believe me

'' Yours faithfully,

'' Sophia North."

Kate folded the letter carefully, and replaced
it in its envelope with a faint sigh of regret ;
but from that time she looked upon Roger's
engagement as a fact which no longer admitted
of a doubt.

All this while she had not forgotten her
plans for visiting among the poor, and had
talked them over many a time with Mrs. Vale ;
but that good woman always ended the conversation
by shaking her head doubtfully, and
saying that nothing could be done without
Mr. Beaumont's sanction.

At last Kate summoned courage to speak to
her uncle. He allowed her to go on talking
for some time, and gradually she forgot her
shyness, and unfolded her schemes almost as
she would have done to her father.

'' And I may go, uncle ? you will allow me ? "
she concluded, eagerly ; quite believing that
his courteous attention and interested manner
implied consent.

A slight smile played round Mr. Beaumont's
mouth.

'' My dear niece, it is delightful for a timeworn
man of the world to listen to your youthful
plans. But I must venture to believe that you
and our good Mrs. Vale, with all your excellent
intentions, would fall an easy prey to the astuteness
of the London poor. You would probably
bestow your alms, more frequently
than not, in those very quarters where they
ought to be withheld. Seriously, I am sorry
to disappoint you, but this is an altogether
different matter to visiting among the poor
in your father's parish. You are far too young
for me to give my consent to anything
of the kind. Your desire to do good is natural,
but I confess I am surprised that a woman of
Mrs. Vale's age and experience should have
encouraged you to look for my approval."

'' I do not know that she did, uncle," said
Kate, truthfully. '' She has always seemed very
doubtful. But won't you let her o ? There is
a family we know of now that wants help so
badly. Please let her go and take some things
from me, even if I may not go myself."

'' Well, my dear, well," replied Mr. Beaumont,

seeing how truly disappointed Kate was by his
refusal, *' If you wish It so much, and she only
goes occasionally, and takes care not to bring
any Infectious fever into the house, she may do
so. For the rest, I suppose that she Is old
enough to look out for herself."

With this Kate had to be content, and for
the present did not venture upon the subject of
a class In the Sunday-school.

In yet another matter Kate was disappointed,
and one day she opened her heart to
Mamsie.

Mamsie," she said, '' I wish uncle would let
me go In and out of his studio and library
when he is at work, just as I used to go in and
out of father's study at home. It seems so
strange and formal never to see him except
at meals, or when he comes to me In the
drawing-room. I sometimes almost think that
I am in his way, and that he would rather I
were not here."

"My dearie, never think that!" exclaimed
the old nurse. " I'll be bound he would be glad
enough to see you about him If you were to go ;
but maybe he thinks you don't care. I would
try ; and take your book or work."

A few days later Kate, armed with her
work-basket, knocked at the door of the
studio.

Mr. Beaumont opened it, wearing a loose
black velveteen coat, and palette and brushes
were in his hand. On seeing Kate he appeared
astonished.

What do you want, my dear ? " he enquired,
politely, but without appearing to expect that
she desired to enter the room.

A bright colour suffused Kate's face, but
she had made up her mind to be brave.

'' I used often to sit with father," she said,
*when he was at work ; and  and I thought
if you would allow me that I should like so
much to come and sit with you. I will be as
quiet as a mouse, dear uncle. Really'' she
added, seeing that he looked disconcerted.
'' And then, if you want anything I shall be
ready in a moment to do it for you."

'' You are very kind, my dear," he said, '' and
I am exceedingly obliged to you, but there is
no occasion for you to trouble yourself, I have
a bell close at hand, and Benson answers it
in a moment. But come in by all means, if
you wish."

VOL. I. 15

Mr. Beaumont drew forth a comfortable
chair for her convenience. Then he began
talking, and showed her various things in the
room. But he did not return to his easel,
and Kate felt unhappy, and sure that she was 
in his way. At last she took courage to say
so ; and though he politely assured her to
the contrary, she left a little sadly.

Such was her first and last uninvited visit to
her uncle's studio.

But her dream of filling a daughter's place
in Mr. Beaumont's affections was destined to
receive a yet ruder shock.

One Sunday evening, early in February,
they were alone together. It was an event
of somewhat rare occurrence, for Mr. Beaumont
very frequently dined out, or if he
was at home for dinner he often went out
later. And, almost always, when he remained
by his own fireside for the whole evening
one or more friends dropped in.

But the day had been wild and tempestuous.
Most people had stayed in-doors ; and even
now the rain beat and the wind blew in a way
that made the warm fireside in Portland Place
pleasant by contrast with the cold without.

When Mr. Beaumont came from the diningroom,
he settled himself in his favourite chair,
with his little table and silver reading lamp
at his elbow. Presently he addressed his
niece.

' I have been talking over some arrangements
for your benefit, Kate, with a friend of mine."

"Yes, uncle?" said she, laying down her
book.

'' I have been thinking that before the season
commences you will want to be presented ; and
then will follow all sorts of balls and parties,
which are not much in my line."

*' Oh, uncle! indeed I do not want to be
any trouble to you," exclaimed Kate, earnestly.

I am aware of that, my dear ; so you will
be pleased to hear that my friend Mrs.
Seymour is quite willing to take all the trouble
from off my hands ; and I think it will  be an
exceedingly good arrangement for you to go to
her at Easter and remain for the gay months.
After that, we will see what is to be done.
She moves in the best society ; and you could
not make your debut under better auspices."

This announcement was so entirely unexpected
and unwelcome that dismay held

Kate speechless, while Mr. Beaumont continued,


'' I think that you have seen Mrs. Seymour
once or twice already, and cannot fail to find
her a most agreeable companion."

Kate had seen her, and she had by no means
taken her fancy, for she considered her to bea
gay and heartless widow ; but It was not
this thought which overwhelmed poor Kate so
much as the idea that her uncle should have
conceived a plan of separating her from himself.
The big tears gathered, and there was
a choking sob in her voice that she vainly
tried to control as she exclaimed 

" Oh, please, please, uncle, do not send me
away ! I am quite content as I am. I do not
want to go to any parties ; please let me stay
with you ! "

Mr. Beaumont was taken aback by her
vehemence. He honestly believed that by
making the arrangements which he had he
was consulting her pleasure as much as his
own convenience. He had fancied that any girl
of her age would be delighted at the prospect
of a whirl of gaiety, and did not in the least
understand his niece's character. So he looked

at her in amazement when he could no longer
doubt that she was thoroughly in earnest, and
felt somewhat amazed.

My dear child, this is absurd ! You do
not know what you are talking about. I am
sure that a little reflection wull show you that
nothing could be pleasant than the arrangement
which I have made."

Kate's tears flowed all the faster, and she
could only repeat, 

Please, please, do anything but send me
away ! "

Mr. Beaumont could not stand a woman's
tears, and he had all a man's horror of a scene,
so for the moment he could think of nothing
better than to say, 

Well, well, I never thought that you would
dislike my plan. Of course I do not want to
send you away, and will say no more if it makes
you unhappy. Forget all about it, my dear,
and let us have some music  I should like to
hear how you have improved under your new
master."

Kate dried her eyes and went to the piano.
She had to play something that she knew
by heart at first, for her tears were blinding.

But by-and-bye she controlled them, and played
and sang to her uncle for the rest of the
evening.

But before she fell asleep that night her
tears returned with redoubled force.

'' Uncle does not want me now ! " she cried.
*' Nobody wants me now  I am of no use to
anyone ! "

But, after a while, some softer feelings
soothed her. "How can I be so wicked?"
she thought. *' There Is Mantle, who loves
me, and Mrs. Stephens, and Barbara, and
many, many more ! " And then came a thought
of the handsome eyes which were now so often
seeking hers, and the musical voice whose
tones were always tender when speaking to her.
Yes !  and the thought came with a thrill of
pleasure that there, maybe, she was not only
wanted but loved. So she fell asleep, like a
wearied child, the traces of tears still upon
her face. But a smile parted her lips.

It was somewhat later in the month that
Sydney Ferrars was sitting in the billiard-room
of his father's house. He had lighted a cigar,
and was about to take up the morning paper,
when the door opened and Julia stepped in.

She wore a rather serious air ; and her Hps
were drawn together in a more resolute manner
than usual.

Sydney looked up.

'' Why, Julia, what is the matter ? You look
as if all the affairs of the kingdom were on your
shoulders."

Then he laughed, a careless laugh.

"Do I .' " replied Julia, as she sat down
on a chair facing her brother. Rut she did
not laugh. If there were any change in her
countenance it was that her brows contracted
with a slight frown.

'' What is the matter ? What have I been
doing now, my wise sister?" asked Sydney;
and he laughed again.

*' Sydney," said Julia, with a trace of irritation
in her tone, '' will you never take things
more seriously ? Well as I know you, it
astounds me to see how you can be so careless
and lighthearted after those letters which you
received last week ! Perhaps they are in your
pocket even now, and you have no satisfactory
answer ready to make to them."

Sydney knocked the ashes from the end of
his cigar.

Oh, that's what it is ! Well, the mail does
not go until next week, and there is no
manner of use in bothering oneself about it
beforehand."

How can you take things so coolly?" exclaimed
Julia. " Ever since I read those letters
I have felt most miserably anxious to devise
some way by which you can get the money."

Then I was a fool to show them to you,"
he returned, ungratefully. "Women always make
mountains out of molehills, especially when they
have to do with money matters."

Julia did not heed his ingratitude ; she leant
forward, and looked at him earnestly.

Why will you not try the only way that I
can see ? "

"What way?" asked Sydney, though he
knew well enough.

Julia had never yet openly spoken to him
about marrying Kate, but matters had come to
a crisis, and she did so now.

Marry Kate Galbraith."

Sydney laughed, a little uneasily this time.

My dear girl, a man is not in such a
desperate hurry to give up his independence."

I thought you had made up your mind

to that, at all events. You have puzzled me
beyond anything by delaying so long."

'' Has It never occurred to you, sage sister,
that the lady might say, ' No' ? "

"Is that your reason for delay ?" exclaimed
Julia, much relieved. '* Then I do not think
you need be afraid."

'' I am not so sure. She Is all sympathy and
friendliness, but If I venture on anything more
tender she Is off like a startled fawn. For all
her girllshness and gentleness, she has a dignity
which keeps a fellow at a distance."

'' At one time I was doubtful myself," said
Julia, reflectively. " But not now. I have
"watched her closely, and lately have seen a
change. If you are not In the room she
watches the door with a wistful look ; and
when you come there Is an unmistakable flush
of pleasure, and she never seems more gay and
happy than with you. I am sure she cares for
you."

You think so ?" said Sydney, and his face
softened as he went on. "The fact Is, Julia, I
really like the girl, and do not care to risk a
refusal. But 'Faint heart never won fair lady,'
so I suppose I must take the plunge."

Then he rose, stretched himself, and stood
with his back to the fire.

JuHa rose too ; came close to where he
stood, and placed her hand in his. She spoke
earnestly.

'' Sydney ! if it is to be, and she accepts
you, be kind to her. I have studied her
character, and can see that she is not made
of such stuff as we are. She would droop and
fade without an atmosphere of love. And for
you, believe me, you have only to plead your
cause, and she will not say you ' Nay.' "

When Julia and Sydney had left the room,
a little figure emerged from behind the heavy
curtains which were draped over the deep bay
window. It passed unnoticed through the door,
and stole quietly up the stairs.

ROGER MAKES UP HIS MIND.

Far away from the damp and fog of an English
winter, the blue waves of the Mediterranean
danced and rippled under the sunshine of a
southern sky. Here and there, along the coast,
rocks ran out Into the sea, forming little bays
and promontories, their shades of grey, and
red, and brown, enlivened by many-tinted
lichens. Then, to make the deep-blue water
by contrast all the bluer, Cannes, with Its white
and glittering buildings, came stretching down
to meet it as it laved the shore.

The grey-green of the olive trees gave a
touch of more sober colouring to a picture
otherwise so bright and gay; while behind
were the mountain ranges, clothed In their
delicate shades of grey and purple ; and further
still the snow-capped peaks of the more lofty
Alps stood out against the clear blue sky.

Here and there, on the tranquil bosom of the
azure waters, a felucca glided, appearing all too
small for Its lateen sails, which glistened In the
sunshine bright as the wings of some huge
sea-bird. On the shore, near the landing-stage,
all was colour and noise and movement among
the light-hearted children of the south.

One bright morning In February, an Englishman,
fishing tackle In hand, made his way
through the Babel on the beach. He was
assailed on all sides by eager boatmen, shouting
and protesting, In their French Italian patois,
the respective merits of their boats. But he
passed good-naturedly through their midst,
declining all offers with a shake of the head ;
and found his way to a spot where a solitary
boatman waited, with his boat already floating
on the water.

When the gesticulating crowd which followed
perceived his object, they retreated good-humouredly,
laughing and showing their white
teeth. The Englishman sprang Into the boat,
and the boatman quickly rowed It far from the
noisy landing-stage, until the details of this last
were merged In the fair picture of the town
nestling amid its garden-covered hills.

And as the distance from the shore increased,
range upon range of mountains appeared beyond
each higher than the last, as the foreground
sank into comparative insignificance.

The Englishman was Roger North ; and
though his object seemed to be a day's fishing,
this was rather an excuse than a reality.

His genuine desire was for a long day to
himself, secure from interruption. Therefore,
arrived at the fishing ground, the old boatman
was not a little surprised at the apathy of his
employer, for many a time during the day
Roger was unaware that he had a bite until
his attention was called to the circumstance by
his companion. But the latter, belonging to a
race who well understand the delight of dolce
far niente, willingly adapted himself to the
situation, and possibly thanked his patron saint
for sending him an Englishman whose native
energy and restlessness seemed for the nonce
to have fallen asleep.

And Roger had reason to be absorbed, for
he had set himself the difficult task of working
out a problem. How was he to reconcile the
love and duty that he owed his mother with the
new love which had grown within his breast ?

Or, if the two proved irreconcilable, which was
to give way to the other ?

He had left England with the fixed intention
of seeing his mother comfortably settled at
Cannes, and then of returning to seek Kate,
and pursue the wooing which had been arrested
by her father's death. To this end he persuaded
Mrs. North to invite a distant cousin, Agatha
Blythe, to accompany them, thus securing a
companion for her during his absence.

Three weeks after their arrival Roger was
on the point of telling his mother that he
proposed leaving her for a time, when she
caught a fresh cold, and was confined to her room
for several weeks. Though by no means so
dangerously ill as in Scotland, he did not like
to leave her ; and it was the middle of January
before she was sufficiently convalescent for the
subject to be mentioned. Rather to his astonishment,
she seemed to have an insurmountable
objection to his return ; and any allusion
to it invariably produced a bad effect.

Thus matters went on until even Roger's
patience became exhausted, and he determined
to take some decided step. The conviction
had been growing in his mind that she suspected

the true cause of his desire to return to England,
and was opposed to it. Should he or
should he not confide in her, and trust that
motherly sympathy would overcome any personal
objections ? And if  as he half feared 
she was immovable in her opposition to the
idea of Kate Galbraith as a daughter, should
he relinquish his best hopes at her bidding ?
No word of love had yet been breathed by
him ; and, maybe, it was but his own happiness
which might have to be sacrificed. But no, he
could not make the sacrifice. These long
months of absence had but entwined his love
round every fibre of his being. Were he to do
so he might  glad thought !  be sacrificing
Kate's happiness as well as his own ; and
even filial duty could not demand so much.
Surely, once married, his mother's stern
nature would soften beneath his wife's sweet'
influence.

A straightforward path was the only one
which Roger knew how to follow. Thus his
self-communing ended in the determination to
tell his mother frankly and at once about his
love ; and obtain, if it might be, her blessing
on his suit. Any way, he could delay his

departure no longer  not a day, not an hour,
after he had spoken.

And when he had come to this determination
the water seemed bluer, and the air more
balmy, and the sunshine of the delicious day
more joyous, as he gave himself up to dreams
of a bright future.

It was late in the afternoon when the little boat
came alongside the landing stage, and Roger
jumped ashore. He paid the boatman with a
liberality that caused loud and vociferous blessings
to be showered upon his head. All eyes
were attracted towards him as a prize to be
secured on some lucky and future day. The
walk to the villa, which nestled high upon the
hill, and commanded a lovely view was a fairly
long one. But Roger's active limbs made
nothing of the climb, and he felt something this
evening which gave additional elasticity to his
step, and would have carried him fifty times
the distance without fatigue.

The soft air was redolent with violets, whose
scent was wafted from the acres cultivated for
their perfume. Then too there were picturesque
peasants selling bunches of them in the
streets, and they bloomed in all the villa

gardens. And violets recalled to him the
woods and banks of Belton, with many a spot
where Kate and he had roamed together, and,
 please Heaven, should roam again before
another season brought the Belton violets
into bloom.

Roger reached the villa in high spirits.
But before the evening was over he was
destined to pay a penalty for his undue elation.
When he went indoors, the windows were
already closed to exclude the treacherous
sunset air. A wood fire was blazing on the
hearth, and as the villa was the property of
an English family, and furnished in accordance
with English tastes, the aspect of the drawing-room
was comfortable and homelike. Mrs.
North had returned from her afternoon drive
some two hours earlier, and was resting in an
arm-chair with the English papers by her
side.

She was not one in whom severe illness
makes very marked changes. Always thin and
colourless, there was little room for alteration
in these particulars. In her case weakness of
voice and feebleness of movement were the
traces left behind ; but lately she had taken
VOL. I. 16

rapid strides towards complete recovery, and
the voice which greeted Roger was strong
and decided in its tones, as of old.

'' I am sorry you were not a little earlier,
Roger ; Sir Bevis and Lady Fortescue have
been here. They carried Agatha away with
them, as they intend to have some music at
their house this evening. They wanted you
to go also. I must send Robert to fetch
Agatha home to-night, unless you will follow
her there."

'' Not I, mother," answered Roger. '' I am
rather glad to have escaped ; it is quite a longtime
since we have had an evening alone
together." And he laid his hand in a pleasant
son-like fashion on Mrs. North's shoulder.

The opportunity for speaking to his
mother had come almost sooner than he
expected. All dinner time it was a little
difficult to throw off the feeling that something
momentous was impending. It is never
an easy matter to talk freely on indifferent
subjects when waiting to make an important
disclosure. And so Roger found it. He was
far from being a moral coward, but for years
his ruling motive had been to minister to his

mother's pleasure ; and now he was about to
announce a something which he intuitively felt
was likely to be unwelcome.

They had brought their English footman
to Cannes, and he waited on them during
dinner, so that any private conversation was
perforce postponed until they were settled in
the drawing-room.

Then Roger felt that the hour had come,
and he began to pace the room restlessly.

Cannot you sit down quietly, Roger,"
remarked Mrs. North, '' instead of fidgeting ? "
Roger accepted this as a signal to commence.
He came and stood on the hearth-rug. Then
somewhat abruptly he began, 

'' Mother, I think of starting for England
tomorrow or the next day."

This is rather sudden."

Well, no  I have been wanting to go for
some time, as you well know. And now that
you seem so much stronger, you must not mind
my leaving you."

Of course you can do as you like," said
Mrs. North ; but there was a tinge of displeasure
in her tone.

Yes," said Roger, dreamily.

Then he turned, and leant against the
mantelpiece. Presently he went on hurriedly,


*' I have a particular reason for wishing to
go.

'' Indeed!"

I want to see Kate, and ask her to be my
wife."

It cannot be said that Mrs. North appeared
surprised ; but a stony look came over her
face, and she did not speak a word.

*' Mother ! " said Roger, almost in a tone of
entreaty, " I have told you this because I want
you to wish me ' God speed.' Will you not
doit?"

'' It is impossible, Roger. The best wish I
can give you is that she may refuse you."

Refuse me ! Mother, is that all the sympathy
you have to give ? "

Yes, when I see you labouring under an
infatuation for a pretty coquettish face."

The warm blood rushed to Roger's cheek.
When he spoke again it was in the low, hard
tones of suppressed emotion.

I feared this. You never did Kate justice.
Mine is no infatuation, but the sober love of a

man for one In whom he sees the germ of alla
woman's noblest qualities, blended with the
simplicity and freshness of a child. It Is for
her sweet disposition that I love her  not for
her face alone. If you come to a question of
beauty, she has not the beauty of Constance
Erskine or many another ; but to me hers is
the loveliest face In the world  and will be to
my dying day ! "

'' Your words only give confirmation to my
previous opinion, Roger. Nothing but infatuation
could make you regard a young, unformed
girl as endowed with all the qualities of a tried
woman. If you marry her in all probability
your many-coloured bubble will burst. She is
altogether too childish and shallow to be a
suitable wife for a man like you ; and I should
not be doing my duty as a mother If I did not
raise my warning voice before it Is too late."

Roger sighed, a sigh of disappointment.
Visions of many a trying scene for himself, and
perhaps for Kate, rose before him In the vista
of the future. What could be done to move
that Inexorable will ? Would an appeal to his
long years of filial devotion, to her motherly
tenderness, be of no avail ? At least he could

but try. His voice was gentle and pleading
when he spoke again.

*' Mother ! you forget that I am no boy, to be
lightly swayed by an idle fancy. I am a man,
and know my mind. With me nov it must be
Kate for my wife or none other. When you
remember this  when you think how I have
never wittingly gone against you in any matter
since you and I were left together, alone in the
world, surely, even if I am acting against your
judgment, you will credit me with deep and
earnest feeling  you will believe me when I tell
you that my life's happiness is at stake. For
once I ask you to sacrifice any wishes you may
have formed to mine. By all the love you bear
me, once more I ask you bid me ' God speed,'
and, trust me, you will live to bless this day,
and find in Kate a daughter who will cast her
sunshine round us both."

Nrs. North's lips grew whiter as she listened
to her son's appeal ; but there was no sign of
yielding in her stern face ; and the very hands
which lay, one over the other, on her lap, had
a look of immovable resolution.

She answered slowly, and with decision, 

'' I am sorry, Roger, that it is impossible forme

to look upon this matter in the same Hight
as you do. Were I to wish you ' God speed '
it would be a lie upon my lips. It is six months
since you have seen this girl, and it is my one
remaining hope that when you meet after so
long a separation your eyes may be opened to
the fact that you have been worshipping a
phantom, and that the reality is comparatively
worthless."

'' Never ! " exclaimed Roger, vehemently.

Once more he paced the room, hardly knowing
what he was about, and unaware that his
mother was watching him with furtive eyes.

At last he came quickly to her, and before
she could stop him by look or gesture, he knelt
down, and put his arm around her. '' Mother,"
he pleaded, " do not let this love of mine grow
into a barrier between us. Think what that
would mean  how barren it would make your
life. And as for mine, though I might be surrounded
by wife and children, it would take
away half its sunshine. Let there be sympathy
between us. Once more I implore you before
it is too late  give me your blessing ! "

But Mrs. North's perverse hands were laying
up for herself a rod wherewith she was one day

to be scourged. It was her will that he should
marry another. If he thwarted that will, on
him be the blame. " I have no wish to quarrel
with you, Roger. If you marry Kate Galbraith
you shall have no cause to complain of my conduct
towards her. More I cannot say without
playing the part of a hypocrite."

She did not even bend down to kiss that
earnest, pleading face which was so near her
own, and Roger rose  silenced at last.

Very well, mother," and his voice seemed
to have caught a reflection of her sternness.
'' But I hope you quite understand that I shall
start for London tomorrow."

Then, after a painful pause, he said something
about making his arrangements, and left
the room.

Mrs. North sat on, hardly moving a muscle,
for an hour or more. After that she rose and
went to her room, and mother and son met no
more that night.

When Roger entered the breakfast-room
next morning he found Agatha Blythe pouring
out the tea.

Good morning, Agatha. Where is my
mother ? "

*' She is not getting up for breakfast this
morning," replied Agatha, looking a Httle
troubled.

Agatha Blythe was one of those women
whom it is very pleasant to see busily about
household duties ; and the marvel was that she
had lived for thirty years without any wise man
securing her to be the presiding genius of his
hearth. Thank heaven there are many such
women in the world  women who seem quite
content if they be but allowed to minister to
the cares and wants of others.

Though unmarried, Agatha had the keenest
sympathy for every phase of married life.
None would listen to a love tale or assist at
a wedding with greater delight. And when it
came to the more prosaic troubles of sick
children, small means, or other domestic worries,
still there was no more sympathizing friend
than Agatha. Her share of this world's goods
was small, and more than half of what she had
she gave away. Her home was with a married
sister, who could hardly ever be induced to
spare her ; for who so useful as Agatha to help
in a thousand duties that no other cared to
undertake ? And withal, she was so modest,

SO humble in her estimate of herself, that to
those who had eyes to see she was as good asa
whole volume of sermons in teaching the
beauties of unselfishness.

For years Mrs. North had shown her a
patronizing kindness, which Agatha returned
with the warmest admiration and love ; while
for Roger Agatha felt the sincere regard of
a sister. No pleasant arrangement could
have been possible for all parties than that
she should accompany the Norths to Cannes.
But Roger was obliged to lay most tremendous
stress upon their need of her before he could
induce her sister to spare Agatha for so long
a time.

Roger seated himself at the table before
asking, 

Is my mother ill ? "

'' N  no. I don't think she is 111, but I
am afraid something has occurred to upset
her."

Roger gave a slightly Impatient sigh.

'' I was talking of starting for England today,
but unless I am sure that my mother is as
well as usual, I will wait until tomorrow. I
will go and see her after breakfast."

She particularly asked that she might not be
disturbed," said Agatha.

*' In that case I must certainly wait until
tomorrow, for I cannot go without seeing
her."

By-and-bye Mrs. North made her appearance.
She treated her son exactly as usual, and made
no allusion to the conversation of the previous
evening. Only she seemed to have accepted
the idea of his journey to England as a settled
fact, and once or twice she spoke of it, and
asked him to execute this or that commission.

"I suppose you will go to Belton ? " she
remarked.

Of course, mother," replied Roger.

*' Do you propose returning here ? "

'mother, of course I do!" he exclaimed,
somewhat hurt.

Have you any idea when ? "

The sunburn on Roger's cheek could not
conceal a deeper flush.

I cannot say exactly, but I will write and
let you know."

No further confidences passed between them.
Secretly Roger hoped against hope all day
that she would soften into some show of

sympathy before he left, but It was not to
be. She made no sign, and he felt It was
useless to plead any further. He was glad
when the hour of departure came. His mother
said good-bye in her usual quiet manner, and
went for her dally drive In the bright midday
sun. Agatha stayed at home and busied
herself with collecting rugs and anything she
thought Roger might need on the long journey,
for he Intended to travel through to London
without stopping on the way.

Everything was ready, and the last moments
had come, when Agatha said, half shyly, 

'' Roger, I have felt very sorry to see you so
troubled the last two days. I hope you will
not mind my saying that I guess the reason of
your journey. You know I have been so much
with you at Belton," she added In apology,
"that I could not help knowing; and she is
such a dear girl. Let me use a sister's privilege,
and wish you success."

And the tears of sympathy stood In her kind
eyes ; for she had noticed Mrs. North's displeasure,
and felt extremely for her cousin.

Her words fell like balm on a sore heart.

'' Thank you, thank you, Agatha. Goodbye

; take care of my mother for me, like the
kind sister that you are. Good-bye once more."
Then he pressed her hand, and was gone.

Yes ! he was gone ; and though feeling his
mother's want of sympathy most keenly, when
once he had started on the journey his spirits
began to rise, and his heart beat joyfully ashe
thought that every hour was bringing him
nearer Kate.

How slowly the train seemed to move when
compared to his eager wishes ! How it crept
along the shore In sight of the blue Mediterranean
and the dancing waves !

At last white, dusty Marseilles was reached,
and the travellers turned out to dine. Roger
went too, mechanically, and because everyone
else did. When they started again the evening
was closing in, and he thought himself fortunate
to secure a cotipd with only one other passenger,
a Frenchman. He talked a little to Roger, but
Roger's French was Indifferent, so every excuse
existed for allowing the conversation to drop.

By-and-bye It grew dark, and the Frenchman
proceeded to make himself comfortable for the
night. He replaced his patent-leather boots
by list slippers ; he put on a black cloth cap

with flaps to cover his ears ; then, rolling one
rug into a pillow, and covering himself with
another, he lay down to sleep. One or twice
he opened his eyes, and felt surprised that
his English companion had not followed his
example ; but sat gazing, gazing out of the
window with wakeful dark blue eyes.

The dreary landscape with its desolate landes
was gradually lost in the darkness ; and still
Roger gazed into the black night.

Lyons was reached ; and all was bustle and
confusion, waking even the most sleepy.
Figures in curious headgear, and with slippered
feet, hurried along the platform to obtain their
cup of steaming coffee.

Then came a ringing of bells, and travellers
hurrying to look for places difficult to find in
the uncertain light. And then a banging of
doors, a screaming of engines, a shouting of
guards, until they were once more in darkness
and comparative quiet, away for Paris.

The Frenchman went to sleep again, refreshed
and comforted, but the Englishman
knew that no sleeping dreams could be more
sweet than those waking ones which filled his
thoughts. So he watched on, and the train

never rushed through the darkness fast enough
to satisfy his impatient will.

With the grey dawn breaking they were
nearing Paris, and it seemed to him that he
had been travelling for centuries since Cannes
was left behind.

TOO LATE.

It was the first day of March. The month
was paying all deference to the old adage,
and commencing its career with a lion-like rage.
All night the wind had blown wildly, and
to-day sharp, angry showers came rushing
through the air, and passing by had left a cold
blue sky and gleams of chilly sunshine in their
wake. A hailstorm had just blown over, and
the sun was peeping out, making the wet
pavement shiny ; and presently the wind blew
fiercely and dried it with its cold blast, finding
once more a playfellow in the dust it made.

At an early hour for London callers a
hansom pulled up at the door of Mr. Beaumont's
house in Portland Place, and Roger North
sprang out.

During the long journey from Cannes his

mind had been full of joy at the prospect of
meeting Kate. He had thought but little of
what was to come after. He had not tormented
himself with doubts as to whether or no
she would respond to the love he had come to
offer. But now, so near his goal, he was
suddenly and overpowering assailed by the
thought, Will she be changed ? Was he nota
vain self-deceiver, and could he, a man so
many years her senior, and devoid of all attractions
to captivate the fancy, win her young
love ? He could but rely on the true heart
which he was prepared to lay at her feet.

He felt almost inclined to turn away and
take fresh time to consider what he should say,
and what he should do ; but it was too late.
In answer to inquiries the footman had replied
that Mr. Beaumont was out, but that Miss
Galbraith was at home, and Roger was already
on the stairs. The drawing-room was empty,
and it was a relief to find that he had yet a
moment's breathing time before he should see
Kate face to face.

He walked to the window and looked out.
The gleam of sunshine continued ; a troop of
Life Guards, with band playing, was passing

VOL. I. 17

down the broad street, their bright accoutrements
glittering in the sun, and all without
was cheerful. Then he turned and glanced
round the room. He had been there before,
but an indescribable change pervaded it,
speaking of Kate's presence, and rousing In his
breast a thrill of joy. Cut flowers and growing
plants were in profusion, the former arranged
with a dainty grace that he full well recognized ;
while the plants were carefully tended and
thriving as they only do when under the care
of hands that love them well. An easy-chair
looked as if had been lately vacated ; and a
work-basket, that Roger knew, lay on a table
close at hand. The piano was open, and music
was scattered about. Yes! the whole room
breathed of the presence which he loved.

A moment later the door was gently opened ;
there came a soft tread on the thick carpet, and
Kate stood by his side, her hand extended,
and a glad smile of welcome on her face.

Oh, Roger, you have come at last! I am
so pleased to see you ! "

He clasped her outstretched hand, and the
room seemed to swim before his eyes. Then,
when his vision came again, he scanned her

beloved face with eager eyes In order to satisfy
the yearning caused by those many months of
absence. Yes, she was changed. The contour
of her face was rounder, and the Increased
dignity of her carriage made it plainly apparent
that the girl had advanced another step towards
the woman.

But the tender eyes were still the same ; the
features sensitive as ever to express emotion.
Even now he saw a bright flush steal over cheek
and brow. Could it be in delight at seeing
him again ? His heart gave a throb of joy,
so powerful that he thought she could not fail
to notice it.

Kate was the first to speak again.

*' Have you come from Belton ? "

Belton ! " said Roger; and he felt hurt
that she should imagine for a moment that he
had not come straight to her. "No, not from
Belton, from Cannes direct. You know I
promised to come as soon as I could. My
mother's health has delayed me all this time."

I know of old that you never break your
promises," said Kate.

And then, as people often do whose hearts are
very full, they fell to talking of indifferent things.

But with all his own embarrassment, Roger
could not help noticing that Kate was somewhat
shy and confused. By-and-bye there was
a pause in the conversation, and the blush
which tinged her cheek now deepened into
a rosy red ; her eyes were bent upon the ground,
and the slender white hands clasped each other
nervously.

Roger," she said without looking up,
"you are such an old, old friend, just like a
brother, that there is something I must tell
you."

"Yes ? '' he said, gently.

He was surprised at her confusion, but not
the faintest shadow of the truth crossed his
mind to prepare him for the blow about to fall.

"Hardly anyone knows it yet," she went on,
hurriedly ; " but I must tell you  I am engaged
to be married."

Had her eyes been raised then, she must
have learned the truth. If a man in the full
vigour of health and youth were suddenly to
be shot through the heart, the change could be
no greater than that which passed across the
face of Roger North. Before she spoke, his
expression had been one in which both hope

and fear were struggling for ascendency ; but
hope was by far the more vigorous of the two.
Now, at one fell swoop, that hope was swept
away, and nothing but desolation remained
Instead.

He felt as though turned to stone ; he
could not speak. But Kate was too confused to
notice his silence, and continued In disjointed
sentences,  " It was only quite settled yesterday,
 that Is, he came to see uncle, and then
uncle gave his consent."

'' ' He '  who Is ' he ' ? " Roger seemed to
himself to have lost all feeling, all sensation.
It was as though he were contemplating the
pain of another man. One thought alone could
he grasp. He knew she loved him truly with
a sister's love, even could that never grow
into a deeper feeling ; and her tender heart
should not be grieved by seeing how he suffered.
This gave him strength to force the words
from his dry lips, and to himself his voice
sounded like that of a perfect stranger.

*' You have not told me yet who It Is,
Kate?"

A deeper blush dyed her cheek.

*' It Is Sydney Ferrars."

No name could have startled Roger more.
He had believed so confidence that Sydney
Ferrars had left England, and the feeling of
jealousy aroused at Belton had completely died
away.

Good heavens ! " he exclaimed. '' Sydney
Ferrars ! How can that be ? I did not know
that he was in England."

And his heart cried to itself," If I had known,
could my mother's health  could anything
have kept me so long away?"

'' He never left," said Kate, still looking
down ; 'rand  and wee have seen a great deal
of each other ever since I came to London."

Was it so ? Oh ! fool that he had been to
linger so long away ! But had he been there,
what chance could he have had against a man
so handsome, so gifted with all that charms
a woman ?

Roger," said Kate, with the assumed tone
of petulance he knew so well of old, "you do
not say anything ; are you like some of the
others, who think me too much of a child to
be married ?"

No, Kate, no," he replied, with an effort.
It is not that, but I was so taken by surprise.

Of course I wish you happiness, you must
know that,  you who have ever been my dear
young sister."

Then Kate looked up.

'roger!" she exclaimed, quite startled,
how ill you look ! "

Do I . " he said, and passed his hand over
his hot brow. "No, I am not ill. Perhaps I
am tired ; for now I think of it I have not
slept since leaving Cannes."

The want of sleep had not affected him
before, but it told upon him now. The passage
across the Channel had been stormy ; and
instead of arriving in London in time for a
good night's rest, it was morning when he
reached his hotel ; and he had dressed and
breakfasted in haste that he might not delay
this meeting, looked forward to with so much
hope, but to end in  what ?

He did nqt yet know.

No wonder you are tired ! '* exclaimed
Kate.

Yes, now I think of it my head aches a
little, a very unusual thing for me ; " and Roger
made a faint attempt to laugh. '' I will take
a turn in the fresh air, and it will soon pass off."

He moved as if about to leave.

*' Don't go yet, Roger ! Uncle will be in
at luncheon time  please wait to see him, and 
and"  the blushes came again  " he is coming
too, and I want you to know each other better.
I have so few relations, and we have always
been like brother and sister. My being married
will make no difference in that, will it, Roger ? "
she added, almost in a pleading tone.

'' No, Kate, it never shall. But you must
not be hurt if I go now ; I will come again tomorrow.
I really cannot stay now."

Roger felt feverishly anxious to get away.
To face Sydney Ferrars was more than he
could do that day. Before he did so he must
have time to battle with the first brunt of the
shock he had just received.

"Very well," said Kate, reluctantly; "but
stay a minute, while I fetch something that I
wish very much to show you."
And with this she left the room.
Roger's first impulse was to take advantage
of her absence to quit the house, and bring
the almost intolerable agony of this interview
to a close. Then he thought that by so doing
he might arouse in her a suspicion of his true*

feelings, of which he could not but believe she
was in perfect ignorance. So he sat down to
wait her return with a stunned, heavy feeling.
His eyes fell upon a little bunch of violets
which he had noticed in the bosom of her dress.
They had dropped on the carpet as she rose.
A sudden desire seized him to possess this one
relic of his lost love ; he picked the violets from
the floor, he pressed them to his lips, and placed
them carefully in the breast-pocket of his coat.

He had hardly done so when Kate returned,
carrying a portrait in oils. She held it up
before him.

~''See," she said, ''Mr. Rivers painted this
for me."

It was an admirable likeness of her father,
taken from a photograph, with the assistance of
Kate's memory and suggestions.

The reproduction of the kind, benevolent
face, wonderfully life-like in its expression,
cost Roger a fresh pang. The words he had
often recalled so joyfully now rang in his ears
as a funeral knell. How well he remembered
them  " I should like  to see her the wife of
a man like you, Roger." And now it could
never be, all that was past.

To please Kate, Roger admired the painting ;
and then, rather abruptly, he tore himself
away.

*' Good-bye, Kate, you can tell Mr. Beaumont
that I will come and see him tomorrow. May
Heaven bless and prosper you now and always,
my little sister ! "

And then, before Kate could prevent him, he
was gone.

She sat for a while with her head resting on
her hand, and a somewhat grave expression on
her face. " I never asked him one word about
his own engagement," she thought, with pain,
'' My head was too full of myself, and it escaped
my memory ; but I will remember tomorrow.
I wonder if anything has gone wrong. I never
saw him look like that before."

When Roger found himself In the street, it
was a positive relief to feel the cold March
wind blowing in his face. His short-lived
gleam of sunshine had died away, had died
to be succeeded by thick black clouds, born of
the rushing wind, and tending he knew not
whither.

In that short half hour how all was changed !
Was it the same world ? Was he the same

man ? Were the cold and gloom which had
succeeded the former brightness types of what
his life would be ?

Down came the hail, stinging his face until
it almost bled. But he did not care. He met
the storm mechanically, and kept walking
northwards. Once or twice he was hailed by
cabman, who wondered to see a man like Roger
hurrying along regardless of the storm. But
he took no heed. Wrapped in his fierce and
mental strife all outward things were nothing.

It was instinct and that alone which preserved
him from being run over at the street
crossings, or from knocking against the passers
on the pavement. Northwards, ever northwards,
were his steps, until the crowded
thoroughfares, with their long rows of contiguous
buildings, dwindled to drear suburban
roads, with here and there a small and dingy
shop. Still on he walked. The sun shone
forth once more, and partly dried his coat ;
and then another shower. And by the time
that this had spent itself Roger had left
behind both town and suburbs, and was in
the open country. And yet he knew it not.

For fully three hours he continued his headlong

course ; until, of a sudden, a tiny child
ran from a cottage door across the path, and
Roger, without seeing It, knocked it down.
The little thing set up a piteous cry, and that
cry for help and consolation broke the spell.

The voice of the weak and tender never
appealed to him in vain. He stopped at once,
turned back, and with gentle hands lifted the
child from the ground.

Its mother came running from the cottage,
raising her shrill notes.

'' And can't a poor baby run out Into the
road without being knocked down by folks as
are too high and mighty to look where they
are going ? "

'' My good woman'* said Roger, " It was
an accident. I am very sorry, but I think the
child Is more frightened than hurt."

And gently he placed the screaming child
in its mother's arms.

The woman was mollified a little, but continued
half tremblingly, 'rand the new print
frock, as I got the stuff for last market day,
all tired and spoiled."

"As that was my fault, you must allow me
to repair it," said Roger; and he placed some

money in her hand. Then he passed on, but
with eyes now open to see where he was going.
A Httle further, a Gothic church, with its tall
and tapering spire, stood a few paces from the
road. A woman, who had been cleaning
inside, was at the door, about to turn the key.
Roger walked quickly up the path and spoke
to her.

*' Have you charge of the church keys ?
If so, will you let me have them awhile ? I
have been walking a long way ; and I want to
go inside and rest quietly."

The woman looked surprised ; but after a
keen scrutiny of his person she consented,
pointing out her cottage, and bidding him
bring the keys there when he had done with
them.

Roger thanked her, and entered the building.
When she was out of sight he closed and
locked the door.

Then, by degrees, the tumult which raged
within commenced to die ; and stillness and
peace descended upon his storm-tossed soul.

It was long before he left the church. The
old woman began to grow uneasy about the
keys, for which she was responsible, and

wondered what the gentleman could be doing.
She was standing in her cottage porch, meditating
whether she should walk over and see if he
were still there, when he came out, locked the
church door, and presently was by her side.

"Thank you," he said, simply, holding out
the keys.

But his step was so weary, and his face so
haggard, that the good woman could not help
exclaiming, 

'' Eh, sir! you do look tired ; and your coat
be wet too. You will have taken cold sitting
there so long."

"Yes, I am tired," answered Roger, wearily.

Then he glanced down at his clothes, and
became aware of their weather-beaten appearance.
There is but a step from the sublime
to the ridiculous, and Roger almost laughed at
the thought of the surprise he should create if
seen in such guise at the West End hotel which
he had left that morning.

The day was drawing to a close ; the wind
had lulled, and the sun was sinking peacefully
to rest, shedding a quiet subdued light over
the landscape. Roger could see the railway
and wayside station from where he stood, and

quickly made up his mind what it was best todo.
He would rest where he was for the night
and return to London by the morning train.
He was less likely to attract notice at an early
hour from any one but the servants of the
hotel ; and that could not be avoided.

'' Is there a quiet inn where I can pass the
night ? " he asked.

There be two," replied the woman. '' The
railway inn is a new place, and I won't say a
word again it. But the Nag's Head is kept by
a decent man, like his father was before him."

She pointed in the direction of an old-fashioned
hostelry, with rustic porch and signboard,
hanging on its post, at a little distance
from the door.

Roger thanked her, and made his way first
to the station. He ascertained that an early
train stopped there for passengers to London,
which would suit his purpose ; and then he
bent his steps towards the Nag's Head.

The inn was clean and pleasant ; and by-and-bye
a simple meal was brought to him in a quiet
parlour. But he was almost too weary to
enjoy It, and was glad to be shown up the
steep little staircase to a lattice-windowed

chamber. The long journey, the two nights
without sleep, the strong emotions he had
endured, beginning with the painful interview
with his mother, and carrying him on through
all the vicissitudes of hope, until all hope was
dead and he was left to conquer his despair, 
all this had made him utterly worn out, past
even being able to feel. He had hardly laid
his head upon the lavender-scented pillow
before 'nature's soft nurse" came with her
soothing touch, and lulled his tired spirit to
forgetfulness.

Chapter
I.

II.

IV.
V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

X.

XI.

XII.

XIII.

XIV.

PAGE

I

VOL. 11.

BACK AT BELTON

FATA MORGANA . . . . .24

WEDDING BELLS 42

A LETTER FROM THE ESTANCIA MERCEDES 56
"IT IS THE LITTLE RIFT WITHIN THE

lute" . 2

"TO BE WEAK IS MISERABLE" . . Io

A NIGHT VIGIL . . . . . 120

THE ESTAN(:iA MERCEDES . . . I39

SYDNEY DISAPPEARS . . . . 163

A DARKSOME TIME 1 84

LEAD, KINDLY LIGHT " . . . . I97

ROGER VISITS MRS. STEPHENS . .2X8

A CURE IN THE BLACK COUNTRY . . 235

THE ICE IS BROKEN 258

CHAPTER PAGE

XV. "so EARLY, LEAVING ME BEHIND" . 279

XVL NEWS AT LAST 297

Evil SYDNEY'S LETTER 316

XVIII. A FATEFUL DAY 333

BACK AT BELTON.

The month of March was not many days old,
and the rain was coming down in good earnest,
when one afternoon Major Stephens drove
home in his dog-cart from the nearest railway
station, his horse stepping out at a rapid
pace. He was glad when Belton came insight,
and it did not take many minutes after
passing the old church and rectory to reach
his own gate, and pull up at his own front door.
Mrs. Stephens hurried into the hall to meet him.

** What a dreadful afternoon, Robert ! How
wet you are ! "

She helped to pull off his heavy coat, and
then the Major gave her a hearty embrace; for
this middle-aged and otherwise eminently practical
couple were yet romantic enough to be as
fond the one of the other  after many years

VOL. II. I

of married life  as when he was a gay young
officer courting his Colonel's lively daughter.

** Here are some letters for you, Maria," he
said, producing a bundle from one of his
pockets. '* And whom do you think I saw in
the train ? "

** How can I guess?" remarked his wife;
** it would take too long."

*swell, it was Roger North. He said that
he was coming home for a time."

** I am glad!" exclaimed Mrs. Stephens,
heartily; ** and I see you have brought me a
le-utter from Kate ; it will be an answer to mine
asking her to come and stay with us. If she
comes whilst Roger is here it will seem almost
like old times."

** Well," said the Major, ** go and read
your letters, and have some tea ready for me
by the time I have changed my things."

Half-an-hour later he entered the morning-room,
expecting to find a cosy tea-table and
a cheerful wife. The tea-table certainly stood
ready by the fire, with all its tempting appointments,
but the cheerful wife was changed into
a lady dissolved in tears.

** Good gracious, Maria ! " exclaimed the

Major, startled, *' what is the matter ? No
bad news, I hope"'

*' Kate is engaged to be married ! " replied
Mrs. Stephens, drying her tears, but in a tone
of great indignation.

The Major felt relieved.

*swell, surely, that is good news. Why
should you take it amiss? ''

** It cannot be good news when it is to the
wrong man ! "

'' Who is the wrong man ? "

'That Sydney Ferrars!" said Mrs. Stephens,
vindictively.

** Indeed ! well, I am sorry, as you don't
happen to like him ; only I really cannot
understand why you should not."

'* It is incomprehensible," exclaimed Mrs.
Stephens, not heeding her husband's remark.
** Nothing but her own words could have made
me believe it. I think I know Kate's character
as well as I ever knew any girl's, and am
certain that she will never be happy unless
she marries a man she can thoroughly respect
as well as love. I cannot understand it, and
do not believe for one moment that she is
really in love with him,"

* Come, come, my dear, you are a little
hard upon them both. He is a handsome and
attractive fellow, with whom no girl need be
ashamed of falling in love."

*' She should never have fallen in love with
him had I been at hand ! " cried Mrs.
Stephens. ' If only I had been ! But I
declare I will write now to Mr. Beaumont
and expostulate."

** Really, Maria," said the Major, somewhat
alarmed, *' I hope you will do nothing of the
kind ; we have no possible right to interfere.
No doubt Beaumont has his niece's interest at
heart as much as we have. He knows the
family, and has probably better grounds for
reposing confidence in the young man than
you have for distrusting him."

** I have very little confidence in Mr.
Beaumont's judgment in this matter, Robert.
For all his charming manner, I have always
thought him a selfish man, and believe he
will be easily satisfied with any plan that
takes Kate off his hands, and leaves him
with nothing to think of but his own pleasure."


*you must excuse my saying so, Maria,

but the Strong feeling you have in this matter
is making you somewhat uncharitable."

'you may call it want of charity, but it is
simply the plain unvarnished truth. I have
never felt easy since I heard from Kate that
she was so much with the Ferrars, and Sydney
Ferrars still there. But I never allowed
myself to imagine it could come to this.
And to think of her going to live in the
wilds of South America ! Judging from her
letter you really would suppose she was marrying
him more for that than for any other
reason. She dwells with far more enthusiasm
on the delight of seeing her sister than on
anything else. No,; I cannot understand it! "

Mrs. Stephens picked up the letter, which
she had allowed to fall on the ground in her
excitement, and began reading it again.

Presently a fresh idea struck her.

'' Did Roger North say anything about
this?"

" No  I only saw him for a few minutes."

'' Did you ask him if he had seen Kate in
town ? "

*' Certainly not. Why should I ? "

'No! but of course you are a man  you

were not likely to do so' said the lady, with
a shade of contempt in her tone for the want
of penetration shown by one of the other sex.

Before the evening was over, Major Stephens
was somewhat tired of the subject of Kate's
engagement ; for his wife could not let it rest.
On one point, however, she did not enlighten
him  namely, that her vexation arose fully as
much from the fact that she had set her heart
upon Kate's making a different marriage as
from dislike to Sydney Ferrars. It had long
been her great desire that her favourite should
become the wife of Roger North. It seemed
the most suitable and natural arrangement in
the world ; and she had felt perfectly sure for
some time that Roger himself was of the
same opinion. And now that her pleasant
little scheme was upset, she could hardly
conceal her chagrin, and only kept her
counsel because she did not wish to be
laughed at as a match-maker even by her
husband.

She puzzled herself by wondering if Roger
had ever spoken to Kate ; and how all had
managed to go so wrong. For she had been
fully persuaded that very little was needed to

ripen the girl's affection for her old friend into
something deeper. In the end, she could come
to no satisfactory conclusion ; but was feverishly
anxious to see Roger, and find out, if
possible, what his part in the drama had been.
But she had to wait several days. Major
Stephens went to the Hall, saw Roger, and
brought back word that he was very busy,
but had promised to dine with them before the
week was out. With this Mrs. Stephens had
to rest content ; though she would exceedingly
have liked to go at once, and storm him in his
own citadel.

Meanwhile, Kate's letter must be answered,
and this she found a matter of great difficulty,
and wasted much note-paper before composing
anything that pleased her. She did not write
to Mr. Beaumont, and not being allowed to
relieve her feelings in that direction, Major
Stephens and the servants suffered instead,
and found her exceedingly irascible.

When the day came for Roger to dine at the
Field House, he only arrived a few minutes
before dinner-time.

The first glance was enough to make Mrs.
Stephens feel pretty sure that her surprising

were correct, and that Kate's engagement
had dealt him a blow compared to which the
effect it had on herself was but as the touch of
a feather. However, she could not rest satisfied
without probing the wound which she felt
sure was there. An opportunity to do this
with no third person present would have been
preferable, but impatience would not allow her
to wait. She was really fond of Roger, but in
this instance was determined to gratify her
curiosity even at the expense of causing him
pain. Perhaps mixed with other feelings
was a little spice of anger at what she considered
to be a weak yielding to his mother's
will ; and she was more inclined to blame him
for his dilatory love-making than to pity him
for the misfortune which had thrown a successful
rival across his path.

During the progress of dinner, and while
the servants were in the room, the conversation
was on general topics. Mrs. Stephens refrained
purposely from any allusion to Kate's
engagement. Major Stephens, man-like, had
forgotten it in other subjects which were to
him of greater interest, and which he desired
to discuss with Roger. But dessert and wine

placed upon the table were the signals for
Mrs. Stephens to commence.

*' What do you think of Kate's engagement,
Roger? for of course you know about it. Did
you see her as you came through London ? "
Roger had schooled himself to the prospect of
having to reply to some such catechising, but
he found it convenient to ignore the first
question, and pass on to the second.

* Yes, I saw her more than once."

*' The news has quite taken my breath
away," said Mrs. Stephens. *' I can hardly
believe it. How was she looking ? Did she
seem happy ? "

*ras far as I could judge she seemed bothwell
and happy."

Up to this point he had borne the probe
unflinchingly.

I cannot understand it," exclaimed Mrs.
Stephens, with a toss of her head. *' It passes
my comprehension that she can find anything
in the man beyond a handsome face and a
beautiful voice. But a woman requires something
more than that in a husband. If Kate
were a shallow girl it would not surprise me,
but I always believed she would look for

Something deeper, and not be satisfied with a
mere exterior. I feel certain that he is a man
without a moral backbone ; and I wonder that
Mr. Beaumont, at least, does not see it. He
appears to have allowed the engagement
without the slightest demur. Did you gather
what his real opinion was?"

*' He seemed very pleased," said Roger.
*' He evidently has a great liking for
Ferrars."

** Well, I should never have believed a
man of his experience could be so blind ! "
exclaimed Mrs. Stephens.

*' My dear," expostulated her husband,
*ras I have told you before, you are really
very hard upon this young man. You know
nothing whatever against him. It is a matter
of simple prejudice."

*' Prejudice or no prejudice," she retorted,
warmly, ' time will show who is right. You
are prejudiced the other way, and, like Kate
and Mr. Beaumont, are taken by a fascinating
manner. But what is your opinion, Roger ? "

And she turned upon him, pitilessly.

* I  I hardly know him. He is certainly
handsome and agreeable ; but I have seen so

little of him that I cannot form a fair judgment."


*' Did you see him in London ? "

*eyes."

The probe had gone home ; and Roger
winced so palpably this time that the eyes
which watched him saw more than enough.
Then her woman's heart felt sorry, and from
that moment she tried to spare him. But the
conversation once started in this direction,
Major Stephens, seeing no cause to let it drop,
went on, 

*what vexes me is that she should leave
England. I suppose for a time, at all events,
he will be obliged to return and look after his
property. Is anything settled about that?"

*eyes," replied Roger; "they are to be
married the last week in April, and sail a few
weeks later."

Mrs. Stephens almost screamed.

'* Kate never mentioned that in her letter!
I never heard of such a disgracefully hurried
thing  Mr. Beaumont ought to be ashamed of
himself!"

"Ferrars is obliged to return as soon as he
can," said Roger. *' Naturally he was anxious

to be married before he left; so when Mr.
Beaumont had consented to the engagement,
Ido not see how he could refuse to allow an
early date to be fixed."

*' Well, well ! " said the Major, in a tone that
was meant to pacify his wife. '' And I suppose
they will want you to assist at the wedding,
North?"

** Yes, I have promised Kate to be there."

For the first time in their intercourse Mrs.
Stephens noticed a look on Roger's face which
reminded her of Mrs. North, and again compassion
induced her to change the subject.

** Don't let us talk about it any more it
makes me quite cross. Have you seen the
new rector yet, Roger ? and what do you think
of him?"

And so Kate was mentioned no more that
evening, though Mrs. Stephens  had by no
means discovered all that she wanted to know.

A few days later another long letter came
from Kate. It confirmed the information
Roger had given of the wedding being fixed
for the last week in April; and in her own
name and Mr. Beaumont's the girl begged
that her old friends would come and spend

the last month before her marriage under her
uncle's roof. Mrs. Stephens' first impulse was
to refuse ; but real affection triumphed in the
end, and she wrote a kind answer accepting
the invitation.

"There, I've done it, Robert!" she said,
when closing the letter ; " but all the same it
is extremely dangerous for me to go to that
house if I am to hold my tongue regarding
my disapproval of the whole affair. Human
nature is weak, and my self-control is limited,
and it will surprise me if I remain there a
month without letting Kate, or Mr. Beaumont,
or Sydney Ferrars, or still more likely all three
of them, know what I think about it ! "

Part of Kate's letter was taken up v/ith
asking Mrs. Stephens to try and find a Belton
girl who would accompany her as a personal
attendant to South America. Kate, herself,
had been quite prepared to go without a maid,
but Mr. Beaumont made a great point of this,
for his niece's comfort. In the end it was
arranged that Kate should take some one who
would not consider herself strictly a lady's
maid, but would be ready to turn her hand to
anything when they were settled on their

estangia ; and she was most anxious to have
a native of Belton, who would naturally feel
some attachment to herself.

This commission gave Mrs. Stephens something
to do and think about, for it was not
easy to find a suitable girl willing to leave
England. After searching for more than a
week in vain, she was intending to write and
tell Kate to look out elsewhere, when chance
threw the right person in her way.

She was busy one morning at her writing
table  for she had a voluminous correspondence
 when one of the servants entered the
room.

** Please, ma'am, Mrs. Willis is here; and
she asked me to tell you that old Mrs. Bates
died suddenly last night, and Miss Bates have
took on so that she thinks you would like to
know, and maybe step up to see her, which
would be a real charity, she says''

** I am sorry to hear that, Susan. Tell Mrs.
Willis I will certainly go and see poor Keziah
this morning. Stay  I will go and speak to
Mrs. Willis myself; " and Mrs. Stephens left
her writing, and hastened to speak to the kindhearted
neighbour who had brought the news.

It was not long before Mrs. Stephens found
her way to the neat brick house, one of a row,
where Mrs. Bates and her daughter Keziah
had lived in modest independence for several
years, supported by the daughter's skill and
industry as a dressmaker. Mrs. Stephens
knew Keziah well, for she often employed her,
and had her frequently to the house for a day's
sewing. She also knew the young woman's
history, which was rather a sad one.

Keziah Bates was eight-and-twenty ; and,
until a year ago, she was the brightest, freshest
girl in Belton. Then a blow came which
changed her to a sweet but sad-faced woman.
At the age of seventeen she and an old playfellow
plighted their troth with a broken sixpence
; and determined bravely to work and
do their duty each by a widowed and infirm
parent until enough had been put by to justify
their marriage. Keziah remained at Belton,
and sewed bright dreams into many a dull
piece of work. Her lover went to Hammerton,
and, as he was a smart young fellow,
obtained a situation as clerk at some ironworks.
For nine years they corresponded,
met occasionally, and lived in hope. Then

the time seemed to be at hand when they
might prudently think of marriage, and Keziah
sat up late and rose early to prepare her
modest wedding outfit. One morning the
postman left a letter at the door; it was addressed
in the dear, well-known handwriting
that always made her heart to beat with joy.
She laid down her work to read it. A few
minutes later her old mother came into the
room, to find her daughter lying on the floor
in a death-like swoon, with a letter clutched
in her unconscious hand. It was from him
who had been her lover, but her lover now
no longer, for it told how he had married
another, and four pages were devoted to
excuse his conduct in having been attracted
by a prettier face. Poor Keziah ! she made
no loud plaints, and bore her trial both
patiently and bravely. But now the sudden
shock of her mother's death seemed to cutaway
the last prop of life ; and when Mrs.
Stephens arrived she found her completely
prostrate.

The kind lady did all that was possible to
comfort the poor thing ; and coming home
her thoughts were still much occupied with

her sad case. Suddenly the idea occurred
that Kezlah would be the very person to go
with Kate. She had no ties now that her
mother was dead, and probably would be glad
to try a complete change of life.

When once Mrs. Stephens conceived a plan,
she was not the person to hesitate in carrying
it through. She waited until the day after
the funeral, and then went to the red brick
house, and found Keziah very white and wan,
trying to do some sewing.

"Keziah," she began, having taken the
proffered seat, 'what do you think of doing
for the future ? "

*' I don't know, ma'am," she answered, with
trembling lip. '' I suppose I shall stay on
here."

** Don't you think you will be very lonely?
Should you not like a change?"

** I used to think I should before mother
died."

*' Well, I have something to propose which
will be better for you than staying here. You
know Miss Galbraith is to be married, and
will accompany her husband to South America.
Will you go with her as her servant ? You

VOL. II. 2

know her and she knows you. She does not
want a fine lady's maid, but one who will be
prepared to do anything. What do you say,
Keziah?"

**I cannot tell, ma'am, all in a moment,"
said the poor girl, quite flurried. ** I should
love to be with Miss Galbraith  and I have
nothing now to leave behind ; but you must
give me a little time to think about it, please,
ma'am."

The result was that Keziah spent a sleepless
night, and came to Mrs. Stephens next
morning to say that she had made up her
mind to go if Miss Galbraith would take her.
So the matter was settled, and Keziah was
busy enough for the next month in arranging
her little affairs before joining her new mistress
in London.

The date of Major and Mrs. Stephens'
promised visit to Mr. Beaumont was drawing
near; and all these weeks Mrs. Stephens often
debated in her mind whether or no she should
previously invite Kate to spend a few days
with them, that she might take leave of her
old home before quitting England. But Roger
North remained at the Hall ; and though Mrs.

Stephens seldom saw him, except in church,
her sympathies were now strongly on his side,
and she determined at last not to add her
quota to any suffering he might have to endure
by seeing Kate once more in their old haunts.

Woman-like, she was getting quite interested
over this wedding, although she did not in
her heart approve of it, and was becoming
quite eager to be on the spot ; when events
occurred that sent her and the Major in
another direction, and to quite other scenes.
A telegram arrived one morning telling of
the sudden and dangerous illness of Major
Stephens' brother, who was rector of a parish
in Yorkshire. His wife  a delicate woman with
a large family  implored them to come to her
in her trouble, and they went at once. Mrs.
Stephens excelled as a sick nurse, and was in
her element at the bedside of her brother-in-law.
He lingered for three weeks, and then
died. The widow, overwhelmed by her loss,
could not be left, even had they felt themselves
in tune for taking part in wedding festivities.
So the promise to Kate had to be broken.

And why did Roger North linger at Belton
In place of returning to Cannes ?

He had written from London to the housekeeper
directing her to have the study in
readiness ; for the living rooms were dismantled
during the absence of both master
and mistress. And on a day named he
arrived at the Hall. The servants and all the
people about the place were overjoyed at his
return, and gave him a warm welcome. Still,
in his present frame of mind he could not but
feel the dreariness and loneliness of such a
home-coming.

One of his first acts was to write two letters
the first, quite a short one, to his mother,
telling the bare fact of Kate's engagement,
and going on to say that he found much
business awaiting his attention at home, and
therefore he would not return to Cannes except
to bring her back in May, unless she particularly
wanted him. The second letter was
a private one to Agatha, asking her to watch
over his mother's health, and let him know at
once if any necessity arose for his return.

It was natural that Roger should wish to be
alone ; but it would have been the impulse of
his affectionate disposition to seek for sympathy
from his mother at this crisis in his life, had

she shown sympathy when he appealed to her
in the matter of his love for Kate. But she
had refused it then, and he could not go to
her now. From any other, sympathy at present
would have been actual pain. In these
early days he could not even bear to face
Agatha, because she would know something of
what he suffered; and gentle and unobtrusive
as her compassion would be, he preferred to
keep away from it. Thus Mrs. North, unknowingly,
was suffering the firstfruits of her
punishment.

So far as Roger knew, none other guessed
his secret, and he endeavoured to avoid Mrs.
Stephens' penetrating eyes as much as possible.

It was no idle plea that he found plenty of
business at home. There was in truth a great
accumulation, for which he was most thankful,
since it kept him fully occupied all day and
often late into the evening ; and when bedtime
came he was too thoroughly tired to lie
awake. When the servants found that he was
not making merely a few days' stay, but would
remain on, they wanted to put the house in
order, but he would not have it, and only
allowed them to prepare one of the smaller

apartments to be used as a dining-room ; and
the rest of his time he passed in the study.

Not the least of his trials was to visit the
rectory, and find strangers there. But it had
to be done, and he did it. The new rector,
Mr. Hill, was a married man, with a family
of children ranging from twelve years old to
a baby in arms. Both he and Mrs. Hill were
thoroughly good people, and in every way
anxious to fulfil their duties. But Mr. Hill
was a man in the prime of life, full of energy,
and perhaps a little too much in a hurry to
work everything in the parish up to the
standard which appeared right in his judgment.
Hence, Roger found work to be done
in smoothing over little difficulties and misunderstandings
which had arisen between the
new rector and his parishioners.

Among other things, Mr. Hill was very
eager to restore the church, and appealed to
Roger on the subject in their first interview.
There could be no doubt that restoration was
needed both inside and out, in many ways
actually for the safety of the structure ; while
the old-fashioned high partitions between the
pews were an eyesore to modern taste. Roger

admitted this, but he loved the old church,
with the many associations that made it dear
to him ; and in going over plans and considering
ways and means, it was not seldom that he
stifled a sigh of regret for the changes that
were to be made in its familiar aspect. But
this also brought him fresh occupation, and
was welcome on that account.

And so the weeks went on, until the day
drew near when he was to reach the acme of his
trial, and must fulfil his promise to Kate to be
present at her marriage.

FATA MORGANA

Two Other people beside Mrs. Stephens
decidedly disapproved of Kate's engagement,
and one of these was Barbara Ferrars.

The evening after Kate saw Roger North,
she and Mr. Beaumont dined with the Ferrars.
It was to be her formal reception as a daughter
of the family. All were delighted at the
engagement, and all vied with each other in
making much of the young fiancee, Mrs.
Ferrars was almost overwhelming in the affection
that she showed ; and had constantly to
bring her lace-edged handkerchief into requisition
during the evening.

It fell to Mr. Beaumont to sit next to his
hostess at dinner, and she could not allow such
an opportunity to pass without blending a
little delicate flattery of his family with the
more usual and general eulogium of her own.

*' My dear Mr. Beaumont," she said, *' I
cannot tell you what I have gone through
these few past days ; you really must excuse
me if I appear a little upset  but a mother's
feelings on such an important occasion as that
of a son choosing a wife cannot easily be
controlled. I have reason more than most
mothers have to think much of hall my boys."

Mr. Beaumont bowed politely.

*' One does not like to praise one's own
children," she continued, " but my dear
Sydney is so far above the average, and I am
sure that you will like to know that your niece
will find him to be one in a thousand. Such a
charming, attentive son he has always been !
I do not know to whom I could have given him
up, except to our dear Kate, without many a
pang of jealousy."

** One has only to be admitted into the
magic circle to acknowledge the charm of all
your family," remarked Mr. Beaumont.

** Yes, indeed," replied Mrs. Ferrars. ''I
often think I am especially blessed ; but with
a father like Mr. Ferrars, it is not to be
wondered that my children show signs of
superiority ! ' '

*' Allow me also to add, ' and with a motherlike
Mrs. Ferrars,' " said the gentleman. This,
and other conversation that passed during
dinner, left Mrs. Ferrars well pleased with herself,
Mr. Beaumont, and the world in general.

When the ladies re-entered the drawing-room,
Kate looked round for Barbara, but she
was not there. Kate had not seen her since
her engagement had become an acknowledged
fact, although perhaps she thought more of her
than of any other member of the family except
Sydney himself.

* Where is Barbara ? " she asked of Mabel.

Upstairs in the school-room, I suppose.
She has been in one of her bad tempers the
last few days. I cannot make it out, for I
thought you had completely cured her."

I will go and see her," said Kate.

"Very well," replied Mabel; and the girls
went upstairs together ; but before reaching the
school-room, Kate said hesitatingly, '' If Barbara
is put out, don't you think that I had
better see her alone, Mabel dear ?"

"Perhaps you had. I don't suppose she
will be cross to you." So Kate entered the
room alone.

There was no light save that from the fire,
which was burning rather dully, dimly showing
the outline of Barbara's figure reposing on a
low seat. She did not stir or look round
when the door opened.

"- Barbara dear," said Kate's soft voice,
*' why did you not come down to see me ? "

No answer.

Kate drew near, knelt down by the low
chair, put her arms around Barbara's neck,
and kissed her affectionately.

** Barbara," she said, *' are you not glad
that I am going to be your sister?" Still
there was no answer, no response to the gentle
caress.

** What is the matter? Have I vexed you ?
I thought you loved me, and would be glad."

Barbara spoke at last.

'*No, I am not glad! "

'not glad!" said Kate, quite startled.
*' Why not, Barbara? It is not kind of you,"
she added, the tears coming into her eyes ;
"when I have thought much of having you
for a sister."

** Go away!" cried Barbara passionately,
and pushing Kate aside. " Go away  I never

asked you to come  I don't want to see you 
I don't want to speak to you ! "

Kate paused, almost frightened at the girl's
vehemence. Then, with a sudden revulsion
of feeling, Barbara threw herself on Kate's
neck, exclaiming, 

'* Oh ! don't marry him  please don't marry
him ! promise me that you will not ! "

*' How can I promise you?" said Kate,
half laughing and half crying. " How can I,
when I have promised him that I will ? but tell
me why, and what you mean."

*'No, no!  I cannot, I must not," cried
Barbara ; ' but you are too good for him  you
must not marry him ; it is a wicked, wicked
plot ! " And she burst into a storm of tears.

By this time Kate was trembling in every
limb, and as agitated as Barbara herself.

' Don't cry, Barbara; do try and compose
yourself, and tell me what you mean ! "

** No, no !  I cannot, I must not, but don't
marry Sydney!" was all that could be extracted
from the excited girl.

Kate began to think it was one of the wild
bursts of passion of which she had heard the
others speak, but had never before witnessed,



and soothed and petted Barbara until she
became quieter.

*' Tell me, dear," she said, with the girl's
hot wet cheek against her own, " why are you
so distressed that I should marry Sydney? "

*' I don't want you to," was the murmured
answer; 'you are too good for him."

And nothing more could Kate gather, and
at last she had to go away, perplexed and
wondering. Mabel was waiting on the staircase.


*why, Kate, I thought you were enough
of a siren to charm Barbara to come downstairs."


** She was not fit to come," answered Kate,
rather sadly. " Mabel, is she often like this?"

She used to be very often, before you
came ; but I am surprised that she showed her
temper to you. Never mind her, she will
come round in a day or two. I daresay it is
nothing but a fit of jealousy, because you* care
for Sydney," and Mabel gave a little saucy
laugh.

However, Kate could not forget so easily.
The incident left behind it a painful feeling of
depression and vague alarm.

They always had music in the evening, and
Julia was singing to the accompaniment of the
harp when the girls returned to the drawing-room.
The men were already there, and
Sydney instantly sought Kate's side. He
observed at once the shadow of some trouble
on her face.

'what is the matter? what has gone
wrong ? " he whispered, bending over her.

Had they been alone Kate would have told
him all ; but then and there it was impossible
to do so. Then, the charm of his presence
influencing her once more, his words and
looks of love moving her heart to respond,
all vague impressions of something wrong
were dispelled, and her trustful nature reposed
its fullest confidence in his sincerity and worth.
So all memory of Barbara's wild words faded
from her mind, only to be recalled, and vividly
remembered, in the days that were to come.

Barbara made no further sign, beyond that
she could not be induced to express any
pleasure at the marriage, and clung to Kate
with even greater affection than before.

A tacit understanding existed, no one exactly
knew why, that the young couple were not to

remain long away from England ; and everyone
agreed to make light of their departure for
their distant home. This suited Mr. Beaumont
exactly, as he hated anything which
necessitated a show of strong feeling, and he
always talked to Kate as if she would be back
among them in a year or two at the furthest.
All that Sydney said on the subject tended to
sustain this view. It was strictly in accordance
with his wishes, therefore no doubt he
sincerely believed that it would be so ; and a
general impression remained that a very short
time would enable him to sell his property,
and return to settle at home in comfortable
circumstances. Julia was the only person not
blinded by the glamour thus thrown over the
affair, and she alone possessed better means
of judging the true position. But she saw
that Sydney was really in love with Kate, and
hoped that this affection might prove sufficiently
deep and lasting* to influence his future
life ; and though she knew well that his
property was too much involved to allow of
a return to England with flying colours in so
short a time, yet she hoped that a new-born
prudence might retrieve the errors of the past,

ROGER NORTH.

and lead to brighter results in the future.
Once or twice she ventured to talk to him in
this strain, and was gladdened to find that,
although as usual dangerously over-sanguine,
he was full of good resolutions.

When the date of the marriage was once
fixed, there was plenty to be done in the way
of preparation ; and Kate found her time so
fully occupied that she had little leisure even
for regrets at the thought of leaving home,
and people, and places which she loved. Mr.
Beaumont was a liberal man, and commissioned
Mrs. Ferrars to superintend the purchase
of his niece's trousseau ; so Kate was
carried from shop to shop, and spent hours
under the hands of her dressmaker, until it
seemed that she would have more clothes than
she could possibly wear out.

The other person who disapproved of Kate's
marriage was Lord Evered. He had left town
before Christmas ; but Easter, which fell very
early this year, brought him back. Previously
to his return, he heard from Mr. Beaumont of
Kate's engagement, and a few days later he
wrote to congratulate her on the event. She
had looked forward to receiving a letter from

Lord Evered; but when it came its perusal
was followed by a keen sense of disappointment.
It touched merely on the surface of
things, and left her as little satisfied as a
similar letter that she had received from her
old friend Mrs. stephens.

Lord Evered had not written even as he
did without much perturbation of mind. He
was astonished to find the deep interest that
he felt in this young girl's future, and chafed
that he possessed no right to interfere in a
matter that so vitally affected her happiness.
But he had no right  the mischief, if mischief
it were, was done. The time had passed
for raising a warning voice. " Still he deeply
regretted not having been at hand when a
word dropped in season might have turned
the current of events.

On his arrival in town he was further disturbed
to find such an early date fixed for the
wedding. It made it a certainty; and loth
though he was to interfere in anything which
did not concern him, he could not resist speaking
on the subject to Mr. Beaumont the first
time they were alone together. This was one
day after dinner at Portland Place.

VOL. II. 3

** Beaumont' he said, rather abruptly, ''do
you altogether like this marriage for your
niece? "

** Of course I do. Why not?" asked the
other, in surprise.

Lord Evered was not prepared to divulge
all that he inwardly felt, so he fenced.

** Surely it is not a brilliant prospect for her
to go to a wild country like south America 
she might have made a better match."

Mr. Beaumont laughed.

Well, Evered, it is a new thing for a Don
Quixote like you to enunciate such worldly
sentiments. I expected you to be delighted
with the Arcadian romance of the whole
thing, and to look upon them as another
Paul and Virginia."

" She is so young," continued Lord Evered,
not heeding the remark ; '* hardly old enough
to know her own mind, and to be married so
quickly too. I almost wonder that you did
not insist on a longer engagement."

swell," admitted Mr. Beaumont, *'I did
preach prudence at first. But would you
have had me enact the part of a stern uncle,
and insist on their being separated for an

indefinite period, while he went to South
America, as go he must?"

Lord Evered rose from the table.

** It seems a great risk of her happiness,
unless you can repose most thorough confidence
in the man."

** Well, why should I not?" asked Mr.
Beaumont. '' And about one thing I have
no doubt  he is most thoroughly in love
with her."

 ' That is well so far as it goes, but ' ' Lord

Evered paused suddenly, and checked himself
from uttering words of doubt on Sydney's
stability of character  such as Mrs. Stephens
freely indulged in  based on mere guess work.

** I cannot make out what you are driving
at, Evered," said Mr. Beaumont, somewhat
annoyed. '' Ferrars is a good fellow ; I
have not heard a word breathed against his
character, and his family are unexceptionable
in every way Kate's equals both as to birth
and breeding."

*eyes," said Lord Evered, musingly, ' I
daresay you may be right. I know very little
of them, but have met Mrs. Ferrars once or
twice. And that is one of the very points.

I am a great believer in the influence of a
mother, and she did not impress me as one
who would do much for her sons." He gave
a little shiver, and then added, ** I cannot
stand a woman who talks ' whisperingly '  it
puts my teeth on edge."

Mr. Beaumont shrugged his shoulders.

*' I must admit that she is somewhat of a
fool," he said. ** Still there is no harm in
the woman, and she is certainly a devoted
mother ; while Ferrars himself is a clever,
sensible man."

** I have no right to make these remarks,
Beaumont. I am afraid you will think me
meddlesome ; but I wanted to ascertain if you
were thoroughly satisfied, and I see now that
you are. I have taken such a fancy to your
niece that perhaps there is a little selfishness
in my regret at her engagement. One more
question  you must excuse my impertinence,
on the score of the interest that I take in her
I hope that you have tied up her property
securely? "

*you need not fear about that," replied
Mr. Beaumont. ** Her father took care of the
property he left ; the interest is secured to her

for life, and not a penny of the capital can
be touched."

** I am glad to hear it, but she inherits
something from her mother, does she not?"

*' Yester thousand pounds. I have agreed
to let Ferrars have the handling of that ; it
will bring in better interest if thrown into the
esta7tpa than in any other way."

** It is no business of mine," said Lord
Evered, " but I cannot help feeling sorry that
her mother's property should not also be
settled upon herself."

*' She will be well enough off as far as
money goes," said Mr. Beaumont, carelessly.
*' I shall never marry, and all I have will be
divided between her and my other sister's
child  Beaumont Sumner. You are as suspicious
as I saw North was inclined to be;
only he is a younger man, and did not like to
say so much. However, jacta est a lea, and I
cannot withdraw my consent now even if I
thought it desirable."

No, I suppose not," admitted Lord Evered.
** All that remains is to hope that the marriage
may prove a happy one."

** If you were a younger man, Evered," said

Mr. Beaumont, with a smile, " I should be
inclined to think you were jealous of this
handsome young fellow."

*' Sat pulcha si sat bona'' said Lord Evered,
beneath his breath; and then they joined Kate
in the drawing-room.

Thus another voice of warning was raised
in vain. A few days later, Kate heard from
Mrs. Stephens that she and her husband had
been summoned to Yorkshire. It was a great
disappointment, but she still hoped they
might be present at her wedding, until news
came of the death of Major Stephens' brother.
To take the place of Mrs. Stephens, Mr.
Beaumont invited his nephew, Beaumont
Sumner, with his wife, to stay at the house.
Kate knew very little of her cousin, and had
never seen his wife before. The companionship
of one whom she loved would have been
a real pleasure at this time; but it was irksome
rather than otherwise to be thrown with a
complete stranger, although a relation by
marriage.

Her old nurse was the only person to whom
she could open her heart ; and the eve of her
wedding-day found her sitting on the floor by

Mrs. Vale, her head resting against the knee
where it had rested many a time before when
seeking comfort in her childish troubles.

** Mamsie, Mamsie ! I can't bear leaving
you," she said, crying a little. ** I wish we
could remain together always."

The hand which stroked the girl's hair
trembled; and the voice which answered was
unsteady.

*' 'Tis the way of the world, my child; the
young birds leave the parent nest, and make a
home for themselves. You would have had to
leave your father and mother when the time
came, had they been alive."

Kate raised her face with an expression of
passionate earnestness.

* I could never have left father ! Oh, Mamsie
! I have never missed him more than I do
now."

' Yes, dearie, yes, I daresay. But you must
think of Mr. Ferrars. What would he say
if he saw you making such a fuss over leaving
your old nurse ? ' '

** I don't know, I can't help it," said Kate;
and she laid down her head once more on the
kind knee.

There was a pause before she spoke again.

** I shall not be able to go to Belton, as we are
leaving England so soon  that is the worst of
it. I wanted very much to go there, if it were
only to see my dear father's grave. But it
is impossible with Mrs. Stephens away, and
everything happening to prevent it. Mamsie,
promise me that you will go as soon as you
can ; and write and tell me all about it ? "

** Yes, dearie, I promise you I will."

** How many changes you will find ! " continued
Kate ; ** strangers in the dear old
rectory, and perhaps in a little while there
will be changes too at the Hall, for Roger
will be married. I wished to talk to him
about that when he was here. It was strange
that I never found a chance. I thought he
would perhaps come to-day ; but he has not
been, and I daresay I shall not be able to
speak to him tomorrow."

** To-morrow ! no, I should think not," said
the old nurse, smiling amid her tears; *you
will have something else to think about."

There was another pause before Kate spoke
again.

*' Mamsie, you will come and live with me,

won't you, when we return to England ? We
shall not be long away  Mr. Ferrars says so
a year or two at most. Promise me that
you will come and live with me? "

** Well, well, we will see; but I don't know
what you will want with an old woman like
me!"

And then they cried silently together a
little longer.

** For," said good Mrs. Vale, *' we must finish
with the tears to-night ; there must be none
tomorrow, dearie, to dim your wedding-day,"


WEDDING BELLS.

It was one of the loveliest of spring mornings,
verging on the season when London looks its
brightest and its gayest. Already the trees
in park and square had donned their mantle
of tender green, unsullied yet by smoke and
dust ; lilacs and laburnums were hastening
into bloom ; houses that had been shut up
during the winter months were freshly painted,
and the exterior of many had become a very
conservatory of flowers. The resorts of fashion
were crowded at well-known hours with brilliant
equipages and fair women, presenting a sight
which cannot be surpassed by another city of
the world.

On such a morn, at such a season, Roger
North awoke in a London hotel to the consciousness



that it was the wedding-day of
Kate Galbraith. Resolutely and manfully he
had prepared to endure the pain which the
day must bring ; but when the hour came he
would joyfully have accepted the alternative of
any amount of physical suffering.

He had arrived in town the day before,
and had intended to call upon Kate at her
uncle's house; but he feared the chance of
seeing her alone, and this influenced him at
the last to stay away. However, he saw Mr.
Beaumont during the afternoon, and in accordance
with a promise then made, that he
would call to take Mr. and Mrs. Beaumont
Sumner in his carriage to the church, he drove
this morning to the house in Portland Place.
There was no fear of seeing the bride at that
hour ; and for the rest it mattered little
to him where he was, for go where he would
his pain went with him.

The usual signs of such an occasion marked
the house ; a carpet had been laid down,
an awning erected, and a crowd of lookers-on
were already assembled. Roger saw all this
with that clearness of vision frequently given
to a mind strung up to the highest point of

mental tension. Almost without being aware
that he noticed anything at the time, he could
afterwards recall the minutest detail. He was
shown into the drawing-room, where he found
Mr. Beaumont and his nephew, and he took
part in the few commonplaces which passed
between them on the event of the day. Then
Mrs. Beaumont Sumner made her appearance,
fresh from a last look at the bride, and full
of excitement and talk incident therefrom.
The time to start had come, and Roger gave
his arm to Mrs. Sumner, and led her to the
carriage. How thankful he felt that she was
a stranger, and that her talkative humour
made monosyllabic answers all that were
needed. He listened and answered like one
in a dream, during the short space of time
which elapsed before they reached the church.
There, inside and out, thronged a crowd of
spectators. The Ferrars were people who had
a large circle of acquaintances. Sydney was
a favourite in society, and many besides the
invited guests were lookers-on. In one way
this was a relief to Roger, for Mrs. Sumner
found friends to speak to, and left him to his
own reflections.

His life-long habit of self-control aiding his
naturally strong nature alone enabled Roger
to remain outwardly composed. There were
few among the crowd to whom he was personally
known ; and if any remarked upon his
appearance it was merely to say, ** What a
stern-looking man that Mr. North is," and
nothing more.

At last there was a hum of excitement,
caused by the arrival of the bridesmaids.
Then Roger kept his eyes heed upon the
ground, for he knew too well who would becoming
soon.

Yes ! a fresh stir and rustle in the church ;
and the organ rolled forth its rich tones as
the bride entered, leaning on her uncle's arm.
How long they seemed to be in moving up
the nave ! As they drew near, impelled by
an irresistible impulse Roger raised his eyes,
and took one look. But it was enough to
impress the sight for ever on his memory, to
come before him when he would willingly have
driven it away. She was very white  white
almost as her bridal draperies ; her eyes were
shaded by their drooping lids, and she
trembled so visibly that, save for the support

of her uncle's arm, she could scarce have
walked even at that slow pace.

Then Roger looked no more, but tried to
concentrate his thoughts on a prayer that
she, at least, might be happy.

All was over. Sydney Wyndham and Alice
Katharine were man and wife. Relations and
friends pressed round to offer their congratulations
; the bells rang out a joyous peal, and
the organ poured forth the strains of the
'' Wedding March'' There were many murmurs
of admiration as the tall and graceful pair
passed down the church. Kate's colour had
returned, and she looked more like herself  a
sweet and winning bride to gaze upon. And
the good looks of the bridegroom attracted
notice from the crowd, who usually have no
eyes save for the bride.

Some confusion and mismanagement ensued
about the carriages; Roger was one of the
last to leave the church, and when he arrived
at the house Kate had already gone to change
her dress. For, at her particular desire, it
had been arranged that she and her husband
were not to remain for the wedding breakfast.

The drawing-room was crowded, and Roger

would gladly have hidden himself in some
retired corner ; but Mr. Beaumont took the
opportunity to introduce him to various
members of the Ferrars family as an old
friend of Kate. Among others he was introduced
to Mabel, who looked very pretty and
charming in her bridesmaid's dress. After a
few words he would have passed on, but it
happened that Mabel had taken a fancy to
him that time she saw him walking with Mr.
Beaumont several months before, and was determined
to profit by the opportunity, so that
it was impossible for him to escape without an
absolute rudeness. She chattered on, claiming
his attention about first one thing and then
another regarding Kate and the wedding.
However, finding that her advances did not
meet with the response she hoped for, she
became somewhat piqued.

'' Ah ! Mr. North," she said, at length, " it
is quite easy to see the effect that a wedding
has upon you just now ; and perhaps some of
us can guess the reason why''

The blood rushed to Roger's cheek. Was
it possible that she or any one else could
guess his real feelings? But no, on second

thoughts her words could not have that
meaning ; though it remained a mystery to
him what they did imply.

He was released at this moment from further
torture ; for Mabel was summoned upstairs to
a private leave taking with Kate, and he took
advantage of the opportunity to move into the
balcony, which he noticed to be unoccupied.
It had been partly covered in, and made pretty
for the occasion with plants. He longed for
fresh air, and at least it was fresher there than
in the crowded room. He leaned against the
window-frame, his mind occupied with one
intense desire to get away; but he knew it
would be impossible to do so until the breakfast
was over, at least without attracting
notice, and that, of all things, he wished to
avoid.

Presently he started at the sound of a voice
close to his elbow. It was a shrill, high-pitched
voice, like neither that of child nor
woman.

*you are Mr. North, are you not'* it said.

He looked round, and saw that the voice
came from a strange and pathetic little figure,
whose slight deformity was concealed as much

as possible by a skilfully arranged dress of
dark velvet; while the sallow, sharp-featured
face bore unmistakable marks of suffering.

Roger's strength of frame and simple-heartiness
always seemed to make him tender
to anything that was small, and weak, and
suffering ; and the tone in which he answered
reflected this feeling.

** You are right  I am Mr. North, but I do
not know your name."

** I am Barbara Ferrars."

** Indeed?"

Then there was a pause before Barbara
continued, 

** I have wished to knov you for a longtime,
and seeing you here alone I thought I
would come and speak to you. I have heard
a great deal about you from Kate. You area
very old friend of hers, are you not?"

Yes."

** I knew that without your telling me; and
too am one of her great friends."

Roger could picture to himself how Kate
had been drawn to hold out the hand of friendship
to this little suffering girl.

*' I am very sorry she is going away,"

VOL. II. 4

continued Barbara  *' I shall miss her dreadfully.
Don't you think all this fuss at a
wedding is great rubbish ? " she added, confidentially,
and waving her hand towards the
gay crowd in the room behind.

* I am hardly prepared to say," answered
Roger, amused by her manner in spite of
himself. ' I suppose it is the usual thing."

*' Oh ! I forgot," exclaimed Barbara, quickly.
*' I ought not to have said so to you ; for I
suppose you will soon have a grand wedding
yourself."

*' What do you mean?" said Roger,
amazed. ** I am not going to be married."

Barbara looked at him keenly.

*' It's no use your pretending to me  I know
better  I know you are going to marry that
beautiful cousin of yours. Miss Erskine."

*who told you so?" asked Roger, almost
fiercely.

** Why, Kate did, of course."

Kate told you that I was going to marry
Constance Erskine," repeated Roger, slowly.
*' Are you sure of what you are saying ? "

** Quite sure"  with decision  'she said
she did not believe it at first; but then she

heard it from so many people that she knew
it must be true."

Roger's very lips turned white, and a
terrible thought assailed him. Was it possible
that she might never have consented to
become the wife of Sydney Ferrars had she
not believed this ? The thought was maddening
 so maddening that he put it away with
a resolute determination.

' Do you know who it was that told her? "

*'N  no, I don't think I do  I forget; but
I know she was quite, quite sure," and Barbara
nodded her head triumphantly.

Roger's brain was in a whirl, and he was
glad when something within the room attracted
Barbara's attention, and she moved away.
He needed a few moments of solitude to
restore his composure. What did this mean ?
How could such a report have arisen ? And
why had Kate of all people believed it ? He
felt he must tell her at once  write to her, if
he had no opportunity of speaking, and let
her know it was utterly untrue. But no, what
was the use of that ? What did it matter
now ? And in time she would know, Hke the
rest of the world, that he would never marry.

 Dunois

Even during these few minutes he revolved
in his mind all possible sources from which
the report could have originated, but as little
suspected his mother of having had any share
in it as he suspected himself. Perhaps in
these early days of his trial it was as well
that he did not. Had he done so, it might
have caused an embittered feeling against her
which it would have been hard to overcome.

He felt annoyed also on his cousin's account.
The family were in town ; and he trusted the
gossip had not spread widely enough to reach
their ears. His mind was still occupied with
this when he turned to find that Kate was
in the room, bidding her friends good-bye.

She was dressed in soft grey ; for she could
not be persuaded to wear brighter colours
within the year of her father's death  even
on her wedding-day. Her face was flushed ;
and truly she looked a fair young bride, of
whom any husband might well be proud.
Roger stepped back into the room  he could
not miss the last farewell, and his eyes
followed her, passing from one to the other.
At last she came to him.

*' Good-bye, Roger," she said, holding out

her hand. *' I am so sorry that I did not see
you yesterday. There were so many things
I wanted to ask you about Belton. You will
take care of my poor old Rover for me,
won't you ? "

*' Indeed I will."

** We shall be in London before we sail 
perhaps I may see you then*'

' Yes," said Roger.

But in his heart he did not mean that she
should. It was best for him, at least, that
years should elapse before they met again.
Perhaps at some distant future a renewal of
something like their old intercourse might
be possible  a reflection of the calm, happy
times when he was the kind elder brother, and
she the engaging, warm-hearted child. But
that could not be  yet.

She must go now  Sydney was waiting for
her.

** Good-bye, Kate  Heaven bless you!"
Roger murmured.

And then she placed her hand upon her
husband's arm, and he led her down the staircase;
and they passed out into the world to
begin their new life together.

It was nearly two hours before Roger
managed to leave the house. The Ferrars
were giving a dance in the evening in honour
of the marriage, and Roger was invited ; but
he excused himself on the plea that he was
starting for the Continent by the night boat.
He did leave England that night ; but it was a
fortnight before he appeared at Cannes, in
fulfilment of the promise made to his mother
that he would be there in time to escort her
home. No one ever knew where he had spent
the interval.

And the bells of Belton rang merrily that
day to celebrate Kate's marriage. They rang
all the merry changes  dropping, and running,
and tripping over one another, until it sounded
as if they were intoxicated with joy. And
the villagers stayed their work to listen,
and shower many a blessing upon Kate's
head.

'bless her!" they said, *' with her sweet
face and her winning ways, she deserves a
good husband. And he was a fine-looking
gentleman too," added those who had observed
him during his visit in the summer.
Maybe he will make a fortin in them furrin

parts, and bring her back to live near her
old home again."

Oh, merry bells ! Are you always true
prophets ? Are the marriages you celebrate
always as bright and glad as you would seem
to tell ? And if they are not, where lies the
fault?

A LETTER FROM THE ESTAXIA MERCEDES.

One day, towards the end of May, Mr. Beaumont
came down to breakfast in particularly
good spirits. He had returned the previous
evening from Southampton, where he had
seen the last of his niece and her husband,
and had watched the good steamer down
Southampton Water, bearing them away to
their distant home. The newly-married pair
had spent their last week in England at his
house  Kate bright and happy, and Sydney
the most attentive and lover-like of husbands.
Lord Evered had dined at the house one
night, when Mr. Beaumont secretly felt a little
triumphant that his friend should see how
couleur de rose everything appeared.

This morning Mr. Beaumont seated himself
at the table with a feeling of great complacency.

His niece was happily married to
the husband of her choice; and he was once
more perfectly free to come and go as the
mood might take him.

** Benson'* he said, to the portly and somewhat
dignified butler, 'were there any letters
for me yesterday? "

*eyes, sir, I placed them on the library
table."

** Very well, bring them here."

In a few minutes Benson returned with a
pile of letters on a silver salver, which he
laid beside his master.

Mr. Beaumont turned them over carelessly.

** I have all that I want, Benson  you need
not wait."

When Mr. Beaumont had nearly finished
his breakfast, and was sipping his last cup
of coffee, he opened first one and then another
letter, until he arrived at one which bore the
appearance of having come from beyond the
seas. He knew the handwriting well enough ;
it was that of George Ramsay, who had
written to him more than once since Mr.
Galbraith's death on matters of business regarding
his wife's property. Mr. Beaumont

supposed this letter contained something of
the same kind ; he opened it, and commenced
reading it with no very lively interest; but
almost its first words riveted his attention.
His forehead contracted to a frown, and he
read rapidly through to the end. Then he
turned to the beginning, and perused it slowly
a second time with an increased expression
of consternation. And this is what he read :  

ESTAN91A Mercedes,
Santa Rosa,
 April 12th.

*' My dear Mr. Beaumont,  I take up my
pen to write to you on a delicate matter; and
as I am usually somewhat of a blunderer in
expressing my meaning, I hope that you will
clearly understand that I am actuated by no
love of mischief-making ; and nothing but a
strong sense of duty to my young sister-inlaw
as her nearest male relative after yourself 
could induce me to enter on a task which is
exceedingly distasteful. I acknowledge also
that it is not only unpleasant to myself, but
the communication may place you in a very
disagreeable position. Still it must be done,
and I will try to express myself as clearly and

concisely as possible. The mail, a few days ago,
brought a letter to my wife from her sister,
telling us that she was engaged to Sydney
Ferrars. We were greatly surprised, as we
had heard nothing beforehand to prepare
us for the news. Naturally my wife was
pleased  she likes Sydney, and the prospect
of her sister coming here delighted her. I, on
the contrary, could not help feeling some
uneasiness, for I know more of Sydney and
his affairs than I have ever told my wife ; and
though it goes against the grain to speak in
such terms of my own relation, the long and
short of it is that he is not a man to whom I
should care to trust the happiness of any girl.
The last few days I have gone through a great
deal of mental worry. I did not like to speak
openly to my wife, because the letter hints
at the marriage taking place very shortly ;
and if by any misfortune this letter arrives too
late, the only thing will be to make the best
of a bad business ; and it is no use for Mary
to be made unhappy about her sister's future
without necessity. I have made some inquiries
into my cousin's affairs, and the result puts
it beyond a doubt that it is plainly my duty to

Stop the marriage if I can. To begin with, I
have ascertained that he is in serious difficulties.
When he first came to these parts he
bought a half share in an esfaiKia with a first-rate
fellow who thoroughly understood the
business, and all went well. But this man,
Brandon, sold out two years ago ; and a fellow
named Lisle bought up his share. Lisle is no
good at all  drinks, and neglects the estania,
which has been going to the dogs as rapidly
as may be. From what I hear there are debts
in all directions ; and ten to one the creditors
will have seized the property before Sydney
makes his appearance. But this is not the
worst ; for so far he might have been more
unfortunate than culpable. But soon after he
first arrived in the country, a man named
Thorpe got hold of him, and has, I fear,
exercised a very bad influence on my unfortunate
cousin. This Thorpe I can call
nothing more nor less than a thorough blackguard.
He is a gentleman by birth and
education, but for my own part I would
sooner associate with an honest ploughboy. I
once spoke to Sydney on the subject of this
intimacy, but got no thanks and did no good ;

and afterwards I found it pleasant to know
as little as possible of their goings on, for they
only made me angry. Now it is a different
matter ; and on inquiry, my suspicions were
confirmed that Sydney had been led to gamble
under Thorpe's influence, and no doubt some
of the difficulties on the estania are caused by
a drain from gambling debts. I fear also that
under temptation he is not so steady in his
habits as one could wish, but on this point I
cannot speak with certainty ; and to my mind
the gambling  of which I am sure  is quite
sufficient. Personally, I should be relieved to
hear that the engagement is altogether broken
off; but at least I hope that if there is yet
time you will satisfy yourself of the truth of
my statements, and put Sydney to some test.
I honestly believe him to be weak rather than
deliberately bad, and a strong attachment
might be the means of reclaiming him. The
one thing which sticks in my throat is that
he should have engaged himself to any girl
without making a clean breast of the state of
his affairs to her natural guardian; and this
he cannot have done. Even if he means
reform, his reticence on this point is not a

Straightforward beginning. I know this letter

will cause you endless annoyance ; and even

now I am of two minds whether to post it or

not. I must trust implicitly to you to receive

the communication in the spirit in which it is

given, and to make the best use of it that you

can. I imagine that my uncle and his family

know as little of the real state of Sydney's

affairs as you do, or they would have made it

their business  painful as it might be  to

inform you. I hope that I have said enough

to convince you that delay at any cost is

desirable, and can say no more except that I

am very sorry it has fallen to my lot to stir

the mud.

'* Believe me,

** Yours sincerely,

*' George Ramsay.

*'P.S.  Of course I must trust to you to
use this information in a manner that will
spare the feelings of my uncle and his family
as much as possible."

Poor Mr. Beaumont ! here was indeed a
terrible shock to the peace and quiet which
he loved so well. Too late  a month too

late  to do any good ! And then, perhaps,
there was just a little feeling of relief that
the letter had not arrived, say the day before
the wedding ; for what a terrible disturbance
and scandal it would have caused ! But be
that as it might, Mr. Beaumont was seriously
troubled. He walked up and down his room
in a manner totally at variance with his usual
mien ; and spoke to the servant, who came to
remove the breakfast things, so sharply that
the man could not imagine what had happened
to a master who was habitually courteous.

What was to be done ? What steps could
now be taken to guard Kate's future ? The
tone of George Ramsay's letter left no ground
for hope that he was in any way exaggerating
the truth, and Mr. Beaumont's only relief was
to feel furiously angry with Sydney and the
whole Ferrars family. With whom could he
consult ? To whom could he speak on this
delicate matter? To Lord Evered? He
certainly took a most remarkable interest in
Kate ; but Mr. Beaumont remembered their
conversation about Sydney Ferrars, and
thought that he would prefer some other
confidant.

A servant came to ask at what hour his
master wanted the carriage.

* Not at all this morning," replied Mr.
Beaumont, sharply ; *' I shall walk to the
club."

And walk he did  hoping that the exercise
would help to clear his thoughts or enable him
to banish the subject altogether. But he was
so abstracted that he trod St. James's Street
returning the salutations of numerous friends,
but stopping to speak to none.

From St. James's Street he turned into Pall
Mall still deep in thought, until, jostling
against another man going in the opposite
direction, he raised his hat to apologize.

** I beg your pardon, sir Why, North, is

it you ? " he exclaimed. '' Of all men in the
world you are the one I am most pleased to
meet  I have something on my mind about
which I should like to speak to you. Can you
dine with me to-night ? "

*' I am afraid not," answered Roger. *' My
mother and I arrived from Paris last night.
We are to dine at the Erskine', and go home

tomorrow."

Mr. Beaumont looked vexed.

*' How very unfortunate ! But stop a minute :
can you spare me half-an-hour at my club
now? "

*' By all means," answered Roger, wondering
what was coming.

Mr. Beaumont's club was close by, and it
vas not long before they were alone ; and then
he began : 

*' It is a most unpleasant business. North ;
and, except that you are my co-trustee, one
that I should hardly like to mention even to
you."

Roger started  it must be something that
concerned Kate.

' They only sailed yesterday, as I daresay'
you know, but had they not it would make
matters no better. In fact," continued Mr.
Beaumont, with some irritation, " unless the
letter had arrived before the marriage took
place, it had almost as well not have been
written at all."

*' What letter? From whom?" asked
Roger, with breathless interest.

*' Why, from George Ramsay  he meant
well no doubt. Here, you can read it for
yourself, and judge if I have not reason

VOL. II. 5

to be disturbed. I have not the patience to
explain all, and it explains itself."

Mr. Beaumont produced the letter ; but
withheld it a moment to say, 

** Of course I show it to you in the strictest
confidence."

* Of course."

Then Mr. Beaumont paced restlessly up
and down the room Perhaps it was as well
that he was too much occupied with his own
feelings to watch his companion narrowly ; for
Roger, while reading, could not control the
strong emotions which swept across his inmost
self and showed upon his face.

When Mr. Beaumont perceived that Roger
had finished he stopped abruptly, and
asked, 

*' Well, what do you think about it ? "

The question was a hard one to answer
calmly. What did he not think about it ?
He who would have laid down his life, if by so
doing he could have secured Kate's happiness.
And that this man  her husband  should
prove already so unworthy ; should have
stooped to deceit* even to win his bride : what
could he think about it ? All his fortitude, all

his manhood must be summoned before trusting
himself to give a definite reply.

*' I  I don't know what to think about it."

'* It's infamous  it's disgraceful! " said Mr.
Beaumont, working himself into a state of
excitement. ' I tell you, North, I have half a
mind to follow them by the next steamer, and
bring Kate home again."

'you can't do that, Mr. Beaumont  you
have no right to separate them  she is his
wife  now ! "

And Roger North clenched his hand until
the nails dug deeply into his flesh.

'' True  true ; but I never was so deceived
in any man before. I should as soon have
thought of distrusting you, North, as I should
of distrusting him."

"' Ramsay seems to hold out a hope that a
strong affection might turn him to better
things," said Roger, with an effort.

* But that does not do away with the fact
that he is a bankrupt, or next door to one,"
remarked Mr. Beaumont, wrathfully. *' And
my poor sister's fortune is unreservedly in his
hands."

' Yes, that is a pity," said Roger.

But he was thinking far more of what Kate
would suffer through her affections than of
any loss of money. The terrible part seemed
to him, that the more deeply she loved the
more her heart would be wrung and lacerated
if ever she came to know all the circumstances
as they knew them ; and how could she fail to
learn something of the truth ? Roger writhed
in an agony of torture for her sake ; and not
his least agony was to know himself utterly
powerless to help  utterly unable to lighten
her burden of sorrow by one iota. It was a
fearful trial of his faith in an all merciful
Providence. But his rebellious thoughts were
crushed as he reminded himself of a Power
mighty to succour the weak, and console the
sorrowful, even in their sorest trials.

There was a pause, whilst each was wrapt in
his own painful reflections.

Then Mr. Beaumont said,  

*' North, I shall have to see Ferrars about
this."

*' Yes, I do not see how that can be avoided ;
but I fear he can do nothing."

*' I daresay not," replied Mr. Beaumont;
*' but it is only fair that he should know

what a scamp his son is. I wonder if he has
any inkling of the state of affairs."

'surely not!" exclaimed Roger. 'you
see Ramsay thinks not."

** Ramsay ought to have let him know before,"
said Mr. Beaumont, somewhat unreasonably.

** It was hardly his business to interfere,"
said Roger sadly.

' Well ! can you suggest nothing that we
can do for Kate ? "

"- That is the worst of it, Mr. Beaumont.
At present it seems impossible to do anything
save perhaps to write to Ramsay and ask
him to watch over her ; and that I think he
will do any way."

'would you write to Sydney himself?"
asked Mr. Beaumont.

I hardly know, but I think not  it might
do more harm than good. Surely," Roger
added, with some vehemence, " her influence
must have some effect upon him ; he cannot
be so bad as to wreck her happiness for the
sake of self-indulgence."

It would be a satisfaction to let him know
what I think of his conduct ! " exclaimed Mr.
Beaumont.

* But a poor one," said Roger. " The
more I think of it the more certain I am that
for her sake it will be best to stir up no ill-feeling.
It might estrange him from the
Ramsayss, and nothing worse than that could
possibly occur."

'* Yes  yes, you are right, North  you have
a cooler judgment in this matter than I have.
Of course I will write to Ramsay ; and ask
him to keep me fully informed of what goes
on''

Roger walked a few paces across the room
and back again.

** Mr. Beaumont," he said, with unconcealed
emotion, *you have shown me this letter 
may I ask you as a favour to let me know
anything that you hear further? She  Kate,
I mean, has always been as dear to me as 
as a sister ; and all I hear shall be received asa
most sacred confidence."

*' Certainly, North, certainly  I quite understand
and appreciate your feeling in the
matter. It will be a relief to me to have someone
to whom I can speak openly. I much fear
that this is only the beginning."

There was nothing more to be said or done

that could give any satisfaction, and presently
the two men separated with a cordial shake of
the hand.

*' He is a capital fellow, that North," soliloquized
Mr. Beaumont. "It would have saved
me a great deal of annoyance if he had taken
it into his head to marry Kate. I almost
wonder he did not ; but I suppose they were
always too much like brother and sister for
him to think of it."

Mr. Beaumont took one night for reflection ;
and then called on Mr. Ferrars at his chambers,
for the purpose of showing him George Ramsay's
letter.

The interview was not likely to prove an
agreeable one to either of the two. Mn
Beaumont had worked off the first burst of
indignation, and had recovered his usual
serenity of manner ; his temper was completely
under control, but he did not spare Mr.
Ferrars a few of those biting sarcasms at which
he was so great an adept. Mr. Ferrars began
by being furious against his son. He had
known that Sydney wanted money, but his
nephew's letter revealed a state of things
which he had been far from realizing. His

wrath against Sydney was none the less violent
because conscience whispered that he had
known enough to make it a duty to inquire
further before allowing the late marriage to
take place.

In the course of conversation, by an inadvertent
word dropped now and again, Mr.
Beaumont gathered that Mr. Ferrars had
not been altogether in ignorance of his son's
pecuniary difficulties. An ironical smile
curled his lip. ** At least," he thought, *' humiliating
as it is to be duped, I am in a better
position than my friend here  a gentleman
would always sooner be duped than dupe
others." And though Mr. Beaumont allowed
this circumstance to pass without open comment,
Mr. Ferrars, in consequence, writhed
under one or two skilful home thrusts. Mr.
Ferrars swore that he would write to Sydney,
and let him know what a scoundrel he thought
him ; and from this course Mr. Beaumont
dissuaded him with great difficulty. But at
last Mr. Ferrars acknowledged that it could
not be done without naming George Ramsay
as their informant ; and on Kate's account
this was of all things to be avoided.

Before they parted, and when Mr. Ferrars
had cooled a little, he remarked, somewhat
shamefacedly, 

** I conclude you do not mean to publish
this abroad, Beaumont ? "

*' Most assuredly not," replied the other;
* it is enough to know it oneself, without inviting
the world to step in and make remarks."

' Quite so  quite so," said Mr. Ferrars,
much relieved. " Of course I supposed not, and
it was as a mere matter of form that I asked.
And I think, under the circumstances, that I
shall let it rest with myself, and not mention
anything about it to Mrs. Ferrars. He may
take a fresh start, and things turn out better
than we expect; and in that case, * least said,
soonest mended' : eh, Beaumont? "

** Certainly," said Mr. Beaumont, drily.

They parted, apparently good friends ; but
the intimacy that had hitherto existed dwindled
to a very distant acquaintanceship, and Mr.
Beaumont was always engaged when Mrs.
Ferrars invited him to dinner.

There remained nothing .to be done but to
write to George Ramsay, and this Mr. Beaumont
did by the next mail. Then he tried to

enjoy the London season, by this time at its
height. But somehow, society seemed to have
lost its charm, amusements their zest, and
rather earlier than was his wont Mr. Beaumont
started for the Continent. He left elaborate
instructions with Benson to forward at once
any letters from South America, and then he
tried to forget about his niece, and to enjoy
himself after his usual fashion. But even in
his wanderings remorse for allowing Kate's
marriage without fuller inquiries into Sydney's
character and circumstances still followed him,
and he left one favourite haunt after another,
wondering how he could have found them so
delightful during previous visits.

And there was one who was even more
troubled about Kate's future than Mr. Beaumont,
and that was Roger North. After
reading George Ramsay's letter, almost the
last remains of selfish regret for his own lost
happiness were swallowed up in sorrow and
anxiety for her. And to a nature like his this
was infinitely the harder trial. He strove
earnestly to hope for better things from
Sydney  he longed inexpressibly for a brother's
right as well as a brother's love to watch over

Kate's welfare, and which would enable him
to hasten to her side at any time of serious
trouble. As it was, he could do but one
thing for her, and that he never failed to do
both night and morning ay, and many a
time beside.

*rit IS THE LITTLE RIFT WITHIN THE LUTE."

The great ship had come to an anchor at
last. For the better part of four weeks she
had ploughed across the pathless ocean ; and
except when some port was touched her
engines had worked and throbbed  giving the
insentient mass of wood and iron a vitality
almost akin to that of sentient life. And now
her busy life was stayed, and she lay on the
bosom of the water as calm and still as any
stone-built palace on the shore. Could it bethe
same ship that had plunged and rolled on
the bounding waves so short a time ago ?
And the quiet ! how strange it was, to ears
accustomed to the unceasing noise of the
great engines  to the creaking and groaning
of the spars  to the sailors' shouts as they
worked the ropes, and to the dash of the



waves as they beat against the huge opposing
mass !

But where the good steamer lay was an
anchorage most strange and desolate  no
sheltering harbour there  no mass of shipping
no port at hand to gladden eyes wearied of
the watery waste. The land Itself was hardly
visible, save to the keenest sight. Was she
not still In the open sea? It seemed so, butin
truth she had steamed many leagues up the
broad La Plata, and now lay fourteen miles
off Buenos Ayres, at the nearest anchorage
safe for so great a ship on that vast river,
with its shallow, gently shelving shores. It was
the end of June  midwinter in the southern
hemisphere  and the day was dull. The water
lay still and leaden under a grey sky ; and a
drearier aspect could not well be found to
greet those who had come so far across the
seas. It was the afternoon of the fourth day
since the steamer had anchored, but neither
passengers nor cargo had been allowed to
leave the ship, for she had been placed In
quarantine.

There are no more rigorous people In the
world for enforcing the laws of quarantine than

the authorities of Buenos Ayres. On the least
suspicion of yellow Jack, or any other fever,
existing at the ports of Brazil, they hedge
themselves with every precaution ; and yet, for
the germs of those terrible epidemics which
from time to time devastate alike both camp
and city, they need not look so far afield 
they fear the distant enemy, while the hidden
foe lies lurking in their over-crowded streets,
and about their vast unsavoury salederos.
Thus it now happened that, for some very
inadequate cause, a quarantine of ten days
had been imposed on all ships arriving from
the north. Fortunately for the passengers of
this steamer, the lazaretto was filled to overflowing
with Italian immigrants ; and the
authorities, to meet the situation, had curtailed
their quarantine to five days, and allowed them
to remain on board. This was the fifth day,
and tomorrow they would land.

Leaning against the taffrail, and gazing over
the grey expanse of seemingly boundless water,
stood Kate Ferrars, and by her side Keziah.
Almost exactly a year had passed since that
June evening when she had sat in the rectory
garden at Belton, playing with her dog and

within sound of the chiming bells. But that
short year had changed her much; and perhaps
the last few weeks had wrought the greatest
change of all. The childlike light-heartedness
was more fitful now than it had ever been
before ; and there was a shadow on her face
which told the dawning knowledge of a
woman's anxiousness. The voyage had been
prosperous and uneventful. Kate fell a victim
to sea-sickness at first, and Keziah fared no
better; but Sydney proved himself an excellent
and tender nurse, and after a week on board
Kate grew used to the motion, and became
quite able to enjoy the sea. So far all was
well ; but in the horizon of her happiness
a little cloud had risen, no bigger than a
man's hand ; and try how she would it was
impossible to forget that it was there.

** Keziah," she said, ** it is a dreary-looking
spot ; I hope it will be more cheerful when we
go on shore."

'' Indeed, ma'am, I hope so too."

*' It seems to me," said Kate, rather mournfully,
*' that of all the places we have seen on
the voyage, we have come to the worst."

** Sunshine would make all the difference,"

remarked Kezlah, *' and they do say there is
plenty of that here most times."

** Of course it would," replied Kate. *' Did
I tell you that I have a letter from my sister,
Mrs. Ramsay ? She says it is impossible for
her to leave the children in order to come and
meet us at Buenos Ayres, but she wants us
to go to their eslangia at once. Won't that be
nice?"

*' Yes, indeed it will, ma'am."

** Mr. Ramsay cannot come to meet us either
there has been some alarm about raids of the
Indians ; and he does not like to leave home."

Keziah's face expressed so much consternation
that Kate laughed.

*you need not be frightened," she said.
*' Your master says there is very little really to
fear in that part ; though farther away there
may be some cause for alarm."

At this moment Sydney came strolling along
the deck, and joined his wife. Keziah moved
away.

'well, Kate," he said cheerfully, "will
you be glad to go on shore tomorrow? "

"Very glad," she answered, slipping her
arm in his.

'' Buenos Ayres is not putting on a bright
face to welcome you," remarked Sydney, ashe,
too, gazed over the grey water.

** Sydney," said Kate, half timidly, ** I hope
we shall be able to go to Mary's almost at
once''

*' Of course  of course," said Sydney, but
his face darkened a little. ** Anyhow, I can
run up with you, and leave you there while I
attend to my own affairs."

Kate's countenance fell.

' I don't want you to leave me there and
go away."

** You silly child ! how can it be helped ? I
have told you, have I not ? that there is no
fit place in our stanza for you to live in ; and
something must be done before you can go
there."

** I am sure I should be content with very
little."

** You don't know what you are talking
about, Kate. Brought up as you have been,
you have no idea what  very little ' means in
the camp. No, I must have some proper
place to take you to. Just fancy how horrified
Mr. Beaumont would be if you went to live in

VOL. II. 6

a four-roomed hut. It is not to be thought of.
Cheer up, little wife," he added, seeing the
tears glistening on her eyelashes, *' you will
be with your sister, and they have a splendid
home for these parts."

" I hope it will not be for long that we must
be apart' said Kate, anxiously.

** You need not be afraid of that, if I can
help it," he answered, looking at her affectionately.
" Thank goodness ! " he went on,
*ewe go on shore tomorrow. By the way, I
had a line from my friend Thorpe, saying that
he would come off on the tug to give us a
welcome. I shall hear all that is going on
from him."

** What is Mr. Thorpe like? is he nice? "

'* Well, I hardly know if he is exactly what
you would call * nice,' " said Sydney, with a
short laugh. * He's good-looking, a gentleman,
and I believe rather a favourite with
many ladies ; but I don't know that he is
exactly your sort, and perhaps I like it none
the worse because he is not."

** Why do you like him then ? " asked Kate,
naively.

*' Oh ! I don t know he amuses me. One

need never be dull with Thorpe ; and one man
may like another without wishing that other to
be a particular friend of his wife."

Kate gave a little sigh.

*' Hollo ! " said Sydney, ' here's that awful
Mrs. Brown bearing down upon us. Here,
Kate, let me go  I can't stand her."

"Don't go, Sydney!" implored Kate, clinging
to his arm. *' I am sure she is a good-hearted
little woman; and perhaps she is not coming
to speak to us."

*eyes, she is  I see it in her eye; and I
will leave you to the full enjoyment of her
society."

Sydney playfully disengaged himself from
Kate's grasp, and sauntered off, bowing in
mock politeness to Mrs. Brown as she drew
near. Whether Mrs, Brown would have
interrupted their tte--tte was doubtful, but
seeing Kate alone she came straight up to her.

To those who had eyes only for good looks
and elegant attire there was undoubtedly
nothing attractive about Mrs. Brown. In
figure she was short and round; while a
shabby sea-stained waterproof, with shady
black straw hat and blue-bottle veil, added

nothing to her appearance. Her face was of
the thoroughly English type of the lower
middle class  wholesome and honest, but by
no means beautiful; her age was not far from
forty.

*weil, Mrs. Ferrars," she began, 'rand how
are you to-day ? "

' Quite well, thank you," replied Kate; but
she looked a little sad.

** I am afraid I frightened your good gentleman
away'' said the other, apologetically,
*' That's the worst of me  I'm such a talker,
and it fatigues some folks. Brown tells me so
himself. Perhaps you feel a bit low, too, at
the thought of landing in a strange country
tomorrow. Law ! bless you, I remember how
I felt myself the first time ; and after years of
wandering there's no place like old England,
says I."

" No, I am sure there is not," assented Kate,
cordially.

'why, even last night," said Mrs. Brown,
with some excitement, "I felt that low at the
idea of being so far away from home that I
couldn't get to sleep; and I just lay in my
berth and tossed and tossed ; and many a sigh

and a groan I gave as I thought of my old
father's pretty villa out Clapham way, and of
my dear boy. And Brown, he calls out at
last, ' Do be quiet, Sally ! whatever are you
moaning and groaning and a-going on like
that for ? I can't get a wink of sleep for your
noise,' he says. * I can't help it, Brown,' says I.

I was just 'having a sigh for old England.'

Shut up, old woman,' he says. * You ought
to know better than to be that sentimental at
your time of life.' "

Kate could not help laughing  her old gay
silvery laugh.

**Ah! you may laugh," said Mrs. Brown,
good-naturedly ; ** and I daresay think me an
old fool for my pains ; but my heart has not
grown old or tough yet, with all its wear and
tear. It's many a year now that Brown and
me has been vagabondizing up and down the
world. Brown's employed, you know, by
Messrs. Tinner and Co., the great firm of
contractors ; and they have that high opinion
of Brown that they send him to prospect for
them where they'll trust no one else."

** And have you always gone with him ? "
asked Kate.

'' Law ! bless you, yes, always. And that
boy of mine, it would surprise you if you
knew all the queer places I took him to when
he was a little one  Russia, Norway, Sweden,
Italy, America. It would take months to
tell you all about it. It's a good thing I never
had but one. I couldn't have dragged a
whole family about like that; and then there
would have been choosing between Brown and
the children ; and that would have been a
regular poser! "

** But your son is not with you now? "
* No, for he's grown a young man, and has
begun business for himself. I would not let
him follow his father's steps. * For,' said I,
it's enough for one woman in a family to be
dragged about like a tin kettle at the end of a
dog's tail ! ' He must have a comfortable,
quiet home for his wife when he gets one.
Law ! I've often said to Brown, it's a very
humble place would satisfy me, if I could but
have a settled home. But you see, Mrs.
Ferrars, with the men it's just ambition ; and
they can't settle down to a quiet humdrum life
after so much stir and excitement, and when I
married Brown I said I took him for better and

for worse, and I meant it, though worse it's
been as regards travelling. You have to make
the best of the men as you find them. Sometimes
we do stop at home for a bit ; and I go
about the old house just like a girl again for
spirits. Then one afternoon Brown will come
in, and he'll say, quite quietly, * Sally, how
long will it take you to pack up your traps ? '
A couple of hours,' says I. * Where are we
off to now, Brown ? ' * Oh, Canada, or Russia,
or South America,' says he ; and next day we're
on the tramp again."

*' Dear me!" said Kate sympathetically,
** you must get very tired of moving about
so much."

*well," said the little woman, cheerfully,
* it seems to me things are pretty equally
divided in this world  some have one trouble
and some another. Friends of mine, who
married the same time as I did, and as far
as I can see have always had comfortable
homes, look a deal more worried and fagged
than 1 do. I'll be off though now," she added.
** I see your good gentleman coming up the
companion, and I've kept him away from you
long enough. Ah ! if you and he are as

satisfied with each other's company twenty
years hence as Brown and me, it's the best
thing I can wish you."

Mrs. Brown left Kate's side with a cheery
laugh, and walked straight up to Sydney.

'* You can go back to your lady now, young
sir. I've had my talk, and I'll keep out of the
way  I'm not offended, I quite understand it
all. There was a time when Brown and me
did not care for interruptions."

** I am sure I feel greatly complimented by
the comparison," said Sydney, sarcastically;
and he strolled back to Kate with a rather
disgusted expression.

* Vulgar little woman ! " he muttered.

Kate looked at him, wistfully.

* No, Sydney, she is not vulgar; though of
course I admit she is not very refined. Do
you know," she added, half shyly, and clasping
his arm once more, ** she was hoping that we
might be as fond of each other twenty years
hence as she and Mr. Brown are. I think we
shall don't you?"

'* Of course, you little goose ! " said Sydney,
laughing, and gazing admiringly at her face.
** There," he continued, turning round towards

the deck, ** look at them  that's what we shall
be like twenty years hence."

Kate laughed merrily ; for the funny little
couple, arm in arm, stamping up and down
the quarter-deck, did not bear much resemblance
to herself and Sydney.

*' I don't know why," she said, ** but they
remind me of Major and Mrs. Stephens in
another class of life. I am sure Mrs. Stephens
would follow her husband anywhere, through
rough and smooth, just as that good little
woman has done."

Then Kate and Sydney also paced the deck,
until the bell for dinner sounded and summoned
them below.

The sun shone out next morning, and all
things looked more bright and cheerful. And
the water seemed to think so too, and tossed
about in a manner that threatened to prove a
trial to bad sailors. For the steam tug employed
to convey the passengers from the
big ship to the shore was but a cockle-shell,
and entirely at the mercy even of a gentle
swell.

On the previous evening, the news went
round that everyone was to be ready to start

immediately after breakfast. But breakfast
was finished and cleared away, and all were
on deck eagerly watching the tiny steamer, only
now making its tardy appearance. Kate and
Sydney were there among the rest, and Keziah
had just locked the last box and was ascending
the companion ; for she and her young mistress,
in their ignorance of the delays always
met with on such occasions, had imagined
that they would be hurried on board the tug
immediately it came alongside. A long time
yet elapsed before it drew near enough for
those on board to recognize those in the tug,
for it carried several passengers coming to
welcome their friends after their long voyage.

*' There is Thorpe!" said Sydney, waving
his hat to a tall, dark man, who responded by
a similar gesture. " You stay here, Kate, and
I will go to meet him at the gangway."

Kate waited and watched while the tug was
brought alongside, and the gangway lowered ;
then she thought of travelling bags and rugs,
still in their cabins, and took Keziah below
to bring them up on deck, while she gave a
last look round to see that nothing was forgotten.
She was away a little while, and on

returning her first thought was to find Sydney.
Everyone on board seemed fully occupied with
their own concerns, and fi-ends, eagerly exchanging
news, had formed themselves into
groups. The quarter-deck was almost deserted,
and right at the stern Kate saw Sydney
standing with his back towards her. He was
talking to a tall, dark man, whom she perceived
at once to be the same who had been pointed
out by Sydney as Thorpe. Her first impulse
was to go up to them ; but then, something
in her husband's attitude and the rather violent
gesticulations of his hands made her hesitate
before interrupting a conversation which might
be on business. She sat down on one of the
seats against a sky-light, and waited with an
uneasiness for which she could not account.
Certainly the conversation between the two
must have been of an engrossing character.
Presently they moved, and came along the
deck. She would have spoken to Sydney, but
on seeing his face she felt frightened. There
was a dark look upon it unknown to her before,
and he passed without appearing to notice that
she was there. Thorpe, on the contrary,
turned to stare her full in the face with a

look of admiration. He had handsome eyes,
but they wore a bold, unpleasant expression
which made the colour mount to Kate's cheek ;
and then she felt angry with herself that it
should have done so. Thorpe and Sydney
disappeared down the companion, and she sat
wondering what could have disturbed her
husband so much. Keziah had brought all
their small packages on the deck, and came
to her mistress ; but Kate felt no inclination to
talk, and remained silent, until Sydney and his
friend reappeared. This time Sydney saw her,
and came towards her, but he avoided meeting
her eye, and said, rather hurriedly, 

Let me introduce my friend Thorpe to
you, Kate."

Kate bowed  she felt a sudden and invincible
repugnance to offering her hand,
which she would naturally have done to an
old friend of her husband.

*' I feel proud to be the first to welcome you
to these parts," said Thorpe, raising his hat.

Thank you," replied Kate, rather stiffly.

But Thorpe was not one to be abashed by
a lady's coolness ; he talked on easily and
fluently enough, while Sydney stood by, hardly

joining in the conversation ; and when Kate
glanced at him anxiously she saw that his
expression was gloomy and absorbed.

Suddenly he said, 

** Here, Thorpe, I want another word with
you, while we can have it in private  you will
excuse us, Kate."

Then they moved away, and did not rejoin
her until they were summoned to go on board
the tug.

The accommodation it offered to the passengers
was very limited ; and the ladies were
crowded together in the stern, while the men
disposed themselves where they best could.
Kate was firmly wedged between Keziah and
Mrs. Brown, whose tongue seemed to have
derived a fresh impetus from the excitement of
the morning. Kate answered occasionally,
but took in very little of what the good woman
was saying. Her thoughts were busy with
Sydney and Mr. Thorpe, and her eyes perpetually
wandered towards where they sat on
the roof of the little deck-house. She felt
conscious of a great and growing dislike to
Thorpe, and of an intense desire to keep him
and Sydney apart. Would her influence avail

to do so ? She wished that she could feel
quite sure that it would.

After a while, the lively motion of the tug
made Mrs. Brown a little quieter; and Kate
was allowed to pursue unmolested her not too
cheerful reflections. But as they drew near
the shore Mrs. Brown roused herself to interest
and indignation.

*' sly goodness! I never saw such a place
in all my life ; a big, rich city like this, and
never a decent place for passengers and cargo
to land. My stars ! Mrs. Ferrars, look at
those carts coming right into the water to
unload the boats, until the horses are almost
swimming  a tine lot of stuff must be spoiled
before all is got high and dry on shore ; and
to think that we should have to toss about in
this miserable little tug for the best part of
two hours, instead of there being a proper
harbour for the big ships. 'Tis plain enough
it's no English colony, or there would have
been a harbour long ago, and things would
have been done respectably, with none of this
muddling and messing. But these Spaniards
are no good  I know something of them in
their own country. And I declare if there is



not a ship stranded right away among the
trees ! how on earth did it get there ? And
look at that miserable, ransacking wooden
wharf! I suppose that's what we are making
for. Well, there does not seem to be much
natural beauty in the country either ; it's the
flattest place I ever saw!"

And so the good woman rambled on, until
they brought up at the end of the wooden
landing-stage, which stretched its long length
into the shallow muddy water. There was the
usual delay and confusion of landing, with
rather an awkward jump for ladies, and then
Kate found herself on the pier with her
husband and Mr. Thorpe.

Sydney looked a little brighter than he had
done, and offered Kate his arm, for the wharf
was not a pleasant one to walk along; there
were holes here and there, and the spaces
between the planks were almost as wide as
the planks themselves. She felt happier when
she had taken his arm and saw that he looked
more like himself, and she tried to shake off
her dislike to Thorpe's presence.

The wharf improved somewhat in solidity
and construction as they neared the shore, but

at best it was not much to boast of, and they
could hear Mrs. Brown, who, with her husband,
was trudging along in front, loud in her
expressions of contempt.

When at last they trod on solid earth, Mr.
Thorpe remarked, 

*' It is but a step to the hotel. I suppose
Mrs. Ferrars will not mind walking ? "

'* Certainly not," replied Kate. '* I shall
prefer to do so."

Then Mrs. Brown came to a standstill, and
addressed them with all the cordiality of a
fellow-passenger at the conclusion of a long
voyage.

** Good-bye, Mrs. Ferrars, my dear. I
daresay we are going different ways, and may
not meet again  good luck to you in the new
country. And good-bye to you too, Mr.
Ferrars  you've got a sweet, pretty young
wife, and mind you take good care of her 
that's all I have to say." Sydney laughed;
but they were parting, and most likely forever
; so he shook hands cordially, and then
they separated.

An ugly waste of shore, liberally besprinkled
with drinking booths for the sailors,

had to be crossed before reaching the streets
and houses. Kate looked around with eager
expectation, but there was nothing in the first
aspect of the city of Buenos Ayres to impressa
new-comer. Turning into a street running
at right angles to the shore, they found it
narrow, and the houses mean; its most remarkable
features being the size and depth of the
gutters and the height to which the foot pavement
was raised above the level of the street.
Kate asked the reason.

*' It can rain here," answered Sydney, ** as
you will see some day; and the basements of
the houses would soon be flooded were not this
provision made for carrying off the water."

' These streets are sometimes like rivers fora
few hours," remarked Thorpe. A short
walk brought them to the hotel, and there
Thorpe shook hands and left, saying that he
had an engagement. As he walked away, he
called back to Sydney, " I shall see you again
tomorrow, Ferrars."

Kate was sorry to hear of the appointment;
but her spirits rose when Thorpe was out of
sight, and she was quite ready to make merry
with Sydney over the difference which their

VOL. II. 7

rooms presented to those In an English hotel.
According to an almost universal Spanish
custom, a pate or uncovered court-yard
occupied the centre of the building, and the
apartments of each storey opened into a gallery,
surrounding the pate and open to the air.
They had a sitting-room at one corner of the
house whose windows looked upon the street;
but their bedrooms were solely lighted and
ventilated by glass doors.

** What would you like to do, Kate? " asked
Sydney, when they had inspected the rooms.
*' Stay indoors, or go for a turn with me ? It
wants an hour or two yet to dinner-time."

*' I will go with you ; I should enjoy a walk
above all things."

Accordingly they went out. Sydney had
shaken off the remembrance of his former
annoyance, and his high spirits and amusing
remarks on the people and their habits made
Kate's walk through the strange city a very
pleasant one.

They returned to find that Keziah had
been busily engaged in unpacking such of
their boxes as had come on shore ; and with
the aid of books and a few knick-knacks had

given the sitting-room quite a homelike appearance.
After dinner, Sydney went to
smoke; but he was not long absent, and oncoming
back he found Kate resting in an
arm-chair, with a rather pensive expression on
her face.

* A penny for your thoughts, lite wife," he
said, gaily, as he drew near to where she sat.

Kate flushed somewhat.

*' I  I don't know if you would much like to
hear them, Sydney."

' Never mind, out with them  you have no
business to keep secrets from me."

* Don't be angry then," she said, with a
pretty deprecating gesture ; '' but  but I don't
like your friend, Mr. Thorpe."

Sydney laughed lightly.

' Well, there's nothing very dreadful in that
I told you beforehand that I did not think
he was your sort."

*eyes, but it is something more than that.
I have a feeling that he is a bad man.
Sydney," she added, more earnestly, clasping
his hand in both of hers, ' do you know
Mrs. Stephens used always to laugh at me for
being superstitious, and I have a strong

feeling now that this man will do some harm
to you and me."

*' I'll take care he does not do that," said
Sydney, stooping down to kiss her upturned
face.

"' But I wish you would not have him for a
friend  I wish you would have nothing more
to do with him ! You may think it very
foolish, Sydney," and the tears came into
Kate's eyes, ** but I shall never feel happy
when I know that you are with him."

*' If he were the best friend I had in the
world, my darling, I would give him up
rather than that you should be made unhappy
! " exclaimed Sydney, vehemently.
** There, I can't say more than that, can I? "

**No," replied Kate, giving him one of her
bright smiles.

** There's not much chance of seeing anything
of him after we leave here," continued
Sydney; ''he always sticks to the town  camp
life does not suit him."

*'I am very glad," said Kate, with much
earnestness. *' But, Sydney, what was he
telling you this morning that disturbed you
so much ? "

Sydney disengaged his hand from hers, and
paced the room. Something of the gloomy
look returned.

'' I can't tell you now, Kate, you shall
know all in good time  something wrong at
the estania ; but it's no good worrying women
with every little detail."

But if it is something disagreeable it won't
seem so bad if you share it with me," she
pleaded.

I don't know that  I know of old from
Julia what a fuss women make over things that
men think nothing of. The fact of the matter
is, I ought to have been here months ago ; but
that's your fault for keeping me at home, so
you must bear the penalty with patience'*

*' Oh, Sydney, I am so sorry ! "

*you need not be sorry  you don't think
that I would have come without you, whatever
it cost, do you, darling ? "

And he came to her side once more.

*' The fact is, Kate, I ought never to have
married you  you are too good for me."

And there was a genuine ring of remorse in
his tone, which Kate, in her innocence, failed
to detect.

*' Perhaps things may not turn out so
smoothly here as I led you to expect ; but I
tell you," he went on, putting his arm around
her, ** now it's done I mean to be a good
husband to you at whatever cost. You believe
me, don't you, dear? "

'* Yes' answered Kate, and from her heart.

And that night  her first in the new country
she went to sleep with a feeling of renewed
happiness and confidence in the future.

''to be weak is miserable."

The next day was Sunday. There was nota
cloud In the sky to dim the brilliant sunshine,
and the atmosphere had all that lightness and
transparency which Is peculiar to the country
of the Rio del Plata, and seems to have been
given as a compensation for the absence of more
beautiful scenery. Vast rivers there are  vast
arteries which drag their slow course between
their low, uninteresting banks ; rich plains
stretch round them, for boundless leagues in all
directions, all ready to repay, and that amply,
any culture which man may choose to bestow
upon them. But nature has given nothing to
break the monotony of the landscape  no rise in
the ground that can be called a hill, hardly even
a bank ; no trees, no shrubs, save here and
there a grotesque uinbu or in summer perhaps

a thistle forest, of mushroom growth, but
tall enough to conceal both man and horse.

This bright Sunday morning Sydney had
shaken off his depression of the preceding day,
and his good spirits communicated themselves
to Kate, who was pleased to be on shore, and
delighted to think that it would not be long
before she saw her sister. Then it was a
pleasure to find an English church so close at
hand, for, brought up as she had been, five
Sundays spent on board ship and without
going to church seemed to her both strange
and unnatural.

As they were walking to the church, Sydney
laughed at Kate's expressions of delight.

' You will have to get used to a great many
Me Sundays without church when you are
living in the camp," he remarked.

** Yes, I suppose I must ; but we shall be
able to go sometimes, shall we not, Sydney? "

*' I daresay," he answered, carelessly.

*' You told me that there is an English
church at Santa Rosa, and how far off is that
from your estaiKia ? "

Sydney frowned, and pulled his moustache
impatiently.

*' You cannot go to church there without
spending two nights at Santa Rosa," he
answered, shortly.

*' And Mary's  is that as far? " asked Kate,
wondering a little why her questions vexed
him.

' Very nearly."

*' Shall you be able to take me over to see
your estan(ia when we are with Mary ? "

*' Yes  no," answered Sydney; 'sit's too
far for you to go there and back in the day.
Look, Kate, those ladies on the other side
of the street are the Mrs. Dancy and her
daughters of whom I have told you."

Kate looked, and the remarks about them
which followed occupied her attention until
they reached the church.

The building outside was devoid of any
church-like appearance ; but within it was
better, and Kate was delighted at the service,
and the hearty congregational singing of dear
familiar hymns, which were led by the clergyman's
young daughters.

On coming away, they were stopped at the
door by Mrs. Dancy, who greeted Sydney
cordially as an old friend, and then asked to

be introduced to Kate. Mrs. Dancy was a
refined, good-looking woman; her daughters
were pleasant ladylike girls, and Kate took
a liking to them at once.

'I shall hope to come and call on you
during the week," said Mrs. Dancy, when
bidding her good-bye.

'I shall be very glad indeed," said Kate;
*but"  and then she hesitated and looked
at Sydney  *' shall we be here ? "

' Of course  of course," he answered;
* you cannot get a trousseau like yours
through the custom-house under a week or
more. Pray do not forget to come, Mrs.
Dancy,  we may be here longer than we
expect ; and I shall feel most grateful if you
will befriend my wife."

Then they parted ; and Kate and Sydney
walked towards the hotel.

** Will it really be so long before we can
go to Mary?" she asked, in a tone of some
disappointment.

A week is not long," said Sydney, lightly.
*' I daresay we may get off some time next
week; but business must be attended to before
pleasure, madam."

** Oh ! I hope that we shall be able to go
next week. I was intending to write to Mary
tomorrow; may I tell her any fixed time?"

'* No, not yet ; you can write again in a few
days, and then I will let you know."

'* Don't think me tiresome about it,
Sydney," said Kate, coaxingly ; "but if you
had only one sister, and had not seen her
for eleven years, you would be in a hurry
too."

'' I am not so sure of that," said Sydney,
laughing. *' Sisters are nicer at a distance
sometimes."

Kate looked indignant,

** I wish you would not make a joke of
everything, and say things you don't mean;
for I am sure that you would be in a hurry to
see Julia and Mabel if you had been parted
for so long a time."

In the afternoon, Sydney proposed a walk,
and they were on the point of starting when
an open carriage drove to the door, and Mr.
Thorpe sprang out.

'' Only just in time ! " he exclaimed. ** How
do you do, Mrs. Ferrars ? "

Kate heartily wished that he had not been

in time, and responded coldly, but he did not
seem to notice her coolness.

** I have brought a carriage, Ferrars, because
I thought your wife might enjoy a drive
this fine afternoon  I am glad that I just
caught you."

Kate looked imploringly at Sydney in hopes
that he would decline, but she could not
catch his eye.

'' Thank you, Thorpe, I am sure Mrs. Ferrars
will be delighted. There are some pleasant
drives outside the town, Kate. Won't you
come upstairs, Thorpe? "

*' No, thank you. If you consent to come
it will be a pity to waste any time. Allow
me, Mrs. Ferrars."

The carriage door was opened, and Kate
was compelled to seat herself without the
possibility of remonstrance.

Sydney went indoors to fetch some extra
wraps; and once in Mr. Thorpe's carriage,
she felt bound to be at least polite, and reply
to his civilities. Sydney returned in a few
minutes, and they drove off.

What Sydney had said of Thorpe was true
he was most agreeable, and on this

occasion exerted himself to the utmost. Still,
Kate's repugnance increased rather than otherwise
during the drive She never looked at
him if she could help it, and was unpleasantly
conscious, more than once, that he was looking
at her in a way that gave her annoyance.
She kept unusually silent, but her companions
did not appear to remark the circumstance ;
while their incessant flow of talk made it
unnecessary for her to sustain any share in
the conversation. It was two hours before
they returned to the hotel, and Sydney
invited Thorpe to remain to dinner, but he
declined the invitation, much to Kate's relief.

Kate wished to go to church in the evening,
but Sydney refused to go, and she gave it up.
He remained chatting with her after dinner,
and at last she could not resist speaking about
what was on her mind.

'* Sydney, I thought you said that you
would not be friends with that man. Why
did you consent to go for the drive? "

*' Don't be ridiculous, Kate  how could I
help it? You don't want me to quarrel with
him openly, do you ? "

'' Perhaps it could not be helped," said

Kate, sorrowfully. "But, Sydney! do you
know he makes me feel quite wicked  I never
took such a dislike to anyone as I have to
him."

*' I wonder what you would say if I took
the same dislike to any of your friends?"
remarked Sydney.

*'I am very sorry' said Kate, penitently.
** I daresay I am very disagreeable about it,
but please don't make greater friends with
him than you can help."

*' All right  I have promised you that
already."

And then they talked no more of Thorpe.

The next day Kate was left alone, for
Sydney was out for many hours  on business,
he said. He only came in just before dinner,
in unusually high spirits, which lasted all
the evening. Tuesday was much the same.
Kate ventured out for a walk with Keziah
during the afternoon, and soon after she came
in Sydney returned, still in good spirits.

*' Kate," he said, when dinner was over,
'' I promised a fellow to go and see him this
evening  you won't mind my leaving you for
once, dear, will you ? "

*'N  no," said Kate, trying to think that
she did not mind.

** Don't sit up  I may be a little late."

And he was late  very late. The next day
all his good spirits seemed to have departed ;
he was gloomy and silent. They went for a
stroll before luncheon, and then he proposed
to hire a couple of horses for a ride in the
afternoon. Kate was delighted, and the
exercise seemed to do him good. When they
came home, she ventured to ask him again
when he would be ready to leave Buenos
Ayres.

*' Very soon," he answered; ** I will let you
know for certain by the end of the week."

And with this she had to rest content, but
the desire to see her sister was becoming
daily stronger, until it amounted to a longing
that was almost painful.

Sunday came once more. It had rained
heavily during the latter part of the week ;
and now, though clear overhead, the streets
were a sea of mud, and far from inviting as
Kate saw them from the sitting room window.
She was dressed and ready for church, waiting
for Sydney. As she stood there her face was

very, very sad. In those eight days since
they landed, the little cloud no bigger thana
man's hand had grown to such dimensions
that it seemed to cover half the sky, and blot
out the sunlight.

The door opened, and Sydney entered.

With an effort Kate summoned a smile to
her face before turning towards him.

** I am quite ready to start, Sydney."

*' All right," he answered ; *' Keziah has her
bonnet on  you can go with her, I am not
going this morning."

'* Oh ! Sydney, you don't mean that  do
come."

And her voice betrayed the sharp pang
within.

** Nonsense ! you don't want me  you know
the way now."

Kate went up to him, and laid her hand
upon his arm, the tears trembling in her
eyes.

*' I have been looking forward so much to
Sunday. I  I thought we should go to church
together, and that you would be with me all
day long. You  you always went to church
at home."

** Yes, when I was after you," he answered,
lightly; ' but not so very frequently at other
times''

Kate drew back suddenly, as if she had been
struck, an expression of intense pain upon her
face. Sydney saw it, but little understood its
depth. How should he ? He thought nothing
of the admission, whilst to her it meant the
realization of a wide gulf between them, of
whose existence she had been growing daily
more and more conscious.

*' Don't make a fuss about nothing, Kate,"
he said, though not unkindly. *' You must
feel by this time that you have married a man,
and not a saint. I daresay I'll go with you
next Sunday, but I don't feel in the mood
to-day. There, you had better be off now, or
you will be late."

She moved silently away, without another
word, and passed into the bedroom to regain
command over herself. She bathed her face,
and changed her veil for a thicker one, to
conceal the traces of tell-tale tears; then going
out to the gallery she called Keziah, and they
started at once.

Kate talked more than usual to Keziah as

VOL. II. 8

they walked along, for she was nervously
anxious that the latter should not detect how
much she was troubled. In church, it was the
dread of notice that alone kept back the tears.
Sydney's refusal to come with her was perhaps
but a trifling thing to cause such distress, and
might not have had so great an effect but
that it came after a week when his long and
unaccountable absences, and alternations of
unnaturally high spirits and great depression,
had filled her with vague alarm. She had
only seen Thorpe once since the previous
Sunday ; but she felt quite certain that he and
Sydney were constantly, nay, almost always,
together. She left the church quickly on the
conclusion of the service, for several ladies
among the congregation had called upon her
during the week, and she dreaded being
stopped by any, and having to answer inquiries
after Sydney. Greatly to her surprise, on reentering
their sitting-room Sydney was there,
and he remained with her all the rest of the
day, rather quiet and subdued, but more
affectionate and tender than he had been for
several days.

Once more he promised that they should

leave Buenos Ayres Immediately  once more
hope revived in her breast.

The following afternoon, Sydney had volunteered
to go with her to return some of the
calls that had been made upon them. Keziah
assisted her mistress to prepare, and then went
to her dinner. Keziah had to take her meals
in a somewhat strange place. There was no
proper accommodation at the hotel for an
English maid. The servants of the establishment
were men, either Spaniards or Italians.
Therefore it had been arranged that she should
have her meals at a table set out on a part of
the gallery which was furthest from their
rooms, but on the same floor. The gallery
was wider there than anywhere else, and less
utilized as a passage. Keziah' s wants were
attended to by an Italian waiter, who  much
to her horror  also performed the duties of
chambermaid.

While she was seated at dinner that day,
two Englishmen came, and stood close by,
leaning against the railing. Probably they
did not notice Keziah, for she was In a dark
corner, and partly hidden by a screen. For a
time she paid no attention to their conversation,

but presently she saw her mistress come out of
the sitting-room and look down into the courtyard,
and, after a few minutes, go back again.

** Hollo ! that's a pretty woman, Fletcher ;
who is she? " asked one of the other.

*' Don't you know?" replied Fletcher.
** She's Sydney Ferrars' young wife, whom he
has just brought out from England  more
shame to him for the way in which he is
treating her ! "

* How so ?" asked the other.

*' Ah ! you only came in from camp last
night, or you would have heard. He's been
gambling like mad all the week. Thorpe got
hold of him again directly he landed. He's
been drinking too, more than he should ; but
that is Thorpe's little game. No sane and
sober man would ever fall so easy a prey."

*what a fool!" said the other. *' He
deserves hanging for treating such a wifelike
that."

And then they moved away ; but not one
word of their conversation had escaped Keziah.
Her blood seemed frozen in her veins. Horrified
at what she had heard, she sat motionless.
At last she saw her master appear, go hurriedly

into the sitting-room, and come out again with
her mistress. She could not eat another
mouthful, despite the polite concern and
entreaties of the Italian waiter ; and slowly,
like one in a dream, she returned to her room,
and closed the door. Then she tried to collect
her thoughts, and decide upon what must be
done. During the weeks that they had been
together Keziah had become deeply attached
to her mistress. She had been greatly interested
in the marriage, and had watched with
pleasure how happy the young couple appeared
to be. Her own troubles had been far from
making her cynical or unsympathizing, but
they had rendered her quick to perceive the
troubles and sorrows of others. Thus the
growing anxiety which Kate believed she had
so carefully concealed were, in reality, clearly
perceived by Keziah, though the latter had too
much delicacy to give the least sign that she
noticed anything amiss. She liked her master
also ; he had always treated her with kindness
and consideration; but for some time she also
had been anxious, for Keziah was older than
Kate, and knew more about the world.

But now, even a worse thing than she had

imagined was suddenly revealed. What ought
she to do? Ought she to tell her mistress?
The very thought of doing so made her turn
faint ; and in the end she did what almost any
other person in the same situation would have
done  nothing. Once or twice the words
trembled on her lips ; then her tongue would
suddenly become paralyzed, and refused to
speak. The weight on her mind made her
look so ill and wretched that Kate remarked
upon it, and asked what ailed her.

Oh, ma'am, T don't think this place agrees
with me ; when  when shall we go into the
country? "

*' Very soon, now, Keziah."

And it vvas hard to say which of the two
most longed to leave Buenos Ayres.

One day in the middle of the week, Kate and
Sydney went by invitation to spend the evening
with Mrs. Dancy. They met several pleasant
English people ; and music was the chief
amusement of the evening, and to which they
had been especially asked to contribute their
assistance ; for Sydney's powers as a vocalist
were well known and much appreciated among
his friends in Buenos Ayres.

While Kate was at the piano, playing the
accompaniments to some of his favourite
songs, it seemed like a return to old days.
Was this the reality ? and were the anxieties
that of late had tortured her day and night
merely the hallucinations of her brain ?
Would indeed that it were so ! As such
thoughts crossed her mind, she glanced almost
involuntarily at Sydney. He stood by her
side, handsome and apparently light-hearted,
his voice pouring forth its rich tones, thrilling
and sweet as of yore. Surely, surely, it must
be she who was in the wrong, ever to allow any
doubts concerning him to trouble her peace.

But alas ! next evening the picture was
reversed  the old pleasant, trusting days had
receded far into the distance ; and she sat
alone, miserable, heart-sick, and anxious.

A NIGHT VIGIL.

At last they had left Buenos Ayres, and were
on board the river steamer which was to take
them up the Parana as far as Santa Rosa. It
was rather more than three weeks since they
had first landed. Had the harm which those
three weeks brought been left behind as
was the city ? or were its disastrous consequences
to dog their steps ? If the latter,
Kate, at least, did not know it; she was young
and hopeful, and gladly lent herself to the
belief that, in quitting Buenos Ayres, they
were leaving Thorpe and the evil influence
which he seemed to exert over Sydney. Her
spirits rose with the first throb of the engine,
even though she saw her husband silent and
depressed. **A little while," she thought, *' and
away from that man he will be himself again."

During the first hour or so, the voyage was
one calculated to afford amusement and interest
to those unfamiliar with its peculiar features.
The vast La Plata is formed by the confluence
of two great rivers  the Parana and the
Uruguay ; and the Parana, before mingling
her waters with those of the sister river,
throws off a maze of narrow streams, which
wend their sinuous way through the rich
alluvial deposits of her delta. Up one of these
narrow streams passes much of the traffic
between Buenos Ayres and the cities situated
on the higher reaches of the river ; and
curiously narrow it is for the passage of a
steamer, with its sharp corners and overhanging
boughs. Men stand on the deck with
long poles, with which they push the steamer
from the banks as she grates against them.
In turning the corners she is sure to want their
help, the stream being too narrow for her to
swing round without it ; and at such times the
drooping willows, which line the banks, sweep
the deck with their long branches.

All this gave interest and amusement to the
beginning of the voyage, but when they
emerged from the delta into the Parana there

was little of interest to be seen ; only the
broad river with its low banks, unnumbered,
uncultivated. Now and again came a hide-laden
ship, floating down on the bosom of the
stream, or from time to time a small town
appeared, with perhaps a wharf, and some
show of life and stir when men were busy
lading a vessel moored alongside.

Whilst they were in the narrow stream
Kate continued to move about, watching all
that was going on ; but when they entered the
big river Sydney found her a seat, and sent
Keziah to fetch the rugs which had been
carried below. Keziah was so long away that
Sydney was on the point of following her,
thinking that she might have been unable to
find what she sought, when at last she reappeared.
As she came towards them, carrying
the rugs, Kate noticed how exceedingly
white she looked.

** Why, Keziah, what is the matter? " she
asked. "Surely the motion is not making you
fancy yourself at sea again."

*' It is nothing, ma'am ; only it was close
and stuffy down below  I shall be all right in
the fresh air."

Keziah arranged the rugs, and then sat
down at a little distance ; but had Kate been
observant she would have seen that Keziah
kept looking towards the companion with a
nervous, startled gaze, and that the fresh air
failed to restore the colour to her cheeks.

Sydney settled himself at Kate's feet, and
lit a cigar. They did not talk much  each
was wrapt in deep reflection. Sydney appeared
absorbed in watching the wreaths of
smoke  so light and vapoury  there only for
an instant, and then disappearing, to leave no
trace of their brief existence; and, as he
watched, did their likeness to his own remorse
for the past, and good intentions for the future,
occur to him, and bear their part in casting
a grave shadow on his face ?

Keziah turned, if possible, a shade whiter
as a tall figure emerged from the companion.
A minute more, and a voice addressed Kate.

** Good morning, Mrs. Ferrars  you have
found a comfortable spot here."

Sydney started violently  his cigar dropped
on the deck, and some muttered words fell
from his lips.

To Kate that voice sounded as the knell of

all her newborn hopes. And yet she was
scarcely surprised. It seemed as if a whispered
and almost latent consciousness had taught
her to believe that this would be. Still, when
it came, it deadened her every feeling, and mechanically
she held out her hand  mechanically
uttered some formal words of greeting.

Perhaps the one thing which gave her a
faint gleam of comfort was the quick perception
that Thorpe's appearance was as
unexpected to Sydney as to herself.

Sydney sprang to his feet, and only recovered
his equanimity by a great effort.

"Why, Thorpe, what brings you here? "

It seemed to Kate that there was a strangely
sinister look in the handsome dark eyes as the
man replied, 

'' I have business to look after at Santa
Rosa, and I thought it would not be so dull if
I were there with you."

Then, uninvited and certainly unwelcome,
he sat down beside them.

Sydney talked and laughed with an assumption
of good spirits ; and Kate's heart ached
with a dull and weary pain, the question ever
repeating itself, " How will all this end ? "



A night had to be spent on board ; and it
was four-and-twenty hours from the time they
left Buenos Ayres before the steamer came insight
of the city of Santa Rosa. The latter was
a place of considerable importance, numbering
not far from twenty thousand inhabitants, and
it carried on a large shipping trade, which
caused its wharf to present a busy and animated
appearance.

Kate did not know how it was, but without
receiving any direct encouragement even from
Sydney Mr. Thorpe attached himself to them,
and seemed to take it for granted that he was
welcome. He walked by her side from the
steamer to the hotel, and took it upon himself
to act as cicerone, and explain all that was to
be seen. More particularly he pointed out
one circumstance, which undoubtedly gave a
gloomy and forbidding aspect to the city,
namely, that every window on the ground
floor was protected by strong perpendicular
bars of iron, suggestive of prison windows,
placed there either to keep dangerous characters
within, or, as Mr. Thorpe explained, to
keep such gentry out, and guard more peaceful
folk from midnight raids and robberies. The

appearance of many of the loiterers in the
streets gave a sense of reality to visions of
such lawless deeds, and it required no great
stretch of imagination to picture them engaged
in burglary and violence.

The " gaucho " of the Argentine Republics
comes of the mixed race of Spanish conqueror
and Indian native. He is wiry and active ; a
gambler, and passionate by nature ; a long
knife ever at hand is concealed somewhere
about his person, and this he hesitates not to
handle at a moment's notice. His dress has a
strange, uncivilized appearance, and almost invariably
consists of a shirt and two "- ponchos,"
of native manufacture. The latter are a sort
of rug, woven from fine merino wool, and each
has a hole in the centre. One poncho is
slipped over head and arms and hangs from
the waist downwards, forming a convenient
apology for breeches ; while the second has a
smaller hole, through which only the head is
passed, and serves the purpose of coat and
waistcoat. These gauchos are the shepherds
and stock-drivers of the country  always on
horseback, and able to ride for an incredible
number of hours without any subsistence

beyond a drink of the universal mate. If
surprised by a dark night, on a journey across
the plains, a g-aucho will tether his horse and
lie down on the bare ground until the return
of dawn permits him once more to resume
his way. For endurance of this kind he is
unrivalled ; but whether he is capable or
desirous of sustained and manual labour is
more than doubtful.

With such surroundings, Kate felt that she
was in a strange country and among a strange
people, and this added somewhat to the load
of care which was weighing upon her spirits.
When they reached the hotel there was something
desolate about its large bare-looking
rooms and long echoing corridors. Sydney
engaged a sitting-room with two bedrooms
opening out of it  the second one for Keziah.
They would be there for two days, he said, for
on the second morning they would make an early
start by train and reach the Ramsayss' estan(ia
the same day. How Kate longed for that
intervening space of time to be annihilated
none but herself could tell. To her, Mercedes
appeared as a haven of refuge, and Mr. Thorpe
as an evil genius sent to molest them on the way.

It was evening, and Kate had returned after
dinner to the sitting-room. She was weary
both in body and mind. They had arrived at
Santa Rosa before midday, and all the afternoon
she had walked about the city. For Mr.
Thorpe seemed determined not to lose sight
of them ; and, as far as Kate could see,
Sydney did not try to shake him off. Rather
than leave them alone together, she would
have walked until she dropped with fatigue,
and she had remained with them as long as
possible, feeling all the time that at best it
was but postponing the evil moment. At last
they brought her back to the hotel, and
Sydney, in answer to her beseeching looks,
promised to follow her upstairs in a few
minutes ; but he only came in hurriedly justin
time to prepare for dinner. Mr. Thorpe
sat with them at the table ; and thus all day
Kate had not found a single opportunity of
speaking to her husband privately.

Keziah had thoughtfully placed books and
work on the table ; but Kate did not even take
them up, and sat weary and dejected. More
than an hour had passed, and then a step
sounded along the corridor which made her

heart beat faster  the door opened, and
Sydney entered, looking flushed and excited.

'* Kate* he said, ** where is my travelling
desk''

Kate did not know, and had to summon
Keziah from the next room. When Keziah
brought the desk Sydney took it from her,
and went into the inner room, carrying one of
the lighted candles from the table. He did
not quite close the door, and Kate could hear
him open the desk, and the rustle of papers ashe
turned them over. She stood irresolute 
she must not lose this opportunity of speaking
to him  and yet it hardly seemed a fitting
one, as he was evidently in a hurry. To speak
might prove worse than useless. She did not
like to follow into the bedroom, for he must
have gone there to search in his desk free
from her observation. Her heart beat so
strongly that she could feel its pulsations, and
she waited with every nerve at its fullest
tension. Suddenly the lock of the desk
clicked, and Sydney came from the bedroom,
thrusting some papers into the breast pocket
of his coat with one hand while he carried
the candlestick in the other. He placed the

VOL. II. 9

latter on the table, and turned to leave the
room without a word.

Kate sprang forward to detain him ; a great
ball seemed to have come into her throat, and
she could not speak.

' What do you want, Kate ? don't keep me
now  I am in a hurry."

She tried to command herself; tried to think
what was best and wisest to say; but, when
she spoke, the effort made her voice sound
harsh and unnatural even to herself.

** Oh ! Sydney, if you love me don't go and
spend the evening with that man ! Have you
not promised to give him up? Don't go
away again ! don't leave me now ! "

** Nonsense ! I must go, I have business to
attend to."

* Sydney ! " she cried, the colour mounting
to her very brow, *' you deceive me, you deceive
yourself. Am I not your wife ?  can you
answer it to your conscience that you are
treating me rightly ? "

''Be quiet, Kate!" he answered, angrily.
Then he pushed her roughly from him, and
was gone.

Kate stood for a moment where he had

left her, and then, sinking down on a
chair, covered her face with her hands, and
uttered a low cry of despair. She knew not
how long she sat thus, wild and unhappy
thoughts coursing each other through her
brain. When at last she roused herself and
looked at her watch, it was past nine o'clock.
She rose and went to Keziah's door.

Keziah, you can come and help me to
undress now, and then you may go to bed 
I daresay you are tired."

Keziah came, and in less than half-an-hour
she said good-night to her mistress and
retired.

But Kate had no thought of rest. She
closed the door into the sitting-room, that the
sound of her movements might not reach
Keziah, and then she paced restlessly up and
down. Now and again the words, ** What can
I do ? what can I do ? " unconsciously passed
her lips. Suddenly she stayed her walk ;
*' I will dress myself again," she said aloud ;
* I will go and look for him. I will beg and
implore him, even on my knees, to come away ! "
But another moment the impossibility of such
a course became apparent. How could she

eo? And where could she find him ? It was
more than likely that he was not even in the
hotel.

She went to the window, pulled aside the
blind, and leaned her burning forehead against
the cold glass. It was a brilliant moonlight
night ; every object stood out as clear as in
the day, but softened and etherealized by the
mystic moonlight. She could see nothing but
the deserted street, the plain, square buildings
opposite, and a strip of pure far-off sky, with
the stars almost eclipsed by the stronger
light. Was it any fault of hers ? she thought;
had she failed in wifely love or gentleness?
Had her words been less persuasive and tender
than they misfht have been ? If it were so,
she would implore his pardon when they met
again.

And now, in the stillness of the night, Kate
heard a sound strange and unfamiliar to her
ears, the measured tread of the watchman on
his beat, and his cry in strange plaintive tones,
' La HOC he es mercia ! "

The words sounded like a mockery in
presence of the pain and trouble which racked
her breast ; and yet her thoughts where diverted

for a moment as she listened to the cry, repeated
again and again, fainter and fainter, as it was
lost in the distance, ''La niche es serene !''
But all seemed dark to her ; and it would have
been more in harmony with her feelings had
the wild wind blown, and the fierce rain beaten
against the windows. Then the bells chimed
from a neighbouring convent, summoning the
monks to one of their nightly vigils. Kate
fancied she could see them rising from their hard
pallets, and moving silently along cold stone
corridors to the dimly lighted chapel, chanting
their offices in the dead of night. She almost
wished she could be with them. Was her
vigil one of less pain and weariness than
theirs ?

A step sounded along the passage, her
heart beat fast with a sudden hope ; but before
it reached the door she knew too well that it
was not Sydney's; and a chill of disappointment
fell upon her. As it passed by, and was
gradually lost in the echoing corridors, she
moved from the window ; and, sitting by the
bed, laid her aching head upon the pillow.
Her thoughts wandered to the past, the days
which, on looking back, seemed by contrast so

perfect and unclouded in their happiness.
Could she, one short year ago, have realized
her present life ? Yet not one thought of
regret at having married Sydney crossed her
mind  for that she was far too loyal. She was
his wife until death did part them. Her one
thought and desire was to be to him ail that
the word "wife" in its fullest and highest
sense implies. Even to herself she shrank
from confessing that he was not what she
believed him to be when she had yielded to
the impassioned pleadings of his love. And
yet it was so. In those days she was young
and inexperienced, with a heart aching for
the loss of her father and craving for some
object on which to bestow its affection. She
had sincerely believed Sydney when he told
her, with all the eloquence of which he was
master, that she was necessary to his happiness.
She had married with the strongest faith in
this, and in the full belief that she loved
him in return. But it was the shadow of
her own creation that she loved, and not
the man as he really was. During her previous
life, the two men with whom she had been
thrown into intimate contact were her father

and Roger North, whose every action was
guided by the highest principle ; and, unconsciously
but naturally, her estimate of other
men was formed from them.

She had been accustomed to see men doers
rather than talkers, professing little and believing
much. Thus she had taken it for
granted that deeper feelings and motives lay
hidden beneath Sydney's bright and attractive
manner. Had she been older, had she been
more versed in this world's wisdom, had she
even been less simple and confiding, the few
months spent in intimacy with his family might
have opened her eyes to the truth ; but as
it was they had failed to do so ; and she
was to learn by the bitter fruit of personal
experience that all men were not as her father
and Roger North,  honourable, unselfish, as
pure in thought and deed before God as in
the sight of man. A few careless words
dropped from Sydney's lips had gradually
brought to her mind a partial perception that
his character was built upon the shifting sand
rather than on the solid rock. Her feeling for
him was not of the kind which, with some
women, blinds them to every shortcoming

in the object of their love ; and thus she
suffered the keenest pangs at every fresh
discovery of how far he fell short of her
ideal.

And now her tears were very bitter, her
hopes for the future had grown fainter. Experience
had already taught that affection
for her would work but little change in
Sydney. Such, she had learned, was buta
frail reed on which to rest when no deeper,
holier principle lay behind. Already, she
listened to his promises with but little faith in
their fulfilment. Where, where was the power
to come from which could strengthen his
character, and make him resist the evil and
turn to the good ? There was but one such
power, and in the silent watches of the night
her fervent prayers and supplications rose
heavenwards.

Again the watchman's step sounding near
and distinct in the dead of night, the watchman's
plaintive cry once more, '' La niche es
serena'' and Kate started from her pillow to
find that she had fallen into a troubled
slumber.

She looked at her watch, it was two o'clock.

She rose and went into the sitting-room. It
was still untenanted. Then she opened the
door into the passage and listened, but could
hear no sound. Her eyes were heavy now
with sleep, and wearily she returned and
crept to bed. As she laid her head upon the
pillow, the convent bells rang out calling
the monks once more to their early vigil ;
and she fell asleep before the last tones of
the bell had died away.

How long her sleep lasted she never knew,
but the awakening was sudden and complete.
She started up to listen. There were sounds
of subdued voices in the sitting-room, then
the door closed gently, and she heard the
tread of retreating footsteps. Her heart beat
painfully, she turned cold with fear of she
knew not what. She sprang from the bed,
and drew on her wrapper with trembling
hands. The moon still shone brightly, and
enough light penetrated through the closed
blinds to distinguish objects in the room.
Opening the sitting-room door she looked in.
At first it seemed empty as before ; but a
second glance revealed a figure stretched upon
the sofa. It was Sydney  that she could see

at once ; but he lay in a strange attitude,
rather as if placed there by other hands than
as he would have lain down by himself.

Kate went up to him, trembling in every
limb. She laid her hand upon his shoulder.

*' Sydney, dear Sydney! speak to me, are
you ill?"

But no answer came ; he did not stir, only
his heavy breathing fell upon her ear.

Hurriedly returning to the inner room, she
struck a light, and bringing it back placed it
upon the table. She spoke to him again,
and lifted his hand, but it fell nerveless from
her grasp. Then she bent over him, and
gradually the truth dawned upon her.

No, he was not ill ; but one of her worst
fears was fully realized.

THE ESTANCIA MERCEDES.

The next evening, Kate and Sydney were at
dinner. Keziah sat at the same table, but at
a little distance. She did not like this arrangement,
but a comfortable meal could be secured
for her only by this means  comfortable, that
is, by comparison ; for the cuisine was hardly
all that could be desired. Mr. Thorpe was
not there, nor had Kate seen him all day.
Keziah finished her dinner as quickly as she
could, and moved away. Almost at the same
moment Mr. Thorpe entered the room, and
came to the table. Sydney looked no better
pleased to see him than did Kate.

'' Good evening, Mrs. Ferrars  your last dii
Santa Rosa ; no doubt you will find the
Ramsayss' house a pleasant change after hotel

life, and hotels here are not like those of Paris
or New York."

**No, indeed said Sydney, contemptuously.
*' To-day we have not had a dish fit to eat."

Your train leaves very early," said Thorpe,
making another effort to draw Kate into
conversation.

"I do not care about that," she replied,
coldly.

'that reminds me," said Sydney; 'await
here a moment, Kate, while I go and speak to
mine host ; ' " and rising, he left the room,
without giving her time to answer.

I am afraid that you are not charmed by
the look of things up country, Mrs. Ferrars ? "
said Thorpe, slipping into Sydney's vacated
chair.

It is very much what I expected," she
replied, trying in vain to preserve a perfect
indifference.

I am afraid you find not only the place,
but the ways, not much to your taste," he
said, with a look full of meaning.

The colour rushed to Kate's face; she
pressed her lips firmly together, and remained
silent.

Thorpe bent forwards, and continued in his
softest tones, 

*' I cannot tell you, Mrs. Ferrars, how much
I felt for you last night  it was most truly
distressing  I tried "

But he got no further. Kate rose from the
table  her face white now, her eyes flashing.
She drew herself up to her full height ; and
there was a ring of indignant scorn in her
voice.

"You forget to whom you are speaking,
sir!"

Then she swept past him ; but on reaching
the sitting-room she was trembling in every
limb with a keen and bitter sense of humiliation.
Her composure was only partly restored
when Sydney made his appearance.

Why did you go away? " he said, rather
irritably. " I thought I asked you to remain."

*' I did not choose to remain with Mr.
Thorpe," replied Kate, feeling that it was
impossible to tell the real reason.

Nonsensehe won't hurt you," said
sydney, with a bitter laugh. *' But I want to
tell you  you quite understand that the train
leaves at eight, and that you must be ready to

Start from the hotel a quarter of an hour earlier.
Have you explained to Kezlah," he added,
looking away from her, '* to put a few of your
things in a small box ? the heavy luggage will
follow later."

*eyes," said Kate; " and what shall she put
up for you ? '*

Oh, never mind my things. I will come
back presently, and see to them myself I am
going to smoke a cigar now, but I shall not belong
; " and with this he left the room.

The next morning there was somewhat of a
hurry to reach the station in time, and at the
last moment Kate was rather astonished by
Sydney asking for her keys.

What do you want them for ? " she
inquired, handing them over.

He flushed slightly, muttered something
about the custom-house, and hurried away.
He soon returned, and then they walked to
the station, which was close by.

The railway in those days penetrated some
hundred and twenty miles into the interior ;
and to perform this distance the train took
twelve hours, including stoppages ; hence the
speed was not that of an express. The station

where George Ramsay would meet them was
four hours from Santa Rosa ; but slowly as the
train crept along, Kate did not wish it to go
any faster. Now that the day had come when
she was to see her sister, she almost shrank
from the meeting. How was she to hide from
that sister's eye the cloud which had descended
on her so young married life ? And as she
watched the monotonous plains as they glided
by, it was hard to keep down her rising tears.

Two Englishmen, whom Kate had met in
Buenos Ayres, were in the train. They were
pleasant, gentlemanly young fellows, who had
settled somewhere along the line. They came
to speak to her, and pay such little attentions
as they could ; for ladies are rare in the camp,
and Kate, fresh from England, perhaps awoke
in their hearts tender memories of sisters and
friends in the old home.

She did her best to respond to their boyish
eagerness to please ; and laughed at their
stories of the wonderful doings of the prairie
dogs, and their own rough attempts at housekeeping.
But was it fancy that they seemed
somewhat shy of Sydney ? The hot blood
mounted to her brow as the thought occurred ;

and did he notice it too ? For, very shortly,
he said something about wanting to smoke,
and moved away to one of the other carriages.
Kate looked wistfully after him, and suppressed
a little sigh as she tried to fix her attention
on what her young companions were saying.
Had they known her a year before, they would
have found her now, by comparison, dull
company. However, she had reason to be
grateful to them, for she was prevented by
their talk from brooding over her troubles ;
and was almost surprised when Sydney returned
to warn her to be ready when the train stopped.

The station was not much of a place according
to English ideas. A small platform and
small wooden shed, with a few wooden-built
huts, clustered together at a little distance,
were all that could be seen.

Kate felt quite dizzy with excitement as she
was carefully assisted to alight by her two
friends ; and was aware of nothing more until
she found herself heartily embraced by a tall
man ; and heard the sound of a cheery voice
which carried her back to years and years ago
back to the days of childhood.

*' Well, Kate! and is this really you ? " he

said, holding her at arm's length. *byword
! what a fine young lady you have
become ! I should never have dared to kiss
you if I had looked at you first ; " and he gave
a laugh, a pleasant, honest laugh, which it did
Kate's heart great good to hear.

** Well, Sydney ! and how are you ?  we
expected you to have been up here long ago ;
you will get a fine scolding from the wife, I
can tell you." Then he turned once more to
Kate.

 Mary couldn't come to meet you; we
have only one servant, and she has so much
to do ; but I was to give any amount of loves
hardly necessary when ten miles will bring
you together, eh ? However, we won't lose
any time. Where's the luggage? "

George Ramsay looked rather astonished
when he saw the modest-sized box which was
all that they had brought.

'that all!" he said. 'why, what have
you done with the rest? "

Sydney answered something about the luggage
being sent afterwards.

'' Well, I could not have taken much more
to the esta72ia to-day," remarked George,

VOL. II. 10

*but you might just as well have brought
it all with you, and I would have sent for it
tomorrow. Now we can't tell to a day when
it will arrive."

Then he hurried them into the rough
waggonette. If Kate had been in her usual
spirits she would have been much amused
by the drive. Never in her life had she driven
in such a carriage or behind such horses.
The carriage looked as though it had not
been washed since it came from the coach-builder,
and was mud-colour or dust-colour
just as it happened to be wet or dry ; while
the horses had shaggy, rough coats ; and
wore harness which might possibly once have
been black. For a short distance they drove
along a partly formed road ; after that, George
struck out across the plains, with apparently
nothing to guide his course ; and Kate wondered
how he found the way. Sydney sat on
the box seat, but George devoted most of his
attention to Kate; and kept turning round,
asking questions about people and places at
home. At last he addressed Keziah.

"You are a Belton girl, I hear. I expect
you'll think this a strange place ; but if you

make up your mind to take the rough with
the smooth you won't find it so bad. We shall
soon give you plenty to do at the estania,
Mrs. Ramsay's nurse left in a hurry, and the
children are running wild." Then he added,
*' Mary and I are thinking, Kate, that we must
get back to England soon, unless we wish the
bairns to grow up like little savages."

** Are the boys at home ? " asked Kate.

''No ; they go to school at Monte Video,
and this does not happen to be holiday time ;
but I am afraid that you will think the girls
are boys in frocks. Look, Kate, you can seethe
house now ; " and George pointed with
his whip towards a little speck of what appeared
to be trees.

Objects can be seen at a great distance in
the clear atmosphere of La Plata, and on its
plains almost as level as the sea. The horses
trotted steadily, but seemingly came no nearer
to the end of their journey ; and it was long
before the separate trees could be distinguished,
and a low square house with its several
details became discernible. Then they seemed
to draw rapidly nearer ; soon a gate and wire
fence were passed ; then large sheep-yards ;

and finally two little girls could be seen
running towards the house as the waggonette
skirted a plantation of poplar trees and willows.

At last George pulled up at the back
entrance.

** Here we are, Mary, safe and sound ! ''
sang out his cheery voice.

And, in another minute, Kate was folded
in a warm and motherly embrace, and both
the sisters' hearts were too full for words.

Then they looked at each other half shyly,
as those must look who love and have been
long parted  to note the changes that time
has made in dear and once familiar faces.

It was a true woman's face into which Kate
gazed ; changed certainly, and the whole figure
matured and matronly, when compared to
what it had been ; but she felt at once that
it was the same kind elder sister who had
been so motherly in days gone by ; and with
a burst of overwrought feeling that could not
be controlled, Kate buried her face on Mary's
shoulder and fairly wept. And Mary's tears
flowed fast in sympathy; for was she not
thinking of the father whose darling this
young sister had been so lately ?

George and Sydney kept out of the way,
pretending to be busy with the horses. Then
at length Mary recovered herself, kissed
Kate fondly through her tears, and led the
way to the house. The little girls had been
hanging back shyly, but now their mother
called them.

*you must be introduced to your nieces,
Kate  this is Rosa ; and this your god-child
and namesake, only we call her Kitty."

They were pretty children  six and four
years old, with fair hair rather wild and
tangled, and faces somewhat tanned and
freckled by the sun. They looked at their
aunt with open-wide blue eyes ; but could
not be coaxed from the protection of their
mother's dress.

' Never mind them," said Mary, '* they are
silly little things. They see so few strangers
that the sight of a fresh face makes them shy ;
but they will be friendly enough by-and-bye ! "

Mary was proud of her home, and proud to
show it to her sister. Though un-english in
its arrangements, the house was comfortable
and convenient for the requirements of the
climate. It was one-storied and square, with

the inevitable patio occupying the centre of
the square. A corridor, covered overhead,
but open to the patio, formed the sole means
of communication between the various apartments.
The bedrooms had glazed doors
opening into the corridor ; and some of them
possessed no other window.

The only closed-in passage was a short one
between the front door and the patio. To the
right of this was the dining-room, to the left
the drawing-room  each of good dimensions,
and with windows looking into the garden.

The house had been built many years before
by a Spanish grandee, who had gone to great
expense in its erection, so that it far exceeded
in size and comfort any other to be found in a
large tract of country ; nor could many boast
of such pleasant gardens and plantations.
This grandee had been led to so great an
expenditure by the belief that he possessed
a taste for rural pleasures ; but, after a time,
becoming oppressed with emiui, he was glad
to sell his stanza to four enterprising Englishmen.
Of these George Ramsay was one,
and as he managed the property he lived
at Mercedes.

Mary had contrived to give the sitting-rooms
a home-like appearance ; and, passing
through them, Kate recognized many a gift
in which she had aided her father's choice.
But Mary thought more of her children than
of her pretty things ; she had her baby-boy
to show ; and soon they went to look for him
in the kitchen, where he had been left under
the eye of a rough old Scotch woman.

Mary lamented that she had but this one
servant in the house, and rejoiced over the
prospect of Keziah's help.

*' Keziah will be delighted to help," remarked
Kate. *' She has been quite unhappy
because she has had so little to do."

'* She need not be unhappy any longer
then," said Mary laughing. '* We can always
find her something to do here."

Then Mary insisted that Kate should partake
of a substantial luncheon, already spread
in the dining-room, and sent the little girls to
summon their father and uncle.

It would be hard to say what the reunited
sisters did not talk about that first afternoon.
Only, Kate found herself nervously avoiding
any reference to the three weeks spent in

Buenos Ayres, or, alas ! to the future ; for a
suspicion was growing that some dark cloud
hung over herself and Sydney. But now she
was with Mary ; and she tried to forget all else
in the happiness of their meeting.

" George," said Mary, on the first opportunity
of speaking a word alone to her husband,
** I don't quite like the look of things. I am
much afraid that something Is wrong beyond
the forced sale of the estancia''

George looked grave.

** I fear so too. I mean to speak to Sydney
to-night, and inquire what his plans are for
the future. If he will let me, I may be able to
help him with sound advice. Mr. Beaumont
mentioned In his last letter that Sydney has
Kate's ten thousand ; but I do not know If all
the creditors' claims are satisfied, or If they
will intrench on that. And I can't say that I
like this long delay in Buenos Ayres."

Mary began to cry ; she had a kind and
tender heart, and her tears of sympathy were
ever ready.

*'My poor Kate! How sad it is! and I
dare not talk openly to her, for I have no idea
how much she knows."

'* If you take my advice, you will keep quiet
for the present," replied her husband. "It is
at least one good thing that he has brought
her here."

I wish that you could have gone to meet
them at Buenos Ayres ! I wish that I had
never written to my father asking him to
invite Sydney to Belton ! "

** Now, Mary, do not begin to reproach
yourself for what is no fault of yours. I might
just as well lay the blame on his being a relation
of mine  a fact which has helped to
further the intimacy. I suppose it was to be.
If your father had not died just when he did,
most likely this marriage would never have
taken place ; and I suppose you don't consider
yourself responsible for the time of his
death."

'* N  no," said Mary, *' but ever since you
told me of Sydney's creditors having seized
the estajiia I have never ceased to regret
that letter."

*' There's the tea-bell  dry your eyes, old
lady! " said George, giving her a kiss, "At
all events, we will take the best care we can of
Kate. Sydney is not a bad fellow at heart 

I think he is amenable to good influence, and
will listen to reason. Anyhow, he is looking
awfully down in the month."

That evening there was a constraint upon
them all. Sydney tried to pass it off by
making much of little Rosa, who was allowed
to have tea with the grown-up people in honour
of her aunt's arrival. She fraternized with him
at once, and afterwards he sang comic songs
for her amusement, and kept her up long after
Mary had said it was bed-time. Sydney could
always attract children if he chose to take the
trouble, and perhaps he was never seen to
greater advantage than when among them.
At last Rosa was led away by her mother, but
not before she had flung her arms round
Sydney's neck, and whispered in his ear as a
great secret, *' I love you, Uncle Sydney ! "

Kate was haled with pleasure to see him
thus ; and when she looked round the homelike
room, and met kind smiles from George and
Mary, it seemed as though she had been
wafted back to another world. At nine o'clock
Mary rose. 'ewe keep early hours, Kate;
you look tired, and I shall make you come
to bed."

Kate laughed and submitted  pleased once
more even to be ordered about by Mary.

The sisters bade each other one last affectionate
good-night, and then they separated.
Kate's room was next to the dining-room, and
there were double doors between the two.
By-and-bye she heard her husband and George
Ramsay talking together. Sometimes their
voices were raised as in excitement, but for the
most part they conversed in low tones, and she
could not distinguish anything that was said.
She felt happy that Sydney should be talking
to George, whatever it was about ; and long
before the conversation ended she had fallen
asleep, with a more peaceful feeling than she
had known for many days.

Keziah was up betimes next morning, and
began the work of the day by tidying the
nursery. She had slept In the same room with
the two little girls ; and as they were awake,
and eager to get up, she proceeded to dress
them. Keziah was singularly well suited to
have the care of children ; she loved them,
and her sweet face and gentle ways attracted
the little ones at once ; while her firm, quiet
manner soon taught them to obey. Rosa and

Kitty were good as gold, and listened with the
deepest interest to her stories of what little
girls did in England.

** I want to go to England," said Rosa;
mamma says there are lots and lots of pretty
flowers there, everywhere  everywhere, out on
the plains, where we can gather as many as
we like. I may gather the flowers in the
garden, but Kitty mayn't; she's too little, and
pulls them up by the roots."

"Me shall gather them ! " said Kitty, growing
very red.

"- No, you shan't ! " replied her elder sister ;
and then Keziah had to interfere.

When the children were dressed she knocked
at Mrs. Ramsay's door.

Please, ma'am, will you let me have baby
to dress ? "

Mrs. Ramsay looked a little doubtful. "You
are very good, Keziah, but no one but myself
has ever dressed him since he was a fortnight
old. I could not trust the girl who has just
left. Are you sure that you are accustomed
to babies? "

*' I am very fond of them, ma'am, and have
often dressed them."



Mrs. Ramsay put the baby into her arms,
but maternal anxiety made her follow to the
nursery ; and there she stayed to watch, for
fear that Keziah did not thoroughly understand
the mysteries of a baby's toilet. But soon she
was satisfied, and Keziah was quietly installed
as nurse.

When Kate appeared at the breakfast table
she talked and laughed about this with something
of her old gaiety.

'' Keziah would come and help me also this
morning," she said, "but I tell her I won't
have her again ; I must begin to make myself
useful."

** I am quite ashamed to take possession of
her in this way," said Mary, apologetically.
*' I have written to a friend in Buenos Ayres to
send me another nurse, but I may have to wait
a long time  they are so difficult to get. And
any way," she added, with a sigh, *' there is no
chance of one like Keziah ; she is a perfect
treasure; just the sort of person I have always
longed to have about the children.

** Well, you can have her for the present,
at all events," said Kate, brightly. '' I mean
to learn to do my own hair forthwith ; and you

must teach me all sorts of useful things, Mary.
I must learn to cook, or Sydney will have a
queer dinner the first time he depends on me.
It would be absurd to be waited upon by a
maid. Keziah will have no time for that
when we get settled on our estania, will
she, Sydney ? "

But Sydney made no reply ; he turned away,
and busied himself with a handsome Gordon
setter  a privileged pet who had made his
way to the breakfast table.

Mary regarded her sister wistfully. Was
it possible she remained in ignorance that
Sydney had no longer any estania ? "" Alas ! "
thought Mary, " poor child ! she has harder
lessons to learn than to do her own hair and
cook the dinner."

Both men went out of doors directly
breakfast was over ; and, relieved of all immediate
anxiety about Sydney, Kate spent
the morning very happily  making friends
with her little nieces, and much amused by
watching Mary's domestic ways, so different
from those of a lady at home, with plenty of
servants to do her bidding.

*why, Mary," she said, '' if you go home

and have five or six servants you won't know
what to do with yourself after this sort of
life'

** It is very easy to learn to be lazy," replied
Mary, laughing. '* J found that out even this
morning. At first I did not like giving up
baby to Keziah, but once done it was quite
pleasant to be able to take my leisure and
be spared the exertion of dressing him."

They all met again at half-past twelve for
dinner. When the meal was nearly finished,
Sydney remarked 

** I suppose I had better start about two
o'clock, George. Which horse can I have ? "

"Start!" exclaimed Kate. "Where are
you going ? "

To Santa Rosa," replied Sydney, without
looking at her. " Which horse did you
say ? "

I will show you after dinner," answered
George gravely.

Then a rather painful silence fell upon them.
Kate could not speak. She was seized with
blank dismay. Was she to have no brief
space for peace of mind with regard to
Sydney? And she turned cold with fear at

the thought of his returning alone to Santa
Rosa.

' Sydney," she said at last, in a low constrained
voice, " I did not understand that
you would have to return to-day."

** Did you not ? " he replied ; *' I thought I
told you  ask George, he will tell you too
that it is necessary I should go."

** Which day will you return?" asked
George. ''I will send to meet you."

** To-day is Friday  Wednesday will do, I
think," answered Sydney. Then he rose from
the table, and added, *' If you will come with
me now, it is time to see about the horse
I will come back to the house before I go,
Kate."

The cousins left the room together. Mary
rose, and, with moistened eyes, came to kiss
her sister.

** Never mind, dear," she said ; ** he will
only be away for a few days ; and I shall have
you all to myself."

Kate could not trust her voice to answer,
and went to watch for Sydney's return from
the stables. It seemed long before he came,
and when he did she took his arm, and drew

him into their own room. Mary had kept out
of the way.

** I have only a few minutes, Kate," said
Sydney, uneasily, and looking at his watch.

** I know, I know," she replied, in a choked
voice. *' I will not keep you if you must go 
but dear, dear Sydney! once more I pray you,
do not let that bad man lead you to do what
you know to be wrong ! "

' Thorpe, you mean ? You need not fear
him any more ; he was to leave Santa Rosa
yesterday. Make your mind easy about that,
at all events;" and he laughed bitterly.

** Thank Heaven!" murmured Kate, her
arms clinging fondly round his neck.

*' I must go now, my dear child, if there
is nothing more you want to say."

And Sydney's face worked as with some
strong emotion.

Kate did not speak.

*' Good-bye ! " he said,  *' good-bye ! "

Then other words he would have spoken
died upon his lips  he clasped her to him
in one last fervent embrace  released himself
from her encircling arms, and left the room.

Kate would have followed, but her trembling

VOL. II. I I

limbs refused to carry her farther than the
door. She saw him cross the patio, and then
little Rosa ran out from the nursery, and took
his hand.

And, with the child clinging to his side, her
husband passed out of sight.

SYDNEY DISAPPEARS.

The day was bright and clear. The early
morning crispness had almost amounted to
a frost  an occurrence very rare at Mercedes
save in the depth of winter. But, by midday
the sun shone bright and warm, but not too
warm, for the air was fresh and exhilarating.

It was the day of Sydney's return ; and
George, seeing Kate's anxiety, had driven her
to meet the train, and they were now waiting
at the station.

They had arrived somewhat early ; and
Kate, with a beating and anxious heart, satin
the waggonette.

On the level plains around there was nothing
to obstruct a view of the approaching train
for a very great distance, not in fact as far
as the eye could reach. There it was now,

visible by its long trail of smoke ; and creeping,
creeping, oh, so slowly ! towards them.
Would Sydney come ? Kate could not answer
the question with the certainty that she could
have wished. Since he went away, she had
resolutely tried to believe that there was no
doubt about his return on the day named ;
and had endeavoured to draw consolation
from the knowledge that Thorpe was no
longer at Santa Rosa. But, as the train drew
nearer and nearer, she almost desired the
suspense to be prolonged rather than face the
certainty of disappointment. Should she remain
where she sat, or proceed to the platform ?
She scarcely knew in which place the waiting
would be most bearable ; and, while she
hesitated, George decided the matter.

** Kate, if you will go to the platform and
look out for Sydney, I will mind the horses."

So she got out, and stood watching. How
long it seemed, even yet ! She was thankful
that there was no one by to notice her agitation
; and as the train came slowly along the
platform, she clasped her hands tightly together.
A moment more and several men
alighted  she looked rapidly among them ;

and then again, to be sure that her eyes
did not deceive her. But no Sydney was
there. Could he be in the train? With a
last faint hope she glanced into all the
carriages. No ! he was not there. Her
heart became heavy as lead ; it was hard even
to face George, but in her anxiety she hurried
to tell him the news before the train could
leave.

*' George," she said, with dry and trembling
lips, " I cannot see Sydney; you go and look
while I mind the horses."

George gave her a compassionate glance,
but said nothing, and hurried away. He
returned in a few minutes, alone, as she knew
too surely that he would.

'* You were right, he's not there," he called
out, in a voice intended to be cheering.
** Something must have prevented him from
starting at the last moment ; your luggage
has not come either. Never mind ! he'll be
here tomorrow; we will send down to meet
him again."

Driving home, George talked lightly of
the matter. ** You're learning a wife's experience,
Kate. I have often done the same

thing, and a fine fuss Mary has been in 
thinking that I was murdered, or I know not
what had happened. He might have sent a
line to tell you the reason why he could not
come ; but as he has not done so it is all the
more certain that he will be here to-morrow'*

Kate tried hard to feel the consolation that
George's argument was intended to convey ;
but could not help fearing that he was uneasy
himself, and was only trying to cheer her,
and not speaking from his own convictions.
The chill of some impending trouble greater
and darker than she had known before seemed
to have descended, and all her efforts to shake
it off were vain.

The next day, George could not go to meet
the train, but sent a man with a led horse
for Sydney. Long before the hour when they
might be expected to arrive, Kate was too
restless and miserable to do anything but
wander in the garden and return from time
to time to the point whence the furthest view
could be obtained across the plains. At last,
two tiny moving specks were visible in the
far distance ; and Kate suddenly felt the load
lifted from off her heart, and laughed almost

aloud to think how foolish she had been to go
through such tortures of anxiety. Then as
the specks drew nearer she strained her eyes
in the dazzling sunlight to make sure if they
were the horsemen she expected. Had her
vision become defective with looking so long ?
Or could it be that but one of the two horses
carried a rider ? Alas ! a little longer and
there was no doubt. But perhaps it might be
some other horseman, and not the one sent
from the estania. So she walked rapidly
towards the gate to obtain a nearer view.

As the man and horses approached she could
delude herself no longer, and would have returned
to the house ; but faint and sick with
hope deferred, she was obliged to sit down by
the fence. The man came up and passed by
without noticing her ; and then, with a lingering
idea that he might at least have brought
some news of Sydney, she rallied her strength
and followed to the house.

In the dining-room was Mary, with the baby
on her knee. George had just come in, and
was speaking to his wife as Kate entered.
He paused, and looked towards her with an
expression of grave concern.

*' Sydney has not come," he said, kindly.
*but here is a letter."

Kate received it without a word, and passed
into her own room.

The others maintained a troubled silence,
Mary rocking the baby and wiping away a
tear. George was about to speak when the
door opened, and Kate appeared  her face
white as marble, her very lips blanched,
holding the open letter in her hand.

*read it, George!" she said, wildly.
*' Tell me, in mercy tell me, what he means ! "

George took the letter, and she sank down
upon a chair, covering her face with both
hands.

Then he read as follows : 

"Santa Rosa,
Sunday,

** Kate,  I address you by no term of affection,
because, when you know all, to do so would
appear but as a piece of hypocrisy on my part.
Neither will I waste time in telling of my misdoings
 there is no fear but that you will learn
them from others in their fullest details. Nor
will I write words of contrition for what I have
done, since it cannot now be undone. This

only I say  consider yourself for the future as
free as air from any interference on my part
return to your uncle if you will ; and rest
assured that this one small reparation I will
make  your life shall no more be darkened by

** Sydney Ferrara'

George read with knitted brows, and drew a
deep sigh as he finished. Mary had watched
him in terrified silence, and now she whispered
hoarsely, 

'' What is it, George ? "

He did not answer ; he had grown red with
honest indignation, and the presence of Kate
alone checked the strong expressions which
trembled on his lips. When Mary spoke,
Kate withdrew her hands from before her face,
and looked at George as though silently imploring
some relief in her great misery.

A moment's reflection, though failing to
suggest to George's practical mind what it was
best to say, at least told him what it was best
to do. He consulted his watch.

'* There is just time to catch the train to
Santa Rosa," he said, *'if I start immediately."

*' Oh, take me with you ! " implored Kate.

** That is Impossible," replied George,
kindly but firmly. ** There is only just time forme
to reach the station, and, as you must see,
it is of the utmost importance to reach Santa

Rosa as soon as possible if " he paused,

for he was about to add words which implied
a doubt of finding Sydney still there. Then
he continued quickly, *eyes, I must go at once.
Write a letter, Kate, if you will, for me to
take, while I see about the horses ; but there
is no time for a moment's delay."

And George hurried from the room, glad
that action rather than speech was required.

Mary, not understanding all, sat still in
stunned amazement ; and Kate, as well as
trembling hands and tear-dimmed eyes would
permit, penned some hurried lines to Sydney,
imploring him in every term of affection to
return ; and assuring him of her forgiveness
whatever it might be that he had done. The
letter, when written, was hardly legible, and
she would have begun another, had not George
reappeared when she had just finished the first.

She placed it in his hand, and spoke in
faltering tones, 

*' Bring him back to me, George ! "

** You may depend upon my doing the best
I can," he replied.

Then the two women followed to see him
mount and ride away. He led a second horse,
and this gave Kate a little gleam of hope.

'' Don't expect me back tomorrow," were
George's last words as he mounted. '* It is
more than likely that I may have to remain
until the next day, but I will come then or
send some very good reason why I don't."

Then he rode off at a brisk pace, which
quickened into a gallop as he reached the
grassy plains outside the gate. Silently the
sisters watched him out of sight ; and as they
turned towards the house Mary put her arm
round Kate.

** What is it, dear? I cannot understand."

*' I cannot tell you, Mary  you may read the
letter, but let me go away for a little by
myself  I think that I can bear it best alone."

So Mary kissed her, and cried a little ; and
then Kate went to her room. Mary did not
see her again until they met at tea-time.
Kate was then quiet and composed, but her
face was very white; and bore a nervous,
wistful look which made Mary's kind heartache.

Later on, when the children were in
bed, and there was no chance of interruption,
Kate's composure gave way, and with it the
last barrier of reserve. Then, in sentences
broken by many tears, she told the sad history
of the weeks since they had landed. Mary
could only weep, and soothe her sister with fond
caresses, while many a silent thanksgiving
went up on high for her happier lot, and
trusted, honoured husband.

The next day dawned dull and dreary All
the morning, Mary tried to persuade her sister
and herself that there was but little chance
of George's return that day, and that on the
whole it would augur for the best if he did not
come. But when the hour arrived at which he
might be expected, Kate was too miserable
and anxious to do anything but watch. Heavy
rain had begun to fall at noon, so that it was
impossible to venture out of doors, and she
crept away to her room, unable to bear the
weight of Mary's kind and tender glances.
The last half-hour of waiting and suspense was
one protracted agony. Every possible ill that
could have happened to Sydney was conjured
up to her imagination.

Surely that was George's voice, and Kate's
heart stood still as she sprang to the door, and
looked into the patio. Yes ! George was there,
coming through the back entrance  dripping
wet. Mary was with him, and he went towards
his room. But  he was alone ! Kate waited
a moment to assure herself of this ; and then
shrank back into her room, feeling that there
was something worse to come.

Before long George entered the diningroom,
where a fire was lighted, for the day had
turned chilly with the rain. He sat down to
the dinner which was on the table, while
Mary, with the baby in her arms, seated
herself by the fire.

** It is a worse business, Mary, than I had
imagined," said George, with a grave face.

** Must Kate be told everything ? " asked
Mary piteously.

'' Goodness knows ! but to tell her will bethe
worst day's work that I have ever had todo."


The door of Kate's room opened ; and she
stood before them with her white and haggard
face.

** George," she said, in a low hollow voice.

* why has Sydney not returned with you ?
tell me all ; tell me the worst  I can bear
anything better than this suspense."

*' Sydney had left Santa Rosa before I got
there," replied George.

"' But is he alive  is he well ? " cried
Kate wildly,  'eat least in pity tell me
that!"

So far as I know he is both alive and well,"
George answered quickly. " Don't distress
yourself about that  he has joined one of
the bands of emigrants to Paraguay, and
has gone up the river to Assuncion."

Then I must go to him  I must follow
him," she said, clasping her hands together.

'* There will be time to talk about that,"
replied George, soothingly.

Kate passed her hand over her forehead
with a bewildered look.

But why has he done this ? why has he
gone away from me ? "

Mary's tears, which had with difficulty been
so far kept back, now broke forth unrestrainedly;
and the baby awoke, frightened,
and began to cry loudly.

"Mary," said George, "I think you had

better go away, and leave me alone with
Kate''

Mary rose, and gathered the baby in her
arms ; then, without daring to give even
a passing glance at her sister, she left the
room.

Kate uttered a low moan as of pain.

'* Oh ! George, what is it ? has he done something
very bad ? "

' Very bad towards you ; it is a most painful
story. Are you sure that you can bear to hear
it, my poor child ? '*

*eyes, tell me all  tell me the worst; I
would rather know;" and she sat down by
the table, resting her arms upon it, and hiding
her face from George's sight. And so, while
he spoke, she remained  motionless save for
the slight quiver of her shoulders which
betrayed an agitation that shook her to the
very soul.

George still hesitated to begin.

*' Go on," she whispered in a low voice.
** I am ready."

* It is difficult to know where to begin,
Kate. I fear your experience of Sydney has
already given you some insight into the weakness

of his character, and he has gone from
one folly to another until the end is utter
ruin ; and now, feeling how he has wronged
you, remorse has led him to fly from your
side. He seems to have kept everything from
you ; I fancy you don't even know that he was
in difficulties before he went to England, and
that his creditors seized the estania two months
ago."

Kate raised her head.

** Do you mean that he is in debt ? But
surely there is money of mine that will pay
all?"

** I have not told you the worst," exclaimed
George. '* His first deceit was bad enough ;
but, my poor child, your money is gone 
shamefully gone  gambled away ! "

'* Gambled ! " cried Kate with horror.
*Has Sydney gambled?"

A crimson flush of shame overspread her
pale face, and her head was bowed once more
upon her hands.

** Yes," went on poor George, divided
between indignation against Sydney and pity
for Kate ; " alas ! it is so ; he has gambled
away every penny. I learnt at Santa Rosa

that he fell again into Thorpe's hands. From
what Mary tells me you may at least be
prepared to hear that."

** I knew it  I knew it ! " she murmured.

Knew what ? ' ' asked George.

*' I knew that Mr. Thorpe was a bad man,"
she cried, passionately; "and that in someway
he would be poor Sydney's ruin."

George rose from his untouched meal.

* I fear we must not lay all the blame on
Thorpe; it is hard to talk of Sydney's
conduct, and not use some strong expressions
regarding it which would be unfitting for you,
as his wife, to hear."

Kate looked up with beseeching eyes and
quivering lips.

Oh ! tell me, George, what can we do ?
Can we not bring him back? I don't even
understand where it is that he has gone.
How could he be so cruel as to go away like
that!"

** Cruel indeed, Kate ! I believe when he left
here that he never meant to return. The first
night you spent at Santa Rosa he was cleared
out of his last penny. As far as I can learn
he was in a desperate state, not caring what

VOL. II. 12

became of him. A party of emigrants were
passing up the river, and touched at Santa
Rosa on Sunday afternoon ; and without a
moment's further consideration he joined
them, and went off that night. These emigrants
are sent by government to re-people
Paraguay, which was almost depopulated
during the war ; and as for your following
him there, it is out of the question, nor
can he wish it. The country is wild and
unhealthy; I cannot leave home to go with
you, and for you to go alone with Keziah
is impossible. He has at least had the grace
to place you in our care ; and you must stay
here until he comes back."

*' Then you think he will come back?"
asked Kate, eagerly catching at a mere straw
of hope.

*' I hope so ; at all events you must write to
him."

I will  I will," she said, burying her face
in her hands once more.

George looked at her sadly. How young
and girlish she appeared to be crushed to the
earth by grief and shame for another's sin !
and indignation rose in his honest heart

against the man who had wrought such utter
havoc among the fair spring blossoms of her
youth. Even at the best, how could it all
end ? Were Sydney to return, penitent and
reformed, could he even then revive the fair
sweet buds of youth which his wrong-doing
had so ruthlessly crushed ?

But even George could little guess the
shock his revelations were to Kate's pure soul.
He was but a man, and his perception of the
hatefulness of sin was perhaps somewhat
blunted by frequent contact with the world.
But to her it was now brought home for the
first time in her tenderest, most vulnerable
point, in the person of the husband whom it
would have been her delight to revere as the
embodiment of spotless honour.

*ris there anything more to tell?" asked
Kate, at length.

"No, I think not ; nothing except what you
know already," answered George. For the
kind fellow was anxious to spare her all he
could, and would not mention that he had
found her luggage seized by the hotel keeper
for debts contracted by Sydney before he went
to England, and which George had been

obliged to pay in full before he could regain
possession of even her clothes.

And even so, the greater part of Kate's
elaborate trousseau and many wedding gifts
she never saw again. The cases had been
left at Buenos Ayres, and fell into the hands
of Sydney's creditors. But little she cared
for this, either then or afterwards, her heart
was too full of troubles far more serious.

*' If you have nothing more to tell me," she
said, " I will go to my room for a while.
Please tell Mary that I would rather be
alone." And she went to wrestle in solitude
with the first bitterness of her woe.

And very bitter it was. None but herself
remembered that this day was the anniversary
of her father's death. It was but one year
since the first real sorrow her bright young
life had known. But keen as that sorrow had
been, how softened, how tender it was compared
to this ! From the very first it was
tempered with rejoicing for her father's sake.
She had felt with subdued awe and gladness
that he had been taken from her to the
presence of the Master Whom he had loved
to serve, and to re-union with the wife whose

loss he had mourned so long. How could she
fail to compare that hallowed grief with the
trial  bitter as the waters of March  which had
now overwhelmed her ? Rather, a thousand
times rather, would she have followed Sydney
to an early grave, his character unstained, his
honour unsullied, than be obliged to think
of him as a voluntary exile from her presence,
and a weak victim to his passions.

And so the hours wore on ; and she was
hardly conscious of their lapse, until Mary
would leave her alone no longer, and came
to her room. And Mary was needed, for a
violent hysterical attack had just commenced,
and during the next few days Kate lay very
ill, and requiring all her sister's care.

To his wife, George entered into more
details of what had occurred, and relieved
himself by many strong expressions of wrath
against Sydney.

'* It is the most shameful case that I ever
knew, Mary ! What will keep a man straight
if he is determined to go direct to the devil ?
when too he has a young wife, whom he
professes to love, dependent on him for protection
? That curse of drink has been at the

bottom of it. That fiend Thorpe knew his
weak point well, and lured him to destruction
with consummate cunning. Sydney could not
have been such a poor fool as not to see where
he was being led, had he kept his brain clear.
It seems Thorpe did not play himself; he was
too clever to do that, for fear of a quarrel,
which would have ended all ; but he must
have been in league with some of those
gambling hells, and enticed Sydney to his
ruin. Good Heavens ! I shudder to think
what that poor girl must have gone through,
night after night, not knowing where her
husband was or what he was doing, but suspecting
something wrong ! So far as I discovered,
Sydney got away from Buenos Ayres
before he was quite cleared out ; but Thorpe
followed him to Santa Rosa, and finished the
business there. No wonder I could not get
Sydney to be open with me the night we
were talking together,  it would have been
rather hot to make such a confession as his
must have been. When he returned to Santa
Rosa, it was just a piece of good luck that
he did not make away with himself; he appears
to have been in a desperate state, and of

course, not caring to stay there, he seized the
first chance to get away. What will become
of him I cannot think ; we can only write ; he
may never get the letters, and if he does it
is ten to one if he attends to them. Should
he return here I don't know what can be
done. I hardly think after this fiasco that I
could even recommend Mr. Beaumont and his
father to give him a fresh start. 'Tis a bad
business altogether."

Yes, it was a bad business, and George
Ramsay went about with a graver, more
troubled face than he had ever worn before.

A DARKSOME TI>!E.

The days grew into weeks, the weeks into
months, and Sydney returned not to the
Estancia Mercedes. Kate wrote to him, and
George also ; but it was impossible to tell for
certain whether the letters ever reached their
destination ; and at all events no answer was
received.

For his part, George lost no time in writing
a full account of all that had happened to Mr.
Beaumont ; and by the end of October letters
came in return, both to George and Kate.
In these Mr. Beaumont most strongly urged
her to return and make his house once more
her home. Kate shed many tears over her
letter ; for a warmth of feeling was manifested
in its pages which previous experience had
hardly taught her to expect. But she did not

know how deeply he had blamed himself for
the readiness with which he had consented to
her marriage, and that in order to throw off an
unwelcome responsibility. Thus she censured
herself for a want of appreciation, and an
impatience in expecting too soon to find the
way to his heart. Mr. Beaumont's letter to
George Ramsay was of a very different character,
and heaped opprobrium upon Sydney.
He also begged George to use authority as
well as persuasion, and insist on Kate's return.
*you say yourself," he wrote, "that Ferrars
has declared that her life shall be no more
darkened by him. Take him at his word, and
let us finish once for all with what has proved
to be a most ill-fated marriage."

But when George came to talk the matter
over with Kate, he found that, although
touched to the heart by her uncle's kindness,
she was by no means disposed to adopt his
views.

'* No one could blame you, Kate, if you
went," said George, when he had broached
the subject. " Sydney himself has told you
to go."

Kate looked at him with eyes that had grown

large and hollow ; and her lips quivered as she
replied, 

'* If I am a trouble to you, and you would
rather not keep me here, I suppose that I must
go ; but I have thought about it a great deal,
and I know that neither he nor any one else
can free me from my duty as a wife. I am
happy enough now ; but if I went away and
tried to forget all I should only be ten times
more miserable."

*' My dear Kate," George answered, in his
kind and hearty manner, " don't mention
another word about being a trouble to us.,
Stay here for ever if you will  we shall only
be too glad. But it was for yourself I was
thinking; your uncle offers you a pleasant
home, where you would be free from every
care, and have more to divert your thoughts
from your own troubles than is possible in a
quiet place like this."

Kate burst into tears.

*' Oh, George ! I know I can trust to you 
tell me what you really think that I ought todo?"


George paused a moment in deep thought
before he answered this appeal. He held very

Strong and deeply rooted opinions about the
duties of wives and husbands ; and, much ashe
lamented the blight cast over Kate's life by
her union with such a man as Sydney, yet, in
his honest, simple heart, he believed that this
great trouble had been ordained by One whose
ways are not as man's, and therefore that she
had no right to flee from a burden so imposed.
The only hope that he could see of Sydney's
reformation lay in his wife; audit seemed to
him that her plain duty was never, of her own
free will, to desert the man she had sworn to
love and obey. And so he could find no ready
arguments with which to urge Mr. Beaumont's
wishes.

*' Honestly, Kate, I think with you. It
seems to me that your duty is to remain here
as long as the least hope exists of Sydney's
return''

Kate remained then at Mercedes ; and even
had it been decided otherwise, her health
rendered it doubtful whether she could undertake
a long sea voyage. After recovering
from the first shock of Sydney's desertion, she
only rallied to a certain point, and there stood
still. Her face had grown pale and thin. She

was listless and easily tired ; able to do little
more than sit out in the garden, or occasionally
take charge of the children. Oftentimes Mary
felt very anxious about her; and sadly
wondered if she would ever grow well and
strong again. Truly Sydney's conduct had
caused many hearts to ache at one time or
another !

Among the rest, Keziah was much troubled
about her young mistress ; the more so, because
she could not throw off a feeling of
having done wrong in not repeating the conversation
accidentally overheard in the hotel
at Buenos Ayres. For a long time she brooded
over this in silence ; but one evening Mrs.
Ramsay coming unexpectedly into the nursery
discovered her in tears. At first she was
minded to take no notice, for she had heard
Keziah' s history, and thought that the girl was
weeping over her past troubles. But then she
remembered how far Keziah was removed from
old friends, and so turned back instead of
leaving the room, and asked kindly, 

*' Are you troubled about anything you can
tell to me, Keziah ? "

Then Keziah unburdened herself gladly

enough of the weight upon her mind ; and her
cowardice, as she called it, in not venturing to
repeat the conversation at once to her mistress,
when the knowledge it conveyed might have
done some good. Mrs. Ramsay listened attentively,
and then thought for a few minutes.

** It is a difficult matter to judge what would
have been best for you to do," she said at last;
*' but assuredly you may feel this consolation
it would have been of no avail had you told
all to my sister. I know from her own lips
that she spoke to him of other things, and he
was ready enough with promises which he
never kept ; and had she known that he was
a gambler It would have been just the same.
Perhaps, on the whole, you spared her pain
by saying nothing about it ; painful scenes
might have occurred between her and Mr.
Ferrars, and all to no good end. But promise
me, Keziah, that you will never let your
mistress know what you have now told me ;
it might give rise to useless regrets ; and,
poor thing ! she has already enough to bear."

*' Indeed she has, ma'am ; and she shall
never hear a word from my lips to make it
worse. Ah ! if you could have seen her as

she was at Belton," continued the girl, eagerly,
* such a weary long time ago it seems now
you would feel sorrier still for the change.
I used to be up at the rectory ofttimes, helping
Mrs. Vale to sew ; and it did one's heart
good to see any one so bright and gay as she
was then. You never saw her like that, half
the spirit was gone out of her when we came
here. Many of us used to say that she was
just like a sunbeam ; and for all her fun and
laughter there was none more ready with a
tear and sympathizing word when any was in
trouble. Poor dear young lady ! it is bad to
see her now."

*' It is indeed," said Mrs. Ramsay.

*' We used to talk sometimes in the village,"
continued Keziah, meditatively, ** that she
would marry Mr. North ; he was always at the
rectory."

** Would to heaven that she had!" exclaimed
Mrs. Ramsay. " He would have made her a
good husband, I am sure, if he is like what he
was as a boy."

'* There is no better gentleman anywhere,
ma'am, than Mr. North. Ah!" added poor
Keziah, with a sigh, " if all men, high or

low, were like him and Mr. Ramsay, there
would be fewer women with aching hearts."
"There would indeed," agreed Mrs. Ramsay,
with a sympathizing glance, for she saw
that Keziah was thinking of another who had
failed to be true. Then she went away, and
Keziah dried her eyes, and felt happier now
that Mrs. Ramsay knew all, and yet laid no
blame at her door for anything that had
followed. And if devotion to the two ladies'
every wish and want could atone for what she
still regretted, her service to them ought
surely to have paid the debt.

And all this time it was no wonder that Kate
had grown thin and pale; for in her heart a
war of rebellion against her lot was raging day
by day. She knew as well as any one could
tell her that this was wrong, and many times
said so to herself during the waking hours.
But youth seems made for joy and hope, and
to have these cut off  to look forward to a
long life in which it seemed that little short
of a miracle could restore happiness and confidence
between herself and husband  was
hard indeed. Then the memory would come
of Barbara's wild, unexplained words ; and a

horrible suspicion began to force itself upon
her that the girl had overheard something
which led her to believe that Sydney was
about to marry her for the sake of the money
which she would bring. And this thought
gave rise to a bitter sense of wrong, even
more poignant than that caused by his conduct
since their marriage. If he truly loved her,
she felt that she could forgive him much ; but
if his very professions of love had been a deceit
from the first!  the thought made her blood
boil with indignation, and she almost hated
instead of loved.

Such ideas as these rose with her in the
morning, and all the day long she would
wrestle and strive against them ; sometimes
with partial success, and a gentler, more submissive
frame of mind would be attained ; but
never for long together, and next day she
would go through all again, until from very
weariness she longed to be at rest in ari early
grave, like her mother. And then she
would perceive how her troubles saddened
Mary, and would try to shake them off,
forcing herself to appear light-hearted, with
the inevitable result that her efforts were unsuccessful,

and ended in hysterical attacks,
painful alike to those about her and herself.

It was November, and nigh summer in those
latitudes of the southern hemisphere where
winter is always short and summer long. At
intervals, between the heavy rains, the plains
became dry and dusty, and glared under the
heat of a semi-tropical sun. And marvel it
was how the flocks of sheep found herbage
sufficient to support life, until rain came once
more to throw a fresh robe of green over
the heated soil. This hot Sunday afternoon
scarcely a breath of air was stirring, and the
want of welcome showers had left the gardens
more than ever like an oasis in the desert;
their poplars and willows being the only refreshing
green on which the eye could rest
for miles around. The bright blue tint had
left the sky, absorbed in the heated rays of
a glaring sun ; and a canopy of dazzling grey
hung over the brown and burnt-up earth.

The house was hot and stifling, and in
search of a cooler spot, Kate wandered to a
favourite nook under the trees, looking out
upon the plains. She carried a volume in her
hand with the intention of reading ; and,

VOL. II. 13

sitting down, opened it upon her lap. But
she failed to fix her thoughts upon the text,
and covering her face with both hands gave
the rein to memory. George Ramsay had
been reading the Church service to the
assembled household ; and with the familiar
words still sounding in her ears, the memories
they awakened carried her back to Belton.
Again she could hear the bells ringing out
gladly from the old church-tower, and calling
the villagers to worship. Again, while the
bells were chiming, she was walking with her
father across the grassy graveyard to the
church. Then she was sitting in the chancel
amidst the village choir of boys and girls ;
and the bells had dropped to the few last
single strokes. She could see Mrs. Stephens
at the organ, and hear the strains of the
voluntary as her father advanced with slow
tread to take his place ; she saw the venerable
head bowed down in prayer, and heard the
loved voice once more as it read the opening
words of the evening service. Then looking
down the nave she could see it as it used to
be, Sunday after Sunday,  the square pew
beyond the reading-desk with Roger North's

broad shoulders and frank and honest face
appearing above the high, dark-oak partition ;
and in the further corner Mrs. North, grave
and stern, with no answering look or smile for
her ; and beyond many a familiar face  clear
in their every detail. And all the while, the
bells seemed ringing a soft accompaniment to
these visions of the past.

Suddenly a cry in childish, treble tones
vibrated on her ear  '' Aunt Kate, Aunt Kate,
where are you? Mamma wants you'' Kate
started violently, and raised her head  that
was no voice belonging to Belton  none had
ever called her Aunt Kate there. Then the
sharp contrast between the past and the
present came upon her, and she bowed her
face upon her hands with a bitter cry of
anguish, recalling, only too vividly, what she
was and where  a deserted wife in a foreign
land!

But it was not to be ever thus. In answer
to her prayers, and maybe to those of others
not less fervent,  if the cross could not be
removed at least she was to receive strength
to bear its weight. How hard and cold her
heart felt, all this time, none but herself could

tell ; but she had a lesson to learn, and by
degrees she learnt it. She had looked to
find a perfect happiness in human love, and
was now taught to seek true joy, not only here,
but also from above. Her anger against
Sydney died gradually away, to be replaced
by tender pity. The thoughts of wild rebellion
against her lot faded before a clearer
insight into the love which ends all pain.
And so she realized, although perhaps imperfectly,
the truth of a favourite hymn, which
told her that 

Deep in the heart of pain God's hand hath set

A hidden rest and bliss ;
Take as His gift the pain, the gift brings yet

A truer happiness;
God's voice speaks through it all, the high behest

That bids His people enter into rest."

The struggle was ended ; Kate bowed her
head to the chastening rod, and found in
submission  peace.

LEAD, KINDLY LIGHT.

The short afternoon of a raw December day
was rapidly closing in over the smoky town
of Hammerton. A somewhat steep, short
thoroughfare leads from its principal street
to its large and busy railway-station ; and
all day long an unending stream of people
had passed through it, backwards and forwards,
between the station and the street.
But now the stream was inclined to flow
towards the station ; for many of the business
men in Hammerton had their homes in the
suburbs, or country round.

Many a great clock in church-tower or
public building had struck the hour of four,
when a broad-shouldered, pleasant-faced man
was wending his way, with long and swinging
steps, towards the station. One glance was
sufficient to show that he was no inhabitant

of towns, for he bore most unmistakably the
traces which are left by an open air and
country life. A strong frame and elastic tread
told of vigorous health ; and his cheek, though
bronzed by exposure to wind and sun, had
a freshness which can only be preserved by
early hours and active habits. He was evidently
somewhat pressed for time ; and once
in the station turned neither to right nor left,
but hurried along the foot-bridge which,
high-raised above them, connected the many
platforms. In another moment he descended
a flight of steps, and reached one of the
platforms, alongside which a train was standing,
 its engine with steam escaping from its
safety-valve, all ready to depart. As he
passed the hindermost third-class carriage
his steps were arrested by an outstretched
arm and an eager voice.

*' Hollo ! North, is that you ? "

Roger North turned his head towards the
speaker ; then a bright smile of recognition
overspread his face.

*' Why, Leslie ! where do you come from ? "

*' If you are going by this train, old fellow,
jump in here and Fll tell you," replied the

Other. " We are off In a moment, and there
is no law to prevent your first-class ticket
from being available here, though my third-class
won't take me with you."

Roger sprang in, and the train moved on  
first into a dark tunnel, and then not out into
the fair country, but through labyrinths of
mean houses and vast workshops, the teeming
hives of industry.

The friends sat face to face, with no other
passenger in the same division of the carriage.
His dress showed Leslie to be a clergyman.
He did not look much over thirty ; and his
clean-shaven face was of a manly, high-bred
character, with broad and lofty brow, and
deep and earnest eyes. When he smiled, his
smile was attractive, though the lines of his
mouth were decidedly firm, as were those of
the square chin.

' What lucky chance has brought you here,
Leslie?" asked Roger. ** I have heard
nothing of you for years, and believed that
you had fulfilled your intention of seeking
missionary work."

The bright smile faded a little from Leslie's
face.

** Yes, that used to be my dream in the old
Oxford days ; but it was not to be. My
mother died just at the time of my ordination ;
and then I found it would break my old father's
heart if I left him. He was shattered in mind
and body by his loss ; and as soon as I was
in priest's orders there was nothing for it but
to go home and act as his curate ; and there I
remained until two months ago. It was very
pleasant, for I was made much of by villagers
who had known me from my birth, and was
spoiled by my father and six sisters ; but it
was not exactly work of the kind that we two
used to talk of sometimes."

"But you have left home now?" asked
Roger, as he paused.

Yes  I cannot leave England so long as
my father lives, and we have come to a compromise.
One of my sisters has lately married
a clergyman. He is a capital fellow, and just
suited to take my place at home. I had seen
an advertisement for many weeks running in
the Guardian, stating that an incumbent was
wanted for a church near here. I came to
have a look ; found that the place rather
closely resembled heathendom in many ways,

and so have been installed there these two
months."

* Where Is the exact locality?" Inquired
Roger.

** Primrose Hill, where we shall soon arrive;
and If you have never before remarked the
spot particularly, you will see on inspection
that It is as unlike my Devonshire home or
the islands in the Southern Seas as anything
well can be. The name is the only thing
about It which reminds one that there is aught
In nature that Is not black and drear."

** I believe It was fair country once, Leslie ;
but the name Is the only relic of what it
was."

*' You live near here, don't you? " Inquired
Leslie, in his turn.

*eyes, only a few miles beyond the boundaries
of the Black Country. You must come
and see me, old fellow, whenever you want
a whiff of country air."

** I have had thoughts of looking you up
already, but have been terribly busy ever since
I settled down; and now Christmas will be
here In a fortnight. After that, If I can find
a day, there Is nothing I should like better.

But perhaps you could come to Primrose Hill
before then ? "

*' No doubt I could," replied Roger, heartily.

*scan you come one day next week?  say
Thursday. There's nothing like striking while
the iron's hot  an appropriate simile, eh,
North ? ' concluded Leslie, as he glanced
through the window at one of the big
workshops, where men, wielding ponderous
hammers, formed a weird grouping round
furnaces blazing redly in the growing darkness.


' Thursday let it be. I will come in time
for your midday meal ; and I am ashamed to
say that you will have plenty to show me,
for I have lived nearly all my life within easy
reach of, but have never yet explored, the
mysteries of the place."

*' So much the better," replied Leslie,
laughing. " I love the post of showman, and
feel quite a pride in my surroundings  far
more than I ever did in our Devonshire parish,
where there was nothing to be done but to
maintain the perfect order which had reigned
from time immemorial ; or perhaps to try and
keep up with the times a little, and not goto

sleep altogether. No chance of going to
sleep here, for want of material to work
upon ! "

A little more talk between the friends, and
Primrose Hill was reached ; and during the
rest of the short, dark journey and the five-mile
drive home, Roger found ample time for
solitary musings on subjects which had risen
to his mind through this chance meeting with
an old college friend. He and Leslie had been
fairly intimate in Oxford days ; a mutual liking
and respect had always drawn them together ;
and Roger had often regretted that he had not
made still further opportunities for cultivating
Leslie's friendship. But while Leslie was
devoted heart and soul to his theological and
linguistic studies, and was stirred by enthusiastic
visions of mission work in the future,
Roger's genial nature made him a man of
many friends, and his keen enjoyment of life
led him to spend a great portion of his time in
athletic sports. And so their paths somewhat
diverged, nor were they thrown together unless
Roger deliberately sought out Leslie, and
beguiled him to join in some long ramble,
or, if in summer time, to take a row upon the

river. Often on such occasions their conversation
would turn to life's more serious
problems.

With homes so wide apart they had lost
sight of each other after the close of their
college days ; and, knowing nothing of Leslie's
family affairs, Roger believed him to have
followed the bent of his youthful dreams. But
now he was truly pleased that they had met
again ; and it set him thinking  thinking of
many things. Those old talks with Leslie had,
at the time, raised in his own breast a longing
to enter upon some great work of usefulness ;
on something tangible, something real, that
would leave a mark when his day was ended.
And now, as he communed with himself, he
asked, *' What had his thirty-two years of life
to show ? " He had, indeed, endeavoured to
be a faithful son, and perform all the duties
that his station demanded. But in this there
had been no perceptible effort or self-denial ;
in fact the harder task, with a man of his
nature, would have been to act otherwise. His
means had always been more than ample to
satisfy his simple tastes, and left a margin
ready for any extra calls, so that he never felt

the loss of what he yearly gave away. Thus
it seemed to him that his life had been an easy,
self-pleasing one. For the simple-hearted
fellow never considered the trials which he had
borne so patiently  such as his mother's want
of sympathy  trials, which a more morbid and
introspective nature might have greatly magnified.
There was, indeed, the shadow which
had fallen upon him this last year; but that,
he thought, ought to act rather as an incentive
to his energies. Yes ! if he had suffered, it
should not be in vain. At least some other
members of suffering humanity should be the
better and happier for what his pain had
taught ; and while yet in the heyday of manhood
he would find some useful work to do.
With humility, he compared himself to Bernard
Leslie, who, he could see from their short conversation,
had never abandoned the ideal of his
youth, but had only laid it aside in compliance
with the prior claims of an aged and afflicted
parent, and, like a good soldier, stood ready
to obey the call when it came and go forth to
fight the battle for which he had so carefully
prepared himself.

These thoughts, and such as these, followed

Roger home, and filled his mind as he sat that
evening with his mother.

Mother and son were alone together, as
indeed they usually were ; for the visitors
whom Mrs. North cared to entertain were not
many. Roger had his friends occasionally,
but of late those had not been very numerous.

Mrs. North secretly wondered what caused
her son's attention to wander so often from his
paper, but she did not ask. And though in
the habit of speaking openly enough of all the
events of the day, the meeting with his old friend
had struck some deep chords, and Roger did not
allude to it  why, he could hardly have told.

Mrs. North had completely recovered from
the illness of the preceding year, and had resumed
all her old active habits. Cottage
visiting, parish clubs, garden, and house were
diligently attended to, as of yore. She might
perhaps guard a little more carefully against
exposure to inclement weather, but that was
all. And to outward seeming the daily tenor
of their joint lives, and their relations to one
another, were exactly what they had been
eighteen months before.

The next day, when Roger entered the

breakfast-room, he found his mother reading
letter brought by the morning's post. And
before they concluded the meal she spoke of
its contents.

** Roger, this letter," laying her hand upon it,
** is from my sister. She and Sir John wish
very much that we should spend Christmas
with them at Wavertree Court. Have you
anything to say against the plan?"

'eyes, mother, most certainly I have," he
replied, with decision. ** We were absent
from home last Christmas, and I like to be
here among our own people. They would be
much disappointed, I feel sure, were we to be
absent again this year."

*ewe are here so near the time that we
could make the fullest preparations for everything
being conducted as usual," remarked
Mrs. North.

*' But that would not be the same as our
actual presence," answered her son. *No,
mother," he added, with his pleasant, sunny
smile, " you must make the best apologies you
can to my aunt, and put it to her that we,
like themselves, have our duties at home at
Christmas time."

*' I would say no more, Roger," pursued his
mother, after a pause, *' if you had gone to
Annick Castle as usual in August ; but since
you then preferred to take a solitary fishing
ramble in Norway, I do not doubt but that
your uncle and aunt will be seriously offended
by a second refusal ; especially as you never
went near them in London during the season."

** Why, mother, I dined there with you."

* You know I meant more than that," said
Mrs. North, visibly annoyed. ** It really looks
as if you have some special reason for avoiding
them."

Roger was silent. His mother looked at
him keenly, and then went on, " It seems tome
quite a slight upon your cousin also, when
you had previously made so much of her. I
do not even like to ask her here, as you treat
her so cavalierly."

''I am glad that you have not asked her,"
said Roger, simply ; and he rose from the table,
and went to stand on the hearth-rug with his
eyes fixed on the bright, crackling oak logs.

For a moment amazement tied Mrs. North's
tongue. Then a tinge of colour mounted to
her pale cheek, and she said sharply, 

** What do you mean, Roger? "

He turned round, and faced her with his
truthful eyes.

If you wish to know, I will tell you. It
came to my knowledge in the spring  no
matter how "  sand a slight twinge as of pain
passed over his countenance  " that some kind
gossips had circulated a story of my engagement
to Constance. For her sake, I did not
care to create a fuss and a scandal by openly
giving the lie to this report. So it seemed tome
the best and simplest plan to let it die a
natural death by keeping out of her way,
until she is either engaged or married."

The colour faded from Mrs. North's cheek
as she listened, and left her, perhaps, a shade
paler than usual. She looked away for a
moment, and then rather suddenly turned
towards him, and spoke in her usual calm,
measured manner.

** It seems to me, Roger, that there was
yet another course for an honourable man to
pursue."

He flushed crimson, and it was his turn to
ask, 

What do you mean, mother? "

VOL. II. 14

** Has it never occurred to you, that if your
warmth of manner so far deceived outsiders
your cousin herself may have been led to
believe that you regarded her with more than
cousinly affection ? "

Constance knows better  I never misled
her, nor can I conceive how any one else
could have imagined such a thing," he exclaimed,
somewhat hotly.

*your cousin has had many offers, and
has refused them all. Can you tell me
the reason ? ''

*No, I cannot, unless she is so ambitious
that a sufficiently big gun has not yet turned
up. But most assuredly, she is not pining forme."


"How can you tell, Roger? You have
never seen her for more than a year, except
on that one evening at dinner. And as to
ambition, you do Constance an injustice; I
know from your aunt that she has had offers
to satisfy the most aspiring : I must tell you
plainly that I, your mother, believed your
feelings for her were warmer than those of
a cousin, until you undeceived me by stating
your preference for another ; so why not she?"

Roger paced rapidly across the room and
back.

" Mother ! what do you mean  what would
you have me to do ? "

"At least ascertain from Constance what
are her feelings towards you," said Mrs. North,
with a ring of triumph in her tone.

" How could I insult her by doing that,
unless I purposed asking her to be my wife ? ''
exclaimed Roger.

'* That is what I mean. It is the only
reparation that you can make ; " and Mrs.
North waited for his answer, outwardly calm
and collected, but inwardly with every nerve
trembling with excitement.

The answer did not come immediately.
He walked to the window.

She could not see his face, for his back was
towards her ; and a silence of some minutes
ensued. The mother had shot the last arrow
in her quiver. Had it hit the mark ?

At length he turned. There was a softened
light in his eyes  a tender though serious
smile about his lips, and for an instant Mrs.
North believed that she had gained her end.
But it was for an instant only.

** Mother, it is useless to speak of this anymore.
If  most unwittingly on my part  I
have wronged Constance by deceiving her as
to my real feelings, I certainly will not do her
the far greater wrong of proposing to marry
her without love*'

' If you cannot love a beautiful girl like
her, whom can you love?" exclaimed Mrs.
North, losing for once her calm. *' Do you
never mean to marry ? And all because of
a fancy for a girl who preferred a worthless
man to you. Am I never to see my children's
children?"

Roger's expression grew graver ; and perhaps
a shade sterner.

"I have loved once and for all," he said.
*the woman I loved has been denied to me.
1 hope that I do not repine at my lot, though the
struggle was hard for a time." He paused,
and turned again towards the window. A look
came into his face as though he saw afar off,
beyond the four walls of the room, beyond
the bright world of landscape and sky on which
he gazed. And then he added, quietly, *' I
believe I have even come to see that it is
best that the happiness which appeared for a

short time almost within my grasp has been
denied."

Mrs. North listened in silence, with a growing
feeling that to combat her son's decision
would be worse than useless.

Then Roger came to her side, and laid a
hand affectionately upon her shoulder.

'' Mother dear, I tell you this that you may
not be unhappy about me ; for I fancy you
have fretted sometimes to think that I might
never have wife or children of my own. And
I wish you to feel assured that I am content
and happy not only in my life, but in your love
and care for me. But do not ask me to marry
any other woman ; such a marriage could only
end in misery to both." Then in a lighter tone
he added, "We must have Charlie oftener
about the place. You must learn to look upon
him as a younger son, or grandson if you
will."

Mrs. North was touched. But a constant
habit of reserve rendered it actual pain to show
her feelings, and she allowed Roger to bend
and kiss her forehead without revealing what
she felt. And then he left the room, and she
went among the household as usual. Only

when all was ordered according to rule did
she allow herself to sit down in the morning-room,
and think over what had passed.
And what were her real feelings ?

In the first place, she knew that her long-cherished
dream was at an end  for ever. All
her plans for bringing Roger and Constance
together  all she had done to further those
plans, even the departure from strict truthfulness
of which she had been guilty  had been
of no avail. Her eyes were opened to see
that pliant as Roger had always proved in
unimportant matters, his was not the
pliancy of a weak nature ; and that where he
was once resolved no power on earth could
move him, any more than it could move
herself. She had long held the belief that
patience only was needed, and that in the
end her wish would triumph. This belief had,
indeed, been severely shaken when Roger left
Cannes with the purpose of asking Kate to
be his wife. But on hearing of Kate's engagement,
her secret rejoicing had been great.
She believed once more that it was only a
question of time, and all would go well. So
she had waited patiently, and never before

to-day had she allowed to pass her lips any
allusion to the subject on which her thoughts
so constantly dwelt. And now she had tried
the argument to which she had believed he
must yield, forming her judgment from a
one-sided view of his character. But it had
failed to move him.

A weary feeling of disappointment was
settling on her mind; and though she
refused to listen to its voice, was there not
some self-reproach for having done her utmost
to thwart the marriage to which Roger's heart
inclined ? And strange as it may sound, this
stern, cold woman loved her son with a
passionate, nay, almost idolizing love. He
was the one object for which she lived, the
untiring mainspring of all her thoughts and
actions. Roger, though fully believing in
his mother's love, had no idea of how it
absorbed her being. But hers was an exacting,
jealous love, only to be satisfied by its object
being happy in the way that she thought
best.

Mrs. North was a woman who had been
disappointed in marriage. She would have
bowed her strong will to a superior mind, and

would have been all the happier. But her
love for her husband soon became of a half
pitying kind ; and hers had been the ruling
spirit through circumstances which needed
strength of mind. All her woman's pride in
the objects of her love concentrated itself upon
her three sons. Two were taken in their
prime ; and the losses, which should have
softened, seemed rather to have turned her to
a stone. She suppressed all outward show of
affection for Roger, as if fearful lest a jealous
Providence would rob her of him too, were she
to manifest the depth of her maternal feelings.
And so, poor woman ! she cheated herself of
the happiness that she might have enjoyed.
And when the question of his marriage rose,
consuming jealousy stepped in, and all the
stronger for her self repression. She believed
that she could submit to see him happy with
a wife of her choosing; but knew full well,
by her feelings towards Kate, that she could
not endure to see his love lavished upon a
wife of his own election. And all the time
this jealous mother cherished the delusion
that she could judge better for her son than
he for himself, and thus justified to conscience

words and acts to which she would have
scorned to stoop in other matters.

And now, sitting with her face looking grey
in the quiet light of a December sun, a great
fear possessed her lest Roger should discover
how far she had aided in spreading the report
of his engagement; and in influencing, although
it might be indirectly, Kate's hasty marriage.
Might not that knowledge cause a breach
between them deeper far and wider than any
wifely influence could have done ?

ROGER VISITS MRS. STEPHENS.

One afternoon, later in the week, Roger
looked into his mother's sitting-room. He
carried a gun in his hand, and a cartridge
bag was slung over his shoulder. Mrs. North
sat at her writing-table.

*' Mother," he said, without advancing
further than the door, 'is your larder well
supplied with game ? "

Mrs. North laid down her pen, and looked up.

*' Yes, we have already more than we want."

** Then I will take anything that I knockdown
this afternoon to Mrs. Stephens."

You keep her larder as well supplied as
our own," remarked Mrs. North, not looking
over well pleased. " I should think the game
would be more welcome at the rectory, with
the large family there."

** Never fear, mother, I'll take care that the
rector has his tithes. I am going more for
the walk than anything else this afternoon ;
and I don't expect that any one's larder will
be over-stocked with to-day's contribution,"
and Roger turned to leave the room.

'' Stay, Roger," said Mrs. North, *' I have
a word to say to you."

*' Well ? " and he waited in the doorway.

Mrs. North frowned slightly.

"I cannot speak to you there; pray shut
the door, and come nearer."

Roger obeyed.

*' Something to do with your letters, eh,
mother? "

"Yes, I am about to answer your aunt's
letter. Have you finally decided to refuse her
invitation for Christmas? "

Certainly," replied Roger, with no sign
of wavering in his tone.

His mother gave one quick, keen glance
at his face ; then drew her lips together, and
after a moment added, 

** Have you any message ? "

*just my good wishes for the season,
nothing more. You will make the refusal as

pleasant as you can, won't you, mother ? I
am most sorry that you are vexed," he added,
regretfully.

*that, at least, is of no consequence''
replied Mrs. North ; " but before you go tell
me if you adhere to your intention of asking
Charlie North to come here for part of his
holidays ? "

** Yes, if you have no objection. I mean to
write tomorrow, and ask him for any day
after Christmas. His mother will want him
at home for Christmas Day I expect. But I
do not wish him to come here if it will be
any trouble to you."

"" I leave you to act as you think best in the
matter," answered Mrs. North. '* Only I wish
to know positively what your intentions are ;
and since you have decided to ask him, I shall
write to Agatha Blythe, and invite her to
come at the same time. She will take the
trouble of looking after the boy from off my
hands."

I shall be delighted to see Agatha," said
Roger, heartily. Then he checked a little
sigh of disappointment ; for he had hoped his
mother would take an interest in the lad, and

this did not sound very promising. 'ris that
all, mother? "

*' Yes, I will not detain you any longer," and
Mrs. North resumed her pen. Roger looked
at her wistfully, which she did not notice, and
then walked quietly away.

A few minutes more, and he was whistling
for his dogs  two handsome spaniels, which
came bounding up, barking and wild with
delight at the sight of a gun.

Down, Fan  down, Banshee ! you shall
have a walk at all events, old girls ; it's getting
late, we must waste no more time ; " and
Roger strode rapidly across the park ; the
spaniels close at his heels, and then careering
madly round to return once more, obedient
to his lightest call.

It was a mild December day  one which
seems to belie all the attributes of winter, and
leads man to expect the sights and scents of
spring  bursting buds, fragrant primroses,
and violets hidden beneath their sheltering
leaves. The robins were rejoicing in the sunshine,
warbling glad songs as though about
to burst their quivering, ruddy breasts. Roger
was a lover of nature in all its forms ; and his

mood soon grew into harmony with the joy
and brightness of the day. Why should he be
sad in the midst of so much that was fair and
gladsome ? Why should he not respond to
the solace that was offered ? or why be less
thankful and grateful than those little feathered
songsters ?

And he was thankful.

He soon passed beyond the boundaries of
the park ; then crossed a field or two ; and,
keeping the spaniels close at heel, plunged
into a narrow path leading through an oak
wood.

The wintry aspect of the wood gave it a
beauty more solemn, but not less perfect in its
way, than the attractive loveliness of spring.
The rugged branches, with here and there a
withered leaf that the gales of winter had not
torn off, stood in bold relief against the light
blue sky. Underfoot, the mossy carpet was
almost hidden by the fallen leaves, layer upon
layer, shining and damp with the moisture
that the pale December sunshine had failed
to disperse. Here and there on tangled
bramble lingered a brighter leaf where,
sheltered from exposure to the nipping frost,

it Still retained its autumn tint of rose or
gold.

A sharp whirr, and a pheasant flew across
the narrow opening  the crack of a gun, a
puff of smoke, and it fell crashing through the
branches down among the matted undergrowth.
Quick as thought the spaniels were tearing
from their master's side to find the fallen bird.

When the sun dipped out of sight, leaving
his red track in the western sky, Roger
carried two pheasants and a solitary partridge
which the dogs had put up in a hedge-row
within easy shot. He was not more than a
mile from the Stephens' house, and, warned by
the setting sun that time was passing, made
his way thither.

In the valley at his feet lay the house,
embowered in trees, the grey smoke ascending
from its quaint old chimneys in tall columns,
which the still air turned not from their
straight 'and upward course.

Beyond, the tapering spire of Belton church
rose high above all other objects.  And northwards,
above the low range of hills, shone in
the sky another red glow which was not left
by the setting sun, but came from those

furnaces beyond the hills, which knew no restful
night. And Roger, when he saw it, thought
once more of Bernard Leslie and his hard-worked
life.

A walk of less than a quarter of an hour
brought him to the house. The warm light of
the fire, seen through the windows, promised
a cheerful welcome ; and waiving ceremony,
Roger opened the hall door and stepped inside.
Mrs. Stephens had heard the dogs
barking, and came from the sitting-room at
the same moment.

*' Ah ! Roger, I thought it must be you."

*'I have brought you my afternoon's bag,
Mrs. Stephens ; and, in return, shall ask fora
cup of tea," said Roger, laying down his gun.

'* By all means," she responded; and then,
*eon hospitable thoughts intent," hastened to
ring the bell.

'* I am quite ashamed to take so much game
from you, Roger," she added. " You brought
me a good supply only last week. Not but
what it is always very welcome ; and some of
the poor sick folk in the village would miss
many a tit-bit if you did not keep me so well
supplied."

** I know that," said Roger, with a pleasant
smile. ** Perhaps I should not be so generous
otherwise."

Mrs. Stephens laughed ; and then made him
sit down in one of her most comfortable armchairs.


There was something in the atmosphere of
the cosy room, and in the aspect of the cheery
little lady, which made the most taciturn of her
friends inclined to unbend when they came
under their combined influences. Roger, at
all events, was not one to steel himself against
them. To him, perhaps, the fireside talk was
all the pleasant because he did not often
enjoy the like at home.

A few remarks on village matters occupied
the time until tea was brought. Then Mrs.
Stephens only waited for the door to close behind
Susan's retreating figure before she said, 

** I am particularly glad that you have come
this afternoon, because I received a letter from
Kate yesterday, and I want to relieve my mind
by talking to you about it. I can get no
sympathy from the Major ; he only says that
when once I take a prejudice I am ready to
fancy anything."

VOL. II, 15

Roger took the cup which Mrs. Stephens
was offering, and remained silent.

Kate very often formed the subject of their
conversations. Roger had become accustomed
to this, and could speak of her quite calmly to
Mrs. Stephens, as if he had been only the old
friend, with not a thought of anything beyond.
Mrs. Stephens had adopted the habit because,
she argued, " If a man has loved a woman
who marries somebody else, the worst he can
do for his own peace is to wrap up her
memory in silver paper. Let him speak of
her openly and naturally, and he will soon
learn to regard her as he should  with a
wholesome brotherly affection, just tinged with
the romance of what might have been. There
is not the least chance that his mother will
talk to Roger after this fashion, therefore I
consider it a duty to do so myself."

And Mrs. Stephens acted up to her convictions.
She waited, indeed, until the first
smart of the wound had time to heal, and then
consistently set to work to render it callous 
at least so far as she could. Whenever
opportunity threw her alone with Roger she
talked of Kate and her letters, just as if he

must naturally take a brotherly interest in the
girl who had so long been his constant companion.
And he, in his simplicity, was
completely deceived by this crafty woman,
and verily believed that she had failed to
discover his secret. But he owed her a
greater debt of gratitude than he was aware
of; for her wholesome salve, painful though
it might be when first applied, helped his own
good resolutions.

Therefore it was not the mere mention of
Kate's name which caused his present embarrassment.
Mrs. Stephens knew that well
enough, noted the embarrassment, and drew
her own conclusions, namely, that he knew
more of Kate's affairs than he chose to tell.
The lady possessed a considerable portion of
Eve's failing, and could not resist the endeavour
to extract something from him. So
finding that he remained silent, she continued, 

*' Her letters are most unsatisfactory, they
tell me absolutely nothing. I am quite disappointed
in her powers of letter-writing.
After all the pains I took in superintending
her education in that particular I have reason
to grumble. In return for a long, chatty

letter, I receive an answer of four pages, In
unnecessarily big handwriting, rather after the
style of a child of six years old  ' My dear
so-and-so, I hope you are quite well. Weare
all quite well. I send my love, etc., etc.
And yet, a few years ago, the last time she
went with you and the rector on one of your
fishing expeditions to Wales, she wrote me
capital letters, telling all your doings most
graphically. I had kept one, and took It outlast
night to compare it with her present productions.
The obvious conclusion that I have
arrived at is, that she does not lack the power,
but that she does not want to tell me of her
present life, and I cannot help fearing that
she Is unhappy; " and forgetting all else Mrs.
Stephens' voice dropped to a very genuine
tone of sorrowful sympathy.

Roger sighed  a sigh born of two causes ;
one the memory of those old happy days in
Wales that Mrs. Stephens' words recalled, the
other the thought of how much real sadness
of heart Kate's brief and formal letter to her
old friend might be meant to veil.

Did she tell you nothing at all," he said,
*' about their life, or what they were doing? "

*' Hardly anything," answered Mrs. Stephens,
bristling up again. "Apparently she is still
with the Ramsayss ; but, though she does
not say as much outright, I fancy that fine
husband of hers is not there. No ! depend
upon it, he has been showing the cloven foot
already."

Roger took refuge in silence, and occupied
himself in adjusting the logs upon the hearth.

Mrs. Stephens observed him keenly.

*' I wonder if Mr. Beaumont knows more
than we do ? I declare were I to see him I
should not hesitate to ask. I feel as if I had
a right to know as much as he does."

*' Had you not better write to him, Mrs.
Stephens ? No doubt he would tell you all
you want to know."

** I am anxious," said Mrs. Stephens, wiping
away a tear; ** dreadfully anxious about the
poor, dear child ! "

Then I am sure I would write, if I were
you," said Roger, decidedly. *' He cannot
take offence, knowing you to be a true friend."

I doubt if the Major will allow me," said
Mrs. Stephens, dubiously. " He has a horror
of interfering in other people's private affairs."

*' I am sure that you can persuade him to
take your view of the case," said Roger, with
a smile ; *but that reminds me, where is the
Major''

*' He has gone to the Bearings, for a shooting
party tomorrow."

'* He is a man of many invitations," remarked
Roger; then, as if glad to change
the subject, he said, '* We are going to have
visitors after Christmas."

** Indeed ! who may they be ? "

*' Mine is a small cousin  Charlie North.
He is the only son of my father's youngest
brother, who was rather a scapegrace, and
married beneath him  a good woman enough,
but not over-refined. My people were displeased
at the time, but made it up with him
before my father's death. My uncle died a
few years later, leaving his widow with this
boy and two older girls ; and it seems, as
head of the family, that it is my duty to look
after him a little, and not leave him any
longer entirely to his mother's care. I cannot
interfere with the girls, but I may be able todo
something for the boy."

*' Good fellow  quite right," said Mrs.

Stephens, approvingly. *' But how will Mrs.
North like a boy about the house? and from
your account perhaps rather a rough one."

'that's the cause of our second visitor'*
said Roger, somewhat gravely. "- My mother
is writing to ask Agatha Blythe to come and
help us to tame him."

*' That is good news indeed," said Mrs.
Stephens, warmly. ' I hope she will come;
it is always a treat to see Agatha. She has
not been here for a long while. You had her
with you all last winter at Cannes, and that I
suppose took the place of a visit to the Hall."

** Yes, it is always pleasant to have Agatha
in the house. No one else gets on half so
well with my mother. I wish we could persuade
her to live with us altogether."

*' She will be marrying one of these days,
and then you will have less of her than ever ;
so make hay while the sun shines."

And so they talked on.

I must really go now," said Roger at
length, stretching himself lazily in the comfortable
chair."

Mrs. Stephens laughed.

"- You look like going."

He laughed in reply, shook himself, jumped
up, bade her good-bye, and in a few minutes
was striding homewards, with Fan and Banshee
racing alongside.

Yes, Mrs. Stephens had guessed truly that
he knew far more of Kate's affairs than he
felt at liberty to repeat. Mr. Beaumont had
faithfully kept his promise, and every detail
sent by George Ramsay was known to Roger.
And sorely he grieved over Kate's troubles,
and hard had been the struggle to maintain
any feeling of charity towards Sydney Ferrars.
He knew also that Mr. Beaumont had written
to urge his niece's return to England. Most
likely the very mail which had brought Kate's
letter to Mrs. Stephens had also brought her
reply to Mr. Beaumont ; and Roger would
hear in a day or two at the latest her decision.
But Kate's reserve to Mrs. Stephens looked
either as if she had not made up her mind,
or did not mean to come. He would know
soon ; and meanwhile he honoured her for the
loyalty that could not bend to breathe a word
against her husband even to the old friend
who had been almost as a mother.

The very next morning Mr. Beaumont's

handwriting met Roger's eye as he looked
over his correspondence. He put the letter
in his pocket, for he could not read it with
his mother sitting at the other end of the
table. When breakfast was over he went at
once to the study.

Kate's old Rover lay upon the hearth-rug,
and flopped his tail in greeting as Roger
entered. The old dog was privileged to come
and go as he liked ; but his canine instinct
soon taught him not to venture into the other
sitting-rooms ; and if he so much as caught
sight of Mrs. North he would slink away with
tail between his legs. When Roger sat down,
Rover came and laid his wise old head on
Roger's knee. His wistful eyes seemed to be
asking for news of the merry mistress and
playfellow of days gone by.

'poor old fellow!" said Roger, patting
him; "we are all growing old and grave
now  one, alas! long before her time."

Then he opened the letter, with mingled
feelings of anxiety and expectation. When
he had read to the end, he threw up his head
proudly. "I knew it  I knew it!" he exclaimed,
aloud. Yes, the woman who to him

ranked above all others had not fallen short
of the ideal he had formed  no thought of
self could lure her from her duty to the
husband who had so lamentably failed in
his.

And Roger rejoiced exceedingly ; and
prayed that her faithfulness might meet its
due reward in the return of that husband 
a better and a wiser man.

A CURE IN THE BLACK COUNTRY

Roger did not forget his promised visit to
Leslie. Primrose Hill was within a drive, but
he chose to go by rail, not caring that his
groom should loiter about a public-house for
half a day or more.

It was midday when he alighted at the
Black Country station, which was dingy and
mean enough to be thoroughly in keeping
with its surroundings. Whether the railway
company had bestowed any paint on this
portion of its property since first it was built
might be an open question ; but to the ordinary
observer all was of a uniform smoke-begrimed
tint.

On inquiry, Roger learned that the parsonage
was half-a-mile away ; and, fortified by
such directions as he could obtain, he set out

on his quest. No drearier, less inviting scene
could be imagined than that through which
he passed. In the country, the day was bright
and frosty  here, the cinder roads were damp
and sticky, while the dense atmosphere served
but to keep down the smoke, and create a
dirtier, yellower shade than usual. And the
heavy smoke hung like a pall over strange
and uncouth objects. Chimneys of many
heights and sizes, and machinery of every
form, loomed through the dimness. Everywhere
could be seen great mounds of slag,
or sad canals, whose sluggish course was
crowded by barges with cabins gaily painted.
The streams which had, erewhile, meandered
through fertile meadows, and whispered sweet
songs to their flowery banks, had been diverted
from their native beds, and now with discoloured
and steaming waters added their
quota to the general pollution. And all around
the whirr of machinery, the thud of hammers,
and the roar of furnaces, bewildered the ear
with a force almost as great as that of the
strange and uncouth objects which confused
the sight.

The appearance of the inhabitants was not

more prepossessing than the surroundings
among which their lives were spent. They
were not wanting in size or physique ; but the
men were blackened by work in mine, and
forge, and factory ; the women were mostly
slatternly and bold-visaged, and both sexes
had manners and tongues of the rudest.
Passing among them, who could fail to share
in Roger's feeling, that all honour was due
to those who came from earth's fairer spots
to devote both time and strength, their love
and eloquence, to teach these poor ones to
look upwards and onwards to a brighter and
a purer world ?

When Roger reached the church, he found
it to be an iron building of some size, but
unadorned and ugly as to its exterior. Hard
by stood a house, which he concluded from its
appearance to be the parsonage. It was
blackened by smoke, and dingy like all else ;
but it was divided from the road by a small,
bare plot of ground, surrounded by an iron
railing. As he approached, he noticed that
brighter windows and cleaner blinds gave it a
more inviting aspect than anything he had yet
passed. Then, in answer to his ring, a still

pleasant sight met his eye ; for the door was
opened by a woman who had evidently passed
but a small portion of her fifty years in the
Black Country. None but genuine country
breezes could have ripened her smooth and
shining cheeks until they had become as ruddy
as the ruddiest apple. She was clad in a
scrupulously neat dress of lilac print, with the
whitest of aprons and freshest of caps. Her
first words, spoken with a pure Devonshire
accent, led Roger to surmise that she was some
trusty servant who had followed Leslie from
his western home. Directly she saw Roger,
her rosy face still further brightened.

'* Eh ! sir, you be Mr. North, sure-ly.
Master Leslie he be expecting you ; and I wur
to say he would be back right soon, only he
wur called away for an accident. Come in,
sir, come in ; " and with warm welcome she led
the way to a room on the right of the narrow
passage.

The apartment they entered was comfortable
enough. The dinner cloth was spread on the
centre table, but a writing-desk in the window,
ample book shelves, and two easy chairs,
showed that it was used as a general sitting-room.

Roger was impressed at once with the
feeling that some lady's hand had been at
work in its arrangement, and had left behind
a pleasant homelike air.

*' Master Leslie, he did say I wur to tell you,
sir, you wur to make yourself at home till he
come back," continued the housekeeper. *' Be
there anything I can get you, sir? "

'' Nothing, thank you ; I can amuse myself
very well with some of these books till he
returns."

The housekeeper stirred the lire, and pushed
a chair nearer to the hearth. Then she been
to busy herself about the table. She was
evidently disposed to be talkative.

*' I'm right glad you be come to dinner, sir.
Master Leslie will eat his meal like a Christian
for once. I daresay you wouldn't believe it,
but it be hardly no manner of use making anything
nice for him to eat. If so be I do make
a nice pudding, it be always the same thing.
Oh, Eliza,' he says, * this will just do for a
sick woman I've seen this morning ; ' and
then, let me look as cross as I may, he'll eat
never a bit, but take it to some dirty, shiftless
body that he knows on. And it do vex me ;

for Miss Leslie said, specially, ' Now, Eliza, I
know you be a right good cook, and I trusts to
you to see that my brother has his meals
proper.' "

" You come from Mr. Leslie's home then ? "
inquired Roger.

The housekeeper looked at him as though
almost insulted by the inquiry.

*' I should think I did, sir ! I've known
Master Leslie since he wur a baby. I wur
housemaid at the rectory till I married my
good man  twenty year agone, come next
May day. And when Master Leslie took onto
come here, Miss Leslie comet to me, and
asked me to come along with he ; for she said
she could trust me to look to him well. And
my good man being dead two year, and
Master Leslie having been real good to him
when he wur ill, and me having no chiltern, I
said I'd come. But law ! sir, if I had known
what the blackness of the place wur, I be main
sure I should never have dared."

*' It is very dirty," said Roger, amused by
her expression of supreme disgust.

*' It do be impossible, sir, to keep anything
clean. I tell Master Leslie, I be only waiting

here till he do get married, and then I goes
home."

*' I wonder one of the Miss Lesliess did not
come to keep house for him," remarked Roger.

' Law ! sir, they all be married save Miss
Leslie and Miss Lucy. And Miss Lucy's such
an invalid, always on her back, poor dear ! and
Miss Leslie have enough to do looking after
her and the old master. Miss Leslie come
here along with me to put things a bit straight,
and she left the rest to me. ' Eliza,' she says,
I know you can do it almost as well as
myself, and the cooking better.' You know
sir," the housekeeper continued, confidentially,
*when I wur housemaid at the rectory, the
mistress would often come to me when there
was to be a party, for she always said none of
the cooks could make such pastry. The cook
didn't always like it, but I wur careful not to
put myself forward."

*' I hope we shall have some of your pastry
to-day," said Roger, willing to gratify her.

'deed, sir, and you shall ; but it do not
quite please me ; the butter here be not like
our Devonshire butter. But as I was telling
you, sir, when I talks to Master Leslie that he

VOL. II. 16

//

should get married, he laughs and shakes his
head, and says he couldn't ask a lady to come
to such a place as this, or maybe go beyond
the seas some day among the heathen. But I
do tell him if he do find the right lady, she'll
come fast enough. And now, sir, if you'll
excuse me, I'll go and look to the dinner."

Roger had not long to wait before he heard
the front door open ; and in another minute
Leslie entered with quick step, and warm,
eager manner.

*' This is good of you. North  I am glad to
see you ! I hope my old lady has been taking
care of you."

'* She has been giving me first-rate care and
entertainment," said Roger, laughingly.

** Ah ! her tongue can wag. But she is the
best of women ; and if I must sometimes
submit to a little tyranny, she makes me comfortable
in return. I suppose she has been
telling you of her skill as a cook. It is true
enough in a homely fashion, but do not expect
too much, or you may be disappointed. I
intended to have met you at the station, but
was called away by one of those dreadful
accidents which are constantly occurring. If

men live anywhere with their lives in their
hands, surely they do so here. However, I
have managed so to arrange matters for the
afternoon that I am free to go about with
you, and intend to take you among some of
the wonders and terrors of the place."

*' Agreed," said Roger.

Then, until dinner came, they occupied the
time in looking over photographs of Leslie's
home ; of his father, and sisters, all of whom
evidently held a place very near to his heart.

' I have no photograph of Lucy," he remarked,
turning over the others. '' Poor
girl ! she has been crippled from a child,
but I wish you knew her. North ; she is ' our
angel in the house.' I often wish I had her
here, and could bring some of these rough
women to look at her. The mere sight of anyone
so suffering, and yet so sweet and gentle,
would have more effect than I can produce by
talking. We want lady helpers sadly. But
what a place for a refined woman to come to !
Still there are those who come."

Eliza brought dinner ; and Roger was
amused by the anxiety she showed that they
should do justice to the meal ; and by the

unfeigned pleasure with which she received his
compliments on her pastry.

*' I be glad you like it, sir," she said, with
an air of receiving no more praise than washer
due. ** And you be not the first neither."

** Take care, Eliza' remarked her master,
'' or Mr. North will go home saying we Devonshire
folk are the most conceited he has ever
come across."

Eliza laughed,

"There's good and there's bad among
Devonshire folk, sir, like the rest of the world ;
but they do know what's good and wholesome."


Dinner over, the friends lost no time insetting
forth upon their round of inspection.
Leslie would not rest content until Roger had
descended into a coal-mine ; and then he took
him to one after another of the principal
industries  iron-works, glass and nail factories.
Leslie threw himself into everything with the
zeal and energy of a boy, and Roger could not
help observing that he had already made his
mark among the men, and was universally
treated with a sort of sturdy, independent
respect. He saw that they recognized in him

the man as well as the minister ; and responded
more or less readily to his frank
good-will.

Leslie had a face which, above all else, was
bright with love towards his fellow-men  a love
which led him to spend and be spent in their
service,  a love which could not be satisfied
unless it were ever active on their behalf. And
when a simple-hearted love such as his fills the
soul, it is impossible but that it must meet
with some response, even from the roughest
and the lowest. But perhaps Leslie lavished
his greatest tenderness on children and the
young, and this Roger discovered as they
walked and talked together.

*' Our best opening is among the young,"
Leslie remarked. '* It is hard work to get
a hold upon grown men, unless some accident
gives us a chance of influencing them for
good. I have great hopes that the night-classes
for lads, which are already at work, may
bear some fruit ; but we are sadly in want
of teachers, and the helpers I have are more
willing than able. Somehow I fancy that a
gentleman has more influence with these rough
boys than one whose ways and manners are

less removed from their own. And the little
children ! I cannot tell you how one's heart
is saddened to think that they grow up surrounded
by sights and sounds which must
contaminate. And what imitators they are !
Do you remember how Mark Twain tells of the
children in an Alpine village ; how they carefully
and laboriously ascended a big manure-heap,
tied together by a string, and armed
with make-believe ice axes ? Note, too, how
their games are always a counterfeit of what
they see among their elders. The children
of the rich will receive visitors, have dinner-parties,
go shopping, riding, driving, and whatnot.
The children of the poor will make
believe to work at such things as they see their
parents do. In our Devonshire village, I once
watched a little lad of five years, who sometimes
followed his father when the latter was
ploughing. He had harnessed himself and
his little sister to an empty bottle, and they
walked soberly backwards and forwards for
more than an hour, most careful that the same
horse  so he told me  should always walk in
the furrow."

As Leslie talked, they happened to pass one

of the many mounds of slag, formed of refuse
from the Iron-works, and looking like nothing
so much as a conglomerate of huge black
oysters-shells. Children almost as black as
their surroundings were playing on the
summit ; and their rough shouts and laughter
rang in the air.

"If we stopped to inquire from those
children the nature of their games," remarked
Leslie, *' it would be the same story. We
should find that they were attempting to
reproduce that which they see around them.
Do you know. North, I saw some little ones
the other day playing at being drunk ! But
what marvel, when drunkenness is a sight only
too familiar to their eyes ? I wonder how often
parents in a higher grade of life, and who
wish to do well to their little ones, seriously
consider this power of observation and imitation
; and remember how the daily tenor of
their own lives leaves its indelible impress
upon their children ! "

It seemed as if Leslie's words were to receive
a present confirmation. A little girl, not
more than three years old, had wandered from
her companions to scramble over some large

and rough pieces of slag. Turning to look at
the two friends, she lost her balance, and fell
down heavily. Leslie hastened to see if she
were hurt. The child was black and dirty,
but beneath the dirt her face looked fair and
delicate. For the moment the fright of her
fall kept her quiet ; but when she found a bad
cut upon her knee, a volley of curses and foul
language fell from her infant lips.

An expression of infinite pity came over
Leslie's face.

'' Hush, hush, little one ! " he said tenderly.
*' Tell me where you live ? "

The child was silent for a moment, surprised
by the gentle voice ; and looked at him with
innocent blue eyes, contrasting strangely with
the curses, that soon poured forth afresh.

Some older children had now come up, to
whom Leslie turned, asking if any knew where
the little girl lived.

I do, parson," volunteered a rough-looking
girl of ten. ' Her be Bessie Thompson."

*' Then show us the way," said Leslie
pleasantly, "and I'll carry her home."

Gently he lifted little Bessie in his arms,
and started along the now fast-darkening

Streets  the centre of a somewhat strange
procession. First walked the little guide, bareheaded,
dirty, ragged, her stockingless feet
peeping through the gaping holes of her
worn-out boots ; then the two friends with
the child, and the tattered children following
in their wake. They had not far to go, and
soon turned into a miserable, dirty street,
peopled by the lowest of the population.
There, as they passed along, could be heard
women screaming at each other in language
as bad as that which the child had used.

Roger looked at Leslie.

*' Have you many streets like this ? "

** A few, but this is one of the worst. A
good many Irish of the lowest description live
here."

The guide shortly came to a halt before a
house no better than its neighbours.

*' That's her house, and that's her mither ; "
and she pointed across the street to a woman
who had stayed her usual gossip to stare at
the new comers.

Leslie went up to her.

*' I have brought your little girl home, my
good woman ; she has had a fall."

The woman was short, though strong in
figure. Her face, like that of the child,
showed traces of refinement, but it had no
soft womanly expression. Her manner was
hard and cold.

** Tiresome little varmint ! " she said, taking
the child from Leslie, and shaking it; *hold
your tongue, or I'll leather you." Then, giving
Leslie and North a quick, scrutinizing glance,
she changed her tone. ' I am sure Fm much
obliged to you, parson, for your trouble."

It was no trouble at all," said Leslie.
*' Pray bathe the poor little thing's knee at
once, and I will call tomorrow to see how
she is."

*' You're welcome if you like  mine isn't
much of a place ; " and the woman laughed a
hard laugh. Then, as they left, she nodded
her good-day with a sense of perfect freedom
and equality.

** These folks are different to ours, though
they live so few miles apart," remarked Roger.

"No doubt," answered Leslie. 'but can
you wonder that they should be rough and
rude, with absolutely nothing around to soften
them ? But even here we have some gentle,

quiet spirits ; you have seen an childlike
child this afternoon ; come in here with me,
and you shall see a childlike old man."

They had reached rather a better row of
houses. Leslie paused to knock at the door
of one which had a tidier look than the rest.
Pots with growing plants were standing on the
window-sill inside.

In answer to the knock a voice cried,
*' Come in ; " and they entered a room, that
was clean though somewhat bare. In a
wooden arm-chair, drawn close to the fire,
sat an elderly man. He, like the room, was
scrupulously clean. His face was thin, his
hair scanty ; his eyes, singularly dark and
bright, were lighted up with a gleam of
pleasure when they rested upon Leslie.

** Good evening, Enoch," said Leslie,
advancing and shaking hands cordially ; ' I
know you are fond of country things, so I have
brought a friend of mine from the country to
see you."

Roger noticed that it was his left hand
which the man gave Leslie, and then held out
to him.

*' Good evening, gentlemen," he said. " I

am right glad to see you, sir, whoever you
be, if you're a friend of Parson Leslie. He
speaks true that I love anything that comes
from the county. Excuse my left hand, sir,
but an accident prevents me using the
other'

" Indeed," such Roger, *' how is that? "

*' An accident such as happens to a many
here, sir," remarked Enoch, quietly; and he
pulled up his sleeve to show a withered, fleshless
limb. " My side and leg are the same 
scalded by hot metal, sir."

'how dreadful! " exclaimed Roger; **I have
never thought of that when I have seen you
fellows at work."

*' Very likely not, sir, but 'tis a common
thing. Many is killed that way. I were in
hospital nine months. They did their best,
but they couldn't give me new flesh ; so I had
to come home to sit by the fireside till I go
yonder to join my old woman."

* And a comfortable fireside you have too,
Enoch," said Leslie, cheerfully.

'eyes, thank the Lord, I have a good son,
and he has a tidy wife. They do their best
for the old man. Only sometimes I think I

should like once more to have a walk in the
green fields'*

** Has your grandson been into the country
lately?" inquired Leslie.

The old man brightened up, and pointed
his thin fore-finger to some sprigs of holly ina
china mug.

Yes, sir, and he brought me these. Dick
do take after me. He'll walk any distance of
a Sunday to get a bit flower or fern."

** Will you show my friend your book,
Enoch ? "

'Deed, sir, and I will with pleasure if the
gentleman cares to see; " and then the old
man felt underneath his chair, and produced
a volume, much worn by constant handling.
He passed it to his visitor.

Roger opened the book, and was surprised
to see page after page of dried wild flowers
and ferns, for the most part with the botanical
names written underneath each specimen.

** How have you managed to make such a
collection as this?" he asked, in astonishment.


** Boy and man, I've lived in the Black
Country, sir. But for years and years, on a

Sunday, I've took my bit of victuals and
walked till I reached the fields. And that's
vhat I've collected, sir," he concluded, with
great pride.

"You have reason to be proud of it," said
Roger.

Yes, sir, I think I have. Perhaps the
parson may think I might have been better
for going to church on a Sunday, but I'm
not so sure. The country was my church,
and it taught me a deal."

I am sure it did," said Leslie, heartily.
God's works teach all who have eyes to see
and ears to hear."

' That's just what I say, sir," said the old
man, well pleased. " Give me the works of
nature and the Bible, and I ask no more.
But the parson who was here before thought
different. He were a good man, very, and I
haven't a word to say again him ; but he talked
as though we were put into this world for
nothing but to work hard to get to heaven.
He seemed to think the right way to get
there was to go to church regular, and to
listen to a deal of sermons. But I say, all
these beautiful things would never have been

put into the world if they were not meant for
us to enjoy, and for them to be teaching us
lessons. Look in the Book, and see what it
says ; and it would not talk so unless we were
to tell about them and to love them too. It
grieves me sore to think there are men
hereabouts who would sooner be drinking
themselves drunk than look at the beautifully
flower that ever grew. It's all their ignorance,
poor things ! Only," added the old man,
thoughtfully "it puzzles me at times to think
why the Almighty should put so many of His
creatures to live in a place where they cannot
see His beautiful works."

'rit is a mystery," said Leslie, quietly; "as
great as that other one  that there should be
spots on earth where

' Every prospect pleases,
And only man is vile.' '"'

The old man looked thoughtful. It was a
new idea. Life had taught him to connect
ugliness and dirt indissolubly with wickedness;
but that man should be wicked where all
around was beautiful seemed strange indeed.

Leslie rose to go.

' If you mean to catch your train, North,
we must be off."

Enoch shook hands warmly with both of
his visitors. As he did so, his eye rested on
a bunch of flowers in the button hole of
Roger's coat.

** Excuse me, sir, but I never saw the like
of them flowers before."

They were white cyclamens, which Roger
had plucked in the conservatory that morning.
Their beauty might be a little dimmed by
the smoke and dirt of Primrose Hill, but he
took the flowers from his coat, and placed
them in Enoch's hand. The old man fingered
the delicate blossoms lovingly.

*' They are cyclamens," said Roger. "When
I come again to see Mr. Leslie I will bring
you a plant. They thrive well in a room."

A gleam of pleasure shone in Enoch's bright
eyes.

** Thank you kindly, sir. Them are beautiful
flowers, and no mistake."

And then they left their old friend, still
caressing his new-found treasure.

The last gleam of daylight had departed.
Strange and weird as the place looked in the

daytime, it appeared infinitely more so at
night. Everywhere a lurid light was thrown
from the furnaces, and flames leaped fiercely
from many a chimney-top. There was a
pathos too in the noise of the machinery, at
an hour when night had descended upon the
earth, and the time for man to rest from
labour had come.

Roger and Leslie could not stay to look
around, but walked with rapid strides towards
the station. On parting, Leslie promised to
spend at least one night at Belton, early in
the new year. And Roger went his way with
an ever-growing feeling of compassion for the
toilers in that strange world.

VOL. II. 17

THE ICE IS BROKEN.

*'I SAY, Miss Blythe," called a boyish voice,
*' can you tell me where Roger is ? "

At the same moment the door of the
morning-room at Belton Hall was partially
opened, and a boy's head and shoulders appeared.
Agatha Blythe sat writing at a table,
and looked up with her bright habitual smile.
*' He has driven to the station to meet
Mr. Leslie."

** Has he ? Well, I do call that a beastly
nuisance," and the young gentleman hung onto
the door, and began kicking it with his feet.
*' My dear boy!" said Agatha, in a tone
of remonstrance, ** don't do that  just think
how shocked your aunt would be. But why
do you want Roger?"

The boy made a face, came forward into
the room, and flung himself down on a
chair.

'* I want to ask him if I may go to skate
with the rectory boys. The ice is just as
thick as anything, and they mean to skate for
the whole day at the Mill Pool if it will bear.
I can't wait till Roger comes back  they will
have gone without me."

** Well, can you not get leave from your
aunt, Charlie ? " suggested Agatha.

*' She's such a starched old thing  I don't
like to ask her," said Charlie, disrespectfully.

Agatha was accustomed to boys, and took
no notice of the uncomplimentary epithet.

** I will ask her for you, if you want to go
immediately."

** Will you ? " said Charlie, jumping up.
"You are a brick! do go at once."

"Stop a moment," said Agatha, laughingly;
I know the Mill Pool is rather dangerous.
Tell me first if any grown-up persons are
going with the boys? "

Oh yes, heaps ; their cousin Tom, and
Mr. What's-his-name  the curate  and Major
Stephens, and "

** That's enough," interrupted Agatha ; and
then she left the room, to return in a few
minutes with Mrs. North's permission.

*' Hurrah ! " cried Charlie, *' I'm off."

Then followed a quarter of an hour during
which Agatha had to assist in finding skates
and gimlet ; and in moderating, so far as she
could, the general commotion and banging of
doors which ensued before the boy finally left
the house. An hour later, Mrs. North had
joined Agatha in the morning-room. Had the
older lady been one to remark the moods of
others, she might have noticed that her companion
was unusually distraite and wore a
restless air at variance with the quiet serenity
of her nature.

*' I hear the dog-cart returning," remarked
Mrs. North, as her ear caught the sound of
wheels grating on the drive.

This was no news to Agatha. She had
heard the sound long before Mrs. North spoke,
and the flush on her cheek had deepened.
She said nothing, but bent over her work,
appearing to be deeply engaged upon her task.

A few minutes more, and they heard Roger's
voice in the hall.

'come this way, Leslie; I must make you
known to my mother first thing."

Then the door opened, and the two friends
appeared.

Mrs. North was seated near the fire, Agatha
nearer the window, with her back half turned
to the door, and her head bent more closely
than ever over that apparently engrossing
needlework. Did she give the faintest little
start in the world when Leslie replied to Mrs.
North's greeting ?

Roger looked round, and saw her.

*' Here, Leslie, let me introduce you to my
cousin. Miss Blythe. You are two of my best
friends, and ought to know each other."

Leslie turned quickly ; then held out his
hand, and exclaimed, in an accent of surprise, 

Miss Blythe ! what fortunate wind has
blown you here ? "

Why, Agatha," said Roger, in amazement,
** you never told me that you had met Leslie
before."

*eyes," said Leslie, laughing, "your introduction
was quite superfluous."

*' I  I heard you talk of Mr. Leslie," said
Agatha, in some confusion, *' but you did not

say he came from Devonshire ; and I did not
know it was the same Mr. Leslie whom I had
met there."

'* True, Miss Blythe," said Leslie; ''my
name is by no means uncommon. You look
mystified yet, North ; but I assure you that
your cousin and I are quite old friends. She
has stayed with our Squire more than once."

*' Yes," said Agatha, simply, " but it is two
years since I was there ; and I did not know
that you had left home."

*' Since both agree to the story, I suppose
I must believe," said Roger; "but it is very
strange that we should not have discovered
the fact of your acquaintanceship before."

Then Leslie turned once more to Mrs. North.

"Where is Charlie, Agatha?" inquired
Roger.

She told him that the boy had gone to skate
on the Mill Pool.

"That's rather a good idea," said Roger.
Suppose we have luncheon earlier, and o
ourselves. I want to show Leslie the church ;
but we can see that as we pass through the
village. What do you say, Leslie ? "

Say to what ? " asked Leslie.

Roger explained.

*' I should like it of all things," he said. ** I
have come for a holiday, and mean to enjoy
myself, and inhale as much fresh air as
possible ; so nothing could be better. You
will come too, I hope. Miss Blythe?"
'* Of course she will," said Roger.

Agatha coloured and hesitated, then looked
towards Mrs. North.

Do you want' me this afternoon, cousin
Sophia ? "

*' No, my dear," replied Mrs. North. 'ego
with them by all means. This keen air affects
my breathing. I shall remain at home, but
the exercise will do you good."

And so it was arranged. Luncheon was
served at half-past twelve, and it was not much
later when the trio started on their walk. The
day was lovely, and the first really hard frost
of the season rendered the air bright and
sparkling. There had been only a slight

sprinkling of snow before the frost set in

enough to robe the landscape In pure white
but not enough to make the roads unpleasant
for walking. Leslie was in the highest spirits,
just like a boy let loose from school; and his

gaiety could not fail to infect the others, aided
as it was by the racy atmosphere.

They had nearly reached the village when
Leslie asked, 

" Where are your skates, Miss Blythe ? "

*' I have not brought them."

*' But you can skate ? "

** Oh, yes, but I have not skated for several
years ; and it always gives gentlemen so much
trouble to put on a lady's skates."

'* How horribly unkind of you to say that ! "
said Leslie, reproachfully. '* Tell me where
they are, and I will run back and get them ; "
and he stood prepared to start.

*' Indeed you must do no such thing," said
Agatha. " I left them behind on purpose ;
please say no more about it ! " and she looked
so much distressed that Leslie reluctantly
consented to walk on.

*' We must look after you, and see that you
bring them another time," he said.

Agatha used to be a first-rate performer,"
remarked Roger ; and then he checked a sigh
as he recalled the many merry days passed on
the Mill Pool with her and another.

They walked through the village, and

ascended the few steps leading to the churchyard.
The church was undergoing the 
restoration. Workmen had been
busy for several months, and the building presented
an appearance of great confusion.
This day all outside work was suspended on
account of the frost, but the sound of chisel
and hammer resounded within. Roger had
failed to conquer the secret feeling of regret
with which he had watched the alterations.
He would fain that the interior should have
remained the same as when his eyes had often
sought a girlish form and fair young face,
thrown into prominence by the dark oak of
the choir. And so, as he showed Leslie what
changes were being made, his expression
became somewhat grave and sad.

Leslie took a keen interest in all that was
being done, and on emerging once more into
the bright, frosty air, he asked, 

When do you expect the work to be
finished, North? "

*' We talk of Easter, but I fear it may be
longer."

Leslie turned to survey the building with
a critical air.

Easter indeed ! it won't be finished before
Michaelmas," he said, decidedly.

** Don't say that to our rector," remarked
Roger. ' Such an idea would drive him
distracted. But surely you rather over-estimate
the time."

*' Not a bit," persisted the other. " Come,
what do you say, Miss BIythe ? "

*' I  oh ! I know nothing about it ; only
these restorations always do take longer
than is expected."

*' There ! you see Miss BIythe agrees with
me," said Leslie, triumphantly.

Roger laughed at his pertinacity.

Well, shall it be a bargain that you come
to the re-opening, if it is before the time you
name ? "

*'A11 right," said Leslie, "I'll promise to
come if Miss BIythe will."

*' Yes, Agatha, of course you must be here,"
said Roger; "and if you promise too, he will
be obliged to keep his word."

Agatha hesitated ; but her companions
would listen to no denial, and finally extracted
from her a conditional promise.

They were on the high road again ; but

had not gone many paces when they met
Mrs. Stephens, walking with Mrs. Bland, the
curate's wife.

' Where are you going?" inquired Mrs.
Stephens, when they had exchanged greetings.

''To join the skaters at the Mill Pool,"
answered Roger.

You all look very merry. Suppose we go
too, since both our husbands are there amusing
themselves. What do you say, Mrs.
Bland ? "

Mrs. Bland consenting, the whole party
walked on together. However, Leslie's energetic
steps soon out paced the two older ladies.
Presently he and Agatha led the way. They
seemed well contented ; and, on arriving insight
of the pool, were surprised to find that 
they had left their companions far behind.

The scene was bright and pretty. The long
and narrow pool stretched through meadows
white with snow, and its icy surface was
enlivened by the figures of the skaters  men
and maidens, boys and girls  all in the full
enjoyment of the healthful exercise. Willows
hung over the pool at the point where Agatha
and Leslie stood. One of them served the

purpose of a bridge. For the stream, which
turned the mill hard by, ran close under the
bank, rendering the ice unsafe for several feet
from the edge ; and the thick trunk of the
willow bridged over the dangerous space, and
then bent down, touching the ice where it was
sound and strong.

Leslie and his companion waited until the
rest came up ; then he and Roger clambered
over the rustic bridge, and soon mingled with
the skaters. Roger excelled in skating, and
with his usual good nature was soon among
the boys, who appealed to him at once for
instruction and assistance. Leslie, meanwhile,
found a chair mounted on skates ; and making
friends with some of the younger children,
took them for rapid rides up and down the
pool. Presently he stopped near the bank
where the ladies were walking.

*' Do let me give you a ride, Miss Blythe ! ''

*' Oh no, thank you''

But he persisted, and finally persuaded
Agatha to seat herself in the chair. Once
there, she was obliged to confess that the
smooth, rapid motion was exceedingly pleasant.


*' I am sure you must be tired, Mr. Leslie,"
she said, at last.

*' Nonsense! you are as light as a feather.
Let us have one turn more, and it shall be a
good one."

But that last turn met with a termination
which neither expected. Leslie ventured up
the pool farther than he had gone before.
Agatha was on the point of speaking to warn
him, and at the same moment Major Stephens
shouted to them at the top of his voice to
come back. Too late ! Leslie heard indeed,
slackened his speed, and was about to turn,
when the ice gave way. Fortunately the
water was not deep. For a moment Agatha's
head went under, but Leslie grasped her
tightly as they fell, and almost before any one
had time to see what had happened, both were
on their feet, the water reaching just above
Agatha's waist. There was no real danger,
for they were not many feet from the bank ; but
the difficulty was to extricate them from their
uncomfortable position. Major Stephens, who
was always great on the subject of prudence
on the ice, had a rope at hand ; and plenty
of excited helpers were soon on the spot.

They were near the opposite bank to that
from which they had reached the ice, and Mrs.
Stephens and Mrs. Bland hurried round by
a bridge which was close to the mill. By the
time they arrived Roger had plunged into
the water, and was helping Leslie to support
Agatha. The three, with the help of the rope,
were gradually making their way to the edge.

When Mrs. Stephens saw that there was no
danger beyond a wetting, she felt inclined to
laugh ; but Mrs. Bland wrung her hands,
greatly perturbed.

"Oh, my dear Miss Blythe ! " she cried,
*' the water will spoil your watch. Can't you
hand it out? "

A ring of laughter greeted this sally, but no
one heeded the request, and in a few minutes
more the three dripping figures were safely
landed upon the bank.

Take Agatha to the mill, Mrs. Stephens,"
said Roger, " and keep her warm, while Leslie
and I run home to send the carriage with dry
clothes."

Mrs. North was crossing the hall when they
entered the front door.

What has happened ? " she exclaimed.

You both look as if you had been in the
water."

"So we have," replied Roger; "and
Agatha too, but no harm done. I want your
maid to go at once in the carriage, and take
her what she will require."

I will see to that," said Mrs. North, "but
pray change your own things immediately.
I am very sorry, Mr. Leslie, that your holiday
should be spoiled by such a catastrophe."

It was all my fault," said Leslie, ruefully.
I shall never forgive myself if Miss Blythe
is any the worse."

I hope she may not suffer," said Mrs,
North ; "she does not take cold easily. Who
is with her, Roger ? "

Mrs. Stephens and Mrs. Bland."

In that case I need not go myself, but
will send Prim."

Then Mrs. North would listen to no further
explanations, and hurried them to their
rooms.

Leslie did not see Agatha again until he
entered the drawing-room before dinner. She
was alone, standing by the fire, and looked
none the worse for her cold bath. Her black

velvet dress seemed unusually becoming, and
a bright colour tinged her cheeks. Leslie
came forward eagerly, and held out his hand.

Will you ever forgive me. Miss Blythe,
for my carelessness and stupidity ? ''

Agatha laughed, a shy happy laugh ; and
laid her soft white hand in his.

'rit was not your fault. I know the Pool
better than you do, and should have warned
you not to go up there."

*' Then you really do forgive me ? " he said,
still retaining her hand, and looking at her
earnestly.

** Indeed I do  pray say no more about it ; "
and Agatha's eyes drooped beneath his gaze.

"Well," he said, releasing her hand, "at
all events, I shall not forgive myself in a hurry.
I felt like a school-boy this afternoon. You,
who always live in the country, can hardly
imagine what an intoxicating effect the pure,
good air has when one comes into it from the
Black Country. But are you quite sure you
are none the worse ? " and again he looked
at her, this time in some anxiety.

Quite sure ; I never felt better in my
life."

** I am glad of that," he said, with a sigh
of relief

Their tete-d-tiie was brought to an end by
the entrance of Mrs. North.

** Agatha ! " she exclaimed,  why have you
come downstairs? I have just given Prim
orders to take dinner to your room." '

*' I am quite well, cousin Sophia," said
Agatha, with the becoming colour rising once
more to her cheek; " and  and I thought that
if I stayed upstairs Mr. Leslie  I mean that
all of you would think I was really ill."

*' Well," said Mrs. North, " since you are
here, my dear, it is no use saying anything
more about it ; but I hardly think that you
are prudent."

The evening passed very pleasantly.
Agatha's presence had always a softening
effect on Mrs. North, and Leslie possessed
a nature calculated to break down almost any
barrier of reserve. Roger was more than
pleased to note the cordiality of his mother
towards his friend. It was a sure sign that
he had won her regard, and seldom indeed did
she so unbend to a new acquaintance. It was
later than usual when they separated, and then

VOL. II. 18

Roger took Leslie to the study to enjoy
that pleasantness of all things  a confidential
talk.

** Do you never smoke now, North ? " asked
Leslie, as he lighted his pipe.

** No, I have got out of the way of it."

** Ah, well, you do not lead a bachelor life.
Of course a man may easily become a slave to
the habit, but a pipe is pleasant company
after a hard day's work."

Rover had been lying as usual on the
hearth-rug, and now caused a diversion by
getting up to examine the stranger.

** Come here, you fine fellow," said Leslie,
holding out a hand. " What a handsome old
dog. North. Have you had him long ? "

** Not very long. I am taking care of him
for a friend."

There was something in Roger's voice
which made Leslie look up quickly. He saw
that he had touched some tender chord. Who
was the friend, he wondered, the mention
of whose name gave that thrill to Roger's
tone  that sad and tender look to his
eyes ?

For a short time Leslie continued to cultivate

Rover's acquaintance. At length he spoke
somewhat abruptly.

I think your cousin has the sweetest face
I ever saw ! "

''I am delighted to hear you say so," said
Roger, heartily. '' She is almost like a sister
to me ; and I should take it as a personal
affront if you failed to appreciate her good
qualities."

'' Who could ? " said Leslie. '' We all used
to think the same at home, and certainly she
has not changed for the worse since we last
met."

*' Agatha is the sort of woman whose charm
will never be lessened by time," remarked the
other.

** How is it that she has not married?"
asked Leslie, with an assumed indifference,
but observing Roger somewhat keenly.

' I am sure I don't know. Anyhow, none
of us want her to marry ; and she is the
happiest person possible as she is."

Then the conversation drifted to Leslie's
work in his parish. He talked long and
earnestly, especially about his night-schools.
Roger sat listening with a quiet, serious look

on his face. Leslie was walking up and down
the room in his excitement, and had paused
a moment in his talk.

Roger was the first to break the silence.
He was gazing into the fire. When he spoke,
his voice had a half shy tone, and he did not
turn to look at his friend.

'' Can I be of any help in the night-schools,
Leslie?"

Leslie arrested his walk, and regarded
Roger in astonishment.

*' You ! my dear fellow  do you really mean
it?"

*' I have been thinking it over ever since
I saw you last," said Roger, in a matter-of-fact
way ; " and if I could give any real
assistance by coming to you one night in
the week I should be glad to do so. The
offer is a shabby one, I know, but I do not
like to undertake more than I can carry out.
Would it be worth your acceptance ? "

"Worth my acceptance ! " exclaimed Leslie,
joyfully. " It would be worth anything to me.
You cannot estimate. North," he added, with
deep feeling, " what good you would do.
You are the very man to obtain an influence

over the lads. And the fact that you are a
layman, and come such a distance on purpose
to teach, would make them think a thousand
times more of you than they do of me. They
are inclined to look upon the teaching of the
clergy as a matter of business  so much work
for so much pay."

'well," said Roger, "if you think so I
will come."

Leslie left next morning. But from that
date a constant intercourse was kept up
between Primrose Hill and Belton Hall. Roger
found it convenient to pass the night at the
parsonage on his weekly visits, and he soon
helped Leslie in many other ways.

Once more, while Agatha Blythe remained
at Belton, Leslie came. The result of this
second visit was that Mrs. North and Agatha
accompanied Roger one day to Primrose Hill.
They lunched at the parsonage, and then
they, also, were shown something of the Black
Country.

It was fortunate that Mrs. North had taken a
liking to Leslie, for it softened in some degree
her objection to Roger's weekly absences from
home. But in any case, she was not disposed

to be SO jealous of his friendship with a man
as with a woman. She had, indeed, ventured
upon some remonstrance when he first mentioned
his intention.

** Mother," he had said, " if you can show
me that I neglect any other duty by going, I
will give it up. If not, pray say no more''

** so EARLY, LEAVING ME Behind'*

The sun shone pleasantly upon the garden of
the Estancia Mercedes. The trees were bare
of leaves, for it was the month of June ; but
the sky was blue and unclouded, and the air,
though fresh, had no unpleasant chill. The
brightness of the morning had tempted Kate
to leave the house, and she was walking to
and fro under the tall poplars. These had
become a favourite resort of hers during the
many months that she had been living on the
estan(ia

And to-day she was not alone, for in her
arms there lay an infant. Four months
ago she had become a mother. And what
comfort had not that little messenger from
heaven brought ? For the hast time since her
father's death, she had an object on which to

bestow the wealth of her affection. And yet
she regarded her new treasure with a trembling,
fearful joy. Maybe the very intensity
of the love with which the babe had filled her
heart was a warning to look upon it as a
loan, and not a gift.

Pacing along the greensward, she bent her
fair head and crooned over the child in the
loving language of a young mother.

** My own, my little darling ! No one knows
all that you are to me. No one knows what
a hard, bad heart your mother had before you
came. But when I saw your little angel face,
how could I retain those wicked thoughts ?
If I had, I should not deserve to possess such
a treasure. And you, my precious, will love
me always, won't you ? and I will try and
teach you to be good. And you will teach
your mother too, you darling ! for you have
already taught her something."

And thus Kate whispered to' her child, the
light of a mother's love giving to her face a
bright and happy look  different by far to
that of unclouded youth, and telling of a joy
infinitely deeper and more lasting.

To other eyes the babe seemed but a fragile,

tender blossom. The little face, pressed so
lovingly against Its mother's breast, was white
as alabaster. The fair hair rested in wavy
curls on temples where the blue veins showed
too plainly. But so far, though holding to
life with seemingly a slender grasp, the child
had gained In strength.

Presently Kezlah came ; and toddling by
her side was Mary's youngest child, now a
sturdy boy of eighteen months.

*' Let me take the baby, ma'am," she said.
*' I am sure you have carried him long
enough."

** He is so light, Kezlah, I don't feel his
weight one bit. But it Is time to hear the
children's lessons, so I suppose I must let
you take him."

Kate pressed her lips once more on the
little face, gave a half sigh as she placed the
baby in Keziah's arms, and turned towards
the house.

When the sunshine, wrought by the presence
of her child, had faded from her face, It
became apparent how great was the change
since the bright, dear days of Belton. She
was both thinner and paler, and although the

fierceness of the storm had passed away, to be
replaced by a gentler calm, a sad expression
remained when her face was In repose.

After leaving her child in Kezlah's arms
she walked languidly at first; then, as If
rousing herself to exertion, she quickened
her pace, and reached the house. She looked
into the two sitting-rooms, but they were
empty. Then she crossed the patio and,
guided by the sound of voices, went to the
kitchen. There she found Mary, with sleeves
tucked up and with a big white apron to
protect her dress. Surrounded by basins and
flour, and what not, she was busily preparing
some culinary dainty. Rosa and Kitty were
pretending to assist, and had, of course, made
themselves most untidy in the process.

** Children, it is lesson time," said Kate, as
she entered.

*soh dear!" exclaimed Mary, "you tiresome
little monkeys ! Keziah washed your hands
before she went out, and now you have made
them dirty again.

** I can wash my own hands, and Kitty's
too," said Rosa, tossing her head.

'every well then, run along and do so;

and come and tell Aunt Kate when you
are ready."

Kate seated herself on the table, and
watched Mary's deft and busy fingers.

What are you making, Mary ? "

*' Cakes, child. I have sent both the servants
to the wash-house  we are so behindhand
owing to the wet last week. And we shall
have all these men remaining here at least
another night. I hope they will have a good
day's sport and fill the larder."

"How early they started," said Kate; "they
woke me when it was quite dark."

** Yes, they had some way to go."

Kate gave a little weary sigh, which made
her sister look up.

** How tired you seem, dear ! Don't fatigue
yourself by teaching the children to-day.
You try to do too much."

*' Oh no, I am not tired, and I would
rather have plenty to do. It is the only thing
that keeps me from thinking."

Mary regarded her affectionately.

My poor, dear child ! it is so hard for you."

*' Oh, Mary ! I do try to be patient, but it
seems as if we had been waiting such a weary

long time. It is nearly a year now since
Sydney went away ; and never a letter, and
only that one little scrap of news. Sometimes"
 and Kate's voice sank to a tone of
awe  '' I fear that he must be dead."

*' Oh no, dear, don't think that. I am sure
you will hear soon. Let me see,  it was
January when George learnt that Sydney had
assumed another name. That is the reason,
of course, why he did not answer your first
letters  most probably he never got them.
Then it was March when you wrote after baby
was born, and it was only then that you sent
the money. Quite likely the letters might
have to follow him from one spot to another ;
and in those out-of-the-way places letters are
never delivered very quickly. But I feel sure
you must hear soon."

And so Mary repeated the consolatory
arguments so often used before.

*' I hope so," said Kate, with quivering lips.
*' Oh, Mary ! this waiting makes me feel as if
I were growing quite old. Every morning I
say to myself, ' Shall I hear anything to-day ? '
And then, when the hours pass, and bring
nothing with them, it seems as if the day had

been so very long. And yet sometimes I think
that if I could only be at ease about him, I
could be happy and light-hearted once again
especially now that I have baby. And after
all, you know, I am quite young yet."

The pathetic ring in her voice touched kind
Mary's heart, and her tears began to flow.

*' Don't cry, Mary darling! don't cry,"
exclaimed Kate, impulsively ; and springing
from the table, she threw her arms about her
sister, and kissed away the tears. " You have
been such a kind, good darling to me ; and I
hate myself when I see how you grieve because
of my troubles."

There was a touch of her old playful
vehemence as she spoke. Then she added
more soberly, 

Mary, I will try a new plan. I won't
expect each day to hear something, but I will
only look for news once a fortnight. Let us
say this day fortnight, to begin with. Then I
shall only be disappointed one day instead
of fourteen. Don't you think that will bea
good plan ? "

She spoke with so quaint an earnestness
that Mary could but smile.

" Now, Mary, I must dry your tears. You
can't do it for yourself, for your hands are
sticky; " and Kate, taking her sister's handkerchief,
suited the action to her words. But
meanwhile her own eyes were not without a
suspicious dimness.

*' There!" she said, restoring the handkerchief
to Mary's pocket. " I have delayed you
enough  go on with your cakes. Where are
those children ? They might have washed a
dozen pairs of hands by now. I must go and
see what they are doing."

And then she turned to leave the kitchen. On
reaching the door she looked back with a smile.

** Mind you make good cakes, Mary  I
mean to eat a lot of them to-night."

But had Mary seen the deep shadow which
overspread her sister's face a moment later, she
would have wept anew.

When the door had closed behind her, Kate
stood gazing across the patio with eyes that
saw nothing there. Then, stifling the mournful
thoughts which rose unbidden, she went
to seek her little nieces.

She found them In difficulties with the water,
which they had managed to upset. They were

in a riotous frame of mind that day, and unusual
attention was required to keep them to
their tasks. As a rule, Kate enjoyed this hour
of teaching, for she was very fond of the
children ; but to-day she was glad when it was
over, and they had gone away to play. Then
she went wearily to the nursery. Keziah had
laid her baby in its cradle. Kate raised the
coverlet, and, seeing that it slept, she sat down
close by.

Presently Mary entered the room. Kate
held up a warning finger so that she might not
wake the little sleeper ; and when Mary came
gently to her side, she raised the coverlet
again to show the baby face.

Is he not lovely? " she whispered.

And the child was lovely. Its features were
more formed than is usual in so young an
infant, but they were most delicately chiselled.
The finely-pencilled eyebrows and long lashes
were of a colour darker than the hair, and well
contrasted with the pure white skin. When
the child was awake, his large blue eyes always
seemed to have a strange intelligence.

A shade of anxiety crossed Mary's face, and
then she bent down over the cradle.

'does he often breathe like this?" she
asked.

Kate lowered her head to listen.

"- No, I never noticed anything like that
before. Is he ill, Mary . " and her look and
tone were those of intense alarm.

''No, no, dear," said Mary, quickly. ''I
am fanciful about babies, and this one is such
a delicate bit of porcelain  so different to my
big strong bairns  that I don't quite know
what to make of him. But do not take him
out-of-doors again to-day, and keep him
warm."

Mary left the room, and the hands of the
young mother lay idly on her lap as she wistfully
watched her babe. In a little while he
stirred, half opening his sleepy eyes, and
then she took him up, and rocked him in her
arms.

After Sydney left her, the long months had
passed, with little event to mark them, save that
one great event, the birth of her child. Not
once had she been away from the estaiKia ;
even the baptism of her baby had taken place
there. From the first Mary had been anxious
about its frail life; and, at her request, the

English clergyman from Santa Rosa had come
to baptize the child. Kate had named him
William, after her father. On recovering
strength, her first act had been to write to
Sydney. She had written more than one letter
to him previously, but this was the first time
that she had been able to write with a perfect
forgiveness that banished all constraint. The
advent of the little babe had completed the
softening influence which had been at work
before. How could she harbour any feeling
of anger against the father of her child ? To
forgive was no longer an effort, and her feelings
as a mother led her to hope great things from
the letter she had written. Surely Sydney,
too, would long to gaze upon the face of his
own child, and this additional tie must bring
him back.

These hopes, and her new-found joy, had
given to Kate renewed health and spirits
beyond anything that her sister had dared to
expect. But now more than three months had
passed since that letter was sent upon its way ;
and still no answer came, and with hope so
long deferred Kate was once more beginning
to droop.

VOL. II. 19

At that time life on a South American
stanza was emphatically a life of isolation for
English ladies. Distances were great, and
few and far between were the houses where
ladies were to be found on those wide plains.
In the case of the Estancia Mercedes, none
resided nearer than Santa Rosa. Before Kate
arrived, lady friends had occasionally visited
there, and Mary was pleased to see them when
they came. But, being essentially one of those
women whose interests are concentrated in
husband and children, she never pined for an
impossible society. And Kate, with the weight
of sorrow and shame that had clouded the first
year of her married life, was thankful that Fate
had thrown her in a spot so far from the gaze
and pity of the world.

But, though no lady had visited the estangia
during the past year, men constantly made
their appearance. Some of them were brother
settlers, some travellers through the country ;
but all alike received a hearty welcome from
George Ramsay. Then there was a third
class of visitors, whom no one wished for.
These last were popularly and rightly termed
** loafers,"  men who possessed no settled

home or calling of their own, but spent their
time in wandering from place to place, remaining
as long as the good-nature of the
owners permitted them to do so.

It happened that just now four chance
visitors were domiciled with the Ramsayss,
and George had taken them out early that
morning for a day's sport. It was dark when
they returned, laden with the wild duck
and swans which they had shot in the river
swamps.

At the first opportunity Mary drew her
husband aside.

'george," she said, "I am very uneasy
about the baby."

'' Whose baby Kate's ? "

'' Of course ; were her child like ours there
would be no cause to be anxious. Do you
think I ought to speak to her, and persuade
her to take him to the doctor?"

That entirely depends upon how serious
you think the child's condition. How can I
advise? You know far more than I do of
children's ailments."

*' Yes ; but I cannot bear to say anything
to make her uneasy," said Mary, with a sigh.

* I cannot tell what I ought to do. And
then it may be only fancy."

** Oh ! well, if you are not sure, I suppose it
won't make much difference waiting until tomorrow,
and we can talk about it again."

And so Mary said nothing. But the words
which she had dropped that morning had
aroused in Kate a vague uneasiness. More
than once during the evening the mother stole
to the nursery to make sure that her child was
sleeping peacefully.

But that night Mary was awakened from
her first sleep by a knocking at her door. She
sat up in bed, confused and startled. Then
the door was partly opened, and she heard
Kate's voice.

'' Mary ! Mary ! wake up. I want you to
come quickly."

Mary sprang out of bed, and went to the
door. The moon was shining brilliantly into
the patio, and it was light even under the
sheltering roof of the corridor. As Kate stood
in the shade, with the white moonlight behind,
it seemed to Mary that she wore almost an
unearthly look. Her fair hair, her pale face,
her white wrapper  all etherealized by the

mystic light  brought to remembrance an
angel as painted by the hand of some old
Italian master.

"Mary," she said, in a low, awed voice,
** baby is ill  I must go back to him ; but
come at once."

Then she moved quickly away; and Mary,
with a sinking heart, lost no time in following.

It was three o'clock in the morning when
Mary returned and awoke her husband.

** George," she said, ** the baby is very ill.
It has had convulsions. We have been doing
all we can for the last three hours. I fear
there is hardly any hope, but I want you to
send for the doctor. Young Marshall would
go at once, and if we send a telegram to Dr.
Florins, he would receive it in time to come
by the train."

So George went and woke Marshall, and
the young man was soon riding across the
plains still lighted by the moon.

The hours of waiting for the doctor's arrival
were weary  very weary. When morning
dawned, the anxious watchers thought that
the baby seemed better. Mary allowed herself
a little gleam of hope, and spoke some cheering

words to Kate. But before mid-day the
tender frame was again shaken by convulsions,
and though none spoke each felt that hope
was gone.

It was early afternoon when the doctor
came. He was a kindly old Spaniard ; and
his heart was touched with pity as he looked
on the pale young mother, who watched the
flickering life of her first-born child. But he
could do nothing more than the women's
loving care had already done. Before leaving,
he told George that, whether the convulsions
returned or not, the child had no strength to
rally.

The drawing-room was turned into a nursery
for the little sufferer, for there was no fire-place
in Kate's room ; and they could only keep
him quiet in the front of the house, away
from the noise of the other children. And so
for three days and nights their watch continued.
The convulsions did not return, but
hour by hour life seemed to fade away. From
the first Kate had no hope. She listened to
Mary's cheering words, but felt an inward
certainty that for her child the summons had
come. Mary and Keziah in vain endeavoured

to persuade her to leave him to their care
while she lay down, to take some needful
rest.

'' Don't ask me, Mary," she said. '' I
cannot leave him. It is only for a little while
that I shall have him  there will be plenty of
time to rest afterwards."

And so her babe lay upon her knee,
uttering a low wailing cry from time to time,
which pierced her mother-heart sharply,' as
would a sword. And still the little face grew
more wan  more death-like.

To Kate, those days seemed years. As
she watched her dying child, his life which
might have been traversed her mind. In
mental vision she saw him pass through the
several stages of childhood, boyhood, manhood.
With an agonizing pang the thought
came that she would never hear him call her
mother  never see him grow to be a man,
and find in him a tower of strength. Yet even
during these sad and precious hours she was
learning the lesson of resignation. If it wrung
her heart so sorely to see him suffer now,
would it not be ever so as life went on ? In
his unsullied innocence and purity he was

going to a better land, where no suffering
could ever touch him, where no sin could ever
taint. He would be safe with his heavenly
Father ; and she  if she could but endure
unto the end  would join him there at last.

The evening was closing on the third day
when Mary gently entered the sick-room.
There was no light save that from the fire,
which shone upon Kate's figure as she sat
pale and still, with the infant on her knee.

** He is sleeping," whispered she, in answer
to her sister's look.

Mary drew near ; and, kneeling by her side,
gazed for a moment on the pure white face.

Then she twined her arms round Kate.

** My poor darling ! don't you see ?  he is
asleep, but it is the sleep from which he will
never wake again."

And so it was. The appointed work on
earth of the little babe was completed as truly
and thoroughly as if its term of life had been
a hundred years. It had been simply lent to
that young mother ; and now its kind Father
loving them both so well  had taken to
Himself its pure unspotted soul.

NEWS AT LAST.

One afternoon, some three weeks later, a
solitary rider on a jaded horse was approaching
the Estancia Mercedes. From a little
distance his appearance, perhaps, somewhat
closely resembled that of a gaucho, and the
cumbrous wooden saddle and trappings of the
horse were those peculiar to the country. A
poncho almost completely concealed his other
garments, and a flapping Spanish hat protected
his head. His face was dark, and had
been tanned by the sun to the colour of a
ripe walnut. His hair and beard were black
and shaggy. Yet a nearer inspection would
have shown him to be no Spaniard. His
square-built frame was far different to that
of the wiry, lithesome children of the south ;
and the broad, strong hand which held the

reins as little resembled their small and tapering
fingers.

He took no pains to urge his worn-out
steed to a quicker pace ; but with eyes fixed
on the spot for which he was making, he wore
a deeply thoughtful look. As he drew nearer
the noise of sheep bleating, of men shouting,
and dogs barking, told of work going on in
the yards. Many thousands of sheep were
congregated in a narrow space ; and dust, and
noise, and movement seemed to vie with one
another for pre-eminence.

The man reined in his horse and watched
the busy scene. After a while, a shepherd
passed close to him ; and then the traveller,
after one scrutinizing glance, addressed him
in English.

'* Is Mr. Ramsay here, and can I see him ? "

The shepherd was a tall red-haired Scotchman,
far too phlegmatic to regard the speaker
with any curiosity.

''Aweel, mon, I ken ye will have to wait;
the maister's busy."

So the man remained as before, quietly
watching the scene.

There was little to distinguish the master

from those whom he employed, for George
Ramsay was as active as any man among
them. He was constantly in the midst of
the sheep, examining one or*nother, and
his rough canvas clothes bore ample evidence
of hard usage. However, the watcher succeeded
in singling him out, for when the
business in the yards was over, and the men
commenced to drive away the sheep in large
mobs, he rode up to George and saluted in
man-of-war fashion.

*' Ask pardon, sir, but are you Mr. Ramsay?"

*eyes," replied George, somewhat roughly.
' What do you want ? A nights lodging,
I suppose."

* Well, sir," answered the man, *' if you
choose to give it to me after hearing my story,
I shall not be ungrateful ; for I have ridden
from Santa Rosa since dawn. I have come
with a message for you."

"A message," repeated George, in surprise.
** From whom ? "

The man had slipped from his horse, and
was walking by George's side towards the
house. He answered by putting another
question.

'* Was Mr. Sydney Wyndham Ferrars a
relation of yours, sir ? "

* Yes. Do you bring news of him ? ''

*' Ay, ay, sir," was the reply. *' For one
thing, I am the bearer of a letter to his
lady''

indeed!" said George, with his interest
now fully aroused. *' Where do you come
from ? when did you see him last?"

'* I come from many miles north of Asun-
sion, and saw him last nearly three months
ago."

"' Why did he send you? Why did he not
come himself? "

*' He has gone on a long journey, sir."

'' What has he done that for ? " exclaimed
George. "Do you know if he received our
letters ? "

*' Yes, sir, he did."

*' Then why on earth has he gone further
away ? "

*' He would have returned if he could after
getting them letters, but he was obliged to
go, sir."

What do you mean ? " said George, pausing
to look at the man's solemn face. Then

a sudden thought flashed through his brain ;
*good Heavens! do you mean that he is
dead?"

* That's it, sir," said the man, with tears
glittering in his eyes. Then he stretched out
his hands, and continued, *' He died in these
arms these very hands closed his eyes and
dug his grave ; and with his last breath he
asked me to come here, and I promised."

George appeared almost stunned by the
news. *'A fresh shock for poor Kate," he
murmured. " How will she bear it ! " Then
turning to the man, he said aloud-' Come
this way, my man ; I must hear at once all
you have to tell."

Calling a boy to take the horse, he led the
way to his office, - closed the door, and
motioned his visitor to a chair.

Dead! " he repeated; "poor Sydney dead !
Well, this is a termination I never expected.
What caused his death ? "

*' He had the fever first, sir, and then never
rallied. It's a long story, but maybe you
would like to hear all from the beginning,
and how I first met him."

*' Yes, yes, I should. We have never heard

a word from him since he left here a year
ago."

** Well, sir," said the man, settling himself
with an air of one who has a long and important
tale to tell, " I'm an Englishman, as
you can see, but I had fought for three years
in the Paraguayan army, and never had a
scratch until the battle of Aquitain. Then
I was badly wounded, and lay in a hospital
at Asuncion six months, and a merciful
Providence alone knows how I managed to
pull through. When I got better, I stayed
on, and picked up a living somehow, for men
were scarce. But that won't interest you, sir,
so I'll skip on to last year. There was much
talk about the land being re-populated, and
government was doing all it could to persuade
people to go and settle again in the deserted
districts. There seemed a chance of making
something out of it, and I wanted money to
take me home ; so I thought I'd try my luck,
and joined a party going up the river. They
were mostly Spaniards, and Italians, and all
sorts of riff-raff, but among them was Mr.
Ferrars. We were very crowded in the boat,
and I didn't find him out at first, for he spoke

but little ; and then his Spanish was too good
for me to notice that it wasn't his native
language ; and I can speak their jabber pretty
well too, so maybe he didn't find me out.
But one day I was sitting near by, and he
was smoking, and looking so miserable that
I was about to speak in Spanish to cheer him
up a bit. Suddenly I heard him mutter quite
low, ' What a confounded fool I've been ! '
Then I spoke in English. He wasn't pleased
at first, and kept out of my way. But 
seemed to take to me a little ; and when
we reached the place where we were going
to settle, I asked, would he let me chum with
him ? First he said he wouldn't, but then he
consented ; and we built a log hut, and worked
and lived together. It was a place in the
forest, and had been well cultivated before the
war, but when we got there you couldn't tell
that man had ever touched the land. Vegetation
had grown over everything ; and it was
just like beginning from the beginning. We
had to work awful hard to get anything into
the ground before the hot weather was upon us.
We were to be employed. in the forest, cutting
down timber and getting rubber, and such likes

To think of poor Sydney at such work ! "
exclaimed George.

* Ay, ay, sir, it was hard upon a gentleman
born; and as the summer advanced the heat
was fearful, and we were almost eaten alive
by mosquitoes and other insects. Then our
stores often fell rather short, as the supplies
didn't come up very regular; and we had to
forage for ourselves how we could. Well, to
make a long story short, when autumn set in
fever came with it and first one was struck
down, and then another. All the time Mr.
Ferrars had been mighty reserved with me ;
but it was long since I had been thrown with
one of my own countrymen, and I grew as
fond of him as if he had been my brother.
It grieved me much to see how unhappy he
was ; and if I woke at night I could hear him
groan to himself when he thought none was
listening. You see, sir, I had been like that
myself once, cursing my hard fate, just ashe
did, so I could feel for him. Yes," said
the man sorrowfully, ** I was a downright
bad one until I was laid up in hospital at
Asuncion. I'd had a good mother, bless her !
but my father was hard. I got into bad

company, and disgraced myself, and ran away
to sea. I've served on a man-of-war, and in
the merchant service, but always the wildest
of the wild. At last I deserted from my ship
when she lay off Buenos A3res. The captain
was more than human flesh could stand. So
I persuaded a mate to come with me, and
we got away up country, and enlisted in
the Paraguayan army. It would take days
to tell all that happened, but through rough
and smooth I never lost the little Bible which
was my poor mother's last gift. * Take care
of it,' she said, with tears ; *I know my prayers
will be heard, and that the day will come when
you will read it and love it.' And the time
did come. For years and years I never
opened the book, but I took as great care of it
as these Catholics do of their rosaries. When
I was recovering in the hospital, a miserable
and wretched being, I had nothing else to
read ; so I took to my Bible, and from that
time I was a changed man. After that, you
see, sir, it took such a hold upon me that I
wanted every one else to feel the same. And
in particular, when I was thrown with Mr.
Ferrars, I wanted him to feel the comfort I did.
VOL. II. 20

But at first he wouldn't listen to any of my
talk, and shut me up. On Sundays we used
to take a rest, and I would sit in the shade
and read my Bible, but he would wander
away Into the forest by himself. At last, one
Sunday evening, he came upon me when I
was reading to myself; and I have a habit
of reading aloud, and had come to the words,

Comfort ye, comfort ye, my people.'

Williams,' he says, 'did you ever hear that
sung to music ? ' And then he sings it. I
never heard such singing before ; it went
straight through me, and I cried like any
child. After that, whenever I asked him of
a Sunday evening, he would sing something
out of the Bible, or hymns, or the Psalms
sometimes. The foreigners would come and
listen too, though they couldn't understand
a word. But it was beautiful!"

The man paused, as if the scene had risen
anew before his mind. Maybe he saw again
the semi-tropical vegetation, rendered yet
more mysteriously beautiful by the brilliant
moonlight. Maybe he heard again the
tones of Sydney's rich voice, ringing in the
night air, above all the wondrous whirr of

sound made by the insect life of tropic
night.

Then, with a long-drawn sigh, he proceeded,


*'Ah! it made me sad to think that of all
who listened to that beautiful singing the
heart of the singer, himself, was the least
touched and comforted. And so things went
on until the fever came. Then one night, after
we had blown out the light  we had to be
careful of our lights  I was praying by my
bedside, and I was praying for him. Without
knowing it, I must have spoke aloud, for Mr.
Ferrars sings out, ' What ! are you praying
still, Williams ? what is it all about ? ' * I was
praying for you, sir,' I said. He laughed
rather bitterly, and answered, * You had better
pray that I may catch the fever, to make an
end of me. You'll never get to sleep all night
if you do all the praying I need.' Then I says,
Very likely, sir, there are others praying for
you besides me, that will help to make it up
If you have women-folk, you may be sure
they'll be praying. I have reason myself to be
thankful for the prayers of a good woman.'
We neither said no more, but I heard him

groan and cry out, as if he couldn't bear himself,
when he thought I was asleep. Next night
he was down with the fever. For days he was
raving like anything; and then, when the fever
abated, and he was himself again, he was
quite changed. It was no good trying to
cheer him up about getting better, for he said
he knew he never should. But bit by bit he
told me all his history, and he would let me
read and pray to him as much as I liked. All
the rest is told in the letter. And," concluded
Williams, solemnly, " as I hope myself to be
saved, I believe he died a repentant and forgiven
man."

George had listened with the deepest
interest ; and now he drew a long breath.

Thank God for that," he said, reverently.

*say, sir," said Williams; *' he said you
were good people, and would be glad to hear.
But more than all he wanted his wife to
know."

Ah ! " said George, gravely, *' he required,
indeed, to repent of his conduct towards her."

" I know it, I know it," rejoined Williams,
eagerly; "and he did repent. But I take it he
was less to blame for going wrong than I had

been, sir; for when he lay-dying in my arms,
he looked up at me with his beautiful eyes,
and said, ' Kiss me, Williams  through my
own fault I have none to do it but you.' And
I stooped down, and kissed him twice on his
brow, and says, * I kiss you for your wife and
for your mother.*  Ah ! ' he says, * I do not
deserve that my wife should be here to kiss
me. And my poor mother, she loved me, and
will grieve when she hears of this ; but if she
had been like yours, Williams, maybe I should
not be lying here now. I think, if I had known
that my mother was praying for me, I couldn't
have gone so wrong.' It smote me to the
heart, sir, to hear him say that, for I had gone
wrong though knowing all the time that my

mother prayed."

Williams fell into a reverie, and there was

a silence of some minutes. Then George

asked, 

What was the date of my poor cousin's

death?"

The twenty-fifth of April, sir, as you may

know by this. That very morning he asked

what was the day of the month. I told him ;

and then he said  I could hardly hear, for his

voice was growing very weak and low  'A
year to-day since I was married.' He grew
weaker and weaker all that day, and at sundown
he breathed his last."

' So long ago as that!" said George.
** Then it has taken you some time to come
here."

'* It took me a week, sir, to get things settled
up; and then I had a brush with the fever
myself; not that it took much hold upon my
tough old hide, but it was June before I could
travel. We were nigh a week's journey from
the river, and it was not possible to go alone,
so I had to wait until the waggons were returning.
Then, when we were ready to start,
bad weather came ; and thus, with one delay
after another, the time has been taken up. But
I promised not to let the letter pass out of my
hands ; over and over again Mr. Ferrars made
me promise that."

There was another pause, broken once more
by George.

'* Have you the letter at hand ? I suppose
his poor wife must be told at once ; delay can
do no good."

From some mysterious recess beneath the

poncho Williams drew forth a bulky letter, the
envelope discoloured and travel-stained. He
laid it on the table, but kept his hand upon it.

*' Excuse me, sir, but shall you give this
yourself to the lady? "

"I don't suppose I shall," replied George.
*' I must get my wife to break the news. Poor
Mrs. Ferrars has been sorely tried. She lost
her child but three weeks ago,"

*' Indeed ! sir," exclaimed Williams ; ** that
is bad news. It comforted Mr. Ferrars to
think that she had that child more than anything
I could say. But asking your pardon,
I should have liked to deliver this letter myself,
but possibly that wouldn't do. Still, though it
may be only a foolish fancy, I would rather it
passed through but one other hand betwixt
mine and hers."

'* Very well," said George, rising; * I will
fetch my wife here. Perhaps it will be well
for her to speak with you before she tells
her sister."

** Stay a moment, sir," said Williams, " I
have one thing more to deliver."

So saying, he produced another package.
It was a small bundle of bank-notes. He

counted them over carefully before handing
them to George.

*' This is what remains of the money Mr.
Ferrars received a few days before his death.
He told me to make use of it to come herewith
the letter. I got something by selling
the few odds and ends we had there, so I
have not broken into it much, sir, as you will
see."

''My good fellow! I can't think of taking
it," exclaimed George. * I am sure he meant
you to keep it ; not that any money can ever
repay what you have done for him."

** If I understand rightly, sir, it is Mrs.
Ferrars' money," said the man quietly; 'sand I
would rather you took it back."

George said no more, but put the notes away
in his bureau. On turning again to Williams,
he said, 

I have quite forgotten all this time to offer
you any refreshment. You must need it after
your long ride."

"Sir," said Williams, solemnly, ''I could
neither have taken food nor drink in this house
until I had done my errand. I would rather
you brought your lady here first ; then there

will be time to think of eating. A man who
has gone through three years' campaigning
under Lopez thinks little of a day's work like
this."

With a heavy heart George left the room to
seek his wife. The office was close to the
kitchen, and he met her outside the door.

*why, George," she exclaimed, * what
have you been doing? Haven't you changed
your clothes yet? "

It was growing dark, and she could not see
his face until she was quite near. Then his
grave look startled her.

*' What is the matter?" she said; 'what
makes you look like that?"

I want to speak a word alone with you,"
he answered, somewhat evasively. " Where is
Kate ? "

In the nursery, reading to the children.
Keziah has a headache."

"Then come with me to the dining-room.
I have just received news of Sydney."

Mary followed, wondering.

Nearly half-an-hour had elapsed before
George, accompanied by his wife, returned to
the office. Williams sat where he had been

left, but Stood up on seeing the lady, and
made his salute, sailor-fashion.

Mary's eyes were red with weeping ; she
came forward and took his hand, and her
voice sounded unsteady.

 My husband tells me you were very good
to poor Sydney  we must all thank you."

*you have nothing to thank me for, my
lady," he answered, with tears in his own eyes.
*long before he died, I had got to love him
so that the pain would have been for any to
interfere and prevent me from tending him."

Then, partly questioned by Mary, and partly
of his own accord, he repeated much the same
account as he had given to George, of Sydney's
last days.

As she listened, her tender heart was touched
to the core. The wreck of the life that had
since promised so well, the brilliant talents
wasted, the youth and strength and beauty
laid low, all came home. How sad it seemed
to have died thus, far from every comfort to
which he had been born, far from the hands
which should have tended his last moments !
And yet, had not a brighter gleam of better
things come in that rude hut than he had ever

known in more prosperous scenes ? The
picture was not all dark ; and the sorrow over
his last hours might well be tempered by
rejoicing.

At last Williams gave her the letter.

** You will give it to his lady with your own
hands? " he asked, anxiously.

*' Yes, certainly," said Mary; and then she
rose to seek her sister, with trembling limbs,
and lips that she felt were white.

SYDNEY S LETTER.

When Kate had finished reading to the
children, she had g-one to her room. A few
minutes before Mary knocked at the door she
was sitting on the low bed, and in her hand
lay a tiny golden curl. She did not weep,
but the look on her face spoke too plainly of
the heart-hunger that every true mother must
feel for a lost darling.

The grief she felt was very deep, but this
time it was a grief without bitterness. To
her, it seemed that the blow had come directly
from above ; there was no perplexing admixture
of sin, either that of another or her
own, to increase its weight a thousandfold.
Though her heart bled sorely, she neither
murmured nor rebelled. And many quaint
and childlike fancies were present to give her
comfort.

The thought of the mother, whom she could
not remember, had ever been dear to her
imagination. As a child she had-clung to it
lovingly; and since she had herself become a
mother she realized more than ever what her
loss had been in never knowing a mother's
love. And now that her babe had passed
from her earthly ken to the unknown world
beyond the grave, she thought still more of
the young mother who had gone before ; and
the thought gave birth to a new consolation.
*she will take care of my baby," she reasoned
with herself, *' until I go to join them both."

Kate had risen from the bed, and, pressing
her lips to the little curl, had laid it tenderly
away, when she heard a knock.

Without waiting for an answer, Mary
entered. She could not trust herself to pause,
for fear her courage should altogether fail.

The room was lighted by a solitary candle,
and when Kate turned towards her sister the
light fell full on Mary's face. With the quick
intuition of one on whom several heavy blows
had already fallen, Kate saw that she was the
bearer of bad news  news, too, that concerned
herself. Her lips turned ashy white.

** Mary ! what have you come to tell me ? "

For answer, Mary drew her to the low bed,
sitting down at her side, for her own limbs
trembled so that she could not stand. Then
she laid Kate's head upon her breast, and
Kate could feel a tear fall down upon her
cheek as Mary bent to kiss her brow.

** Poor child ! can you bear to hear ? "

*' Yes," said Kate, in a low voice ; ** I can
bear anything now."

'news has come of Sydney," said Mary,
briefly ; for however much she might wish todo
so, she could form no long sentences with
which to tell her tale.

Kate looked full in Mary's face ; then
drooped her head again.

*' I see," she murmured,  'rit is bad
news."

*not altogether bad, dear," said Mary, ina
caressing tone, as soothing a child in pain.
** He has sent you a long letter, which I know
you will like to read."

"Oh, Mary! give it to me at once," cried
Kate, eagerly.

*' No, dear, wait a minute. You must know
first that he has written you this letter because

he could not come back  because he has gone
a long, long journey, to a place where he will
be quite safe  where you need "never be
troubled or anxious about him any more*

A sudden start  a stifled sob  and Mary
knew that Kate had guessed the truth.

Mary was silent, only folding her arms
more closely around the girl ; for in truth she
was but a girl, though a widowed and childless
mother. Presently Mary spoke again, in
low tones broken by her tears.

'* There is a great deal that will comfort
you to hear, darling. You must not grieve
too sorely. Before he died he was very, very
sorry for all that he had done wrong ; and we
may feel sure that One who is ever ready to
forgive has forgiven him."

And by degrees Mary told all that she had
heard from Williams. When she had finished
there was a long silence, but at length Kate
spoke.

** Mary, give me the letter now ; and then
please leave me by myself  to read it."

She rose to her feet, but caught hold of
the bedstead, as if dizzy and needing support.
Mary rose too, and looked in Kate's face

anxiously; but seeing her composed, though
very pale, she complied with her request.

When Mary had gone, Kate sat down with
the letter in her hand ; but it was long before
she broke the seal. Such a length of time
had elapsed since she had seen Sydney and
their married life had been so short, that a
strange feeling of unreality prevailed above
all others. Was she really a married woman 1
Was it really a letter from her dead husband
that she held ? If this were so, she must bea
widow. Then why did she not weep ? why
did she only feel stunned and cold, as if the
loss were that of another, and not her own ?
How dreadful not to feel it more ! how heartless
she must be !

At last, to break the icy spell which had
taken possession of her being, she opened the
letter, and unfolded the paper on which were
inscribed her husband's farewell words. She
knew already from Mary that the letter had
been written from Sydney's dictation, so the
circumstance that it was not in his own
handwriting created no surprise. She turned
the pages over, and saw that it had been
penned at three or four different times, and

that it ended abruptly. Then she read it
slowly:  .

** My dear Wife,  Let me call you so
once more, for I am a dying man. I have
no longer strength to hold a pen, and a kind
fellow who has nursed me well is writing this
at my dictation. Since leaving Santa Rosa
I have taken all possible pains to conceal my
whereabouts. Twice I have changed my
name ; hence, if you have written to me it is
my own fault that I have never received a
letter. Yet Heaven alone knows how I long
for some token of your forgiveness before I
die. There is no chance of any such reaching
me ; it is part of my punishment, and I must
bear it. Still, I cannot die in peace without
writing these few lines. Good and gentle as
I know you to be, I entertain a hope that
they will lead you to pity and forgive one who
has so wronged you, even if your forgiveness
is not already mine. I do not wish to make
excuses for the past, and have hardly any
right to expect that I shall be believed when
saying that I loved you truly at the time of
our marriage, and had the most earnest in-vol.

II. 2 1

mentions of making you a good husband. I
see now that my life had been made up of
good intentions  intentions made only to be
broken. It was so easy to resolve beforehand
never to gamble, or drink beyond moderation ;
but so difficult to resist the temptation when
it came. I had no horror of these things as
sins  no motive to fortify me against them,
beyond the worldly disgrace and inconvenience
they might bring. Old age and death seemed
far; and I gave no thought to what was to
come hereafter. Heaven knows how differently
all appears now, when but a few days of
life remain ! Though I did not listen to them,
some scruples of conscience troubled me when
marrying you with my true circumstances
concealed. I believe I should have stopped
short of such dishonourable conduct had not
Julia urged me forward. She meant well, and
loved me, but  stay ! I am throwing blame
on her. Shall I never learn to see myself
in unvarnished colours  to accept the consequences
of my own actions ? Yet I meant
to reform on our marriage, and flattered myself
with the belief that we should arrive at Buenos
Ayres in time to stop all action on the part

of my creditors ; that your money would put
everything straight, and then by diligence
and hard work I should b'able to make up
for the past. You know too well how all this
ended. When Thorpe met us on the steamer,
he brought word that the creditors had seized
and sold the estania. I ought to have told
you at the time  would that I had ! Instead,
I listened to Thorpe when he proposed the
gaming table as an easy means of increasing
my capital, and enabling me to start again
with fairer prospects than before. At first I
won, and thought to withdraw; but once under
the spell no power of resistance remained.
Your manifest pain and sorrow at times
irritated me  at times made me resolve to
break away from Thorpe, tell you all, and
throw myself upon your mercy. But before
these better resolutions bore fruit, Thorpe was
again at my elbow. After the first I lost
steadily, but still went on, in the desperate
hope that luck would turn, and then I would
leave the gaming-table for ever.

*****

' It is two days since Williams wrote for me.
I have been worse, but I must go on while

Strength remains. At last I tore myself away
from Thorpe and Buenos Ayres, with the
resolve to place you in safety with your sister
before the end came. I had still some five
hundred pounds of your money. You know
show Thorpe  sleuth-hound that he was 
followed us to Santa Rosa, and our first night
there saw me utterly ruined. Up to this time
I had looked upon him as a friend, for he
played his cards only too well. I was blind
to the fact that I was but a tool in his hands.
He provided me with the necessary funds to
take you to Mercedes. Little did I guess that
it was my own money he was lending me with
such open-heartiness ! He made so many
professions of sorrow at my losses, and
blamed himself so much for his unfortunate
advice, that I  fool that I was  fully believed
him. Can you wonder that I was by that time
a desperate man ? On quitting you I hardly
cared what happened ; and when I returned to
Santa Rosa, and learned that Thorpe had
actually boasted of his cleverness in clearing
me out ; when it was proved that he had been
working hand and glove with the gambling
houses,  then my desperation turned to madness.

But he had taken care to get beyond
my reach He left Santa Rosa the same day
that we did, and on the riext was to sail for
Valparaiso. I had no means of following him.
Thank Heaven that I had not ! or to-day
there might have been a murder on my
conscience. How the hours passed before I
joined the emigrants I cannot tell. I have
only a vague recollection that the thought of
you alone prevented me from committing
suicide. To me, suicide appeared the best
thing I could do for yQ.ur good, but I knew
you would not think so. In all my troubles
my one consoling reflection was this  that you
yet possessed sufficient property to keep you
independent. I was totally miserable ; I cared
not what became of me. My only desire was
to hide myself from the sight of all who knew
my past. It mattered not that the life I was
to lead was rough and hard. I took an
almost savage pleasure in working until utterly
wearied. But remorse rather than repentance
raged within ; and I cried with Cain, * My
punishment is greater than I can bear.' Yet
Providence was kind, and sent as a true friend
this good man Williams. Thorpe had been

as a fiend, luring me to destruction  Williams
has come as a messenger of hope.

# * * * *

* I have grown much weaker the last few days
the end cannot be far off. Williams has co
sit close by to hear my voice. He tells me
that the waggon train will be here this week,
and may bring letters. After the fever, and
when I had recovered consciousness, we sent
the fullest instructions to Asuncion for letters
to be forwarded to me here. May I receive
them ! and then I shall have no longer any
wish to live. I have listened to Williams
while he has read and prayed, until a faint
hope has come that dying now I may be
forgiven. I cling to this ; but were I to
return to battle with the world, what certainty
could I have of becoming wiser than before ?
No ! better far to die. I feel so wearied as to
long for rest. Before I was down with fever,
nothing but despair possessed me  now, I
scarce know why, despair has passed away ;
and if I could I would not live. To-day the
thought of my parents has been much present
with me. Lying helpless on my bed, memories
of old days came surging on. Once more I

seemed to be in Belton Church, listening to
your father's words as he addressed the
children  words almost the last he ever spoke.
Possibly my own parents may not shed over
me the tears he meant, but I have caused them
much pain and sorrow. Would that I had
not ! Let them know this, Kate. I have no
time or strength to write all that I would say.
And poor Julia ! she loved me well, and acted
with more kindness to me than ever I showed
to her. Tell her that I remembered this in my
dying hours.

* # # *

** Thank Heaven ! your letters have come.
The one which most rejoices my heart is that
which tells of the birth of your child  your
child, I say, for 1 feel to have forfeited all
right to call him mine. And yet, teach him
to think tenderly of his father. When he is
old enough, tell him that I died blessing him ;
and praying that he might grow to be the man
his father should have been. I am glad you
called him William ; far better than that he
should be named from me. How can I thank
you, sweet wife, for the goodness and tenderness
which breathes through your every line ?

I cannot, but they have fallen like drops of
balm on a broken heart. I have told Williams
that when I am dead he is to make use of the
money you have sent for his journey. He has
promised to deliver this letter himself, and at
any cost. I must trust to you to repay him in
some small measure for what he has done forme.



% %  % %

I have grown very, very weak. I think this
is the last time I shall be able to dictate.
Williams says it is the twenty-fourth of April
one year tomorrow since we were married.
Oh ! could I but re-live that one last year !
But such regrets are vain. Williams has just
been reading the history of the dying thief.
He has read those verses many times. They
give me comfort ; and am I wrong in hoping
that my repentance, though so late, may bring
a like forgiveness ? I am tired  very, very
tired  too tired to be afraid of death. May
Heaven grant that this quiet is no fresh self-deception.
And you, have you not forgiven ?
What right have 1 to dream of more ? and

yet "

% % % % %

'* I, Reuben Williams, do hereby certify that
I wrote the above at the dictation of Sydney
Wyndham Ferrars, Esq., and I do solemnly
declare that I neither added one word thereto,
nor took one word therefrom. He left off as
above, falling into a fainting fit ; from which
I did with great difficulty recover him. From
that hour it was easy to see that his end was
near. One fainting fit followed another, until
next day, at eventide, he closed his eyes forever
on this sorrowful world. On the following
day I buried his remains, reading over him
such parts out of the Bible as belong to the
Burial Service, not having a Prayer-book. I
made note of the spot, that any time I could
find it again, if required."

Mary left her sister alone for some time. At
last she went to the door and knocked softly.
There was no answer, and she entered. Kate
was kneeling by the bedside, but the opening
of the door caught her ear. Her eyes were
moist with weeping ; for the tears she could
not shed at first had flowed freely over the
letter. And yet her face bore an expression

akin to joy. She quickly rose, and threw
herself into Mary's arms.

*' Oh ! Mary dear, am I very wicked? I
cannot help feeling so thankful that his death
has been like this."

In truth this was the thought which first
came home to the young widow. The many
months of separation from her husband, which
had followed so closely on their marriage,
mitigated the acute sense of personal loss.
The death of her child had left a far greater
and more lasting blank in her daily life.
During all those weary months since Sydney
went away, she had been unable to subdue the
torturing anxiety which assailed her as to what
might have become of him. At last this great
burden was lifted from her heart. She had
the fullest assurance that he had died a
peaceful death.

As the days went on, tender and sorrowful
regrets did indeed arise, and threatened almost
to overwhelm her. She remembered no more
the trials and disappointments which had
succeeded the first bright hours of their
married life. She recalled rather her early
hopes that their union would be one of mutual

love and support. Then the weary heartache
would come ; and tears would not be restrained
when she thought of 'the happiness
which might have been theirs had Sydney
recovered from that bed of sickness, and
returned to her an altered man.

Sorrow and mourning were her present
portion  though softened by the tender affection
of those around, and brightened by
gleams of heaven-born comfort. And sorrow
is sorrow, and pain is pain, even to the most
gentle and submissive.

Reuben Williams remained with the Ram-says
for several weeks. Kate saw and talked
to him many times, learning the minutest
details of Sydney's last days. It was a pathetic
history for a wife to hear, and caused many
tears to fall. At last Mary thought that
dwelling so constantly upon these sorrowful
reminiscences was doing her harm, and privately
begged George to hasten Reuben's departure.

With the adaptability of a sailor, the latter
had made himself quite one of the family.
The two Ramsay boys were at home for their
midwinter holidays; and they became his
shadows  listening with rapture to his yarns,

and watching his clever hands making boats
for their amusement. Like most sailors, he
was fond of children, and took the greatest
pleasure not only in the boys, but in the two
little girls ; but he treated the latter with a
more deferential fondness.

When George spoke to him about the future,
he found that Williams was most anxious to
return to England, as he cherished the hope
that his mother might still be living, though
he had not heard of her for years. Kate and
George both tried in vain to press upon him
a considerable gift of money ; but he would
take nothing beyond a small sum sufficient to
defray his expenses to Buenos Ayres, and leave
him something in his pocket on landing at
home. His passage, he said, he could work
out. When at last he started, there were loud
lamentations from the children, and the good
fellow vainly strove to hide his tears.

A FATEFUL DAY.

The bells were pealing right merrily from the
old church-tower at Belton. The village wore
its holiday aspect ; for that morning there had
been a special service to celebrate the reopening
of its church. And clergy and laity,
high and low, rich and poor, had gathered
together from many miles around to do honour
to the venerable and reconstructed fane.

The Bishop of the Diocese had been present,
and on the conclusion of the service had repaired
to the rectory, where the rector and
his wife hospitably entertained his Lordship
and many other friends. The Bishop left
immediately after luncheon, but not so the
other guests.

The day  it was the early part of September
was exquisitely lovely. It was one of the last

and watching his clever hands making boats
for their amusement. Like most sailors, he
was fond of children, and took the greatest
pleasure not only in the boys, but in the two
little girls ; but he treated the latter with a
more deferential fondness.

When George spoke to him about the future,
he found that Williams was most anxious to
return to England, as he cherished the hope
that his mother might still be living, though
he had not heard of her for years. Kate and
George both tried in vain to press upon him
a considerable gift of money; but he would
take nothing beyond a small sum sufficient to
defray his expenses to Buenos Ayres, and leave
him something in his pocket on landing at
home. His passage, he said, he could work
out. When at last he started, there were loud
lamentations from the children, and the good
fellow vainly strove to hide his tears.

A FATEFUL DAY.

The bells were pealing right merrily from the
old church-tower at Belton. The village wore
its holiday aspect ; for that morning there had
been a special service to celebrate the reopening
of its church. And clergy and laity,
high and low, rich and poor, had gathered
together from many miles around to do honour
to the venerable and reconstructed fane.

The Bishop of the Diocese had been present,
and on the conclusion of the service had repaired
to the rectory, where the rector and
his wife hospitably entertained his Lordship
and many other friends. The Bishop left
immediately after luncheon, but not so the
other guests.

The day  it was the early part of September
was exquisitely lovely. It was one of the last

lingering days of summer, as bright and
glorious as any that had gone before. No
frost had yet come to lay a nipping hand upon
the flowers, or rob the rich foliage of its dark
green tint. The garden still blazed with the
gorgeous colouring of geraniums, dahlias,
hollyhocks, and the later summer flowers. And
so what wonder that the visitors remained to
enjoy the beauty of the day, and dawdle over
the opportunity for pleasant intercourse ?

Upon such an occasion the clergy were, of
course, in great prominence among the groups
which spread themselves upon the lawn. But
many of the county families were also represented,
and the black coats of the reverend
gentlemen served only to relieve the brighter
colours worn by the ladies.

Beyond a curate here and there, few young
unmarried men were present, and perhaps
that was the reason why Mrs. Stephens found
it so difficult to obtain a chance of speaking
to Roger North. Roger appeared to be in
great request, detained now by a matron, now
by a maiden in her teens. Mrs. Stephens
grew quite irritable. She had been trying to
get near him ever since they had left the

church, and had not yet succeeded. At last,
out on the lawn, he caught sight of her for
the first time ; and, disengaging himself from
a gay group, came towards her.

How do you do, Mrs. Stephens ? Where
have you been hiding ? I have never seen
you all day except at a distance."

' No wonder in this crowd," she replied,
quickly recovering her good humour; ''I never
saw the old garden and house so thronged
before. I was glad to see you in church, for
Mr. Hill had been alarming himself all the
week lest you should not return in time from
Scotland."

*' He need not have been afraid," said
Roger, quietly. " We reached home early
yesterday morning. I was down here in the
afternoon to see that all was right, but had
no time to come and see you, for our visitors
were arriving."

"Ah, I have seen Agatha and Mr. Leslie
too."

Yes," answered Roger, smiling; ' it was
an old promise that they should both be here
if the church were re opened before Michaelmas."


a grave concerned look came over his face.
Then she turned round, and hurried back to
the lawn to preclude any further questioning.

Mrs. Stephens experienced a sense of relief
when the letter had been transferred from ' her
keeping to that of Roger ; and coming across
a lady friend, she entered into conversation
with more of her usual vivacity than she had
shown that day. The ladies had been chatting
together a few minutes when the voice of
Major Stephens fell upon his wife's ear. What
was he saying ?

Ah ! sad news, isn't it ? Poor Kate, whom
we used to see running about here so merrily,
has lost both her husband and child."

At the risk of incivility to her friend, Mrs.
Stephens turned her head to look reprovingly
at the Major. Had she not made him faithfully
promise that he would not mention the
news that they had heard ? She had not, indeed,
given him her real reason for desiring
silence, but had grounded it upon the score of
casting a gloom on this day's gathering, where
so many of those assembled were old friends,
who both knew and loved Kate. The Major
had agreed and promised, but, as usual,



had forgotten the injunction and remembered
the news, and now the first moitient it recurred
to his mind he was blurting it out.

But on turning round Mrs. Stephens forgot
to telegraph her warning signals, for the first
face she saw was Roger's. That he had
heard Major Stephens' words was only too
plain. His lips were deadly white ; and his
face, beneath the sunburn, had grown of a
livid hue.

' Did you wish to speak to Major Stephens ? "
inquired the other lady, stopping the flow of
her conversation in some surprise at her companion's
apparent rudeness.

'* Oh no, I beg your pardon," said Mrs.
Stephens, with a little gasp. *' What were
you telling me about Edmund?"

And when she managed again to glance
round Roger had disappeared.

Mrs. Stephens felt exceedingly annoyed.
Her husband had completely frustrated all her
plans so carefully conceived to spare Roger
the pain of betraying his feelings. She had
even exercised some self-denial in the matter,
for she was not above the weakness of experiencing
a pleasurable excitement in the

repetition of an important piece of news. She
had foregone all this, and even left matters so
that many people, whom she might have enlightened,
would probably learn what she could
have told from the columns of the Times.
And all for nothing ! She, herself, had far
better have told Roger after some little preparation.
It was too bad of the Major, and
she became rather oblivious of outward things
while busying her brain with the composition
of a wifely lecture. At last a consoling thought
occurred. There was one person who should
hear of these sad events from her lips, and
no other. Having made up her mind, Mrs.
Stephens took an early opportunity to disengage
herself from the group of friends on
the lawn, and walked towards the house.

She ascended the two or three stone steps
leading to the drawing-room, and entered by
the open window. A few of the older ladies
had remained there, preferring the comfort of
an armchair to the fatigue of standing in the
garden. Mrs Stephens looked round ; then
she went and sat down by the one she sought
no other than Mrs. North.

From the earliest days of their acquaintanceship

a quiet antagonism had always existed
between the two. Each was a shrewd woman
in her way. Each saw very plainly the weaknesses
of the other, and regarded them with
but little tenderness. This feeling had
deepened very materially at the time when the
one desired that her young friend, the other
that her favourite niece, should become Roger's
wife. They still kept up an outward show
of civility ; but often dealt each other many
a sharp word-thrust. Perhaps Mrs. North
might have let her dislike lead to a more
decided cessation of intercourse had it not
been that she really liked the Major. So much
of her life, and all the younger and more active
part of it, had been passed with her husband's
regiment, that the society of a military man
gave her pleasure; and a talk with him brought
back memories which touched a tender spot.

When Mrs. Stephens sat down by Mrs.
North, she knew perfectly well that the news
she had come to tell would be far from welcome,
and from that very fact she experienced
a secret pleasure. She felt in a vengeful
mood, and determined to give rein to her
tongue, whatever might be the consequences.

She was at heart the most kindly of women,
but her vivacity and quick temper often led
to results which she regretted extremely when
too late.

These kinds of gatherings make one miss
the dear old rector, don't they, Mrs. North ? "
she began, on sitting down.

** Yes, indeed they do."

Mrs. North spoke with real sincerity, both
because she had held Mr. Galbraith in high
esteem, and because many of the changes
Mr. Hill had made by no means met with
her unqualified approval.

** And poor dear Kate too!" continued Mrs.
Stephens ; ** I have thought the more of them
both to-day, owing to the sad news we have
just received."

'what news?" asked Mrs. North, with
brows contracting.

'* Have you not heard ? The last mail has
brought us word of the death of her child, and
of her husband."

Mrs. Stephens fixed her eye on her companion
to note every change of countenance,
and she saw Mrs. North's lips turn white 
white as Roger's had done.

*' Young Ferrars dead!" said Mrs. North,
slowly; ' I thought he had gone away Into the
backwoods. It maybe some mistaken report."

*' Not at all," replied Mrs. Stephens; 'there
is no doubt about the truth. An English
sailor, who nursed him, brought word to the
Ramsayss. He was also the bearer of a last
letter to Kate, from her unfortunate husband."

' Indeed ! " remarked Mrs. North : and she
fell into silence.

*' Ah ! well," said Mrs. Stephens, " it is very
sad for the poor child; but it may be the
prelude to brighter days. She is so young,
not one-and-twenty yet, that we may hope
time will soften the trouble she has gone
through. I trust she will return to live with
her uncle ; and then, who knows but that she
may make a second and a happier marriage ? "

*'I do not approve of second marriages,"
remarked Mrs. North, in her coldest tone.

Neither do I, as a rule," replied the other,
*but surely this case is exceptional. Why,
she may live until she is seventy ; and you
would not have her spend fifty years of life
in mourning the husband of a few months,
and one, too, who treated her so badly?"

** We must lie upon our beds as we make
them for ourselves," said Mrs. North; *' I
always considered Kate's character to be
frivolous, and she justified my opinion when
she married that worthless young man. But
no doubt you are perfectly correct in the
supposition that her grief will be ephemeral,
and that she will marry again."

** Poor child ! you are really very hard upon
her. Remember how young she was, with no
mother or older friend to guide her judgment.
However, fortunately for Kate there are others
who estimate her character very differently."

Mrs. North bit her lip.

** At least, Mrs. Stephens, I think you must
agree with me that she is too newly-made
a widow for the discussion of her second
marriage to be seemly."

'* Undoubtedly she would be the first to
agree with you," replied Mrs. Stephens, somewhat
nettled ; *' but as her friend I cannot be
expected to mourn the loss of her worthless
husband ; and there can be no impropriety on
my part in looking forward to a happier future
for the poor child."

* Certainly not, if it pleases you," said Mrs.



North, icily. ' Excuse me," she added, "but
I see Mr. Hill, and will ask him to allow me to
order my carriage. It is time we were leaving."

She rose, and walked across the room in her
stateliest manner, leaving Mrs. Stephens with
the uncomfortable feeling that she herself hadn't
escaped unscathed from their passage of arms.

Mr. Hill was standing in the window, and
when Mrs. North had made her request about
the carriage she saw a group of boys on the
garden path. Among them was Charlie North,
and she beckoned him towards her.

Charlie, run and find Miss Blythe, and tell
her that I am going home. I heard her say
something about walking with Roger, but if she
has changed her mind the carriage shall return
for her. We are too many all to go at once."

'all right, aunt;" and the boy ran off.
He found Agatha walking on the lawn with
some other ladies. He broke in upon their
conversation in abrupt school-boy fashion.

" I say. Miss Blythe, Aunt Sophia is going
home now. If you don't want to walk she
says she'll send the carriage back for you."

** Thank you, Charlie ; please tell her I
prefer to walk."

The boy returned with the message, and
Agatha remained with her companions. But
the garden was rapidly thinning as carriage
after carriage rolled away from the front door.
Agatha began to think it was time to leave,
and looked about for Roger, but could not see
him anywhere. Presently Leslie came up.

*' Have you seen Roger, Mr. Leslie?" she
asked. *' He arranged that we were to walk
home together, and I think it is time to start."

*' I will soon find him," answered Leslie;
and he set off at once in his energetic way to
search through the garden. But he returned
unsuccessful.

*' He is nowhere in the house or the garden,
Miss Blythe, and someone tells me that he
went away nearly an hour ago. It is quite
clear that he has forgotten all about you."

'* How strange ! " said Agatha, the colour
mounting to her face. " It is so unlike Roger
to forget anybody."

** Won't you trust me to escort you home? "

*' Oh yes, of course, but " and Agatha

stopped, rather confused.

"Ah ! I see," said Leslie, pretending to be
hurt; " you have not forgotten our adventure

on the ice. But I assure you that I will be as
steady as old Time, and am quite to be trusted
to help you over stiles, and to protect you
from cows."

*' Mr. Leslie ! you know I was not thinking
of that," said Agatha, rather indignantly.
* Ah, there is Charlie," she added, apparently
glad of a diversion. ' I expect he will prefer
our company to a solitary walk;" and she
went up and asked him.

'i'm not going home yet, Miss Blythe,"
he answered. '* I shall stay here for tea. It's
all right,  Roger said I might."

So Agatha saw that she could do no more ;
and after seeking out Mrs. Hill to say good-bye,
she returned to the spot where Leslie waited.

You will go by the fields, won't you. Miss
Blythe ? " he said, persuasively, as they turned
out of the gate, '* if only to show that you trust
yourself to my protection. Were you to
refuse, I should believe that you still harbour
forgiveness in your heart."

What could Agatha do but laugh and give
her consent ? And so they started along the
pleasant field path. In her heart of hearts
she was far from regretting the accident which

had thrown them alone together; nor would
she have minded had the walk been longer.
What companionship could there be for her
to compare with that of Leslie ? More
especially when he dropped his lighter mood,
and began to converse seriously, as though
sure of a sympathetic listener.

And Leslie ? How was it that he bared his
heart to this gentle, sweet-voiced woman ashe
could not even to his favourite sister ?
How could this be, unless mysterious chords of
love and sympathy were blending their lives
for time and for eternity ?

At last, by a little gate leading from the
park, they reached a shrubbery walk. And
inside the gate there was a rustic bench,
beneath a shady oak.

'' Don't go indoors yet, Miss Blythe," said
Leslie ; *' sit down here awhile."

His tone was so authoritative that Agatha 
she questioned not why  obeyed.

Leslie threw himself on the grass at her
feet, and there was a silence, broken only by
the twittering and singing of the birds overhead,
and the distant sound of the sweet church bells.

At first Leslie lay on the short turf with his



Upraised face gazing into the depths of the
pure sky. Then he turned over, and began to
tear the grass with his strong, nervous fingers.
** Miss Blythe," he said, with his breath
coming rather short and fast, ' I want to ask
you something. You know the sort of life
which I have long made up my mind that
mine must be. The call has come from above,
and I must obey it. At present it seems as
if my first object  that of missionary work 
were laid aside ; but I am ready at any time
to take it up when I clearly see that it is right
to do so. Meanwhile, my lot cannot be in the
pleasant, smooth places of the earth. As far
as I can tell I shall remain in the Black
Country, or the East-end of London, if I do
not leave England. I have put my hand to
the plough, and God grant that only sickness
or death may ever cause me to turn back.
Now tell me, has a man with his mind so made
up a right to ask any woman to share his lot ?
Loving her with the truest human love, he
would still have to say, ' Your interest, your
convenience, must always through life come
second to my Master's.' Tell me, had he not
better put away all thought of marriage 1 "

Though Agatha's eyes were turned away,
and fixed on the distant hills, she felt Leslie's
keen glance, and that he was waiting for
an answer. A moment before, she had been
trembling with emotion ; but now an unexpected
courage took possession of her gentle
nature. She turned, and faced him bravely.

''No," she said, and her voice though low
was clear; ''if the woman such a man loves
be a true woman, she can desire no happier
lot than to share and aid his labours. She
would glory in the love which placed her
second to One Other. She would know thereby
that its worth was increased tenfold. It is
given to few women themselves to do great
deeds; but for a woman to share the life of
one who has devoted himself to the highest
work  what more blessed lot can she desire ? "

Leslie sprang to his feet ; and stood before
her with both hands outstretched,

"Agatha! you have made me dare to ask
you  will you share such a life with me? "

Agatha raised her eyes to his earnest face ;
laid her two hands in his strong grasp ; and,
with a quick joy, answered in steadfast tones, 

' I wilL"

tF  'P  

Meanwhile, what had become of Roger ?
The news which he had learnt from Major
Stephens came with such startling suddenness
that he was conscious at first of nothing but
an intense desire to be alone and to read the
letter. Forgetful of Agatha and all else, he
left the rectory garden and hurried homewards
by the shortest path. On reaching the
house he did not go to the study, but sought
his own bedroom, where he would be most
secure from interruption. Even then he locked
the door before taking the letter from his pocket.
He felt it was impossible so much as to think
until he knew more details of what had happened.

The letter from Mrs. Ramsay was not long.
She was by no means fluent with her pen, and had
contented herself by giving the main facts of the
two deaths with but few particulars or comments.

Tears filled Roger's eyes as he read of the
baby's death. Then he read on ; and, when
he had finished, sat for a long time still and
thoughtful.

The room was strangely bare and simple
in its appointments for the bedroom of the
master of a large house. It was the same he

had slept in from boyhood, and few changes
had been made in it since. The floor had
only a strip of carpet ; a narrow iron bedstead
stood in one corner, and the other furniture
was all of the simplest kind. *A few photographs
and engravings of good pictures hung
upon the walls ; and a little hanging bookshelf
near the bed contained a few favourite
well-worn volumes. The only handsome piece
of furniture was a large antique cabinet.

When Roger rose at last, he walked straight
to the old cabinet, and unlocked and opened
the outer doors. Within were several rows of
miniature drawers, and he put his hand on one
of these and drew it out ; but it was hard to
open, as if not often touched. He took from
inside an envelope, and from that a little
faded bunch of violets. He looked at them
a long while, and then suddenly and impetuously
pressed them to his lips.

Once before he had done the same ; and
then they had been resolutely put by  though
not forgotten.

CHAPTER

I. IN Plena  IN NUBIBUS

II. TAKEN BY SURPRISE .

III. LADY ISAAC'S STORY .

IV. CALLED TO ACCOUNT .
V. A PARTIE Carre

VI. SIR LEOPOLD'S HEART
VII. MAPLE PLACE .
VIII. CHE SARA, SARA
IX. AN OLD HOME A NEW TROUBLE
X. MRS. NORTH RELENTS
XI. KATE'S VISITOR
XII. AT LAST

XIII. RE-UNITED

XIV. UNTIL DEATH

I






9*1










IN Plena IN NUBIBUS.

Within the drawing-room of a country house,
situated in the south of England, was assembled
a family group. The room was long, though
somewhat narrow, and lighted at each end by
deeply-mullloned windows. Originally there
had been two rooms, but these had been thrown
into one, and were now only separated by wide
folding-doors. Though early In September, the
day had turned chilly ; for rain had fallen all the
afternoon, and a fire looked pleasant and seasonable.
Outside, the garden, as seen indistinctly
through diamond panes, appeared grey and
gloomy ; but within the firelight blazed and
sparkled, casting bright reflections on the
polished woodwork, and giving a ruddier glow
to the rosy faces and shining hair of the
children there assembled.

VOL. III. I

It was between the hours of five and six,
a time which with many families is emphatically
the children's hour.

Near the fire sat the mother. She held a
three-year-old girl, blue-eyed and golden-haired,
in her arms; while a sturdy boy, a year or so
older, pressed his eager face against her shoulder.
Both the children were looking at the gaudy
pictures in a volume which the mother held ;
both were listening with the deepest interest
to the adventures of" Puss-in-Boots," as though
they had not heard them twenty times before.

Beyond the open folding-doors could be seen
another group. Seated on the floor was a girl
of barely twelve, and by her side a toddling
baby brother. With one hand she built towers
of bricks, with the other held him back, until
screaming with joyous laughter he escaped her
grasp, and In a moment his mischief-loving
hands had levelled her structure to the ground.

In the same room as the mother other
members of the family were gathered round
a table  two school boys, a girl of ten, and a
younger boy. These were occupied with a
race game, and the mother looked up from
time to time when their voices grew noisy over

some piece of good fortune or the reverse.
By-and-bye the eldest boy, tired of the game,
and leaving the rest, came and flung himself
upon the hearth rug at his mothers feet.

'' I say, mother, will Aunt Agatha be back
before we return to school ? "

I am afraid not, dear."

"What a bore!" said the boy, rolling over
on the rug. *' She promised that she would
help me to arrange my stamp book, and lots
of things. The girls are no good for anything
of that sort. When shall you hear from
her, mother ? "

To-day perhaps. There may be a letter
by the afternoon post."

'' Oh, mamma, don't talk to Ralp, please goon,"
said two little eager voices.

So Mrs. Maxwell resumed the interrupted
story ; and Ralp, after rolling about discontentedly
for a while, suddenly thought he would
go and see if the post had arrived. He was
absent some ten minutes, and returned with
a leathern bag in his hand. Meanwhile, the
nurses had taken the three youngest children
away, and the eldest girl had joined her
mother.

Ralp sat down again on the hearth rug, unlocked
the bag, and proceeded to sort the
letters.

'' One  two  three  for you, mother," he
said, tossing them towards her. '' Ah ! here's
another  four, and that is Aunt Aggie's writing.
Do open it first, and let me know which day
she comes home. Here, Lizzie, get out of the
way, and let the mother read in peace."

'' I want to know just as much as you do,"
said Lizzie. " It will be horrid if she is not
here when Miss Sharp returns. You don't
know how cross Miss Sharp always is the first
few days. She says it is low spirits because of
leaving home ; but if any of us were like that
it would be called nothing but ill-temper. But
when Aunt Agatha comes and talks with her,
she is never half so disagreeable."

Mrs. Maxwell had opened her sister's letter.
After reading a few lines she uttered a cry
of surprise.

What is it, mamma ? what is the matter ?"
cried Lizzie.

Be quiet, Liz, can't you ? " said Ralp, in a
low tone, and giving his sister a warning kick.
*' Don't you see it is something which makes

the mother cry ? " and with a boyish, though
delicate, consideration, he turned away.

but Lizzie kept her eyes fixed on her mother,
who presently looked up, smiling through her
tears.

I suppose I may as well tell you children at
once  Aunt Agatha Is going to be married."

'* Going to be married ! " cried Lizzie and
Ralp In chorus, so loud that the other children
left their game and gathered round. '* Aunt
Aggie going to be married ! " was then repeated
in varying tones, but with an unanimous groan
of disapproval.

Who Is going to marry her ? " asked Ruth,
the younger girl.

*' Mr. Leslie, a clergyman ; none of you have
ever seen him."

'' Shall we have to call him uncle ? " inquired
little Cyril, with a solemn face.

Yes, of course," answered his mother,
smiling.

'' I don't care, I never shall ! " cried Ruth,
vehemently; '' I know that I shall always hate
im.

*' You silly girl, much he'll care ! " said Ralp,
scornfully. '' But upon my word it Is a shame.

I never thought Aunt Agatha would want to
get married, and leave us all. I thought she
had grown too old for that sort of thing."

I am afraid you are all very selfish children,"
said Mrs. Maxwell, reprovingly. "You seem
to think that Aunt Agatha was only made to
be a slave to all of you. Ah ! she has learnt
here to be so unselfish, that she always thinks
of other people's wants and little of her own.
No wonder some one has found this out. Dear
Agatha ! how I shall miss her ! But no one
better deserves a happy home."

And thus was the news of Agatha's betrothal
received in the house where she had so long
lived.

But to return to Belton.

Leslie found no opportunity to tell Roger of
what had passed between himself and Agatha
until the next day. Other visitors were staying
at the Hall ; and Roger, singularly grave
and preoccupied, failed to see that his friend
had something of importance to communicate.
Leslie was obliged to leave directly after breakfast,
but he eagerly accepted Roger's offer to
drive him to the station. There was no groom
in the back seat of the dog-cart, so they could

talk unrestrainedly ; and Leslie only waited
until the lodge gates were left behind.

'' North, old fellow, I want your congratulations
 I am engaged to be married."

Roger turned, and looked him in the face,
almost unbounded with astonishment.

'* Married, Leslie ? you ! "

'eyes, why not?" said Leslie, colouring and
laughing.

Well, you do astonish me. But to whom ?
do I know the lady ? "

Of course ; who should it be but your
cousin Agatha ? "

' Agatha ! How thick-headed I am ! Why,
Mrs. Stephens said as much only yesterday,
and I would not believe her. But since it is
true, I can only say that I am heartily glad,"
and Roger gave his friend a cordial hand-grasp.
'' Well, no two people could be
better suited. It is the best news I have
heard for a long time. But you have taken
me completely by surprise. When did you
settle matters ? "

*' You gave the desired opportunity," said
Leslie, with a quiet smile, '' by leaving us
yesterday in that unceremonious manner. I

won't find fault, because I was extremely
grateful for the chance ; but what made you
run off in such a hurry ? "

'' I  oh ! I heard some sad news about a
friend," answered Roger, with an effort, "and
it drove everything else out of my head." He
paused a moment, and then continued, '' I
apologized to Agatha last evening, but never
guessed that my apology was so little needed.
In fact, now I think of it, she was so confused
and incoherent that I wonder I did not suspect
something. But tell me, have you been thinking
of this long ? "

'eyes and no," said Leslie, growing serious.
'' I began life rather resolved never to marry.
I thought marriage might interfere with my
work, and the resolution cost nothing, for I had
no desire to break it, never, in fact, until I met
your cousin, now some years ago. Then my
resolution was put to the test, and I found
myself beginning to think of her as I had
thought of no other woman. We met several
times, and the feeling deepened, but I believed
it was only on my side. I thrust it from me,
and was glad we were not thrown too constantly
in each other's society, for I was foolish

and blind enough to think that I could order
my life for usefulness better than it was being
ordered for me. But when we met here last
winter, by no seeking of my own, I began to
think differently. Gradually it came home that
I had no right to refuse the greatest earthly
blessing that man can have. We cannot look
into the future, we cannot tell what lies before
us, and foresee as little whence our helps as our
hindrances are to come. So," concluded Leslie,
with a smile, '* I gave up trying to be overwise,
and am likely, in consequence, to meet
with a reward richer than I deserve."

*' Indeed, it is a step that you will never
regret. Agatha is one of those women who
will always be a help rather than a hindrance
to her husband. Why, Leslie, just think what
she will be in your present parish ! "

Yes ; my asking her at all looks like an
arrant piece of selfishness."

'' You will be made to think so, I can tell
you, when you face the Maxwell."

Then Roger half pulled up his horse.

'' But why are you going away in such a
hurry ? Had you not better return with me
now ?"

"Oh no, I can't; but may I come on Monday
night ? "

Of course ; you are always welcome."

Roger had a solitary drive home. And on
reaching the grounds he turned straight into
the stable-yard. He gave the horse into the
charge of a groom, and was walking towards
the house, when he heard a boy's voice raised
in loud and angry tones.

Bring the pony out at once, you mean
hound ! I zvill have him out, I tell you."

Roger turned into the stable whence the
voice proceeded.

With his back towards the open door was
Charlie North. He had evidently just unloosed
a pony from its stall, and had been
stopped by a stable-boy some years older and
bigger than himself. The latter had gained
the pony's head, and was keeping Charlie off.
The pony, with head back and snorting nostrils,
was startled by the scuffle. The stableboy
caught sight of Roger, and tried to silence
Charlie by a significant gesture. But Charlie
was in a passion, and heeded not.

'' I tell you I will have him out ! I shall
be master here some day. I wish I were your

master now, and then see if you wouldn't obey
me a little quicker !"

Roger stepped forward, and laid a hand
upon the boy's shoulder.

"What is the matter, Charlie? What is all
this about ? "

Charlie started, turned crimson, and hung
his head in silence. The groom answered
more readily, 

'' Please, sir, Mr. Miller said as Bobby
weren't to go out again till he were shod,
and Master Charlie there wouldn't take no
heed to my telling him, and wanted to have
him out."

"All right, Jim; fasten the pony up," said
his master, quietly. Then he led his cousin
away. When they were out of hearing, he
said, gravely, 

I am sorry to hear you speak so rudely
to a servant who was only doing his duty.
If I am not here, you must attend to what
Miller says about anything in the stables."

"Very well, I will"

Then the boy looked up half shyly at
Roger's grave face, grew red again, and asked
quickly, 

Are you angry with me for what I was
saying when you came in ? "

** No," said Roger, kindly, " not angry, only
sorry that any foolish people should have put
such ideas into your head. Of course were
I to die childless this property would become
yours ; but nothing can be worse for you than
to grow up with expectations which may never
be fulfilled. I may marry, and have sons of
my own. But in any case, Charlie, I wish you
always to look upon me as an elder brother.
Only, I would have you remember that you
have your way to make in life. The future
depends upon your own exertions."

'' I know," said Charlie, hanging his head.
*' I would never have said that, only I was in a
passion. And," he added, with a burst of
boyish affection, '' I don't wish such a thing in
reality, for it could not be until  until you were
dead. You are so kind to me, of course I don't
wish that."

''No, I never dreamt that you did, Charlie."

They walked on in silence for a minute,
and then the boy began again with some
vehemence, 

'when I get into a passion I am always

saying things that I don't really mean ; and I
can't bear that you should think me such an
ungrateful fellow. Since I was here last Christmas,
and you talked to me, I have tried to work
harder at school, and I will when I go back, if it
is only to show that I intend to get on by myself."

'' Quite right, my boy," said Roger, with
approbation; 'there is no way by which you
can please me better. I want to see you do
well, Charlie, and have reason to be proud of
you. Have you thought seriously yet of what
we talked about last Christmas ? Are you sure
that you prefer the army to any other profession
? If you do, it may make a difference in
your course of education."

I have quite made up my mind. I shall
never change," answered the boy, decidedly.

And they reached the house.

Mrs. North had learned from Agatha what
Roger had heard from Leslie, but she had been
far from receiving the news with the same
cordial approval. One of the causes of her
attachment to Agatha lay in the fact that in
years gone by Agatha, then a mere child, had
been the special pet and plaything of her two
soldier sons. When the death of first one and

then the other had nigh broken the mother's
heart, Agatha's deep, though childish, grief had
created a powerful link of sympathy between
them. On rare occasions she spoke of these
two sons to Agatha, and it was to her alone
that she ever did so. Hence it pleased Mrs.
North that Agatha did not marry, and she
looked upon her as almost consecrated to their
memory. This was one of the deeply-rooted
feelings in Mrs. North's reserved nature which
she revealed to none. Agatha was perfectly
unconscious of its existence. To her it only
appeared natural that the mother should speak
at times of her dead to one who remembered
and had loved them. Therefore she was perplexed
and grieved at the cold reception her
news received. Her affectionate nature was
pained, and the first few days of her new-found
happiness were not without alloy.

But when the following Monday brought
Leslie, all this was changed. His happiness
was so radiant, he was so obstinately blind to
any coldness on Mrs. North's part, that the
latter became ashamed of her former feeling,
and brought herself to look upon Agatha s
marriage with some approach to cordiality.

From the members of Leslie's family Agatha
met with a warm reception. One and all rejoiced
that their brother had found a wife in
every way suited to share his life. They cared
not that she brought no dowry. Leslie's means
were ample, though but a small portion was
spent upon himself. 

And so it came to pass during the autumn
that Roger North and his mother were present
at two marriages.

The first was celebrated with much splendour.
For the wealthy baronet's only daughter was
not allowed to wed with the equally wealthy
Viscount Lorraine without all suitable dcldt.
The beauty of Constance Erskine was rendered
yet more dazzling by the magnificence of her
bridal satin, and lace, and diamonds. Some
who were present regarded Roger with no
small measure of commiseration. There were
still whispers atioat that he had been a rejected
aspirant to his cousin's hand. Little did they
guess that the marriage gave him unmixed
satisfaction. He was sincerely attached to his
uncle and aunt, and now he was at liberty to
renew his intercourse with them on the old
pleasant terms.

The second marriage was that of Lesse and
Agatha, and took place from the Maxwell'
house. Though very simple, this was the one
with which Roger felt far more in harmony.
Who could look on the earnest faces of that
bride and bridegroom, as they knelt before the
altar, and doubt that, come weal, come woe,
they would ever be each to the other a solace
and support ? Agatha Leslie left the house
where she had been the self-forgetful sharer of
the joys and sorrows of others to become, in
the home of her husband, a centre of sunshine,
cheering and warming all who came within her
gentle influence. No bride could go forth to
the fairest of earthly homes with a gladder,
happier heart than she carried with her to that
smoke-begrimed parsonage. What mattered it
that the atmosphere without was murky and
black, when all was so bright within ? And the
happiness of Leslie and Agatha but made them
tenderer to the blemished lives of those among
whom they laboured.

Roger still continued to give his help in the
night-schools, and to him there were no pleasant
hours in the week than those which
found him under the Lesliess' roof His was a

nature which experienced the keenest pleasure
in contemplating the happiness of those it loved.
No self-pitying comparisons rendered the sight
of his friend's wedded joy a source of pain. If
the unselfish have a double portion of sorrow to
bear in sharing that of others, so, too, they find
an equal compensation in the joy of those
around them.

The autumn and winter months had passed.
Spring came with its new life and promise of
fertility, and still there was no intimation of
Kate's return.

All these months none knew how Roger
yearned to see her face, to hear her voice once
more. When he had resigned himself to the
thought of a lonely life  lonely in the sense that
it would never know the sweetest of domestic
ties  he had quelled all such longings. But
with the knowledge that he might cherish hope,
these longings came upon him with redoubled
force. At times he could hardly subdue the
impulse which urged him to go and seek Kate
in her sister's distant home, pour out the story
of his love, and implore her to let it bring what
comfort and brightness it might to her saddened
life. Then came reflection ; and he knew how

VOL. III. 2

mad such a course would be, and how Hkely to
frustrate the very end that he most desired.

No ! he must wait  wait patiently until time
had laid a healing hand upon wounds which as
yet bled too freshly to be stayed by another
tale of love. Wait, until some time in the
distant future ; when, maybe, she would listen
to the wish that her father had once breathed ;
and the voice of the beloved dead would return
to lend to him its powerful aid.

For the first time he dwelt upon the fact that
Kate had believed him to be engaged to his
cousin. Deeply he mused over the significance
of that belief. Was it possible that she might
have loved him until she believed his troth
plighted to another ? The thought gave birth
to a great joy.

No one year of Roger's life had ever seemed
so long  until late summer came, and once more
the harvest had ripened in the field. Then at
last he heard news which made his heart beat
quicker and his pulses throb.

Kate was coming home !

Until this date Mr. Beaumont had written
repeatedly, but in vain, to urge her return. At
last, the Ramsayss had joined their influence to

his. Mary, though loth to part with her sister,
had become uneasy about her health. Sorrow
had left upon Kate an apathy and unwillingness
for exertion, and Mary hoped that were she
removed from the scenes which had such sad
associations the elasticity of youth would reassert
itself. It happened that the Ramsayss
were anxious to send their two eldest boys to
a school in England. Mary persuaded Kate
that she would never be easy were they to
make the long voyage all alone, and begged
her to accompany them. To this plan Kate
had at length consented. The sisters looked
forward to no long separation ; for George
Ramsay intended to return home so soon as he
could put things in train, and leave a capable
manager to take his place on the estaiigia.

And so, while the leaves in their autumnal
glory still hung upon the trees, Kate was on
her way to England.

TAKEN BY SURPRISE.

One November afternoon, Mrs. Vale was very-busy
about the house in Portland Place. Asa
matter of fact, she had not much to do, as
everything was in the most perfect order ; but she
found it an impossibility to sit still. Each room
was visited again and again. Not a single
detail escaped her critical eye. Yet on retiring
to her parlour and sitting down, as she thought
to rest, some doubt would arise whether all was
just as she wished it to be ; and her tour of
inspection was recommenced.

Of all rooms in the house none appeared to
give her more thought than one of the principal
bedrooms. Nothing could be fresher and
brighter than its aspect. The chintz hangings
were new and tasteful ; choice flowers were
arranged upon the toilet table ; a fire burned

cheerfully In the grate  the room bore every
sign of preparation for some loved and honoured
occupant.

It was the hour of four when Mrs. Vale stood
looking round with eyes that saw none too
clearly. The good woman had aged since the
days when she was the rector's able helper at
Belton. Attacks of rheumatism during the
past two winters had caused her movements
to be more stiff and angular than ever. Her
face was thinner, sharper, redder. '' Oh," she
would often say, shaking her head, " I'm getting
old, I shall only be fit to lie on the shelf, soon.
The old woman won't be of use much looser."
More than once she had spoken to Mr.
Beaumont of a desire to leave his service, and
make her home with a widowed sister ; but he
would not listen to such a proposal.

I'm no manner of use to you now, sir,'
she said.

Yes, you are, Mrs. Vale. As long as you
can keep the books and go round the house
to overlook the other servants you are of the
greatest use. You must stay where you are
unless you want to quarrel with me."

And so she stayed on ; and to-day found her

Still there, with a heart divided between joy and
sorrow : joy at the thought that the child who
had made the sunshine of her later years would
that night sleep once more under the same
roof ; sorrow because she was returning a
young and childless widow.

*'Ah! " mused the old nurse, gazing round,
*rit is just three years since I was preparing
the first time for my poor darling in this house.
It wasn't all sunshine for her then, with her
dear father lately dead, and she leaving the
old home. But those things must be, and I
hoped that a happy life lay before her. To
be sure, I hoped and prayed for that still when
she went from here a bride. Such a handsome,
fine young gentleman as Mr. Ferrars was, and
so nice spoken ! Who would have thought
that he would turn out so ill ? Ah ! it must
nigh have broken her tender heart ; and losing
the precious baby too. If we could only have
had the little lamb here it would be different.
Ah, well ! 'tis the Lord's will, and we must not
murmur. Dear child ! I wonder if she'll think
as much of her old Mamsie now as she used todo.
But I'm a foolish, jealous old woman, or
I shouldn't doubt it, when I have all the dear

letters, which she has never forgotten to write
to her old nurse."

Then Mrs. Vale gave the fire one last stir,
and went downstairs. She took up some mending
which lay on the table, but her fingers so
trembled that the needle would not move as
she desired ; and, laying the work aside, she
sat still with hands folded on her lap. Now
and then her lips moved, and the indistinct
words which fell from them sounded not unlike
a prayer.

A loud ring of the bell, followed by a hurried
movement in the house, told that the travellers
had arrived. She rose and went upstairs as
quickly as her shaking limbs permitted. The
hall door was already open. But suddenly she
felt cold and faint. She could advance no
farther, and hid herself behind a sheltering
door.

Mr. Beaumont had been to Southampton to
meet his niece ; and now, when she alighted
from the carriage, he drew her arm within his
own and pressed it kindly as they entered the
house together.

Welcome home, dear child ! " he said, in a
low tone, as they crossed the threshold.

Mrs. Vale came forward, and dimly saw
advancing the black figure. She steadied herself
to curtsey low, but in a second two arms
were round her neck, and the sweet voice that
she loved so well was whispering in her ears, 

" Dear, dear Mamsie ! how glad I am to see
you ! "

No ! her child was not changed in anything
that made her dear to the old nurse's heart.

One morning, a few days later, Kate sat alone
in the drawing-room, her work and book untouched
upon the table. She was dreaming 
dreaming of the past, the present, and the
future.

In these early days of return to her uncle's
house there was much to make her think, much
to give rise to a comparison between what was
and what might have been. Such thoughts
must ever be begotten by the sight of a familiar
place, unchanged itself, while the change in
heart and life of the beholder is greater than
that upon the shifting sandy shore after ocean's
tide has come and gone. Morbidness formed
no part of Kate's nature. She did not intend
to pass her life in mourning over vanished
hopes ; and even now she was trying to see

all that was bright and happy in the life before
her. One cause for true happiness had already
cheered her, and that was the altered relations
between her uncle and herself. The cordiality
with which he welcomed her return was genuine;
the regret which the circumstances following
her marriage had occasioned him was of
no evanescent character. He could not do
enough to show his affection and solicitude,
and was surprised to find what pleasure this
new interest added to his life. He had been
much concerned by her delicate appearance,
and to see how thin her cheeks and how
slender her hands had grown. Already he
had taken her for advice to an eminent physician,
and this morning had gone to consult
with him again.

There was no doubt she did look sadly
delicate. She wore no widow's weeds, but
the heavy folds of her black dress, with no
ornament to relieve Its severe simplicity, made
her appear taller and slighter, and rendered her
fair hair and white skin still more pale and
colourless. But what her face had lost in
bright, youthful contour It had gained in depth
and earnestness. With all Its sweetness there

was a womanly power resting on brow and
lip  the power " to suffer and be strong."

Yet how young she looked ! She was buta
widowed girl ! Surely possibilities remained
for her in the future which would restore the
glad light to her eyes, and the flush of joy and
health to her cheek. Not that she thought
thus. She was prepared to tread contentedly
the path which lay before her. It seemed
likely to lead through quiet, shady places, un-chequered
by deep gloom or brilliant sunshine.
The crisis in her life's drama had been early
reached ; woman's strongest emotions were
already of the past.

Kate was too pre-occupied to notice a ring
at the door-bell. Nor did she hear a footfall
on the staircase. Even the opening door failed
to rouse. But she turned and started to her
feet with a quick flush of surprise as a servant
announced 

Mr. North."

She moved half across the room holding out
her hands eagerly. Then, as Roger advanced,
and took them within his own, her lips
quivered, and she could not speak.

Roger held her hands tightly for a moment,

then let them drop, and, breathing a quick sigh,
passed his own through his short curly hair
with a gesture that was an old trick of his, and
to Kate looked strangely familiar.

Still she was the first to speak.

Oh, Roger ! how good of you to come and
see me so soon ! "

*' How could I help coming, Kate ? "

His voice was quiet, but to himself there
seemed a hidden depth in the simple words.

Not appearing to notice it, she sat down, and
looked at him with her soft eyes.

'* How pleasant it is to see you again ! It is
like a bit of the clear old home."

The first bright flush had faded from her
face, and Roger could see how pale and delicate
she looked.

'' Kate ! " he exclaimed, as if he could not
keep back the words, "how you must have
suffered ! Forgive me," he added, seeing her
pained look, " but I  I feel so much on seeing
you again like this."

*' Don't talk of me now," said Kate, looking
away, and the tears rising to her eyes. '* Tell
me of yourself, and all about dear Belton.
Have you just come from home ? "

Yes  no," answered Roger, struggling hard
to maintain composure ; '' I mean it is ten days
since I left home. I have been staying in Kent
with the Moraines."

** The Moraines ? " said Kate, interrogatively.

Yes ; did you not know ? My cousin
Constance was married to Lord Lorraine a year
ago. I have been there for the christening of
their son and heir."

'' I did hear, but I had forgotten the name
for the moment," she answered, looking at
Roger somewhat intently.

Roger saw the look ; the association of ideas
gave the rein to words which trembled on his
lips. They burst forth almost indignantly,
s *' Kate ! what made you believe that I was
engaged to her ? "

Kate coloured slightly, and turned away her
face.

"So many people told me, of course I believed
it. But what do you mean ? Was it
not true ? "

"True!" exclaimed Roger. 'T never dreamed
of such a thing ! "

Not true?" said Kate, in unfeigned surprise.
Then one of her quaint playful smiles parted

her lips. *' Well, I have been wasting my
sympathies. You don't know how sorry I felt
for you on hearing she was going to marry
some one else. I could not understand it at all.
I knew you would never change your mind,
and I could not comprehend her doing so, if
she ever cared for you."

Roger rose from his chair, and stood close by
Kate, resting his hand on the table. His voice
was low and constrained.

'' How came you to believe a report which
was merely the idlest gossip ? "

I did not know it was gossip. Why, your
mother said as much ! "

My mother ? Kate, what do you mean ? "
and Roger's voice sounded hoarse and
pained.

Kate trembled, and felt strangely disturbed.

*' Lady Avery told me she had heard of it
from Mrs. North, and then Mrs. North herself
wrote to me from Cannes, and said something
about your marriage."

'' Good heaven ! can this be true ? How
could she ? " exclaimed Roger, now painfully
agitated. 'can you recollect exactly what she
saide"

'' I think I can. She did not mention Miss
Erskine's name, but she said she would be glad
when you were married, so that she might be
relieved of some of her duties at Belton. That
was all; don't be vexed, Roger;" and Kate
laid her hand pleadingly upon his arm.

Roger made a strong effort to keep back
feelings that were rapidly gaining the mastery.
Gently, but firmly, he put her hand aside, and
walked a few paces away. He turned his head,
so that Kate could not see how his features
worked.

I am so sorry that you are vexed," she said,
gently. " I daresay your mother did not mean
that ; It was only my stupidity in jumping to
conclusions. Why should you mind so much ?
Surely it does not matter what I thought about
It."

'' Not matter what you thought ! " said Roger,
turning round. " The whole world might have
thought what they pleased if you had not
believed it ! "

His look and tone sent the blood rushing to
Kate's brow. Then she turned deadly pale.
He came close to her ; he could not stop himself,
the pent-up feelings of years would have

their way, his words came fast and almost
incoherently.

'' Kate ! how could you think that I ever
cared for any one but you ? And yet, innocent
child that you were, how could you know ? I
never told you. But the last time I was alone
with you, in this very room, I had come to tell
you  to ask if you could return my love, if it
were only a little, and then  good heavens ! I
found I was too late."

'' Oh, Roger ! what are you saying ? Don't,
don't ! " cried Kate, almost wildly, and covering
her face with her hands.

He checked himself by a powerful effort ; he
drove back the words of love which were rising
to his lips ; he looked down upon the slender
form trembling with emotion. Then he laid
his hand tenderly upon her head, as he might
have done when she was still a child, and he
already a grown man.

Forgive me," he said, almost quietly, '' I
distress you. I did not mean to speak like this.
It was the last thing I meant to do. It is
selfish and unfeeling when you have had sorrow
enough to bear. But oh, Kate! can you give
me some gleam of hope that the time may

come when it will not pain you to listen to
my love ? "

He withdrew his hand, and stood regarding
her with a look that belied the quietness of his
tone.

She did not answer for a minute. Then she
removed her hands from her face, and clasped
them tightly together. She did not look up,
and spoke with great agitation.

I never thought of such a thing  I never
knew you cared for me ; but now, oh ! please
do not think of it any longer. Find some one
else to love, whose heart is young and fresh 
mine feels dead and cold. I can never care for
any one like that. I  I should not dare to
marry without real, true love."

Then, with a pained look, she sprang up
suddenly, and stretched out her hands imploringly.


"Oh, please, please, Roger! let us still befriends
 let us still be brother and sister as we
used to be ! "

He took both her hands in his. He reproached
himself for causing her distress, and
only thought how best to soothe.

My poor Kate ! I have troubled you when

Heaven knows I would give my life to comfort
yours, and bring back the old bright look to
that dear face. Forget what I have said  only
remember that I love you dearly, and shall love
you always."

Then, without a word of warning, Kate
turned deadly white ; she sank down in the
chair, and her eyes were closed. She had
fainted.

Roger, in alarm, looked round for water.
A flower vase was close at hand. He threw
the flowers on the table, and dashed the water
in her face. It seemed to him an age before
she gave a little gasping sigh, and half opened
her eyes. In another moment he would have
rung the bell for assistance, but when he saw
that she was recovering consciousness he could
not do so ; such moments were too precious
to be broken in upon by the presence of
another.

She gave a second sigh, and then murmured, 

'' Where am I ? What is it ? "

"You fainted, darling," said Roger, tenderly;
do not speak, lie still."

He knelt down, and taking her hands, gently
chafed them between his own.

VOL. III. 3

After a while she sat up, and passed her hand
across her forehead. Then he rose.
'' Let me ring for a glass of wine."
'' Oh no, I am all right now. How silly of
me to faint ! " and she gave a little nervous
laugh.

'' You are not strong  I should have remembered,"
said Roger, in a tone of the deepest
self-reproach. *' It was all my fault. Don't try
to speak to me  lie still a moment yet."

He moved to the window, his brain in a
whirl with the scene that had just passed.
What folly had he committed ? What else
could he expect from this ill-timed betrayal of
his feelings ? Whither had fled the resolutions
with which he had armed himself so carefully
before venturing to her presence ? They had
been swept away as light clouds before a gale.
Now he must bear the consequences. Maybe
he had destroyed every chance of the fulfilment
of his hopes, and he must never speak of love
to her again, unless very sure of what would bethe
answer.

He had looked forward to this meeting with
such eager longing these many months, and
now he had spoiled all by his own folly.

Voices sounded on the staircase. Roger
turned round. Kate looked pale yet, but
almost herself.

She heard the voices too, and with a womanly
instinct smoothed her ruffled tresses; and
gathering up the flowers, replaced them in
the vase.

They will wonder what I have been doing.
Do not say that I fainted ; uncle makes too
much fuss over me already."

In another moment the door opened, and
Mr. Beaumont and Lord Evered entered.
Kate had seen her old friend once before
since her return. None had welcomed her
with greater warmth. But this was their
first meeting to-day and he advanced to
shake hands while Mr. Beaumont greeted
Roger.

Ah ! North  delighted to see you. I told
Kate only this morning that I knew you
would lose no time in coming. How do
you think her looking ? " he added, in a lower
tone.

" Very delicate."

'' Yes, I fear it is so. I have been talking to
Sir Francis Hooper about her this morning.

He won't allow that there is anything really
amiss. When I told him something of her
history, he said that the strain her constitution
had evidently undergone quite accounted for the
symptoms. He recommends me to take her to
the south of France for the winter."

Indeed! and shall you follow the advice?"

Certainly, if she is willing. You know
Eve red, do you not ?

Lord Evered, hearing his name, advanced
and shook hands cordially with Roger.

I have had the pleasure of meeting Mr.
North before."

You will remain for luncheon, North ? "
said Mr. Beaumont.

Roger hesitated, and looked towards Kate.

Oh, yes ; I hope you will stay," she said,
hastily.

'every well, with pleasure."

Then the three men fell into conversation,
while Kate left the room and gained her own
apartment. She bathed her face with cold
water and sat down, feeling that to be alone
and to think quietly would be a great relief.
But in a few minutes the gong sounded for
luncheon, and she went downstairs.

When seated at table, Mr. Beaumont said,
cheerfully, 

** You have not yet heard your physician's
verdict, Kate."

'* No ; what Is it ? "

'' A winter on the Continent. I have been
trying already to persuade Evered to accompany
us."

'' The Continent Is a large territory," remarked
Lord Evered. '' Tell me the whereabouts,
and I may yield to temptation."

'what do you think of Pau ? "

Very delightful and very lovely ; but if
you are not a social butterfly, and happen to
be so constituted as to require something
beyond pleasure parties and scenery, it might
pall."

'* True," said Mr. Beaumont. '' Have you
any predilection, Kate ? "

'* All places are equally new to me, uncle ;
I must leave you to make a choice. But I
don't like the Idea of taking you away from
home all winter on my account."

'' Do not think of that," said Lord Evered ;
** he Is only too pleased to have the excuse.
His chagrin would have been excessive had

London been pronounced the best place for
you."

'* What do you say to Sorrento ? " suggested
Mr. Beaumont, after a moment's reflection.

'* Sorrento ? Ah, there you do offer a real
temptation," said Lord Evered ; '' I have long
had a wish to investigate thoroughly the
antiquities of Pompeii. The neighbourhood
of Sorrento and Naples possesses attractions
of the highest order  able not only to satisfy
the mind, but captivate the senses. Throw In
your vote for Sorrento, Mrs. Ferrars, and then
It will go hardly with me If I remain behind."

Roger turned to Kate.

** Surely Sorrento will tempt you also. Do
you not remember your many plans for a tour
in Italy ?"

Yes, did she not ? And a sharp pang of
heartache came with the picture they recalled
a picture of which the old rectory, her father,
and Roger himself formed a part.

' Sorrento and Naples let it be," said Mr.
Beaumont. '' North, don't you be left out in
the cold. Why should you not join us as well ?
Use you Influence, Kate, and make him come.
He has far too many insular prejudices.'

The colour came rushing Into Kate's cheeks.
Why could she not turn and ask him in the old
sisterly way? Had the incident of the morning
for ever ended the pleasant, easy intercourse
between them ? At that moment it seemed so
to her.

Roger answered, quickly, 

*' The plan sounds tempting, Mr. Beaumont,
but I have had my holiday this year, and I ama
busy man at home."

Ah ! you think the county business cannot
get on without you. You country squires
have no equals for self-importance. Doubtless
there are more to do the work than work to do.
Don't flatter yourself that you would be missed ! "

'' I don't know that, Mr. Beaumont. In our
county, at least, there never seem to be too
many to do the real work ; and I believe I take
my share."

At this moment a servant handed a letter to
Kate.

The messenger Is waiting for an answer,
ma'am."

With a word of apology to the rest, Kate
tore open the envelope and glanced over the
few lines it contained.

*' My letter requires an immediate answer,"
she said. ''If you will excuse me, I will write
it at once."

The meal was ended, and all rose from the
table. Roger opened the door for Kate to
pass through.

I may not see you again," he said ; " I will
say good-bye."

But I shall see you soon ? "

I hardly know  I return home this afternoon.
If you leave for the Continent shortly,
as I suppose you will, I may not be in town
before you go. Can I take any message for
you to Belton ? "

No, I think not, thank you. Mrs. Stephens
is coming to stay here next Monday."

Take care of yourself, and come home
stronger and better. Good-bye."

He held her hand in his for a moment. His
words and manner were kind and brotherly,
but

Good-bye," she murmured, and again the
flush mounted to her cheek.

LADY Isaac's story.

Kate went upstairs somewhat wearily. On
reaching her writing table she looked at the
letter, and read it again. It contained but a
few lines 

spark Lane.
Dear Kate,

I am in town for one day only. I have heard of your
arrival in Portland Place, and if you can see me alone this
afternoon, I much desire to come.

'' Yours, Julia."

Kate sighed. It was impossible to refuse an
interview thus sought by her dead husband's
sister. She must say 'come," and yet she felt
a strange shrinking. Why should it be on this
of all days ? Already her nerves were unstrung,
and the meeting with Julia would inevitably
prove a trying one.

But there was no alternative. She took up

her pen, and quickly wrote an answer. Then
she rang the bell.

'' Here is the letter for Lady Isaac's messenger,"
she said, to the servant who answered the
summons. '' Lady Isaac will be coming to seeme
this afternoon, and remember I am at home
to no one else."

Then Kate tried to dismiss from her mind
the events of the morning, and brace herself
for the impending interview. Neither the
one task nor the other proved easy.

Julia was Julia Ferrars no longer. She
married within six months of the day on which
Kate had left England. During the period of
Kate's intimacy with the Ferrars she had
occasionally met Sir Leopold Isaac. He was
a person of some importance  one of the chief
partners in a large banking house, and a man
of great wealth. But while by no means neglecting
business, personal taste and an ambitious
nature led him to devote time, money, and
talents to other objects. For many years he
had sat in Parliament as representative for a
county constituency, and had distinguished
himself as an able supporter of the Liberal
party. In recognition of his valuable services,

and possibly of his wealth, he had been created
a baronet.

At fifty he became a childless widower. His
wife had long been an invalid, and both ill-health
and natural disposition unsuited her to
take the place in society that her husband
desired. He waited for a decent term of
mourning to elapse, and then looked around fora
wife who would be an able and congenial
helpmate. Once he had visions of a wife of
rank, but then he met Julia Ferrars, and he
believed her to be endowed with all the qualities
he sought. She was young, handsome, and
gifted with talents which would enable her to
shine as the mistress of his house, and attract
to her circle, not only the gay butterflies of
fashion, but men and women distinguished by
their intellect.

Sir Leopold was a man of considerable culture.
He expended his wealth in no mere
ostentatious display. His houses, both in town
and country, were full of art treasures that
would not have disgraced the noblest of collections.
His name was known in the artistic
world as a liberal patron of genius. As a
musical critic his opinion was courted.

In person he was fine-looking  tall, with Iron-grey
hair, and a manner at once self-possessed
and dignified. In spite of a disparity of years,
there was nothing to preclude him from inspiring
affection in a girl of Julia's somewhat grave
disposition ; and during his short term of widowhood
he found many as young and as handsome
who would not have turned a deaf ear to his
advances.

Such was the man to whom Julia had been
wedded for nearly two years ; and it appeared
to the world as if she could not possess an
ungratified wish.

Yet when the moment came that Julia and
Kate were once more face to face, the latter
felt instinctively that Julia was not happy. She
was richly dressed, she appeared handsomer
than in the days of girlhood ; the very dignity
of mien that marked her entrance revealed that
she was a woman accustomed to be courted by
those amongst whom she moved. But beneath
any natural feeling on meeting once more the
widow of her favourite brother, she wore an
indescribable look which spoke of a deeply
hidden pain.

Kate had been very fond of Julia in the

days before her marriage. Perhaps no part of
Sydney's last letter had hurt her more deeply
than the words that told how Julia had known
and abetted the concealment of Sydney's real
circumstances. She had tried to put the remembrance
away ; tried to look upon the act as a
natural and venial outcome of sisterly affection ;
yet in spite of every effort she could not bring
herself to meet Julia with the spontaneous
cordiality of old times. But the first sight of
her face dispelled any feelings save those of
love and pity, and she returned her embrace
with warmth  warmth such as she had previously
despaired of feeling.

Julia quickly controlled the deep emotion
which had shown itself for a moment. Still,
her very manner proved that her self-control
came from mere force of habit. She bent
forward and kissed Kate a second time ; and
while yet holding her hands, was the first to
speak.

It is very good of you to see me like this."

"Oh no, Julia," answered Kate, now the
most agitated of the two; "how could I refuse
to see any of you, whenever you wished ' "

Soil could not  others might. But how

changed you are, poor child ! how delicate you
look ! Have you been ill ? "

''No, I don't think so; but uncle and the
doctors make a fuss over me, and say I must
go abroad for the winter."

Julia seated herself on the sofa, and with
gentle authority made Kate sit down beside
her.

'' I am very glad," she said ; '' it will be the
best thing for you. Are you going at once ? "

I expect so ; but uncle only told me at
luncheon, and as yet I know no particulars.
I am very glad that you have come to-day, or
I might have left England without seeing any
of you."

Ah, yes, it makes a difference now that the
house in Regent's Park is let, and my people
have gone to live at Brighton. Papa is backwards
and forwards as a rule ; but perhaps you
know that he is laid up with an attack of gout,
or no doubt he would have been to see you."

Yes, I had a letter from Barbara, in answer
to one of mine asking her to come here. She
said she could not be spared from home."

True enough. Ah, Kate, you little guess
what your influence did for Barbara. You

would hardly know her. She has changed
from the peevish child to be the comfort of
her parents. They are likely to find their
sickly, despised youngest daughter the one
who will best perform her filial duty ; and they
owe it all to you. Certainly her health is better
now, but nothing is easier than to date the
change from the time when she first knew you."

Kate looked pleased.

"It is nice to hear you say so, Julia ; but
Barbara's character had so much in it that
was good."

"You were the first to make the discovery.
Now that she is appreciated she is quite different.
Papa is proud of her cleverness. I believe that
talking with her and directing her studies are
the great distractions at home which prevent
him from dwelling upon family troubles."

"It is very pleasant to hear that. I am so
glad ! "

Do you know the reason why they moved
to Brighton ? " asked Julia, abruptly.

No, not exactly."

"Well, it was Frederick's marriage that
brought matters to a climax. Poor mamma
has had a growing distaste for London this long

while. First one thing and then another told
upon her health and spirits. We all regarded
Frederick as a model of prudence and discretion,
and that he should throw everything to
the winds for the sake of marrying a third-rate
actress was a terrible shock. Mamma felt it
keenly. I believe there is nothing against the
girl, but of course papa and mamma refused to
receive her. Then mamma became so nervously
frightened of meeting Frederick some day with
his wife, that at last it was agreed to take a
house in Brighton. I do not believe that she
has since been to London more than once or
twice for a day's shopping."

It is very sad," said Kate ; " but would not
Mrs. Ferrars be happier if she were reconciled
to Frederick and his wife '. "

*' My dear child, what are you talking about ?
She is a girl who has danced on the stage 
dressed as a man ! How could any of us
acknowledge her as a sister ? Much as one
must regret the separation from Frederick, such
a thing is impossible."

Kate was silent. Then, anxious to turn to a
pleasant subject, she asked, 

-How is Mabel''

Mabel ! oh, she Ives in the seventh hour
of bliss," said JuHa, with a shade of bitterness
coming over her face. " Happily, Mabel is
easily contented. She has a stolid country
squire for her husband ; except in birth and
wealth he is very little superior to his tenants.
Now she has a son and heir, who will doubtless
grow up to be equally bucolic ; but she thinks
them both perfection. What more would you
have ? She is happy. Let her live in a fool's
paradise if she can. Others who hunger after
higher things are not so easily satisfied."

Julia's tone was bitter. It seemed as if some
personal feeling attached itself to her words,
and Kate looked at her with a wistful, pitying
look, and a heartfelt yearning to minister to
the hidden trouble of whose existence she was
dimly conscious.

Julia's response to the look was startling and
unexpected. Up to this time she had maintained
a complete composure. Suddenly this
composure was swept away before a mastering
torrent of emotion. Her features worked
convulsively. She threw her arms round Kate,
and hid her face upon her shoulder. Her
words came in broken sentences.

VOL. III. 4

ROGER NORTH.

'' I did not come here to speak of the others,
I came to speak of what concerns but you and
me ; I came to ask your forgiveness  can you
ever forgive me ? "

If I have anything to forgive, I do, JuHa,
I do!"

'' Ah ! but you do not know."

Yes, I think I do," said Kate, the words
choking in her throat ; " Sydney told me in
his last letter. He said you knew about 
about the bad state of his affairs."

'* He told you that ! " said Julia, looking up,
"and you receive me like this  then you do
indeed forgive ! "

Yes, yes," said Kate, striving to speak
calmly. " Pray say no more, I am sure that
you only thought of Sydney's good."

Oh yes ! " said Julia, in a tone of deep
remorse, 'there it is, and the very thing I
thought would save him hastened his ruin. If
he had not landed at Buenos Ayres with your
money at command, he might have kept away
from the gaming table. Then when ruin came,
he had you to add a thousandfold to his remorse.
Don't speak about it, Julia," said Kate,
imploringly.

I must  do not try to stop me. I became
very ill when they told me of Sydney's death,
shortly after the birth and death of my child.
You, who have never had to carry a burden of
self-reproach, cannot tell what I suffered then.
I had so much with which to upbraid myself,
and loudest and most powerful of all was the
voice which spoke of my conduct towards you.
You, young, innocent, and confiding, whom I
allowed to marry my brother  knowing him to
be a ruined man, a gambler, intemperate too,
often  when a word from me would have saved
you from the blight which has since fallen on
your life. I vowed then I would implore your
forgiveness if I lived to meet you. Give it tome
 it may be a pledge of other forgiveness
that I need as sorely."

Kate bent towards Julia and gently kissed
her cheek.

'' Believe me, I do forgive you. Forget that
it ever happened."

Julia received the kiss and words of forgiveness
with a humility that almost pained Kate.
Her breast heaved with an emotion that would
not be restrained. She remained silent. Kate
took her hand and pressed it in her own.

'you have had sorrow, too, dear Julia. I
grieved much for you on hearing that your
baby had been taken from you so quickly."

I deserved to lose it. It was a just punishment."


Don't say that, Julia!" said Kate, distressed.
*' Why should you judge yourself so harshly ?
I have suffered the same sorrow ; " and her
eyes were filled with tears.

You ! " said Julia, vehemently, " yes, but
you are different altogether. You don't know
all. I am a wretched woman, and one of
the causes of my wretchedness, my conduct
towards you. You have forgiven me, and
your forgiveness has eased one portion of the
burden I have to bear. The rest is of my own
making ; " and she gave a short, bitter laugh.

Poor Julia ! " said Kate, gently stroking
her hand.

Listen for a few moments," continued Julia,
and judge whether I have cause or not to be
unhappy ; and if the unhappiness is not doubly
and trebly of my own creation." She paused,
exerting a strong effort to control herself, and
then resumed. " There is something in you,
Kate, which impels me to speak ; and makes

me feel that in speaking there will be relief.
Perhaps you never knew that among our many
visitors there was one who had cared for me
from the time when we were boy and girl
together  no matter what his name. He was
schoolfellow of Sydney, and had been called
to the bar. He was talented, but poor ; and
had a hard, uphill struggle for independence.
He loved me, but was too honourable to speak
openly of love. Sometimes I doubt if I possess
a heart, but at least I believe that his influence
was strong enough to prevent me from listening
to any other offer. So things went on for
many years. He came constantly to the house,
and none, save myself, was aware of the real
attraction which brought him there. We had
returned to town for the winter when we
received the news of Sydney's conduct at
Buenos Ay res. My father heard from George
Ramsay an unvarnished account of what had
happened, and in his first anger he showed
the letter to us all. Mamma was terribly
upset  Sydney had always been her favourite
son. That was the beginning of her aversion
to London. At last papa proposed that she
should take Mabel and myself to Paris for the

winter ; and he would come over constantly
for a few days when he could. We went, and
mamma tried to shake off trouble in a whirl of
gaiety. We had a good many friends in Paris,
and one of the first we met was my present
husband. He was warmly welcomed by
mamma, and became one of our party. He
was with us morning, noon, and night ; and
after the first I could not mistake his intentions.
Just then my heart was very sore ; if ever I
loved any one, I had loved Sydney, and the
destruction of all my hopes regarding him was
very bitter. Like mamma, I was inclined to
turn from trouble and seek relief in gaiety.
Sir Leopold had everything to offer  wealth,
intellectual tastes, and a position in the sort of
society for which I most cared. Daily I was
bending my mind to accept, were he to ask me
to become his wife, when a letter came in a
handwriting that I knew. It was brought tome
when I was alone in the salon so I could
read it without delay. It was from him of
whom I have told you. A piece of good
fortune had come to him at last, and he offered
me a warm, true heart. Just then Sir Leopold
Isaac was announced. My thoughts must

have been wandering ; for suddenly  I hardly
remember how  I awoke to the consciousness
that he was asking me to be his wife. I had
thrust the letter Into the bosom of my dress ;
and there It lay whilst I was listening to the
calm and courtly words of Sir Leopold, who
placed at my feet that which I prized so dearly.
At first I pleaded for delay ; but he grew
eloquent, and pressed for an Immediate answer.
I gave It ; and when mamma returned she
found us together, and he claimed me as his
affianced wife. When I was again alone, my
first act was to tear the letter from my breast."

Oh ! Julia, and how did you answer It ? "
exclaimed Kate.

I answered It that very night. I told him
I was engaged to Sir Leopold Isaac. I wished
him success In his career, and a good wife
who could appreciate and help him. We soon
returned to London, and were married In
December ; and until the following autumn I
tried to feel satisfied and happy. Then my
child was born, and for the first time since
my marriage I felt a thrill of pure unselfish
love. But such love was not for me. Tne
fiat had gone forth  the child could not live

beyond a few days or weeks at most. He
was a beautiful infant : at first, to all outward
seeming, perfectly formed and healthy, but day
by day he wasted, and his moans of pain seared
my heart as with a red-hot iron. He lived
three weeks; and even I, at last, was thankful
when all was over. Then truly my punishment
began. I yearned for sympathy and  love.
I knew that my husband felt the poor child's
death ; but he mourned the loss of an heir to
his wealth and title, while I grieved for the
loss of my first-born. I could not turn to him
for sympathy. I was but the woman whom
he had chosen to be the mistress of his house
and the mother of his children. He had given
me all, and more than all, he promised ; but
love and sympathy were impossible between
us."

'' Julia, do not talk like that ; surely your
husband loves you ! "

'' No, child, no. Political distinction, a foremost
place in intellectual society  these he
loves. I used to love them too. What rioht,
then, have I to complain ? Still, in my then
sorrow the want seemed greater than I could
bear. At the same time the news of Sydney's

death, joined with my other troubles, brought
on an attack of illness which threatened for a
while to have a fatal termination. Then I
doubly reproached myself for my conduct to
you, and for my heartless rejection of the love
which I now felt, when too late, to be of more
value than gold. But in spite of all I gradually
recovered, and the time came when I was well
enough to resume my place in a life whose
social duties have become to me but as a
tedious treadmill  a hollow, empty life, calling
into being no deeper, nobler feelings."

" But surely, surely, Julia, it need not belike
that ! "

'how can it be otherwise ? What can make
it different ? It is my duty to follow the path
Sir Leopold desires."

'' Yes," said Kate, musingly, " that must be
your first duty."

Then she went on, half timidly, '' Do you
not think that for happiness or unhappiness
our lives depend more upon what we are in
ourselves than upon our outward circumstances }
Are not love and sympathy within the reach
of all, if we but know where to seek them ?
May it not be that human sympathy is sometimes

denied to us that we may learn to prize
and seek that which is Divine? Oh, Juba !
can you  can any of us say with truth that
we are condemned to lead a life in which the
highest feelings of our nature may not be called
into existence ? "

Julia shook her head, sorrowfully.

** It may be so for you, Kate ; but I am of
the world, worldly. True I am satiated with
wealth and splendour, and I feel their utter
incompetence to satisfy an aching heart. Still
it is human love, human sympathy, for which
I crave, and that in my home. Tell me, when
Sydney left you, when you lost your child, did
the love and sympathy of which you speak
support you through your trials, and stop your
heart from aching ? "

No, not at once," answered Kate, sadly, and
with an expression of pain; 'you remind me
that I have no right to try and teach another
that which I know myself but so imperfectly."

She paused, and then her eyes lighted up,
and a sweet, although serious smile rested upon
her lips as she spoke again.

And yet I think I have a little faith, a lite
hope, which have helped me on. Enough to

give me some faint understanding of what they
must be in their true perfection. Even trouble
and sorrow are not all pain. They strengthen
within us the perception of a future which will
not fade away."

As Kate spoke, Julia watched her with a
wondering envy.

'' Do you really feel that ? " she asked. '' Do
you really believe that your own troubles and
sorrows have been sent for good ? "

'eyes," said Kate, "I do."

"If you needed them, then must I require
a double share ! But you are not like me ;
you have not been condemned to look upon
happiness once despised, but now longed for
in vain. I have not told you that my old lover
married a year after I did. Once, and once
only, have I met him. It was at a large
evening party. We were late, and on entering
the room he was the first person whom I saw.
Probably he also had not been there long, for
he still stood by his wife  a young and pretty
creature. My eye caught his, and I bowed.
Coldly and stiffly he acknowledged the salute.
His wife looked up to him and spoke, and he
answered in a gentle, protecting way. It was

the end of the evening before an opportunity
came of speaking to him. ' You must allow
an old friend to congratulate you on your
marriage,' I said. He met me with a look
which cut to the quick. ' Thank you,' he
answered, very slowly and distinctly. ' A hothouse
plant once refused to bloom in the
purlieus of the temple ; I have transplanted
thither a country violet, and it fills my home
with fragrance.' At that moment he saw his
wife coming towards him. ' Excuse me,' he
added, * I see my wife is looking for me to
take her home. Good evening, Lady Isaac'
A mist seemed to steal over my senses
until I heard the cold, ceremonious voice
of Sir Leopold asking if I were ready to
depart."

There was a short silence. With her quick
sympathies Kate felt keenly for Julia. The life
laid bare seemed embittered beyond her simple
art to soothe or guide. She was silent, for she
knew not what to say. Her sympathy was too
deep for words ; but it shone from her speaking
face.

'' Kate," said Julia, at last, " I know not why
I have spoken thus to you. I may have pained

and wearied you, and probably done myself no
good."

Then, with a softening smile, and taking
Kate's hand, she added, " But after all, how
young you look still ! I hope I may live to see
you bright and happy once again. You are the
very woman to inspire love in a man whose
love is worth the winning."

In an instant Kate's cheek and brow were
dyed by a vivid blush.

"No, Julia, I shall never marry again."

You may think so now, but time works
wonders. Remember what I have lost ; and
when the time comes, as come it will, do not
refuse  from any romantic idea of cherishing
Sydney's memory  the love of a man whom
you can love in return. None loved Sydney
better than I ; yet nothing would please me
more than to see you the happy wife of one
worthy of you. There, I will say no more.
And now, Kate, I have been here long enough,
and must go. Give me one more forgiving
kiss, and then let me ring for the carriage."

Kate saw with secret wonder how quickly
all signs of recent emotion were banished from
Julia's face. It was difficult to believe that the

handsome, haughty woman who left the room
was the same Julia who had humbly implored
her forgiveness so short a time before.

It was only when Julia had left that Kate
became conscious of an utter exhaustion both
mental and bodily. She had hardly sufficient
strength to carry her trembling limbs upstairs.
Then nature gave way under the strain that
had been laid upon it, and there followed a
violent and uncontrollable fit of weeping.

An hour later, Keziah found her almost worn
out. In alarm she brought Mrs. Vale ; and the
old nurse, divining that the interviews of the
day had been most trying, soothed and tended
Kate with affectionate care.

Keziah had returned to England with Kate.
She had grown much attached to Mrs. Ramsay
and her children, and it had been a hard struggle
to leave them ; but equally hard would it have
been to part from her first mistress.

Kate knew her to be invaluable to Mary, and
for that reason wished her to remain at the
estanfia. But Mary would not hear of Kate
returning home alone.

Mrs. Vale had become somewhat advanced
in years for the duties of maid. She was too

good a woman to be jealous of a successor ;
and there were no better friends in the household
than she and Kezlah. Sincere affection
for Kate animated them both.

Kate did not leave her room again that night.
But later In the evening she did a somewhat
strange thing. She took from one of the
recesses of her dressing-case a gold locket. It
was set with no jewels, but was richly chased,
and of uncommon and artistic beauty. It contained
two empty spaces for hair. Kate opened
these, and placed In each a curl of hair tied with
blue silk. One was a silver lock  the other of
the palest, softest gold. This done, she attached
the locket to a ribbon, and placed It round her
neck ; and so henceforth she carried It, concealed
from view.

The locket was that which she had won on
the day of the gdivdnfete at Belton so long 
at least It seemed so now  so very long ago.

CALLED TO ACCOUNT.

Roger returned to Belton In a serious mood
but not without hope for the future.

He left London by a late train, and congratulated
himself on finding a carriage with
but one other occupant, and that one a perfect
stranger.

The dim light in the railway-carriage, the
blackness outside, when the gas-lamps of the
London streets were left behind, the rapid
motion  all seemed to aid reflection, and produce
a dreamy, soothing effect upon the mind.

Over and over again he recalled every word,
every look, of the morning's interview. The
tones of Kate's voice still rang in his ears.
How sweet it had been to hear them again,
and to see that dear face once more !

When the words that told her of his love had

passed his lips, his first feeling had been one
of unmixed regret that he had allowed himself
to be so carried away. But upon reflection he
was glad. At least she knew his love, and that
knowledge might bear fruit, might in time bring
her to regard him with something more than a
sisterly interest, a sisterly affection.

It could even hardly be said that he felt disappointed.
Even at the time, nothing was
further from his expectation than that she
would lend a favourable ear to his suit. In
fact  strange contradiction !  he did not desire
it. She had acted and spoken just as he could
have foretold she would do. He but loved her
the more, because she had been true to herself.

And as he conned each word and gesture,
he felt a thrill of hope. It was not in her
nature to be cold ; but her agitation had been
so intense, her pain in his pain so deep, that
he felt the germs existed of a satisfying love  a
love not of the sister or the friend, but a love
which might some day weld their lives into one.

Another belief had also taken root, and he
could hardly have explained whence it had
arisen. But there it was  strong and undying.
His heart almost condemned him for cherishing

VOL. III. 5

such a thought, but he was human, and it
filled him with joy. Kate's face was open as a
book ; he could see that she had suffered deeply
in her affections ; but he believed  nay, he was
almost sure  that she had buried no broken
heart in her husband's grave. Love, such ashe
felt for her ; love, of a kind that does not
come to every one  not even to all who are
happily wedded  had not yet touched her soul.
So he thought ; and, maybe, it remained for
him to light the torch.

And, with hope as a beacon, he could wait.
He always knew that he would have to wait.
Looking back upon past years, and to the
time when once before he had left her with
no hope for the future, how bright by contrast
was the present !

He was conscious of new strength  of a new
resolve. Life began to unfold itself, wider,
brighter, more full of sympathies. Before he
saw Kate, the rising sun had but touched the
mountain peaks with its rosy finger. Now it
had chased the mists from deep clefts and sloping
ridge, leaving them bathed in a glow of light.
Surely in time the radiance would creep from
the distant mountains, and, reaching the very

spot on which he stood, change hope Into
fruition. He felt that 

*' Still may Hope her talisman employ
To snatch from heaven anticipated joy,.
And all her kindred energies impart
That burn the brightest in the purest heart."

The one circumstance that gave a tinge of
anxiety to his thoughts was the evident delicacy
of Kate's health. But he had Mr. Beaumont's
assurance that her physician denied the existence
of any serious cause for apprehension,
and from this opinion he endeavoured to
extract comfort. A winter in the balmy air
of Sorrento would work wonders. Forthwith
he felt feverishly anxious to hear that she had
left England. It might be several months
before they met again, but after what had
passed it would be better so. He must learn
to meet her more calmly, and beware of
speaking prematurely a second time. For the
moment, no anxiety lest another should supplant
him troubled his peace. He trusted to
knowledge of his love, and once more rejoiced
that at length she possessed that knowledge.

As Roger neared home, his thoughts turned
to a more painful subject. He began to think

of his mother, and the share she had taken
in furthering events which had changed the
destiny of his Hfe. No ! even now he could
not believe her to have been guilty of a
deliberate intention to mislead Kate. Even
to himself he shrank from using the word
deceive. It was hateful to him ; and, in connection
with his mother, unendurable. His
mother to deceive ! She whom he had always
revered as the soul of honour! There must
be some mistake  something that she could
explain away. At least he would withhold
his judgment until the fact was refuted by
herself. Heaven forbid that it should be
confirmed !

The veneration with which he regarded his
mother's high integrity and sterner virtues had
unconsciously been augmented and dwelt upon
to compensate for a lack of womanly softness
and tenderness. Often and often he called to
mind her devotion to husband and children in
the early days of narrow means ; and thus
strove to still the yearning for that sympathy
and oneness which are so beautiful to behold,
so satisfying to feel, when they crown the love
of mother and son. Yet visions would arise,

unbidden, of what life might be, were such a
harmony existent between his mother and
himself.

Perhaps there was no part of Kate's nature
that endeared her to Roger more than her
eagerness to give and receive sympathy.

A Hfe spent in companionship with Kate 
with her who would be ever ready to respond
to each thought and each high aspiration 
appeared to him a life as near a perfect
happiness as aught could be.

But that was still far off  a dream of the
future. He must rein in his wandering thoughts,
and fix them on those things which concerned
the present.

Before reaching home he had come to this
decision  he would speak to his mother frankly
on the subject which so troubled him. He
could not live happily with her otherwise.
Such a knowledge. If kept to himself, would
grow to be an icy wall between them.

Roger was not one to act hurriedly in a
matter of such importance. He determined to
give himself time for reflection, both on what
to say and on what to leave unsaid. But, as
is often the case, the time for speaking was not

to be left to him, but was thrust upon him
unawares.

The evening was far advanced when he
reached home, and he found visitors there 
a General and Mrs. Palmer, old friends of his
mother. The following day was the one
appropriated to his weekly visit to Primrose Hill,
and he slept that night at the Lesliess' house.
Then the last days of the week were taken up
by magisterial work, and other business that
kept him from home for most of his time ; and
in the evenings the presence of their visitors
prevented the possibility of a tete-astute.

On Saturday the Palmers left, and Roger
was conscious of a painful restraint when alone
with his mother. Still he hesitated to broach
the subject on which his mind dwelt so continually.


As they came together out of church on
Sunday morning, Major Stephens was waiting
outside the porch.

Good day, Mrs. North  how are you,
North ? I shall not see you again for a week,
for we are off to London tomorrow."

Indeed ! " replied Mrs. North ; '' I did not
know,'

'eyes," said the Major, ruefully. "I shall
miss two of the best meets of the season.
There are no better than Pytcherly Common
and Wyebank Hall. What runs we had from
them last season ! and my horses are in such
condition now. If the weather does not change
it is just perfection. Pity it is Sunday to-day."

The day was cloudy, mild, and inclined to
drizzle ; by no means so delightful, except from
a sportsman's view.

You must have some very great inducement
to take you to town," remarked Mrs. North.

'' Ah, yes, don't you know ? it is my wife.
She is so anxious to see poor Kate once mora
We are going to stay with Beaumont. I suppose
you have been there already, eh. North ? '

'' Yes."

Roger felt, rather than saw, that his mother
gave him one quick penetrating glance. There
was an inflection in her voice that he knew
well as she spoke again.

*' I will say good-bye, Major. I see the
carriage waiting, and it is damp standing
here."

In the afternoon Mrs. North again went to
church. All the Sundays of her life she had

been accustomed to go twice, and though the
afternoon service was not conducted altogether
according to her taste, the appointed hour rarely
found her absent. Like many of her generation
she had an intense dislike to evening service.
The custom had grown up since she was young,
and she regarded the innovation as something
sensational, and therefore enervating rather than
strengthening. Mr. Hill had been the first to
introduce it at Belton, and had taken great
pains to render the service as fully choral and
as attractive as possible. On the other hand,
the afternoon was more especially devoted to
the school-children. In place of a sermon the
rector questioned them on the Church catechism,
supplementing his questions with explanations
intended to be lucid and instructive,
not to them alone, but also to the rest of the
congregation. This was a custom which Mrs.
North most cordially detested. Still, rather
than attend the evening service, or depart from
precedent, Sunday after Sunday found her
among the congregation in the afternoon.

Like his mother, Roger did not appreciate
the catechising, but was far from sharing in her
objection to the evening service, and attended

regularly, unless guests whom he did not like
to leave were at the Hall.

It was rather a sore subject. Mrs. North
said nothing, but none the less did Roger feel
her disapproval. On this Sunday, as usual,
each went their separate way, and saw little of
one another until Roger entered the drawing-room
about nine o'clock. However much
pressed to stay at the rectory, he consistently
declined the invitation. His mother might
always depend upon his companionship for the
last hour or two of Sunday evening.

To-day he was a little later than usual. A
tea-table was already spread with a white cloth
in somewhat old-fashioned style. The tea-things
were set out on a silver tray, and the
water was boiling in a silver urn.

Mrs. North moved from her chair by the
fire when Roger entered, and commenced filling
the cups. He approached, and kissed her forehead.


'' I am late, mother," he said, pleasantly ; " I
got wet coming home, and had to change my
coat."

'' I thought it was going to rain when you
started. I have been wishing you had not

gone ever since I heard the heavy rain comedown."


It was nothing to do one any harm. I
only mentioned it to account for my keeping
you waiting."

Roger drank his tea in silence. Mrs. North
had taken up a book, and was slowly turning
the pages. She only spoke to ask if he wished
for another cup, and, when they had finished,
rang the bell.

Then the leaves of her book were turned no
more. She sat very still for a while, but at
last she spoke.

** You did not tell me that you had been to
see Kate Ferrars."

No, but I had no intention of keeping it a
secret from you. The fact is, mother, that the
subject has hitherto failed to be a pleasant one
between us."

*' Do you mean, Roger, after all that has
happened, that you still retain the wish to make
her your wife ? "

In truth I do," he answered, fervently, '' if
she will consent."

*' If it only depends upon her, there can belittle
doubt of the result."

'' I wish I could think so ! "

He rose and paced the room nervously. The
conversation could hardly drop now without
touching upon a more painful subject. At last
he came and stood beside her, laying his hand
upon her shoulder.

"Mother!" he said, and his words seemed
wrung from him as if with pain, " I would give
anything I possess in the world  save my
chance of winning Kate  if you and I were atone
upon this point. Why cannot you reconcile
yourself to the thought of her as my wife ?
I know your love for me  none better. Why
does it not help you in this one matter to see
with my eyes ? to know that my love for her
will only die when I die  nay, not then. It is
a part of my being, impossible to be severed
from me."

I see, I believe ; but I deeply regret it, and
none the less now that she is another man's
widow."

For a moment Roger's brow contracted.
Then a grave and almost severe expression
deepened on his face, one that always came
when he felt keenly.

"It is a great trouble to me that we are so

divided in this. But there is something more
something I learned the other day, that has
given me even greater pain."

He paused to choose words which might
best soften what he had to say.

Mrs. North turned very white.

'' It may be a misapprehension," he continued ;
*' it may be only what you can explain away ;
but tell me, mother, did you, or did you not,
give your sanction to the report of my engagement
to Constance, by yourself speaking of it
as probable ? Nay, more, did you, when
writing to Kate and alluding to my marriage,
wish her to infer that the matter was as good
as settled ? Tell me, mother ! let me, at least,
know the truth now ! "

Mrs. North had once so far warped her
conscience as to bend it to the use of
words ambiguous and intended to mislead ;
but to tell a direct lie was to her an impossibility.


I am not aware that the report of your
engagement originated with me. It is true I
wished it, and I believe mentioned that wish
to more than one old friend. How my words
may have been twisted into an announcement



of the fact, you have sufficient knowledge of
the world's aptitude for gossip to infer. As
regards my letter to Kate, it was written before
you had confided to me your feelings towards
her. I had long hoped you would marry.
There was nothing extraordinary in my allusion
to that wish. I mentioned no name that I
remember."

'' True, but what concerns me is this : did
you wish to mislead her ? "

Roger looked at his mother as if he would
read into her very soul. Mrs. North did not
answer for a moment. Then she spoke quietly
and firmly.

"It is useless to enter into motives. As
you desire a direct answer, I will give you
one  yes."

Since the conversation opened, Roger had
expected no other answer. Yet when the
certainty came it fell upon him as a heavy
blow. He moved away, and sat down, resting
his elbows on his knees, and burying his face
between his hands.

Presently he looked up, and spoke.

Mother ! If I had known this in the early
days when I believed Kate was lost to me

for ever, I do not know how I could have
borne it ! "

Mrs. North's heart beat painfully ; but she
gave no outward sign, and remained silent.

Roger rose, and once more came and stood
by her side.

Mother," he said, in a low, stern voice,
"there is one thing you must promise. It
may be years before the day comes when Kate
will consent to be my wife  it may be never.
But you must promise, and before I leave this
room, that neither by word or act will you
interfere between us again. If you were todo
so, may God forgive you, for I should find
it a hard task to do so ! "

Mrs. North looked up. Could this be her
gentle son? His face was stern, as were his
words. Her eyes fell ; for the first time in
her life she was terrified  subdued by a man's
power.

'' I promise," she said.

Then a bitter cry welled up from her heart.

'' Oh, Roger ! oh, my son ! do not let this
girl rob me of your love."

No, mother ; nothing can do that. Can
you not see that my heart is wide enough to

hold the love of both ? And you little know
Kate if you think she would ever come
between us."

Then he stooped, and kissed her gently.

Poor mother! I believe the pain that you
have caused yourself has been hardly less great
than that which you have given me."

She did not speak. And so he kissed her
again ; and said good-night.

Mrs. North went upstairs at the accustomed
hour, and exchanged a few words with her
maid. But the small hours had come and gone
before she sought her couch ; and then no
sleep came to those hard and weary eye-balls.

'' I have fallen," she thought, " in my son's
esteem. He will but think more highly of her
he loves."

And afterwards, in spite of every effort on
Roger's part to forget his mother's act, it
would obtrude from time to time ; and she, at
least, was painfully aware that though he
forgave, he still remembered.

A Nemesis of her own creation had overtaken
Mrs. North at last.

A PAR TIE Carre.

The sun had shone all day upon London from
an unclouded sky, and now it had set in a
rich golden haze, but not a breath of wind
stirred the hot air. The walls and pavements,
which had drunk in the warm rays for so many
hours, in their turn communicated the heat
which they had absorbed to the atmosphere
around; and evening brought no refreshing
coolness.

The last week in July had come. The
season was almost over, and the crush in the
park was daily less. But Parliament had not
yet been prorogued ; the gay world had not
yet entirely dispersed to seek refreshment and
new pleasures in other haunts ; and in May fair
and Belgravia the quiet of August had not yet
succeeded to the bustle and gaiety of July.

Windows were wide open, inviting the
entrance of the cool breeze, which coquettishly
refused to be wooed, and loitered high in the
golden haze. Far pleasant this evening to
be one of a partie ca7rce than to share a
minimum of space and air in a crowded
assembly ; and so thought the four people
who were gathered round Mr. Beaumont's
table.

At the head of the table sat Kate. In a few
more months two years would have elapsed
since she resumed that post in her uncle's
house. In her case time seemed to have gone
back rather than forwards. Recovered health
had restored the bloom to her cheek. Always
sweet and attractive, she was now a woman
whom few could pass without a second look.
This evening she wore a soft white dress of
lace and muslin ; a few rows of tiny pearls
were clasped around her slender throat ; and
the only colour which she carried was a bunch
of dark roses that nestled among the lace in
the bosom of her dress. But the whiteness
was becoming, for it harmonized with the
purity of her colouring. Kate was one of
those fair women who look their best in white.

VOL. III. 6

At times like this, when animated, her laugh
was gay and ripping as ever. Those who
watched would have thought she was a girl
with life's deep waters all before her. It was
only when her face was in repose that the
shadow of the past was there. It had left its
mark behind, ennobling and purifying that of
her nature which was good and true before.
The guests of the evening were not mere
acquaintances. Both were familiar friends, for
the one was Lord Evered, the other Francis
Rivers, the artist. Kate laughingly called
Lord Evered her second uncle, and, at her
request, he had long dropped any more formal
address than that of her Christian name. He
had accompanied Mr. Beaumont and Kate to
Italy the first winter after her return to
England, and they had passed many months
together in intimate companionship. She was
dear to Lord Evered for her own sake, but for
him she also possessed a halo of romance. The
affection with which he regarded her differed
from any he felt for the children of his many
brothers and sisters, in that it was deepened and
coloured by something akin to mediaeval chivalry.
Of late, Francis Rivers had more and more

frequented Mr. Beaumont's house. He had
always been a welcome guest, but at one period
other numerous engagements had taken up his
time. Apparently he was as popular as ever,
and as much courted by the world of fashion ;
but if Mr. Beaumont asked him to Portland
Place it was seldom that he declined.

Above middle height, and well built, he was
a good-looking fellow, with a head whose shape
indicated a high order of intellect, rich in its
perceptive and imaginative powers. Abundant
wavy hair  fair, though not bright in tint  lent
the idea of a lion's mane, while on his face he
wore no beard or moustache to shade his well-cut
features. In manner he was quiet and
indolent, but capable of bursts of enthusiasm.
In return for the adulation of the world he
affected towards it a cynicism which his friends
knew to be but on the surface.

This is the hottest day we have had this
season," remarked Mr. Beaumont, not for the
first time. '' It is getting beyond bearing ; I
cannot stand London much longer."

*' It is very rarely that you remain in town
all July," said Rivers.

*' Yes," answered the other, " but accident

seems to have decreed it this year. I became
interested in my ItaHan landscapes, and did not
care to leave them unfinished for several months.
Then my niece's plans fell in with a later flitting.
Which day have you fixed to go to the Stephens',
Kate . "

"The end of next week, uncle. They cannot
have me sooner."

Well, if this weather continues, I shall tell
Benson to pack up for me the same day."

''Ah!" said Rivers, "the country must be
charming now. Running water and shady
trees are what man longs for on a day like this.
Why people who can do as they please choose
the summer months for a residence in London
passes comprehension ; and then by so doing
they condemn us working bees to remain in our
hot and crowded hive."

A good many reasons go to make up the
necessity for a summer season," said Lord
Evered. " But why should any of the present
company deny themselves the pleasure of cool
water and shade while this hot weather lasts ?
I am going to look at my place on the Thames
tomorrow afternoon ; why not all come with
me?"

"How delightful it would be ! " exclaimed
Kate. *' Do let us go, uncle."

I am sure that you would enjoy a few days
there," said Lord Evered. " Maple Place is
on one of the loveliest reaches of the Thames,
above Reading. The property came to me
through my mother. She passed her youth
there, so I have a feeling against selling it,
though I do not often live there. Usually the
place is let, but my tenant has lately left, and I
want to examine the state of the house, as I
hear that repairs are needed. A capital old
housekeeper is in charge, and if you will consent
to go down with me I will telegraph
tomorrow morning, and think I can promise
to make you fairly comfortable. What do you
say, Beaumont ? Are you agreeable ? "

Mr. Beaumont laughed.

'' Kate looks all eagerness ; she will give meno
peace if I do not say yes."

'' But I am sure, uncle, you would like it,
too," said Kate, in her coaxing way. 'Just fancy
how charming it would be during this hot
weather to spend all day upon the water ! And
I do so love fishing. Are there any fish, Lord
Evered?"

I am not much of an angler myself, Kate,
but no doubt there are."

'' That part of the Thames abounds in
gudgeon," remarked Rivers, '' and if I am to
fish give me gudgeon. They consent to be
caught, which, to my thinking, is the first duty offish.
I was there once, with some friends, and
we had great sport."

"You seem to know all about it. Rivers,"
said Lord Evered. "You must not refuse to
be of the party, and give Mrs. Ferrars the
benefit of your experience."

Rivers hesitated.

Oh ! do come, Mr. Rivers," said Kate,
eagerly. " I must have some one to fish with
me, and I believe both Lord Evered and my
uncle would prefer to sit in the boat and do
nothing. It is such a long, long time since I
have had a day's fishing, and I used to like it
so much when I was a child."

Rivers' face brightened.

If I can minister to your amusement, Mrs.
Ferrars, I shall be delighted. Thank you," he
said, turning to Lord Evered ; " I accept with
pleasure."

By the way, Kate," remarked Mr. Beaumont,

" are we not engaged for a musical sonee
at Lady Isaac's tomorrow night ? "

'' Yes, I had forgotten," she said, and her
face fell ; but, after a moment's consideration,
she added, ''I will go and see Julia in the
morning, and I am sure, if I explain our plans,
she will not mind."

'' Then I may look upon the matter as
settled?" inquired Lord Evered. And "Yes,"
was the general answer.

Later in the evening, when they were in the
drawing-room, Kate was seated on a low chair
by an open window, and Rivers stood near her.
Mr. Beaumont and Lord Evered were still deep
in the discussion of some topic started in the
dining-room.

'' This is a delightful thought of Lord Evered,"
he said ; '' I shall enjoy the expedition above
all things."

'' Yes," answered Kate, with a sigh of
pleasure ; ''a breath of country air will be
delightful. I am a true rustic at heart ; and
when in town often feel as if I should like
to knock the houses down and have more open
space about me."

Do you really tire of London so quickly . '

said Rivers, regretfully. "It seems to me that
you are here very little ; you are always going
away."

'* I suppose we have been away a good deal.
Two winters we have been abroad, and a good
part of last summer and autumn I was with my
sister in Scotland."

"Are you going abroad again next winter?"

I think not. Uncle has planned a tour on
the Continent for himself, whilst I pay some
visits to old friends, and then go to my sister.
When the weather begins to grow cold in
Scotland we shall both come home."

I am glad," said Rivers, shortly. '' Mrs.
Ferrars ! you have never been to the studio
again, and you promised to come. Now I
suppose I must wait until you settle down
for the winter."

Yes ; I am so sorry. We really intended
to come, and' I want to see your pictures very
much."

Rivers looked at her a moment, and then,
with a half-impatient gesture, stepped out upon
the balcony. It was crowded with flowers
and creepers, which formed a pleasant screen,
shading it from the street and the houses on

either side. The summer twilight still lingered,
and the larger stars were but beginning to show
themselves like diamond specks.

'rit is cooler here," said River, turning to
Kate. "Won't you come outside?"

She rose, and moved on to the balcony.
The bright lamp-light shone through the window,
and illumined her white dress and the
background of green leaves. Her head was
raised ; she was gazing into the sky at a bright
star that had just become visible in the blue-black
vault above.

Rivers watched her for some time, and then
he said, 

Mrs. Ferrars, when do you intend to give
me a sitting ? I should like to paint you as
you are now  in that white filmy dress, with
a dark background."

Kate started at the sound of his voice. Her
thoughts had travelled far away.

I don't want a picture of myself," she said.

'but your uncle may," answered Rivers.
"You will give me a sitting some day, won't
you ? " he added, persuasively.

No," said Kate, a little gravely. " Please
do not ask me again."

Then, turning her head, she looked into the
room.

There is Lord Evered going to the piano.
I expect he wants me to sing. You will like
some music too, I know." She spoke in her
winning manner, and then passed through the
window.

Rivers watched her as she moved across the
room. He sighed, and leaned over the balcony
to allow the cool air to fan his brow. But when
the first notes of Kate's voice sounded, he, too,
went inside.

SIR Leopold's heart.

Before noon on the following day, the victoria
that Mr. Beaumont kept expressly for his niece
drew up at the door of a house in Park Lane.
A shade of disappointment came over Kate's
face when the footman returned to say that
Lady Isaac was not at home. She was about
to leave a note, written in case of such an
accident, when a sudden thought occurred, and
she told the man to inquire If Miss Ferrars
were within. The answer was in the affirmative
; and Kate, alighting from the carriage,
was conducted to a small drawing-room  one
of a handsome suite of rooms on the first floor.
The connecting doors were closed, but sounds
penetrated through them, telling of preparations
for the evening.

She had but a few minutes to wait before

the door was quickly opened, and the girl who
entered came forward with rapid steps, and
threw both arms round her neck.

*' My darling Kate ! this is a sight for
sir been.' How good of you to come this
morning ! "

It was Barbara Ferrars. She was nineteen
now ; and though small, somewhat sallow, and
slightly deformed, as she ever must be, she
was very different to the sickly, unhappy child
whose heart Kate had won at their first
meeting. The discontented expression had
left her face, whilst the shrewdness and intelligence
remained. These, with a brightness
that was the growth of later years, rendered
her attractive, despite the want of physical
beauty.

Kate returned her embrace warmly.

'T fear I must confess, Barbara, that I did
not come expressly to see you ; in fact, I did
not know for certain that you were here, and
nearly drove away without inquiring. Neither
you nor Julia will be so well pleased when I
confess the real object of my early call."

'' Oh ! I guess, then, what it is," exclaimed
Barbara, giving her a playful shake. '* You



are going to make excuses for not coming
to-night."

'' You have guessed aright ; " and then Kate
proceeded to explain the plan that had been
arranged on the previous evening.

'' I do not know what Julia and Sir Leopold
will say," said Barbara, shaking her head
severely. 'julia has gone to attend a committee
meeting of a ladles' society for the
protection of shop girls, but they will both
be home for luncheon, and at least you
must remain and make your apologies very
humbly."

'' I hope you don't think they will be really
annoyed ?" asked Kate, anxiously.

'' If you will send away your carriage, and
order It to come at half-past three," said
Barbara, with authority, " I will stand your
friend, and then perhaps we will get them tolet
you off this once."

Very well, I can do that. Our train does
not leave until half-past five."

Barbara rang the bell, and gave the necessary
orders. Her manner to Kate was playful
and almost childish. But she drew up her
small person to Its full height, and spoke to

the powdered footman with a dignity that
caused Kate Intense amusement.

Come upstairs and take off your bonnet,"
said Barbara, when they were alone once more,
'' and then you shall have a sight of the baby.
Madam the head nurse Is absent, and we shall
be allowed for once to touch him If we feel
inclined. I do not know what Is to become
of the poor child If he Is to grow up in such
an atmosphere of grandeur. When he Is a
little older a hay-field and some mud-pies
would do him more good than all the doctors."

'' Do you think him very delicate ? I have
so seldom seen him."

*' I fear he is ; but you shall have a good
look and judge for yourself."

The nurseries to which they went justified
Barbara description. A suite of rooms In
one of the best parts of the house had been
devoted to the use of the second child born
to Julia and Sir Leopold. The rooms were
beautifully furnished in light woodwork Soft
carpets covered the floors. The wall papers
and chintz hangings had been carefully selected
so as to render the tot ensemble both bright
and cheerful.



The head nurse  a lady who did but little
herself  ruled there supreme, with three attendants
at her beck and call. Of the latter, two
were always dressed in white, and these alone
were allowed to touch the baby. The third
was kept in the background, and on her
devolved the real work.

In the largest and handsomest of the rooms,
upon the soft carpet, propped by cushions and
surrounded by toys, reclined the little fellow of
twelve months. One of the under nurses sat
by him, trying to attract his attention and
draw forth an occasional smile. But the child
seemed unresponsive. White and thin, with
heavy, expressionless face, he formed a pathetic
contrast to his richly-embroidered dress and
the evidences of wealth by which he was
surrounded.

Kate loved children ; and a little grave, faraway
under the light of the southern cross, had
left her heart even yet more tender towards all
little ones. A feeling of pity and pain welled
up as she looked, and, lifting the child m her
arms, she sat down with him on her lap. He
did not take any notice, or cry, as most babies
would have done.

*' Poor little fellow ! is he never brighter ? "
she asked.

No, ma'am, he's always much the same."

Can he walk yet ? "

'* Oh, dear no, ma'am ! He don't try, nor
even to crawl."

'' Poor little fellow ! " repeated Kate ; and
she pressed the little face to hers and kissed his
white brow.

The under nurse was pleased to see visitors.
The opportunity for talking in the absence of
her superior was one that she did not often
enjoy.

"tis a real pity, ma'am, that he's not more
like other children. It makes me feel quite
sorry when I see Sir Leopold come in here
and talk to him, and try and get him to take
notice."

Does Sir Leopold often come ? " asked
Kate, rather surprised.

Indeed he does, ma'am. He never misses
a day ; but he never comes with my lady. It is
generally when she Is dressing or out. Sometimes
he'll only stay a few minutes ; but other
times. If the little master takes more notice,
he'll be here as long as twenty minutes. One

day he brought a bright ball ; and I shall never
forget how he looked when Master Leopold held
out his hand and touched It, and made a little
crow as If he was pleased. I looked away quick,
but I do believe I saw the tears In his eyes."

Barbara was listening attentively, but said
nothing. When they had left the nurseries she
exclaimed :

'' I always knew that man had a heart ! "

*' What do you mean, Barbara ? "

'' Come Into Julia's boudoir, and we'll have a
good talk."

The room to which Barbara led Kate was the
perfection of luxury. A dado of rich dark
brocade covered the walls to a height of about
four feet. Above, they were panelled with satin
of a willow-green tint, margined with a rich
border of pomegranates In coloured silk and gold
thread. A few small paintings,  evidently gems,
and backed with dark velvet,  together with
some specimens of the most recherche china,
broke the monotony of the panels. Each chair
and table was In Itself a work of art. Delicate
lace curtains, draped back from the window,
allowed a glimpse Into a conservatory, where
ferns were growing amid rock-work, and baskets

VOL. IIK 7

bright with flowers hung pendent from above.
In the centre, a fountain splashed clear cool
water into a marble basin.

Barbara made Kate sit down upon a low
chair, whence she had a full view of the green
ferns and dancing water. Then she seated
herself on a cushion at her feet.

'' Now I will tell you what I meant," she said.
It is Sir Leopold who has a heart, and
what puzzles me is that he and Julia do not
understand each other. They are models of
politeness, and consideration, and all that sort
of thing, but oh ! so freezing cold," and
Barbara shivered.

** Is that so, Barbara? I am sorry. I had
always hoped that when baby vas born he
would bring them together."

Barbara shook her head.

*' I cannot see that it has made any difference
; and as the baby will certainly either die
or become an idiot I do not see what can be
hoped for from him. It is very strange," she
added, musingly, " that Julia and Sir Leopold
should not suit one another. He is the sort
of man just made for her. For my own part
we are very good friends. I like him by far

the best of all my brothers-in-law. In fact,
if all my sisters were dead, and the Deceased
Wife's Sister's Bill were passed, he is the only
one of them all who would tempt me to take
advantage of it."

*' Barbara ! how can you talk such nonsense?"
said Kate, quite shocked.

'' I really mean it," said Barbara, with
pretended gravity. " When I come here I
can enjoy a little intellectual conversation ;
but if I go to Mabel, bah !  I hear of nothing
but hunting in the winter, and fat cattle,
and pigs, and horses turned out to grass in
the summer, until I expect to be fatted up and
taken to market myself. And the husbands
of Gertrude and Frances are no better. One
has an army hobby, and the other confines
his studies to the Field and the * Peerage.' "

*' You have told me nothing of your mother
yet," said Kate, after a pause.

There is not much to tell. She is in a
chronic state of low spirits. I could not have
left home had not Gertrude and her children
arrived, and I thought it might do both
mamma and me good to have a break. She
is for ever talking of Frederick when papa

is not at hand. The separation from him
seems to prey upon her more and more. I
think I shall speak to papa about it. I believe
he would be glad of a reconciliation. Of
course Frederick was very stupid to marry
as he did ; but it cannot be undone, and I
think we had better make the best of it.
Don't you, Kate? "

*' Indeed I do. It often weighs upon my
mind when I am in London to think that
Frederick should be living in the same city,
and yet that I never see him or take any
notice of his wife and children."

' Then it ought to weigh a great deal more
upon us ! Reginald goes to see him sometimes,
and he says that his wife is quite nice,
and that the children are dear little things.
Reginald told me  but he has never said a
word about his visits to papa or mamma, and
has forbidden me to do so."

*' Has Reginald really been to see him ? "
said Kate, with pleasure. ' How good of
him!"

"Well," said Barbara, in her determined
manner, '' if you are of the same opinion, that
it is time the whole thing was made up, I

shall speak to papa on the first opportunity ;
and I shall not care a bit if he is angry! "

The hour for luncheon had arrived before
Julia appeared. Hearing that Kate was in
the house she came at once to seek her. The
cold, proud look, habitual to her face, had left
it for a moment.

'' How nice to see you, Kate ! I envy
Barbara her quiet talk while I have been all
the morning in a close and crowded room."

Then Kate had to explain her errand.

Julia looked annoyed ; and seeing this Kate
took her hand beseechingly.

*' Don't be vexed! It will take away all
my pleasure if you are. I am sure you would
forgive me if you understood what the temptation
is to me of a day on the river. But we
will give it up even now if you are really
vexed."

No, no," said Julia, smiling at Kate's
caressing way. " I won't quarrel with you
you must do what best pleases you."

At luncheon they were joined by Sir
Leopold. Kate was a favourite, and he
greeted her with marked pleasure. He was a
man who could talk agreeably and well, and

he threw himself into a lively conversation
with her and Barbara. Kate noticed that
Julia spoke little, and seemed out of spirits.

We shall have the pleasure of seeing you
and Mr. Beaumont this evening," remarked
Sir Leopold, as they rose to leave the table.

*'I am afraid not," answered Kate; "in fact,
I came this morning to ask Julia to excuse us."

Indeed ! I am sorry to hear that."

*' Kate has been tempted to desert us by
an invitation to Lord Evered's place on the
Thames," interposed Julia, " and I have
promised to forgive her."

In that case I can say nothing," replied
Sir Leopold, with studied politeness, " beyond
expressing my regret that we shall lose the
pleasure of numbering her and Mr. Beaumont
among our friends this evening. I will say
good-bye now, Mrs. Ferrars. I have an engagement
to keep, and it is already overdue."

"shall you not accompany me this afternoon
to Lady Engrave's ? " asked Julia.

* Impossible,  you must make my excuses.
Good-bye, Mrs. Ferrars."

"Good-bye," answered Kate; and then as
she turned she caught sight of Julia's face.

She was regarding her husband with a look of
pain, whose meaning Kate failed to interpret.
In a moment it was gone, and drawing Kate's
arm within her own they went upstairs.

That afternoon Mr. Beaumont and Kate
almost missed the train which was to convey
them to Maple Place. The engine was letting
off superfluous steam, and guards were examining
tickets, when they appeared upon the
platform. Lord Evered and Francis Rivers
were waiting, and had almost given them up.
The train was crowded, and it was hard to
find places. Kate and her maid were hurried
into two vacant seats in a carriage close at
hand, while the gentlemen separated and
went elsewhere. They had scarcely time to
take their seats before the train moved on.

It was a few minutes before Kate sufficiently
recovered from the bustle and confusion of
their entrance to notice the other people in
the carriage. Then her attention was attracted
by a child, who was sitting upon the knee of
a lady on the opposite side. He was a
handsome boy of three years old, with bright
curly hair and large blue eyes, which last he
was using to stare at Kate with all his power.

Something in the look of those eyes
seemed strangely familiar, and involuntarily
she glanced at the face of the mother, to see
if she were a friend or acquaintance.

No, she had never seen the lady before,
nor was the child like his mother. The latter
was decidedly fair, good-looking, but possibly
a shade wanting in refinement, and somewhat
showily dressed. Next to her sat a nurse, with
a baby in her arms. The gentleman of the
party had moved from his seat by the door to
make room for Kate, and had placed himself
on the same side but beyond Keziah. A
pretty little girl sat on his knee. Kate could
not see his face, and supposed him, like the
lady, to be a perfect stranger.

Still the blue eyes of the child puzzled her.
Whose did they resemble ? Suddenly it came
upon her. They were the eyes peculiar to
many of the Ferrars family  they were like
Sydney's.

The little girl began to cry, and the gentleman
changed places with the nurse so that
she might be near her mother. Then Kate
had a full view of his face.'

It was Frederick Ferrars.

Apparently he did not recognize her, or if
he did he made no sign. They had not met
since the date of Kate's marriage, more than
four years ago.

Ever impulsive, Kate stretched out her
hand.

Oh, Frederick, I am so glad to see you ! "

He started, and flushed crimson. Then, as
if not knowing what else to do, almost
reluctantly took her proffered hand.

I have been so sorry never to have seen
you before," continued Kate, eagerly; " I have
thought about it so often, and wished to come
and see you. This lady is your wife, I am
sure. Will you introduce me ? "

Frederick turned, and spoke in a low tone
to his wife. She too grew crimson ; and a
proud, defiant look shone in her face.

More timidly Kate held out her hand.

*' Though this meeting has been by accident,
I hope that it may be the first of many.
I may come and see you on my return to town,
may I not ? "

The defiant face softened under the influence
of Kate's gentle ways.

*' You are the first of my husband's family,

save Reginald, who has taken any notice of
me," she said, in a low tone. "Yes, I shall
be very glad if you will come ! "

Then followed a pause, broken by Kate,
*' What dear children you have ! What is
your boy's name?"

*' Frederick, but we call him Tic."
Kate coaxed the child to her knee, and
made friends with him.

Through the medium of the children the
conversation became easier ; and Kate learned
that Frederick was taking his family to a house
near Reading, which he had rented for the
next two or three months. But almost all the
time her thoughts were preoccupied with
what she must say to him before they left the
train. Courage to speak did not come until
the last moment. The red-brick houses and
neat streets of Reading were already near
when she bent forward, and spoke hurriedly.
Frederick, T saw Barbara this morning.
She was telling me how much your mother
feels the separation, and she thinks your
father too would be glad of any opening for
reconciliation. Think of this, and consider if
you cannot find a way to make the first advance.

If I can help by any means I shall be too
glad."

** Thank you, Kate ; you were always
tender-hearted," said Frederick, with some
feeling. " Thank you also for your kindness
now, which I shall never forget. The separation
from my family has been most painful."

He wrung her hand, cordially.

There was no time save for a hurried goodbye.
Then during the remainder of the journey
Kate pondered how strangely this meeting
chanced  following so closely upon the conversation
of the morning.

MAPLE PLACE.

Maple Place was one of those delightful old
houses of which not a few lend an added
beauty to the banks of the gently flowing
Thames. Dating from the Elizabethan
period, its many-gabled roof, with here and
there a dormer-window, was artistically charming.
Seen from the river it was embowered
in ancient elms and maples ; and these, receding
to right and left, allowed a mossy lawn
stretching between their wide arms to sweep
to the river bank. Ivy crept up the decorated
chimneys ; the passion flower, roses, and
jasmine grew there, luxuriantly wreathing
themselves about the upper windows. Moss-grown
vases, and rustic baskets, gay with
geraniums, verbenas, cancellaria, and suchlike
flowers, formed bright masses of colour

set in the soft rich green afforded by the
lawn and trees. It was a fair picture ; and
voyagers on the river would pause to gaze,
and think that man need ask no lovelier home.
Possibly in autumn and winter it had some
drawbacks  undreamt of when the early
August sun shone with a dazzling brilliancy,
and banished all memory of damp or fog.

And the river ! How delightful it was !
flowing tranquilly between its hilly, richly-wooded
banks. And by Maple Place the
stream made a somewhat sharp turn, so that
in both directions the view was limited ; and
gave to the water the appearance of a narrow
lakelet rather than of a deep river. Below the
hills receded the river broadened, and the
landscape widened on either hand.

Beyond the bend, and out of sight of Maple
Place, a punt was floating on the bright
stream. Seated in the punt were the four
friends who in town, two nights ago, had
longed for running water and fresh country
air. Their wish had been realized  the place
and the day were all they could desire. No
painter could conceive a lovelier landscape ;
for rich and tender beauty other countries

might rival, but they could not produce a
fairer spot.

What colour was the water? A question
hard to answer. It was as a mirror, reflecting
each surrounding tint, and the tints were
legion.

Above, the blue sky reigned sovereign ;
and, where it was reflected, blue seemed the
water. Nearer to the bank, the overhanging
trees were pictured in wavy lines of soft
variety. Then, too, the aquatic plants, with
their many shades ! Great beds of flags with
broad green leaves, deepening into madder ;
tall bulrushes, lifting their russet heads ; and
in sheltered nooks of quieter water floated the
large green leaves and cup-like flowers of the
water lily, queen of the river.

The air was sweet with many odours, wafted
from the fertile land. For rich in wild flowers
are the valleys of the Thames  each yielding
its own perfume, the which carried by the
breeze mingles with the scent of fragrant
pine woods.

And for the ear, had not Nature attuned
one of her sweetest concerts ? Airy songsters
were carolling far and near. On the banks

the sedge-warblers sang their borrowed song
strange medley from the notes of other
birds. Farther removed, and from yon
umbrageous wood, came the soft cooing of
the wood-pigeon  tender, soothing, and fit
accompaniment to idle summer days. And
ever and anon, from flowery mead, a lark
would soar, joyously ascending until its song,
fading in far distance, seemed more gladsome
and more glorious than any sound which
reached the nether world.

These formed the orchestra ; and the gentle
sighing of the breeze, and the ripple of the
water, softened each louder, harsher note,
preventing discord.

* I wonder what the birds are saying?" said
Kate, dreamily, as she gazed across the water
towards the richly-wooded banks.

'don't you know," said Lord Evered, who
reclined by her side ; ' then I must tell you in
the words of the poet :

Do you ask what the birds say ? The sparrow, the
dove,
The linnet, and thrush say, "I love and I love!"
In the winter they're silent  the wind is so strong ;
What it says I don't know, but it sings a loud song.

But green leaves, and blossoms, and sunny warm

weather,
And singing, and loving  all come back together.
But the lark is so brimful of gladness and love,
The green fields below him, the blue sky above.
That he sings, and he sings ; and for ever sings he 
I love my love, and my love loves me ! '" "

How pretty ! Then the lark is the bird
of true love ? "

'* Nay, say rather of reciprocal love. Truelove,
and sometimes the truest, is not always
that."

"Ah!" murmured Rivers to himself, ashe
bent over his fishing-rod  " I love my
love, but does my love love me?"

The shadows grew longer and longer. All
day the punt had lain idly in mid-stream.
Only for an hour or so after midday had the
party gone on shore, to enjoy a picnic
luncheon spread under the leafy shade.

It was Kate's desire to fish, and the others
were obedient to her whim. Mr. Beaumont
had his sketching materials, and from time to
time washed in some lovely effect of light and
shade, as floating clouds threw their deep
purple shadows. Lord Evered had his book,
but it lay unopened; and he was content

to feast upon the beauty of the scene, and,
with quiet amusement, watch his companions
as they pursued their gentle sport.

All day Rivers had been true to his word.
He had diligently baited the rods with
minnows or worms, and removed the glittering,
writhing fishes from the hooks, leaving
Kate but the easy task of pulling them from
out the water.

"Look at your float, Mrs. Ferrars ; you
have another bite ! " cried Rivers.

True enough. Kate jerked in her line, and
a six-inch gudgeon, olive brown above and
silvery white beneath, was added to the pile.

As Rivers put on fresh bait, he remarked, 

*' I am afraid, Mrs. Ferrars, that your zeal
is waning. This is the third time you have
not noticed that you had a bite."

*' I am afraid it is. Look at that heap of
poor little shining fish," she added, remorsefully.
" Think of their happy lives which we
have ended so prematurely. I never used to
think of anything but the fun of catching
them, but now I am coming to the conclusion
that I do not like fishing any more  I feel
like a murderess."

VOL. III. 8

"" You a murderess ! " and Rivers laughed,
softly. " Let me paint you as Lady Macbeth
or Jael, and see how well you would suit the
character'*

* I am glad that my cruelty has not indelibly
marked my face. And now let me
make reparation by sparing the rest of our
destined prey. Unless you want to fish any
longer, let us put by the rods."

** Certainly," said Rivers; *' it is only your
energy that has sustained me all day. Left
to myself, I believe that the lawn at Maple
Place and a fragrant weed would have satisfied
my wants. So if you have had enough, I
have too."

But you don't regret coming upon the
river ? "

** On the contrary, I am grateful that I was
not allowed to yield to my indolence. The
scene of to-day is one which, to me at least,
will ever remain both fresh and green."

He began to take in the lines ; and Kate,
leaning over the side of the punt, dabbled her
hand in the water.

I love the river," she said ; ' it is different
to a pond or a lake  it seems to have a life

and voice. How strange to think from what
quiet nooks its water comes ; and how it will
flow on and on, until it leaves the country
and meets the vast city, and then will carry
on its bosom great ships away to sea. What
varying people must have floated on its
waters ! Happy people and sad people,
idlers and toilers, and many leaving their
old homes for ever."

** If you begin to moralize on the river,"
said Lord Evered, " there is yet another view
to take. Think how it has flowed on for
hundreds of years in all material points with
much the same aspect as it bears now. Recall
those we read of in history who, century
after century, were in their generation familiar
forms by this old river  about many of
whom we have a mental picture  distinct after
its kind as is our knowledge of living friends.
Remember Hardwicke a few miles down, and
people it once more with the fugitive court of
the unfortunate Charles. Then that house of
mine dates from Queen Elizabeth. My mother's
family  the Eliot  were loyalists to the backbone.
No doubt during the king's sojourn at
Hardwicke many would come and go upon

the river whose names and characters we
know."

'eyes," said Kate, "- I, too, have been thinking
of the many generations who have been
here before. Doubtless they loved the river,
and enjoyed it as much as we do ; and the
river remains but they are forgotten. How
strange to think that this will still go on ! 
that the day will come when the river still
flows but we are no more remembered ! "

*' Stop ! stop, Mrs. Ferrars ; go as far back
as you please," cried Rivers ; " but not so far
into futurity. Let us believe that the happy
present will continue for a long, long while."

"Fie! egotist that you are!" said Lord
Evered. " Kate is right. What is the use
of looking back into the past if it teaches no
lesson of our own insignificance ? No study
in the world should make a man larger-minded
than that of history."

*' Then," said Rivers, " defend me from that
same study. It is pleasant to consider oneself
a person of some importance  one who will
leave a gap behind, rather than as an atom
whose mere existence is brief, and whose loss
is inappreciable."



** Take care, Rivers," said Mr. Beaumont,
who had laid aside his sketching block.
'don't incite Evered to mount his favourite
hobby. He will forget all else ; and I, for one,
am beginning to remember that it must be
nearly dinner-time. Look how low the sun is
sinking; and, since Kate is tired of fishing,
had we not better return to the practical, and
think of going home to dinner ? "

By all means," returned Lord Evered, ' I
was about to make the same suggestion."

Lord Evered and Rivers took the oars, while
Kate and Mr. Beaumont sat at the end of the
punt. They moved slowly up stream, and ere
reaching the turn in the river Kate saw a
boat coming down, and swiftly. Dreamily she
watched it drawing near, and admired the
long and powerful sweep of the oars as they
cut the water.

There were two oarsmen, both in white
flannels and straw hats ; and a boy, who held
the tiller ropes, was similarly attired. As it
chanced, both boats were in mid-stream ; and,
when but a few lengths divided them, the
rowers shipped their oars, and paused to rest.
They were badly matched ; one was a broad-shouldered,

powerful man, the other a slight
stripling. Kate's eyes were intently fixed
upon the former, as more slowly now the distance
between them lessened.

* I wonder who they are?" remarked Mr.
Beaumont, carelessly.

When the boats had come abreast, the man
turned his head and looked full at the punt ;
then a smile brightened his sunburnt features,
and he raised his hat.

'why, Kate, 'tis North!" exclaimed Mr.
Beaumont.

But she knew that before.

Lord Evered and Rivers backed their oars,
and in another moment the boats were
touching.

'* Well met ! " called out Lord Evered.
*' Where are you bound, North ? Whence
do you hail ? "

'' To Sanguine," was the reply. ** These
last two days we have been rowing down the
river from Oxford."

"To the inn at Sanguine! Nonsense,
man ; you must turn round and come home
with us. You have just passed my house on
the right bank."

' I have these youngsters with me," said
Roger, hesitatingly, " and dress clothes are
not included in our kit."

'* A fig for dress clothes ! Mrs. Ferrars is
the only lady of our party, and I undertake
to say that she will excuse the omission. Tomorrow
is Sunday ; you must rest from your
voyage, and I think we can entertain you as
well as they can at the inn."

Roger's companions  boy-like and shy 
gave deprecating glances. But there was
another glance that he heeded more.

*' Your offer is too good to be refused. Lord
Evered. As we passed that charming old
house the boys were wishing they could explore
it."

So the boat was turned up stream, and
another quarter of an hour brought them
alongside the rustic boat-house at the foot
of the garden.

The sun just dipped as the last one stepped
on shore ; and possibly it was the dipping sun
which gave Kate's face its rosy glow as Roger
held her hand.

Dinner was over, and on a rustic bench,
which stood upon the gravel terrace, sat Kate

and the two boys. On leaving the diningroom
she had asked them to accompany her 
an invitation willingly accepted. She had a
pleasant way with boys, and there were few
with whom she was not a favourite. Her
present companions formed no exception,
and already were at their ease  talking
and laughing about their adventures on the
river.

The elder of the boys was Ralph Maxwell.
He was now seventeen ; and, though slight,
gave promise of fair height and a manly
figure. His unusually good looks might have
been condemned as too feminine, had not plenty
of character and decision marked his face.
Curly hair of a golden hue, that Madam Rachel
might vainly have tried to imitate ; a complexion
more brilliant than any her cosmetics
could have produced, with features delicate
and classical, promised to make Ralph Maxwell
a veritable lady-killer in days to come.
At present he had no thought of such nonsense,
as he would have termed it.

Two or three years younger, the other
possessed no superfluous good looks. An
open-faced, honest school-boy was Charlie

North, with a warm heart and hot temper 
which was ever ready, on provocation, to
gleam fiercely from his dark eyes.

Though knowing both boys by name, Kate
had not seen either of them before. Charlie's
visits to the Hall had not commenced until
long after she had left Belton.

*' Wasn't it awfully jolly of Roger to bring
us on this trip ? " said Charlie.

*' Yes, but it has always been his' way to be
kind, ever since I can remember," replied Kate
warmly.

'Ah! you used to live at Belton, and
knew him a long while ago. He promised
Maxwell and myself last summer that we
should see Oxford, and have a row down the
river. He came to Wellington for speech-day,
and took us both from there. It is Maxwell's
last summer term. He'll be going up for
his exam, soon."

What are you going to try for? " asked
Kate of her other companion.

'* The Engineers," said Ralph.

** I'm going into the army too," said Charlie,
*but you won't catch me trying for the
Artillery or Engineers. I want to go into a

cavalry regiment, but Roger does not seem
to see it."

** Is Belton Hall your home now?" asked
Kate.

*' Yes, since my mother died last year,"
replied the boy, growing somewhat graver.
** I used to go there very often before, but now
I am there the whole time. If Roger goes to
Scotland I am to go with him."

*' You have sisters  where do they live ? "

*' The eldest is married, and the other lives
with her. Thank goodness I'm a boy, so that
I could go to Roger." The boy's face fell ;
it was a sore subject. He did not consider his
sisters husband altogether good style, and had
the greatest repugnance to go to his house.

** I am so glad that you like Belton ! " said
Kate.

I should think I did. Only it would be
better if there were some boys of my age

at the Hall, and if " he coloured and

paused, for he was about to make a remark
not altogether complimentary to his aunt.

An old Newfoundland dog came strolling
along in stately fashion, and stood still, sniffing
and wagging his tail at the strangers.

** He's like old Rover who used to be at the
Hall," said Charlie. Then putting two and
two together he added, " Was not Rover your
dog once, Mrs. Ferrars ? "

*eyes  poor dear old Rover!" and Kate
had to keep back something like a tear as she
thought of her old favourite.

*' Roger was so fond of that dog, I never
saw anything like it," continued Charlie. *' I
was there when Rover died, and he would not
let any one dig the grave but himself How
old Rover used to hate Aunt Sophia ! " and
Charlie laughed at the remembrance.

Men's voices and footsteps on the gravel
sounded in the evening air. Then, round the
house corner, figures became visible in the
summer twilight.

Kate bent over the dog caressingly; no need
for her to look up in order to know who it was
that stood by her side.

** Making friends with the dog ? You have
not forgotten your old liking, I see''

No, why should I ? " she answered ; " we
were talking of dear old Rover only now."

** I hear you are coming to Belton at last,"
said Roger, in a lower tone.

"Yes  the end of next week;" and Kate
still bent over the dog.

** Charlie and I shall be back by then."

*' Are you going to Scotland for the
1 eth? " she asked.

*' I don't quite know; I have only made a
half promise."

*come," said Lord Evered, " there is coffee
in the drawing-room. It is nearly ten o'clock,
and you must give us some music, Kate,
before we go to smoke."

"Mrs. Ferrars owes us a song," said Rivers;
*' she would not sing a note when we were
out upon the river."

* There was music enough," retorted Kate,
*' without my poor voice. I should have been
a raven among nightingales."

All went indoors but the boys, who loitered
behind.

*' What a chatter-box you are, North! " said
Ralph, with a tone of contempt in his voice ;
** how could you talk like that to a lady you
never saw before in your life."

'what's the harm? " said Charlie, "and she
isn't exactly a stranger either. She was the
rector's daughter at Belton, and Roger has

known her always  he told me so. She's jolly
too. I wish she would come and stay at the
Hall, instead of some of Aunt Sophia's dried-up
old fogies."

When Kate went to the piano, Rivers stood
by her side and turned over the music ; and
she was conscious of a feeling of disappointment,
which made it a difficult task to sing
her best.

CHE SARA, SARA.

The next day was Sunday. In the forenoon
the party at Maple House went to church,
and pleasant was the drive through the
picturesque Berkshire lanes, overarched by
venerable oaks and elms, with here and there
peeps of waving cornfields, already golden,
and waiting the reaper's sickle.

The day was as bright, and perhaps hotter,
than the one before. They had agreed to
dine at five o'clock, that the hours before and
after sunset might be spent upon the river.

In the afternoon they amused themselves by
exploring the old house. It contained not a
few objects of interest, and more than one
secret chamber, behind the panelling, suggested
days of mystery and romance.

During the circuit of the house Mr. Beaumont

devoted himself to the boys, and they
found in him a charming companion. His
memory was richly stored with historic anecdotes,
and upon these he drew for their
entertainment. This led to the mention by
Lord Evered of some old manuscripts carefully
preserved in great oaken chests ; and by-and-bye
he took Mr. Beaumont to the library to
examine them. The others found their way
to a shady spot on the lawn, under a wide-spreading
maple, and in sight of the shining
river.

A garden seat stood there, and by Lord
Evered' s orders it had been covered with soft
skins, while others were laid on the grass.
The seat was appropriated to Kate ; and the
artist, Roger, and the two boys reclined on
the rugs. The air was hot enough for shade
and repose to be extremely grateful. To step
from the deep cover of the trees into the
brilliant sunshine was to change an atmosphere
of delicious warmth for one of burning
heat. Three out of the five were well contented
to be still. Not so the boys. After a
while, tiring of inaction, they strolled to the
spot where their boat lay moored.

' I wonder," said Rivers, gazing through
half-closed eyes at the active figures who
sprang into the boat,  " I wonder how long
ago it is since I was so horribly and unnecessarily
energetic."

*' Not very long, I daresay' said Kate.
< Why do you always pretend to be so lazy,
Mr. Rivers ? when we all know that you are
not."

*' I don't pretend ; it would be too much
trouble."

"This is a day when anyone may be excused
for being lazy," said Roger, who lay
watching the myriads of insect life in the
green canopy overhead.

At this moment Charlie's clear voice rang
through the air.

Come here, Roger, we want you."

Roger sat up, and looked towards the boat.

Lazy young dog ! " said Rivers. " You
don't mean to go to him, do you ? I'd see
him farther first. Let him come to you."

Another shout from Charlie, and Roger
stood up reluctantly.

I suppose I had better go," he said.
Perhaps they have found something wrong

with the boat, and we must be off early tomorrow
morning."

He walked away, as it seemed, with a more
languid step than usual.

Kate and Rivers were left alone, and
watched Roger as he joined the boys ; and
then they saw the three bending over the boat
in earnest consultation.

At last Rivers broke the silence.

*what a lucky fellow that is! Born into
the world with all that a reasonable man can
desire  position, wealth, leisure, and means
to come and go as he pleases  to do what he
will."

*' If you suppose that he takes advantage
of that to lead a pleasure-seeking life, you are
mistaken. I know no one who spends less
time or money on himself."

Kate spoke almost indignantly; and then,
as she paused, the colour mounted to her
cheek.

Rivers regarded her from under his drooping
eyelids.

*' You must pardon a man for speaking a
little bitterly," he said, '' when he sees a life
that contrasts so sharply with his own. sup-vol.

III. 9

pose," he continued, dreamily, *' that North
and I are about the same age ; and the very
years which he spent at Harrow and Oxford
enjoying all the fresh delights of youth,
untrammelled by care  made almost an old
man of me. Nothing creates more envy in
my breast than the open-hearted kindliness of
a man like North. He, lucky fellow ! has
only seen the sunny side of man,  he knows
nothing of his cold looks and harshness when
one goes to him as a suppliant for bread and
work."

My uncle told me that you have known
hard times," Kate said, kindly.

*' Ay, but he little knows how hard," replied
Rivers, with brow contracting at the remembrance.
*' The worst was over  my feet were
already on the ladder  when he held out
a generous helping hand. The iron had
entered into my soul ere then. My parents
were of gentle birth, but married imprudently,
and sank in the world lower and lower. My
father held a poor clerkship in the post-office,
and tried to eke out a livelihood with his pen,
but he broke down in the struggle. I won't
harrow your kind heart by telling of my

earliest reminiscences ; but you can draw the
picture If you have ever visited In the homes
of the London poor  we had nothing to
depend upon save my mother's earnings."

*' How very, very sad!" exclaimed Kate,
her keenest sympathies aroused. " I never
knew that before."

*' Most likely not," said Rivers, with a short
laugh. ' It is not a thing I often speak of."

Kate turned towards him with a bright and
winning smile.

* It is a thing to be proud of, Mr. Rivers,
when you contrast the present with the past.
Were your mother alive, think how she would
glory in your success ! "

** Ah ! there lies the bitterness. She died,
worn out by her life-long struggle, just as I
was beginning to make headway. My younger
brother and sister had died before. They
were not made of my tough fibre, and the
hard life killed them."

He paused ; and there was a mournful
cadence in his voice as he continued, 

Now that success and comparative wealth
have come, they often seem worthless  solitary
and kinless as I am ! "

*nay, you have many friends, Mr. Rivers,
who rejoice in your success; and," added
Kate, more shyly, *you will marry some day."

'' I have dreamt of such a thing," said
Rivers, slowly, " but I begin to think it was a
fool's dream, and will never be realized. No !
art must be my wife. She is an exacting
mistress, and often flourishes best where she
has no rival. But the world of art is not
altogether a satisfying one. We picture that
the giants of past times  Michael Angelo,
Raphael, Leonardo da Vinci  lived in a pure
ethereal atmosphere, with which no petty
meanness were mingled. The great vied with
each other to do them honour  they had no
need to truckle. Their sole aim was to impress
their art with an inspiration that almost seems
divine. With us pygmies, how different! How
many of us paint for the pot ! How each
jostles against each in the struggle for fame !
Success has brought me as many enemies as
friends. It sickens one of the whole thing
sometimes."

** But you will not yield to that feeling," said
Kate, eagerly. "You love your art. Let
your aim be its elevation."

Rivers looked into her face. He would
have spoken again, but already Roger was
half across the lawn ; and a moment later
Lord Evered and Mr. Beaumont came from
the house and joined them.

The sun was throwing its slanting rays on
the further bank when Lord Evered and his
friends found their way to the large four oared
boat that had been drawn from the boat-house.
Kate stood on the steps contemplating rather
a long jump, for the river was low.

''Do not jump!" called out Lord Evered,
who was already in the boat  "you may slip.
Let North here lift you down; he's strong
enough."

May I ? " said Roger, looking up. And
then, without giving time for refusal, he placed
his hands on her waist and lifted her into the
boat. He only waited a moment to see that
she had a steady footing before turning away,
so that she could not see his face.

There were cushions in the stern, and there
Mr. Beaumont and Kate found places, while
Charlie sat in the bow. The others took the
oars.

They rowed down stream, for in that direction

the scenery was most attractive. But the
boat moved through the water lazily. It was
after dinner, the air was warm ; and, as Lord
Evered remarked, they were not rowing fora
cup.

Mr. Beaumont steered ; and Kate, as she
liked to do, had her hand in the water  hardly
cold to the touch after this hot, sunny day.

Suddenly she uttered a low cry.

** What is the matter ? " asked her uncle.

"" Do not say anything," she answered, ina
low tone, and with her face flushing, *' but
I have lost my wedding-ring. I know it is
quite impossible to recover it, so I would
rather not make a fuss. By accident no other
ring was on that finger, and it was rather
large."

'never mind," said Mr. Beaumont. "I
will get you another as soon as we reach
town."

Then, drying her hand, Kate drew on her
glove, hoping that none but her uncle had
noticed the occurrence. But she could not
forget it. She was not altogether free from
a little vein of superstition ; and the question
would come, '' What did this portend ? " 

though she tried almost angrily to banish
the rising thought.

Still it made her silent and abstracted ; and
she did not take her usual share in the
desultory talk that was being carried on.

'* Tired by the heat ? " inquired Lord Evered,
who rowed stroke.

'' N  no," answered Kate ; " but the motion
makes one dreamy, I suppose."

She had looked up to answer him, and her
eyes wandered farther and rested upon Roger.

Then she touched Mr. Beaumont's arm, and
spoke in a voice of some alarm.

*' Look at Roger, uncle. I am sure he is
ill."

Mr. Beaumont's glance followed hers. The
oar in Roger's hand was moving unsteadily ;
a strange pallid look had come across his
brown-burnt face.

Almost before Mr. Beaumont could speak.
Lord Evered, seeing something was amiss,
turned round, and all rested on their oars.

*' Hollo, North ! what's the matter ? "

'* I feel a little giddy, that's all," replied
Roger, with an effort. " I suppose that I have
been rowing too much in the hot sun."

He rested his head on his hand, and Rivers
gave him some water. After a few moments
his colour returned. But the others would
not allow him to row any longer, and there
was a general re-arrangement of places.
Charlie took an oar, Mr. Beaumont went to
his place, and Roger was ordered to make
himself comfortable on the cushions.

And so for the remainder of those pleasant
evening hours he sat by Kate. And she was
well content. And her spirits, ever buoyant,
rose to something of their childlike gaiety.
More than once Roger found himself wondering
if her marriage and his pain were not parts
of an uneasy dream, from which he had
awakened to find her still the sunny Kate
of old.

For these high spirits Kate was destined to
pay the penalty ere she slept that night.
Long after retiring to her room she was
kneeling by the open window, and gazing out
upon the starry night, with the murmur of
the river falling on unheeding ears.

And the face upon which the gentle starlight
shone was sad and wistful.

She had blown out the lights ; and for

long while had been kneeling there, motionless,
save that the soft breeze, from time to time,
stirred her fair, wavy hair.

And why did her face wear that wistful
look ? What were the reflections which had
chased away the sunny smile ?

In these last two days she had clearly come
to know what previously she had but suspected.
The heart that she had once believed to be
dead had made itself felt with a power and
force before undreamt of. She could no
longer close her ears to the tale it told. The
love that Roger had pleaded for in vain had
come ; but, as it seemed to her, too late.

Since she returned to her uncle's house, they
had met occasionally, perhaps some dozen
times in all. She had been many months out
of England, and the Ramsayss, returning from
South America to settle in Scotland, had
claimed her for long visits. This had materially
shortened the time which she had spent
in London, and it was there only that they
had met. Whenever Roger came to town, he
never failed to call.

But there always seemed more or less of
formality in his visits ; and now for the first

time were they thrown together in scenes which
vividly recalled the old bright days of childhood.


Kate knew how loudly her heart had beaten
at this chance meeting ; how vague hopes had
risen that it might be the prelude to a fresh
declaration of Roger's love. But looking back
upon the past two days, it seemed that the
associations, which had touched her heart's
core, 'had left .unshaken the quiet friendliness
of his manner. Never had she seen less sign
of the love which had once been unveiled.
Rather, she thought, he had held aloof, and
allowed others to claim the most of her attention.
There was indeed the moment when he
had lifted her into the boat, but he had done
so at the instigation of another, and quietly
and naturally, as if she were in truth his
sister.

*' Ah ! " thought Kate, " were he to tell me
of his love again, how different would be my
answer ! But he never will. He has obeyed
my request. He loves me still, I know, but it
is with the affection of a brother. I can see it
as plainly as he could tell me. He knew that
marriage with me would be displeasing to his

mother ; he believed that only his own happiness
was at stake, and in his unselfish way he
put all thought of self aside. No ! he will
never speak to me of love ; and I  I must
imitate his self-control. Why was I so blind
as not to see that he loved me in those dear
old days ? If I had, would his mother, could
any one, have made me believe him capable
of change ? "

Unconsciously her hand grasped the. gold
locket which she wore suspended from her
neck, and with the touch came the thought of
her dead baby. Passionately she pressed it to
her lips, and a look of self-reproach crossed
her pale face.

*'No! my little darling," she said, 'you
shall not be forgotten. Your mother will never
forget you, whatever happens ! "

And with the thought of her child rose up
the memory of her child's father  that life so
sadly ruined  so prematurely closed. Tender
and gentle thoughts filled Kate's breast. She
knew now that her love for him had been buta
calm and tranquil affection  an affection
that in genial sunshine might have ripened
into something deeper, but as it was, had been

too soon exposed to withering blasts. With
a pang she thought, " Had my love for poor
Sydney been more like this love, might not its
influence have availed to save him ? ''

Then she bowed her head upon her arms,
and by degrees more resigned feelings stole
over her.

*' Maybe it is best as it is. The path was
ordered for me. The sorrow and the suffering
were what I needed. Had I become Roger's
wife, my life would have been all sunshine.
I should have looked or wished for nothing
beyond. And there is sunshine yet, if T do
not refuse to see it. On my return I resolved
to be as a loving daughter to uncle ; and when
he wants me no more, there will be some other
place for me to fill. I will not permit myself
to be unhappy. This love is like a sharp pain
now, but it will not be so always. I must be
patient. It is nothing to what Roger must
have suffered, and he has lived it down, and
so must I."

She raised her eyes, and the stars seemed
kindly sympathizing.

*' I don't believe Roger will ever marry anyone
else," she thought. '' He is not a man

to love twice in a lifetime. When he has once
made up his mind he does not change. Is it
wrong, I wonder, to be glad when I think of
that ? Should I not rather be sorry that his
love for me has robbed him of life's great
happiness ? No, I cannot be sorry, I am glad,
glad and proud to know that he loved me
once, and me alone! "

A footstep sounded on the gravel beneath
the window, and Kate drew quickly back.
Her heart beat fast.

The scent of a cigar rose on the night air,
and she knew it was not Roger. Perhaps it
was Mr. Rivers, and she wondered for a
moment what made him pace the gardens at
so late an hour.

But her reverie was broken. When the
footsteps passed out of hearing, she drew down
the blind, and presently went to rest. Sleep
came at last, and with sleep came pleasant
dreams, for she was on the river with Roger,
and a lark was singing ; and it sang loud and
clear  .

I love my love, and my love loves me ! "

Kate's surmise was correct. It was Rivers'

footstep that she had heard. He, too, found
sleep a coy visitant, which refused to come
even long after he had laid his head upon
the pillow.

Dawn was breaking before he fell into an
uneasy slumber, ere long to be awakened by
the sunlight streaming through the window.
He rose and looked out upon the bright
summer morn. Flowers, lawn, and trees
were bathed in dewy freshness ; the waters of
the river were dancing as in delight; the birds
were singing with a light gaiety that seemed
to mock his troubled humour.

Then he turned, and in a few minutes stood
once more by the window, carrying in his
hand a small portrait, done in oils. Long and
earnestly he gazed upon the features.

It was a woman's profile, with fair, wavy
hair, and grey eyes, earnest yet tender. The
chin was slightly raised, the eyes were gazing
upward, from every line there breathed a
gentle spirit, childlike in its purity.

The dream was sweet while it lasted," he
said, with bitterness, " but it is over now.
No fault of hers that I was fool enough to
cherish hope ! No word or look ever gave



me cause to think that I was reg-added with any
warmer feeling than one of friendship. I have
seen a light in those eyes that I would fain
have raised, but it was not for me. The poor
consolation remains that I have been spared
from exposing my love to be rejected  kindly
and gently no doubt, but still rejected ; and
Francis Rivers shall be believed, as heretofore,
steel-proof to woman's charms."

He took a penknife, and was about to cut
the canvas, when a softer thought arose, and
the destroying hand was stayed.

*' I cannot  it is the product of too many
sweet and dreamy hours. Rather shall it lie
by until the day comes when I can look upon
it once again with calmness. Perhaps, when
I have grown old and cynical, it may at least
remind me that there are such women in the
world."

AN OLD HOME A NEW TROUBLE.

The party at Maple House dispersed on
Monday, and Mr. Beaumont and Kate returned
home, to remain there but a few days.

On Wednesday evening Mr. Beaumont bid
his niece good-bye as well as good-night, for
next morning he intended to make an early
start to cross the Channel. After leaving her
he retired to the library, and was busy at his
desk, looking over papers, when he heard a
light tap at the door.

'come in," he said, not lifting his head;
for he thought that the intruder was his
servant.

But it was not Benson. The figure that
glided noiselessly to his side was tall, and
slender, and white robed. It sat down on the
elbow of his chair, and threw a rounded arm

about his neck, and rested a soft cheek against
his.

*' Why, Kate, my child ! I thought that I
had said good-bye and good-night to you upstairs."


Yes, uncle," she said ; " but somehow I
could not let you go without seeing you again."
She paused and kissed him, and there was a
little tremor in her voice when she continued,
Should you miss me very much, dear uncle,
if I were not here ? "

Yes, child, yes  of course I should."

Then Mr. Beaumont looked at her. *you
are not thinking of leaving me, are you ? " he
asked.

*'0h, no, uncle! indeed I am not. I shall
never leave you of my own will. Only I wanted
to feel quite sure that you really liked to have
me with you."

Mr. Beaumont's eyes were moist. He put
his arm round her waist and drew her
closer.

** My dear child, I do not like to think of the
possibility of your leaving me again. You are
very dear to me. ft has done me more good
than I can tell to have you here  you have

VOL. III. 10

made my heart a little softer than I thought
it ever could be."

He kissed her, and then added in a lighter
tone, *' There, you exacting little woman, are
you satisfied? "

** Yes," said Kate, with a gentle sigh ; and
for another moment she rested her cheek
against his.

** You won't forget to write once a week,"
she said, at last.

'' No, I will remember."

' Then once more good-night and good-bye,,
dear uncle."

*' Good-bye, my child  Heaven bless you ! "
She kissed him again, and quietly left the
room.

The next afternoon, Kate was in the train,
rapidly approaching the station nearest to
Belton. It was hot and dusty. Her book
and papers were covered with a gritty powder.
The choice lay between the gritty powder or a
suffocating atmosphere. But Kate's heart was
full, and little she heeded any outward circumstance.


She was on her way to fulfil a long-promised
and oft-postponed visit to the Stephens. She

had not been to Belton since her father's death
five years ago. This had arisen from accidental
causes, as such a visit had often been
contemplated, and at last she had come to
reg-ard the prospect of revisiting her old home
with almost as much shrinking as pleasure.

But for some months past an intense eagerness
had possessed her to meet Roger once
more in the dear familiar scenes. And then
again her mood had experienced another
change. Their meeting on the Thames had
convinced her that he had relinquished all
other claims than those of brotherhood, and
she mistrusted her power of self-control amid
surroundings which must stir her heart most
deeply.

The journey came to an end at last, and
the train stopped at the familiar station. Kate's
hands trembled as she helped Keziah to collect
their various belongings.

** Hollo ! Kate, are you there ? " called out
a cheery voice ; and Major Stephens' beaming
face appeared at the carnage door.

He helped her to the platform  explaining
as he did so that Mrs. Stephens had a headache,
or else she, too, would have come.

*' She fidgeted herself into it," said the
Major, confidentially. ' Never saw such a
woman in my life; she's been in no end of a
fuss about your visit. I knew how it would be
all along."

Kate felt almost in a dream, until she found
herself by the Major's side on the box-seat of
the waggonette, with servants and luggage
packed behind.

The Major rattled on, without waiting for
many answers. Perhaps it was as well that
he did not need them, for Kate's thoughts
were very busy ; her eyes were eagerly seeking
each familiar object along the well-known road.
Every turn aroused fresh memories of the
past.

As they drew near Belton the Major noticed
her abstraction. " Poor child ! no wonder she
feels coming back for the first time," he
thought ; and then contented himself with
talking to his horses.

The eager face grew a shade whiter as house
after house appeared in view, and was quickly
passed. Now and again well-known figures and
faces stopped to touch a cap or drop a curtsey
some of whom met her gaze with a gleam of

recognition, and then the salute or curtsey
was repeated with redoubled emphasis. How
often in dreams, sleeping and waking, had
the scene been conjured up 1 Could it really
be five years since she had been there ? How
little changed all seemed !

At the entrance to the village a new row of
ugly red-brick cottages struck her eye. Then
yes, that was Mrs. North's pony-carriage
standing at a cottage gate, just as she had
seen it times out of mind. The old pony was
the same ; the groom standing at its head 
dried up and leathery  was as she remembered
him. He touched his hat solemnly as the
carriage swept past ; but when he saw who
sat on the box, all his good training could not
suppress a welcoming smile of recognition.

And soon they came to the rectory and
church ; and Kate's heart beat faster, though
her eyes vvere too dim to see clearly. She
only knew that once again she was in the
presence of her beloved old home.

' Here we are!" said the Major, as he
pulled up the horses.

In spite of headache Mrs. Stephens stood at
the door. Five years had made no perceptible

change in her cheery aspect. She continued
to wear as well as even In another moment
Kate was folded in her arms, and the good
little woman chattered so fast that she never
noticed she had the talk all to herself.

The next morning Kate rose early. The
servants had not been long astir when she
was on the road leading to the church.

A still, awed feeling stole over her when
she reached the churchyard gate, and crossed
the turf, glittering and wet with summer dew.
How many, many times had her feet trod that
path ! But a new object met her eyes. It was
a beautiful white marble cross, erected by
Mary and herself to the memory of their
father. Kate saw it now for the first time.
A moment more, and she stood by the three
graves  where lay their father, Mary's mother,
and her own.

Then, heedless of the dewy grass, she sank
down ; and, leaning against the cross, her
tears flowed fast.

After a while she noticed how carefully the
graves were kept. All three were bright with
flowers, and showed the marks of loving hands
as plainly as when she had tended them herself.

She wondered who had performed a duty
which she would have found so sweet. And
as her eyes wandered, resting first on one and
then on another, still she continued kneeling,
until the influence of the hallowed spot crept
into her heart, soothing its vain longings.

Almost an hour had fled before she rose,
carrying with her a few flowers in her hand.
She walked round the church, and noted the
changes which had been made. Entering the
porch, she tried the door, but it was locked,
and she returned into the sunshine with the
intention of going homewards.

An aged figure, supported by a stick, was
tottering along the churchyard path. Though
far more bent and decrepit than of yore, Kate
saw at once that it was the old sexton, and
going up to him she took his hand.

*' How are you, Barnes ? " she said; ** I am
glad to see you still here."

He gazed at her in some amazement. His
slow and deadened brain seemed struggling
for a gleam of light.

Don't you know me, Barnes ? " she said, a
little sadly. '* Don't you remember Miss
Kate''

*why, to be sure! if it bent Miss Kate.
Bless you ! remember you, to be sure I do.
Well, well, now be you really Miss Kate?"
and he peered a little doubtfully into her face.

Yes, I am really. Am I so much changed,
Barnes? "

'No, no," he said, passing his rough handover
his eyes. " I hear it in your voice, and I
see now it is Miss Kate. Ay ! but you look a
real grown-up lady, and I have know'd you
ever sin' you were a baby. Mrs. Stephens, she
felled me you were a-coming, and it does my
old heart good to see you again  it does sure."

And the tears gathered in the old man's
eyes.

*' You've been to look at the graves, I
reckon," he said, presently. ' I know' cl you
would as soon as ever you come. I told my
old missus so, but she can't hear me now; "
and he shook his head sorrowfully.

** Who takes care of the flowers, Barnes ? "

** Why, the young Squire, to be sure ! He
sends a gardener from the Hall very often.
And when he's at home, he's always at them
himself once a week."

A glad light came into Kate's eyes. She

looked towards the graves. " How good of
him  how like him ! " she murmured.

** Won't you go inside the church, Miss
Kate? 'Tis mighty fine now. I've got the
keys along with me."

*' Thank you, Barnes, not now. I must
return to breakfast. I will look in and see
your wife some time to-day."

The old man doffed his cap and leant on
his stick, watching as she walked away.

'* Eh dear ! eh dear ! it's a world full o'
trouble. To think now that old Barnes should
have lived to see that young thing a wider;
and lost her child too, as they tell me. The
Lord's ways is wonderful and past finding out;
but please Him it won't be long now before old
Barnes will understand them a sight better."

So saying, he shook his grey head once
more, and moved on with infirm steps.

To Kate the day proved one of mingled pain
and pleasure. It was mostly spent in visiting
the old home, and many of her humbler
friends. Mr. and Mrs. Hill happened to be
away, and this gave her an opportunity for
wandering alone through the old garden.
More than once her heart smote her, for she

found herself ever recalling scenes in which, not
her father, but Roger, was the principal actor.

In the afternoon Mrs. Stephens accompanied
her ; and as they went from one cottage to
another, Kate was touched by many a proof
of simple and warm affection.

It was nearly five o'clock when they reached
the gates of the Field House. Mrs. Stephens
ordered chairs and tea to be brought under
the shade of the trees.

It is quite like old times to have you here,"
said she, filling the dainty china cups.

eyes," answered Kate. Then she added,
*' You must not mind, dear Mrs. Stephens, if it
makes me a little sad sometimes. Everything
is brought back so vividly by the sight of the
dear old place."

*Yes, yes, of course," said Mrs. Stephens,
quickly. ' You ought to have come here long
ago, and got over the first painful memories.
I have often felt very angry with you for not
coming."

Kate laid her head against her old friend's
shoulder.

You must not be angry with me. I would
have come if I could."

*' I am not so sure of that," replied Mrs.
Stephens, determinedly. ** Where there's a
will there's a way."

'* I am here now, at all events," said Kate,
playfully; 'rand don't be cross, or I shall go
away."

Mrs. Stephens laughed.

You are as much of a spoilt child as ever,"
she said.

No," replied Kate, a little mournfully.
*' I am fast growing into a grave old woman.
Surely you have heard remarks enough today
on my altered and aged appearance. I
mean to study the glass when I go indoors,
and see how old I really look."

*' Nonsense, child! you are only three-and-twenty.
There is time enough before you
need think of growing old."

There was a pause, broken by Mrs.
Stephens, who said somewhat abruptly, 

I expected Roger would have come here
to-day."

*' Has he returned ? " asked Kate.

"How did you know he was away?"
demanded Mrs. Stephens, sharply, and turning
to look at her.

Kate knew that her cheeks had flushed.

* I had not told you  we met him by
accident on the Thames, and he and the boys
spent two nights at Lord Evered's."

' Indeed ! " remarked Mrs. Stephens, with
keen interest. " And did he tell you the day
of his intended return ? "

*' He said he would be at home by the end
of this week."

*then he will certainly return to-day, and
we shall see him tomorrow. I wonder when
Mrs. North will call upon you, Kate ? I let her
know the exact day on which you were coming,
so there can be no mistake as to that. You
cannot very well go to the Hall until she has
been here."

Is Mrs. North changed at all ? You
know I have never seen her since I left
Belton."

Not one bit ! Things are just the same as
you always remember. It would do her a
world of good to be contradicted sometimes.
There has only been one point on which she
could not get her own way  Roger could not
be made to marry his cousin. I suppose you
heard all those reports, Kate ? And," concluded

Mrs. Stephens, with her sharp eyes
fixed on her companion, " did you believe
them ? '

Kate bent her head so that her face was
partly shaded by her wide-brimmed hat.

*' Yes, I did once," she said.

** And how did you find out that they were
not true ? " inquired Mrs. Stephens, pointblank.


' I  oh! Roger told me," said Kate, with
growing confusion.

** Oh ! Roger told you, did he? When was
that?"

' A long time ago  when I first returned."

*' And," thought Mrs. Stephens, " I am much
mistaken unless he told you something else
too, young lady." She was silent for a
minute, and her active brain was very busy.
She had never abandoned the desire of bringing
Kate and Roger together; and with her
quick impetuous nature she thought Roger buta
dilatory lover not to have settled matters
long ago. Since Kate's return to England
she had always suspected that something had
passed between them, and now Kate's manner
made her feel certain of the fact. She would

much have liked to ask a few more questions,
and would probably have done so had not Fate
Interfered.

' There Is the Major," said Kate. *' He
has gone Into the house without seeing us.
I will go and tell him we are here;" and
before Mrs. Stephens had time to speak, her
light, active steps had carried her half way
across the lawn.

When she reached the hall door, the Major
was coming out An unusually grave and
concerned expression rested on his face.

** What Is the matter, Major?" she asked,
with the sudden chill of impending evil.

*' Matter ! " said the Major, fussily; " matter
enough, my dear. Here's North come home
ill with typhoid fever. I always knew what it
would be when he spent half his time poking
about In those Infernal dirty holes at Primrose
Hill!"

Kate's face blanched to a deadly white ; her
voice sounded sharp with pain.

Who told you. Major ?  Is he very 111 ? "

Major Stephens was too much occupied with
the importance of his news to notice her
extreme agitation.

*cuthbert told me. I met him in the
village just now. He was coming from the
Hall. It seems North returned last night.
He was heavy and stupid, but made light of
it, and Mrs. North only took fright this
afternoon, and sent for Cuthbert. They have
telegraphed for Dr. Fleming, and a nurse
from Hammerton."

*' But tell me, does Dr. Cuthbert think him
very ill ? "

** Couldn't get much out of him ; but he
looked grave, and said he expected North
would be delirious before morning."

** You will find Mrs. Stephens on the lawn,"
said Kate, speaking with difficulty. ** I  I
think I must go indoors."

Then Major Stephens noticed what a white
and piteous face it was that turned away. He
walked on, and Mrs. Stephens came to meet
him. Her curiosity had been aroused by a
conversation which had ended by Kate's
disappearance into the house. In a few
minutes the Major. had repeated the bad news
to his wife.

Mrs. Stephens was greatly concerned. She
was one of those women who are born to be a

nurse. Her first thought expressed itself in
words.

** I wish I could nurse him ! If it were not
for Mrs. North I would offer to do so at once ;
but I know she would never allow me to go
near his room. Poor dear fellow ! She will
not know how to nurse him properly  she has
not got it in her ! "

*' Pooh, pooh ! " said the Major ; *' he is sure
to be taken good care of. You think no one
can nurse but yourself.' '

So said the Major to his wife. Did he remember
he had already told Dr. Cuthbert what
a pity it was North couldn't have Mrs. Stephens
to nurse him ? *' She'd pull him through,
doctor, you see if she wouldn't," he had said.

Another thought occurred to Mrs. Stephens.

Did you tell Kate all you have told me ? "

*' Yes, why not?" said the Major, with an
uncomfortable remembrance of Kate's stricken
face.

"How could you be so stupid!" cried
Mrs. Stephens, indignantly. '* Why, she
will be sure to think he is going to die."

** She did seem to take the news very much
to heart," said the Major, with contrition.

*' I must go to her and make the best of it."

But Mrs. Stephens did not go at once. She
waited to pour out tea for the Major, and talk
over every detail he had heard. They arranged
that he should walk up to the Hall after dinner,
see Mrs. North, if possible, and offer any
assistance it was in their power to give.

At last Mrs. Stephens knocked at Kate's
door.

*' It is I," she called. ** Let me come in,
child."

She knocked twice before the door was
opened. Then Kate's white though tearless
face and quivering lips told their own tale.
Filled by torturing anxiety, she made no attempt
to conceal her true feelings.

'tell me, dear Mrs. Stephens!" she cried
imploringly, '* do you think Roger will die ? "

I trust not, my dear," answered her friend,
with sympathetic tears rising to her eyes. "He
is a strong man ; there is every cause for hope."

With her right hand Kate held that of Mrs.
Stephens tightly clasped; the other was pressed
against her heart to still its painful throbs.

*' If I had only the right to go to him  to
nurse him ! " she moaned. " It would be hard

VOL. III. II

to bear then, but it would be better than this.
But no one in the world has less right than I
I who once refused his love ! "

And by degrees, and in broken sentences,
Kate told her old friend much of what had
passed between Roger and herself.

She finished, and there was silence for a
little while. She was sitting on the ground,
her head resting against Mrs. Stephens, whose
hand stroked her hair with caressing touch.

Mrs. Stephens determined to view matters
in the most cheerful light, and with this intent
she spoke at last.

** I believe in the end this illness will prove
the best thing that could happen. You cannot
pretend any more that you do not care for
him."

*' But I told you, he no longer thinks of mein
that way."

'* Nonsense ! He loves you just as much ashe
ever did. Do you suppose I am a blind old
mole ? I only wish I had told you of his love
years ago, that you might be in your proper
place by his side to-day. He will recover, I
know he will ! And then I should like to know
what can separate you two any longer! "

MRS. NORTH RELENTS.

It was a warm August morning in the Black
Country  but there warm weather had its
drawbacks. Dwellers beneath its dusky sky
were reminded of summer but by the heat, that
rendered the limbs languid and the mind
inapt for exertion ; it was summer bereft of
blue sky, clear sunshine, bright foliage, and
gay flowers. The smoke hung as a persistent
veil between the longing eye and the pure
ether far above. The dirt, and din, and
noisome odours seemed to gain intensity from
the heated atmosphere.

But if there were a pleasant spot to be found
at Primrose Hill, it was within the parsonage
walls. The friends of Agatha Leslie marvelled
that her patience did not weary of the constant
fight maintained to preserve her household

gods in pristine freshness. But she was not
one to weary of any labour of love, and to her
such was the task of keeping her little home
both bright and pure.

'* Bernard needs it," she thought. 'when
he comes in sick at heart from sights and
sounds that sadden, let his home, at least, be
bright and cheerful."

And Agatha's labours were not confined to
the parsonage. Not a few other homes at
Primrose Hill had felt her influence,  homes
where dirt, and misery, and sin, had given
place to something more worthy of the name.

This August morning she stood by the open
window  watching for her husband's return.
Breakfast was laid upon the table, but an
urgent call had taken Leslie out early.

At last she perceived him in the distance.
She rang the bell that the servants might have
all in readiness, and hastened to the door to
give him welcome.

Leslie swung the iron gate, and came striding
up the path with his old energy not one iota
lessened.

*' I was in time," he said. 'poor Jarvis knew
me, and I stayed until all was over. But I

am afraid his will not be the last case in that
house, for Jane is sickening.' '

When you have breakfasted I will go and
see what I can do'* said Agatha. " Poor
things ! they will need all the help we can
give. But what a comfort to think that at last
poor Jarvis sent for you of his own accord."

*eyes," replied Leslie, entering the house.
His faith seemed to have come again as the
faith of a little child."

*' There is such a pile of letters," said
Agatha, when Leslie was seated at the table ;
"and one from cousin Sophia, which excites
my curiosity. I never remember her writing
to you before."

*then why did you not open it?" remarked
Leslie. " I expect it is to explain why North
never turned up yesterday. It is strange he
did not write himself."

Yes, he has never failed to let us know
when he could not come. Here is the letter."

Leslie laid down his knife and fork to open
it ; and Agatha, leaning over his shoulder,
read at the same time. An expression of
consternation simultaneously escaped their
lips.

"Belton Hall,

IJuirsday.

** My dear Mr. Leslie,  I have just
remembered that you will be expecting to see
Roger to-day. I have bad news to tell you.
He is ill  dangerously ill, of typhoid fever.
Since last Friday he has been delirious. Forgive
me that I have not written to tell you
sooner. But I can think of nothing, do nothing,
but watch and pray. I know that there are
none who will feel with me more than you and
Agatha. Pray, both of you, that he may be
spared. Pray in your church too  it was in
your parish, among your sick, that he caught
this illness. Alas ! if I am bereaved of this
my last child  my noble unselfish son  I am
indeed bereaved.

Yours,

Sophia North.

*' Pes.  Come and see him if you can, though
I doubt if he will know you. The doctors say
that the symptoms indicate brain as well as
typhoid fever."

"Oh, Bernard! " exclaimed Agatha, 'how
sad to think of dear Roger having caught this

terrible fever. And poor cousin Sophia! Look
how her hand trembled as she wrote."

*' How did he catch It, I wonder?" said
Leslie. " It Is three weeks since he was here,'
and I did not know that he had been to any of
the fever-haunted streets."

* Don't you remember? he came again on
the Tuesday on purpose to see Ned Stonehouse.
He was with him all the afternoon, and
he looked In here on his way to the station."

Ah, yes. And since then Purvis Alley
has proved the very hot-bed of disease."

*' I did not think him looking well that
day," said Agatha, sadly. "He seemed out of
spirits, and was perhaps predisposed to illness."

*' Did you notice that ? I have thought the
same thing lately. He has always been such
an even-tempered, cheery fellow that it was
the more noticeable. I wonder if there was
any reason."

I may be mistaken, Bernard, but I have
fancied one."

*' Indeed! what is It? "

*' You will laugh at me, for It Is only a love-affair.
Perhaps you have never discovered
that for years he has loved Kate Galbraith 

the old rector's daughter. I don't exactly
know how it was that things went wrong, and
she made that unfortunate marriage. But I
am certain that Roger still cares for her. I
know he sees her sometimes when he goes to
London, and * hope deferred maketh the heartsick.'
"

"You astonish me," said Leslie. *' I had
no idea of such a thing. And yet," he added,
musingly, *rit accounts for much that has
puzzled me in North. I have been conscious
of a chastened spirit in the man. He seemed
as one who had fought through some great
conflict, to which I possessed no clue. Surely,
though, the girl cannot be worthy of him ! "
he concluded, vehemently''

Yes, I think she is. I used to know her
very well, and she was always a dear girl.
She was devotedly fond of Roger when a
child, and it is a mystery to me how she came
to marry any one else. But Roger was at
Cannes at the time of her engagement, and
she was very young. Do you know," added
Agatha, hesitatingly, '* it almost seems wrong
to mention it, but I have sometimes fancied
that cousin Sophia interfered to keep them

apart. She never liked Kate, from the time
that Roger made so much of her when she
was quite a little child."

"' Is that so ? It accounts in a measure for
the want of sympathy between that mother
and son."

Poor cousin Sophia ! " said Agatha, compassionately.
' Bernard, you must go to her.
She is naturally reserved, but I am sure that
she will open her heart more to you than to
any one else."

'' I should like to go. Poor North!
Heaven grant that he may pull through ! I
should feel no loss more deeply than his."

Leslie put his arm round his wife, and drew
her to him. " Ah ! Aggie," he said, " I have
often pitied North that he had not such a wife
as you. Sometimes I have wondered why he
let me have you. Now it is explained."

They decided that Leslie should go to
Belton that very day. He would be home intime
for the Friday evening service. They
could not both be spared. There were, alas !
too many sick beds in the parish, and Agatha
must remain behind.

They had but little time for further conversation.

Leslie had much to do before the
hour that his train started, and Agatha's feet
were soon hastening on her errands of mercy.
No child had been born at the parsonage to
claim her loving care. This was the ore
shadow in the happiness of their married life.
Both Agatha and Leslie possessed an ardent
love of children, but the blessing had been
denied them. Possibly they were to find their
children among God's poor.

It was early in the afternoon when Leslie
drove up to the gates of Belton Hall. In
answer to his inquiries the lodge-woman told
him that the master remained much the same,
and directed him to drive to the stable-yard.
A few minutes later he found his way to the
house, and was first met by Martin, the grey-headed
butler.

The old man's anxious face brightened when
he saw Leslie.

** Mistress will be pleased to see you, sir.
I will let her know immediately."

He led the visitor into the morning-room,
and drew up the blinds. All looked dreary
and deserted, as if no one had sat there for
days. A few questions and answers passed

concerning Roger's illness ; and then the
butler left to seek his mistress.

Leslie walked to the window, and stood
looking out. How sad to think that the master
of that fair home, in the heyday of his manhood,
should be stricken down, perhaps to
death. Leslie had watched by more than one
death bed in the past week, but in every case
there had seemed comparatively little to leave,
much to gain. And yet, might it not be so
here ? As this home exceeded in beauty
anything that the dwellers in blackened and
crowded streets could picture, would not the
home beyond the grave as far transcend what
earth can show of loveliness ? and would it not
present that beauty of holiness for which the
immortal soul must ever long !

He was roused from his reverie to find Mrs.
North standing at his elbow.

The sight of her face filled his heart with
pity. She was very pale, her eyelids were red
and hard from want of sleep, and his experienced
eye could read that her sore trouble was
rendered yet more grievous by rebellion.

However, there was no doubt that she was
pleased to see him.

"It is good of you to come so quickly!" she
said, in a strained, unnatural voice. And then,
without waiting for a reply, she continued,
Come and see him  if he knows any one he
will know you."

Leslie followed upstairs in silence. She
took him into a dressing-room, from which
opened a door into the sick-chamber. The
door was fastened back, and a screen stood
before it. Mrs. North motioned to Leslie to
pass in.

"" He is there," she whispered.

Leslie paused to let her go first. A sharp
spasm of pain contracted her features, and she
made a sign of refusal.

He bent his head, and entered the sick-room.

The windows were open, but they were
shaded by green blinds ; and it was a few
moments before he grew accustomed to the
sombre light. By the bed sat the nurse  a
sister from St. Mary's Home at Hammerton 
and in a further corner of the room was a manservant.
His help was needed at times, and
he had proved an able assistant, for he was
much attached to Roger.

Leslie stepped to the bedside.

For the moment Roger lay quiet. His head
was wrapped with wet cloths ; the flush of
fever was on his cheeks, and the sunburn
which yet tinged them prevented his face from
betraying the ravages of his severe illness. He
was muttering to himself. Becoming conscious
of a fresh presence, he opened his eyes and
looked at Leslie, but with no gleam of recognition.
Flinging himself round he stretched
out his arms.

Kate ! Kate ! where are you ? Why don't
you come to me? "

Then his voice grew fiercer, *' Mother ! "
he cried, "you are keeping her from me, I
know you are ! How dare you ? I will never
forgive you if you do  never, never! "

He lifted himself on the pillows, and his
voice rose almost to a scream. Suddenly a
change came, and he fell back murmuring
words that Leslie had to bend his ear to distinguish.


*' Poor mother  poor mother! O Lord,
have mercy upon me ! Forgive me my bitter
thoughts ! Teach me to forgive as I would
be forgiven ! "

Leslie knelt by the bedside, and repeated the

prayers for the Visitation of the Sick. The
nurse and the man-servant knelt too, and
Leslie's well-known voice seemed to soothe
Roger, for he lay quiet and looked at Leslie
with less of delirium in his eyes. With the
last amen his eyes closed, and the silence was
broken only by his loud uneasy breathing.

For some minutes Leslie remained in silent
prayer, and then, rising, gazed at his friend
with a full heart. Was it the last time he
should see him in life ? Would he never again
meet the light of health and reason in those
dark blue eyes ? For the last few years the
men had been as brothers, and the loss would
leave its own peculiar blank, never to be filled
up this side the grave.

Leslie bent down and kissed Roger's cheek,
and as he did so, his tears fell.

Roger opened his eyes, and for a moment
Leslie thought he recognized him. But he
began muttering again, and still it was the
same cry 

'skate! Kate!"

Leslie saw that there was nothing he could
do in the sick-room. But he perceived that
with his friend's mother there might be work

waiting for his hand. Sorrowfully he left, to
find Mrs. North standing at the door.

She did not speak ; but, inviting him by a
gesture to follow, led the way to a sitting-room
on the same floor. When the door was closed
she sat down, and her features worked with an
intense pain.

** You have seen what I have to bear," she
said. '* My son is dying; and I  his mother
dare not approach him. My presence excites
him to frenzy."

Leslie looked at her kindly and compassionately
; but he felt that it was no time to gloss
the truth.

' Is there no cause for this, Mrs. North ? "
he asked. '' Are his words merely the ravings
of fever ? or do they spring from occurrences
in the past which have weighed upon his
mind?"

And if so, does that make it any less hard
to bear? " she exclaimed, vehemently.

"Truly it does not," said Leslie, sadly.
*' If you have done your son a wrong, as his
words seem to imply, then indeed must his
ravings pierce as a sword into your soul ! "
Mrs. North trembled with agitation.

** They do  they do," she groaned.

Leslie walked to the window ; and a few
minutes, spent in deep thought, ensued before
he spoke again.

"- From knowledge I have gained from
Agatha, and now from Roger's own words, I
conclude that you have in some way come
between him and the woman he loves."

Yes, but that was long ago. Surely It
might be forgotten now. He learnt it first
from her, and from that time he has never
been the same to me. I have kept my promise.
I have done nothing to keep them apart since
she became a widow ! "

** Can you not make reparation for the past
by bringing her to him now ? Might not her
presence soothe him, even in his delirium 1 "

** Dr. Fleming asked me that," said Mrs.
North, almost below her breath. " I answered
that it was impossible."

** But is it impossible ? "

*' How could I bear to see her by his side;
to be received with looks of love," cried Mrs.
North, fiercely, *' while he turns with aversion
from me  his mother ? Has she not come
between us enough already?"

** Where is she to be found ? " asked Leslie,
pursuing his own thought.

*' Here  at Belton, with Mrs. Stephens."

** Here ! " said Leslie, startled; ** and you
have listened hour after hour to your son
calling for her, and have not tried to gratify
what may be his last wish ? Have you any
cause to believe that she would not come if
you asked her ? "

-No."

Again Leslie paused to think.

Mrs. North," he began at last, " you have
given me an opportunity of speaking  not
merely as a sincere friend, but in my priestly
office, and I am forced to speak in the plainest
words. It is not the Kate upon whom your
son calls that has estranged you from him.
It is the sin of jealousy which your heart has
cherished  jealousy of another woman because
she is the one whom your son loves. If you
would know peace and happiness on earth ; if
you would not endanger your eternal salvation ;
cast this sin from you once and for ever.
Whether your son lives or dies it is a plague-spot
that must embitter your life. If he dies
with matters as they are, I venture to predict

VOL. III. 12

that you will suffer in the future the pangs of
unavailing remorse. Should he recover, the
barrier you have raised will none the less exist
to divide you. On the other hand, conquer
yourself; bring the woman your son loves to
his sick bed; let him recover consciousness,
even were it but to breathe his last ; and you
will be for ever rewarded by the happiness you
will have brought to his dying hours. And
should he be restored to health  as Heaven
grant he may be  this act of yours will bring
renewed confidence between you, and will blot
out all the past. Choose now between the two
paths ; in a few days  nay, in a few hours, it
may be too late ? "

Mrs. North had covered her face with both
hands while Leslie spoke, and when he ceased
she so remained.

At length she looked up, her face ashy in its
whiteness.

*stay here," she said, ** till I return."

Rising, she passed through a door into her
own bedroom.

Leslie waited, scarce venturing to hope
that his words would bend that strong self-will.
The minutes seemed like hours until

the door opened, and she stood before
him.

Her face was more haggard and worn than
ever, and bore the marks of a mental struggle
of no common severity.

You are right, Mr. Leslie," she said.
*' Were Roger to die without my making the
reparation within my power, I should never
know peace again. I am prepared to pay any
price for one last look of affection. I will
even do your bidding  though you little
comprehend what you are asking  I will go
myself and bring Kate Ferrars to his bedside.
If she refuse to come, on her head lie the
blame! "

'* She will not refuses said Leslie, as all
he had heard of Kate's history, and all he
knew of Roger, passed rapidly through his
mind. '* Thank Heaven you have so decided j
Mrs. North. Under God it may be the means
of saving his life."

Then Leslie took her hand in his warmhearted
way.

Your act of to-day will bring its own
blessing  you will never regret it."

*' I do not know how that may be," said

Mrs. North, wearily, *but it shall be done. I
must ask you as a favour to remain in the
house during my absence; and if you will go
now and tell Martin that I require the close
carriage, I will set out as soon as it is ready."

KATE S VISITOR.

The garden at the Field House was one
which did not display its richest treasures to
those who entered by the front door. On that
side of the no use, velvety lawns divided the
drive from the adjacent fields ; fine trees
drooped their boughs to the turf; and dense
shrubberies formed a pleasant background.

But to the south there was a sunny sheltered
nook, where flowers throve luxuriant and
brilliant. Protected on the north side by the
centre of the house and its projecting wings
from all cold blasts, this bright little garden
was enclosed on its other sides by a low wall.
Ivy and flowering creepers smothered the wall,
leaving scarcely a sign of brickwork to be
seen. Flower-beds were massed on the close
green turf; rose trees, standard and dwarf, were

in profusion ; a gay border of herbaceous
plants margined the wall ; and on an August
day it would have been difficult anywhere to
find a richer blaze of colour.

A narrow passage which ran from the front
hall terminated in a door opening into this
garden. The dining-room faced that way, and
the drawing-room upstairs had not only two
windows looking upon the drive, but two which
commanded a full view of the gay flower-beds.

On a sunny afternoon, save for the slight
shadow cast by the low wall, the garden was
bathed in light ; and the flowers laded the
air with their mingled perfumes. At the far
corner stood an arbour  latticed and creeper-covered
 from which a view could be obtained
of the many flower-beds, bright with their red,
their white, and their purple. y

At the moment that Leslie was standing by
Roger's bed two people were sitting in the
little arbour  Kate Ferrars and Charlie North.

A week of intense anxiety had robbed Kate's
cheek of its colour, and the dark lines round
her eyes spoke of sleepless nights. And yet
after the first irrepressible burst of grief she
had been outwardly collected and calm, but

very quiet ; and when she smiled it seemed to
Mrs. Stephens as though tears would have
been less pathetic than her smile.

Mrs. Stephens was kindness itself, and did
what she could to cheer her. But in face
of the accounts which came daily from the
Hall none could close their eyes to the fact
that Roger's illness was of the gravest nature. 

The many visitors who came to see her
were not among the least of Kate's trials ;
still she never refused to show herself to the
neighbours and acquaintances of bygone days.

But the one event to which she looked
forward with longing, and which was the only
thing that could be said to give her pleasure,
was the daily visit of Charlie North.

He, poor boy ! in his way, suffered as much
from anxiety as Kate herself. When Roger's
illness was pronounced of a serious nature
Mrs. North would have sent Charlie from the
house ; but he implored so earnestly to be
allowed to remain, that she yielded, though
not permitting him to enter the sick-room.

The boy found himself both lonely and
miserable ; until one afternoon he was sent
with a message to Mrs. Stephens, when it

seemed to him that she and Mrs. Ferrars were
almost as anxious about Roger as he was
himself. From that time he went every day
to unload his heavy heart, and tell them all
that he could gather of Roger's condition.

To-day the restlessness of anxiety had
prevented Kate from sitting in the house ; and
she had gone among the flowers, trying to
employ her unquiet hands in gathering the
faded blossoms.

Mrs. Stephens was absent in the village,
and when Charlie arrived he found Kate in the
garden. She left her flowers to listen eagerly
to all he had to tell, and they went inside the
arbour.

As Kate sat on the rustic bench, her fingers
played nervously with the withered blooms in
her basket, and the boy flung his arms upon
the table and buried his face upon them. At
last, looking up, he shook back his dark hair
with an impatient gesture.

** Oh ! Mrs. Ferrars," he exclaimed, 'sit
would not be half so bad if Aunt Sophia would
only let me see Roger. I have asked her
again and again, but she won't. I know he
would like to see me, and I could be of some

use. How would he have reached home, I
should like to know, if I had not been there to
take care of him ? He was ever so bad the
last day, and he said that I was a capital nurse.
It's just like her ! And I cannot get to him
without her knowledge, for she sits in the
dressing-room all day, and the other door is
fastened."

** Why does she sit in the dressing-room ? "
asked Kate, surprised.

** Why ? oh ! to be as near him as she can,
I suppose."

*but she would be nearer to him in the
room."

*' Ah ! but she dare not go in."

* Dare not ! what do you mean ? "

'* It makes Roger fifty times worse directly
he sees her  Robert, who is helping to nurse
him, told me so ; and I believe that is the very
reason why she won't let me go in. Robert
says he does not mind anyone else, only her."

Kate's eyes filled with tears.

*' Poor Mrs. North! "

** Whenever I have been near enough to
hear, he has shouted out something about his
mother  I can't make out what it is that he

says. And then he cries out continually,
Kate, Kate "

The blood rushed to Kate's cheek, and her
heart throbbed with joy. It was at least
a happiness to know that even in his delirium
he called upon her name. But how hard to
think that she could not answer to the call !
Her breath came short and fast, and the deep
flush died away  to be succeeded by a more
than common paleness.

The boy watched her curiously. Suddenly
he remembered that her name was Kate, and
he was about to say so. But as suddenly a
perception of the truth flashed across his
mind, and in his turn he coloured crimson.

Then awkwardly and hurriedly he changed
the conversation, and began to talk of the
incidents on the Thames which had preceded
Roger's illness. This was an oft-repeated
theme, but one to which Kate lent a willing
ear. Anything that introduced Roger's name
she welcomed, and treasured each careless
word. Her heart thrilled with the pleasure of
unselfish love as she perceived how Roger's
brotherly  nay, fatherly  kindness had endeared
him to his cousin.

And so they talked ; or rather Charlie
talked, and Kate for the most part listened.

An hour or more had passed, when a maid
coming from the house advanced towards the
arbour.

*' I believe some tiresome visitor has come,"
remarked Charlie ; " I heard carriage wheels a
minute ago."

His surmise proved correct.

** A lady has called to see you, ma'am."

* Are you sure that she asked for me ? "
said Kate, with a suppressed sigh.

** Quite sure, ma'am. She said Mrs. Ferrars,
and didn't ask for Mrs. Stephens at all."

* Do you know who it is, Phoebe? "

The girl was a new servant. All the ladies
in the neighbourhood to her were strangers.

** No, ma'am ; she didn't give no name, and
I showed her upstairs to the drawing-room."

Kate turned to Charlie.

** Mrs. Stephens will be home directly. Do
not go until she returns, for she will like to see
you. Possibly I shall not be long away."

She crossed the garden to the house. Had
she known whose eyes were watching from the
upper window her step could scarce have been

SO calm. She went upstairs, wondering a little
who the visitor might be, and wishing for Mrs.
Stephens. For a moment her hand rested on
the door as she tried to banish the weary,
listless feeling of indifference for all save
one.

The latch yielded beneath her hand, the door
opened noiselessly, and she entered.

By one of the far windows stood the lady.
She appeared tall and thin, and was dressed
in black. So much Kate saw at a glance, but
her face was turned away.

For yet another instant she did not recognize
her.

Then the lady turned.

Every vestige of colour fled from Kate's face.
A low cry of astonishment  nay, almost of
consternation  escaped her lips, and she stood
speechless and motionless. Many reasons why
Mrs. North should come to her flashed through
her mind. Roger's delirious cry of *' Kate,
Kate," still echoed in her brain.

She was not kept long in ignorance.

Mrs. North advanced, v/ith a quick and
agitated step, and grasped her unresisting
hand. Then Kate saw how haggard was her

countenance, though each cheek was dyed
with one deep spot of hectic colour.

You are astonished to see me, Kate. And
no wonder. That I am here astonishes myself."


Mrs. North paused, and her eyes scanned
Kate's features. She had last seen her girlish
face shadowed by its first sorrow  her
father's death. Now, it was that of a girl no
longer. It was into a woman's that she looked.
And as she looked, did she acknowledge it to
be a face that once loved could never be forgotten
?

She made a painful effort, and then continued,


** I have no time to spare. I must tell my
errand briefly. Roger loves you  has loved
you always. Your name is ever on his lisle
calls for you. Once I did my utmost to
keep you separate. Now I would make amends,
and bring you to him, that at least he may
bless his mother before he dies. Tell me, will
you come ? "

Kate's heart gave one throb. She looked
not into the future. To be by his side  to
watch the flht for life  this was all she asked.

For sole answer she took Mrs. North's hand in
both her own, and pressed it to her lips.

Mrs. North winced at the soft touch, and
withdrew her hand as quickly as she could.

Do you mean yes ? " she asked.

Kate trembled. She saw in a moment all
that her answer would imply. But love was
stronger than her woman's pride.

*' I do," she answered, firmly.

*' Then you must come at once. I will wait
until you are ready. Do not keep me long."

Kate closed the door, and crossed the landing
to her bedroom. While doing so she heard
the voice of Mrs. Stephens in the hall below.
She rang the bell, and began putting on her
things with trembling hands. She was almost
ready when Keziah came.

*' Keziah, go and ask Mrs. Stephens to
come and speak to me immediately."

Without a word Keziah obeyed. She saw
that haste was urgent.

Mrs. Stephens had already learned that Mrs.
North was in the house, and had been closeted
with Kate. One word from Keziah was alone
needed to bring her with hurrying feet to
Kate's room.

When she saw her already dressed, she
divined the truth.

" Kate ! " she exclaimed, ** has Mrs. North
come to take you to Roger? "

-Yes."

* Wonders of wonders!" said Mrs. Stephens,
almost breathless with excitement. '' Henceforward
I shall believe that she has some true
affection for her son."

*' Mrs. Stephens, tell me ! Do you think
that I ought to go? "

*' Of course you must. Why should you
not?"

Then Mrs. Stephen's took Kate's hands and
looked at her affectionately.

** There can be only one objection to your
going. When he recovers, but one sequel is
possible. If you have made up your mind as
to that go by all means."

Kate crimsoned.

** Don't speak to me so," she implored, with
a deprecating gesture. " You make me shrink
from going. Let me go to him as his old
friend  his sister. Surely it is not strange
or wrong that I should be there I But in
any case, I must go. I cannot refuse."

Mrs. Stephens kissed her.

"No, my dear, I don't suppose you can. I
will see that Keziah follows with all you want."

*' But I shall return here to-night."

*' No, you won't," said Mrs. Stephens, quietly,
*' and I will come and see you tomorrow."

Then Kate hurried to Mrs. North.

Mrs. Stephens kept in the background until
the carriage had driven away. Going downstairs
she found Charlie, with an expression of
such bewilderment that, full as her heart was,
she could not help laughing.

No wonder you look astonished, my boy.
When Roger gets better I think you will have
another lady at the Hall."

'' Then she is the Kate for whom Roger has
been calling ! " exclaimed Charlie. " Oh dear !
if Roger would only get well and marry her,
and Aunt Sophia would go away somewhere,
how jolly it would be ! "

The drive to the Hall was a strange and
painful one. Few words passed between Mrs.
North and Kate ; and whenever the latter
glanced at her companion's face it seemed like
a mask. She dared not yield to the longing
which she felt to throw her arms round Roger's

mother, that they might weep and pray together.


And so the drive was accomplished almost
in silence. And the feelings which filled Kate's
breast were so intense that she seemed without
sensation until, standing by the bedside, she
answered Roger's cry for *' Kate, Kate ! "

** I am here, Roger."

It can scarcely be said that he knew her,
but her presence soothed him. In his most
violent paroxysms, if she spoke or touched
him he was quieted, and he would take from
her hand food or medicine that he rejected
violently if offered by another. He still called
upon her name  but not so often, or so wildly
as before.

And so Kate took her place in the sick-room.
Mrs. North only interfered to insist upon her
leaving it for meals, and at night, when she
sent her to bed. But not unfrequently she
was summoned again. For with night the
delirium increased, and his ravings became
wilder and more incoherent ; and sometimes
the nurse required Kate's presence when
remedies had to be applied.

As time went on, the periods of stupor

VOL. III. 13

became longer. The moments of fictitious
strength, given by the fever, were followed
by increasing weakness. And when he lay
with closed eyes and heavy breathing, Mrs.
North would venture to the bedside, and sit,
hour after hour, with her eyes never wandering
from his face.

Days passed, one much like another, and
with but little change in his condition. None
but those who have watched by a like sick bed,
and have seen the life of one most dear
trembling in the balance, can measure the
anxiety of those two women. And as day
succeeded day and their hearts were overflowing
with one longing, one prayer, they were
drawn each to each. Almost unknown to herself,
the heart of the mother softened towards
her fellow-sufferer as perhaps it never could
have done save in the near presence of
death.

A fortnight passed from the commencement
of the fever without any material change ;
but when the end of the third week drew near
the doctors predicted that a crisis was at
hand.

The day had been hot and stifling, and

heavy thunder-showers had fallen at intervals.
Now the sun was fast sinking, but was hidden
by banks of inky rain-charged clouds. The
window stood open, and to the west the green
blinds were drawn up to let the little air that
was astir find its way into the room.

Roger lay in a deep sleep, and had so lain
for some hours. The previous night and
morning had been a time of intense anxiety.
His prostration had been alarming ; and often
the watchers had feared lest each breath might
be his last. But with noon had come a change
for the better, and at length he had fallen
asleep. Dr. Fleming had seen him the day
before, and was expected again ere night.
Dr. Cuthbert had been absent a short time,
and had just returned to the bedside. The
other watcher was Kate, for the nurse was
taking a much-needed rest.

Farther away sat Mrs. North. Any moment
they thought that Roger might awake, and it
was impossible to tell how his mother's presence
might affect him.

All knew that much depended upon this
awakening, and all watched for it with suppressed
anxiety

Kate could hear her own light breathing-and
the beat of her heart. For the last hour
it had seemed, as she watched and listened,
that there was a change in Roger's slumber ;
that his breathing was less laboured, his
countenance more placid and at rest. Was
she deceiving herself, or was there indeed
cause for hope ?

The sleeping face showed most plainly the
ravages of illness. The fever flush had died
away leaving it pale and gaunt. Usually
Roger wore only a moustache, but the dark
hair had grown, making his hollow cheeks to
appear yet paler. And his brow looked more
massive now that the lower part of his face
had become so long and thin.

But all these were changes which increased
Kate's tenderness for him she loved.

From where she sat she could see the
western sky through the open window. A
gleam of sunlight made her turn towards it.
The setting orb had pierced through a narrow
opening in the thick clouds, and was throwing
a* golden glow upon the round-topped oak
trees in the park. For a moment it shone
bright and glorious, then faded slowly, and

heavy raindrops fell pattering on the shrubs
below.

She turned again to Roger. A slight
movement of his features told that he was
about to wake. She looked towards Dr.
Cuthbert  he, too, had seen the change.

She rose and stood by the bed, waiting the
event with beating heart. Roger's eyelids
quivered, then opened wide, and he looked
towards her.

*' Kate !  am I dreaming ? is that you ? "

The voice was low and weak, but it was his
natural voice ; the eyes that met hers were clear,
no longer fever bright.

*' It is I, Roger; you have been ill, I have
been helping to nurse you."

He looked at her with a look that made
her heart beat wildly. But she put a strong
control upon herself; and, taking the glass
that Dr. Cuthbert offered, held it to Roger's
lips with a steady hand.

** Where am I, Kate?  have I been long ill? "

** You are at home, but you were moved from
your own room when you were unconscious.
You have been ill more than three weeks."

' Ah ! I remember returning home with

Charlie. How good of you to come and nurse
me!"

** Your mother brought me."

*' My mother ! " and a peculiarly happy smile
lighted Roger's face. *' My mother ! Where
is she?"

*there;" and Kate motioned Mrs. North
to come.

Another moment, and Mrs. North had clasped
her son's hand ; and Kate, as she left the room,
heard the low cry, wrung from her heart 

*' Thank God thank God ! "

When Kate reached her room, the clouds
had once more broken. The sun's rays tinted
each falling drop with prismatic beauties, and
a rainbow, with perfect arc, spanned the
eastern sky. The birds, roused by the last
gleam of sunshine, sang loudly their evening
hymn, and their glad notes found a welcome
echo in Kate's heart. She, too, poured forth
an earnest song, and then came a flood of
happy tears.

But after a while, and wearied by emotion,
she threw herself upon the bed. She meant
to listen for Dr. Fleming's arrival, and learn
from his lips the confirmation of her hopes.

But nature was worn out. She had barely
slept for many days and nights, and now that
the great strain was removed sleep would have
the mastery. In a few minutes she was
wrapped in a slumber as deep and calm as
that of a young child.

When she awoke candles were lighted on
the table, and Keziah stood by the bed. Fora
moment she could not remember what had
happened. Then she was frightened by the
sight of Keziah's face, wet as it was with
tears.

' Keziah, tell me," she cried,  'you have
bad news."

But Keziah's tears were tears of joy. The
faithful maid had watched and shared each
pang that her mistress suffered in the last
few weeks.

*' No, ma'am, no," she answered, quickly.
'' Good news  Mrs. North came herself to tell
you, but you were asleep, and she bid me say
as soon as ever you awoke that Dr. Fleming
has no more fear for Mr. North."

AT LAST.

From the moment that Roger awoke to
consciousness, his recovery was slow, but
progressive. To Mrs. North It seemed as if
he had been given back from the grave. She
could not endure to be absent from his side.
The anguish which she had suffered, when
keeping out of sight during his delirium, was
now compensated by the tender affection
which he showed towards her. Never since
the days of his Infancy had her maternal love
revealed itself so plainly; never since that
time had he seemed so completely hers.

And yet from the first she recognised the
special cause to which she owed this love and
gratitude. She remembered that henceforward
another would have an equal, and even greater,
claim upon his love. She had made up her

mind that it must be so. But her heart
shrank from the consummation of her self-sacrifice.
She had brought Kate to him
when he was yet unconscious. Could she
bring them together again knowing what
must follow ? No ! the future was theirs ; but
for a few days, at least, she must have sole
possession of her son. But she did not fail
to notice how eagerly Roger's eyes turned
towards the door at the slightest sound, nor
the look of disappointment that inevitably
followed.

So passed the first and second day. 'A
few more," she thought, ** and he will be
stronger to bear an interview, and then I
will bring her." But she waited too long,
and Roger was the first to speak.

On the morning of the third day Mrs.
North happened to be in his room, and they
were alone together. Her thoughts were
occupied with the real improvement that she
perceived in his strength. It was with something
like a pang that she acknowledged it to
be so. " For after tomorrow," she thought,
** there can no longer be any further delay,
and he must see Kate."

Suddenly Roger spoke.

'' Mother," he said.

She started at the sound of his voice.

** Come here," he continued, ** come close
to me. I want to speak to you."

She rose, and went to him, and he took
her hand.

'' Mother, is Kate still in the house? "

'' Yes."

He gave a faint sigh of relief, and looked
into her face with a grateful smile.

* It was so good of you to bring her ! I
shall never forget it. It has been almost
happiness enough to lie and think of it. But
I want something more, mothers want you
to bring her now. I know I ought not to be
impatient, but I cannot wait any longer. I
must see her. I inicst learn if  " his voice
trembled and he broke off. Then he spoke
yet more eagerly, *' You will bring her to me ?
I like to think that you should do so."

I will," answered Mrs. North, and her
voice also trembled.

** Mother," he said, looking into her face,
wistfully, " this time you will not refuse me
your blessing? "

She bent over him, and touched his forehead
with her lips.

*' May God grant you this and every other
happiness, my son. None knows better than
your mother how fully you deserve them."

She could say no more. All her strong will
was needed to keep back the feeling so long
pent up.

But he put his arms about her neck, and
kissed her as he had never done since he was
a little child.

The tears were gathering in her eyes. She
could not trust herself to remain longer,
and, without saying more, disengaged herself,
gently, from his embrace.

Whatever these two days had been to Mrs.
North, they had proved a time of torture to
Kate. After Roger recovered consciousness
she would not go to his room unasked. She
waited for a summons, and no summons
came. As long as she had watched by him
she had had no thought beyond. But with
anxiety removed and leisure to think, the
strangeness of her position became almost
insupportable. Once more she felt sure that
Roger's feelings had changed to brotherly

regard ; that his calling" upon her name in
his delirium was but a memory of old times,
and no more real test of his present feelings
than the dislike he had evinced towards his
mother. If it had been otherwise would he
not have asked for her at once ? And after
what had happened it was not likely that his
mother would refuse to take her to him.

As this idea grew, she desired above all
things to leave the house. She shrank from
the thought of seeing Roger, for fear lest she
might betray herself. And were he to discover
that feelings far deeper than those of a sister
had brought her to his side, what then ?
Would it bring an avowal of the love that
she longed to hear ? It might be so ; but
unless that love were to be offered freely and
spontaneously, as of old, she desired it not.

And yet Kate was unwilling to leave without
speaking to Mrs. North, and to do this Mrs.
North had given her no opportunity. She
had hinted to Mrs. Stephens her desire to
return to the Field House, but that lady
turned a deaf ear, and assumed as a matter
of course that she would remain where she
was.

And so once more Kate was thrown for
companionship upon Charlie North. He was
in the highest spirits directly he knew of the
change in Roger for the better ; and, after
the loneliness of the house during the past
few weeks, he was not sorry to find Kate an
available companion. Privately he thought it
strange that as soon as Roger recovered
consciousness she should no longer go to his
room. For his own part he considered her
much more to be desired as a nurse than his
aunt. However, he had arrived at years of
sufficient discretion to make no remark, but,
according to his ideas, the actions of grownup
people were often most unaccountable.

It was the last day of August, and Charlie's
mind ran upon partridges. He was to go
out with the keeper on the list, and already
this morning had been for a last look to
ascertain the whereabouts of the finest coveys.
Returning to the house, he went to the
morning-room window, and looked in.

*' Are you there, Mrs. Ferrars ? " he asked.

She was there, and his coming roused her
from her painful meditations. Her thoughts
were busy with the idea of seeking Mrs. North,

and telling her that she must leave the next
day. She could not remain any longer. The
date of her promised visit to Mary was drawing
near, and what excuse could she make for
delay ? No ! she must leave tomorrow.

She rose and came to the window when
Charlie spoke, not sorry for the interruption.

*' Isn't it a pity that Roger is not well
enough to come out tomorrow? We shall
have the best sport we've ever had on the
I St. I have spotted three coveys of fourteen
and five of ten this morning. It is a thousand
pities they cannot be kept for him. But Aunt
Sophia wants some birds. They are just the
very thing for Roger now he is getting better,
are they not, Mrs. Ferrars ? "

"Yes," said Kate, and she envied the boy
for being able to do him even this small
service.

'' Robinson means to keep clear of the best
spots. We shall not go near the forty acres
or Briefly Farm. We intend to take the outsides
first. But the birds are so plentiful this
year that there is no fear of our not getting
a good bag. How long do you think it will
be before Roger can carry a gun? "

** I don't know," said Kate, a little sadly.
'* A long time, I am afraid."

*' What a pity ! The birds will get wild.
He will lose all the best sport. I say," added
Charlie, ** don't you think I might see him
tomorrow, after I've been out? It would do
him a lot of good to hear about the sport
we've had. Perhaps you will see him to-day,
and then mind you tell him to ask for me."

Kate coloured.

' I will tell your aunt, Charlie."

The door opened, and both turned in time
to see Mrs. North enter.

** There, you can ask her now," whispered
Charlie; and he went off whistling.

Kate's heart beat quickly. The opportunity
had come sooner than she expected. She
must summon all her courage to say what
she wished. It was a surprise to see Mrs.
North, for it was the first time that she had
been downstairs except for meals. Then,
looking into her face, Kate fancied she saw
traces of recent agitation. A sudden alarm
seized her lest anything should have gone
wrong with Roger. But her tongue was tied,
and she could not ask.

Mrs. North came slowly and quietly to the
window. For one moment she gazed on the
sunny prospect of garden, and park, and
wooded hills beyond. Then she turned to
Kate.

*' Roger wants you to go and sit with him
a little while."

Kate's heart almost ceased to beat. Did
this mean anything beyond the simple request?
Mrs. North's manner was so quiet that It gave
her no clue.

It Is such a fine morning," continued Mrs.
North, " that I have told Sister Bertha she
must go out for a walk. Roger is so much
better that you need not be afraid to take sole
charge. Will you come now, or would you
rather wait until a little later? "

I will come now," said Kate.

She rose as in a dream, and followed Mrs.
North. All remembrance was gone of what
she had meant to say.

Then, without exchanging another word,
they reached the dressing-room, and the
Sister, hearing them, came from within,
and gave Kate a few directions about what
Roger might need during her absence. Mrs.

North waited a moment, and then turned to
leave.

*rare you not coming in?" Kate found
voice to ask.

'* No," said Mrs. North, quietly, *you can
go by yourself; he is expecting you."

Kate's colour came and went. But it was
no time to hesitate, and she passed into the
inner room.

It was almost a relief to see that Roger lay
with closed eyes, whether asleep or not she
could not tell. She took a seat at a little
distance, and tried to compose her throbbing
pulses. After the first glance she dared not
look, but sat with her hands tight-clasped,
and her eyes resting on the ground. Even
then she reasoned with herself  " It is only
natural he should wish to see me." There
had been nothing in Mrs. North's manner
to justify her in expecting more.

At last Roger made a slight movement,
and she heard him softly breathe her name,

*skate!"

She looked up, and their eyes met. In an
instant all doubt lest he did not love her fled
she knew that he did.

VOL. III. 14

** Kate," he repeated, as though he
delighted to dwell upon her name, '' I would
ask you something. Do you know that your
coming to me when I lay insensible has given
me hope ? Nay, rather, the hope was there
before. It first dawned when I met you on
the Thames. If I am mistaken  if it was only
your sisterly kindness that brought you  say
so, I can bear it, and will trouble you no
more by word or look. But if not, tell me,
darling, is the love that I have waited for so
long now really mine?"

At first his voice was calm, as though under
a strong control ; but, ere he ended, it became
tremulously eager, and he stretched out his
hand.

She drew near and clasped it in her own ;
then, bending down, she laid her cheek
upon it.

*' Oh, Roger ! it is,  it has been a long,
long time."

*'My own darling  come back to me at last!"

Then, with what little strength he had, he
drew her to him ; and their lips met for the
first time since she had been a little child.

When Mrs. North left Kate, she went to
the same sitting-room to which she had taken
Leslie. She closed the door, and sat down,
and a still, strange feeling came upon her.
The moment that she had so long feared and
tried to avert had come at length. She felt
like one who has had a long fight with an
impending fate. Now the light was over,
and fate had conquered, resistance was at an
end ; and already she was conscious of a
feeling almost like relief. Leslie's words had
not been needed to show that her jealous love
had created a barrier between herself and
Roger. Conscience had whispered the same
before. She had known that by acknowledging
and sympathizing with his other love she
must have gained more than she would have
lost. But pride and jealousy and reserve,
each with strong hand, restrained her. Since
Roger discovered the part she had taken in
misleading Kate, she had suffered an amount
of self-torture which is possible only to natures
strong and reserved as hers. She longed to
entreat his forgiveness  to humble herself
before him, and yet she could not. And the
tears wrung from her in secret, though few,

were bitter beyond words. She marked each
effort on Roger's part to think of her, to be
to her, the same as formerly, and the failure
of his endeavours planted a sting most
poignant in her breast.

And now she was humbled to the dust
because she had let the time pass when of
her own free will she could have made atonement
for the past. Time and opportunity had
been hers, and she had failed to grasp them.
Then a higher Power had ordered events in
such a way that she had been forced to a
submission which she had refused to attain
of her own accord. But, with her humiliation,
had come a clearer vision. Scales seemed to
have fallen from her eyes, and she saw many
things in the past as she had never seen them
hitherto. Had her strong powers of loving
been given solely to be a torture ? No ! the
gift was good, but it had been misused. Her
earthly affections should have been raised and
purified by a higher love, and then they
would have proved a blessing, not a curse.
But her love had been self centred, self-seeking,
and ever embittered by the jealousy that
had grown alongside with it. She could



endure no rival where she loved, she had
desired in return a love that was impossible,
and so she had missed the love and happiness
which might have fallen to her lot.

And this same jealousy had ever distorted
her mental vision. Years ago she had justified
her interference between Kate and Roger by
the estimate which she had formed of Kate's
character. Now she knew that estimate to be
unjust ; she saw her more as she really was,
and was forced to own that one who had
recognised so loyally her rights as mother
could not be other than a loving and unselfish
wife and daughter. Was it too late ? Might
she not by demanding less receive infinitely
more ? Was it not possible that the love of
her children and her children's children might
yet make the sunshine of her declining years ?

As Mrs. North thought of these things her
heart softened. Memories of the past arose.
She recalled the early days of motherhood,
and her hopes and dreams for each infant that
had nestled in her arms.

A large Indian cabinet stood, in the room,
and presently she opened its carved doors.
No hand but hers had ever touched the

treasures It contained  no eye but hers had
ever rested on them.

Shelf above shelf was filled with things valueless
to any save herself. A tiny half worn
shoe, a little golden curl, recalled an infant
daughter, who had not lived to lisp the name
of mother. And many a relic of her soldier son
lay there  the child's toy, the school-boy's
prize, the soldier's medal, a tinted sword,
all found a place. And as she gazed on these
cherished relics arose their bright faces, their
active forms, nor dimmed nor aged since she
gave them her last kiss many a long year ago.

Nor was her living son forgotten. Little
gifts he had brought her as a child, packets of
school-boy letters, a prayer-book used in days
gone by,  these spoke of him.

Mrs. North's heart was full ; her eyes became
dim ; she closed the carved doors, and left
them.

By one of the windows stood an oaken
prayer-desk, and on it lay a Bible. She
placed her hand upon the book, and it opened
at a tear-stained page ; and on that page were
writ these words, '' And he that loveth son or
daughter more than Me is not worthy of Me."

Then Mrs. North knelt down, and remained
with her head bowed upon the open page.

Presently there came a light tap, but she
did not hear. Then the door opened gently,
and she, without rising, turned her face, all
wet with tears.

Kate stood in the doorway, her eyes filled
with a happy light, a soft flush upon her
cheek.

'* Roger wants you," she said, timidly;
will you not come to him ? "

Mrs. North rose.

Then Kate moved forward, and stretched
out her hands beseechingly.

*' Mother ! won't you love me too a little ? '

And Mrs. North's tears flowed faster as
she took this new-found daughter to her heart.

RE-UNITED.

One morning, that same September, Barbara
Ferrars sat with a pile of letters on her lap.
In her hand she held one that seemed to give
her pleasure, for a smile played about her
lips, and she was reading it a second time.

She was still the guest of her sister Julia,
but no longer in the London house. When
parliament was prorogued. Sir Leopold had
gladly shaken the dust of London from his
feet, the cares of St. Stephen's and the city
from his brow, and had repaired to his countryseat.


The latter was a beautiful old place in
Hampshire, one that had remained from
generation to generation in the same family
 the Mortons of Merton. But misfortune
and perhaps imprudence had at last brought
Merton under the hammer, and Sir Leopold

had become the purchaser of the stately old
mansion, with its richly-wooded deer-park and
many acres of fair country beyond.

The house was filled with guests, nominally
brought together to shoot over the park and
manor. Sir Leopold himself was not a
keen sportsman, but there were men on his
visiting list who by no means despised the
sport that the estate offered. The shooting
season was a convenient time for repaying
social debts, on which account the guests had
been asked, and the house was full. The week
had been devoted to the partridges by most
of the men, but the amusement of the ladies
had not been forgotten. Tennis nets stood
invitingly on the lawns, rendezvous were
made for picnic luncheons, and riding and
driving excursions were initiated, and joined
by those of the sterner sex who were no
votaries of the gun. In the evenings, music,
dancing, and theatricals forbad all ennui., and
nothing had been neglected to sustain for
Merton the reputation of a popular country
house. To-day the visitors were to disperse,
and in their turn Sir Leopold and Lady Isaac
would become the guests, for a couple of

nights, of a county magnate some twenty
miles distant.

The breakfast hour was a late one, and
Barbara had been up and dressed a long while
before leaving her room, to which her letters
had been brought with the morning cup of
tea.

The first she opened was from her mother.
A Reading postmark excited her curiosity, for
she believed her mother to be at Brighton,
where the family still resided. What could
have taken her to Reading? Her interest
and astonishment were not lessened by the
perusal of four closely-written pages.

Mrs. Ferrars wrote from the house of her
son Frederick, and how she came to be there
happened thus. Whilst riding a young horse,
Frederick had been thrown, and received
a severe concussion of the brain. When he
lay insensible, his wife, half distracted by
anxiety, remembered the meeting with Kate,
and what she had said of his mother's desire
for reconciliation. Without delay, she sent a
telegram, worded in the most alarming manner,
to her husband's parents. Even if Mr. Ferrars
had wished to do so, he would have found Ita

difficult task to keep his wife from answering
the telegram in person. But, whatever his
other faults, he was not implacable. Frederick
was his eldest son, and, up to the date of his
marriage, had always been a source of pride
and pleasure. Hardly daring to hope that
they would find their son alive, and doubly
distressed by the memory of their long
estrangement, Mr. and Mrs. Ferrars hastened
to Reading. There they found Frederick, ill
indeed, but restored to consciousness, and no
longer in danger. Perhaps in their hearts
none of them regretted an accident which had
bridged over a chasm difficult to cross. In her
letter Mrs. Ferrars expatiated at length upon
the charms of her grandchildren, and even
mentioned her daughter-in-law in terms of
approbation,

Barbara was delighted. "It is the best
possible ending to a rather bad business," she
argued. *' Mamma will be ever so much
happier. Whatever she feels for her daughters,
the warmest corner of her heart is kept for her
sons. I must tell Julia at once;" and she
started up.

Then she consulted her watch. ** No, she

will not be dressed ; and there is no good in
hurrying to tell her news that she will not
particularly care to hear."

And Barbara sat down again, and meditated.

Her views of life differed somewhat widely
from those of her family. Gifted with an
original mind, she had formed her own
opinions on many subjects, and did not blindly
follow those among whom she lived. Possibly
her slight deformity and bad health had aided
in this. She had early perceived that it could
never be her lot to shine in society like her
handsomer and elder sisters. Consequently
she assumed a spirit of antagonism, and was
led to criticise and condemn that in society
which appeared to her false and narrow. Such
a tendency would naturally have made her
sour, especially in a home like hers. But at
the time it was most needed, a softening
influence came in the love and admiration
which she conceived for Kate. From her she
learned to look upon the world in a new light,
and found a surer standpoint than her own
crude judgment from which to measure right
and wrong. Without losing her originality,
she lost her bitterness. Circumstances also

tended to create for her a place and work.
Her sisters being married, her parents ceased
to care so much for society, and she was
happy and useful in performing the many
duties which fell to the sole remaining
daughter. And thus it came to pass that
she valued family good will and unity far
above the censure of the world, even in such
a case as Frederick's mesalliance.

** How glad the dear Kate will be when
she hears of her share in this reconciliation''
thought Barbara. *' I must write and tell her
about it to-day. But there is a letter from
her, too, which this exciting news made me
almost forget."

Barbara opened another envelope, and adam
her face grew bright with pleasure. Then
hardly waiting to read to the end, she hurried
to her sister's dressing-room.

Julia was still under the hands of her maid,
who was giving a few last touches to her
toilette.

*' Why, Barbara, what is the matter ? " she
asked, on seeing her sister's excited face.

** I have two letters, with such news ! you
will never guess."

The maid left the room, and then Julia
turned to her, but with only a half-interested
air.

*' Well ! tell me, what is it? ''

"You shall hear  in the reverse order to
that in which I read the letters," said Barbara.
*' This one"  and she held it up  *ris from
Kate, and  she is going to be married ! "

"Married!" exclaimed Julia, fully roused
from her lethargy. " To whom ? "

* As if she were likely to marry any person
but one," replied Barbara, with an air of
superior penetration. "You know where she
is staying. Can't you guess?"

"No," replied Julia, "I know no one at
Belton. It must be some old acquaintance.
Stay! can it be Mr. North?"

Of course it is, and he is the only man
I know of good enough for her. I fell in love
with him myself the first time I saw him, and
he improves on acquaintance. It seems he
has cared for her always  ever since she was
a child. But I knew that before," and Barbara
nodded her head wisely. " You know
he has been dangerously ill, and that brought
about an understanding, and they are to be

married as soon as he Is well enough to goto
church, and Kate wants me to be at her
wedding. Are you not glad too, Julia?"

Barbara asked the question a little doubtfully
; for as she talked many shades of
expression had passed across her sister's
countenance, and that which remained was
not a happy one.

Julia turned away, and busied herself with
putting on her rings.

'eyes," she said, "I am glad. Kate
deserves to be a happy wife, and 1 suppose
that will be her lot. But don't look quite so
ecstatic over the news downstairs, or people
will think it odd that you should be so very
charmed by the marriage of your brother's
widow."

*' I don't care what people think," said
Barbara; "it is not an ordinary case. She
has suffered so deeply through our family that
it is only common generosity to rejoice over
the happy married life that lies before her."

Julia sighed. " Poor Sydney ! " she murmured.


*' If Sydney knew, he ought to be as glad
as any of us," remarked Barbara. 'you

don't wish that he had quite broken her heart,
I suppose ? "

*' No, no," said Julia, quickly. "You
misunderstand me. I am glad  very glad for
Kate's sake. I have myself wished something
of the kind. But one cannot forget the past,
and what might have been." Then she added,
in a lower tone, " He and I both made
shipwreck of our lives, though in different
ways."

Barbara looked at her keenly, and then
held out a letter that had been enclosed in
hers.

*' Kate has written to you also," she said.
And now I must tell you some more family
news, which I think you will like rather less."
And Barbara proceeded to detail the contents
of her mother's letter.

Julia received the information with no great
satisfaction.

*' Of course I should be pleased to see
Frederick again. But the wife ! I am sure
I do not know whether Sir Leopold will like
me to visit her."

I believe he would not mind."

*' Do you ? " said Julia, surprised. '* However,

it Is a matter for consideration ; and
because papa and mamma have acknowledged
her It does not follow that we are all to court
her acquaintanceship."

** If you meet her at home, it would be
rather awkward for you to maintain that
attitude."

** Possibly," said Julia; then she added,
How like Kate to meet them with open
arms ! I can picture her doing so. All the
social inconveniences that must follow would
never weigh with her an instant."

"And which is worth the most," asked
Barbara  *the love and friendship of your
nearest relations, or the opinions of people
who neither care for you nor you for them ?
I do not understand you, Julia. You are a
person of two minds  one who has not
decided with which stream to float. You
speak bitterly enough at times of the hollowness
of society, and yet you are a slave to
its opinions, and cannot follow the dictates of
your heart for fear of what Lady This or
Mrs. That will look and say. I am certain
you would have more real pleasure In meeting
Frederick again than you derive from filling
VOL. III. 15

your house with people who often only seem
to bore you."

Julia listened to this tirade in silence.

*' Perhaps you are right," she said, returning
her listless manner. ** I am a discontented
woman, and don't know what I want. But it
is nearly breakfast time ; leave me those letters
to read before I go downstairs."

Barbara complied, and made her way to
the breakfast-room. For a moment she felt
provoked by the want of enthusiasm with
which Julia had received her news ; but this
was soon forgotten, and her face was unusually
bright as she mused upon the two subjects
which gave her so much pleasure.

One or two men had already breakfasted,
but there were no ladies in the room. Sir
Leopold had but just entered.

*You look as if your dreams had been
pleasant, Barbara," he said, kindly.

** Ah ! but I have had something better than
dreams," she said, archly. ** I have had some
really good news."

Indeed ! good news is always welcome 
even at second-hand. May I hear it ? "

Barbara knew that he liked Kate, and told

him of her engagement. The news about
Frederick she judged would be best left for
Julia to communicate.

Sir Leopold was amused by her evident
delight.

*' You are showing a new phase in your
character, Barbara ; I had no idea that you
took such an interest in matrimony."

Barbara flushed a little.

* This is different to many of the marriages
one hears talked about. It is a real love
affair, worthy of any romance. He has loved
her for years. They are just made for one
another, and they will be the happiest couple
in the world ! ''

A young man, named Sinclair, had strolled
to the window, and listened to Barbara's last
words. He happened to be slightly acquainted
with Kate, and Sir Leopold told him of ths
engagement. He was a barrister, somewhat
cynical, and had cultivated the art of depreciation.


'' Ah ! Miss Ferrars," he said, with an almost
imperceptible sneer, "you spoke with such
enthusiasm that I imagined it was a case of
love in a cottage. But in this instance the

charming widow has looked well to the feathering
of her nest ; I know North to be a wealthy
fellow."

Barbara trembled with indignation. To
hear Kate called a charming widow was bad
enough, but to have mercenary motives
imputed to her was beyond endurance. She
scowled at the offender, and turning from him
scornfully, spoke to Sir Leopold,

*' You know her better  and won't believe
that she is marrying for money. I despise a
woman who marries for money, don't you ? '*

At that moment several ladies entered the
room, and among them Julia. Sir Leopold
saw her, and a cloud came over his brow ; he
bit his lip.

'eyes," he answered, curtly, ''I do."

Then Barbara would have given worlds that
her words had been unsaid. She had forgotten
all else in her enthusiastic defence of Kate.

By three o'clock all the visitors had departed,
save Barbara. She was to remain
alone at Merton during the two nights'
absence of Sir Leopold and Julia. This
arrangement was not unwelcome ; she was
not afraid of her own company, and promised

herself some delightful hours  to be spent
in exploring the shelves of the great library.
If she became wearied of the dead and desired
to hear the voices of the living, she could find
congenial companions at the rectory.

When Julia came to bid her good-bye, she
was deeply immersed in the pages of an old
quarto ; and for greater convenience was
sitting on a low chair with her knees drawn
up, and her head bent down over its pages
a favourite attitude of hers, and one that in
school-room days had frequently incurred the
censure of her French governess.

She looked up as her sister entered, but in a
dreamy way, that showed a moment or two was
needed to recall her to the present.

'barbara," said Julia, a little sharply, ''I
have but a minute to spare, and I want you
to attend to something I have to say."

Then Barbara roused herself sufficiently
to perceive that Julia looked worried and
anxious.

*' I am listening  what do you want ? ''

Julia went to the mantelpiece, and her
fingers played nervously with a piece of china.

'* I have just come from the nursery," she

.said, ** and I don't feel quite easy about Leo.
He does not seem as well as usual. Alsopp
thinks that I am mistaken, but I trust my own
eyes more than hers. Go to the nursery occasionally
while I am away, and if you see the
least necessity, lose no time in sending for the
doctor, and a messenger to us."

** Of course I will do that," answered
Barbara. But if you are nervous about him,
why don't you stay at home ? "

** I cannot. This is our first visit to Lord
Gainsborough, and Sir Leopold would not
like to give it up."

** I am sure he would give it up at once,"
exclaimed Barbara, * if you told him you
were uneasy about the child."

** What makes you think that ? " said Julia,
in a strained voice.

'* Because I know he loves Leo as much as
you do, and is just as anxious about him."

*' How do you know ? tell me," and Julia's
face became very white.

** He goes to the nursery very often to see
him ; he would not do that, would he ? unless
he cared for him."

Julia had turned her head away, but

Barbara could see that she was much agitated.
When she spoke again her calmness was but
assumed.

'* If what you say is true, all the more reason
that I should not disturb him by my foolish
fancies. Mind you do not mention it, Barbara,
but do not forget what I have asked. T
must go now  the carriage is at the door and
Sir Leopold is waiting."

And so Barbara's intended studies were disturbed
by the weight of responsibility which
rested on her shoulders. That afternoon and
the next day she paid several visits to the
nursery. But she was not cordially welcomed
by the head nurse, who resented the slightest
interference with her authority. Barbara could
perceive nothing unusual in the child. He
never looked well to her, and she was inclined
to agree with the nurse, and think that Julia
was over-anxious.

She spent the second afternoon in the
library ; but the day turned chilly, and she
carried her work to Julia's boudoir, where a
fire had been lighted. The room looked
cosier than the spacious reception-rooms
downstairs.

But before long she was disturbed by the
entrance of a servant.

** Mrs. Alsopp desires to see you, ma'am."

** If she is there, tell her to come in' said
Barbara.

The head nurse entered immediately. Real
anxiety was apparent on her face.

*' I should be glad if you would come to
the nursery, miss. I am afraid that Master
Leopold Is not well. I have sent for the
doctor already, and I hope you think I have
done right."

Barbara did not lose a moment in accompanying
her. Even to her inexperienced
eyes there was no doubt that the child was
unusually ill.

*' How long will it be before the doctor
comes?" she asked.

"- If he happens to be at home, miss, he
may be here in half-an-hour. If he is out,
it is impossible to tell."

** Then," said Barbara, with decision, ** we
will wait half-an-hour on the chance of his
coming, but a man and horse must be in
readiness to take a message at once to Lady
Isaac."

Before the half-hour was over, or the
doctor had arrived, the child was alarmingly
ill, and Barbara wrote a hurried line, which
a groom, mounted on one of the fastest horses
in the stables, was soon bearing rapidly
across the park.

Some five hours later. Sir Leopold and
Lady Isaac were driving through the gates
of Merton. Julia still wore her white satin
dress, and diamonds glittered in her hair,
for the summons had found Lord Danes-borough
and his friends at dinner, and she
had left just as she was.

The hearts of the husband and wife were
equally wrung by anxiety and sorrow, yet the
barrier between them was so complete that
they might have been perfect strangers, with
no interest in common. The grief that, if
shared, might have been lightened, each bore
alone ; and the few words which passed between
them were constrained and formal.

The night was cloudy and moonless, but
now and again the carriage lamps lit up Sir
Leopold's face as he sat rigid, gazing into
the gloom. More than once Julia regarded
him with words trembling on her lips ; but

his countenance was set and troubled, and
each time she turned away without speaking.

At last they reached the house. The hall
was lighted, and servants were waiting for
their arrival.

** How is the child?" asked Sir Leopold
of the man who opened the carriage door.

*'Dr. Wilson is here to speak to you, sir,"
he answered, evasively.

In another moment they stood in the hall,
and the village doctor came forward with an
air of mingled concern and importance, and
spoke in a low tone to Sir Leopold.

But Julia had heard enough. She turned
and sped with rapid steps up the wide staircase.
Barbara met her ere she reached the
landing, and would have spoken ; but Julia
pushed her aside and hurried to the nursery.

The women, assembled at the door, drew
back to let her pass. The room was in some
confusion, telling of remedies hastily applied ;
but the mother advanced, unheeding, to the
little bed, and with a cry of anguish clasped
her dead child to her stricken breast.

Still holding it, she sank on a chair, and
hung in mute agony over the little face,

more calm and happy now than it had ever
looked during its brief and troubled life.
None dared disturb her, and she was lost to
all around. She did not raise her head or
notice Sir Leopold when he came, and stood
for a moment looking at her and the child,
before he turned away.

At last it was Barbara who ventured to
separate her from the lifeless form. For an
instant she resisted ; then she kissed the cold
face, passionately, and let Barbara do her
will.

** Come away now, dear Julia  come to
your room."

Julia followed mechanically, but before they
reached the door she paused.

** I must go to Sir Leopold," she said.

Barbara made no attempt to hinder her,
but watched her anxiously as she descended
the staircase. The house was still lighted,
and going towards her husband's private
room, Julia met his valet.

** Is your master alone? " she asked.

** Yes, my lady, Dr. Wilson has left,
but " and the man hesitated.

Julia was passing on when the man said, 

** Pardon, my lady, but he just desired that
no one should disturb him."

She motioned him aside, haughtily, and
laid her hand upon the door. It was bolted.
Then she knocked, but there was no answer.
She knocked a second time more urgently,
and Sir Leopold's voice answered, 

** I gave orders that I cannot be disturbed.
I can see no one."

** It is I," said Julia; '* let me come in."

For yet another moment she had to wait
before the bolt was withdrawn. Then she
passed in, and with her own hand closed the
door ; for Sir Leopold stood as if he did not
expect her to detain him with more than a
few words. She looked at his face ; it was
very pale, and bore traces of tears.

**Do you want anything? " he said, as she
did not speak. *' Is there anything I can do
for you ? ' '

*Yes," she answered, impetuously, '* there
is. Do not shut yourself from me, do not
refuse my sympathy."

He looked at her in some astonishment.

*' What do you mean ? " he said.

*' Did not the child belong to both of us? "

she exclaimed. ** Do we not equally feel its
loss ?  is not my heart aching for your grief
as well as for my own ! Why should we
grieve alone, when if we loved each other,
were it ever so little, that love might afford
us consolation ? "

Sir Leopold's lips quivered.

** I do not understand you, Lady Isaac.
This is the first time that you have ever
spoken to me of love."

Julia's arms drooped at her side ; she hung
her proud head.

** Yes, I know it is."

Sir Leopold moved across the room with
agitated steps. Then he turned round, and
spoke with bitter words.

* Your feelings are overwrought. Possibly
you think you mean what you say,  in a little
while you will forget it. A woman who has
married for money requires more substantial
comfort than her husband's love. Yes," he
continued, pacing the room, and speaking to
himself rather than to her, * I am many
years your senior, and was fool enough to
believe that I possessed some personal qualities
which could win a woman's affection. I

do not say that I felt the ardour of a boys first
passion, but I was sincerely attracted towards
you, and was prepared to love you truly;
and I thought too highly of you not to believe
that your feelings would be the same. We
were married, and what did I find ? But little
penetration was needed to discover that you
had married for wealth and position  that
for me you possessed no other feeling than 
indifference ! ''

Sir Leopold paused, and regarded her
keenly.

** I have sometimes fancied that this was
caused by some prior attachment. But let
that pass, for, to do you justice, I have no
cause to complain of your conduct in that
respect'' Then he drew a long breath ere he
continued, * I am not a man to cry over what
cannot be helped. I saw that I had made a
mistake ; but you were my wife, and I accepted
my position. Yet I have deeper feelings than
you have cared to fathom. Do not trifle with
them, nor talk of a love which you do not
feel."

As he finished he sat down, and leant back
in his chair with an air of weariness.

Julia had remained in the same attitude  
listening with a flush of shame, and now the
flush paled, and she raised her eyes, which
met his.

** I deserve that you should speak to me
like this," she said, meekly. *' All that you
have said is true. I did marry for wealth and
position ; I did love another before I married
you ; and I chose you rather than him because
you were rich and he was poor. I hate and
despise myself for what I have done, fully as
much as you can do ! But," she added, with
her dark eyes flashing, *' is change impossible ?
Alas ! I know by bitter experience that it is not.
That old love died long ago, and in its place
a new and far deeper one has risen. Yes ! I
have learned too late to love you you, my
husband ! Can a woman drink any bitterer
draught than this ? to love where she is
despised  where she has forfeited her right
to be loved again ! '*

Her voice had become passionate, and in
her agitation she failed to notice how Sir
Leopold's expression had changed while she
was speaking. He watched her eagerly, then
half rose, and then sank back again.

She advanced a step towards him, and
her voice grew low and gentle.

** Leopold, I have seen how you loved bur
poor little one  Heaven bless you for it ! But
he has been taken from us. Have you no
love left that you can give his mother ?
Would that you were stript of your wealth,
would that you were a poor man ! then I might
be able to prove the depth, the reality, of my
love!"

Sir Leopold passed a hand over his brow,
as though scarce able to comprehend her
words.

She stood before him, satin-robed, with
jewels sparkling on her white throat and in
her dark hair. But the deep feeling which
possessed her imparted a grace and beauty
far higher than could be given by satin or
sparkling gems.

** Julia," he said, tremulously, ** do I
understand aright ? Do you really mean what
you say ? ' '

She bowed her head humbly, and he saw
the great drops fall one by one down her pale
cheeks.

' I do, indeed I do ! " she replied, in a voice

half-choked by tears. 'you say you could
have loved me once; is it impossible for you
to do so now? ''

He started to his feet, and seized her
hands ; and then she raised her streaming
eyes to his.

'* My wife ! " he said, solemnly, *' Heaven
knovvs that I have always loved you!"

With a cry of joy she hid her face upon
his shoulder ; and then he pressed her to his
heart.

And so, from the grave of their little child,
a happiness that they had never conceived as
possible grew and blossomed for Julia and her
husband.

VOL. III. 16

UNTIL DEATH.

The weeks of Roarer's convalescence were v.o
him a time of happiness such as he had never
known before. She whom he had loved as
child and girl was at last his promised wife.
And strong and deep though his love was,
it was more than satisfied by the earnest
affection that it met with in return.

The tranquil tarn, cradled in mountain slope,
was a fitter emblem of his nature than the
rushing torrent. His love would never have
rent his life by its tempestuous course ; and,
though unrequited, would have lain steadfast
and immovable in his heart.

Long had he endeavoured to brace himself
to the prospect of a life, not indeed without its
ties of affection, but unblessed by the love he
most desired. What wonder, then, that the
dreams he cour now cherish seemed almost

too bright to last ? What wonder that when
he looked forward into a long vista of years
with Kate ever by his side, her heart ever
ready to beat in unison with his, he was filled
with an almost trembling joy ? He who had
experienced little in his own home of that
perfect confidence and sympathy which forms
the essence of domestic happiness, was now to
taste It to the full.

What can give greater peace than the knowledge
that each thought, each word and action,
will meet with response from a dearer self;
often a mere look, a smile, enough to satisfy?
What strength such a knowledge gives to
men ! what power to face the world and all its
ills ! " It is the nature of that happiness which
we derive from our affections to be calm ; its
immense influence upon our outward life is
not known till it is troubled or withdrawn."

And Roger, while he rejoiced exceedingly,
almost feared for the security of his new-found
peace.

The slow hours of recovery did not tire his
patience, while he could watch Kate moving
about his room with light step, and ministering
to his wants with gentle hand. And much of

the past faded into a misty dream, and Kate's
face grew daily more sunny and like that of
the Kate of old ; and her laugh rippled once
more as it had done years ago in the rectory
garden to the accompaniment of the chiming
bells. In his deep thankfulness, Roger could
not even wish that the events which had lain
in the long dreary road between that time and
now, had not been.

Perhaps it was well for both to have learned
that earthly happiness rests on frail foundations
; that its duration is uncertain ; that
the Hand that gives can also take away. It
is those alone who have never known what
trouble is who tremble not sometimes at what
the future may bring forth. And in this world
of change and sorrow, is such fancied security
as theirs all gain ? Would he who has
attained to the knowledge and experience of
manhood return to the careless, untrammelled
joy of childhood ?

And did life present one chequered
breadth of sunshine, would it not cease to be
joyous by the very want of contrast? How
can the limner depict a sunny scene without
the aid of shadow ? And so, when Roger held

Kate's hand in his, and looked into her soft
grey eyes, the remembrance of gloomy days
but added to his bliss.

That his mother's heart had warmed towards
Kate was another source of pleasure. It was
impossible for Mrs. North to be demonstrative,
but from this time dated a softening in her
manner. Though naturally fearless, Kate had
always stood in awe of Mrs. North. Perhaps
an unacknowledged desire to appear well in
her eyes had tended to produce a feeling of
constraint. But now this was gone ; and her
bright playfulness, though it sometimes took
Mrs. North by surprise, was not unwelcome.
The latter experienced the mixed wonder and
admiration that reserved characters often feel
for those more open and expansive than their
own ; and, day by day, her old dislike melted,
and she grew to love Kate's bright and
winsome nature.

It was soon settled that the marriage was to
take place at Belton with the least possible
delay. When Roger was well enough to goto
church, they were to be married, and start
at once by easy stages for the Continent, the
doctors having ordered him to go abroad.

At an early opportunity Mrs. North told
her son that she did not intend to reside at the
Hall after his marriage ; and in the wisdom
of this decision Roger silently concurred.
Properly, the Field House was the dower-house
in the North family, but it was let to
Major Stephens on a somewhat long lease.
However, at the other end of the village was
a house belonging to Roger, which stood
empty, and this Mrs. North decided to make
her residence before he brought home his wife.

Charlie had his wish, and was allowed to
see Roger on the list of September. He was
rather taken aback and subdued by the change
that illness had made in his cousin's appearance.
But when Roger spoke of his engagement
to Kate, Charlie recovered sufficiently to
exhibit very genuine satisfaction at the news.
This gave Roger great pleasure, for it showed
that if the boy had not forgotten his old idea
of being heir to Belton, at least it bore no
weight with him.

After this, until the day came for Charlie's
return to Wellington College, he spent part of
each evening in Roger's room. Kate would
be there too, and the three passed very merry

and happy hours together. Charlie was by
no means shy, and when he knew that Kate
was to become his cousin, he began to call
her by her Christian name, and to treat her
after a cousinly fashion. He pretended to
grumble when the holidays came to an end,
because he said they had been quite spoiled
by Roger's illness. He thought it would only
be his due to have a specially pleasant time
at Christmas; and implored that, whatever
happened, they would be back at Belton by
then. As to the wedding, he professed to
despise it, and, boy-like, declared that he was
just as well pleased not to be present.

A month passed away, and, step by step,
Roger regained health and strength. One
bright October morning he went out for a
first drive, and on returning lay down on a
sofa in the morning-room. Kate was to leave
the Hall the same day, and return to the Field
House, where Mr. Beaumont was expected to
arrive in the afternoon. He had not hurried
home on hearing of his niece's engagement,
but now desired to be with her for the last
week before her marriage.

Roger was somewhat tired by the motion

and the fresh air  pleasant though both nat
been after his long confinement  and fell fast
asleep. On waking, his eyes sought for Kate.
From where he lay, he could see her profile,
and it seemed to him that she looked thoughtful,
and a little sad. She believed he was
still sleeping, and sat very quiet, with a book
in her hand, but he perceived that her thoughts
had wandered far away.

At last she turned, and seeing that he was
awake, came and sat near him, and he held
her hand.

'* What is it, darling ? " he asked. " What
made you look so sad ? "

She flushed a little.

** Did I ? " she said. ** I did not know it.
I believe I was thinking of the meeting with
uncle, and  and  that he would miss me,"
and her voice trembled.

*' Miss you ! indeed he will. I dread the
thought of facing him, and it seems rather
cowardly to let you be the first to do so."

I am not afraid of him," said Kate, with
a smile; *' and he wrote to me so kindly.
You know he said, if it had to be he was most
glad that it was you."

*' I am taking you from a happy home ;
shall I be able to make you as happy, I
wonder? "

"Oh, Roger! how can ycu ask? I feel
like a little child who has been taken from its
home, and has, thereby, been made very sad,
and at last has returned  rejoicing."

Then it is the coming to live at Belton
that you are thinking about mostly?" said
Roger, half-mischievously ; but he pressed her
hand more closely.

*don't tease me !" said Kate, with the teardrops
trembling on her lashes. "You know I
don't mean that. Of course it is delightful to
think of living again at dear Belton, but "

"Yes," he said, as she hesitated, "but
what?"

I should not mind where I lived so long"
as I lived with you," she whispered, fondly.
"You are home to me."

He drew her face down and kissed it.

You do not know the joy of hearing you
say that ! "

"Kate," he said, presently, " I am not sure
if I ought to ask you  don't answer if you
would rather not  but had you known of my

love when leaving Belton, would you have
waited for me ? "

The colour mounted to her cheeks, and she
turned her head slightly away.

** I think  yes, Roger, I am sure I
would."

Thank Heaven ! " he exclaimed, fervently.
*' To know that makes me feel you more my
own*'

** But, Roger," Kate continued, in a low
nervous tone, *' it would not be the truth tolet
you think I loved you then as  as I do
now, for I never thought of such a thing.
I was too young and childish, and while my
dear father lived too happy to think of anything
beyond. And when I went to live with
uncle I was foolish and impatient. He did
not care much for me then, and I thought my
presence in the house but troubled him. Then
you, my dearest and oldest friend, I believed
to belong to another, and that you could be no
more to me than what you had been. And it
seemed as though poor Sydney were the only
one who really loved me. And, Roger ! I did
love him in return  not like I love you  but
if things had been different, I could have loved

him very truly. It does not hurt you, dearest,
to hear me say so ? "

*' No," replied Roger, gravely, 'you were
his wife  I should not like to think you had
not loved him. It would not be like you,
my Kate."

'' Yes," she said musingly, " I did love him,
else surely I should never have suffered such
deep pain and sorrow for his sake," and her
face grew white with the remembrance of
those past days of anguish and misery.
*' Oh, Roger! may you never know what it is
to suffer shame for any you love  it is the
worst of all pains ! "

May you never suffer the like again, my
darling ! " he said, tenderly.

*' I never shall through you," she answered.

They were silent for a little while, and
then Kate unclasped a locket from her neck,
and laid it in Roger's hand.

Do you remember this ? " she asked.

I think I have seen it before," he replied,
looking at it with a puzzled air.

Kate laughed, softly.

What strange creatures you men are ! a
woman would never have forgotten. It is the

locket that I won at the archery meeting here,
and that you chose In hopes that I should

win it."

A smile of pleasure rested on his lips.

*' And you have taken care of it ever since
for my sake ? "

*' Yes, for your sake." She blushed, and
added half-shyly, " I have worn it ever since
the day I first knew that you loved me."

In some surprise he looked up into her face.

*' Do you mean that you loved me then? "

*' I  I don't quite know. But I liked to

wear it."

Then a grave, tender expression came over
her features. She took the locket in her hand
and opened it, and then pointed to the little
golden curl which lay within.

'* I wanted to show you this," she said,
gently. *' It is my little baby's. Oh ! Roger,
I loved him so dearly;" and a faint sob
caught her breath. " You will not mind
knowing that I did, or that I think of him
very often ? He came at the time of my
greatest misery, and seemed as Heaven's own
messenger-er of consolation. And since he was
taken away, he has been my little guardian

angel. It Is a long, long time since I have
wept for him. Even when I have been most
lonely I have not wished for his return. No !
I have hoped to go to him some day ; and
it is such a wonderful and blessed thing to
be the mother of a little angel."

Roger's eyes were overflowing.

Anything that was dear to you, and gave
you comfort, must be dear to me as well.
Never fear to think of it or to speak of it,
my dearest."

Thank you," she said.

And again they were silent.

Roger," said Kate, at last, *' do you know
sometimes I feel almost afraid lest we are too
happy ; as if our happiness were not real, as
if it could not last."

** It has been given to us," he replied.
Surely we may accept it, and rejoice in it
without being fearful of the future ; to do
otherwise would be the deepest ingratitude.
We have each had trials, and with the trials
has come strength to bear them. Let us
have faith to believe that It will be so again."

*eyes, I know," she said; 'but such
happiness makes one feel weak to bear the

thought of suffering; and suffering takes only
one form to my mind now, that of being
separated from you. Yet," she added, *' I
have one wish, and that is that my dear
father could know how happy I am."

*' I have never told you," said Roger ; *' but
the very day he died I spoke to him, for the
first and only time, of my love for you. He
said then that there was nothing he desired
more than our union ; and that I was to give
you his blessing if ever it came to pass."

*' Dear father!" she murmured. "Ah,
Roger ! that makes it quite perfect. I feel
now as if he had given me to you."

It was a few minutes before Kate spoke
again.

I must go and find your mother ; I shall
have to leave before long."

Yes, go and bring her here," said Roger.

For all these weeks they had not been
selfish in their happiness, but had been ever
careful not to forget Mrs. North.

Kate rose, and was about to leave the
room when she was stayed by the entrance
of a servant.

Mrs. Stephens' compliments, ma'am, and

she has sent the pony carriage for you, as
Mr. Beaumont has arrived already."

This hurried Kate's departure, and left little
time for good-byes to Mrs. North and Roger.
The farewells were not for long, as she would
see them again the next day. But, when she
had gone, it seemed to Roger as if the sunshine
had left the house, and he marvelled how he
had endured the years that were not brightened
by her he loved.

Needless to tell that Mrs. Stephens was
greatly rejoiced at the prospect of Kate's
marriage. She even went so far as to say
that she would have given up the Field
House to Mrs. North, had no other residence
been available.

'only," she remarked, 'ewe must have
found some corner in Belton where to lay our
heads. I look forward to a very happy time,
Kate, when you are settled at the Hall ; and,
please Heaven, the Major and I will end our
days with you and Roger ; and with your
children, I hope, to brighten our old age."

For the future, Mrs. North and Mrs. Stephens
got on much better. They never became great
friends, but Mrs. Stephens was mollified by

seeing that Mrs. North cordially loved Kate ;
and, remembering this, she checked many a
sharp word that, in former days, would have
escaped her lips.

As to the worthy Major, he was first enlightened
by Kate's summons to the Hall.
Mrs. Stephens had then to explain the whole
history of Roger's love, to which he listened
with equal interest and surprise.

To think of North having been in love
with her all these years ! " he exclaimed.
He didn't look like it. And all events there
was no pining about him."

'*I should think not," said Mrs. Stephens,
indignantly. " He is not one of your puling,
sentimental men who cannot hold up their
heads against a little trouble. But for all that,
it was not hard for any one with a grain of
penetration to see where his heart had flown."

*rand you discovered without his telling
you ? " inquired the Major.

"Of course I did."

And the Major, as usual, thought that there
were not many cleverer women in England
than his Maria.

However, he was as pleased as his wife, and

the kind-hearted couple had placed their house
at Kate's disposal, and took as keen an
interest in the whole matter as if she had
been their child.

It was with somewhat painful feelings that
Kate reached the Field House. She felt that
her happiness had its shadow, for she loved
her uncle very dearly, and it grieved her to
think of leaving him in his advancing years.

She found him with Mrs. Stephens, chatting
to that lady with the most cheerful look and
manner.

Mr. Beaumont never willingly broke through
the outer crust of his nature, or stirred the
deep feelings which lay beneath ; and it was in
an almost bantering tone that he greeted his
niece.

"Ah, my dear! you're a nice young lady,
fooling your old uncle by saying that you
never meant to leave him. I should have
taken you with me had I known what you
were up to."

Kate's heart was too full to answer, and
she felt grateful when Mrs. Stephens quietly
left the room.

Then she twined her arms about his neck.

VOL. III. 17

*' Oh, dear, dear uncle !" she said ; ** believe
me, I never thought of this. Don't think me
heartless, or that I love you any less. I could
never have left you for any one but him!"

*' Ah, yes, of course," he said, still speaking
lightly ; '* you were only making use of me,
you were only waiting till the right person
came."

** Indeed, indeed, dear uncle, I. never
thought of this! I could almost wish to be two
people. But  but  he is so good and dear,
and has loved me so long  what could I do ? "

She was half crying ; and Mr. Beaumont
became graver, and stroked her hair, and
kissed her.

** There, there ! " he said, *' it is just as it
should be. I know you love me, child, and
sorry enough should I be to think otherwise,
but it would never do to sacrifice your young
life to mine. And, seriously, nothing has ever
pleased me better. I honour and esteem North
more highly than any man I know. I have had
my suspicions, too, about what his feelings
were. And Heaven bless you, my dear, and
may you be a happy wife ! "

*' You will come and stay with us very often,

UNTIL DEATH. 259

won't you, uncle ? " said Kate, when she found
voice to speak again.

*' Yes  yes," he said, ** I shall expect you
always to keep a room for me, and my house
must be your London hotel. Yes ! I shall see
you very often  don't be afraid."

*' I mean to ask Mamsie to stay and take
care of you. She knows that I would like to
have her, but you want her the most."

Mr. Beaumont was glad of the excuse to
laugh.

'Are neither of us to be consulted in the
matter? "

'No," said Kate, with her sunny smile
returning, " I know what is good for you both.
But you have arranged for Mamsie to comedown
here next week, I hope?"

And then they fell to talking about the
arrangements for the wedding.

A few days later more guests assembled at
the Field House. Barbara Ferrars came, and
made Kate very happy by telling of Julia and
her husband.

*eyes," said Barbara, thoughtfully, ** we
hoped that poor little Leopold's birth would
bring them together  but it needed his death.

I always felt that there was only a step
between them and happiness, but how that step
was to be accomplished I could not see." Then
in her quaint manner she added, *ran old
maid, like I am, cannot quite understand these
things, but can observe their effects. A
happy love has made you bloom into a second
girlhood, Kate. Your face looks fairer and
fresher, your eyes are brighter, even your very
hair has gained a ray of sunshine. There,
you need not blush so deeply, though it is
very becoming ; and I wish your Roger could
see you just now. But I am digressing  to
return to Julia. Talk of alteration in you.
Bah ! she is another creature. At the worst
you were sweet, and winsome, and loving;
but she has changed from vinegar to honey.
The world is right side up now, and all its
motions perfect."

*' I am very, very glad," said Kate. *' Julia
only needed to love and be loved in order
to bring out the sweeter side of her nature.
Your news of Frederick, too, is very pleasant.
I feel as if there ought to be no quarrels and
jars anywhere in the world; and to know of
some that are healed is a real happiness."

*'Yes/' replied Barbara, '4t is very pleasant
to think that we are all once more united.
Frederick and his family have gone with papa
and mamma to Brighton, and I shall see them
when I go home. I believe we shall return to
Regent's Park, now that the cause of mamma's
dislike to London is removed. She has
become so devoted to her grandchildren that
I am sure she will wish to be near them. I
shall like to live in London, to be within reach
of Julia and Sir Leopold when they are in
town, and to have more chances of meeting
you. Yes ! we shall all be happier in a great
many ways. I believe that papa has always
felt your marriage with Sydney on his conscience,
and I am sure it will be quite a relief
to him to see you happy."

George and Mary also came, and they, who
best knew what Kate's past suffering had been,
could hardly rejoice enough over her present
happiness.

And on the eve of the wedding came Lord
Evered, and brought with him a costly jewel.

' It was made for your mother  years ago,
Kate," he said. '' I have kept it  foolishly,
perhaps  all this time, but I should like to

think that her daughter wears it now and then
in remembrance of one who held them both in
no light esteem."

'* I shall prize it very much," she answered,
with tears in her eyes; "but I do not need
it to remind me of you. You have been, and
must ever be, one of my dearest and kindest
friends."

And, as the wedding was to be very quiet,
these were all the guests, excepting Leslie
and Agatha, who went to the Hall, and were
to remain and help Mrs. North at a large
gathering of tenants and villagers. The latter
was to take place in the park on the marriage-day,
and tents were erected, under which stood
long tables, that groaned under their load of
goodly fare. Regrets were expressed on all
sides that the Squire could not remain to
share in the festivities ; but it had been
thought better that he and Kate, on leaving
the church, should drive at once to the
neighbouring town.

And so, one lovely October morning, they
were married in the old Belton church, that
both had loved so well.

The sun shone brightly, and nature had

donned her richest garb of gold, and red, and
russet brown. So far as grand company and
costly dresses were concerned, the wedding
was a very quiet affair. But from the earliest
morning the whole village seemed to have
gone mad with excitement and rejoicing.
And this was enhanced by Roger's recent
recovery. He was sincerely beloved, and all
hearts warmed towards him. Then, that he
should marry the old rector's daughter  as
well known and loved as himself  was a
source of still further gratification. The
feelings of the good folks found vent in the
erection of numerous arches ; and, as it was
the occasion of a general holiday, church and
churchyard were thronged from an early hour

Leslie married them, and his voice faltered
as he pronounced the marriage blessing over
the friend who had been restored almost from
the gates of death.

As Roger knelt before the altar, his countenance,
always pleasant, was lit by a deep joy,
and the gaze that rested on his bride was one
that the villagers said did them good to see.

It was over, and in the vestry hurried farewells
were exchanged. The ladies gathered

round Kate, and at the last moment Roger
placed a paper in Leslie's hand. Later, when
Leslie opened it, he found that it contained
these words  " For the new church at Primrose
Hill  a thank-offering," and a cheque
for one thousand pounds.

  4&  J

vj* Tl* 71* Vt* "Tt*

Ring out, glad marriage bells ! for this time
it is a certain happiness that you foretell.

Ring loud and merrily you do but echo
the feelings of all within your ken.

Welcome are your voices now, and welcome
will they be in the time to come, when they
recall this day  the first for Kate and Roger
of an united life of love, and joy, and happy
usefulness. And as your joyous chimes will
swell and vibrate in the clear air, penetrating
to many a distant homestead, and reaching to
still, secluded dells, where else the singing of
the birds and the sighing of the leaves alone
had broken silence  so happiness will fill the
hearts of these two with a tenderer love for
all, and make them strive to extend to others
less happy some portion of the blessings
that have been showered so liberally upon
themselves.

See them, the husband and his wife, as
they leave the church, and step into the
sunlight.

He, radiant with the happiness that he once
thought to be denied for ever.

She, with a new light upon her fair face,
the light of a perfect trust in the man whom
she now calls husband  a light which, so long
as life shall last, will never dim or waver.

