CHAPTER I.

THE OTHER NEPHEW,

LETTY ORMOND,

CHAPTER 11.

CHAPTER III.

 A miser's advice, .
- CHAPTER IV.

ON THE LAKE,

C H A P T E R Y.

'"" "if SHE BE NOT FAIR FOR ME,"



CHAPTER VI.

THE gambler's DAUGHTER,

CHAPTER VII.

A tete-a-t;te dinner,

CHAPTER VIII.

HOW VAL TOOK THE NEWS, .

PAGE






3G









CHAPTER IX.

A VOICE FROM THE DEAD, .

Chapter X.

I WOULD RATHER DIE," .

PAGE





CHAPTER XI.

THE COUSINS,



CHAPTER XII.

A CHANCE ENCOUNTER,

CHAPTER XIII.

A WOMAN SCORNED,"

CHAPTER XIV.

MRS Marshal's " Sorry,"

144

158



CHAPTER XV.

UNDER THE SPELL, .



CHAPTER Xii.

ARDENCAPEL HOUSE,

CHAPTER Xiii.

LETTY's TEMPTATION,

206



CHAPTER L

THE OTHER NEPHEW.

Once upon a times they say in
the story books of our childhood 
there lived in the county of Westmoreland
an old gentleman called
Michael Gale, who was very rich, very miserly,
and very bad tempered.

He lived in a grim old tower of grey granite,
hewn centuries ago out of the bleak rocks behind
it, and from which indeed, at a little
distance, it was hardly distinguishable. Crag-stone
Edge, as this gloomy dwelling was called,
consisted solely of one tall fortress-like tower
castellated at the top, and garnished with
narrow windows at irregular intervals, flanked
at the side by a kind of low shanty of redbrick,
roofed with slates which, in modern

VOL. I. A

times, had been inharmoniously added on toit,
and which represented the kitchen and
outhouses of the establishment.

Around Craostone Edg;e there were no
flowery gardens, no gay parterres, no umbrageous
shrubberies, nor blossoming alleys.
A kind of wild park surrounded it on three
sides, fenced in by a low stone wall, and
traversed by one rough road, full of deep ruts,
which led up to the main entrance of the
house. In this park there were only a few
stunted trees, and all over the soft, long grass
which carpeted it, a flock of black-faced
mountain sheep grazed at their pleasure, or
scrambled over the stone wall and disappeared
up the slope of the dark fell behind
as it suited their fancy.

This was not the show side of the county of
Westmoreland. Tourists and excursionists
never flooded the little valley in July and
August, nor did sightseers come prying about
the dark, narrow lake that lay silent and
violet-hued at the foot of the hills. For the
fells in this remote little corner of the' world
were wild without being picturesque ; even
Cragstone itself, a bluff" scar of grey rock that
reared its head at the end of the valley, being
striking in outline and inconsiderable in
height. Neither was the lake a smiling and
wood-bordered sheet of water  it was simply
a tarn, a mile long, and a quarter-of-a-mile
wide, with a setting of emerald green moss
and fern about it ; lovely and dear to those

who had known it from childhood, but not
specially attractive to the outer world.

Here Michael Gale lived and died and
hoarded wealth year by year. That was why
he chose to live here, in this gloomy fortress
which his father had purchased for a mere
song, and had bequeathed to his son,
amongst his other more valuable properties
and belongings. For naturally there was
nothing; to be made out of Craostone Edo;e 
there were no rents, no rich pastures, no fine
timbered tracts of land, nor even any mineral
wealth to be extracted from the barren soil.

Michael Gale owned hundreds of acres of
land on the western side of the county, and
in other parts of England  acres that included
many a village and hamlet,, and many
a productive cockpit within their area. That
was where the money came from, but he
chose to live at Gladstone Edge so that he
might save it  saving, being the ruling passion
of the man's being.

Michael Gale was a bachelor ; he would not
marry for fear he might stumble upon a wife
who might squander a few hundreds of his
wealth upon her dresses or her carriages. It
was safer to avoid women, he told himself; a
man never knows how they will turn out after
marriage. In time he came to have a rooted
horror of the other sex, and so he remained
single.

He had, however, two living relations in
the world  two nephews. They were not

brothers, but cousins, being the sons of his
two sisters, now dead. The elder of the two
was the son of the elder and favourite sister,
and Mr Gale chose to constitute him his sole
heir. His name was Oswald Power, and he
had been brought up to consider the inheritance
of his uncle's wealth as a certainty. His
mother had, up to the very day of her death,
constantly talked to him about it ; and, to
make assurance doubly sure, his uncle himself
had on more than one occasion informed him
that he had made a will entirely in his favour
so that there had never been any sort of
concealment about it.

With quite as much certainty, on the other
hand, did the younger nephew feel himself
convinced that he had nothing whatever to
gain by his uncle's death, Valentine Eyre
suffered in his own person for the delinquencies
of his parents  this mother having, whilst still
very young, irrevocably offended her brother
by running away with a handsome young
subaltern, who had nothing save his pay on
which to support his pretty, young wife.
Michael Gale wrote an insulting letter to the
young couple, telling them that neither they
nor theirs need ever hope to touch a penny of
his money, and then he washed his hands of
them altogether.

The pretty Constance and her soldier died,
after a short but happy married life, and died
as they had lived  poor and unforgiven.
Once, and once only, had Mr Gale ever

V,

seen the fruit of this union. When young
Valentine was a mere lad he sent for him
to Cragstone Edge, and kept him there
during the whole of one summer holidays.
The boy was handsome and active, fond of
scrambling over the moor, of fishing; in the
lake, of wandering about with a dog behind
him and a gun under his arm over the wild
country. His uncle let him do as he liked,
and took very little notice of him.

When, the day came for his return to school,
Mr Gale gave him a sovereign, and made him
the following speech : 

"You may show this to your mother, and
tell her that it is the first and last you will
ever get from me ; and you may tell her that,
having made your acquaintance, I don't wish
to know more of you, and that, in all probability,
it will be many years before I see
again."

The old gentleman was as good as his word.
Captain and Mrs Eyre died within a few
months of each other, and Valentine eventually
obtained, through Mr Gale's influence, a
clerkship in a London solicitor's office ; but
after conferring that doubtful favour upon
him, he took no further notice of his younger
nephew.

At the time our story begins, Valentine
Eyre was in the receipt of one hundred and
twenty pounds per annum, for which modest
sum he underwent daily an untold amount of
drudgery. He lived in two small rooms, a very

you

long way off, down the Fulham Eoad, but
which, owing probably to the distance from
the centre of London life, he got at a very
low rent. They were, moreover, conveniently
situated near one of the underground railway
stations. In fine weather he walkecl backwards
and forwards to the city where his
office was ; in wet weather he went by the
railway. When he got to his office he sat ina
high chair at a tall desk in a dingy back
room, and copied deeds or wrote letters as his
employer ordered him. When two o'clock
came he went out and got himself a sandwich
or a slice of cold meat and a glass of beer at
the nearest eating-house, and then he returned
to his work till sunset.

Of friends he had few, of society positively
none. There was indeed a maiden aunt of
his father's, who lived at Hampstead, and
who was kind to him, and at whose sombre,
old-fashioned house  once handsome and comfortable,
but now bare and poverty-stricken
he was accustomed to eat his Sunday
dinner, and to spend his bank holidays.
But this aunt was elderly and not rich, and
the friends of her youth had all dropped
away from her, as friends mostly do from
the poor and old, so that she had no introductions
to good houses to give to her
hard-working nephew.

Mr Malsham, his master, who was also Mr
Gale's family solicitor, never took any notice
of his junior clerk. He had taken him into

his office at Mr Gale's request, and had made
somewhat of a favour of doing so. He paid
him his salary quarterly, and there his notice
of him ended. Once, indeed, he had received
an " At Home " card from Mrs Malsham, and
had been deluded into spending five shillings
for a pair of gloves, and half-a-crown for a
flower, in addition to his cab fare, in order to
put in an appearance at that lady's smart
house in Bayswater.

He might have saved himself the money
for all the pleasure he derived from the entertainment.
He had stood in an cano-le between

o

the two drawing-rooms, very much crushed
up by the passing crowd, for the space of an
hour. No one had spoken to him, and he
knew not a soul in the room. The daughter
of the house had looked once or twice in his
direction, and he noticed once that she whispered
something to her mother. Yal did not
hear what the girl said, but the mother's
answer was plainly audible to him, 

' That I Good gracious ! it's only one of
your father's clerks, Bella. Don't think of
taking any notice of Mm ! "

Then Yal had extricated himself from his
corner, and had made his way downstairs, and
out into the street, swearing to himself that
Society," such as it was to be found in
Kensington Garden Square, should see him
no more.

After that he worked harder than ever, and
lived a more solitary life than before. It is

possible to be in perfect solitude in the midst
of London din and bustle ; and no young
anchorite in the desert wilds of an unpeopled
land could have had fewer pleasures or fewer
friends than had our hero at this time of his
life.

And yet he had as keen a capacity for
enjoyment as have most young men of
eight-and-twenty. From his father he inherited
a handsome person and agreeable manners,
and an exceeding, although hitherto
unsatisfied, love of field sports ; from his
mother, an enthusiastic and ardent nature.
He had his fancies and his creeds. He read
much and thought much in those solitary
evenings in the Fulham Eoad. He believed
in all sorts of odd theories about Darwinian
development, and the mysteries of future
existence. He had a fatalistic code concerning
the grandeur of the main scheme of
creation, and the nothingness of the individual
whose being merely contributed an
atom to the general whole.

His mind was occupied with these things
rather than with the subjects that were more
natural to his age. He would have liked
sport if he could have got it ; but as it did not
lie within the range of his life or his pocket,
he told himself that his place in the universe
was that of a worker and not a pleasure
seeker, and he resigned himself accordingly.
He had the same philosophy regarding Society.
He had no desire to mix in fashionable life 

such things were not for him  and he felt
himself vaguely superior to the butterfly
throng amongst which he sometimes shouldered
his way on a summer afternoon on his
road homeward through the Park.

If every man would only estimate himself
at the worth of his own brains, instead of
by the length of his pedigree, or of his banker's
balance," said this young philosopher to himself,
" there would be no democracies, and no
cry for an impossible equality ; " and as he
said it, he felt himself to be in no way inferior
to his fellows, and was content with his lot.

Having thus briefly introduced my hero,
and described in a few words his original
nature, which was studious, earnest, and
simple, it is now my purpose to detail a certain
course of events, and to trace the effect
which they had in the end upon his character.

One morning; on arriving; at his office at the
usual hour, Valentine was somewhat surprised
to receive a message from Mr Malsham, requesting
him to come and speak to him in his
private room. Such an extraordinary event,
he considered, could mean but one of two
things  either he had made an egregious
mistake in some deed, and was to be called
over the coals for it, or else his employer had
become so deeply struck by the value of his
services that he was about to raise his salary.
Hoping the latter, and yet fearing the former,
he presented himself in the solicitor's room.
mr Malsham, hardly raising his eyes from the

voluminous mass of his morning correspondence,
which hiy on the table before him,
motioned him with his hand to a chair, and
remained for several minutes in silence.
Then he looked up suddenly over his glasses,
and as if for the first time realising the presence
of his junior clerk, said, 
'' Oh, that is you, Eyre ? "
Val modestly intimated that it was.
Oh  ah, yes  there is a letter for you,
enclosed in one to myself from your excellent
uncle. Ah, here it is  pray read it here," he
added quickly, as Val, taking the note from
his hand, was preparing to leave the room with
it. He sat down again and opened the letter.

Headstone Edge, March 29.

My dear Nephew Valentine,  I have
not seen you for many years, and I am getting
an old man, and should like to see you
before I die. Tell Malsham to give you a
fortnight's holiday, and come up and stay at
Cragstone with me ; don't put it off later
than next week, and be here by Sunday if
you can.  Your affectionate uncle,

Michael Gale."

Val read this letter through three times
before he could be quite sure that he was not
dreaming, then he looked up at his employer
in some dismay.

Mr Malsham said  " Well ? " encouragingly,
and smiled.

Val did not think he had ever seen Mr
Malsham smile before.

I am sure I don't know what you will
say to this letter, sir," said the young man
doubtfully.

*' What does your uncle say, Eyre ? "

He says  he wishes me to ask you fora
fortnight's holiday ; but I feel sure that
just now at such a busy time I could not
be spared  "

And why not, my dear young friend ? "
cried the solicitor heartily. "A holiday will
do you all the good in the world  and most
natural and right at your age that you should
enjoy one. Does your uncle invite you to
Gravestone Edg;e ? "

'' Perhaps you had better read his note,
sir," said Val, to whom the unusual affability
of his employer was no less bewildering than
the letter from his uncle.

Mr Malsham put on his spectacles and read
the letter, nodding his head approvingly as he
did so.

Quite right  very right indeed," he murmured.
" You must fall in with your uncle's
wishes, my dear boy, and go up to him on
Saturday. I shall not require you at the office
at all after Friday  and, look here," unlocking
one of the drawers in the heavy writing-table
before him, and drawing out two five-pound
notes. " I have no doubt you are short of
money,  you young fellows generally are 
and there will be your journey and sundry

little expenses, no doubt, so I shall be pleased
to advance this to you on your salary."

Oh, my dear Mr Malsham ! "

There, there, no thanks, my dear boy  a
mere trifle ! I am only too happy to oblige
you  go and write to your excellent uncle at
once, and accept his invitation."

Valentine Eyre went out from his employer's
presence bewildered indeed. That Mr Malsham
should call him *' my dear boy," was astonishing
enough, but that he should actually give him
ten pounds was something so extraordinary,
that Val might well be excused for wondering
if the age of miracles was about to be revived.

What can have happened ! " he said to
himself; 'the world must be coming to an
end ! "

Meanwhile Mr Malsham was carefully reading
over his own letter from Mr Gale, and
comparing it in his mind with the note he had
just read, 

"Dear Malsham,"  wrote Uncle Michael
to his solicitor,  *'do you know that that
extravagant young blockhead Oswald Power
has started a four-in-hand ? I suppose he imagined
it would not come to my ears. It is
not likely I am going to leave the savings of
years to be squandered in that fashion. Give
the enclosed to my other nephew, who is, I
suppose, still in your employ. I will have a
look at him, and see what I think of him.
Mind not a hint to him. I shall not change

my will unless I take a fancy to him.  Yours
truly, Michael Gale."

A wise man can tell the way the wind
blows from the direction taken by the floating
straws," said Mr Malsham to himself as he
fastened this letter carefully up in his pocketbook.
" Let me see," he added musingly.
Young Eyre must be twenty-eight. Bella
is twenty-four. She's a fine-looking girl, and
ought to be clever, from the lot of money I
have spent on her education. Young Yal
must be asked to dinner when he comes back.
Why not Bella as well as another ? there is
nothing like being early in the field in these
matters."

By which it will be seen that Mr Malsham
had a good hope that his ten-pound note
would not eventually be thrown away.

Yal Eyre, therefore, left London on the
Friday by the night mail, and presented himself
duly about midday on the following day at
Cragstone Edge, in the county of Westmoreland.


LETTY ORMOND.

of it

% ONE-storied white cottage, high
up in a hollow in the green bosom
of the hills ; a verandah, covered
with budding creepers along one
a white gate into a stony road in
front ; and all about it a parterre of spring
flowers gleaming, many hued and radiant,
under the bright, cold, March sunshine.
This is Lady Cornelia Fanshawe's summer
cottage, where she spends the autumn
montis, and to which she also comes for a
fortnight at Easter, accompanied by one or
more of her nieces.

Lady Cornelia is a widow, with no children
of her own ; she is middle-aged and full of
energy, with strong feelings concerning the
duty of helping on her sister's children in the
world. Her sister, Lady Helena Ormond, is
a weak, pliable character, whose early marriage
with Mr Ormond has been a subject of regret

to all lier family. Lady Helena has poor
health, and is unable to go out much into
society, and she is weighed to the very ground
mentally and physically by the terrible burden
of the eight children which it has been her
misfortune to bring into this troublesome and
naughty world.

Mr Ormond is an over worked barrister, of
no great talent, whose life is spent at Lincoln's
Inn, who has no time to look after the worldly
advancement of his daughters, nor even to
attend overmuch to the educational career of
his sons.

What the family would do without Lady
Cornelia, her sister often shudders to think of.
It is she who through long years has arranged
and planned everything for her nephews and
nieces, enraged tutors and governesses, and
superintended classes and courses of lectures ;
it is she who got Ralph his nomination to the
Treasury, and. who has the promise of a
secretaryship for Teddy as soon as he shall
be old enough ; it is she, finally, who successfully
piloted Helen, the eldest daughter, into
a rich marriage a year ago, and who now
chaperons Letitia, the second, and is doing
her best to do for her as well as she did for
her sister.

It is not for nothing assuredly that Lady
Cornelia has brought her niece up to her
cottage in Westmoreland for the fortnight of
her Easter vacation. Lady Cornelia never
wastes valuable time, and although fresh air

and healthy outdoor exercise are no doubt
grand things for London-bred young ladies,
Betty's aunt has something far more important
in her mind than a mere regard for her niece's
bodily health and strength.

The drawing-room window at the cottage
is half open. Betty Ormond leans her arms
upon the window sill, and stretches her young
head out into the spring sunshine.

The garden, bright with scarlet tulips and
rows of yellow crocuses, smiles up into her
face. A soft puff of wind comes up the narrow
green valley from the lake below. It ruffles
the little loose locks on Betty's forehead 
locks that are deepest brown in the shade, but
warm almost to chesnut in the sunshine ; her
round grey eyes, fringed with dark lashes, look
lonoinorlv towards the dancing waters of the
strip of blue lake, of which glimpses can just
be caught between the trees below the house ;
her cheek is rosy with health and youth ; her
little nose, that was evidently originally intended
to be straight and fine and Grecian,
but had somehow thought better of it halfway,
and finished itself off into the prettiest
and pertest of little retrousse nostrils, sniffs
up the fresh spring breeze with delight, as
if it could not drink in enough of the sweet
mountain air.

Behind her, Lady Cornelia sits at her writing-table.
Her steel pen goes scratch, scratch
over the paper before her with a fearful
rapidity, for Lady Cornelia's correspondence

is a voluminous affair, and occupies her active
mind for many hours daily. There seems no
end to the number of letters she writes and
receives, and to the multitudinous subjects
she is interested in. She gets up subscriptions,
organised bazaars, has an unlimited
supply of imbecile and blind children, daughters
of poor officers and sons of poor clergy,
on hand to be canvassed for. There is no
charity ball upon whose prospectus she does
not appear as a patroness, no new scheme for
benefitting; her fellow-creatures for which she
does not eagerly promise her interest and good
offices. Besides all this, there was her private
correspondence. Lady Cornelia's friends lived
far and wide, and were legion in number.
Through them she kept herself au courant
with all the latest scandal of town-talk. She
was well up in all her neighbours' affairs.
Not a \7iarriaofe was arranged but she knew all
the ins and outs of it ; not a death occurred
but she was in the secrets of the testator long
before the will was made public ; she knew
how much everybody would be left, who
would rejoice and who be disappointed.
AVhen there was a black sheep in a family,
Lady Cornelia would look mysterious and
shake her head over him ; when a girl had
fallen in love, " not wisely but too well," she
would sigh over her, and drop hints, vague
but awful, of her shortcomings,  in fact, Lady
Cornelia was one of those people who know
everything and everybody, and whose finger

VOL. I. B

is everlastingly inserted into every pie that is
baked upon the face of the earth.

As a matter of course, she made mistakes 
fearful, outrageous mistakes sometimes, but
that did not seem to affect her credit with the
world, and she was good-humouredly indifferent
to being found out in her errors. Naturally,
when a woman affirms of nine-tenths of
her acquaintances that she knows their incomes,
the condition of their banker's balance,
the items of the bills of the son at college, the
exact figure of the daughter's trousseau ; when
she states that she understands why Lord so-and-so
never wt on with his wife, and whv
his wife gets on much better with somebody
else ; when she asserts herself positively acquainted
with the number of proposals Mrs
A.'s daughter has received, and with the reasons
why young Sir John B. wouldn't marry the girl
his mother desired him to espouse, why, it
stands to reason that this heterogeneous mass
of knowledge must occasionally find itself at
fault. But Lady Cornelia didn't care ; if she
stumbled, she picked up the bits, and went
on again.

I want to go out, aunt. I suppose you
have no objection ? " says Betty, half turning
round at the window.

'' None whatever ; get your hat, my dear.
Betty," looking up from her writing as the
girl was leaving the room ; *' in which direction
are you going ? "

I was going in the boat, aunt, to row myself
across the lake."

Well, I had rather yon did not do that.
Go for a walk  go along; the road towards
Cragstone Tower."

Betty gave one sharp look from under her
eyelashes ; something like a smile hovered
about the corners of her mouth.

*' It's a nice dry road," continued Lady
Cornelia, without looking at her, " and more
cheerful ; and you ought to understand that I
particularly wish you to go in that direction."

Betty laughed a short defiant laugh, tossing
back her brown head scornfully.

Oh yes, I understand, Aunt Cornelia. I
am quite clever enough to know perfectly what
you mean ; it would not be wonderful, would
it, if I were to stumble upon Oswald Power
along the Cragstone road ? he generally comes
up about this time of the year for Easter. He
and I might meet ' accidentally on purpose,'
of course ! it would happen so oddly and so
conveniently if I were to be lucky enough to
run him to ground up in Westmoreland. You
thought of all that, of course, when you asked
me to come up here for Easter with you,
although it was Eita's turn, and not mine."

Lady Cornelia tapped her foot impatiently.

You put things very broadly and coarsely,
my dear ; a modest-minded girl should never,
even to her nearest and dearest relations,
openly speak about ' running a gentleman to
ground,' it does not sound nice."

'' No, she is only taught to do it, not to
talk about it ! " said Betty, contemptuously.
I am afraid I am not modest-minded or nice,
for I generally speak a thing out if it is in my
mind."

Far too much  far too much, Betty. Your
mother and I never in our most intimate conversations
put things in such bold language as
you have just done unblushingly. We might
both of us have known that Mr Power may
very possibly come to Cragstone Edge this
month, but it did not pass our lips, I assure
you, we only hoped that if  mind I only say
/' you did happen to meet, that you would
not again be so foolish, so wrong, as to refuse
a man who will have, at the very least, twenty
thousand a-year as soon as the breath is out
of his uncle's body. You made a great mistake
last season. A man like that  a catch 
doesn't often care to give another chance to
a girl who is one of a large family, and never
likely to have a penny of her own. He may
never' ask you again  certainly he never would
in town  these wealthy young men are so run
after, and so mobbed ; but up here, amongst
the hills and the lakes, bored to death at that
grim old castle, without an educated being to
speak to, his old interest in you might easily
revive."

Betty listened patiently all through this
speech ; then she gave her head a toss.

*what a pretty romance you and mamma
have woven ! quite a three-volume novel !

only, unfortunately, there is a little item
missing[  the heroine is here in the flesh 
but where is the hero ? Certainly not at Crag-stone
Edge ! "

Well, I am not so sure of that, my dear.
Evans tells me he saw the castle doff-cart
coming along the station road, on Saturday
afternoon, with a young gentleman up in
front, and a portmanteau and a fishing-rod at
the back 1 "

'* Yes ; but it wasn't Oswald Power," said
Betty, rather triumphantly, nodding her head.

"Who else could it have been?" asked
Lady Cornelia, sharply.

The other nephew  Mr Eyre."

'' Impossible ! who told you so ? "

Mary heard it, yesterday morning, at
Kirtlebeck church, from her sister, who goes
in to work at Mr Gale's twice a-week  she
was there on Saturday when he arrived  and
it is Valentine Eyre ! "

'* Dear me, how very strange ; I wonder
what brings hmi up here ? "

Some freak of the old man's, I daresay.
I remember him perfectly when he was up
here years ago, and Helen and I were staying
with you  he was about fourteen, and Helen
was nine and I was six -he used to kiss Helen
and take her out in his boat ; but he used to
torment me horribly. He was a very good-looking
boy, with dark blue eyes. I wonder
if he has grown up handsome ? "

I don't see that it matters, Betty."

*' Well, I don't know ; I shall be very pleased
to meet him again. I wonder if he will remember
me ? " continued the girl musingly.

"I don't think it signifies whether this
young man remembers you or not," said Lady
Cornelia impatiently ; " I should hope you will
not be so lost to self-respect as to attempt any
renewal of acquaintance with him."

Why on earth not ? " asked Betty, opening
her eyes in surprise.

'* I know it for a fact that lie will never have
a penny of his uncle's money ; old Mr Gale
tells everyone so."

Oh, is that all ! ineligible ! to be sure  I
understand  I think that is the very reason I
should like him."

Betty, you are incorrigible ! " cried her
aunt angrily ; '* what is the use of trying to
instil proper feeling into a girl so perverse as
you are ? if you die a pauper it will be your
own fault."

Not yours, certainly," said Betty lightly ;
don't alarm yourself, Aunt Cornelia, I am not
going to elope with Mr Gale's penniless nephew
not this week at all events 1 "

Lady Cornelia was silent for a moment or
two, but her pen flew over the paper and she
frowned heavily to herself.

Truth to say, her niece Letitia was a thorn
in the flesh to her  she was not eager to marry
well or to have fine clothes and carriages and
jewels as her sister Helen had been, nor was she
meek and gentle and docile as Eita, the younger

girl, promised to be. Betty was audacious and
outspoken  she declined to be disposed of like
a bale of goods  she had independent and
altogether impracticable notions about love ina
cottage, and she had refused the best match
of the season, and was not one whit ashamed
of herself for doing so ; What was to be done
with a girl of this kind ? Lady Cornelia knew
that she had a handful in Betty ; but not for
that did she shrink from what she believed to
be her duty or desire to shirk the responsibility
of disposing of her niece's life in a suitable
manner. Only Betty was an anxiety to
her.

Have you done talking to me  may I
go ? " said Betty's voice behind her.

Lady Cornelia nodded, and Betty vanished.

Nothing more had been said about the walk
alone the road to Gravestone Tower, so chuckling
to herself like a naughty child bent on
mischief, the girl ran quickly down the steep
stony road towards the lake.

What the eye does not see the heart does
not grieve over ! " said Betty to herself as she
jumped into the little boat that lay amongst
the rushes by the water's edge.

A M I S E e's advice.

I T down, nephew Valentine. I
wish to talk to you."

The speaker was old Michael
Gale, and the place was the one
inhabited sitting-room in use at Craostone
Jiidge  a room small, meagre, and bare to the
last degree.

It was on. the same sunny Monday morning
after his arrival in Westmoreland on which
Betty Ormond, two miles away, had thrust
forth her pretty head from the window, and
had looked longingly at the lake, that Val
found himself thus formally addressed by his
uncle.

He too had cherished a half ripened project
of strolling out to the mere with his
fishing-rod, for his starved London eyes had
looked longingly upon the emerald-set sheet
of dancing water, that was visible in its full
length and breadth from every window of

the house, and had longed to feast themselves
with a nearer view of its beauty. But these
projects were summarily stifled by the abovementioned
remark of his host and uncle.

He sat down as he was desired upon a
singularly hard-seated and straight-backed
chair, and resigned himself to his fate.

Michael Gale sat opposite him on the further
side of a much worn and very shabby writing-table.
He was a small, smooth-shaven little
old man, with sharp, keen-looking eyes, that
had never yet needed the help of glasses  his
head was habitually somewhat bent forward,
and he had a way of peering up at people from
under his bushy grey eyebrows that was
peculiarly embarrassing and disagreeable. He
had a bald head and a protuberant forehead,
a nose that was slightly hooked, and lips that
were thin and singularly remorseless and cruel
in their expression. He was not a pleasant-looking
old man, but there was intelligence
and even power in his face, and he was
in full possession of all his faculties. As
Valentine Eyre sat opposite his uncle, he felt
drawn by no sentiments of affection towards
his mother s brother ; neither was there, on
the other hand, the slightest feelings in his
mind that it would be desirable for him to
flatter or to cajole this wealthy old gentleman.


Val was rather grateful to him for having
asked him up to Cragstone  he thought it
kind of him to have procured him a holiday 

and if he speculated at all about the cause of
his kindness, merely imagined that a feeling
of remorse for his neglect of his dead sister
had led him to make some slight advances
towards her son. Mr Gale spread his handkerchiefs
 a yellow silk one of an old-fashioned
pattern  across his knees, and looked up at
his nephew in the sharp and unpleasant fashion
before mentioned. Val, who did not like
being peered at as if he was a witness under
cross - examination, moved uneasily in his
chair, and allowed his own eyes  that were
(quite as blue as Betty Ormond remembered
them to be  to wander away out of the
window.

Nephew Valentine," said Michael Gale, ina
sharp, harsh voice, " I wish to know what
sort of life you lead in London."

Val started. The question was comprehensive
and somewhat formidable, but the
young man was more surprised than nonplussed
by it. There was nothing to hide or
to keep back in so simple and so laborious an
existence as his own. Nevertheless, he hesitated
a little.

In what way, uncle ? " he asked.

What do you do with yourself  who, to
begin with, are your intimate friends ? "

I have none."

'' None ?  good ! Do you go into society ? "

"Not at all."

Do you bet, or drink or gamble ? "

No, sir  certainly not."

Do you smoke ? "

Well a little."

All  pipes or cigars ? "

Pipes, as a rule," said Yal, fairly laughing
at this singular catechising;.

The old man nodded approvingly.

"Well, well. I don't object to a pipe myself.
It's a comfort, and often saves food  the
extravagance of cigars is quite another matter.
I am glad you don't smoke cigars, nephew."

Val, who was perhaps not so guiltless on
this subject as his uncle imagined him to be,
looked down modestly, and prudently held his
tongue.

Then, what do you do with yourself all
day ? " continued the old gentleman.

"I go to Mr Malsham's, sir, every day of
my life. I am there from ten o'clock till six.
Such a life does not leave much leisure for
enjoyment, as you may imagine."

No, no, and Cjuite right, too. Young men
ought to work, or else how do they expect to
live when they are old. But tell me, nephew,
you live, I believe, a long way from the
city, in the west end 1 "

Yes, sir, in the Fulham Road."

And how do you go backwards and forwards
to your work ? "

I generally walk, sir."

Good, good ! walking is a healthy exercise,
and it is cheap. Quite right to walk
always."

I do, unless it is wet."

*' And if it is wet, what do you do ? "

He leant forward in his chair, and frowned.

Don't tell me, sir, that if it is wet you
are guilty of the iniquitous extravagance of
hiring a hansom or four-wheeled cab ! "

'not I, sir," answered Val cheerily; "I
take the underground railway."

Mr Gale leant back with a sigh of relief.

Ah, yes, to be sure ; I had forgotten that.
It is since my time they have got the underground
railway."

He was silent for a few seconds, then suddenly
sat bolt upright in his chair, as though
a new idea had struck him.

What class do you go by ? " he inquired
sharply.

Val flushed a little, and looked down. He
was poor, and, as a rule, he saw no shame in
his poverty. But the simplest-minded man
does not, perhaps, care always to confess to
the little shifts and straights which his

o

poverty has reduced him to practise. He
hesitated.

What class, sir ? " cried his uncle again,
stretching forth his withered brown hand, and
bending forward eagerly in his chair, as though,
at last, he had discovered a flaw in his conduct.

Then Val owned, blushing, that he usually
travelled third class.

Michael Gale positively chuckled ; there
passed over his countenance an expression of
extreme satisfaction ; he rubbed his hands,
one over the other, with unconcealed delight.

Ah ! " he said to himself, below his breath,
'' the boy has the Gale blood in him ; that's
what I like to hear. Save the pence, and the
pounds will take care of themselves. That
is what I was brought up to learn. Have
you ever, sir," turning to his nephew, ' calculated
how many shillings you save in one year
by always travelling third, instead of first
class ? "

"No, sir," answered Yal, smiling; "I certainly
never have done so. I should be very
glad to travel first class if I could," he added.

Ah, don't say that, my boy,  don't say
that. Waste of money is always wrong.
What was money given us for ? "

Val felt inclined to answer, 

To spend." But his better angel fortunately
restrained him from making so imprudent
a response, and Michael Gale answered
his own question 

To save, sir  to save ! I am a poor man,
nephew Valentine,  a very poor man, whatever
anybody may say ; but I should be
poorer than I am if I had not saved what I
could in those little ways all my life. Do
you know," continued Mr Gale, after a short
pause, during which Yal fidgeted on his
chair, and wondered how soon he would be
allowed to go out. "do you know," in a voice
of deep disapproval, " that your cousin has
started a coach ? "

Val again repressed, with an effort, the
natural expression that rose to his lips.

Lucky beggar ! " he felt inclined to say ;
but, wisely, he only remarked, 

"Yes, I have heard so."

'' And four horses !'' continued the old man,
in a voice of increasing horror, as though that
was an additional offence.

Val was silent. He did not care for his
cousin  hardly knew him, in fact ; but it was
not in his nature to cast a word of censure
at a man whose o;ood fortune he envied.

You know," continued old Gale, who was
watching him narrowly  '' you know that he
is my heir ? "

Yes, sir,"

*'He will have all my money, every penny
of it  that is, what there is. It's little enough ;
but he will get it cdV

*' I am sure, sir, I do not grudge it to him,"
answered Val, heartily, and controlling his
temper perfectly, although it was certainly
aggravating to be told this over and over
again.

And then Michael Gale lay back in his
chair, and laughed softly to himself, much asa
cat may laugh over the maimed mouse she
is in the act of tormenting.

There ! there ! you may go now, nephew ;
I see you are longing to be out. Take your
rod, and see if you can catch a trout or two ;
they will do for our dinner, and save butchers'
meat, which, heaven help us, is dear enough
in all conscience ! "

Val rose quickly, and in spite of the prospect

of this most luxurious meal, felt glad
enough to be released. He was already halfway
to the door, when his uncle called him
back.

By the way, Val, there is one question I
have forgotten to ask you."

"Yes, sir."

The young man stood with his hand on the
back of a chair. He was tall of limb, broad
shouldered, bright ohmced, and well featured,
the very picture of a man whom all men
should like, and all women love.

I hope and trust, Val, that you are not
in love ! "

In love ! Good gracious, no, uncle ! "
he answered, laughing heartily. " What on
earth put such an idea into your head ] Do
I look like a love-sick swain ? "

No, no, my boy ; you have never thought
of marriage then ? "

Never. How should I ? I am not in a
position to marry."

No, that is true. Avoid women as you
would the Devil, my boy ; they are the
root of all waste and extravagance. A man
who marries lays the foundation of his own
ruin."

"I have no thought of marrying, uncle,"
answered Val, very seriously, " although I
hope I have not quite so bad an opinion of
the sex as you have. But as I have no
money, no woman would probably desire to
marry me. Moreover, 1 have always believed

myself to be one of the men whose life is
meant to be given to other and higher
thoughts than the love of woman. I am not
destined for the soft and flowery gardens
of existence. Each has his path in life, and
mine is over a stonier track."

It was almost ludicrous to see the fervent
conviction with which this young man spoke
these words. But, naturally, he talked somewhat
above the head of the sordid old miser
whom he was addressing.

"Eh, wdiat ? I don't quite follow your
meaning, nephew ; but, at all events, the
upshot is plain, and you agree with me.
Keep clear of the women ; they play the
very deuce with a man. They want dresses,
and bonnets, and ribbons, and God knows how
many kickshaws ; and they must have their
carriages, and their parties, and if a man
doesn't give it to them he gets called a tyrant
and a monster. No, no, a bachelor's life is the
only one for a sensible man to lead. There
will be always plenty of fools left to people
the earth. A wise man wants to keep his
money himself, not to see it wasted and
squandered on vanities and frivolities that
profit nothing at all."

Then Val was released, and went his way
out of the grim old stone castle across the
fresh green grass and springy heather, with
his rod over his shoulder, down the slope
towards the sparkling waters of the lake.

The blue sky, flecked with feathery clouds.

was above him ; the crisp breeze blew freshly
against his brow, and all God's beautiful earth
was about him, but Yal walked with a downcast
face, and with a mind absorbed in
thought.

He pitied  yes, pitied  that poor old miser
sitting up alone in his house, with his moneybags,
from the bottom of his heart. He wondered
how many years it had taken to dry up
all the fresh, generous impulses of his being,
and to render him the mean-soul ed, sordid-minded
creature he was now ; whether he had
ever, even in early youth, possessed a softer
heart, a wider mind, a more noble nature,
or whether he had been born as he was now 
mean, narrow-minded, selfish, with only one
love in his soul, and that a despicable one 
the love of money. The force of circumstances
had made Val careful of his little
store, and anxious to live honestly within his
small income, paying his way as he went, and
owing no man anything. But the spectacle
of his uncle's miserly nature caused a sort of
reaction in his feelings, the first, perhaps, of
many that were to follow.

P>y Heaven ! " he exclaimed aloud, " if I
were (Oswald, and came into all the old brute s
money, I would sooner spend and slander it
in every direction than become the miserable,
contemptible hoarder that wretched old man
is. Why, they say he has fifteen or twenty
thousand year, and all his life long he has
never benefited one single human being, or
VOL. I. C

done one single good or generous action with
bis wealth ; and he sits there, at the eiid of
his life, unloved and unblest, with his cursed
money hanging about his neck like a millstone,
drao-oino; his soul down ever lower and
lower. I shouldn't wonder now if he buried
it all under the hearthstone and Oswald never
got a penny of it 1 Well, I had sooner be what
I am, a clerk on a hundred and twenty pounds
a-year, than be my uncle with all his money,
and his wickedly profitless life to look back
upon."

<' Mr Valentine Eyre, don't you remember
me  little Betty Ormond, whose doll's eyes
you used to poke out ? You will tumble into
the water if you walk about so absorbed in
meditation. Are you struggling with an epic
poem, or composing your maiden speech for
Parliament when you are returned for the
county ?"

Val looked up suddenly, startled by the
fresh young voice and the mocking words.
He stood, in fact, close to the water's edge ;
and there, just before him in the sunshine,
among the tall-pointed leaves of the arrow-headed
water plants, floated a little boat. The
oars lay white and glistening at rest upon the
surface of the water,  and Betty Ormond
smiled at him not six yards off.

Wait a minute," said Betty, " and I will
take you up in my boat and row you across
the lake."

I came out to fish," said Val.



Never mind. Leave fishing alone ; it's a
cruel sport at which women are cleverer than
men. Get into the boat  steady 1 don't upset
me. Now you shall talk instead of fi&hinof ;
it's far more amusing."

So Val got into the boat.

ON THE LAKE.

SUPPOSE you don't remember
me in the very least ? " said
Betty, when she had safely
shipped her passenger into her
little cockle-shell of a boat.

Oh, yes, I do perfectly," answered Val ;
at least, I remember your sister."

How very Irish ! " laughed Betty, " and
how very far from complimentary ! "

'* I am sure I beg your pardon," said her
companion, blushing up to his eyes. " I am
dreadfully awkward and stupid, I am afraid ;
but, you see, I am so little used to talking to
young ladies."

Oh, don't apologise ; I like it ; it's so
delightfully refreshing. After all, it was a
conceited presumption of mine that you would
remember me, for I know your affections were
always given to Helen ; but I did think that
Araminta, whose blue eyes you so barbarously

reduced to spawning and sightless chasms, in
spite of my despairing shrieks, to say nothing
of tlekn's remonstrances, would have lingered
in your memory."

How is she ? what has become of her ? "
' WhoAraminta ? "

No, Helen  your sister, I mean, of course."
Helen was married a year ago to Sir George
Armstrong ; does that distress you ? "

Not in the very least  why should it ? "
*' I am glad of that," answered Betty, " because
I detest people in love. If you were to
think yourself bound to be melancholy over
Helen, you would not make yourself agreeable
to me, which is what I want you to do."

Valentine Eyre was not at all accustomed
to this kind of liszt badinage. The talk of
the London young lady was bewildering, almost
startling to him ; his answer was perfectly
serious.

I should not have dared to pretend to be
melancholy about your sister. I have never
seen her since she was a child, as you know."
It was Betty 's turn to be surprised.
What an odd man you are ! " she said,
opening her grey eyes at him ; " I don't think
I ever met anyone like you before. Of course
I was only joking. All the same," with a little
smile, that came rippling up from her rosy lips
to her eyes, " I am glad you are not one of
Helen's admirers. You can't think," she went
on seriously, "how sick I got of them before she
married ; there were so many of them, you see."

*' Is she happy ? " asked Val.

Betty shrugged her shoulders.

*' Who knows ? " she said carelessly. " She
ought to be ; she has a brougham and a Victoria,
a house in town, and a place in the
country ; and, oh ! lots of diamonds. When
a woman has all that," she continued, in a
voice that was full of bitter mockery, "it is
her dutij to be happy, is it not ? Her family
are quite satisfied about her. We none of us
make any further inquiries."

Val listened aghast. The contrast between
what he saw, and what he heard, came almost
like a physical shock to him. God's world
about him was so pure and lovely, so at variance
with man's meanness and pettinesses.
The rippling waters of the lake danced about
the boat ; the purple hills mirrored themselves
brokenly on its surface ; the blue heaven,
flecked with white swan's down puffs of cloud,
and brilliant with sunshine, was spread overhead
; the girl herself, who sat opposite him,
was so fresh, so fascinating in her youth and
loveliness  and yet how horrible, how revolting
where the words she had just spoken ! Val
knew too little of the female sex to understand
anything about that strange and perplexing
mania which possesses nine women out of ten 
that of making themselves out to be worse
than they really are  of asserting and affirming
their faith in things which in their hearts
they despise and condemn ; he knew nothing
at all about this curious and inexplicable

moral disease, and his whole generous soul
revolted in horror from what he considered to
be a most terrible degradation of a girl's pure
nature. He had just left the presence of the
mean old miser, whose love of gold had sickened
and disgusted him, and he had turned gladly
and joyfully to the fresh 3'oung face that had
greeted and welcomed him ; and, lo, here it
was a i:ain  this cursed love of Mammon ! only
that it became ten times more hideous and
more frightful as displayed by a lovely young
girl than it was in a decrepid octogenarian.

What you say is very dreadful," he said to
her, gravely and coldly.

'' Dreadful, isn't it ? " answered Betty,
lightly, all unconscious of the tragic impression
her words had made upon her companion ;
" but you see it is the way in which we are all
of us brought up  we girls now-a-days."

Do not say so  pray !" said Val, earnestly,
so earnestly that Betty's eyes, that were wandering
carelessly from the blue sky to her wet
gleaming oars, and from the dancing water to
the purple head of Cragstone scar, came
back suddenly, and with a start to her companion's
face. Val was leaning; forward in the
boat, his handsome face was flushed, his dark
eyes contracted with intensity of feeling.
'* Do not say that  look here ! I am almost a
stranger to you. I shall meet you here for a
few days, perhaps, and then we shall part 
we shall each go our own way ; you back again
to your world of fashion and dissipation, and

I to my lonely life of toil and solitude  we
may never meet again. Yet I, a stranger, one
who is nothing to you, entreat, implore you
to banish these hard, worldly money-loving
thoughts out of your being  now in the first
dawn of your youth and your loveliness  ere it
is too late, and your heart hardens, and you
become like that poor, pitiful old man up yonder,
whose presence I have just left  sordid,
mean-souled, loveless and unloved  a miserable
warning to all who come near him ! Betty
Ormond  little Betty, whom I used to play
with, an innocent little child on the borders
of this very lake  have you left all your purity,
all your candid child-soul far behind you, on
the barren shingle of your early years ?"

Betty listened like one entranced ; the oars
slipped from her hands, and floated idly by
themselves on the surface of the water; she
gazed at the speaker intently, eagerly  her red
lips were parted, her heart beat, her breath
came short and quick.

You care f " she said, in a low wondering
voice, " is it possible that you cave ? Ah ! "
pulling herself up suddenly, and throwing
back her head, *'if men had the courage sometimes
to speak like that to us, how different we
should be, we women !" He saw, to his surprise,
that her eyes were suddenly filled with
tears.

Have I offended you ? have I grieved
you ? " he said, much distressed, and a good
deal puzzled by the variable moods of this

changeable young lady  for the life of him he
could not tell what ailed her ! He touched
her hand timidly, just with the tip of his
finger, as he might have touched an exotic
flower, off which he feared to brush the
bloom. She half laughed, and d]-ew the hand
hastily across her eyes ; and, lo and behold,
the tears vanished ! and they looked at
him ao;ain, filled with nothing' but mocking:
smiles.

Don't make me sentimental ? I should
believe myself in for a serious illness, if I were
to turn lackadaisical ! it would be so unbecoming
too ! Whoever heard of a mrl with a
turn-up nose being sentimental ? It's not at all
in my style, as my aunt says ! You ought to
talk sentiment to Madeline abbott; she would
understand it  you and she would get on
capitally !"

And who is Madeline Abbott ? "

What ! don't you know her ? but you
must have heard of her surely ? "

'* You forget that I know no one," answered
Val. " Who, and what is lie ? "

Ah, I can never describe her  she is perfect
! "

That is saying a great deal," he said,
smiling at her enthusiasm ; " describe her tome
{

How odd that you should not even know
her by sight ! " said Betty. " Not to know
Madeline Abbott argues a lamentable ignorance
of the world ! She is one of the beauties, you

know ; her portrait is in the shop windows ;
her name figures in the ' society ' 2ja}>ers 
people whisper her name and turn back to
stare after her as she passes."

Is she, then, so very beautiful ? " inquired
Val, faintly interested.

She is what is far more to the purpose
now-a-days  she is the fashion ! "

I am certain, then, that I should not care
about your friend, Miss Ormond. A fine lady
of fashion would be rather an object of disgust
than of admiration to me."

Oh, but Madeline is not a fine lady at all,"
interrupted Betty eagerly. " She is so gentle
and womanly, and so free from those mean,
sordid motives you find so disagreeable in me.
And she is so good  too good for the world
she lives in  it is no wonder that people run
after her ; they can no more help admiring her
than they can help admiring a lovely flower,
or a beautiful landscape ; she possesses everything
that is worthy of praise  "

She possesses one good thing at least," said
Val with a smile, " and that is, a very eager
partisan ! You are a good friend. Miss Ormond.
Do you make as good an enemy ? "

I don't know, for I never was tried. 1
hate my Aunt Cornelia, certainly, but I don't
suppose I should have the strength of mind to
murder her, even if I got the chance. I should
like you to know Madeline," she added thoughtfully,
after a pause.

I am not very likely to know her, I am

e.

afraid  in fact, nothing is more improbable
than that I should ever do so."

I am sorry for that."

There was a pause. Long afterwards those
few commonplace words came back to the
memories of them both with a strange distinctness.
Betty could see again the rippling
lake and the green hills  the gloomy old castle
that kejit watch on the one side, and the bluff,
bare front of Cragstone scar on the other,  and
she seemed to hear again that little conversation
about the woman who was far, far away,
and whose name had so oddly become the
theme of their talk. How little either of
them dreamt that that name, so idly spoken,
would have the power one day to thrill
through both their hearts, with the keenness
of actual physical pain ! How oddly
the future is woven up with the present ; how
strange are the small threads that first begin
to spin the great woofs of our life story  unnoted,
unheeded at the time  they stand out
afterwards clearly and plainly to our mental
vision, and we ask ourselves with bitter anguish,
" Why did we not guess  why did we
not foresee it ? " Better, perhaps, that that
power of prevision is denied us, since we can
neither alter nor avert the doom that awaits
us along the path of life.

At that moment these two people, alone
together in a little boat, in that obscure and
far-away corner of the earth, had touched, all
unconsciously, the very key-note of their future

lives ; and yet they knew it not ! Perhaps it
was some subtle influence  some magnetic
current, unknown and unsuspected, that kept
them both absolutely silent for a few minutes,
each absorbed in thought.

The water rippled beneath the bows ; the
breeze caressed their cheeks ; the sunshine
came straightly down upon their young heads ;
far away overhead a huk, invisible in the
brightness of the blue heavens, poured forth
his morning shout of joy, dying away, fainter
and fainter, as he rose.

Higher still and higher
From the earth thou springs
Like a clench of fire,
The blue deep thou wings,
And singing still doest soar, and soaring ever
finest.

Teach fine half the gladness
That thy brain must know,
Such harmonious madness
From my lips would flow,
The world should listen then as I am listening
now,"

quoted Val, as he lay on his back with his
arms stretched up behind his head.

Then Betty, smiling, murmured a line or two
more of Shelley's immortal poem, and thus
Madeline Abbott's name was forgotten, and
she was mentioned no more. The skylark,
floating heavenward, had borne away that
half-glimpse of a fateful futurity upon his
fluttering wings.

The pleasantness and happiest of mornings



must come to an end, and presently Betty
discovered that it was luncheon time, and that
she must go home. Whilst Val recollected
that he had no fish to take hack to the castle.

I shall starve to-day," he said dismally,
as Betty pulled the boat back with a dozen
vigorous strokes to the shore.

Starve ? "

Yes. I was to bring; in a dish of fish for
my uncle's dinner ; failing that, I am under
the impression that he will give me nothing
to eat."

How dreadful ! You should have brought
up a case of potted meats from Forum h
Mason. I have always understood that Mr
Gale starves everybody in his house. Well, if
you are very hungry, poor fellow, you must
come up to the cottage and get something
to eat."

"May I come to the cottage ? Really!"
cried Val, eagerly. " Will Lady Cornelia like
me to come ? "

Well, no, if you ask me, I must candidly
own that my aunt will probably not be glad
to see you," admitted Betty.

Oh ! " in a disappointed tone.

But / shall ! " added Miss Ormond, with
a sudden fish of saucy light in her grey eyes.

Then I will come," said Val, promptly.

Do you know what you will get ?  an
awful snubbing."

I have been snubbed all my life, so that
will not terrify me."

*' She will not be civil to you ; in point of
fact, she will be dreadfully rude, I daresay."

I will win her over by extra politeness."

You couki not do that," said Betty, shaking
her head. " You can't imagine how bad-mannered
these well-bred women can be dien
it suits them to make themselves disagreeable.
I shall stand by, and get hot all over whilst
you are being insulted."

*' As long as you stand by me, I shall not
mind," answered Val, laughing.

Oh, naturally, I shall do that. Are you
not my friend ?"

Am I ? " he repeated softly, whilst a
tender light gleamed for one instant in the
deep-set eyes that were fixed upon her.
Then I shall brave Lady Cornelia," he said
after a moment's pause.

But Betty Ormond hung her head and
answered nothing.

-

IF SHE BE NOT FAIR FOR ME.

LAS ! for Betty, that on that particular
afternoon which Mr Valentine
Ere selected to make his
appearance at her aunt's door,
she should have been sittings talking to old
Betty Crossthwaite about her rheumatism in
the cottage at the bottom of the lane ! And,
alas ! for Val too !

There is a gentleman at the front door,
Jennings," said her ladyship, putting her head
into the passage ; and there was a certain
flutter of excitement in her heart, for visitors
in this remote corner of the world were few
and far between.

Yes, my lady. I think it is Mr Gale's
nephew," answered the discreet and ancient
personage, who, having resided for many
years with Lady Cornelia Fanshawe, had
naturally a fair insight into most of the
family secrets.

Jennings, who was " own maid " to her
lady in more civilised regions, combined a
variety of offices up at the tiny cottage in
Westmoreland. Amongst other things, she
answered the visitor's bell at the front
door.

This reply excited Lady Cornelia still further,
so that it was quite a shock to her when
the name of the poor nephew, instead of the
rich one, struck upon her dismayed ears, for
it was Valentine Eyre who was announced.
She looked up from her everlasting writing at
him, in a manner that was frigid and repellant
in the extreme. Many was the faint-hearted
youth who had in past times been frozen into
ice, and driven to flight by that stony
glance. Even Val, who had been prepared
for it, quailed slightly before her, and was
embarrassed by her greeting.

"I think there must be some mistake," said
Lady Cornelia, coldly " I expected to see
Mr Oswald Power."

*' I am sorry I am not my cousin. He
is not in the north now," answered Val,
smiling.

Oh ! And to what then, sir, do I owe
the honour of this visit % "

Val looked into his hat, and hesitated.

I thought, perhaps  I have been here asa
boy  you were kind enough to ask me. Li
short, Lady Cornelia, I ventured to call to
renew my old acquaintance with you."

Very obliging and good of you, I am

sure," said the lady, whisperingly ; "pray be
seated."

Val sank into the nearest chair, and wished,
if the truth be known, that he could sink into
the floor. He looked round the tiny room ;
there was no sign of Betty.

Miss Ormond," he began, with hesitation.

Miss Ormond is not at home," replied
Lady Cornelia, promptly.

Perhaps she will come in soon ? " hazarded
Val.

I think not. Have you any message to
leave for her, Mr Eyre ? "

Oh, no  not at alL I met her the other
morning on the lake."

"Ohr indeed!"

This was news to Lady Cornelia.

Then there was an awkward silence. The
lady was turning over in her mind how she
could get rid of her visitor  the visitor was
considering how soon he could in politeness
take his departure. Then, not being very
well versed in the ways of the world, Val had
the imprudence again to mention the name of
the absent niece.

*' Miss Ormond was good enough to tell me
that I might call and see you," he said.

Then Lady Cornelia waxed wroth.

"This young man must be snubbed," she
said to herself. " He must be taught his
place once and for all, since that madcap girl
has evidently been foolish enough to encourage
him."

VOL. I. J>

** Am I to understand, Mr  Mr Eyre," said
she, looking at him sharply,  " am I to understand
by your saying you met Miss Ormond
on the lake, that you were in a boat with
her ? "

Valentine shifted uneasily in his chair.

Certainly it was in a boat," he admitted.
Was there any great objection ? "

It was frightfully imprudent ! " exclaimed
Lady Cornelia angrily.

I assure you it was perfectly calm, Lady
Cornelia ! " cried Yal, entirely misunderstanding
her ; " there was merely a ripple upon the
water, and the sky was as clear as midsummer.
Had there been the smallest symptom of a
squall, I should of course have urged Miss
Ormond to put back to land  "

Lady Cornelia made a gesture of impatience.


'' You don't understand my meaning, Mr
Eyre ; I was not alluding to the weather.
You ouo:ht to have recollected that the lake is
in full view of your uncle's house. There
might be many eyes who saw you, and many
tongues that might be ready to repeat that
you spent the morning in a boat with my
niece to your cousin ? "

** To my cousin ?  to Oswald, do you mean?"

Certainly, I do. "Whom else should I
mean ? "

But what has Oswald to say to it ? " said
Yal, much bewildered.

" Well "  and the Lady Cornelia bent her

head to one side with a meaning smile,  "he
might object very much."

There was a silence. What was it that
made Yal's heart go thud, thud so heavily
against his ribs ? Why was there that peculiar
whizzing sensation in his ears, and why did
Lady Cornelia's French clock upon the chime
tick forth the minutes with such
painful and harsh distinctness, so that he
seemed for a few seconds to be conscious of
nothing else ? Val could not have told why
Lady Cornelia's remark produced such a singular
effect upon him. When he spoke his voice
sounded to himself to be hollow and far away,
as if it did not belong to him, and his words
came out disjointed in jerks.

'' Miss Ormond  is engaged  to my cousin
then ? "

Well,"  with another smile, as she
referred to some printed circular she held
in her hand, and jotted off a few names
with her pen,  " well, engaged is a strong
word ; but had you been at all in society
last season, Mr Eyre, you would probably
not have failed to discover that there
was a matrimonial alliance in negotiation
between the two families. These things are
often suT le tapis when they are not openly
talked about ; but amongst well-bred people it
is customary to make mental notes of these situations,
and to order one's actions accordingly."

Then Val arose from his chair, with a bow.

That I was not at all in society last

UNWLKSITY OF ILLIM013

season, Lady Cornelia, must be my apology
for the mistakes into which my ignorance has
led me," he said, gravely.

Going, are you ? " she answered, briskly,
rising to her feet simultaneously with her
visitor. " Well, I am very busy this morning,
so I don't ask you to lunch ; besides, two
women alone are poor company for a man.
Gooc-bye," extending her smooth, infringed
hand, almost with effusion.

Val took the hand, and bowed deferentially
over it.

I am deeply grateful to Lady Cornelia
Fanshawe for the admirable lesson upon good-breeding
which she has been good enough to
give me," said this dreadful young man.

'' Eh, what ? "

She looked up into his face ; not a muscle
of it moved. To this hour Lady Cornelia
never knows if young Eyre seriously intended
what he said with so much earnestness and
gravity, or whether he was not scorching her
with blighting sarcasm in reply to her politeness
concerning the luncheon. She dropped
his hand in a hurry, and allowed him to get
himself to the door before she had sufficiently
recovered from the horrible suspicion called
forth by his words to be able to launch her
parthian arrow at him, 

Any message 1 can give my niece for you,
Mr Eyre ? "

None, thanks," he answered, laconically,
and departed.

He strode away from the tiny cottage in
the green valley, across the crocus-bordered
garden, and out at the white gate on to the
road beyond, with a storm of unreasonable
anger at his heart. Why he was so angry he
would have found it hard to tell. It was not
possible that in one short morning upon the
water of Cragstone Mere he had fallen in love
with Betty. Neither was it to be supposed
that he who had so lately told his uncle, what
was in truth his real conviction, that love and
marriage were things meant for others, and
not for himself, should have formed any deliberate
intention of requesting Miss Ormond
to share his lodging in the Fulham Road, and
the hundred and twenty pounds a-year which
was all that he could call his own. Such a
thought indeed had never entered into his mind.
What had entered therein it would be difficult
to say, but something undoubtedly must have
stirred him strangely, for he walked rapidly
down to the water side, swinging his stick
angrily backwards and forwards, and muttering
in a truly tragical fashion to himself as he
went.

Then suddenly he stopped short, and
laughed aloud to himself

Fool that I am !" he said aloud, flinging
back his head. " What on earth am I loosing
my temper for ? what have I to do with Betty
Ormond and her fortunes, and what more
natural than that my cousin should have
fallen in love with her ? I wonder what made

her aunt so rude to me ? I do not think I can
venture to go there again, for she evidently
took a dislike to me. Val, my boy, you had
better stick to your fishing-rod and leave the
ladies alone ; they are not in your line at all
that is evident ! "

But all day long as he plied his rod upon
the stream, Betty Ormond's face haunted his
thoughts in a manner that was strange and
wholly incomprehensible to our young philosopher.
He thought of her, not with regard
to himself, but with regard to his cousin
Oswald Power, and he began  for her sake,
to take a deeper interest in that young gentleman
than he had ever done before. He recollected
that Oswald was good-natured, and
popular, and much sought after in that world
of London, of which he knew so little. Jt
need not necessarily be his future prospects
that had attracted Betty's fancy. Oswald, he
told himself with an anxiety that was almost
painful, might be easily loved for himself  but
he wished from the bottom of his heart that
Betty had not talked in so mercenary a fashion
to him.

"If ever I am in a position to marry," said
Valentine aloud to myself, " I will take good
care that the woman 1 love is not mercenary
of all hateful and degrading things, the
greed of money is the most abhorrent to me.
The spectacle of this mean, old miser, living
alone and unloved amongst his accumulated
hardiness shall be an everlasting; warning; tome.

And as to a mercenary woman  she is
simply a monster ! " herewith he pulled up a
fine trout, and, in the excitement of sport,
Betty was for the time forgotten.

And yet Valentine was at this time so
exceedingly simple-minded, that it positively
did not strike him that Lady Cornelia's rudeness
to him had been based solely upon his
lowly position in life, and his barren prospects.

Lady Cornelia, so he thought, had taken a
dislike to his appearance or his manners, he
need never see her again, for as Betty was
going to marry Oswald, she would be able, if
she cared to do so, to renew her acquaintance
with him after her marriage. Her marriage !
there came again with that thought a sharp
pang through his heart which he could not
comprehend nor account for, for Val had
never in his whole life, up to this moment,
experienced love's premonitory signs and
symptoms, and he was quite at a loss to
understand his sensations. For what has a
young philosopher, whose worldly income is
one hundred and twenty pounds per annum,
and whose soul is set above common things,
with a proud conviction of its own immeasurable
superiority, what, I say, has such a one todo
with the contemptible concerns of the children
of the world who marry, and are given

in marriage ?

Valentine Eyre was at this period of his
life like the fox in the fable.

** Grapes are very nasty things," said Valentine

when he saw how far out of his reach hung
the purple cluster; " there are a great many
things that are far more profitable to the immortal
mind of man." So he got up and turned
his back upon them, and consoled himself with
his philosophy.

But he went no more to the crocus-gardened
cottage behind the green shoulder of the hill,
lest Letitia Ormond's fairness, that was all for
his cousin Oswald, should trouble the repose
of his souL

THE GAMBLERS DAUGHTER.

;HESTER square, Belgravia, combines
many advantages as a residence,
which render it justly a
popular situation. It hangs on to
the skirts of the world of wealth and fashion
so closely that it may be almost said to be
within that charmed circle ; and, at the same
time, its houses, small, and not exorbitantly
highly rented, are within the scope of many
persons of moderate income who are desirous
of making the most of their means. There is
a flavour of aristocracy about it, and, at the
same time, a due regard to economy is not
foreign to it. It is conveniently near the
underground railway, and not beyond an
easy walk of Hyde Park corner ; the clubs
are accessible from it, and the best shops are
at no insurmountable distance. For all these
considerations, and a few others, Colonel
James Abbott, late of Her Majesty's Dragoon

Guards, had pitched his tent upon the southern
side of this deservedly popular square.

Colonel Abbott had a daughter to marry,
whose face was her fortune, and to whom it
was essential that she should be in the best
society, and go out amongst the best people.
To live at a stone's-throw from their doors
was therefore a necessity to her. It was no
less a necessity to the colonel that he should
be within an easy walk of a certain house in a
certain quiet street that led out of St James'
Street, whither he nightly bent his footsteps,
and by cutting across St James' Park, the
colonel could be upon the doorstep of this
particular house exactly fifteen minutes after
he left his own. Chester Square as a situation
suited the father and the daughter equally well.

Miss Abbott had no carriage, and was
driven frequently by her friends, who were
extremely kind to her in this respect, but
then she lived so close that, as thej said, it
was no trouble to call for her. On days
when she could not make use of her friends'
broughams and Victorias, Miss Abbott put on
her thickest veil, and went forth by the underground
railway to transact her business. She
hated doing it, but still she did it. She rarely
wasted a shilling on a cab, for her shillings
were valuable to her, and she spent as many
of them as she could upon her back. For
good clothes were as good as investments to
Madeline Abbott, whereas cab fares were sheer
waste, and could lead to nothing.

One fine morning, early in May, Colonel
Abbott sat idly in his dan 2; liter's drawings
resting his high white forehead upon his
taper-fingered hand, and occasionally stroking
his silky grey moustache in a meditative
manner.

The Venetian blinds were half drawn down.
White and pink muslin curtains fluttered at the
windows. There was a subdued half light in
the room. The furniture was pretty and well
chosen, but not costly. There were plenty of
bright common flowers in jars and basins upon
the mantlepiece and the tables  daffodils and
jonquils and wallflowers  that Madeline had
purchased for a few pence in the street, but that
were none the less lovely and sweet scented
for that, and that converted the small room
into a very bower of spring-like fragrance.
There was a high Japanese screen half across
the back drawing-room, and a very wide low
sofa in one corner, on which three or four
brig-ht silk cushions, rich with oriental embroidery,
were carelessly flung  altogether
the room looked thoroughly comfortable and
loveable, but there was nothing sumptuous
about it.

The master of the house was a man between
fifty and sixty, who looked older than he was,
from the whiteness of his hair and moustache.
He was still a very handsome man, tall and
slight, with an upright soldiery figure, of which
he was unmistakably vain. He dressed with
scrupulous neatness and exactitude, and was

very particular about the whiteness and stiffness
of his shirt fronts and collars. He was
undoubtedly, as far as his looks went, a father
of whom any young woman might be justly
proud ; and Madeline's devotion to him was a
recognised and well-understood thing amongst
her friends.

At the present moment the colonel is alone,
and evidently in a thoughtful frame of mind ;
but presently the door behind the high Japanese
screen opens softly, and a woman's footstep,
and the subdued rustle of a woman's
skirt, become audible behind him.

The colonel throws up his head without
looking round.

Ha ! Madeline ! is that you ? "

Not gone out, papa ? How is that ? "

My dear, I waited to speak to you. Come
here, my child."

Madeline comes and stands in front of him.
She is beautiful. Tall and well-developed,
with the figure of a Juno, a small head, well
set upon a long full neck, and the most beautiful
shoulders in the world ; her hair is raven
black, her eyes shadowy, and yet luminous as
the night. A woman of strong passions and a
strong will, born to command and to rule. A
woman to whom success is the very breath of
life, to whom failure would be death.

The colonel looks up at her as she stands
before him. His white hands fall nervously
together upon his knees, his face assumes a
doubtful, wavering expression ; it is easy to

c*>

see now which of the two is the master-mind.


You have had bad luck ag-ain," says
Madeline shortly.

My dear  I  " he hesitates.

This is the third day running," she continues,
with a certain merciless hardness.

*' I know  I know," he answers weakly.
It's the fortune of war, my dearest. One
can't always be in luck. I shall do better tonight,
no doubt. No great harm done  the
stakes were small. I feel I shall do better
to-night."

I doubt it," answers Madeline coldly.
Your hands are trembling, your nerves are
shaken  wait." She took a key from her
watch chain and opened a small ebony inlaid
cabinet, and rapidly poured out some drops
out of a phial that stood Within upon the
shelf. '' Here, drink this," she said, handing
to him, " and for Heaven s sake learn to
control yourself  even when we are alone."

And as the handsome colonel took the wineglass
from his daughter's hand and drained it
eagerly, it was easy to guess at the skeleton in
that well-ordered household in Chester Square.
The father dio, in public, was the polished
courtier, the gallant, high-minded old soldier,
the idolised father of his only child, in the
abandon of private life, when all these beautiful
theories were for a moment laid aside,
appeared in his true colours, and became himself
 an inveterate, and not always a successful,

gambler, whose unholy gains were the
sole source of income upon which both father
and daughter depended.

"There, now, you look better again," said
Madeline, as she took the empty glass from
his hand. " Do not lose your pluck, my
dear father. If you had been utterly broke
you couldn't have looked worse."

'* I am pretty near it, or shall be, unless my
luck turns," he grumbled. 'rand that brings
me to what I wanted to say to you. How is
your little speculation going on, Madeline \ "

Madeline stood at the cabinet, replacing the
glass and the bottle, and locking up the double
doors with her little gilded key. For a
moment or two she made no answer, then,
rather slowly and almost reluctantly, she
spoke, 

'' Well, I am afraid I have nothing much to
report as yet ; these things take time, you
know."

Colonel Abbott laughed.

*' You have had no luck either, then ? "

I have had no reverse of luck," she
answered ; " this kind of business is not to be
done ill a day ; the season is only just beginning,
and besides, one has to be very careful
 nothing can be gained by precipitation,
and every thing might be lost."

*' I wish sou would explain yourself more
clearly," said her father irritably. " Why
can't you speak out instead of hinting and
insinuating ?"

*' I have no wish to conceal anything from
you, papa," replied Madeline calmly, stooping
over a vase full of jonquils, and rearranging
their waxen heads with her delicate fingers,
that were white and tapering like her father's.
I am not going to engage myself to Mr Power
until I am quite certain that he gets his uncle's
money."

Pshaw ! that is splitting straws indeed !
Why, that is a certainty."

I prefer to wait and see."

*rand meanwhile, if the luck goes on
against me, we shall be in a nice hole ! I
can't go on entertaining and paying for dresses
if it's all to lead to nothing. Why, you maj
wait for years before you can know for certain
whether Oswald Power gets his uncle's
money ! "

I think not. I have reason to believe
we shall know it very soon."

*' What makes you say that ? " asked her
father, quickly.

The uncle is dying."

No  really ? How on earth did you learn
that''

"Well," replied Madeline, smiling, "there
is a girl of the name of Bella Malsham  "

Yes, and a very second-rate sort of girl,
too. I have always wondered, Madeline,
what on earth ever made you take up with her."

Well, now you know," answered Madeline,
smiling; still, "Bella Malsham's father is Mr
Gale's solicitor."

Colonel Abbott drew a Ion 2 breath.

By Jove ! Madeline, you are as clever as
the Devil ! "

And she tells me there is another nephew''
continued Madeline serenely.

Her father nodded in silent approval.

** The worst of it is," he observed, '' that
these old men often take a long time to die 
they are as tough as nails  and meanwhile  "

Meanwhile, Oswald Power has a certain
amount of ready money, whilst we have
none."

'* Exactly," replied her father, dryly.

Madeline moved for a few moments softly
about the room, taking up first one ornament
and then the other.

"That being the case," she said presently,
holding up a favourite Sevres cup against the
light as though to admire its exquisite transparency,
and then dusting it tenderly with her
little embroidered handkerchief, " that beinor
the case, dearest papa, why have you never
given Oswald Power supper at the ' Octopus ' ? "

Colonel Abbott started  a dark red colour
flushed suddenly up to his forehead  he looked
at his daughter with a deep admiration mingled
with astonishment.

By Jove ! " he ejaculated again below his
breath, and seemed incapable of another word.

Ready money is a bad thing for young
men," continued Madeline airily, still dusting
her pet cup with affection.

*' But  but  " gasped her father, " you

might marry him. You surely don't want
him rooked first ? "

Then Madeline dashed down the Sevres cup
upon the nearest table with such force that it
was a marvel she did not break it  and she
frowned heavily and angrily.

Papa ! " she cried indignantly, " I will not
have you use such a low gentlemanlike
word ! You ought to be ashamed of yourself
to sav such a thing; about a dear friend !  even
in joke  of course it was a joke, I know  but
it's a horrible kind of joke, so pray don't
repeat it."

What the devil do you want to keep
the spangles on for when we are alone ? "
grumbled her parent.

Spangles are very pretty things," replied
his daughter more calmly, " and often answer
the purpose of diamonds admirably well''

There was a little silence between the two,
then Colonel abbott inquired mildly as one
who might be rehearsing a lesson, 

Do you think, then, that Oswald Power
would like to have supper some night at the
Octopus ' ? "

Now the " Octopus " was the name of that
particular club of a small and private nature,
near St James' Street, where Colonel Abbott
was wont to bend his nocturnal footsteps.
Madeline's smile was charming in its frank
candour.

1 should think he would be delighted, dear
papa ; we entertain in such a small way, you

VOL. I. E

know  we have so little to offer in return to
our friends  and Mr Power has been so kind
I have driven so often on his coach, and he
sends us so much game in the winter. I am
really quite ashamed to think how little we are
alle to repay these civilities ; it would be a
little attention, you know."

Quite so, my dear." Both father and
daughter had donned the spangles by this
time. " I quite understand ; but I hardly ever
see Oswald Power now to ask him."

'stop and have lunch, dearest papa. I
have some plovers' eggs  your favourite dish
and no end of good things, and Mr Power
has promised to lunch with me ; it will be an
additional pleasure to him to meet you here.
Ah ! here, I think, he comes."

The door opened, and from behind the
Japanese screen Oswald Power walked into
the room.

A TETE-astute DINNER.

E OSWALD Power was a young
gentleman who, from no particular
merit of his own, had for some
years enjoyed the sweets of life to
a very high degree. In person he was short
and broad-shouldered, with a round, rubicund
face, and pale blue eyes, that were good-natured
but not particularly intelligent in
expression, and a smile whose vapidity was
fortunately much concealed by a bushy auburn
moustache. His mind was neither well educated
nor original, nor was his conversation in
any way brilliant or remarkable. And yet he
was, or seemed to be, a general favourite. The
best houses were open to him  the best people
received him with open arms ; he had friends
without number ; his table was littered with
invitation cards, and he could have enjoyed
any amount of hunting, shooting, and fishing
at his friends' houses, had he chosen to do so,

without ever paying a farthing for any of it.
But, in truth, Oswald Power availed himself
but little of these proffered delights ; he was
a bad shot, an indifferent rider, and he preferred
to linger over a cup of tea in a lady's
boudoir to all the best sport which the British
dominions had to offer to him.

The secret of his popularity was, no doubt,
his brilliant prospects, about which he made
no secret at all  he was sole heir to a millionaire,
who was at the same time an octogenarian.
So ran the story. He was  or would be
shortly  one of the richest commoners in England,
who, therefore, was likely to care or consider
that his person was mediocre, and his
intelligence below the average ! Meanwhile,
neither was Oswald by any means a pauper 
he inherited from his parents a fortune of eight
hundred a year, upon which he managed to
make a very good display indeed. He had
rooms in Clarges Street, kept a brougham,
gave little dinners to ladies at Buckingham,
or at the Orleans Club, sent about a good
many bouquets and parcels of ten-buttoned
gloves ; and he had even started a coach,
which he drove very badly, in order that
he might make himself thoroughly popular
with the fair sex.

Oswald Power was always falling violently
in love ; unfortunately, or fortunately for the
objects of his attachment, the attacks of the
malady to which he so often succumbed were,
although very severe, remarkably short, so that

they never seemed to end in anything. Before
he had reached a satisfactory climax with one
lovely woman, he would catch a glimpse of
another who seemed to surpass her in beauty
instantly his volatile heart would fly off at
a tangent, and precipitate itself headlong at the
feet of th fresh attraction, until she again,
in her turn, would be displaced by some other
novelty. In this way Oswald kept hope alive
in the hearts of a great many mothers and
damsels, and, at the same time, preserved his
own freedom intact. Once, and once only, had
his fancy been of a deeper and more lasting
nature, and that was last season, when for
three whole months he had pursued Letitia
Ormond, and in the end had actually proposed
to her, and  had been refused ! After that
unexpected slap in the face he was brokenhearted
 for a month ! grew thin, and was
unable to do justice to his dinner, until,
burying the secret of his failure in his o'n
breast, he went abroad for change of air
and scene. There he fell in with an Italian
countess, for whose fair sake Betty was soon
forgotten ; but as the Italian lady could not
speak English, and Oswald knew very little
Italian, that flirtation came speedily to an end,
so that when he reappeared in Charges Street,
early in the spring, the field of his affections
was again quite clear for a new competitor ;
and this time he fell iu love with Madeline
Abbott. And Madeline knew what she was
about. She was clever, far cleverer than any

woman lie had ever met hitherto, and she was
well aware of the prize that had fallen into her
hands. She set herself to work to befool him
as he had never been fooled before. She
led him on by a hundred arts and devices ; she
bewildered him with her beauty ; she turned
his head with her sweetness and graciousness
at times she froze him with her coldness ;
at times she tantalised him almost to madness.
But she kept him, and she slowly but surely
drove him on. Then came Bella Malsham's
revelation concerning the second nephew  and
all of a sudden Madeline stayed her hand, and
suspended all her tactics. Was it possible
that her pains and her time should become
wasted ? that all those little lunches and dinners
which had been so frequently spread for
him in Chester Square were to have been in
vain ? But no ; Madeline was determined
that, whatever might be the ultimate issue, her
labours should not be altogether thrown away
if he could not be used in one way he should
be in another ; meanwhile, she kept back her
cards and waited  and her game became very
difficult, indeed, to play. For it had come to
this, that Oswald pressed for an answer, and
Madeline put him, ofi' from day to day without
one.

When he came into the drawing-room at
Chester Square, his eyes rested one moment in
disappointment upon the figure of Colonel
Abbott, and then sought hers in reproach. He
had expected to find her alone.

But Madeline came forward and greeted
him with such charming enthusiasm in her
face and manner, that he had not the heart to
be annoyed with her.

Ah, how good of you to remember my
little lunch ! " she cried, giving both her
white hands into his.

Do you suppose I could forget ? " he
murmured, gazing rapturously into the
shadowy depths of her beautiful eyes,
which, because she was tall for a woman and
he short for a man, were upon a level with
his own.

Ah, all you men are so changeable ! " she
said, lightly dropping her eyes, with becoming
modesty, under his ardent gaze. 'there, for
instance, is papa, who ought to have been at
his publishers, by appointment, at least an
hour ago."

Colonel Abbott had a fluent pen, and
scribbled off a military biography occasionally,
an occupation which his daughter made the
very most off.

' Here is this naughty papa, who has actually
declared he would stay at home to meet
you at lunch ! " And Madeline looked penitently
at her suitor, as though to say,  " It is
not my fault, he would stay to spoil our '


Naturally, he forgave her.

** I so seldom now have the pleasure of meeting
you, Power," said the colonel, in his best
company manner. ** I thought perhaps you

and my girl would not object to an old fellow's
society."

*' My dear sir."

And I wanted to ask you to do me a great
favour and kindness," continued the colonel.

I  I am sure anything I could do, I should
be only too delighted," responded Oswald, with
a rapid mental wonderment as to whether his divinity's
father wanted to borrow money of him.

The fact is, I have a young friend up in
town for a few days  young Heninker ; you
don't happen to know him, do you ? " with a
quick glance.

Young Heninker was an habitue of the Octopus,
and did not enjoy a very good reputation,
even in that choice and select community.

Oswald said " No ; he had never met him."

Ah ! well, his father was an old friend, an
old comrade of mine, and I have asked him to
supper with me to-night at my little club  a
quiet, little place. Power  and if you would
do me the kindness to join us ? "

My dear colonel, of course ; the kindness
is all on your side," cried Oswald heartily.
The only thing is  " and he looked doubtfully
at Madeline  " I should like nothing
better ; but I really don't know whether I
ought  whether it would be considered indecorous.
The fact is, that 1 have just received
news of my uncle's death."

Quick as thought, the eyes of the father
and daughter met in one telegraphic flash of
comprehension.

In the father's eyes was an inquiry ; in the
daughter's an assent.

"Dear, dear  how very sad ! " murmured
Madeline ; and she sat down, but not a muscle
of her face altered.

You will have to go to the funeral, Power ?"
inquired Colonel Abbott, with kindly concern.

'' Oh, of course, and to the readiuof of the
will ; but I need not leave town till Thursday
night. He will not be buried till Saturday."

"I do not see that it need prevent your
supping with me to-night, in a quiet way,"
said the colonel.

Oswald seemed to hesitate. No doubt, a
certain affectation of grief at the death of a
relative, whose wealth was so greatly to enrich
him, would be becoming, and the temptation
of a supper with the colonel was not perhaps
excessive, under the circumstances ; Colonel
Abbott glanced at his daughter, and Madeline
took in the situation, and rushed into
the breach.

Now, that is too unkind of you, papa, to
give horrid men supper parties, in which I
cannot join ! If Mr Power accepts your invitation,
I must positively insist upon his
dining here with us first."

My dear, I'm dining with General Prayed
at the Pag "

This, of course, Madeline knew beforehand.

Oh, what a pity ! But then," said Madeline,
with her sweetest smile and an upward
glance of her beautiful eyes, that sent the

hood in a whirligig to the young man's brain,
*then have pity on my solitude, and come
and dine with me alone at eisfht. I will send
you on to join papa at ten."

*' Or rather, I will call for you here,"
amended the colonel, quickly.

And so the bait havens been made attractive
enough, Oswald fell into the trap, and
consented.

At that tete-astute dinner, Madeline strained
her powers of fascination to their very utmost.
She knew now that in a few days, a week at
the longest, her fate would be decided with
regard to this man. At this very time, indeed,
he was either one of the richest men in
London, and her own future husband, or else
he was to count as nothing to her for evermore.

It behoved her, therefore, to be wary and
cautious ; she must establish her power over
him entirely, and yet she must not yet resign
her own freedom, or give him a word which
she would find it afterwards difficult to withdraw.


She had put on a dark, ruby-coloured dress,
cut low at the neck, and displaying to the
utmost advantage the exquisite fairness of
her cream-white skin ; diamonds glittered
in her black hair, and a row of single pearls
were clasped closely round her full throat.
There was a dangerous softness in her eyes,
an unwonted tenderness in her voice, a certain
languor in her attitudes, that stole over his
senses and bewildered him, like a draught of

honey-sweet poison. All the surroundings, too,
of her little dinner-table were in keeping with
the fascination of her presence. The shaded
lights upon the table, the flowers with which
it was adorned, the dainty, well-chosen dinner,
the wine that was of the best, all added
to the subtle charm that surrounded this
woman, and rendered her society charming to
him ; for Madeline was too thoroughly versed
in the management of her victims to neglect
one single detail that could serve in the remotest
decree to strengthen her bold over
them.

But though she had laid herself out to
charm him, she was cruelly anxious. She
could not, indeed, forbear from alluding to
the subject that was uppermost in her mind.

There will be nobody at your uncle's
funeral but yourself, I suppose ? "

Oh, nobody. It will be a horrible business."


You have a cousin, have you not ? " inquired
Madeline, intent apparently upon her
rissole, and speaking in the most careless and
unconcerned manner  "at least somebody
told me so, I think."

"Oh, poor young Eyre, you mean ? Yes.
Do you know I am ashamed to say how little
I know him. It must be two years since I
have spoken to him ; but then he is a clerk
or something in a city office, and goes nowhere
and knows nobody. What can one make of a
fellow of that sort, you know ? It's no kindness

to ask him to dinner ; he is out of everything,
like a fish out of water."

He is not likely, I suppose, to come in for
any of your uncle's money ? " said Madeline,
sipping her champagne with the air of a connoisseur.
" Do you not think this wine
rather too dry ? "

'' Not at all ; it's excellent  just what I
like. AVhat were we talking of? Oh, poor
Val Eyre. Oh no, poor beggar ! 1 wish he
might get a legacy ; tut I am afraid he hasn't
a chance. My poor uncle had a grudge
against his father and mother. I don't think
he has even seen Val for years. I must look
him up, poor chap, and see if I can do anything
for him."

'' That will be kind of you," answered
Madeline, helping herself to a Caille en Aspic.

It was evident that Oswald had no fears
with regard to his cousin ; but it was evident
also that he was in ignorance of a fact which
Madeline had learnt from Bella Malsham, that
Valentine Eyre had spent ten days at Crag-stone
Edge only this very Easter ! These
things made Madeline thoughtful and slightly
preoccupied.

When the servant had left them alone,
Oswald Power began to speak of the subject
nearest his heart.

He put forth his hand timidly across the
corner of the table and laid it upon her wrist.

Madeline," he said softly, " are you going
to give me your answer to-night ? "

She did not move her hand, but her eyes
fell.

"You must not be angry with me," she
murmured.

'angry''

And you must have patience," with a
smile.

"And have I not been patient ? Oh, Madeline,
surely I have earned my reward ? "

Then she withdrew her hand suddenly, and
shaded her eyes with it. The action was as
though she wished to hide some emotion 
that of weathering; tears  from his sio-ht.

"'Do not blame me. I have not yet dared
to break it to my father. I have not had the
opportunity. If you understood the way in
which he worships me ! It would break his
heart to think of parting with me. Poor
father, if you knew what a bitter blow it
would be to him, and how hard I find it to
bring him such a grief ! "

"But indeed I do know; I do understand.
Does not everybody see and admire your
perfect devotion to your father ? Dearest, if
I were to hurry you I should be brutal indeed.
Only say that you love me, and I will be content
to wait. '

But she would not say it  not in words 
only she flashed one bewildering look into his
eyes that seemed to him in his infatuation to
be an all-sufficient answer.

I had hoped to have secured your promise
to-day," he said caressingly ; " but never

mind, I will be patient still, my queen, and
wait for you ; and now I am bolder to offer
you all I have, for I feel that, with the wealth
which I shall inherit from my poor uncle, I
can lavish on you everything that money can
give. There is nothing on earth that my
Madeline shall not have."

She turned on him for a moment with
flashing eyes.

You do not think that I should be influenced
by that ? You do not think that I am
so mean  so mercenary ? "

"No, no ! God forbid ! " he continued hastily,
believing her from the bottom of his heart.
I know that to you such a thought has
never come ; but it will be a happiness to me
to be rich for your sake."

How sweet were these promises to her ears !
If only the uncle's will was as it should be 
ah, if only ! She remembered the other
nephew with a shiver, and turned the conversation
out of this too dangerously sentimental
channel.

Upstairs she sang to him, with a rich contralto
voice, scraps of Italian songs or plaintive
German airs. He sat behind her and listened
as in duty bound ; but he did not care much
about music, and would sooner have talked
to her ; but Madeline knew wdiat she was
about, and considered that there had been
talking enough. A week would decide everything
now, and then, if all went well, she
would keep him at arm's-length no longer.

Meanwhile music was useful. If a lady-volunteers
to sing to a man, he is bound to
listen to her ; he can do no less, but he can
do no more.

Oswald lay back in a low chair, smoked his
cigarette, feasted his eyes upon Miss Abbott's
perfect profile, and was silent. And then, in
an incredibly short space of time, the tete-astute
to which he had looked forward so rapturously
was at an end, and Colonel Abbott came into
carry him off to his supper-party at the
Octopus.

We weill have just a quiet rubber first, ora
little game of cartes' said the colonel, in his
pleasant, friendly way, " just to give one an
appetite for supper, you know."

With all my heart, sir ; but I'm a poor
hand at cards," answered Oswald, readily.

Oh, for the matter of that, so am I, my
dear fellow. I don't profess to play well at
all. In fact, it's very good of anybody to take
a hand with me. Now, let us be off. Goodnight,
my dearest child ; go and get some
beauty-sleep. We mustn't allow your roses
to fade, must wee, my pet ? "

A fond embrace passed between the father
and daughter, which Oswald Power, standing
by, watched with eyes of admiration and sympathy.
Surely so good a daughter would make
a dear, good wife 1 And then he pressed her
extended hand, and, with one glance of deep
love and devotion, followed her father from
the room.

I.eft alone, Madeline had no tlioiiglits of
going to bed. She replenished the fire ; went
upstairs and divested herself of her handsome
dress and her diamond ornaments ; then wrapping
a loose, warm tea-gown round her, came
down again into the drawing-room, turned up
the lamp, rang the bell, and told the servants
to go to bed, and settled herself with a novel,
and her feet on the fender, to await her father's
return.

And the hours went by slowly and silently
into the early morning. The fire went out,
but it was warm, and she had only needed it
for company's sake. Her novel slipped down
from her knees on to the floor, and she did
not take the trouble to pick it up. She
yawned, stretched her arms up over her head,
and sat watching the clock.

She wondered what was going on, and
shivered a little as the thought came across
her that her father's luck might be bad
again. He was very late  later than usual.
Now and then a carriage went swiftly by,
or a sharp, lonely footstep rang along the
pavement, then all was still again. At last
a sound caught her ear  the small, scraping
click of a key in the latch of the door. At
last ! She sprang to her feet, and went to the
top of the stairs.

Her father was coming up. He was flushed,
and a little disordered in his dress, but there
was a look of triumph in his eyes.

Well ? " she said, breathlessly.

All right," he answered, laconically.

How much ? "

Five thou."

Did he did he mind ? "

Pooh ! not a rap. What's that to an
income of twenty thousand a-year ! "

Yes, if he gets it."

Oh, he seems sure enough. Good heavens,
how tired I am ! It's been hard work, I can
tell you."

Will he pay up ? "

"Oh, of course. I've given him a week.
Good-night, my child."

Good-night, papa."

VOL. I.

HOW VAL TOOK THE NEWS.

Valentine Eyes came rushing
into Mr Malsham's office in the
City one morning about a week
later, considerably out of breath.
An unusual thing had happened to him ; he
was twenty minutes behind his time. It was
a wet morning, and he had come by the
underground railway. There had been a
slight breakdown on the line, and the trains
had been delayed. Valentine, who knew that
Mr Malsham was extremely particular about
the punctuality of his clerks, was in no way
surprised to be met upon his arrival by a request
that he would at once go into the solicitor's
private room.

I know I'm horribly late," he said to his
fellow clerk. " It's not my fault, though ;
the train was delayed. Is Mr Malsham very
angry?"  [

*'No, I don't think he is angry," answered

his fellow clerk, a youth who had sandy hair
and a turn-up nose, and a peculiar fondness
for nuts, which he kept continually in his
pocket, and cracked at all times and seasons
with his teeth. " He didn't seem angry at
all. He only said you were to go in to him
the instant you arrived."

Not without trepidation, Valentine passed
through the outer office, and knocked at his
employer's door. In his hurry he did not
even hang up his hat upon its accustomed
peg, but carried it in his hand. It was a
shabby hat, but its shabbiness was slightly
concealed by a narrow hatband which, upon
hearing from Mr Malsham of the death of his
uncle, some vague feeling of respect and regret
for the old miser who had passed away had
made him get.

After all, he was my mother's brother,"
he had said to himself, as he turned into a
hatter's in the Strand, so that this trivial sign
of mourning; mio;ht be affixed to his attire.

He carried it now in his hand, as he knocked
at Mr Malsham's door.

As he entered the room, he became immediately
aware that the solicitor was not alone.
A gentleman, of a florid complexion, and with
very black hair and whiskers, rose from the
further side of Mr Malsham's table, and made
him a low bow. This struck Valentine as
something ludicrous, and the idea went through
his mind that the gentleman was mistaking
him for some one else. However, he was so

intent upon making his apology to his employer,
that he troubled himself no further
concerning the presence of the stranger.

I am extremely sorry to be so late, Mr
Malsham," he began hurriedly; 'but I can
assure you that it was not my fault at all. I
came by the underground railway, and the
trains were all delayed by a slight accident  "

My dear young friend, pray do not apologise.
What can it signify ? " and to Val's
astonishment, Mr Malsham walked across the
room and shook hands with him.

Ever since his visit to Cragstone Edge, Mr
Malsham had certainly been much more civil
and gracious to his junior clerk; but that he
should condescend to come forward and shake
hands with him was something; so extraordinary
that Valentine could only be silent from
sheer astonishment.

Let me introduce you to Mr Gilfillan, of
Carlisle  a great friend of your late uncle's 
who is most anxious to make your acquaintance
; " and here Mr Gilfillan too came forward
and shook hands with him, with absolute effusion.
'' Sit down, sit down, my dear Mr
Eyre," and Mr Malsham actually pushed forward
his own leathern arm-chair from its place,
and gently pressed his young clerk into it.
Mr Gilfillan and I wish to speak to you upon
a most important matter."

Yes  please explain," murmured Val.

"You know, my dear Mr Eyre, that I returned
late last night from Westmoreland, where I

went upon a most melancholy occasion  your
poor uncle's funeral."

**Mr Eyre ought to have been there himself,"
said Mr Gilfillan, in a gruff, blunt voice ;
*' he should have been there."

Certainly, certainly, so he would have
been ; but our late dear friend was a most
eccentric person, as you, my dear boy," half
turning to Valentine, " must know. And he
left, in a private letter of instructions to me, a
special desire that nobody should attend his
funeral but myself and Mr Gilfillan, who is
co-trustee and executor with myself of his
estate."

*' Was not my cousin there ? " asked Valentine,
in surprise.

No ; Mr Power was not present. He
wished to come very properly  ahem  was
desirous of showing all respect and so forth ;
but after I had read your uncle's private letter,
I telegraphed to him at once not to come. No,
my dear boy, Mr Gilfillan and myself alone
followed the mortal remains of your poor dear
uncle to their last resting-place."

Mr Malsham bowed his head, as though
troubled with emotion, and was silent. There
was a pause. Val, in fancy, was away up among
the Westmoreland hills  he seemed to see, before
his eyes, the frowning grey stone tower,
and the long white road by the side of the
rippling lake, along which the melancholy little
funeral cortege must have wound its slow way
to the churchyard, far away upon the brown

86 Pure Gold.

woodside under Gravestone rock. Fitting end
to a loveless life ! he thought sadly, that such
a one as Michael Gale should not have cared
to have one of his own kith and kin  only
these two strangers  to follow him to his


Then Mr Gilfillan's voice broke in upon the
silence, gruffly prosaic.

And after the funeral we read the will,"
he said, briefly.

Valentine started. Since he had heard of
his uncle's death he had not given one thought
to his uncle's money, save to wonder once or
twice, rather sadly, how soon now his cousin
would marry Betty Ormond ; and if ever, in
this new relationship to himself, he would
come across her again.

But now something peculiar in the looks
which the two elder men bent upon him,
struck him suddenly with a sense of bewilderment.
Why did they look at him with that
deferential expectant manner, as though they
waited for him to ask a question ? Something
startled him into a sudden excitement.

What is it ? " he said, looking from one to
the other. '' Why do you both look at me so
strangely ? Have you anything to tell me ? "

My dear young friend," said Mr Malsham,
in his most mellifluous tones, " you must prepare
yourself for a change  a wonderful change
in your fortune ; and I hope you will never
cease to remember, in your prosperity, that I
have been your true and constant friend during

the years of your adversity  that I have given
you counsel and employment ; and that Mrs
Malsham has invited you to her house."

'rand I hope and trust, sir,"  here interrupted
Mr Gilfillan, rising and taking the
young man by the hand  " that you will not
withdraw your account from my house  I'm
a banker in Carlisle, sir  and for five-and-fifty
years your late uncle has banked with
me and with my father before me, and I trust
that you will extend to me the same confidence
which he was good enough to repose in my
bank."

Valentine looked from one to the other in
absolute bewilderment. Whilst each was
urging some personal claim upon him, he
himself was in ignorance of the drift of their
words.

He rose suddenly to his feet and shook himself
free of them both.

Tell me ! " he cried, " what is it ? What
has happened ? Has my uncle, by any
wonderful chance, left me a legacy ? "

'* A legacy ! " repeated Mr Malsham with a
smile. " He has left you an estate."

He has left me Crag-stone Edo-e ! " cried
Val, with a flush. " Oh, how glad I should be
of that ! " For the old tower in the north had
struck a cord of sympathy in his heart. If it
were his owen, Valentine felt he could love it
and live in it  its solitude and its sadness
agreed well with his own silent, self-contained
nature. Oh, yes, if Michael Gale had left

him Cragstone Edge, he would be grateful indeed
to him.

Mr Gilfillan coughed behind his hand.

*' Cragstone Edge would be of small value
by itself," he said, dryly ; " though no doubt
it is left to you, Mr Eyre. It comes in with
the Westmoreland estates, which are of no
great remunerative worth ; but there is beside
the Yorkshire estate  "

And the Lancashire property, which comprises
two-thirds of the town of Preston," put
in Mr Malsham.

** And the Cumberland estate, which includes
a vast tract of coal," remarked Mr
Gilfillan.

And coal property in Durham and Derbyshire
; besides five thousand acres near Inform,
in Lincolnshire," murmured Mr Malsham.

"And a considerable accumulation in the
funds," added Mr Gilfillan, " in short, Mr
Eyre, Mr Malsham and myself have endeavoured
to break the truth to you gently,
fearing that too sudden a revelation of your
good fortune might be too much for you;
but the long and short of the matter is,
that Mr Michael Gale has constituted you his
sole heir."

Valentine turned very ]Dale and sat down.

It's impossible ! " he said, turning to Mr
Malsham. " It can't be right, you know 
there's my cousin."

Mr Malsham shrugged his shoulders.

*' Your cousin, Mr Eje, had the ill fortune

to offend your uncle  you, on the contrary,
had the good fortune to please him. The consequence
is that, after your recent visit to him,
Mr Gale tore up his last will and wrote instructions
to me to draw up a fresh one, leaving
everything to you instead of to Oswald
Power. This will was only completed ten
days ago, and was signed by your uncle the
very day before he died  "

*' But has he left Oswald nothing ?  nothing
at all f " repeated Valentine, incredulously.

Not a brass farthing ! " replied the solicitor,
with another shrug of his shoulders.

What a shame !  what a wicked shame ! "
cried Valentine, indignantly, flushing hotly
with wrath.

The two elder men exchanged glances.
This was certainly a singular fashion in
which to take the announcement of great
wealth.

I call it infamous ! " cried Valentine, excitedly,
pacing up and down the room. " My
cousin has been taught to consider himself my
uncle's heir  he has been brought up with that
idea. Something; must be done  cannot the
will be disputed or something ? "

Mr Malsham all but burst out laughing;.

*' I don't see how you are to dispute a will
made in your favour. Your cousin might do
so, but he wouldn't have a leg to stand upon.
I drew up the will myself; it was all in
proper order, and was correctly signed and
attested."

Then I must do something. Give him
something  make him an allowance  he must
have the half of it. How much is it, by the
way {

He stopped short, and confronted the two
executors.

Well, we cannot exactly tell you at present.
Everything, of course, will have to
be gone into," said Mr Gilfillan, cautiously.
But I should say that your uncle's estate
ought to bring in an income of between twenty
and thirty thousand a-year."

Valentine groaned.

"What on earth am I to do with it? I
don't want it. I must give half of it to
Oswald Powder."

You can do as you like, of course, Mr
Eyre," said Mr Malsham, rather coldly ; " but
if you will allow me to say so, I think all
such ideas are rather Quixotic. Your cousin
is not a pauper ; why" should he accept money
at your hands ? His father left him an independent
fortune, and had Mr Gale made
him his heir, instead of yourself, do you
imagine for one moment that he would have
relinquished any portion of it to you ? "

Valentine appeared to be rather struck with
this. He paced the room once or twice in
silence. No, certainly, he reflected, Oswald
Power, who, all these years, had done nothing
for him  had not even troubled himself
to inquire whether he was alive or dead 
certainly he could not imagine for an instant

that had all this money gone to him he would
have remembered to better, in ever so small
a decree, the fortunes of the cousin whose
existence he had so persistently ignored.

But then there was Betty Ormond ! Betty,
whom he was going to marry, and who loved
money, and for her sweet sake surely something
could be done. He turned round, and
paused in his troubled walk.

Have you any instructions that you wish to
give me ? " inquired Mr Malsham, deferentially.

The queerness in the sudden change of their
positions hardly seemed to strike the clerk
and his master, so soon does the human mind
accommodate itself to fresh conditions of life.

Yes," replied Valentine, and glanced at
Mr Gilfillan.

The banker rose at once, pleaded another
engagement, and took his leave.

"Now, my dear boy, that we are alone,
what do you wish me to do for you ? " said
Mr Malsham, with an increased affability of
manner. " A little advice, no doubt, from an
old and valued friend."

I want you to draw up a will," said Yal,
shortly.

*' A will ? " repeated the solicitor, doubtfully.

Yes ; my will. There can be no difficulty,
I suppose ? "

Oh dear, no ; none in the world, of course,
if you wish it. But are you not rather in a
hurry ? "

Not at all. Life is uncertain, and there

is no time like the present. Do you wish to
take my instructions, Mr Malsham ? "

Insensibly Yal's manner was that, not of a
clerk to his master, but of a wealthy client to
his obsequious man of business.

Mr Malsham sat down in his chair of office,
and took up his pen.

If you will kindly allow me to jot down
your directions, a will shall be prepared according
to your instructions as Quickly as
possible."

It will be very short. I wish to leave
everything to Oswald Power."

But he is older than you are ; he weill
probably not survive you."

Then his children are to inherit ; and I
wish to settle forty thousand pounds absolutely
upon his wife the day that he
marries her."

'but," cried Mr Malsham, in despair, "he
is not married ! and you may marry yourself ! "

I shall never marry ; put that down,
please."

Is there nothing; else ? Who are to bethe
executors ? "

Yourself and Mr Gilfillan."

''No legacies?"

A thousand pounds to my great aunt. Miss
Eyre, of Abingdon House, Hampstead. That
is all. Everything else to Oswald, and failing
him, to his children."

But this is sheer madness ! " cried Mr
Malsham, laying down his pen.

Not at all ; it is simple justice," replied
his client.

I hope to make another will for you, my
dear young friend, some day. You will marry,
of course, and all this will count for nothing,"
said the solicitor, hotly.

I shall not marry," repeated Valentine ;
aud Mr Malsham thought of his daughter
Bella, and determined otherwise.

By the way," he said, suddenly unlocking
a drawer in his writing-table, 'there is a document
which, now that we are alone, I have to
deliver to you. I found it amongst your
uncle's papers. It is, I suppose, some private
wishes that he desires you to carry out ;
nothing of any importance, I imagine."

Valentine took from Mr Malsham's hand a
long, blue envelope, carefully sealed at the
four corners, and addressed to him thus, 

For my nephew, Valentine Eyre, to be
given to him, after my death, by Edward
Malsham, when no one else is present."

Val broke open the seals, and discovered
a second envelope within, equally carefully
fastened up. Upon this was written, 

'valentine Eyre  to be opened when he
is quite alone."

Mr Malsham was watching him curiously.

I am to open it when I am by myself,"
said Val, and slipped the packet into his
breast-pocket.

Ah  of no importance probably," said
the solicitor, carelessly. "And now, my dear

boy, what are you going to do with yourself
to-day ? "

"Well, there are those letters to Smithson
& Co., you told me to copy yesterday. I
had better go and do them, I suppose," replied
Valentine.

''My dear Mr Eyre ! you cannot mean such
a thing seriously ! You are no longer my
clerk  of course you can draw on me for anything
you want, or upon Mr Gilfillan  in fact,
he told me to assure you that there was plenty
of money in the bank at Carlisle at your immediate
service. You must not talk of copying
letters any longer."

I don't know  I'd as soon do that as anything
else this morning, though, of course, I
shall be glad of a little money if I can have it."

Certainly  certainly, but do let me advise
you to go and call on Mrs Malsham  go,
and lunch, she will be delighted to see you,
and she's just the very one to tell you what
to do  put you in the way of changing your
style of living, and so forth. A clever, practical
woman, and knows the right way to do
things  would give you invaluable advice, I
know ; just you go off and see her."

Many thanks, but I don't think I can call
on Mrs Malsham to-day. I shall go and see
my aunt, by-and-by, and meanwhile, I had decidedly
rather copy those letters ; they are all
tumbled up in my desk anyhow, and I should
not like to leave them in disorder."

You will, at any rate, dine with us tonight,"

pleaded Mr Malsham. " We shall be
quite hurt if you do not give us the great
pleasure of seeing you at dinner on this, the
first day of your prosperity."

Valentine had no desire to subject himself to
Mrs Malsham's council and advice, for he had
not forgotten that lady's reception of him on
the one and only occasion that he had presented
himself at her house ; but at the same time he
did not wish to be ungracious to ]mr Malsham,
so he accepted the invitation.

"Thanks, I shall be delighted to come  at
what time do you dine ? "

Seven-thirty, sharp. It will be a real
pleasure to wish you joy and to drink your
health ; besides, there are many things you
and I weill have to talk over."

And then this singular young; man went his
way into the outer office, and sat himself down
on his high stool before his desk, and set to
work to his usual daily tasks, as Quietly as
though Michael Gale's money was nothing; to
him.

I say," said his fellow clerk with the sandy
hair, who sat on the next stool to his oavu,
'* you've been a precious long time in the
guv'nor's room. Did he blow you up
much ? "

Not very much, Wright," said Val, with a
smile.

Well, I'm glad of that," answered James
Wright, pausing for half a second to demolish
a nut shell before he added, " for I can tell

you I've been quite in a stew thinking of how
you were catching it from the old boy."

Thank you, that was kind of you," said
Val, quietly.

A silence, broken only by the scratching of
pens and by the occasional crash of a nut shell.

*' I say, Eyre."

'eyes?"

You don't happen to have fifteen bob about
you, you could lend a fellow, could you ? there's
that confounded Jew at the cigar shop at the
corner keeps on dunning me. I could pay you
back next week, you know."

Valentine rose from his place and went and
knocked at Mr Malsham's door.

If you please, Mr Malsham, can you give
me a little money ? "

My dear Mr Eyre, of course ! I was on
the point of sending for you to do so  here
are two ten-pound notes I was just putting up
for you."

Valentine took the notes and went back to
the outer office ; he folded one up inside his
pocket-book, and then, blushing like a schoolboy,
he scrunched the other up and pressed it
into Jim Wright's red hand, as he took his
place again beside him.

Hallo ! what's this ? " exclaimed that
gentleman as he stared down almost in consternation
at the crisp bank note.

'' "What the"

Hush ! it's nothing," said Valentine stammeringly.


** I  I only thought I should like  to 
give you a little present before I leave."

You are going to leave ? "

*' Yes  it's only a trifle  just to get yourself
anything you want, and you can pay the cigar
man, you know."

Mr Wright, who was a philosopher, cracked
another nut, and pocketed his bank note.

Then presently he said rather unsteadily, ashe
looked down his snub nose at his writing.

** Thanks, old fellow. You're a good sort,
you are, and if ever I can do you a good turn,
I will."

Valentine smiled. But James spright never
forgot that promise.

VOL. I.

A VOICE From THE DEAD.

OU must, of course, change your
lodgings, Mr Eyre. It would
never do for a gentleman in your
position to think of living in the
Fulham Road ! "

The speaker was Mrs Malsham.

The place was the front drawing-room of
the house in Kensington Gardens Square.
The time was after dinner, when the gentlemen
had rejoined the ladies. Mrs Malsham, in
her best ckiret-coloured satin, sat opposite him
in a big arm-chair ; the two Miss Marshals
flitted about in white muslin and blue ribbons.
The heir of the house of Malsham, aged
eighteen, lolled upon a sofa hard by. Valentine
Eyre sat among them all, feeling rather
strange and out of place.

What is my position ? " inquired Valentine
mildly, with his quiet smile.

** Well  that of a gentleman of wealth  "

*' I have always been a gentleman, I trust,

even tIioug;h I have lived in the Fulham Eoad.
Does the wealth make so very much difference
? "

"Oh, Mr Eyre, you do put things so funnily!"
said Bella from behind him.

Valentine half turned round and looked at
her. She was a handsome, showy-looking girl,
with red lips and round brown eyes ; she bad a
certain bold, careless manner that, if it was
somewhat vulvar, was also rather striking.
Her younger sister, Clementina, was a smaller
and paler edition of herself. The two girls
had seated themselves together on a sofa, with
their arms fondly entwined around each
other's waists.

Do bijou think I ought to change my lodgings.
Miss Malsham ? " asked Val, with a smile.

After all, he thought, the girls were kind
and simple hearted.

** Oh, mamma knows best," answered Bella,
with a playful toss of her full, square chin ;
*' you can't do wrong in following her advice ;
and you know it must be a poky sort of place
where you live now. You ought to have good
rooms in the Albany or in St James Street, 
people won't notice you much where you live
now."

Don't talk nonsense, Bella ; people will
notice Mr Eyre wherever he may choose to
live," said her mother, frowning at her.

I am used to be unnoticed," said Val
simply. " I remember once standing in a
corner of this very room  "

Mrs Malsham turned suddenly hot and cold.

**Ah, my dear Mr Eyre," she cried, 'rand
you ran away from us so soon ! I remember
well  I was so distressed to find that you had
flown. I was so surrounded and mobbed by
my guests. You know what these horrible
receptions are, don't you % "

*' No, indeed ; I never was at one before.
But I think," with a kind glance at Bella,
*' that Miss Malsham would have liked to have
spoken to me."

Bella blushed with pleasure ; and Mrs Malsham
hastened to exclaim, *' Yes ; and I told
her to go and introduce herself; but, silly girl,
she was shy ! and then it was too late, for you
had run away. I was so vexed ! "

Valentine remembered quite well Mrs Malsham's
whispered rebuke to her daughter ; but
he only smiled and bowed.

Meanwhile, Mr Malsham sat by and listened
attentively ; he was a shrewd man, accustomed
to study his fellow-creatures, and it struck him,
as he noted his ex-clerk's quiet and composed
words and manner, that he had to deal with a
young man who was not at all of the nature
that he had anticipated. The poor shy youth,
whose very livelihood had depended upon him,
who feared his censure and looked eagerly
for his faintest word of commendation  was a
very different sort of person to the man he bad
now before him. Here was no weak malleable
character, elated by a sudden accession to
wealth, and dazzled by his own importance.

Valentine Eyre was cool and collected  a little
bit inclined to be cynical, and as much in command
of all bis sober senses as though he had
no part in that colossal fortune which had just
fallen so unexpectedly to his share.

Hang it all ! " said Mr Malsham to himself,
as leaning back in his arm-chair he watched his
guest through half-closed eyelids. " He takes
it as coolly as if it was a five-pound note that
had come to him ! His first impulse was indignation
on Powers' account, and it beats me
how he could have gone back to the office and
done all that copying immediately after as if
nothing had happened  and now he sits therewith
that odd smile listening to all the women
say, but not attending to it one bit. I doubt
if I shall not find him a very troublesome customer
to manage ! " Then, aloud, Mr Malsham
addressed his eldest daughter.

Bella, my love, give us a song," and as
she moved obediently to the piano, he added,
that girl sings superbly, sir. I've spent
a lot of money on her education  there's
nothing she can't do  nothing ! She's a
little wonder ! "

Val murmured his respectful admiration of
the little wonder, and from the back drawing-room
Bella cried out coquettishly to him, flinging
her head back over her shoulder, 

Come, Mr Eyre, and turn over my pages
for me ; I know you adore music."

** Indeed, Miss Malsham, I understand very
little about it," answered Val simply, but

going, nevertheless, at her bidding to her side
at the piano.

Bella had a powerful but rather harsh contralto
voice. She sang with considerable expression,
but without much tenderness or
grace. She selected a very impassioned love
song, of which two lines seemed constantly to
repeat themselves 

Come to me  thou shall be mine ;
Do not reject me, for I am thine ! "

she trolled out loudly and almost wildly. And
truly, as she thought of Valentine and all his
thousands standing so close behind her, Bella
was able to throw her whole heart and soul into
these frantic appeals to an imaginary lover.

Val turned over the pages, and quietly said,
'* Thank you," at the end of the song. He
knew, as he had said, but very little about music
as little, perhaps, as he did about young
ladies ; but instinctively he disliked the song
and the manner in which it was sung.

He isn't musical," said Bella to herself,
and was too clever to repeat the experiment.
She shut up the piano, and determined to try
something else.

Fortune favoured her. As Yal followed her
into the front drawing-room, his sleeve caught
in an elaborately-worked chair cover in lace
and coloured silks, which adorned the top of a
prie-dieu chair.

How very awkward I am, Miss Malsham !"
he exclaimed, stooping down to pick up the

fallen article. " I do hope I have done no
harm to this truly beautiful and wonderful
piece of work ? "

'' Oh dear, no, Mr Eyre ! But do you
really admire it ? 1 am so glad ; for it is my
work, and I should be so very pleased if you
would allow me to make you a set for your
new rooms, you know."

Oh, I couldn't think of letting you take so
much trouble for me ! "

It would be no trouble, I assure you 
only the very greatest pleasure. Now, Mr
Eyre, you really must not say no to me ; for
I am too delighted to have found something; todo
for you. I will get the materials aud begin
them tomorrow. Now do say I may ? "

Val could only murmur a grateful assent,
and Miss Malsham clapped her hands together
in infantile glee.

Oh, unlucky young man ! Little did he
realise the long vistas of persecutions which
that unguarded permission concerning chair-backs
was destined to open out before his
unwary steps.

I think Bella got on with him to-night,"
said Mrs Malsham to her husband late that
night, when they found themselves in the
privacy of the marital chamber.

Umph ! Bella will have a good deal todo
before you can hope to call Valentine Eyre
your son-in-law, my dear," replied her spouse
dubiously. " He's a big fish, and will take a
deal of landing."

Fm sure lie seems very simple and boyish,"
said Mrs Malsham.

I think he is less simple than you imagine.
Upon my soul I " added the solicitor, after a
moment's pause, " I can't make the fellow out
one bit ; and yet he has sat in my office everyday
for eight years ! "

Meanwhile Valentine was walking slowly
homeward towards the Fulham Road. The
silence of the dusky London night was grateful
to him ; he wanted to be alone with his
thoughts, and to realise the wonderful change
that had come to him. Of one thing he was
quite sure  he regarded his accession to great
wealth as a thing to be regretted rather than
rejoiced in.

What am I to do with thirty thousand
a-year ? " he said to himself over and over
again, with a sort of comic despair, at which
he was himself amused.

Had his uncle left to him a modest independence
of a few hundreds a-year, he thought
he would have been happy and grateful
enough. His utmost longings had never gone
beyond a couple of hunters in the winter, a
fair amount of shooting during the autumn
months, or a run to Norway now and again in
the salmon season. Had Michael Gale left to
him sufficient to gratify these not very extravagant
desires, he would have been right
royally content indeed. He liked now to
fancy how he would have planned and managed
to make this small fortune yield him

the few things that he coveted. How he
would have set to work to buy his hunters
cheaply and to the best advantage ; how he
would have rented that little bit of rough
shooting in the north that had always struck
his fancy ; how he would have bought a new
gun, fitted himself out with a few new garments,
and above all, have found cash and to
spare to purchase a few more much longed-for
books I But what pleasure could he take in
the colossal wealth which would enable him if
he was so minded to purchase his hunters by
the dozen, his guns and his books by the
gross  when his shooting and his houses
were all ready provided for him, and nothing
more was left for him to long after or to
desire ?

Man values most the things which cost
him trouble to attain," said our philosopher to
himself as he strolled slowly homeward. No
doubt, he reflected, had he been brought up in
anticipation of this tremendous wealth  as had
been his unlucky cousin  no doubt then he
would have been better prepared to receive it
when it came to him. He would have ordered
his life differently ; he would not, for instance,
have wasted his best years on a stool ina
clerk's office  he would have made more
friends, mixed more with his fellow-creatures,
looked at life from a different standpoint, and
done, in short, probably much as Oswald Power
had done. But coming as it came to him now,
Michael Gale's money found him alone in the

world. One old woman at Hampstead was his
only friend  one young one, who had once
smiled upon him, and was promised to another,
his only day dream. His strong contempt for
his uncle's pitiful life and miserable death disinclined
him, surely, from becoming a miser ;
but neither did the tastes of his simple existence,
nor the bent of his mind, incline him to
any wild or reckless extravagance.

'' What am I to do with it all ! " he groaned
half aloud as he put his latch-key into his door
and entered the house where were his lodgings.
He could think of only one thing that he was
to do, and that was to remain unmarried, and
to make that will in his cousin's favour, of
which he had spoken about to Mr Malsham
that morning, and which seemed to him only
a bare act of tardy justice, which Oswald Power
would have a good right to expect at his
hands.

As he went slowly up the narrow staircase
he had no other thought in his mind but to do
this. When he opened his door the lamp was
burning brightly on the red-covered round
table in the middle of his sitting-room. A
tray, with a lemon and a bottle of soda-water,
his nightly potation, was duly set forth at one
side of it, and there, right under the radiance
of the lamp's brilliance, lay a long blueish object
 his uncle's private letter. He had not
yet opened it. On leaving Mr Malsham's
office in the morning, he had gone to visit his
great aunt at Hampstead, coming home only

barely in time to dress for his dinner in Kensington
Garden Square, so that he had purposely
deferred opening his late uncle's letter 
to which, indeed, he did not attach much importance
 until he should come home.

Now, it seemed to him, the time had arrived
when it was fitting that he should read it.
He took off his coat and hat, drew his armchair
forward to the table, and broke the
seals of the envelope. And this is what he
read, 

"My dear Nephew Valentine Eyre, 
When you open this letter I shall be dead.
Therefore I desire that, before you proceed
further with it, you will endeavour to
realise that these written words are words
spoken to you out of Eternity  that the
voice with which I address you is a voice
out of that Somewhere in which my everlasting
spirit now dwells  that the things I am
going to impress upon you are the last wishes
of one who has put off mortal desires, and who,
through this paper, reaches out once more to
earth out of that great Unknown, where I am
now hidden from your bodily eyes."

Oh, solemn and awful words ! The hands
that held the dead man's letter sank upon
Val's knee ; his eyes gazed strangely and
fixedly before him. The silence in the room
was intense ; there was no sound but the ticking
of the clock on the mantelpiece. The darkness
of the nio'ht covered the face of the earth

without  a stillness that was like a thick cloak
seemed to fall upon his soul. At that moment
it appeared to him, indeed, as if the spirit of
his uncle stood face to face with him, and
addressed him through the written words in'
his hands, out of that immensity of the unknown
world to which he had so lately been
taken away. Filled with this solemn thought
he resumed the letter.

Although I am appealing to you in this
fashion, I am well aware that what I am going
to desire you to do has no legal force ;
that many a man in your place would throw
this letter, when read, into the fire, and go
their own way, and forget both the writer and
what he writes. But I do not think you will
do this. I think you are honest, and that you
have a conscience. Valentine Eyre, I charge
you, as you hope for a dead man's blessing
upon the wealth I have left you  as you wish
to avoid a dead man's curse upon your life
I charge you, by the soul of your dead mother
who, as you read these words, is with me in
another World, I charge you to obey me ! "

Again Val paused  half stifled with the
weight of these tremendous adjurations  he
drew a long shuddering breath, and passed his
hand over his eyes ere he looked back once
again to the letter.

I have left you sole heir to my wealth.
You will be astounded  perhaps almost bewildered
 when the news is broken to you.
In my will I have laid no conditions upon

you ; I have left you free as air, because I
desire that the condition I am going to impose
upon you shall be known to no human creature
but yourself, and shall form the link
which binds your living self to my dead spirit.
Remember this, and listen. The reason for
which I make you my heir is this : I see in
you  I have gathered from your words  a
sympathy with my own nature and with my
own prejudices that I have not found in my
other nephew. You have been poor, but you
have been honest and hard-working. You
despise the glitter of wealth, and the empty
vanities of fashion ; you are free of false pride,
and are self-sufficient to yourself; and above
all  and it is for this crowning virtue that I
reward you  you hate and shun the company
of women. All my life I have dreaded the
influence of the other sex. I fear their extravagance
and their dissipation ; I abhor
their frivolity and heartlessness. I have
remained single myself; it is my hope that
you weill be wise, and follow my example.
However, I impose nothing upon you. Marry,
if you think well to do so. Only, I desire
that no woman shall have the powder to
squander the gold that I have toiled early and
late, through a long life of labour and derivation,
to get and to keep. Therefore, if you
do marry, this is what you are to do : 

'you are to draw up a deed of gift, on
the eve of your marriage, which you are to
sign before proper witnesses, immediately

after your return from the church where
you are married, and this is what the deed
is to comprise, 

*' A gift of forty thousand pounds to your
cousin Oswald Power.

A gift of three thousand pounds to Edward
Malsham.

*' A gift of three thousand pounds to Thomas
Gilfillan.

A sum of fifty thousand pounds to the
said Edward Malsham and Thomas Gilfillan,
in trust, for the building and endowment of
a home for aged and decrepit bachelors in
the county of Westmoreland.

"You are to retain for your own, forty
thousand pounds, and the property and Tower
of Cragstone Edge, in Westmoreland. The
balance of the property is to be divided
equally between the county hospitals of
the counties of Westmoreland, Cumberland,
Lancashire, and Yorkshire.

That, in the event of your marriage,
you should fulfil faithfully these conditions
that I impose upon you is the fervent
desire and the solemn injunction of your
uncle who is dead, Michael Gale."

The night wore away ; the grey dawn
crept through the window blinds ; the sounds
of awakening London began to make themselves
heard in the street without ; but still
Valentine Eyre sat still at his red-covered
table, with the dying lamp at his elbow

nd the message from the dead man in his
hands.

Then at last he arose slowly, like a man
in a dream, and took from its shelf a small,
shabby book  his mother's Bible. Then,
holding it in his hand, he said aloud, very
distinctly, 

Uncle, I swear to fulfil your commands
to the letter. So help me God."

He raised the volume to his lips, and then
replaced it upon the shelf. Then he lifted
his arms above his head, and drew a honos
breath, as though of intense relief.

Later on in the day, Edward Malsham received
a short note from his new client.

"Dear Mr Malsham, never mind about the
will. I've changed my mind.  Yours,

V. Eyre."

*'AVhew!" breathed the solicitor, softly
opening his eyes as he scanned it. ''So it
seems that Mrs M. was right, and Miss Bella
made more progress last night than I had
imagined ! My young gentleman is no longer
bent upon celibacy apparently ! "

I WOULD Rather DIE.

Hews ! news, news ! " cried Ralph
(t /\4 Ormond, aged sixteen, 
ing the tongs about his head, ashe
sprang upon the study-table,
and executed a war dance upon that ancient
and venerable article of furniture.

News ! news for you girls, I tell you ! "
'' You will break the table down, Ralph,"
mildly remonstrated Eita, a slight delicate-looking
girl of seventeen, who sat in the window
with a novel in her hand.

How can you expect the brats to learn
their lessons with all this row going on ? " remarked
Betty, from the hearth rug, where,
attired in one of the cook's aprons, she was
down upon her knees, with a paste-pot and a
pair of scissors, adorning a scrap-book with her
own and her brothers' and sisters' last year's
Christmas cards.

"The brats"  generic term for the junior
members of the Ormond family  looked up.
the one from his slate, and the other from his
Magnate's questions, and grinned. One of
them was furthermore heard to murmur that
he had no absorbing desire to learn his lessons
at all.

Then you ought to have," replied Ralph,
charging at him with the tongs from his vantage
position upon the table. " When I was a
little boy of eight years old, I loved my lessons.
I used to cry if I wasn't allowed to learn a
double quantity of them every day. They
had to lick me every evening to stop me from
sitting up till midnight doing multiplication
sums, and tie me down in bed for fear of my
getting up, in the middle of the night, to learn
the dates of the kino-s of England."

What a pity you haven't retained a little
more of the thirst for knowledge that distinguished
your early years," observed Betty,
rather significantly, for Ralph, who went to a
crammer s " every morning in South Kensington,
with a view to passing an examination
for a clerkship in the Treasury, for which he
had a nomination  was not specially famous
either for industry or application.

But what about your news, Ralph ?" asked
Rita ; " have you really anything to tell us ?
and, if so, will it be of the faintest interest to
anybody ?"

Except in the matter of sisterly sympathy,
my love, it does not immediately concern
VOL. I. H

your lovely self  it has to do with the beauteous
and accomplished elder sister, whom I now see
crouching at my feet, with a smear of paste
across her damask cheek."

"Meaning nef" inquired Betty, without
looking up.

Meaning you ; oh, lovely Letitia ! "

Why, what can you have heard about me ?"
said Betty, laughingly ; " has anything happened
to me without my knowledge ?"

Not to you ; but to one of your numerous
lovers, my angel. We, inferior members of the
family, scarcely apprehend whether this gentleman
is your accepted suitor or not  for your
sake it's to be hoped not. Aha ! my lady,
your cheeks are red ! I thought I should
arouse the maiden blushes; and here's Eita, who
has thrown aside her third volume ! So you
wouldn't take any interest wouldn't you, young
ladies ? I thought I should wake up Miss
Conscience, when I talked about her lovers to
her ; " and Ealpli indulged forthwith in a pas
seul upon the table.

Ealph ! you donkey, come down and
leave off talking rubbish, and explain yourself
if you can," cried Betty.

And do tell us what you mean about
Betty's suitor, and why do you hope she hasn't
accepted him ? " said Eita, eagerly, for not
being allowed to come out herself, until Betty
should be married off, she naturally took a
deep interest in her sister's love affairs.

Ealph let himself down with a thump into

a sitting posture upon the edge of the table,
where he remained swing-vino; his leos, and
snapping the tongs together in an irritating
manner.

Because his uncle is dead," he beoan in a
solemn and impressive manner.

*' It's Mr Power then, you mean ? " said
Eita.

His uncle has left him his money ?" said
Betty, rather breathlessly, whilst her heart
began to beat oddly.

** His uncle has cut him off with the munificent
sum of one shilling ! " responded Ealph,
oracularly nodding his head up and down, and
enjoying the sensation he was creating.

Eita drew a long breathed " Oh  ! " but
Betty looked away and said nothing. The
brats nudged each other and giig-led and
whispered. These two young gentlemen 
who went to a day school hard by in the
morning, and learnt their lessons at home in
the afternoon, in the dingy little back-room,
with a ground-glass window, like a white
blind eye, that went by the dignified name
of the "study"  enjoyed at times a good deal
of miscellaneous fun and excitement in the
intervals of their sums and Latin exercises,
for this little dingiest and shabbiest corner of
the gloomy threadbare house in Brimstone
Square, where they had been all born and
brought up, was often the favourite resort of
the elder members of the family. Here, on a
wet day  like to-day  or when unwelcome

visitors detained Lady Helena upstairs, Betty
would bring her " messes," and Eita her novel,
and Ealph would saunter in to keep them all
alive. Here took place toffee-makings and
currant-cake bakings on the shovel, and here,
there were afternoon teas of buttered toast and
scones, the like of which were unknown in the
large gloomy drawing-room above. Sometimes
in the holidays, when the full complement of
brats " was made up by the presence of
Teddy and Wilfred, the two schoolboys
proper, now " mercifully," as Ealph often said,
absent, the fun would wax fast and furious in
the back study ; but at all times of the year
little Jim and Tim had very fine times in the
afternoons in the little dingy room when any
of the elders favoured them with their company,
and they picked up a good deal of
extraneous information  social, moral, and
metaphysical  which had very little bearing
upon Latin declensions or the exact rendering
of the multiplication table.

They had known all about Oswald Power's
courtship of their pretty elder sister  what
little boys of eight and ten, thus initiated into
the ways of their elders, would not ?  they
knew he was " beastly rich," and had hoped,
if he married Betty, he would tied them welland
take them to the pantomime next winter ;
and they understood that Betty was somehow
under a cloud about him now, and that mother
and aunt had scolded her till she had cried
one day. They didn't know quite what had

happened, but they were inclined to think 
for girls are seldom divinities to their younger
brothers  that Oswald had thought her rather
a duffer," and had not in consequence definitely
" popped the question," much to her
own and their mother's disoaist.

They whispered together quite eagerly now.
They were sharp enough to understand that
if Mr Power wasn't " so very rich," mother
and aunt wouldn't let Betty marry him, and
tips and pantomimes and heavy wedding-cake
faded away together into dim unreality.

The money has all gone to some cousin of
his whom nobody ever heard of," announced
Ealph presently, keeping up a pleasant jingling
accompaniment with the tongs.

Betty, who had been carefully contemplating
a red Bohemian glass atrocity, much esteemed
by her in childhood, that stood on the mantelpiece,
dropped it with a snap that might easily
have broken this venerable relic, and turned
round with a start.

What ! But how on earth do you know
all this, Ealph ? You must give your
authority. How can you possibly have
heard it all?"

Did you not remark that the visitors' bell
rang twenty minutes ago ? it was our beloved
and aristocratic aunt  such an advantage,
dearest brats "  waving his arm in the direction
of the two small boys who were, needless
to say, listening hard  " such an advantage to
you, my innocents, to have a mother and an

ait of such aristocratic origin  thank Providence,
my infants, for this inestimable
blesbino;."

Oil, Ealph, do go on ! " interrupted Rita.

"Patience, dearest sister, is the keystone of
wit, which is to say, being interpreted  hurry
no man's cattle. Well, I was on the upper
stairs, from whence 1 witnessed the arrival on
the scene of our adored and beautiful aunt 
she came in like this  "

Here Ralph jumped off the table, tucked his
coat-tails under his arms, and began stepping
on tip-toe daintily across the room, with his
chin well in the air. The brats laughed till
they nearly tumbled off their chairs. Even
Betty and Rita joined in the hilarity, for
Ralph's mimicry was admirable.

That's the way her ladyship came up,
mincingly, with her lips tight together, and
her eyelids winking away like fun. I could
see something was up. She went into the
drawing-room, and left the door ajar, and so 1
ran downstairs to the landing, and  "

You listened outside the door, Ralph ! "
cried Betty, reproachfully.

My angel ! I merely paused upon the
landing to study the marble bust of Minerva 
on the table outside the door  a work of great
art, I assure you, which was presented to our
father by a great Italian sculptor."

You listened ! " repeated Betty.

Beauteous sister, why these dark suspicions
? Providence has beneficently endowed

me with ears  they are neither large nor unwieldy
 like Eita's, when she forgets to pull
her hair over them ; but they are sharp.
How can you blame me for making use of
the talents with which nature has endowed
me ? "

Betty could not help laughing, whilst Eita
urged Ealph to go on, and tell them what ho
had overheard.

Well, I heard old Corny telling the mater
that Oswald Power was left without a penny,
and that the old miser had left all his money
to the cousin. She had it on the best authority,
she said  on the very best authority;" and,
again, Ealph half-closed his eyelids, and nodded
his head up and down, pursing up his lips inexact
imitation of his mother's sister  who
certainly was no favourite with these ungrateful
young people ; " and then she called mother
her ' dearest Helena,' and kissed her a great
deal, poor mother ! then they both said they
had had a providential escajDC  I don't quite
understand why, and that Betty was a dear,
good, sensible girl  so you are in favour again
and nothing; could be more fortunate than
something;  Hark ! there's the drawing-room
bell  that's for you Betty, or I'm a Dutchman
!"

Five minutes later, having hurriedly washed
her hands and face, and divested herself of the
cook's a23ron  Betty presented herself upstairs.

Lady Helena lay on the sofa, holding a
handkerchief to her nose  there was a strong

smell of ether and eau de Cologne in the room,
which Betty, from force of long custom,
understood to indicate one of her mothers
attacks of the nerves.

Lady Helena was a pale, faded woman, who
had once been pretty, but was now a mere
washed-out shadow of her former self. She
suffered much from depression and low spirits,
and had no strength of character to struggle
against her malady. Her strong-minded sister
was the pillar of strength against which she
propped up her existence.

She beckoned Betty to her sofa, and kissed
her fondly. Lady Cornelia was pacing up and
down the room.

Your dear aunt has brought us wonderful
news, my dear Lettre'' said her mother. " It
seems that we have been all mistaken."

Yes, I was mistaken  I own it, Helena 
you need not reproach me  the best of us are
liable to error  "

"My dear, I don't reproach you," murmured
Lady Helena, almost in tears. " I am sure
you are hardly ever wrong."

"Well, this time I am rioht enough. I
have it on the best authority  the very
best."

Betty could hardly help laughing. Lady
Cornelia looked so exactly like Ealph as she
said this, nodding her head and pinching up
her lips.

It appears," she said, turning suddenly
and almost fiercely upon Betty, " it appears

that we have all been mistaken, and that
young Power was nothing but an impostor
after all ! "

'' An impostor, aunt ? What can you
mean ? " queried Betty, quite sharply.

'there was a mistake," murmured Lady
Helena, apologetically. " No doubt the poor
fellow"

A mistake, indeed ! " interrupted Lady
Cornelia, tossing her head. " A pretty mistake
to come into people's houses passing himself
off as heir to a large fortune, and allowing
parents with marriageable daughters to ask
him to dinner, and show him all sorts of
civilities ; and now it turns out that he is
nothing but a Wretched, miserable pauper !
I call it a fraud, Helena  a fraud upon
society ! "

It's a pity, certainly," murmured Lady
Helena, meekly acquiescent as usual.

What a sinful, wicked young man ! " here
remarked Betty, with that perfect gravity of
manner which always made Lady Cornelia
feel uncomfortable. This girl was the only
one of her sister's children whom ever she had
had any trouble with. She looked up at her
quickly. Betty's grey eyes expressed cjuite an
intense horror at Oswald Power's conduct.
The lines of her mouth were grave and serious.
Was she in earnest? Lady Cornelia wondered;
or was she secretly laughing at her ? She
could not tell.

' Well," she said, rather uneasily, " it

certainly does almost amount to wickedness,
for he might have done incalculable mischief ;
but for your good sense, dear child, and for
your cleverness in guessing that all was not
quite so safe as everyone supposed, for no
doubt, you sly puss, you did guess it  "

Of course ! I had it on the best authority,"
said Betty, demurely.

But for that," went on Lady Cornelia, as
though she had not heard this irrelevant
observation, " you would have now been  "

'utterly lost," suggested Betty.

Well  yes  one may say so, for his uncle
has left him nothing  absolutely nothing ; and
beyond a few hundreds, which no doubt the
wretched young man has utterly squandered,
he can have nothing to call his own but a
mass of debts  he always was recklessly extravagant
; well, we are well rid of him. I
am sure I don't know what anyone ever saw
in him."

He is certainly not good looking," said
Lady Helena.

Nor clever," remarked her sister.

"His manners are quite unpolished."

Quite the worst mannered young man I
ever came across."

"And so egotistical."

"Oh, he was most conceited  an insufferable
puppy, in fact."

Here Betty laughed shortly.

Poor Mr Oswald Power 1 " she cried ; " and
only yesterday he was the petted favourite of

society. Everybody worshipped him ; no party
could be perfect without him ; no woman so to
be envied as the one he chose to smile upon ! "

Well, my dear," said her aunt quickly,
with rather a heightened colour, " if other
people change their opinion about him, you, at
all events, have always thought the same of
him ; you have always been against him, even
before he had the impertinence and audacity
to propose to you ; you used to turn your
back upon him, and snub him in every possible
way ; you cannot deny that you dislike him
thoroughly."

On the contrary," cried Betty defiantly,
I never liked him so much as 1 do now that
he is in trouble."

Lady Cornelia literally jumped in her chair ;
and even her mother uttered an exclamation of
dismay ; the two ladies exchanged glances of
horror and amazement. Was it possible that
this incomprehensible and perverse girl was
actually going to fall in love with Oswald
Power, now that he wasn't worth a brass
farthing ? Can anybody ever be up to the
contrarieties of young women ? thought Lady
Cornelia, with a groan.

She cannot mean it ! " murmured the girl's
mother, almost in tears.

But, Betty, you must be mad ! " exclaimed
her aunt, despairingly. " Why, you knoiv
you always liked that other young man the
best, the other nephew, that good-looking,
pleasant-spoken Mr Valentine Eyre, to whom

old Mr Gale has left the whole of his large
fortune."

It was Betty's turn now to jump.

Oh, has he really, really left him everything
? " she cried excitedly, clasping her hands
together, whilst her eyes danced, and the
bright colour leapt into her face.

Yes, everything. I have it from the best
authority ; from Mr Malsham, who is my man
of business, and who is also one of Mr Gale's
executors. There can be no doubt about it.
Valentine Eyre comes in to every farthing of
his uncle's money."

How very, very glad I am," cried Betty,
clasping her hands together, with kindling eyes.

Then Lady Cornelia glanced at her sister.
Poor Lady Helena seemed to pluck up her
courage ; there was something evidently that
it was now her duty to say.

She began hesitatingly, 

We have been thinking, dear  your aunt
and I ; we thought we would suoo;est a little
graceful action to you. As you and this young
man have known each other as children, and
as he seems that he is such a delightful person
so very desirable an acquaintance in every
way ; in fact, as you know him  he might be
gratified  it might be a kind thing to do  "

Poor Lady Helena blundered on hopelessly,
getting into a perfect fog of embarrassment.
She looked helplessly at her sister, who here
rushed in to the rescue.

Li short, Betty, we think you ought to

write to this young man, and congratulate
him on his good fortune, and tell him to call
here and make your parents' acquaintance."

Lctty coloured up to the roots of her hair.

/," she repeated, looking at them both
strangely, "I write to Valentine Eyre, and
ask him to come here ! I wonder you dare
ask me to do such a thing, Aunt Cornelia.
You, who turned him out of your house in
the north when he came to call on you, not
more than a month ao;o ! "

It was Lady Cornelia's turn to colour.

"Dear me, Betty, you use very strange
words, I think. Talk about ' daring ' to me,
and telling me that I turn people out of doors."

"You boasted of it to me when I came in."

Well, the circumstances were very different
then. The young man was a nobody ;
one knew nothing about him. How could I
tell what sort of a character he might be ? "

That is to say," cried Betty indignantly,
with an angry wave of her hand, " that he
was poor then, and now he is rich. It seems
that, when you are poor, you are wicked in
this world, and dien you become rich, you
also become virtuous. Poor Oswald Power,
who used to be the text of all your sermons
to me, is now" everything that is bad in your
eyes ; extravagant, ugly, bad mannered, conceited,
and stupid. Do you remember, Aunt
Cornelia, how yoM used to cry him up to me
last season, till I loathed the very sound of
his name ? Or. perhaps, you have conveniently

forgotten all that. It is for him I feel now ;
to him I feel inclined to write, not for my own
sake, but for Madeline Abbott's, to whom I
believe him to be engaged ; for I am sorry for
them both."

Pooh ! don't waste pity on Miss Abbott,
my dear. She will not think of marrying
him now."

I have a better opinion of her. Do you
suppose that she could be so base as to throw
over the man she loves because he is less rich
than she expected ? I should despise her forever
if she did so ! "

Lady Cornelia laughed softly.

Madeline Abbott has common sense, my
dear, which you have not. I happen to know
that she will not marry Oswald Power."

I had rather not discuss the question,"
answered Betty hotly. " You do not understand
Madeline Abbott."

Lady Cornelia laughed.

That is neither here nor there, Betty. We
have nothing to do with Miss Abbott and hero



love affairs ; will you please do as your mother
and I tell you, and write a note to Mr Eyre ? "

Betty looked at her oddly.

No," she answered, '' I will not write to
him."

My dear, why on earth not ? it would bethe
most natural thing in the world."

There was a look in the girl's eyes she did
not like. Lady Cornelia was inclined to be
conciliatory.

Yes ; it would be, as you say, most natural,"
answered the girl strangely; "we were
friends as children  shall always be friends, I
hope  had you been kind to him, aunt, when
he was poor that day he came to your house 
had you even behaved to him like a lady  "

'' Betty ! "

Then I would have written to him," she
continued, reckless of the interruption ; " but,
as it is, as you were rude to him when he was
poor and friendless, and turned him out of
doors without even offering him lunch  well,
as it is  I would rather die ! "

The door closed behind her and she was gone.

'' That is a dreadful girl ! " said Lady Cornelia
to her sister, looking rather white and
uncomfortable  but she did not again ask
Betty to write to Valentine Eyre.

THE COUSINS.

'''SN his handsomely furnished rooms
if in Charges Street, sat an exceedingly
miserable young man. Everything
about him denoted luxury
and prosperity, rich satin draperies hung at
the windows, and over the doors, handsome
velvet couches and arm-chairs, and fine inlaid
cabinets furnished the room ; valuable watercolour
pictures hung upon the walls ; a few rare
bits of china stood upon the mantel-shelf.
The tables where littered with expensive nick-nacks,
and through the half-drawn portiere
that led into the bedroom beyond could be
seen a dressing-table set out with gold and
silver topped bottles, and strewn over with
jewellery of considerable value. There was a
card-bowl filled to the brim upon the table,
and a great number of invitation cards and
notes were stuck against the frame of the
mirror over the fireplace.

In the midst of all this luxurious disorder
sat Oswald Power, with his head on the table,
buried in his outstretched arms, a picture of
absolute heart-broken despair.

For he was ruined, indeed ; ruined in his
fortune and ruined in his love  and, to do
him justice, he felt the latter sorrow the worst.
Between his clenched hands there was clasped
a crushed-up scrap of paper which had come
to him by last night's post, and which had
put the climax to all his woes  he told himself
that he could have borne all save this ; but
that this last blow was the worst of all  that
it would kill him.

He had loved  or fancied he had loved 
many times before ; but this last love had
seemed to him to have been the strongest and
most absorbing of all. He thought over her
beauty and graciousness  he recalled the lines
of her grand figure, the flash of her wonderful
eyes into his, the melodious tones of her sweet,
soft voice, until these memories seemed well
nigh to madden him, for she had thrown him
over basely and cruelly  and, in spite of all
his love, he perceived for the first time that she
was unworthy  his idol was not only lost to
him, but shattered and fallen for ever.

He lifted up a face white and haggard with
misery and sleeplessness, and groaned aloud, 

"And I owe her father n thousand

pounds ! " he cried aloud. '' Where am I to get

as many shillings ? If I could only pay him off

I could breathe ; but to remain in his debt

VOL. I. I

after this  this from her  will choke me ! I
do not suppose there is one among all these
fine-weather friends who have sent me so many
invitations ; and been so glad to see me, who
would lend me five pounds to-day ; and these
sharks of tradesmen will be down upon me for
their money from every direction. I shall
have to bolt, for I shan't be able to pay them ;
and goodness only knows what will be left forme
to live on ; but if I could pay Colonel
Abbott, I should not mind."

Once more he dropped his head into his
hands and groaned. He was right ; out of all
the hundreds of men who had smiled upon him
in his prosperity, who had grasped his hand
in hearty greeting, who had pressed him to
dine at their tables and to stay in their houses,
not one had written him one line, or made
him one offer of sympathy or help in his adversity.
In twenty-four hours the news had flown
like wildfire all over the town  that Oswald's
old uncle had left him nothing ! Already it
was the talk of the clubs, and the gossip of the
drawing-rooms in which he had ever been so
favoured and welcome a guest. Already men
and women had begun to shake their heads
over him  they had never thought much of
Oswald Power ; he had had no business to
reckon on his uncle's money, and to pass himself
off for a rich man ; the tide had turned
against him. They repeated, as Lady Cornelia
had done, that he was conceited and empty
headed ; that he had bad manners and a worse

disposition  in short, what anybody had ever
seen in him to like was inconceivable  they,
for their parts, had always thought there was
something not altogether nice about him,
etc., etc.

Poor Oswald Power ! his day was over, his
glory was at an end. Many an ivory and
tortoiseshell-handled penwas scratched through
his name that day in many a gilt-edged, Russia
leather - visiting book; from many a dainty
drawing-room, where he had so often whiled
away his idle hours, sipping tea out of fragile
cups, teasing the pug, winding up scattered
wools, and flirting pleasantly with the fair
owner the while,  from many such a room
was he henceforth to be for ever banished,
and his place was to know him no longer.
As to helping him, or lending him money,
or offering to buy his pictures and his china,
his horses and his carriages at a good price,
do you suppose that one of them would
have lifted a finger to do him a good turn
of the kind ? No, not one. Here and
there some one kinder hearted than the rest
forbore to throw a stone at the fallen one,
and murmured a brief regret over the change
in his position. But even to these he had
become a fallen creature, and as such, best
forgotten as soon as possible. Whilst there
was one man  one who had seemed his friend
whom, had all gone well, would have been
his near relation, who went about complaining
openly and loudly of his wrongs.

Hang it, sir ! " this gentleman was saying
over and over again to his friends and acquaintances,
"the fellow owes me money  a
considerable sum of money, sir ! I'm not a
rich man ; I can't afford to lose it. I've a
daughter to think of, you know. I must get
that money out of him somehow  the unprincipled
young scoundrel ! " and the acquaintances
considered that Colonel Abbott was very
much to be pitied indeed.

As to Oswald Power's fashionable and
hitherto lonsf-sufferino; tradesmen, you should
have seen how they all took out their books
on that particular morning, and how glibly
they all made out their accounts, and what a
hurry of consternation they were in to send
off their little bills. There was the tailor and.
the hatter and the hosier, and there was the
jeweller and the florist and the perfumer.
There was really quite a little commotion in the
usually tranquil establishments appertaining
to each of these good gentlemen to-day ; for if
rats forsake a sinking ship, vultures are not
behindhand in swooping down fiercely upon
the wretch who stumbles and falls by the
roadside of life, and lays himself down to
perish of his despair. The friends had left
him. The air was darkening already with
the birds of prey that came howling about
him in his destitution and his loneliness.

So Oswald Power sat alone in his misery,
and knew not where to turn or what to do ;
even his landlady had scowled as she brought

-zz

up his morning tec% and had set down the tray
with an angry matter by his bedside, for she
was thinking of her rent, and that reflection
effectually stifled every feeling of compassion
and sympathy within her. For however much
we may gloss it over, and however strenuously
we may strive to shut our eyes to it, there
remains one great fact that is incontrovertible
in the philosophy of this world. The rich
man has many friends, the insolvent man has
nothing but foes ; and that is wdiat makes us
all so bad and base and mean ; that renders
society such a sham and a cheat ; that makes
Englishmen  as Thackeray has told us that weare
 a nation of snobs ; that vile things that
blackens our lives and hardens our hearts, and
ruins all our noblest instincts  the love of
gold ! " God made gold ; but gold is the god
that man has set up."

And as he sat there, a ruined and miserable
man, there came a ring at his door.

A gentleman, sir, to see you," said his
landlady, flinging wide open his door.

Oswald sprang to his feet.

"Oh, I can't see anybody ; say I'm out ! " he
exclaimed, hastily, for his imagination flew at
once to some persecuting dun come already to
demand money from him.

The landlady possibly thought the same,
and rejoiced grimly thereat, for there was a
glimmer of fiendish satisfaction in her eyes.

*' Too late, sir ; the gentleman wouldn't take
no refusal. He is following me up the stairs.

You'll have to see him ! " she added, with a
decided lack of her customary respect ; and
standing back, she ushered into the room a
young man whom, at the first moment, Oswald
did not think he had ever seen before.

He looked at him curiously, and somewhat
uneasily. The stranger waited until the lingering
landlady had shut the door, then he held
out his hand.

Oswald, do you not know me ? "

You are Valentine Eyre," said the other,
with a sudden flash of recognition ; but he did
not hold out his own hand.

"Won't you shake hands?" asked Val,
almost pleadingly.

"I don't know why I shouldn't," said
Oswald, gruffly ; " though I really don't quite
see what you have come for."

Val glanced round the room,  he had had
a slight trouble in discovering his cousin's
address ; his club he had known of, but not
his private rooms  and as his quick eyes took
in the details of the rich and luxurious surroundings,
the like of which in a bachelor's
habitation he had certainly never seen before,
it did come across Val's mind to remember
that, during all his weary years of toiling by
day in a city office  of long solitary evenings
in his shabby lodging in the Fulham Eoad 
Oswald Power had never once stretched out a
friendly hand to him ; never asked him within
his doors ; never offered him so much as a
glass of water in hospitality.

Having looked round the room his eyes
came back to his cousin's face. There was
no mistaking the look of despair and misery
there. Oswald had the appearance of a man
who had been awake all night, and his whiteface
and haggard eyes gave sufficient evidence
of the condition of his mind.

'* This is a bad business, Oswald."

The other laughed shortly.

I don't see that you have much cause to
say so ; it's all to the good for you as far as I
can see."

I don't think so ; I never wished to be
very rich, though I should have been glad to
be made independent. But it is very hard
upon you. One does not wish to judge the
dead ; but  "

Oh no, pray, don't ; what does it signify ;
it can't be helped or altered now."

No, it can't be altered," repeated Va],
gravely ; and if Oswald had cherished any
secret hopes that his cousin was quixotically
disposed to hand over part of his fortune to
himself, these hopes were hereupon put to
flight.

Well, then, what is the use of talking about
it ? I daresay you came here to say you were
sorry for me ; but I don't want your pity. I
daresay I shall get along all right."

I didn't come to otter pity, only to see if
I could help you. 1 mean, of course," he
said quickly, with a flush, " in case you are
in any temporary embarrassment. I know

that you are quite independent, and have
plenty of money to live on ; but I thought
perhaps this unexpected change in your prospects
might cause you some annoyance. You
may have reckoned upon it ; overdrawn your
balance ; got into debt ; heaven knows what ;
may I not help you if this is the case ? "

I do not want your help," began the other,
coldly and ungraciously ; and then a sudden
thought of Colonel Abbott and the five
thousand pounds rushed into his mind ; it
was like the grasp of a rope to a drowning
man. " Yet stay," he said, turning round
quickly upon his cousin ; " do you really mean
what you say, I wonder ? "

There was an anxious, troubled look in the
eyes he fixed upon him.

Oswald," said Yal, simply, " we are
strangers, and yet we are cousins ; blood is
thicker than water, they say, and our mothers
were sisters ; you look like a man in grievous
trouble, whom should you come to, if not tome?
Be generous to me, and let me help
you!"

Oswald Power was neither clever nor noble
minded, but somewhere or other beneath his
foolishness there was a soft spot in his heart.
He could not but be touched by this appeal ;
could not but see that there was no unreality
in Yal's osier of help. A sudden burst of confidence
moved him to put his hands out to the
younger man.

'' Ah ! " he said, " you cannot help me with

the worst of my trouble ; and yet there is
something you could do for me if you would.
I would not ask you if it were only for the
money, but it is for honour too."

Val looked sympathetic and full of interest.

You are a good fellow, I do believe, Valentine,"
continued Oswald, with a ghost of a
smile. " You must think me an Unmannerly
brute, and that I grudge you your good luck ;
but you would forgive me for my bad temper
if you knew all. Look here," he continued,
after a pause, "it is not only money  though
that is bad enough, for I am pretty near broke
and in debt all over the place  but there was
a woman I loved." Poor Oswald ! once
launched upon this subject, his secret flowed
easily from his breaking heart ! His voice
trembled, and his eyes grew thin and blurred
as he spoke of it. "A girl whom I was to
have married ; whom I thought good and
true."

Yes, yes," murmured Val, with a strangely
beating heart.

'' I thought that she cared for me  for me
Thyself, you understand  not for any money
that 1 might be going to have. Her eyes were
so loving, her voice so tender. Ah, if you had
seen her, you would have believed in her too 1 "

"Yes," he murmured once more, with a
faint sickening dread at his heart.

And now," continued Oswald, desperately,
now, because I am disinherited  because I
am poor  she has thrown me over."

Oh no, no, no ! " cried Valentine, with a
passionate reiteration of denial. " No, it cannot
be possible. You must have misunderstood
her ; there must be some mistake."

Mistake, indeed ! " repeated the other,
with a bitter laugh. " Not much mistake
about it, I fancy. Head that."

He tossed the little crumpled-up note into
his cousin's hands. Val opened it. He had
turned very pale. This is what he read, 

'' I have just heard the dreadful news, and
I write at once to give you up for ever.
Poverty would suit neither of us. You
pressed me yesterday for an answer, and
this is my answer. Do not think me unkind
; I have my duty, as a daughter, to
consider. Under other circumstances we
might have been happy together ; as it islet
us remain good friends, but remember
that we can never be anything more."

There was no signature. Valentine sat
staring blankly, hopelessly, at this handwriting,
which he had never seen before, till
the words danced confusedly upon the white
paper before his eyes, and the writing, bold
and large in character, burnt itself for ever
into his memory. In a moment he was faraway
from Clarges Street and Oswald Power ;
floating on a blue, rippled Westmoreland
lake ; and before him there gleamed a sweet,
girlish face, with earnest, grey eyes, whilst
a clear voice seemed to ring once more in his
ears.

You see it is the way we are all of us
brought up, we girls, now-a-days."

It was Betty's voice that seemed to say
this to him over again.

False, heartless, and mercenary ! Had she
said to him  to Valentine Eyre  " I can
never love you  never be yours," that he
told himself would have been easy to bear.
But that he should behold her revealed to
his eyes in this horrible, this degrading,
character, this seemed to him to be an agony
that was almost intolerable. Death may take
our dear ones, and their places may be filled
up in our hearts, but never, never again can
life restore to us the broken hopes, the shattered
illusions, of our youth's fond imaginings.
These things once slain, have perished
for ever. These are griefs for which there is
no healing, which leave a scar that time has
no power to obliterate.

That is woman's love ! " interrupted Oswald,
with a scornful laugh breaking in upon
his reverie. '' My dear Valentine, you area
wealthy man, and I am a ruined one, but
I am older than you, and I've seen the world,
and you have not yet entered upon it. Let
me give you one piece of useful advice before
you do so. Don't put your heart at the
mercy of a woman. If you do, you will repent
it, as I do to-day."

But Oswald had said this many times about
many women. At this moment, it was Valentine
who suffered the most.

It is sad  very sad," he said, as he gave
him back the note, nothing doubting but that
it had been written b} Betty Ormond, between
whom and his cousin he had Lady Cornelia's
authority for believing there had existed
an engagement. " You are right, Oswald.
I cannot help you there ; I can only pity you.
Let us not speak of it. Tell me rather what
it is that I can do for you."

"It is because of  of her  that this other
matter is so bitter to me," said Oswald, hesitatingly.
" I owe money  to  to a member
of her family ; they are poor, you know."

"Yes; and you promised to lend them
money ? "

No ; I was foolish enough to play high.
I lost."

It is a gambling debt then ? " said young
Valentine, with a frown upon his clear brow.

Well, a debt of honour."

I don't see much ' honour ' myself about it,"
replied his cousin, quickly. " How much is it ? "

A great deal, I am afraid  five thousand
jDouncls. You see, to remain in debt to anyone
]belonging to her  "

Is absolutely impossible, either for you
or for me," said Val, hastily. "This is my
business, Oswald, quite as much as yours.
There is no difficulty about it at all. Tell
me the name of your banker, and the money
shall be jaid into your account this afternoon.
I will see about it at once." He took out
his pocket-book, and wrote down a rapid

memorandum. 'but surely, Oswald, I can
help you more than in this. AVhat are you
going to do with yourself ? "

I shall have to bolt. I am horribly in
debt, and I've been living beyond my income.
1 must go abroad."

Val thought a moment, then he said, 

Look here, Oswald, I have a proposition
to make to you, with a condition. I will pay
your debts for you  give me all your bills
and they shall be settled, only let me have
every one of them."

My dear Valentine, I could not think of
it,  why should you ? "

'' Wait ! you have not heard my conditions.
By the way, these rooms  what are you going
to do about them ? "

* Sell the furniture, I suppose. I must give
them up."

'' Well, I think they will suit me. I will
take them off your hands, if you like."

You are too good to me," murmured
Oswald, almost overcome.

Not at all ; I want good rooms, and these
will do for me admirably, and save me the
trouble of furnishing. But 1 have not told
you all. I will set you clear on one condition
you must do something for me."

I will do anything  anything you ask,"
said Oswald fervently. And he meant it at
the moment.

I want you to go and live up in Westmoreland,
at the old Tower."

At Cragstone Edge ? "

*' Yes ; it will be very dull, but you will
have plenty to do. I am going to do up the
old place thoroughly. It will be re-decorated
and re-furnished throughout. I shall send
down workmen from town. The grounds,
too, are to be laid out afresh, gardens and
shrubberies to be made, and glass houses built.
I shall send practical men from London, but
I wish you to live on the spot, to overlook
and direct everything. You will be my agent,
in fact, and free to exercise your own taste
and discretion in everything. The house must
be arranged inside and out in a fitting style
for a lady's occupation. I intend to marry,
and when I marry I shall live there."

You intend to marry ? You are not then
warned by my example ? " hazarded Oswald.

"Yes, I shall marry," replied Yal, gravely
  too gravely for such a subject. '' 1 do not
think I shall run the same risk as you have
done," he added enigmatically.

Oswald did not understand him, but he
offered no explanation.

It does not suit me to leave town : you
will be the greatest help to me u]) there. Ina
year's time I reckon that Cragstone will befit
for my reception, and for that of the lady
whom I shall make my wife. I do not know
her yet," he added, with a smile, as he caught
Oswald's puzzled expression. " AY ell, do you
agree to my terms ? "

With all my heart. How, indeed, could

I do otherwise ? They are simply salvation
to me."

Very well. In a year's time you will pull
round. Of course you live at my expense ;
and you will be able to face the world again."

And then he went away, leaving Oswald
Power under the impression that, though a
good fellow, he was decidedly rather mad.

A CHANCE ENCOUNTER.

NEW object in life, a fresh impetus
altogether, had been given to
Valentine Eyre by that private
letter from Michael Gale, containing
the eccentric old man's commands and
injunctions. When he had first learnt that
he was the inheritor of his uncle's vast fortune,
he had been filled with perplexity, almost
with dismay. He had not wanted it ; he did
not think be knew what to do with it : and
although, as a matter of fact, he had an equal
right with Oswald to be his uncle's heir, being
equally related to him, he did not consider
that his cousin had been fairly treated by the
narrow-minded and miserly old man. It was
clearly an injustice to have led him to expect
everything, and then to have left him nothing
at all. And Valentine hated injustice. That
he should be himself in his own person the
instrument by which the unholy caprices of

the dead man were to be carried out, was
odious to him. He had cast about at once to
see what could be done to repair the great
evil that had been committed. To die unmarried,
leaving a will in his cousin's favour,
had been the simplest method that had at first
occurred to his mind ; but that process was
tedious, and not altogether effectual. 'J'o
beo-in with, he was vouno;er than Oswald, and
might in all probability outlive him. There
was also an unreality about it that did not
commend itself to his mind. And, whilst he
was debating within himself what else he could
do, there had come the reading of that singular
letter in which his future path was plainly cut
out for him. That he should disregard or disobey
these last injunctions from the dead relative
who had enriched him, never for a moment
entered into Valentine's mind.

The conditions that were there laid down
seemed to him to be as absolutely binding
upon him as though they were actually legal
and incontrovertible. In fact, he grasped at
them eagerly and gladly. Here was a solution
of all his difficulties, a way out of his perplexities
 a way that was no longer a fanciful
fashioning of his own, but was an actual duty
to the dead. Duty to Valentine's earnest
well-ordered mind possessed a soothing and
comforting power, which to a man whose youth
had been less stern and barren, would have
been quite incomprehensible. It was as if all
the mists of uncertainty had cleared away, and

VOL. I. K

this path in life had been distinctly pointed out
to him.

Along that path he determined to walk.

He would marry  and by his marriage restore
to his cousin that fair proportion of
their uncle's property, which was certainly
his right  it is true that the greater part
of Michael Gale's wealth would be diverted
into other channels ; but that did not seem
an evil to him, since Oswald, as well as himself,
would be left with a fortune, which would
surely be amply adequate to the wants of
each. Meanwhile, and since Crags tone Edge
was to be eventually his home, Valentine determined,
during the time that must necessarily
elapse before he could choose his wife, and
actually marry her, that he would  as was
within his right  spare no expense to make
the ancient castle amongst the hills, a fit and
suitable abode to which to bring his bride. It
was thus that the idea occurred to him, whilst
hearing of his cousin's difficulties, to lend him
a helping hand by setting him a task which
would take him away from the life which had
become a failure to him, and give him time to
recruit his damaged fortunes before the day of
his own marriage came, that was to render him
once more independent, and the possessor of a
fair income.

As to the wife that he was to choose  Valentine
had as yet given the subject but little
thought ; there had been but one woman in
his mind  this morijiuo; she Lad been beyond

his reach ; and now, as he left his cousin's
rooms in Clara-es Street, she was beneath his
contempt. In either case, she was no wife
for him.

Putting Betty (ormond aside  once and forever
 he still made no doubt that in the worhl
to which the golden keys of his great wealth
would now gain him an easy entrance, there
would be many gracious and loving women,
with whom he would think it an honour to
link his life. Only of one thing he was absolutely
determined  no woman who loved nr.t
himself but his reputed gold, shoukl be his
wife. Id deed, as things were, he held a talisman
by Which this fatal mistake was an impossibility
to him. Before he married her he
should put his future wife to a test, which none
but a truly loving woman could go throng !i
safely ; and, thinking of this, he hugged his
secret delightedly to his heart, and wasinclint'd
to bless his uncle for this great power of reading
a woman's heart, with which he had almost
miraculously endowed him  more than for all
the wealth by which his will had enriched
him.

Valentine's first perplexities seemed all !'
have vanished now. He walked along as if on
air. As to Betty, the utter contempt in which
he held her, seemed to erase  for the time at
least  her image out of his fancy ; her conduct
to Oswald seemed to portray her in such thick
colours, that nothing could ever more restore
her to his regard.

As be walked along eastwards, thinking of
these things, making his way on foot towards
JMr Malsham's office, whither he was bound,
walking rather than driving, from force of
the habit of long years, which disinclined him
to make any alteration in the simple little
customs of his every-day life, he became suddenly
conscious, amongst the crowTl of persons
upon the pavement before him, of one couple
in front of him, whose appearance seemed to
sino-le them out at once from the commoner
throng amongst which they were walking.

A lady and gentleman, both tall, and with
a certain grace in the carriage and bearing of
each, were before him. The lady's hair was
gathered in a thick, heavy knot, beneath the
edge of her bonnet, and was black as night ;
the man's was of a venerable grey. Valentine,
with a passing interest which struck into his
mind in the midst of his own absorbing reflections,
judged them to be father and daughter,
as he walked for some minutes close behind
them, he could occasionally see the profile of
one or the other, as they talked. There
was a great similarity in the regular, handsome
features. As he quickened his steps to
pass by them, he overheard the gentleman
say,

'' Suppose he were to go away ? "
And the lady replied soothingly, 
You are always frightening yourself, paja.
Did I not tell you to leave it all to me. I
have taken steps to bring it all right. You

will see that no such catastrophe will happen
to us."

The words conveyed no meaning whatever
to the ears of the chance passer-by who overheard
them. He had passed swiftly by the
couple who had momentarily attracted his
attention, and in another instant would have
been swept away from them by the crowd.
But just then there was a little scuffle behind
him ; a rough man hustled rudely through.
Valentine heard a little exclamation of dismay",
and a small, silver-bound portemonnaie came
spinning along the pavement, in front of this
feet.

He picked it up, and, turning round, came
face to face with the lady, who had made a
step forward to recover her property. Valentine
lifted his hat.

"It is your purse ? "

Yes ; oh, thank you so very much. That
horrid man pushed against me and knocked it
out of my hand as he went by."

Yes ; that is the regular dodge with these
pickpockets," said her father. " I think, my
dear, that you had better get into a cab. It
is really hardly fit for a lady to walk in these'
crowded thoroughfares," he added, looking at
Valentine. Then he put up his stick, and
signalled to a passing hansom.

Meanwhile the young lady turned once
more towards him.

I really must thank you very much, indeed,
for your politeness," she said, lifting

Pure Gold.

u})Oii him two wonderful eyes, whose magic
power seemed to penetrate all at once into this
very soul.

Pray, do not thank me," he said confusedly.
" I did nothing at all ; and  and I
am already more than thanked."

The hansom drew up by the pavement. Valentine
was modest, and did not attempt to offer
his services ; but the elderly gentleman made
no movement, and the young lady gave him a
smile. Somebody evidently must help her
into the cab, and, since her natural protector
remained immoveable, what was Val to do !
Encouraged by that smile, he stepped forward.

'allow me," he said.

She required bnt little assistance, and sprang
lightly into the cab ; but for one instant her
hand pressed gently upon his arm. He
noticed the glitter of some jingling bangles
at lier wrist, felt the soft rustle of her draperies
against his shoulder, smelt a whiff of some
delicate perfume, and for one instant again
caught a glance of those wonderful eyes, and
a smile from those perfect lips, that sent the
blood whizzing curiously and unaccustomed
to his head. For less things than these, a
man has been ready to sell his soul.

In a moment the cab had turned, and this
beautiful vision of a gloriously handsome
woman was whirled away out of his sight.
The two men remaining upon the pavement
lifted their hats politely to each other, and each
went his own way. The elder man pondering

as he walked, upon many practical and wlioUy
unlovely matters.  the younger, with his brain
on fire, and his thoughts in a strange chaos.
It was only when he had gone nearly half a
mile, that he suddenly recollected that he had
not even listened to the address which her
father had given to the cabman.

Fool that I was ! " he exclaimed aloud.
Why did not I have the sense to ask for his
name, or beg: leave to call  or  " and then
he burst out laughing at the extravagance of
the idea.

For, after all, what had he done ? AYliat
claim could he possibly have to have made
such a request ? He had not saved her life 
not even preserved her beautiful person from
the rough shock of the brute who had dared
to hustle up against her. He had only  soli.
descent from the sublime to the ridiculous !
picked up her purse ! Any little dirty child
in the crowd could have done as much. And
yet she had smiled upon him with her lips
and with her eyes  and, good heavens, what
a smile it was !

After that little incident Val certainly transacted
a Q-ood deal of business. He went to
Mr Malsham, and made a good many arrangements
regarding his newly-acquired wealth ;
he furthermore drew a cheque for five
thousand pounds, and paid it in himself to
his cousin's banker's account ; after which, he
visited a tailor in Savile Now, and a hatter in
Bond Street, and paid his respects to sundry

other eminent tradesmen, of whose good offices
he stood sorely in need.

Later on in the afternoon he found himself
again, by appointment, at Oswald Power's
rooms, where many matters, present and
future, were discussed at great length between
the two cousins.

But during all these various occupations,
one thought only was in his mind, one sight
was ever before his eyes  that face of rare
and wonderful beauty that had smiled upon
him in the morning. He even went the
length of sauntering into the Park towards
 o'clock in the afternoon  an occupation
he had always hitherto condemned with bitter
sarcasm  in order that he might carefully scan
the passing carriages, with an insane hope that
he might see again the face that had fascinated
him. But all in vain  he saw" her not. He
could not help smiling to himself over his own
foolishness.

I who used to say that women were not
for me  that I cared nothing; for them ! How
difficult it is to understand one's own nature ! "

Val did not perhaps take sufficiently into
account how entirely altered now were the
circumstances of his life, and that by one turn
of the wheel of fortune. Whereas of old it
had been his creed to avoid and shun women,
it had now become almost his business to seek
them out.

When he found that his search was fruitless,
he went out of the Park, and put himself into

a hansom, and had himself driven out to
Hampstead to dine with his aunt.

Miss Eyre lived in one of those charming
old suburban houses  now, alas ! fast falling
into the hands of speculative builders  of
which there used to be so many hundreds
in the immediate neighbourhood of London.
Years ago this particular house  of a deep redbrick
mellowed by time and weather, and with
narrow windows with grey stone copings like
eyebrows above each  used to be a perfectly
rural residence. It stood on the slope of the
hill below the heath, and looked out over
miles of crowded house-tops towards the distant
cloud of smoke that hung over the great
City of London.

Once there had been green fields and hedgerows
close up to its garden walls ; narrow
lanes, where lovers had lingered on sunny
evenings ; wooden stiles, where children had
loitered to play on their way to the village
school ; copses, where the nightingales had
suns: in the summer, and the cuckoo trilled
forth his double note in the early spring.
But all that was swept away now, and new
roads had been laid out, and smart new villas
built in rows up to the very walls of Miss
Eyre's old-world garden.

Without these walls all was progress and
bustle and disquiet ; within their peaceful
shadow you were at once carried back half a
century. The long lines of thick yew hedges
of an extraordinary depth and solidity, clipped

and trimmed here and there into quaint fantastic
shapes of peacocks and pagodas ; the straight,
prim flower - beds, filled with old - fashioned
blossoms that were neither showy nor gaudy,
yet had a fragrance and tenderness of their
own as they straggled one upon the other at
their own sweet wills ; a couple of gigantic
cedars, spreading their long arms far across
the smooth lawn ; a decrepit yet still abun-
cantle-plentiful mulberry tree, supported by
stakes and tied up with chains to prevent its
falling to the ground ; and at the end the
grave old house, square and solid, looking
solemnly and sadly, as it had done for years,
into the quiet, old garden, over which it had
so long presided.

All this, as one came out of the high-road
through the solid wooden doors in the high
ivy - covered wall, impressed one with an odd
sense of unreality as one crossed the threshold
of Abingdon House ; or rather, it was as if the
world without was a noisy, brawling dream,
and this still, left-behind corner of the earth
the only sober fict of existence.

Abingdon House was Miss Eyre's freehold
property, inherited by her from her
father before her. He had chosen to leave it
to his eldest unmarried daughter rather than
any of his younger children  probably to
insure a special provision and a perpetual
refuge for her, because she was so gentle and
so little capable of fighting her way in the
noisy battle of life.

Ann Eyre was now an old woman, and a
very poor one. The old house and garden was
all that remained to her of former comfort
and position. She lived, with two maids to
serve her, in two or three rooms, shutting up
the remainder. One old man tended the garden
and mowed the lawn ; and the long rows
of stalls in the stables had been untenanted
for years.

Many and many a time Ann Eyre might
have restored herself to comparative wealth
and independence  might have set up her
household gods in one of the smart new
villas below, and kept her brougham and
horse, or have migrated to London, and held
her own there with her equals, had she chosen
to sell Abingdon House and its grounds.
Many a builder and contractor had coveted
its venerable solitudes, to turn it into " eligible
plots of building-ground," or to run up a
fashionable terrace of houses, " with a commanding
view," upon so favoured a site. But
such an idea was desecration in Miss Eyre's
eyes. In vain were tempting offers of the
most advantageous kind presented to her
notice. She had but one answer to give,
and she gave it over and over again, 

My father was born here, and so was my
grandfather. Here my mother came as a
bride. Here did they all die ; and here will
I die too."

But as she grew older it became an anxious
problem to her how, after she was dead and

gone, the old house was to be preserved from
that destruction which these ravening wolves
were thirsting to bring upon it.

This was a question which she had as yet
been unable to answer satisfactorily to herself.

As Valentine came in at the doorway in the
old wall, having stopped his hansom outside 
for he would not have thought of offending
Miss Eyre's prejudices by driving up to the
house, and tearing up her smooth gravel with
the traces of wheels and horse's hoofs  a sense
of peace and rest came over him as he walked
round the corner of the lawn, and came upon
a little encampment of chairs and footstools,
which surrounded a lady who was seated on
the broad stone terrace in front of the open
drawing-room windows. It was as though
some voice whispered to his soul, 

'* Leave behind all the turmoil and confusion
of the busy world all ye who enter
here."

Miss Eyre  a small, grey-haired woman,
with a gentle face and eyes that, owing to
fast-failing eyesight, were a little wandering
and uncertain in their glances, half rose
from her chair as her nephew appeared round
the corner of the house.

There was unfeigned delight in her welcome
of this her only relation.

Ah ! my dear boy," she cried, holding out
both hands to greet him, " so you are here
again ? So, though this great news about
your wealth is not yet twenty-four hours old,

you have come down again to see an old
woman ? Riches have not turned your heart,
nephew"

Why should they, Aunt Ann ? " answered
the young man, laughingly, as he took a vacant
chair beside her. *' They do not at all events
interfere with my appetite ; and I have come
to beg for dinner. Will you give me some ? "

'' Surely, surely. Fenella, go and tell cook
ah ! where is that girl ? " and she half
turned round in her chair, and peered about,
as if she had expected to find some one behind
her.

Miss Snow is not here, aunt."

She really is an irritating girl," said Miss
Eyre.

One wants a companion to keep one company
; at least that I understand is the
meaning of the word. This child is always
dancing away like a will-o'-the-wisp. Fenella !
Fenella ! "

From the shadows of the room behind them
with the open windows, a Aoice answered, 

I am here."

A WOMAN Scorned.

Seventeen years ago, when
Ann Eyre was still comparatively
lXJ a young woman, and during the
*~ time when her father was alive,
and reigned at Abingdon House, she was
returning on foot, with her maid behind
her, about nine o'clock, one snowy evening in
January, from some mild festivity at a neighbouring
house, when, on arriving at the threshold
of her father's gate, she stumbled, and
almost fell over a bundle that was laid upon
the doorstep. In great surprise she stooped
down, and found to her astonishment that the
stumbling-block in her path was nothing less
than a very small female child, rolled up ina
ragged blanket, and seemingly nearly frozen
to death.

To so kind-hearted a woman as Ann there
was only one thing to be done. A few
words of astonishment and compassion
passed between herself and her maid, and

then they carried the little waif into the
house.

The child was about three sears of age.
AVhen it recovered consciousness and animation,
it was found to be able to prattle a few
indistinct words, but was totally unable to give
any account of itself. Mr Eyre, the father,
did his best to discover who were the rightful
owners of the little foundlings. He gave information
to all the police stations round, offered
rewards, and put advertisements in all the
newspapers. Nothing, however, resulted from
these inquiries ; and after about three weeks
he yielded to his daughter's entreaties, and
consented to allow her to adopt the child, or,
at all events, to undertake the charge of it
until its relations should be discovered.

The child, warmed, and fed, and clothed,
began to develop pretty little ways and engaging
manners. It was found that she called
herself, in her baby lingo, " Pinna," and as
no known annie could be hunted up exactly to
correspond with this curious appellation, Ann
fixed upon the name of " Fenella," as the
nearest approach to it, and which was probably
suggested by Scott's " Several of the Peak,"
which she happened to be reading at the time.
Her little foundling (for fear of accidents) was
accordingly properly christened in the parish
church under this name. And then because it
was necessary to give her a surname, she called
her " Snow," in allusion to the white world in
which she had found her.

So Fenella Snow grew up and became a regular
inmate of Abingdon House. Miss Eyre
soon left off thinking of the chance of discovering
her parents, and after a few years she
would have been very sorry to have done so.
By-and-by she sent FenelJa to school, and
gave her a good, sound, old-fashioned education.
Afterwards, as she was growing old, and her
eyesight began to fail her, Miss Eyre told her
that instead of making her an allowance of
pocket-money, she would give her a fixed
salary, and call her her companion, and that
she should expect her to make herself useful
in that capacity to her.

Whatever Fenella thought about this arrangement,
she said very little about it  not
being given to many words  but she probably
reflected that " beggars mustn't be choosers,"
and submitted to the inevitable. Ann sometimes
complained of her companion, and
scolded her grumblingly, but she loved her
dearly, and willingly forgave her any little remissness
in her attentions. Miss Eyre was by
this time convinced that no discovery concerning
Fenella's relations could possibly be to
her benefit  she was undoubtedly the child ot
paupers, whose poverty had caused them to
forsake her, either to be taken in out of charity
at the door at which they had laid her
down  or else to perish of cold and starvation
as the case might be. But as to Fenella there
were no end to her dreams, and castles in the
air concerning herself  she had no doubt whatever

in her own mind that she was the child of
rich and noble parents, a sort of princess in
disguise, who would one day be revealed to the
astonished eyes of her little world in her true
colours. And constant indulgence in these
fancies caused her to regard her kind benefactress
less with feelings of gratitude than with
a sort of condescending submission to what,
after all, must be but a mere temporary phase
of her existence.

Fenella Snow, as she appeared in answer to
Miss Eyre's call at the open window, with the
dusky gloom of the darkening room behind
her, was by no means a revelation in any way
to Valentine. She was a small person, with
a tiny waist and diminutive hands and feet ;
her features were doll-like, and rather pretty ;
and her eyes, which were light grey, where
restless, and had a trick of roving about uneasily,
never fixing themselves upon anything
that they looked at. The most remarkable
part of her perhaps was her hair. It was very
light in colour, and so flufi'y in texture that it
stood out from her head in a soft impalpable
cloud, which in certain lights almost reminded
one of the aureole surrounding the head of a
saint. There was not, however, much of the
saint about her.

Valentine Eyre lifted his hat to her. She
v\'as not exciting' or interesting to him in an'
way. As long as he could remember Abingdon
House she had always formed a part of it
ever since he had lived in London, he had
VOL. I. L

oaten his Sunday dinner sitting face to face
with this little person with flutFy hair. He
had paid her the ordinary small civilities of
life  had filled her wineglass, had helped her
to vegetables, and had risen to open the door
for her when she left the room  beyond this
he had taken very little notice of his aunt's
protegee. He took very little notice of her
now ; when he lifted his hat Fenella glanced
at him in her quick way, but her eyes
wandered away again instantly across the
garden.

Fenella, my dear, go and tell cook that my
nephew will dine with us this evening."

"Yes, Miss Eyre."

Fenella went away, but by-and-by she
crept softly back to the sitting-room, and sat
down behind the shadow of the faded maroon
curtains, leaning her head back against the
shutters. Outside, Miss Eyre and her nephew
were talking in subdued voices ; the twilight
stole over the garden with its sombre yew
hedges and cedars.' Their backs were turned
to her ; to do her justice, Miss Snow had at first
no intention of playing the spy. It did not
occur to her that there was anything particular
which the old lady might have to say to her
nephew. She often sat silently by whilst they
talked, listening to them when they seemed to
have forgotten her presence. This evening, as
she sat down in her corner by the window, she
only said to herself,  " Here, I shall at least
hear the sound of his voice ! "

And for some minutes she was actually unconscious
of the subject of their conversation ;
suddenly, however, she started and listened,
for she heard her own name.

"It is Venetia Snow that troubles me most,"
Miss Eyre was saying.

My dear aunt, can you not do as you
like with your own ? Why not leave the
old house to her ? "

No, no, Val ; it should go to an Eyre.
Your grandfather and your great-grandfather
died here. I have hesitated and debate
much all the time you were a poor man, for
I felt I had no right to saddle you with a
property that I should forbid you to sell, and
yet that I could not leave you money enough
to keep up properly. It is, you know, my
greatest wish, that the dear old house should
remain as it is  my greatest terror, that after
I am gone it may be cut up, and sold to those
horrible, wicked builders and land agents.
But now that you have become a rich man,
half my perplexities seem cleared away, for,
of course, you could afford to open the wdioh
house, and do it up properly ; and you will
live in it sometimes, too, will you not \ "

This last was anxiously said.

I would rather you did not count on
that," said Val, hesitatingly. " I might not
be able to spend much money on it ; there
are so many other claims ; so much, in fact,
to be done. There are things connected with
my cousin Oswald Power."

He seemed unable quite to explain himself ;
lie was, in fact, debating in his own mind
tvhetber, upon the reduced income which he
Avould have to live upon at his marriage, he
would be justified in undertaking to keep
up and inhabit a rambling old house in the
suburbs, which he would be forbidden to
sell, and which would certainly be an encumbrance
mither than a benefit to him. The old
lady looked at him with a painful anxiety.

You do not mean, Val  oh. surely you
do not mean !  that you would rather not
be troubled with the old house  the house
1 love so dearly  where I was born, and where
T mean to die % "

Her voice trembled, and broke. Val put
forth his hand.

My dear, dearest aunt, do not accuse me
of such heartlessness If you are good enough
to leave Abingdon House to me, I will, of
course, value the gift, and love the dear old
place."

In his own mind he rapidly came to the
conclusion that to gratify this whim of his
aunt's, he must make Abingdon House his
home, in lieu of a house actually in London,
when he came south. His wife surely, if she
loved him truly, would not object to this. It
was wonderful with how much patience and
consideration Valentine endued this future
bride of his !

I think I could manage to promise you
this much  that it shall be kept in good repair,

and that I will live in it for some montis
in every year," he added, still thinking it over
deeply in his mind. " But then," he sais],
looking up with a smile, " what about Fenella
Snow, Aunt Ann ? "

Ah, there is the question ! and that is
what troubles me. Fenella is a grave anxiety
to me."

They were both silent for the space of twa >
or three minutes. Fenella, behind them, in
the shadows, bent her head forward eagerly.
Perhaps, indeed, there where innate evidences
in her character which proved too surely to
Miss Eyre that Fenella was of no exalted
birth. It did not, for instance, occur to
her to see anything mean or base in her
conduct at the present moment. There was
something going to be said about her, and
Fenella felt curious to know what it was ;
so she kept very still, and went on listening.


There is a way," resumed Miss Eyre,
presently, with a certain amount of hesitation,
'' a way I have thought of that would
certainly be a most happy solution of all my
difficulties."

Yes, aunt ? "

Valentine's voice betrayed no absorbing
interest.

You know, my dear boy, that Fenella
has lived here all her life. She has known
no other home  has no other memories ; and
although her origin is probably very humljl(%

she has been so completely deserted by her
friends that it is absolutely impossible that any
unpleasant connections should ever turn up
after all these years to annoy us. In point of
ftict, I have brought her up as my child, and
as such I consider her."

Certainly, and she does you credit,"
answered the young man, knowing that praise
of her foundling gave the old lady pleasure.

And Fenella's heart beoan to beat.

Yes ; does she not ? " said Miss Eyre,
eagerly. " She is a dear child, and pretty
and pleasing, good enough for any position,
Aral," looking at him very earnestly. " 1
should like Fenella Snow to live here always."

Well, aunt, that can be easily managed.
Leave her a life-interest in the place ; or, if
you like it better, make me her landlord. I
will keep it in repair for her, and she shall
be my tenant for the remainder of her life."

Oh, Yal, Val ! you do not understand me ; "
and Miss Eyre shook her head. " There is
something better than that that I wish for
her, and for you ; something that would make
hoe happy  so happy, that I should have no more
Y\ orgies and anxieties ; I should die in peace."

Dear Aunt Ann, if there is anything that
I can do that can give you this happiness and
peace, do you not know that I would do it
gladly. In all these years of my poverty
jive you not been my only friend, your house
my only home ? Am I likely to forget you,
now that I am prosperous ?"

He reached out his strong, young hand, and
the old Lady priced hers, thin and wrinkled,
within it.

Ah ! " she said, with a sigh, *' you area
good lad, but this is asking much  ver'
much ; and yet," she added, more brightly,
after a moment's pause  " and yet, why not \
You are both young ; you have known eacJi
other for years, and, vain old woman that 1
am, I think you both love me ! Valentine,
will you marry Fenella Snow ? "

A dead silence. The little summer breeze,
fluttered the roses upon the walls ; a bait
circled round on heavy wing; ; a nio;htinoak
took up his parable, and warbled his first love-notes
away in the lime trees beyond the lawn,
but Valentine Eyre made no answer, and all the
time one half-suffocating heart beat wildly and
madly in an agony of suspense behind him.

And Val was thinking Last night, had bliss
Eyre said this thug to him, he would have
consented. Last night he had merely thought
to himself that a wife was a necessity and a
duty to him ; and Betty Urmoud being beyond
his reach, any sweet, gentle girl wh(
would be likely to love him, and be true
to him, would have answered his purpose,
he would have been glad to do this simple,
easy thing that should give his good old relative
so much pleasure, and, as she had said,
enable her to die in peace. For no doubt
Fenella was all she had said, and more. She
had been brought up in absolute seclusion by

a good and high-principled gentlewoman  all
sweet old-fashioned virtues, such as were rare
in the throng of London life, must surely be
hers. No doubt she was modest and gentle
and true, a girl who would give her heart for
love, not sell herself for gold.

Yal felt sure that had this proposition come
to him only yesterday, he would have accepted
it gladly and gratefully. But to-day
all was altered. A face in a crowd  a smile ;
a murmur of thanks ; a glance from deep lustrous
eyes  just that, and it had changed the
whole current of his being. He did not even
know her name, but his soul had; gone forth
in worship and adoration. Wherever she
might dwell, whoever she might be, he would
find her out, and lay his life at her feet. Such
a, face must mean to him all he sought for on
earth ! Until his aunt had spoken, until she
]had given that ideal " wife " a name and a
being;, and had offered him little Fenella Snow
until that moment Yal had had no special
intention or determination ; but now, at her
words, the scales seemed to fall from his eyes,
and his heart rose up in denial of the wife she
suggested to him.

No, whilst that woman who was surely all a
man might dream of  Venus, Juno, and Minerva
in one  whilst she existed somewhere in
the vague unknown of London's infinite possibilities,
never should any other image, save
hers, occupy the vacant heart which her beauty
had filled in one moment unto overflowing.

He sat quite still, whilst one might count
twenty, then he spoke slowly, and with
.difficulty, 

You have asked me a hard thing, Aunt
Ann."

Ah, say no more, Yal ! " she said, quickly,
and with some pain in her voice. " I see that
it cannot be. I am a foolish old woman to
have dreamed of it. Perhaps you do not like
the child, or perhaps there is some other ? "

But Yal would not speak of that vague
intangible " some one " who had filled his
imagination.

'nay, why should I not like Fenella?" he
answered, smiling. " She is all that you say,
no doubt  pretty and gentle and sweet-mannered.
Perhaps I have seen her too often,
and studied her too little, or perhaps  We
Eyes are proud, you know, aunt. You yourself
are not free from the family failing. Perhaps
I would prefer a wife of whose parentage
one could feel more assured than of that of
your little protegee. Man is a strange animal,
you know, and is often ungratefully unwilling
to take the good things that fate is ready to
shower on him ; but do not regret it too much
possibly you think me a richer man than,
in certain things, I am."

He spoke lightly, meaning to turn the current
of the old lady's evident disappointment.
Unseen by them both, there was a movement
uf the maroon curtains behind them. Fenella
left her hiding-place, and fled. -

Then you decidedly decline Fenella as a
wife ? " said Miss Eyre, after a pause.

*' I am afraid so, aunt. But if you will
trust me, Miss Snow shall never want for
anything as long as I am alive''

*' I will trust you, nephew ; " and Miss Eyre
reached forth her hand to him. " It is not
good for us to have all our prayers granted.
And now let us go in, for it is getting cold,
and it must be nearly dinner-time."

Dinner was perhaps never a very lively
meal at Abingdon House, but to-night, certainly,
it was even more depressing than
usual.

The small table, laid for three, seemed lost
in the middle of the vast wilderness of the
great bare dining-room, where thirty people
might have feasted with ease. The footsteps
of the ancient waiting-maid  the same who
had helped her mistress on that snowy night,
now seventeen years ago, to carry in the little
human bundle laid upon the doorstep  were
slow and ponderous. She had grown grey,
too, poor old Bridget, and was now almost
too infirm for the many functions she performed
in the impoverished household to
which she still clung with faithful affection.
For Bridget was housemaid or lady's-maid or
parlour-maid, just as the occasion served. The
fare was plain, and not over plentiful ; the
wine thin and poor. A few flowers in an old-fashioned
china bowl adorned the centre of the
table, across which Yal looked at Fenella with



a greater amount of interest than usual, owing
to his recent conversation with his aunt concerning
her. But he found no reason to regret
his decision regarding her. Miss Snow wis
certainly even less entertaining than usual.
she kept her eyes studiously away from him,
and ate her dinner in silence.

He was therefore a good deal surprised upon
leaving the table, when, instead of following
Miss Eyre into the drawing-room, Fenella
came up to him and said, 

'' It is a fine evening, Mr Eyre ; will you
take a turn round the garden with me before
you go ? "

Certainly, ]bliss Snow," he answered
promptly, but with evident astonishment. He
threw up the sash of the window', and they
went out together.

It was now quite dark ; but in the gloom of
the old garden the broad gravel walk that led
round the clump of cedars could be just
faintly discerned. Fenella and her companion
followed it in silence for some minutes. When
they came quite under the darkness of the
cedars, Fenella stopped short, and said suddenly,


I overheard what you and Miss Eyre were
talking about before dinner."
Miss Snow ! "

*' Miss Eyre asked you if you would marry
me, and you declined."

You should not have listened ! " cried
Valentine, with indignation.

'* Perhaps not," she answered calmly ; " but
you see I did."

I would not have pained you for worlds,
had I known," stammered Val.

Had you known that I was listening ? 
was that what you were going to say ?
Never mind that ; I want to tell you something.
You told her  your aunt  that you
would not marry me because you were uncertain
of my parentage."

Val was silent.

'' I want to tell you that if you chose to
help me, we might overcome tluit difficulty.
I am convinced, in my own mind, that I am
of good birth ; I feel it here "  she struck
her hands against her breast. " I have only
one clue, a locket that was hung upon a hair
chain round my neck ; it is my greatest
treasure ; with money, I am certain that the
mystery of my birth might be cleared up.
Miss Eyre has never been able to make the
effort ; but you  I hear you are rich now  "

If there is anything I can do for you. Miss
Snow, in this matter," cried Val eagerly, '* believe
me, I would spare no expense to help
you in your researches ; but  "

But  it would make no difference to you,
you mean ? " she asked, with perfect quietness.

Val could not frame his lips to a suitable
answer. She walked on again in silence ;
presently she stopped again.

Then that was not your real reason ? " lie
asserted, rather than inquired.

Not entirely," he murmured. Could any
unfortunate man, he said to himself, be placed
in a more terrible predicament than he was at
this moment ! Val felt as if that sweep of the
gravel walk would never bring him back again
to the shelter of the house with its lighted
windows  he looked longinslv towards it.

A\\ at once his companion s manner altered,
although he could not see her face, he felt
instinctively that all the coldness and the
self-control was gone out of it  her voice
broke ; she laid upon his arm a hand that
trembled and shook.

There is one thing you do not know. I
speak to you little ; I do not seem to interest
you much ; but there is one thing that must
alter everything to you  that has grown with
my growth and lived with my life  Valentine
]pyre  / love you ! "

He was positively startled by the passion in
her voice  a passion he had never indeed
dreamt of or suspected. He could not at
first find words to answer her. When he did,
he spoke slowly, and with difficulty.

I cannot describe to you the pain  the
distress  which what you say causes me."

And then in the darkness he knew that the
whole woman was altered once more ; the
tenderness, the emotion, had vanished ; a
(juice, haughty anger took its place.

But you reject me ; you scorn me ! Save
yourself the pain, and me the humiliation of
regret ! Some day you will be sorry ; you

Pure Gold.

will repent in very truth that you were blind
enough and mad enough to turn the love that
Fenella Snow offers you into deadly hatred."

And she turned and find from him swiftly
in the darkness.

MRS MAL sham's " S W R R yJ

;HE household in Kensington Garden
Square was in a ferment of agitation.
All day long there were
tradesmen's carts dashing up to
the area gate, and confectioners bearing
mysterious trays on their heads seen disappearing
down the area steps ; strange parcels
were stealthily taken in at the front door, and
whole groves of palms and ferns were carried
into the house. Indoors all was excitement
and confusion, the footman and the maids
rushed about breathlessly ; workmen where in
the drawing-room moving the furniture ; sirs
Malsham, caphss and red in the face, ran up
and downstairs, divino: manifold orders and
directions ; the young ladies, up in their bedrooms,
were surveying with delight the new
dresses just home from the dressmakers ; whilst
upstairs and downstairs, above and below, the
air was redolent of a strong unctuous odour of

rich foods of divers kinds in the process of being
cooked. For that evening Mrs Malsham
was to give a large dinner-party, at which
eighteen guests were to sit down at the festive
board, to be followed at a later hour by, what
the good lady impressively called, a " s worry."

And all this was in honour of Valentine
Eyre. It was for him the fatted calf was slain;
for him the entrees and the ices and the jellies
from Bridgeman's kept pouring down the area;
for him the hired waiters at ten-and-sixpence
per night had been engaged ; for his sake that
great and small were slaving; and toiling; from
attic to cellar, from sunrise to sundown.

Valentine Eyre had now been for six weeks
in possession of his fortune. All the law business
had been settled ; all the legacy duties
had been paid. There was nothing more for
him to do but to set to work to enjoy himself
and to spend his money  and, to a certain
extent, he did so.

The London season was in full swing, and
Valentine was now quite established in the
comfortable rooms in Clarges Street that had
belonged to Oswald Power  that gentleman
having migrated to Cragstone Edge. He had
bought a great many clothes and cigars and
trinkets ; he had set up a brougham and a
buggy, two harness horses, and a park hack ;
he had returned a countless number of cards
which had come pouring in upon him from all
directions, and he had accepted manifold invitations
to the houses of persons he had never

//

heard of in his life before. And with all
that his head was not in the very least bit
turned. He began to understand, with a frightful
plainness, that it was his money and not
himself that was being: courted and sought
after, and the comprehension of this fact
aroused in him an immense contempt for the
smiling world that opened its arms so cordially
to receive him. And yet though he despised
it, he did not turn his back upon it. On the
contrary, he took what it offered him as part
of the necessary duty which he had set himself
to fulfil, for he said to himself that somewhere
surely amongst all these fair and well-born
women he should meet that one woman who
must be as guileless and pure as she was
beautiful, and who would love him for himself
and not for his gold. Neither did his money
make him happy. On the contrary, the consciousness
of his wealth was at times an absolute
oppression to him. When he remembered his
cousin banished to that lonely tower in the
north, and working there as his paid agent, it
often seemed to him as if he were committing
some crime, in not hastening on with greater
speed that day which was to mete out equal
justice to them both.

Great riches, without contentment, what
is it ? " said our philosopher to himself, wondering
vaguely whether he had not been happier
on the whole in the days when he sat in Mr
Malsham's office on a high stool, and earned a
hundred and twenty pounds a-year.

VOL. I. M

Now in these days it was that Richard
iVIalsham said to the wife of his bosom, 

'' If you don't keep a hold on that young
man he will slip through our fingers altogether.
There are no end of swells after him already,
and if Bella don't look sharp she'll be out of
it."

She's working night and day at a sot of
antimacassars for him," said Mrs Marshal.
'' I'm sure if he bought them at the School of
Art in South Kensington they couldn't be
more beautifully worked, not if he paid five
guineas a-piece for them."

Pooh ! what's that to him ? He could buy
dozens at fifty guineas each if he wanted them.
A man don't care for antimacassars ; if you
want to get at his heart, give him a first-class
dinner."

Mrs Malsham took these hints concerning
the weak point in the masculine armour in good
part, and the result was an invitation to dinner,
to be followed by "a few friends in the evening,"
which Val, with a kindly feeling towards
his old master and present man of business,
was careful to accept. Instantly more invitations
flew out all over the town, and by the
time the eventful day arrived, Mrs Malsham
was in the proud hope of receiving a select party
of eighteen to dinner, and a party  not at all
select  of some hundred and fifty persons to
the entertainment in the evening, which was
to follow in the wake of the banquet.

Of course, Val took down Bella to dinner,

and was seated between her and her mother  
in fact, there was a regular Malsham fortification
on every side of him, for young Albert
Malsham was planted exactly opposite to him,
whilst between an opening of the ferns and
exotics further down the table the head of
Bella's younger sister was constantly to be
seen, nodding playfully and archly towards
him.

I have nearly finished them," said Bella,
in a mysterious whisper to him between tlu'-
mouthfuls of her soup.

Yes ? " very doubtfully.

Oh, you naughty man, I believe you forget
all about them  what you asked me to
make for you."

For the life of him Val couldn't remember.

May I come to your rooms and see if they
fit some day ? You know, everything depends
on the fit."

You are very good," murmured Yal, ** and
I am very stupid. But was it socks  or a
waistcoat you are knitting for me ? "

'soh, Mr Eyre!" Up went Bella's fan
before her face, and she went through a sort
of pantomimic action with lowered eyelids,
which any bright-witted young man should
have recognised as an indication of maiden
blushes  only that Yal was obtuse, and seeing
no blushes, only gazed at her in blank
amazement.

Oh, you naughty bad man ! " continued
Miss Malsham, breaking; into a series of little

o-io-grles ; "do you think I should be so improper
as to want to come to your rooms
to try on such things. Oh ! how shocking !
(good gracious ! what would mamma think
if she heard you ! She is so very particular
about us girls  but, dear me, you
really are too, too funny ! " and Bella's
giggles became almost hysterical.

At length however, she managed to convey to
Vas comprehension the great fact that fourteen
antimacassars, worked in different coloured
silks, awaited his gracious acceptance, if only
she and mamma might come to tea at his
rooms to fit them on to the chairs. Poor
Val, with innocent unconsciousness, fell into
the trap thus skilfully laid, and promised to
name an early day for a combination of afternoon
tea and the exhibition of the antimacassars.


Then he was surprised to find that he was
an object of attention and deferential respect to
the assembled guests. An old man, whom he
had never seen before, asked his opinion upon
some topic of the day across the table, and
listened politely, amidst a profound silence,
for the few words that fell from his lips in
answer ; " but after all," added Val hastily,
not relishing this general observation of which
he seemed to be the object, ''I know next to
nothing about politics."

'rare you not going into Parliament?"
murmured Bella at his side  for Bella had her
dny-dreams.

No  why should I ? " he replied, in some
surprise.

"Papa seemed to think you would, with
your fortune, and large interest in land."

Really ! No, I haven't thought of it."

I am a Liberal," volunteered Bella. " I
always have been, you know", because papa
and Albert are  and because I think Mr
Gladstone has such an interesting face."

You have indeed very excellent reasons for
your political creed, Miss Malsham," replied
Yal, witli the ghost of a smile at the corners
of his mouth.

And what are you ? " queried Bella, encouraged
by this reply.
"I ?  oh, I am nothing ! "

Nothing ! Do you mean to say you have
no opinions  no idea even in politics ? Is
there nothing on earth that you long for or
seek after ? "

Yes, there is something, but it has nothing
to do with politics," said Yal, smiling.

Bella dropped her eyelids. His voice was
significant. What would he answer her ?

Dear me, Mr Eyre ! what can that something
be ? " she inquired, with a conscious smile.

The Philosopher's Stone." answered Yal.

Bella looked up with a start. It was not at
all the answer which she had expected.

I wonder what you mean ? " she said, with
a puzzled look. " I thought you had that. Is
it not the power of turning everything into
gold  does it not mean money ? ''

Pure Gold.

No ; it is something very different  it
is the secret of happiness," answered Val
gravely.

Now this reply was far above Bella's head ;
she was widely out of her depth. She remembered
her mother's injunctions. She had told
Tier to make as much way with the rich young
man as she could at dinner time.

'' You may never have such a chance again,"
her mother had said to her; 'rand a clever
girl like you ought to know how to make use
of your opportunity."

It seemed to Bella that she had now an
excellent opening for a word in season that
might be very much to the point.

Of course I've always heard you are very
(clever and scientific and all that, Mr Eyre,"
she said, with a pretty vagueness, which Val
acknowledged by an absent bow; 'but it
seems to me that it takes two to make happiness
; and any woman  who  who cared
about you  would be too glad, would she
not, to help you ? For your sake she would
gladly change her own opinions to adopt yours
if she cared for you, you know. She would
be charmed  "

Val looked at her in alarm. He had not
forgotten the shame and the humiliation of a
certain scene in a shadowy garden some six
weeks ago, when a woman whom he had always
treated with respect and honour had lowered
herself for ever in his eyes. There had been
a ring of passion, however, in the broken

words of that avowal, unwomanly though it
had been ; but was Bella Malsham about to
renew his experiences of that evening of pain
here in the full glare of the gaslight at her
fathers dinner-table ? He felt unfeignedly
thankful that Mrs Malsham at that very
moment gave the signal for the ladies to leave
the room.

"All women are charming, he said, lightly,
as he pushed back Miss Malsham's chair for
her ; " but I have never had the presumption
to ask any woman to change her opinions for
my sake."

Some women might have considered these
words to be sufficiently crushing. Not so
Bella Malsham, whose unbounded faith in
herself rendered her incapable of suppression.


Her mother found time to whisper a word
to her as they went upstairs.

Well, my love, what success ? You seemed
getting on famously." "

Oh, mamma, I don't know what to say !
He has just told me he wasn't presumptuous
enough to ask me to change my opinions for
his sake."

He said thcit did he ? My dear, I consider
it as good as a proposal ! " cried her
mother, trembling with excitement.

Oh, but mamma, he is so shy ; and then
you got up."

If I had only known I'd have waited a
bit longer! But never mind, Bella  no man

is so shy as all that ; and if he isn't presumptuous
yet, depend upon it, he means to be
soon. He can't draw back after saying as
much as that. How pleased your papa will
be ! All you've got to do is to bring him to
the point. If you are clever you'll bring it off
to-night. I'm sure I don't grudge all the expense
and turn-out one bit if it has led to
this. You are a lucky girl, Bella."

But Bella's luck, such as it was, was at an
end for that night. Every dog, we are told,
has his day, and Bella's day was over.

The great entertainment was hastening to
its climax  guests came pouring in in long
trains  fat mothers followed by slim daughters
 fathers of families, who devoutly wished
themselves in their beds, and sons who looked
bored, and wondered how soon they could get
away. The company was decidedly mixed 
the Malsham friends and acquaintances were
slightly second-rate ; but then again, the business
connections, Mr Malsham's clients, were
of a better class. Mr Malsham was much
respected by many of them, who entertained
for him an unbounded confidence, and even in
some cases a real affection. They made a point
of attending his wife's evening party, and were
glad enough to come to meet each other, and
to eat an excellent supper, and to entertain
themselves by quizzing those worthy people
who were not in their "set," and whose dress
and manners afforded them considerable amusement.


When the gentlemen came np from the
dining-room, the drawing-rooms presented a
very respectable crowd, and a professional
gentleman was tuning his fiddle in preparation
of a duet with a lady pianist, who was already
seated at her post.

Val stood in the doorway between the two
rooms, almost at the very spot where he had
stood wedged in on that other occasion, now
so far removed from his present existence,
when he had been poor and friendless, and
when Mrs Malsham had rebuked her daughter
for desiring to sneak to a young man, who
was " only one of her father's clerks." Val
was thinking; of that evening; now. To-night
everybody smiled at him, and made much of
him. Mrs Malsham constantly addressed him ;
she prayed him to come further into the room,
to get into a better place for hearing the music,
and asked anxiously if he wished to be introduced
to any one ; but Val declined her kind
offices, and preferred to remain where he
was.

A constant stream of guests was coming up
the staircase behind him, and every other
minute their names were announced loudly
or softly, according to the music going on in
the front room. An Italian lady had just
finished a bravura song  the last '' tra-la-la,"
had died away amongst a chorus of applause
from the company  when two ladies standing
close in front of Val  and whose view of
the ascending throng up the stairs was more

uninterrupted than his own  remarked to each
other in a perfectly audible tone, 

Goodness  here comes one of the beauties !
Old Malsham is in luck to-night I "

The other put up her eyeglass  "Madeline
Abbott, by all that is wonderful ! and how well
she looks to-night ; she has quite recovered
that last little affair seemingly."

Madeline Abbott ! where had Val heard that
name before ? it struck familiarly on his ear.
Then suddenly he remembered  Cragstone
Mere  the little boat, Betty Ormond leaning
on her glistening oars, and saying to him 
' You ought to know Madeline Abbott  she
is perfect, so gentle and womanly, and so free
from those sordid motives which you despise
in me ; she is so good, that no wonder people
run after her and admire her."

Poor Betty ! she had no high standard of
truth and honour herself evidently ; but, at all
events, she had a generous soul, and could
admire goodness and high-mindedness in others
when she came across it ! Val felt a vague
curiosity to see this fashionable beauty, whom'
Betty had described with such enthusiasm as a
being so superior to herself and her surroundings
 he craned his neck backwards to catch
a sight of the new comers.

Colonel and Miss Abbott," announced
the waiter, with a loud and careful aspiration ;
and Valentine saw the heroine of his little
adventure in Piccadilly.

He had looked for her everywhere  in parks

and picture galleries, at the theatres and the
opera ; he had haunted every public place
where it had seemed to him that a beautiful
woman of fashion should be found, and had
gone to every house where he had been invited,
in the hope of coming across her at some one
of them. And now, without any trouble or
effort of his own, he saw her walking into Mr
Malsham's drawing-room, where it was very
possible that she might have been on that
other occasion years ago, when he had stood
unknown and unnoticed in that self-same
corner. If so  how strange were the threads
of life that seemed to be drawing these two
existences together.

For a moment his heart beat, and his head
went round, then he stood transfixed drinking
in her beauty. If she had seemed to him to
be lovely beyond words, in her simple black
bonnet and cloak in the crowded street, when
she had turned and thanked him  how incomparably
greater was the effect she produced
upon him now, as she stood arrayed in full
dress, with every perfected detail of lace and
jewels and flowers, that can serve to heighten
and enhance the beauty of a beautiful woman.
Her dress, of the palest pink satin, was smothered
in old lace ; there were diamonds at her throat
and ears, and in the dark coils of her wonderful
hair. Madeline had bought a few more new
dresses than usual of late ; her dear father, she
told her friends, had made a little money  had
written a successful article in a magazine  the

editor had behaved handsomely  that was
what the friends were told. Madeline and
her father knew better where a certain mysterious
cheque for five thousand pounds had
come from ; and as to Valentine Eyre, had
his eyes been only miraculously opened, he
might perhaps have even thrown a still further
light upon the subject.

But the immediate result to Madeline,
amongst many other things, was that fairy-like
pink garment in which she burst that evening
upon Valentine's enraptured eyes.

Bella's voice at his elbow aroused him from
a state of adoring contemplation of the vision
that had just entered the room.

Mr Eyre, you really look quite dull and
lonely in this corner ; this will never do  won't
you come and talk to somebody ; or is there
anybody you would like to be introduced to ?
You know," in a confidential whisper, " I
should like so much to stop and talk to 3'OU
myself, but I have so many people to attend to."

'' I should very much like to be introduced
to that lady who has just come in," said Val,
boldly. '' Miss Madeline Abbott."

Oh, Madeline Abbott ! Oh yes, if you like,
certainly," with a vestige of pique iu her voice ;
she is very beautiful, of course ; but don't be
led away by appearances, Mr Eyre  gentlemen
tell me she is very difficult to get on
with."

I think I like that," answered Val, not
without a spice of malice in his mind.

Miss Abbott, ]mr Eyre Aisles to be introduced
to you."

Valentine boYed ; but Madeline put forth
her hand.

'' I think we have met before," she said,
with a delightful smile. " It was you, was it
not, who picked up my purse ? "

UNDER THE SPELL.

OU must come and see us, Mr
Eyre," said Madeline to Valentine
at a later hour of the
evening, when they found themselves
seated side by side in the dining-room,
now converted as if by magic into the scene
of a sumptuous supper. He had not left her
side the whole evening. Once he had murmured
a half-hearted apology.

I have no right to appropriate you like
this ; there must be so many others who want
to talk to you."

Oh, never mind the others. Everybody
here to-night would bore me. Please do not
go away."

So Val, nothing loth, stayed by her.

You must come and see us," she said, " or
1 suppose the proper thing would be for papa
to leave a card on you first. Where do you
live?"

"At 90 Clarges Street."

"What! Mr Power's rooms?" she exclaimed,
a little off her guard.

Yes ; he is my cousin. Do you know
him ? "

She looked at him half a minute before she
answered. Did he know anything ? she wondered.
But his eyes met hers frankly and
smilingly. No ; it was unlikely that the
cousin who had supplanted him should be
in Oswald's confidence.

Oh yes," she replied, '' we know Mr
Power. Has he left town ? Where is he ? "

She seemed absorbed in the jelly on her
plate.

Ah ! poor fellow ! " said Val, with a half
sigh, " he was in trouble. He has left London
for a time. Would it not seem a cruel
aggravation of fortune to you, Miss Abbott,
that a man should lose in one day not only
the hope of great wealth, but also his faith ina
woman whom he had believed to be true and
good ? "

Madeline's heart began to beat.

Is that what has happened to poor Mr
Power ? " she inquired, struggling hard so that
her voice should be calm and unconcerned.

I hope he would not think I was betraying
his confidence by saying this to you. But
you know him ; and you are so sympathetic.
Perhaps, too, you are aware of the circumstances
? "

No, indeed ; but you interest me. Did

he tell you of  of any woman ? Who was
it?"

Ah ! no. He would not hove told me
her name. Men do not mention women's
names, Miss Abbott, when they discuss these
things together. It was but a few words he
told me, A girl he loved  whom he believed
loved him in return, and who wrote and threw
him over, because our uncle's money was left
to me instead of to him. "What do you think
of that, Miss Abbott ? "

'' Oh, it is perhaps not true  "

Yes ; because I saw her letter," admitted
Yal, incautiously.

You  saw  her letter ? " she repeated,
falteringly.

It was hardly a letter  a mere unsigned
scrap  a dozen words  but sufficient to break
a man's heart. What a base creature that
woman must be ! "

Some feeling of shame made her say
quickly, 

Ah ! do not judge her harshly. You
cannot tell what her temptations may have
been. There might have been excuses  "

Val turned upon her with a delightful
smile. She seemed to him to be the incarnation
of a divine and heavenly pity, pleadings
for an error fellow-creature.

That is what I should have expected you
to say," he answered her, his face all aglow
with a warm admiration. "You have, I am
sure, so good a heart that you would try to

think the best of any woman, and perhaps
too  nay, what more probable ?  you know
who it is. Such a fact as my cousin's devotion
must have been pretty well known to
his friends."

Madeline began to feel desperate. The
strain of this lengthened cross-examination,
for so she began to regard it, was almost
more than she could carry on. She perceived
with infinite relief that \'al was totally ignorant
of her connection with Oswald Power's
misfortunes. He evidently had not the most
distant idea that she was the heroine of the
story which he had perhaps somewhat imprudently
betrayed to her. But what a persistent
young man he was ! And how trying
this conversation was beginning; to be to her !
Supposing  she thought in dismay  supposing
that her self-control were to forsake her ; that
she were to turn pale or red, or to betray more
knowledge than was wise ! Then down to the
ground would tumble the new Castle in the
Air that was rising with such airy rapidity
upon the ruins of her late failure. In her
despair she cast about for something that
should at once change the subject, and ward
off the possibility of discovery, or even suspicion.


No, no," she said, with hesitation ; and
then it was actually purely by accident that
she added, " and yet there certainly was a girl,
a friend of mine, to whom he paid a great
deal of attention  a Miss Ormond."

VOL. I. N

Val looked pained.

"Hush!" lie said quickly, "do not speak
of her. She is unworthy now to be counted
as your friend."

Then, with a surprise that was almost
comical, Madeline perceived that Valentine
too was ready to credit Betty Ormond with
that deed of treachery towards his cousin,
which he had stigmatised as base.

It's wonderful ! " said Miss Abbott to herself,
" but at the same time it is really providential
! Certainly the ' luck has turned '
for me, as papa would say."

'' Ah ! Miss Abbott," said their host, passing
by at this moment, " I hope you have all
you want. Mr Eyre, I trust you are taking
care of yourself. Have you had some supper ? "

"Yes, thanks, Malsham, plenty of everything."


It was a curious symptom of the changed
conditions between these two men that Val
was now " Mr Eyre " to his old master, whilst
the "Mr" had dropped naturally out of his
own method of addressing the solicitor.

Then Mr Malsham cast a backward glance
at the couple in the corner as he led away a
portly dowager, covered with diamonds, out of
the supper-room.

Humph ! " muttered that astute man to
himself, " that sort of thing won't do at all.
What can Bella be about ? " And passing his
daughter on the stairs, he whispered to her, 
Go and get Mr Eyre away. He has been

sitting for half-an-hour with Miss Abbott ina
corner of the dining-room."

Bell nodded. She was already in angry
pursuit of her prey. She had been pleased
enough to call Miss Abbott her " friend, ' and
to speak of her intimacy with the fashionable
beauty. That was all well and good ; but if
Madeline was going to " poach," she said to
herself, to take away her young man, her
father's old clerk too, who certainly ought to
belong to her by every law of right and justice,
for was he not being introduced into society
at her father's house ? Was it not at her
mother's table that he had come to dine, and
have his health drunk, on the very first day
of his chant-ed fortunes ? Who, then, could
have so good a right to him as she had ?
Bella said to herself that if Madeline, with
her beauty and her prestige of style and
popularity, was going to play her such a
mean, shabby trick as to come between her
and her chances with Valentine Eyre, then
indeed her friendship was certainly not worth
having, and the sooner it ended the better.

Goodness ! " said Madeline, in an alarmed
whisper to her companion, " here comes Bella
Malsham. She is looking for us, I can see,
or rather for you!'

Do you think, if I duck my head behind
your chair, that she will overlook me ? " said
Val, laughing grimly.

Not she. She has come to carry you off,
and her eyes are lynx-like. Poor, dear Bella !

She is a good-natured girl ; but it's not ber
fault, is it, that sbe is so horribly vulgar ? It's
in the blood, I suppose. She takes after her
mother."

And Madeline laughed, and somehow her
soft, lady-like voice and contemptuous censure
of the girl who " couldn't help being-vulgar"
made Bella become suddenly odious
in his eyes ; and Val even wished he had
not tried to talk to her so pleasantly at dinner
time. Yes, Miss Abbott was right about her ;
by the light of her words he seemed to see
Bella in her true colours. She certainly was
vulgar  horribly vulgar.

"She has come to wrench you away," continued
Madeline, with a little laugh ; " you
poor Mr Eyre, how I pity you ! "

And then Bella came up to them. She
looked red and out of temper, and she could
not help showing her spite and anger in her
words and manner.

Oh, here you are at last," she cried,
hidden up together in a corner. You have
been here quite long enough I consider, Mr
Eyre, and mamma particularly wants you
upstairs to take a lady down to supper for
her ; so as I've come down by myself, perhaps
you will kindly give me your arm, and take
me upstairs again."

But  I cannot leave Miss Abbott," began
Val.

"Oh, don't think of me, Mr Eyre," said
Madeline, rising and speaking with perfect

sweetness and amiability, for she was fully
conscious of the advantage she would gain by
keeping her temper ; and of how favourably
her quiet, ladylike manner would compare with
poor Bella's ill-bred and ill-tempered speech,
*' for I really must be going. It is very late ;
and here is papa, so he will look after me.
Good-night, Mr Eyre, and be sure you come
and see us in Chester Square ; and goodnight,
Bella. Your party has gone off admirably.
I hope you won't be very tired tomorrow.
Yes, dear papa, here I am  coming
this very moment."

She shook hands with them both. There
was not a vestige of annoyance in her face or
manner.

*' She is an angel ! " said Val to himself, ashe
offered his arm in silence to Miss Malsham,
who looked furious, and led her away towards
the staircase. As they slowly forced their way
through the crowd at the doorway, fate ordained
that they passed close to ]\Iiss Abbott again.
She was waiting for her father, who was looking
for his coat and hat. A snow-white cloak
of satin and swansdowu was wrapped about her
shoulders. In Yal's eyes she was lovelier than
ever. She gave him a pleasant smile, and a
look that spoke volumes of flattering regard
out of her beautiful eyes. Bella saw the interchange
of glances, and had not the sense to
hold her tongue.

"Dear me!" she said sarcastically, "how
affectionate you two seem to have become in

one evening ! Have you been teaching Mr Eyre
to find the Philosopher s Stone, Madeline ? "

'what does she mean?" said Madeline,
bewildered, looking wonderingly at Yal for
an explanation.

"Miss Malsham heard me say that I was in
search of the impossible. Miss Abbott," replied
Yal, who was deeply annoyed at Belles impertinence,
which he at least understood. " I
will come soon and tell you what I mean. I have
an ideal  of goodness and of true happiness,
which I called in jest the ' Philosopher's Stone,'
because it is difficult to find, but if found it
turns life into gold. Perhaps, indeed," he
added in a lower voice, " she is right, and that
you may help me to find this precious talisman
; " he caught her hand and pressed it
unseen in the crowd.

Colonel Abbott's carriage," shouted somebody
at the door ; it was really a hired fly.

Madeline hurried forward to join her father,
and Val took Bella upstairs.

And after that the glory of Mr Malsham's
evening party was over for Valentine Eyre.

So that is your new game, Madeline," said
her father to her as they were driving home
across the darkness of the silent park. " Did
you remember him ? did you see that Valentine
Eyre is the same person as that young man who
picked up your purse one day in Piccadilly ? "

My dear papa  of course I knew it ; in
point of fact, I knew who he was, or I suspected
it at the time."

' You mean you knew that that stranger
iu the street was Mr Eyre ? " inquired her father
surprised.

Madeline nodded.

'' Upon my word you are a wonderful
woman, my dear ; how on earth did you find
it out ? "

Madeline lashed.

' Oh, it is not miraculous. I had seen his
photograph. I had called at the Ormond
that very day, and Betty showed me an old
photograph her sister had of him as a boy  of
course I wasn't absolutely certain, photographs
are so unreliable, but Mr Eyre has a peculiar
face. I was pretty nearly sure it was he."

 Well, I might have known you would not
have wasted so much civility on an utter
stranger. I only hope you will be more expeditious
with this young man than with his
cousin."

Now, papa, you are foolish, whilst I am
wise  Oswald Power was but a speculation, as
t-ie event has proved  this is a certainty.
Are you going to the Octopus to-night ? "

Yes, I think so. I shall take on the fly,
after dropping you at home. I may as well
stick to it, now that the luck has turned, and
a little money in hand to go upon, gives one
confidence."

Well, be careful of it, that's all, for I shall
want a good many new clothes before very
long, I expect."

Madeline went to bed that night almost a

happy woman. When she reviewed the events
of the evening, she had good reason to be
satisfied. There had been a danger, she knew,
in transferring her affections so suddenly from
the cousin who was ruined to the cousin who
was enriched, and now that she knew a little
of Valentine, she was able to understand tithe
would not readily forgive her were he to
find out the part she had played in his cousin's
history. He was upright, sincere, and honourable
 things with which Madeline had no
sympathy whatever, the bent of her o;\n
character being in exact contradiction to then ;
but then she reflected he was ignorant of Ie
world, very simple-minded, and particularly
easily gulled  no doubt, did he ever find her
out, his wrath would be intense and unappeasable
 but then why should he find her
out ? Oswald was away ; the nearest approach
to confidence between them had been safely
got over ; it was unlikely that the subject
would be renewed, and, wonderful to relate, his
own suspicions had been directed into another
channel. How, or why this had happened,
Madeline was at a loss to imagine ; but as the
fact was so decidedly in her favour, she felt that
to be thankful for this curious chance was all
that was required of her. Nevertheless, the
one qualm which disturbed for a moment the
serenity of her untroubled conscience, was
that word she had let fall concerning Betty
Ormond ; it is one thing to deny one's own sin,
but it is quite another to fasten that sin on to

somebody else, and Madeline's impressions of
Betty were all pleasant ones. Betty had been
one of the warm-hearted, affectionate souls who
had believed in her  they had been friends
once, in the eyes of the world very great friends ;
that is to say, that Betty had enthusiastically
worshipped Madeline, and Madeline had submitted
very prettily indeed to the worship.
Indeed, it was at Lady Cornelia's house that
Madeline had made Oswald Power's acquaintance
in the days when he was bent upon
wooing not herself, but Betty. After that he
had transferred his allegiance, the girls had
seen less of each other  there had been a little
awkwardness in the subject of Oswald Power,
and then the winter had intervened. Without
any actual rupture between them, they had
from one cause or another seen less of each
other. All the same, Madeline knew that
Betty had deserved better things at her
hands.

And yet, what harm have I done her ? "
she said to herself aloud in self-defence, as she
laid her beautiful head down among her white
pillows. " It was quite true what I said, 
Oswald Power was attentive to her,  quite as
much as to me. I was no more engaged to
him than Betty was. Betty can be nothing
to Mr Eyre ; whereas to me, he is  well 
very important indeed. What I said can do
her no harm, and it saved me."

Then she rolled herself round and sank
softly to sleep),  a deep, sweet, dreamless sleep.

such as we are constantly told that infants,
and persons of spotless lives and clean consciences
only, are blessed with. But to Valentine
Eyre, sleep came not so easily or swiftly.
For long hours he rolled and tossed about upon
his bed feverishly and excitedly. He was
under a spell. Madeline's wonderful beauty
had set his brain on fire. Like many another
deluded man, his eyes and his senses being
absolutely satisfied, he had filled in the lovely
picture out of his own imagination with every
other good thing which he deemed essential to
make up a perfect woman. He told himself that
she was good because she was gracious,  pure,
because she was lovely ; that the light in her
beautiful eyes proved her to be true ; that in
the smile upon her exquisite lips there was the
breath of perfect tenderness ; and that every
word that she had uttered was but a new
token of the womanly beauty of her heart.
He told himself that here was the one woman
in all the earth for him ; here the true bliss,
the " pure gold," the jewel whose price was
far above rubies, and whose possession would
be worth ten thousand fortunes such as his
uncle had left to him.

Yes, Uncle Michael," he said to himself,
for this treasure I will fulfil your dying-wishes,
and will gladly resign your hoarded
riches ; for in making Madeline my own, I
shall have gained far more than I have lost."

And with her name upon his lips, just as
the grey dawn was creeping through the

chinks of his shutters, he fell at last into a
fitful slumber. And then he dreamt, and his
dream was a very curious one.

He thought that he stood in a vast church,
filled with a great crowd of persons, and that
he stood before the altar, hand in hand with a
veiled form in white. He fancied that this
was Madeline, and that he was about to be
married to her. The organ pealed loudly
through the church ; the clergyman stood
before him waiting to begin the service. Then
suddenly a voice spoke behind him ; it was the
voice of Michael Gale. It spoke between
them  between his own head and that of his
veiled bride ; and it said, 

Valentine Eyre is poor. He has nothing
nothing; but the love of one woman  which
I give to Jim now."

Then the form of his bride seemed to shrivel
and shrink away, the bridal wreath and veil
fell off her head, the snowy raiment cockled
up, and became brown and black as though
scorched by fire ; and, instead of Madeline 
he stood hand in hand with a skeleton ! Then
all was confusion and horror and darkness.
The clergyman, the crowd, the church itself,
all vanished away into a cloud of smoke and
flame. Only, through the chaos and the turmoil,
two eyes looked at him reproachfully
and tearfully ; and they were the eyes not of
Madeline Abbott, but of Letitia Ormond !

Val awoke with a start and a smothered
cry. He felt exhausted and unrefreshed. He

sprang from his bed and flung wide open his
window. The early morning sunshine was
stealing over the still silent city. He drew in
great drafts of fresh air, with a grateful feeling
of healthy reaction.

Bah ! what a horrible nightmare ! " he said
to himself, almost shudderingly,  adding, with
a smile,  ' Our friend Malsham's champagne
was certainly not of the best, last night. It
is probable that I indulged in it too rashly."

But he could not go to bed again. He
dressed and went out.

London, at six o'clock on a summer morning,
is a truly delightful ]place. St James'
Park shone like a green emerald. The many
windows in Buckingham Palace twinkled gaily
in the early sunshine, and the more distant
towers of Westminster, mistily and hazily
purple, stood together in a beautiful and
majestic group, such as in no foreign city can
be surpassed. Then, as he sauntered along
past the top of St James' Street, the wide,
silent, empty street, blocked at its base by the
dingy but infinitely picturesque clock tower
of the old palace, seemed to reveal to him
a new and hitherto unappreciated beauty at
this early hour.

A few market carts were slowly wending
their way eastwards. These suggested a new
idea to Val. He followed in their wake, and
soon found himself in Covent Garden Market.

When Madeline Abbott came down to breakfast
that morning, there stood upon the table

a basket of fresh dew-sprinkled roses that
measured half a 3ard in diameter.

"A cab has just brought it from Covent
Garden," said the servant in explanation, as
she bent rapturously over the beautiful flowers.

He is beginning well," said Madeline to
herself, with a smile ; " for she knew intuitively
who had sent them to her.

m\%

ARDENCAPEL HOUSE.

HE London season was now at its
height. The racket went on all
day, and half the night. There
was that ceaseless struggle going
on, that never-ending rushing to and fro which
characterises a certain three weeks at the end
of June, when men and women seem to have
gone demented, and when pleasure is one long
desperate effort from morning till night, and
from night till morning;. There was no time
to rest, scarcely even to breathe. Everybody
was in too great a hurry to rush on somewhere
else, to enjoy any one thing properly. Afternoon
parties choked the daylight hours; then
came a hurried change of raiment, then long,
heavy dinners, barely swallowed before the
victims whirled away, perhaps to the opera or
to evening parties, the whole finished off by
two or three balls, at each of which they considered
it their sacred duty to "put in an
appearance."

The people who go through this kind of
treadmill would rather perish than leave out
one jot or one tittle of the appointed round.
And yet, not one hour of actual pleasure can
they possibly glean out of the twenty-four 
not one agreeable conversation or pleasant
acquaintance can be enjoyed. There is always
something which hurries them away ; somebody
whose reception they are bound to attend
; some fashionable whirl iota in which
they must perforce dance with the rest, or else
be left out in the cold, as stragglers for whom
nobody will wait, and who, if they dare to
linger, will soon be left far behind in the
dreary distance.

Oh, vain and empty life, which the sons
and daughters of fashion are doomed to lead !
Where, in all this, is the dignified repose in
which the best and truest things can be cultivated
? Where are the hours given to literature
and to thought ? The time spent in
things in which our ancestors delighted.

Who can wonder, in all this turmoil of
London life, that our young men are brainless
and vapid, our young women silly and ill
educated !

Now, in this particular season of which I
write, the weather was bright and sunshiny,
and all the human butterflies came fluttering
forth to flaunt their gay colours in the June
radiance. Every morning Betty and Eita
Ormond set forth punctually at twelve o'clock,
to walk from Bryanstone Square to Lady Cornelia

Bashaw's house in Green Street. There
they picked up their aunt, and were speedily
transferred to the shady northern walk by the
side of the Eow, where it was considered
correct that Betty should make a daily appearance,
and that Eita, although not yet wholly
launched into the vortex of fashion, should
have the opportunity of trying her wings, as
it were, in a mild fashion amongst her kind.
The girls generally returned to lunch at their
aunt's house, and after lunch a servant called
for Rita, and she went home, whilst Betty
remained, to undergo the whole rigour of the
law, as laid down by the unalterable fiats of
the upper ten.

Lady Cornelia frequently had friends to
lunch, who often stayed late into the afternoon
; then the carriage came round, and
Betty was whirled away to Buckingham, or to
some garden party in the suburbs, or often
only on a weary round of afternoon visits and
teas, into rooms suffocatingly hot and crowded
with women, where unfortunate "artistes" endeavoured
in vain to sing down the noisy feminine
clatter of tongues, or where Mr Corner
Grain repeated his oft-told tales, or perhaps only
some performing dog or infant abortion, chained
for an instant the attention of a crowd that were
jaded with good music, and sick to death of
genuine talent. Then, at a late hour in the
afternoon, Lady Cornelia would drop her niece
at her own home, with parting injunctions
concerning the plans for the evening.

Put on your cream, or your pink, or your
blue," as the case might be, she would say to
her, " and be sure you don't cry over a novel,
or do anything silly, to make your face red,
the carriage shall call for you at a quarter to
eleven sharp ; so, mind you don't keep it
waiting : and I strongly advise you to lie down
and rest for an hour, or else you will get a
headache, and look pale."

And then off Lady Cornelia would go to
some select little dinner, with a few particular
cronies, whilst Betty, jaded and worn
by the whirl of the afternoon, spent the few
home hours in hearing over her younger
brothers' lessons ; in helping Ealpli with his
French and German ; in listening to her
mother's recital of her aches and pains ; in
reading aloud the leading articles from the
Times to her father ; in anything, in short,
save the much-needed rest that her aunt had
recommended to her. But Betty was young,
and life was sweet to her, and even the toil
which she underwent had its attractions ; for
there are things which make up to a woman
who is young and lovely for all the hours of
weariness which she may have to undergo.
Betty was one of those fortunate young
women who do not pass unnoticed in the
throng. She was never left alone and unspoken
to in a corner of a crowded room ;
never lacked partners at a ball, or eager attentions
from the best-looking and best bred menin
the room. True, the upright soul that was

VOL. I. O

in the girl made her contemptuous and slightly
cynical of the world she lived in. True that
her lip often curled in bitterness ; her small
nose often elevated itself in scorn ; that she
told herself often that she was but hawked
about for sale to the highest bidder  as Helen
had been, as Eita would be ; " as we all are, in
fact," she would say to herself ; but she knew
not how to alter the facts, or to wrench herself
free from the fetters which bound her
down to do as others had done. So she swam
with the tide, and got as much pleasure out
of it all as she could by the way.

There was, indeed, one who had once been
her friend, who had looked at her out of
pleading, blue eyes ; who had prayed her to
remember the pure teachings of her nature ;
to be true to herself; to cast away the mercenary
surroundings that would drag her
downward to the common level of those
about her. Once she had fancied that he
cared ; but now  what was Valentine Eyre to
her !

Oh, had he but remained poor and friendless,
how loyal, how loving she could have
been to him ! Many a night, lying awake,
after she had tossed herself upon her little
bed, she had wrung her hands together, and
wished, with vain longings, that he had never
been anything greater or more noticeable than
Mr Malsham's poor and unknown clerk. Ah,
then !  then, indeed, she would have thought
it no shame to let him see her love ; to bid

him, with sweet glances and kind words, and
a hundred nameless little lures, to her side ; 
then, indeed, she would have gloried in that
unlucky passion which, one still spring morning;,
on the waters of Gravestone Mere, had somehow
been awakened in her. For Betty hardly
knew how this wonderful thing had come
about ; she had not assuredly known it at the
time, nor, indeed, till many days afterwards,
when she knew that he was no longer poor
and friendless, but rich,  then it was ; then,
when all at once a wide, yawning gulf seemed
to gape betwixt him and her  in that he was
wealthy ; then Betty Ormond knew that she
had given her heart unsought. And with
that knowledge came, too, the bitter realisation
that she was parted from him for ever,
and by her own foolish words. Too well did
she remember her careless, cynical speech to
him ; the thoughtless exhibition of the worldly
feelings of those about her, and which, in
her bitterness, she had claimed as her
own, and which had drawn down upon her
that rebuke, stern, and yet deeply earnest,
which rang still, with bell-like distinctness, in
her memory. And could she, who had told
him this, how girls sold themselves for money ;
how her sister had done so ; how it was the
right and proper thing to do ; could she,
whose aunt had turned him with insult out of
her house in the days of his poverty, could
she, by any sign or token, beckon him now to
her side ! Ah, no ! a thousand times no !

Betty felt as she had said, that she would
sooner die !

And then Valentine had made, on his part,
no effort to renew her acquaintance. Several
times she had met him, and he had passed her
with a bow, that seemed cold and distant.
True, on each of these occasions, neither of
them had been alone,  each had been surrounded
by a little knot of talking friends ;
but there had almost seemed to be to Betty
something intentional in the swift way in
which he had averted his eyes from her.

And only this very day a terrible thing had
happened. Lady Cornelia and her two nieces
had been coming out of the park. They were
rather late, and were hurrying away to lunch.
Just at the corner of the row they had come
face to face with Valentine Eyre. For a
wonder he was alone. Lady Cornelia, who
was in front with a middle-aged lady, a Mrs
Merton,. stopped and put forth her hand.
Betty and Eita behind stopped too.

Valentine Eyre lifted his hat comprehensively
to the group of ladies.

My dear Mr Eyre, how delighted I am to
meet you at last ! " cried her ladyship effusively.
Now you really, really must just turn round
and come back to lunch with me. Now you
diVe not to say 'No,' for I won't let you off,
now I have caught you. There is nobody at
all but myself and my friend, Mrs Merton,
and my two nieces. Only a parcel of
women, you know ; but we shall make so

much of you ! Now do come, dear Mr
Eyre ! "

Thank you, Lady Cornelia," Yal had
replied gravely, without venturing so much
as a look at Betty's flushed face and pleading,
grey eyes. " You are very kind, but I am
already engaged to lunch, and, besides " 
with a curious smile  " I remember of old
that you consider a man is but poor company
for ladies alone at lunch time," and,
bowing again, the young man passed swiftly
on.

But Lady Cornelia had understood the
reminder, and so had Betty, who was ready
to sink into the earth with shame and
misery.

This terrible thing had happened only that
morning, and now Betty was dressing for a
ball. Her dress of snowy white lay spread
upon the bed behind her. Her mother's maid
was dressing; her hair. Kita, admiring; and
envious, hovered about the room fingering; the
gloves and fan and the few simple ornaments
that were to deck her sister's throat and
arms.

Oh, how I wish I were out ! " sighed Kita.
How hard it is that I can't go to balls too ! "

You will have plenty by-and-by, and they
are not so very delightful after all."

Oh, that is all very well for you to say,
because you go to such dozens ; but it is very
hard for me to see you go off and be left
behind. I do hope you will marry soon,

Betty, and let me have my turn. I am
nearly eighteen, and quite old enough to go
anywhere, I consider ; and this is your second
season ! Why, Helen was only out for one ! "

'' Helen was an exemplary young person,"
observed Betty. " Naylor, that plait hangs
down lower one side than the other  whilst I
am rebellious."

Yes, so Aunt Corny says of you, or else
you would have married Mr Power last season,
and you might marry Lord Warlock now, if
you chose."

I probably shall, Eita," replies Betty, in
her odd, serious way, which nobody can quite
make out. '' And now for my dress, Naylor,
and mind you lace it straight, or else Lord
Warlock won't propose to me, and that would
make Miss Eita very unhappy."

Law, miss, how queer you do talk, to be
sure ! " laughs the sedate Naylor, who has
known them all as babies.

And then the white shimmering raiment is
slipped on ; the pearls are clasped round her
wax-like throat ; the long gloves drawn up her
round arms ; her aunt's brougham dashes upto
the house ; the powdered footman performs
a loud rat-tat at the door knocker, and away
goes Letitia Ormond to Lady Ardencapel's
great ball, a very fair vision, indeed, of
youth and beauty, whilst Eita, a disconsolate
damsel, goes to bed very melancholy indeed.

The Countess of Ardencapel's ball was one
of the great events of the season, and, like all

great events, caused an untold amount of
heartburning and animosities, both before it
came off and after it was over. No one can
describe how eagerly invitations to it were
longed for, fought for, scrambled for  what
depths of degradation were undergone  what
bushels of moral and mental dirt devoured
remorselessly by women who called themselves,
and were called by others, refined and cultivated
ladies  so that the coveted card might
lie at last upon their drawing-room tables, the
card that would proclaim to the world of their
friends that they were to be guests at Arden-capet
House. That they might say they had
gone there  for that is what it all amounted to
for to stand for two mortal hours in a densely-packed
crush, unable to move hand or foot,
unable to get upstairs or down, or to speak to
their acquaintances afar off, could surely not
be the sole aim and object to which they
aspired, and after which they strained and
struggled with such wild and desperate effort.
It was something else ; it was the proud satisfaction
of being able to say to those a little
above them on the social ladder, " We shall
meet at Lady Ardencapel's on Thursday, shall
we not ? " and the still more ineffable delight of
murmuring: to those less fortunate than themselves,
" You are not going to Lady Arden-capet's
ball ? Oh dear, what a pity ! I made
sure we should meet there ; you ought to go,
my dear ; all the world will be there." Then the
abashed friend who had not been able to encompass

that precious invitation-card would be
cut to the heart, and filled with envy, hatred,
and all uncharitableness, and that naturally
was nuts to the other who triumphed in her
success.

Lady Cornelia had had no such struggles
in obtaining her invitation-card, which came
to her quite naturally, and in the usual course
of events, with Miss Ormond's name duly inscribed
in the corner. Lord Warlock saw to
that, for Lord Warlock was very attentive to
Betty. Lord Warlock was the Earl of Arden-capet's
eldest son. He was quite young  only
twenty  and he had red hair, and wore an
eyeglass, but nobody thought the worse of him
for that ; how should they, since he was heir
to an earldom ! Besides, it was the right
thing in that family  all the Ardencapels had
red hair. The present earl had a head that
was positively fiery, and a beard to match ;
the late earl, also, had the family peculiarity ;
it was, therefore, quite permissible that Lord
Warlock should follow the family traditions ;
in fact, it was not only permissible, but
praiseworthy. The Ardencapels were proud
of their peculiarity. For if a squint or a harelip
or a hunchback descends as an heirloom
through many generations of a noble family,
it is quite certain they will be proud and not
ashamed of it. Everybody, therefore, thought
it very nice and proper of Lord Warlock when,
with a due regard to the tradition of his
family, he was born with bright red hair 

and everybody liked it  everybody but Betty
Ormond, and she privately made up her mind
that Lord Warlock and his hair were equally
hideous in her eyes. Nevertheless, when he
claimed her for the first waltz, after she entered
the room, she had no objection at all to stand
up and dance with him, although dancing in
such a crowd, and with a partner of such feeble
muscles, was a work not only of difficulty,
but of danger. The crowd was very great ;
people trod on each other's toes, and wrenched
away yards of each other s dresses. There
was a great display of beauty and diamonds,
and a roar of conversation and laughter that
almost at times deadened the strains of the
music.

Lord Warlock asked his partner a great many
very trivial questions. Had she been in the
Park ? had she seen the pictures ? was she
going to Lady So-and-so's tomorrow, and to
Mrs Somebody's next week ?

Betty stifled a yawn behind her fan, and
endeavoured to answer politely. As she
looked at the young man's washy blue eyes
and pale, thin face, crowned with those
hideous crimson locks, she asked herself
wonderingly whether it would actually end in
her marrying this man, taking him for ever
for her lord aniong;st mankind  her kino and
her master. The question caused her no
great amount of dismay or revulsion. She
knew that her aunt desired it, and that the
Ardencapels had been gracious to her, and had

intimated no objections to such a marriage for
their son, and it was plainly her duty to get
herself married quickly out of Eita's way.
Did not Eita herself say so ? Then, why not
Lord Warlock as well as another ?

Then, just as her thoughts had brought her
to this point, an opening in the crowd, a pause
in the dance, brought her close up to another
couple which she had not hitherto seen 
Valentine Eyre and Madeline Abbott. As
Betty and her partner paused, these two
dashed forward again in the dance. There
was no recognition between them ; only as
Valentine passed her his hand, the hand that
clasped Madeline's, brushed by the purest
accident against Betty's bare arm.

She drew in her breath quickly, the blood
tingled and danced through her veins, her
heart beat wildly and suftbcatingly. What !
marry Lord Warlock or any other man
whilst Valentine Eyre lived ! No, never,
never !

"Your friend Miss Abbott has chucked
over poor Power and taken up with his
cousin," said Warlock's voice beside her.
Beastly shame, I think ; don't you ? "

'* It is not true  it cannot be true ! " said
Betty, almost with a gasp.

Oh yes, I assure you, Miss Ormond.
They tell me it was made up this morning in
the Park, and that they are engaged. Are
you feeling ill ?  you look so white. Take
my arm ; let me lead you into the air. It is

beastly hot, isn't it ? What can I get you ?
Here, come this way."

Poor young Warlock looked infinitely distressed.
And well he might ; for before he
reached the doorway Miss Ormond had fainted
in his arms.

LETTYS TEMPTATION.

sid I not tell you, Betty, that it
would be so ? Madeline Abbott
is the last woman in the world
to be so foolish as to stick to a
man who is disinherited, and has been obliged
to bolt altogether, I hear, on account of his
creditors. Her father isn't rich. She probably
won't get much to live on when he dies. She
has nothing but her looks ; and anybody buta
little romantic donkey like you would think
her perfectly right to drop that Mr Power,
and to take up with his cousin instead. If
you hadn't been so obstinate and silly you
might have had a chance with him too. But
of course you wouldn't take advice from your
betters, and your opportunity was lost ? "

I don't know that I ever had any opportunity,
as you call it, aunt."

Betty was very white and wan, and looked
fit for very little this morning, as she lay back

in a low chair in her aunt's drawing-room.
She had got a double blow  she had lost her
love, and she had lost her friend.

And last night, too," continued Lady Cornelia
 " what made you go and faint like that
just at the beginning of the ball ? You were
looking your best, too, and Lord Warlock was
inclined to be more attentive than ever ; and
then, just because he mentioned that Mr Eyre
was engaged to Miss Abbott, you must needs
go and faint in his arms and make yourself
conspicuous, so that I had to bring you away at
once. I must say I think it looked very bad
indeed. I heard Warlock telling his mother
that was what happened, for of course she
asked ; and it will be a wonder if it does not
squash that affair altogether."

"I would never have believed it of her,"
murmured Betty wearily, only half listening to
the lecture which Lady Cornelia was delivering
to her. " I thought her so true and good.
To think that she should have done such a
base and worldly thing  oh, I can never
believe in any woman again ! "

Well, my dear, a very good thing, too.
There is no occasion to believe in women ;
they are worth very little, and are all much
alike, I suppose. Bosom friendships only lead
to mischief. When a girl is married she wants
no other friend but her husband. Now, in
Warlock, for instance  "

In Warlock, no doubt, I should find all a
woman can desire ! " cried Miss Ormond, flinging

up her small nose defiantly  'intellect,
love, strength of character, beauty."

*' You would find rank, wealth, and position,"
said her aunt severely,  " things which
should be of infinite value to every right-thinking
young woman ; and you talk like a
child. Who in Warlock's place is expected to
be highly intellectual ? Why, he is born to a
seat in the House of Lords. He need never
open his lips there unless he likes ; he is sure
to get credit for plenty of wits all the same.
Love comes after marriage, and is a very
proper thing, no doubt. Strength of character
is a bad trait in a husband ; and as to beauty,
you speak like a silly school-girl. Who cares
for beauty in a man ? Besides, I consider
Warlock not at all a bad-looking boy. He is
tall and graceful in figure  "

And has red hair ! "

"The Ardencapel hair. No one can object
to that ; it has been in the family for generations.
If that is your only reason for rejecting
him, Betty  "

Well, suppose we wait until Lord Warlock
has expressed a desire to marry me," interrupted
Betty, with a gesture of impatience.

Of course, of course, dear. I only wanted
to prepare your mind, that when the time

comes  "

When the time comes, I daresay he will
do as well as any other," answered the girl
listlessly ; and that was the point to which
her own reflections had brought her on the

previous evening before Val Eyre's hand had
brushed against her arm in the throng. And
now a variety of sensations, crowding one
upon the other, had once more reduced her to
this same condition of feeling.

But Lady Cornelia was secretly rejoiced by
her impatient and weary answer. She felt
that a point had been gained, and like a wise
general conducting a difficult and ticklish campaign
in an enemy's country, she determined
to let well alone, and not to deaden the effect
of her words by mere repetition.

Betty evidently looked upon the subject as
done with. She yawned wearily, and went to
the window. It was a wet morning, and the
usual walk in the park had been put off. Lady
Cornelia was deeply immersed in working up
arrears of correspondence  a wet day was a
godsend to her. Outside, the rain came down
straightly and steadily ; a few drenched four-wheeled
cabs clattered down the empty street ;
within, her ladyship's pen flew over the paper ;
the Persian cat purred in the depths of the
most comfortable chair in the room ; and the
clock ticked merrily on the mantel-shelf. Betty
stared aimlessly out of the window. The sloppy
street, the leaden sky, the sunless prospect
seemed to harmonise well with her own melancholy
thoughts. The news which she had
heard last night had affected her curiously. It
was not so much that Val Eyre was lost to her
which distressed her so much  for that she bad
expected and anticipated  he had never

guessed the sudden love which his words had

o

awakened so strangely within her  she was
nothing to him  probably would have been
always nothing to him in any case, if he thought
of her at all, it was, no doubt, as a thoughtless
girl whose flighty words had once shocked
and slightly scandalised him. She knew very
well that he would probably marry, and that
she would hear of his marriage, and be expected
to discuss it with the rest of the world.
She had been prepared for that ; although,
perhaps, she had not thought that she would
hear the news of his engagement so soon.

But that lie should be engaged to Madeline
Abbott !  that was what was so hard to bear !
Madeline, who had so lately been accredited
with the closest intimacy with Val's cousin 
who had admitted to her in a moment of confidence
that she was as good as engaged to
him ; and whom now she had evidently flung
aside on account of his chase of fortune.
Madeline's conduct must have been heartless
and mercenary in the extreme ; and all Betty's
faithful nature turned against the woman who
thus fell, debased and degraded, from the pedestal
upon which her own love and loyalty
had placed her. And of all bitter things which
this vain and hollow world can bring to us,
there is nothing that cuts so deeply into the
heart as the failure of the friend in whom we
have believed. A lover may be fldse, and we
may still recover and believe in love again ;
but the falseness and meanness of a friend, in

whose honour and goodness we trusted, leaves
a scar that is seldom if ever completely
healed.

Betty's love for her friend was wounded and
well-nigh destroyed by the revelation of her
conduct which she had received. Her only'
hope, her only consolation lay in the reflection
that it was possibly untrue that she was engaged
to Valentine Eyre. So many reports
are current during the London season  so
many cards go the round of clubs and
drawing-rooms, that it is unsafe to attach too
much credit to half the unfounded statements
that are bruited abroad. The old adage which
recommends the wise man " to believe nothing
he hears, and only half that he sees,"
is not a bad maxim to adopt as one's guide
concerning the idle and mischievous chatter
of the world. Betty remembered this, and
took comfort.

' I wonder if it is true ! " she said, suddenly,
turning round briskly towards her aunt.

If what is true ? " queried Lady Cornelia,
without looking up from her letter.

That Madeline is really engaged to ]mr

Oh, your mind is still running upon that,
is it ? Dear me, Betty, why, of course it is
true. Why, I am at this very minute writing
a full account of it down to dear old Sir David
Blagge, dio is tied by the leg at Buxton
with the gout, poor old dear. Listen. ' The
last engagement of the season is that of the

VOL. I. P

iH.'auty, ]\Iiss Abbott, to our nouveau riche, Mr
Eyre, who is, by the way, quite an unobjectionable
young nmn. The fair Abbott has
not let the grass grow under her feet, for it
is not two months ao-o since the disinherited
cousin was in full cry after her, or she after
him  which ought one to say ?  and now she
lias successfully landed the other one. She
certainly has rare talents, that young woman,
j.ast night we met the happy couple, looking
radiantly happy, at the Ardencapel's ball.
She looked uncommonly well in pale amber,
with a large diamond star in her hair, a present
from her intended  "

Oh, aunt, that is not true," cried out Betty
indignantly. " Madeline had that diamond
star a year ago ; she showed it me at the time
she had it first. Her father gave it her."

Her father ! " repeated Lady Cornelia,
scornfully. " What a silly little goose you are,
to be sure ! As if her father could afford such
a present as that ! Why, he hasn't twopence
to bless himself with, and I am sure what they
live on is a mystery  his wits, I suppose."

Yes, I have always understood from Madeline
that Colonel Abbott makes a great deal
of money by his writing ; he is so very clever,"
said Betty, in all good faith.

Fiddlestick !" snorted her ladyship, " that's
not the kind of wits I mean. However, of
course I'll run my pen through the line about
i\\(i star, as you say you knew she had it last
year. Probably some unfortunate victim of

last season gave it lier. But I always am
careful to stick to trxiili in everything, though,
of course, it might easily have been Mr Eyre's
present."

** But, Aunt Cornelia, your writing all this
to Sir David Blagge doesn't make it true, sou
know ; it may be a false report that they are
engaged. I believe it to be very unlikely.
"Where did you hear it ? Who told you ? is
there any real foundation for believing it ? "

Good gracious, Betty, how obstinate you
are ! Of course it is true. Mrs Pettigrew
told me."

The greatest gossip out ! "

Well, but Lady Hale told her, and she
had it straight from Colonel Abbott himself ;
besides, why, everybody was talking of it.
And to watch them was quite enough ; lie
never left her side."

Betty answered nothing, but she shivered
a little, as though the pitiless drip of the rain
made her feel cold. Presently she asked if
she might oho home.

"We cannot walk or drive today, and 1
think mamma would be glad of me at home,
and Pinta and Palpi like me to stop with them
when it is wet. If you don't want me, aunt ? "

Oh no, I don't want you. Remember,
you dine here to-night. Lord Warlock will
have, of course, to take me in to dinner, Int
you are to sit the other side of him, and 1
shall expect you to talk to him, and not to
young Mr Green, who takes you in. I shall

give you every opportunity, because I shall
have old Colonel Knox to talk to on my left
hand, so as to leave Warlock free for you.
Do you understand ? "

Yes, aunt. What a number of trial trips
are necessary in these cases ! Why can't we
be on view one day, and knocked down by
auction the next, as they do with the horses
at Tattersalls ! "

What do you mean by that coarse and
vulgar remark, Betty ? " inquired her aunt,
lifting her eyebrows.

Nothing ; only all this sale and barter
is such a lengthy and troublesome proceeding ;
it's rather exhausting."

I don't understand you in the least ; your
conversation is immodest and unwomanly,"
said Lady Cornelia, frowning heavily. " Ring
the bell, and Charles shall walk home with
you."

So Betty, arrayed in a long, dark ulster,
and with an umbrella well down over her
little lace bonnet, started forth shortly afterwards
to walk from Green Street to Bryanstone
Square, still under the awful shadow of Lady
Cornelia's displeasure. Behind her, also carrying
an umbrella, and walking mincingly on
tip-toe, with a painful consciousness of the
dangers of mud and water to which his immaculate
white calves were exposed, came
Charles, the footman. It was not ten minutes'
walk, but Betty had time whilst it lasted to
take an impartial review of her own conduct.

What ugly words Aunt Cornelia does
apply to me ! She calls me coarse, vulgar,
immodest, and unwomanly ! Can a more
awful category of crimes be attributed to any
young woman under the sun ? Am I all that,
I wonder ? or is it only because I hold up a
looking-glass too close to her face, and show
her her own reflection in it with too great
distinctness ? It is coarse and vulgar to ask
some one to your house because he has wealth
or rank, and to be told to talk to him more
than to other people because of it ; and it is
immodest and unwomanly to run after a man
because you want to drive him into marriage
by force. That is what Aunt Corny does,
and what she makes me do. Ugh ! how I
hate it all. And yet, how can I help my
fate ? I must do, 1 suppose, as others do.
How am I, alone and unaided, to stem the
stream of life ? or how can I even shape my
own destiny, left to myself, as I am ? \il\e
had been poor  if lie had loved me  ah, then
ah, then ! "

And under the deep shadow of the wet
umbrella, Betty's eyes grew tender and shadowy
and dim with a sweet but sad emotion.

And thus it was that, turning the corner
into Cumberland Place, those eyes flashed
up suddenly with all this still in their limpid
depths, and encountered the eyes of Valentine
Eyre.

There was no passing by with a bow this
time ; they had literally cannoned against each

other ; the dripping umbrellas held forward,
each over its owner, came into a sudden collision
 both stopped short.

Miss Ormond ! "

''Mr Eyre!"

It was a common-place greeting enough, but
it served the purpose, and then, 

How odd ; for I was thinking of you ! "
said Yal.

And I," she answered softly, '* was thinking
of you ; " then after a half pause she added
lightly, with a laugh, " talk of the  You
know."

' Neither of us can claim to be so bad as
that, I hope," he answered, laughing too ;
'' which way are you walking ? "

I am going home, to my father's house, I
mean in Bryanstone Square."

Then let me come with you so far."

He turned, and they walked on together.
And then an odd sensation came over him ;
he who had so denounced her of late  who
had cast her forth from his regard as unworthy
and degraded  who had thought of her as
guilty of all vile and mercenary things ; lie
felt  oh, strange to relate, that as he walked
beside that slight, upright, little figure, whose
grey eyes had just met his with such a strange
tenderness  he felt that all his harshness and
indignation was melting away  a thousand
excuses rushed into his mind  Oswald might
have behaved badly to her  her family might
have persecuted her  she might have been

more weak than wicked  and surely, surely
Betty Ormond had never of her own free will
indited that brief, cruel note, by which she
had severed her connection with her lover ! her
fingers, indeed, might have penned it  but
Lady Cornelia's the mind, not Betty's, which
composed it, and hers the lips which must
have dictated it to her niece.

So firmly did he feel imbued with this conviction,
that in another minute he would have
claimed the privilege of an old friend, and have
spoken to her of Oswald Power. Had he done
so, the lives of them both would have been
altered. How many tears  how many heart-burnings
 how much deep anguish and misery
would have been spared to each ! But whilst
he hesitated, Lettyspoke the first, and she asked
him a question. For she too, as she walked
in silence beside him, had been summoning
up her courage to broach an unspoken topic.

"Mr Eyre," she said very timidly, "I was
told last night  I heard something about you
may I ask you if it is true ? "

Yes, you may," smiling down kindly at
her, 'what is it?"

I was told that you are engaged to Madeline
Abbott  is it true ? "

A pause. Val flushed deeply. " No," he
answered slowly and reverently, as one who
speaks of the Religion of his Soul, " I am
not engaged to Miss Abbott ; " her heart gave
a wild bound, only to sink down again cold
and heavy as lead within her ; " but it is the

most ardent prayer, the cliiefest desire of my
life, that she may become my wife."

Something seemed to choke her. Val's eyes
were dreamily wandering into space ; he saw
neither the weet street, nor the dripping houses,
nor the trembling girl beside him ; other
visions entranced him  visions probably of
i\liss Abbott's regal beauty. Betty managed to
find her voice.

1 hope  I hope you may be happy ; that
your life may be blessed," she faltered.

It will be blessed  it will be ! " cried Val
waking out of his day dream, and turning to
her quickly with one of his rare bright smiles ;
"it will be blessed indeed if I can win that
perfect treasure for my own. By the way, do
not I owe you a debt of gratitude ? for was it
not from your lips that I first heard her name ?
did you not say she was good, and gracious,
and true, and tender ? Well, you were right,
she is all that, and more."

"More?"

Yes ; she is that rare thing to find nowadays.
She is a perfectly single-minded woman
a woman who will give herself for love
alone, and never for money or for position."

He looked at her keenly ; there was a meaning
underlying his words  it seemed to him
that she shivered and shrunk away from him.
He said to himself that she understood and
was conscience-stricken. How could he tell
that a terrible temptation was raging at her
heart, that it needed all her strength and all

-JO

her goodness to subdue  a temptation to cry
out aloud, " Is she true and smile-minded /
Is she free from greed of wealth ? Ask her
what she has done with Oswald Power ! How
she has treated Lira ! "

But she spoke never a word. It seemed as
if the words must burst by force from her
mouth ; but she bit her lips till the blood came,
and said nothing. For that Betty Ormond
should blight the hopes and the happiness of
the man she loved, or ruin the prospects of the
friend whom she had ceased to esteem, but whin
might, perchance, have repented of her past
sins  was an impossibility ! It was not in this
woman's candid and generous nature to speak
the damaging words which would have wroucrlit
such twofold woe.

Only she bowed her head silently, and said
in her heart, *' He believes in her ; he shall
never hear from my lips that story of the past
against her. God grant that she may return
his love truly, and be not wholly unworthy of
the life that is before her as his wife."

"Do you know," Val continued presently,
in a kindly manner, not seeming to notice the
emotion which he set down for other causes,
to remorse for her own misdeeds  for admiration
and envy of Madeline's purity,  " Do
you know the lines that are always in my
mind as I think of her, 

Nay, but you who tho not love her.
Is she not pure gold, my mistress ]'

I have money, youth, and health, but there
'was one think; lacking the one elinor without
which all else is valueless  the love of a
true woman ; and, thank God ! I have found
it ! Wish me good luck, Miss Ormond. I amon
my way to her now  by appointment."

And I have kept you all this time ! " cried
Betty, in dismay.

Not at all ; I was too early,  a lover's
impatience, you know ! Ah, is this your door ?
Will you turn back, even in all this rain, and
walk half wav down Cumberland Place back
with me ? Come, do. I have so much I could
say to sou ! "

Betty looked uneasily about her, like a
prisoner longing to escape. No, it was impossible.
She felt she could bear nothing more.
To hear him rave over Madeline  over her
goodness and true heartiness  was more than
her strength was equal to.

No, I fear I cannot to-day," she said,
weakly, and then caught sight of poor Charles
standing respectfully patient, twenty yards
away.

Poor Charles, who had not put on a greatcoat,
and whose white calves, mud-flecked,
gleamed dismally reflected in the puddles
below them. Charles had the aspect of a
Christian martyr. He knew his duty, and
he stuck to it ; but it was of a painful and
terrible nature. He looked wet, and woebegone,
and miserable exceedingly. In the
very direst and solemnise moments of life,

when the soul is wrung, and the licart is
broken with anguish, there will flash occasionally
across the mind a gleam of the
ludicrous  a contrast  a sudden descent from
pathos to bathos, from the sublime to the
ridiculous, which is worth a king's ransom.
When Betty's eyes fell upon Charles, she
laughed outright. The melancholy footman
offered at once an efficient excuse, and a
doorway of escape.

"I can't," she said, laughing; "I really
can't, because of Charles, my aunt's footman ;
he has orders never to leave me till I am safe
indoors. He would have to walk up and down,
too. And do look at his calves ; they are
soaking. I can almost see the bran poultices
through his stockings ! "

Val followed the direction of her eyes, and
laushinorlv left her.

CHAPTER I.

THE VERB "Aware,"

CHAPTER TL
MISS eyre's sorrow,

CHAPTER III.

OSWALD IX EXILE,

CHAPTER lY.

AX Invasion,

CHAPTER V.

A WORD OF Warning,

CHAPTER VI.

A VISIT TO HAMPSTEAD,

CHAPTER Iii.

THE TEMPTRESS, .

CHAPTER VIII
Bella's forlorn hope,

Page














112

Contents,

CHAPTER IX.

THE DEAF AND DUMB GENTLEMAN, .

CHAPTER X.

A LOVE SCENE,

CHAPTER XL

A NOCTURNAL PROCESSION,

CHAPTER XI I.

JIM AVRIGIIT's DISCLOSURES,

CHAPTER XIII.

WEDDING PREPARATIONS, .

CHAPTER XI Y.

PERSECUTION,

CHAPTER XV.

HOW THE TEST FAILED,

PAGE















CHAPTER I.

THE V E Pv B

A MARE.

JWO hours later, on that same wet
afternoon, Val Eyre was seated
beside Madeline Abbott upon the
deep, wide sofa in the drawing-room
in Chester Square, a happy and accepted
lover. He had been sittings there a long; while
now, and as yet he showed no signs of leaving
her. The words of his love had been spoken,
her answer given, tremblingly and reluctantly,
as it had seemed to. him, with sweet, downcast
eyes, and cheeks crimson with maiden
bashfulness ; then a diamond ring of great
value, which he had brought secreted in his
waistcoat pocket, had been produced, and
pressed upon the third finger of her left
hand.

VOL. II. A

All that seemed to have taken place long
ago. The compact had been sealed with many
kisses, and yet the ardent lover sat there still,
with his arm round her waist, his hand clasping
hers, his eyes feasting themselves in rapture
upon her beauty. Would he never go
away ? Madeline was beginning to ask herself,
and a decided feeling of weariness crept into
her mind. She liked him, she had told herself.
Oh yes, she liked him very much, a
thousand times better than she had liked his
cousin, who was weak and brainless, and for
whom she had entertained that feeling of pity
which is not akin to love, but to contempt.
Val was a very different person to Oswald
Power. He was handsome and clever ; he
had a masterful mind  a mind, thought
Madeline, fitted to mate with her own. Oh
yes, decidedly he was a husband of whom
she could be proud. She would be perjuring
herself by no false vows when she stood up
before the altar with this man. She told herself
that she loved him as well as she was
likely to love anybody. Of course she knew
quite well that had Valentine Eyre been a
poor man, it would never have entered her
head to desire to be his wife. His money, no
doubt, was his attraction to her ; but taken
as an appendage to his wealth, Valentine Eyre
was exceedingly agreeable to her taste and to
her senses. She considered herself a lucky
woman in that the sacrifice to Mammon to

which she had devoted herself was so little
repulsive to her.

I might have had a vulgar, unpresentable
boar, or an octogenarian, or a blatant fool,
instead of which I shall have a husband who
is a thorough gentleman, and my equal in age,
and mind, and appearance. I am fortunate,
indeed ! "

x4nd there was a great relief and repose,
too, in her mind at the thought that all her
struggles and intrigues had been brought to
so satisfactory an ending. Once at the beginning
of that long love interview she had
risen suddenly, and had gone to the mantelpiece,
and there she had covered her face
with her hands, and had drawn a long, sobbing
breath of interest relief.

"I can begin a new life !" she said in her
heart ; " the past, with its meanness and its
hypocrites, is over ! I shall have no occasion
to plot and plan and scheme. I can be myself,
and live a clean, wholesome life. Papa
must take his name off the Octopus, and give
all that up for ever ; that skeleton shall be
buried away and forgotten. With my wedding-day
a white unwritten page shall be turned
over and begun for us all."

What is it, my darling ? " murmured Valentine,
in her ear. With the childishness
common to infatuated lovers in the first
stages of mental inebriation, he had followed
her to the fireplace, only because he could not

remain divided from her even by a few yards.
*' What makes you sigh like that ? "

"It is because I am so happy ! " she
answered, turning to him with a delightful
smile in her dark eyes ; and the eyes that
answered hers were radiant with exulting love
and with deepest tenderness, and with a
wonderful trust that it was only in her
partially to comprehend. '* Yes," she said to
herself, as she let her head sink upon his
shoulder, " yes, I am really and truly fond of
him. There is no lie in that at all events."

Now that all took place in the first half-hour
of their interview, when everything was still
fresh and delightful to her ; but when the
second hour of love-making span itself slowly
away, Miss Abbott began devoutly to wish that
some interruption might fortunately occur to
bring this lengthened Ute-a-Ute to a close. If
only her father would come in ! but he was later
than usuaL She knew very well where he was.
On a wet afternoon like this, where else indeed
was it likely that he should have betaken his
footsteps ? He was playing ducks and drakes
with the remnant of Oswald Power's five
thousand pounds ; or rather, with that remnant
to which she had allowed him to have
access ; for Miss Abbott had been clever
enough to secrete a comfortable sum for her
own private use. She had drawn it out of the
bank, told her father it must be paid away in
bills at once, and had locked it securely up in

her own dressing-case, where it now lay snugly
and safely. " It will get my trousseau," she
had said to herself, little deeming that it was
from her future husband's own pocket that
this little hoard had originally come ! She
had done her best to keep her father from the
fatal passion which absorbed his being ; but
the gambler's spirit was too strong within him.
Money to Colonel Abbott meant the possibility
of making more money. That was what he
was about this afternoon she was certain. He
might of course win, for he was " in luck," ashe
said ; but then again he might lose. In
any case, he was safe to remain at the Octopus
till dinner time. Would Valentine also remain
in her drawing-room till then ! She looked out of
the window  it poured  no hope of a walk even
to break the monotony of this eternal kissing
and fondling. Madeline was getting sick of it.
To walk abroad with her lover, to appear by
his side in a crowded room, to dance with him
half the night, and be seen in public with him
half the day, so that people should see that
she was the rich Mr Eyre's promised wife, so
that women should envy her good fortune,
and congratulate her openly upon her success
in life  that was Madeline's idea of the comfort
and advantage of having a lover  not
these interminable moments spent in profitless
tete-astute, these unending repetitions of the
verb " to love," which Val was evidently bent
upon conjugating in every tense and every

case, present, past, future, subjunctive, perfect,
and pluperfect ! Would he never have
done with the theme ? This, for instance, was
the kind of speech, rambling and incoherent,
which had been going on for the better part
of an hour, interrupted at intervals by patient,
interjectory exclamations from herself.

Darling, you can't think how devotedly I
love you ! Do you know I think I loved you
that very first moment I saw you, when I
picked up your little purse in the street. I
must have loved you before I saw you even,
for there was always deep down in my heart,
that dream about the woman I could lovesome
day  the delight of loving you seems to
fill up my whole soul  and you love me, don't
you {

''Oh yes,"  this came verily, because there
was a pause which seemed to demand it. A
sort of " selah " at the end of the verse. Val
poor young fool that he was  was perfectly
satisfied, and dashed on again triumphantly
at his verb.

I Iznew that you loved me ; it was conceited
of me, wasn't it ? but love looked at me
out of your beautiful eyes, my Madeline  that
evening at the Marshals, I saw in your face
a something that I felt must ripen into love
for me  and then my whole heart went out to
you. I might have loved you for years, you
know, and not dared to speak of it ; for if I
had not loved you at once, I should not perhaps

have loved you so well as I love you now,
my dearest one ! "

'* Selah ! " interjected Madeline  or something
equivalent. And so, and so on. I really
have not the face to record any more of the
utter nonsense of which this infatuated young
man  who, up to now, has been presented to
the reader as a sensible young person not
devoid of talent and natural ability  was now
guilty. At last Madeline could bear it no
longer, so she managed cleverly to divert his
thoughts into a new channel.

You will be at the Lowell' ball to-night, of
course, Val ? "

Yes ; I have a card ; of course I go if
you go."

Naturally, sir ; I should like to see you
dare to keep away  now, please, don't kiss me,
just be reasonable for a minute and give me
your advice  what dress shall you like me to
wear ? You have seen all my frocks, I think ;
there is the pink and the white, and the amber
and the black  which shall I put on to-night ? "

You could never look more lovely than in
that yellow dress ; by the way, you have not
got a good diamond bracelet ; you shall have
one for to-night."

Oh, Val ! you are too good !"

Her face flushed with pleasure ; this was the
kind of love-making which she appreciated.

Nothing is too good for you, my Cjueen,"
he answered passionately. " Before I ever saw

you  the first time I ever heard your name
it was coupled with one word * perfection
no truer verdict was ever pronounced upon
you."

And who, pray, said this pretty thing of
me?"

It was Miss Ormond. By the way, I forgot
to tell you I met her to-day, just as I was
on my way here."

'* Yes ! " a small, very small cloud rose in
her eyes  she looked away from him, and became
absorbed in twisting her new ring about
on her finger.

''Do you knows, Madeline, I fancy there
may have been a good deal to be said for her,
poor girl ! I fancy she may have been bullied
by that strong-minded aunt of hers into giving
up my cousin there may be a good many
excuses for her conduct to him  somehow her
eyes looked so plaintive and sad to-day, and
her face altogether was so sweet. I could not
find it in my heart to believe  "

Oh, you men are all alike ; a pretty face
can always take you in ! " interrupted Miss
Abbott impatiently.

For just half a second Val glanced at her ;
there was something in his eyes which taught
her at once to be careful ; he looked at her
not only with surprise, but with something of
painful bewilderment also ; she laughed, and
volunteered a kiss, and his look became
tender once more.

*' You will think I am jealous already ! but
of course Betty Ormond's conduct  "

'* Of course, of course, dearest ; I know in
what light it must appear to a nature like
yours ; for even allowing for extenuating circumstances,
the weakness of her character must
be contemptible in your estimation ; nor do I
ever wish you to be on intimate terms with
her again."

*god forbid!" cried Miss Abbott devoutly.


She had committed herself now to allowing
the blame of her own sins to rest upon Betty's
innocent shoulders, to draw back now to confess
the truth, to divert the vials of Yal's
wrath and indignation upon her own head,
would be madness and ruin.

After all," she said to herself in excuse of
her own mean cowardice, " after all it can do
Betty no possible harm,  she never will be any
the worse off because my husband happens to
have a bad opinion of her ; and if I where to
enlighten him as to the extraordinary mistake
he has made in imagining that she, and not
I, Wrote Oswald Power that note, why, he
would cast me off for ever : he is so stern, and
could be, I know, so unforgiving ! No ; it's
not to be done at any price ; but I must cut
Betty absolutely ; that is easily done ; at all
events till after I am safely married."

** Betty Ormond's father is poor, is he not *? "
asked Val presently.

Madeline shivered a little ; she knew what
he was thinking of.

Oh yes ; the Ormondss are all poor ; that
is why Lady Cornelia Bashaw introduces the
girls ; she pays everything for them, I am told.
However, I have heard, I think, that Mr Ormond
has been more successful in getting[
briefs of late."

Ah  exactly ! " said Val significantly.
Madeline, have you ever heard that Betty's
father is a gambler ? "

Madeline turned sick and cold.

'' No," she murmured tremblingly ; '' how
very shocking ! "

Val pressed her to his side.

My darling, you are quite upset ; what a
tender, pitiful nature you have ? It is horrible,
is it not, to think that such wickedness exists
in the world ? I only mentioned this to you,
to show you that the poor girl may have
had temptations and dangers to face of which
we know nothing  we ought not to judge her
hardly."

She was angry, because he twisted everything
round into excuses for Betty; and yet
she could not dare to show the irritation she
felt. She sprang up from his side.

'' I hear papa ! " she cried ; " that is his key
in the door. Now, Val, do not let us speak or
think any more about anybody but ourselves,
and our own happiness  how my heart beats !
What will papa say to us ? he knows nothing

as yet  Yill lie give his consent to our
marriage ? "

It would have been strange indeed if he had
not ! The handsome colonel came in with that
peculiar cloud upon his brow, of which his
daughter knew too well how to interpret the
meaning. His face cleared a little, however,
when he perceived that Mr Eyre was alone
with his daughter.

Madeline flew to meet him, and cast her
arms round his neck ; swiftly, she whispered
in his ear, as she kissed him, 

"All right  look cheerful for goodness' sake."
Then withdrawing herself from his arms, she
said aloud, 

Oh, papa, I have such wonderful news
for you. I am the happiest girl on earth ! "

Val, who had been standing behind them,
filled with emotion and admiration at the sight
of this pretty picture of filial love  a beautiful
and graceful woman clinging round the neck of
her handsome and soldierly-looking old father,
now came forward, and took Colonel Abbott's
hand.

Colonel, I hardly know how to ask your
consent  to rob you of so great a treasure as
this darling. I know I am unworthy of her ;
but will you trust me with her ? I love her
truly and devotedly, and my life shall be spent
in endeavouring to make her happy. Will you
give her to me ? "

Colonel Abbott was quite equal to the

emergency ; lie proceeded to act the heavy-stage
father with much pathos and correctness
of rendering. Turning first to Madeline, he
took her face between his hands, and gazed
earnestly in her eyes.

Do you love him, my child ? Is this for
your true happiness ? "

' Yes, father ; yes ! " murmured Madeline.

Then he took her hands, and placed them
between Valentine's, and his voice shook as he
murmured, 

'' That is all I ask for my child  that she
should love, and be beloved  nothing else is
required to render marriage blessed. Take
her, Valentine Eyre  though God alone knows
what it costs me to resign my only child  take
her, and make her happy."

Valentine bent his head, his heart was too
full for words  he felt small, and of no account
in the presence of such goodness and nobility.
Never, he thought in his life, had he come
across a father and a child whose hearts were
fixed so much upon the same high and lofty,
and perfectly unworldly ideal.

He went his way to buy his love a diamond
bracelet before the shops should be shut,
overpowered by the greatness of his own wonderful
good luck, and happy beyond the power
of words to express.

He dined at his club alone ; he wanted to be
by himself to realise his great joy ; then, when
it was time, he went back to his rooms to dress

for the ball ; and there, upon his table, lay a
dusky, yellow envelope  a telegram from his
aunt at Hampstead.

Am in great trouble ; please come at once,
however late. Fenella is missing."

Soon after, a hansom cab conveyed the following
small note to Chester Square : 

My own darling, I cannot go to the ball.
My aunt at Hampstead is in trouble, and has
telegraphed for me to go to her. I know you
will understand and forgive me. I hope you
got the bracelet safely.  Yours for ever,

'' V. E."

And Madeline Abbott tore up the note 
her first love letter from her lover  into a thousand
pieces, and stamped them furiously under
her foot.

MISS Eyes SORROW.

'T did not enter into Val's mind to
conceive the rage and indignation
with which his lady-love received
the news of his defection. He was
disappointed himself, of course, that he was not
to see her to-night, but as he was certain to
go to Chester Square at some time or other on
the morrow, he consoled himself with that
reflection, and prepared to obey his aunt's
summons.

After all," he said to himself, as he proceeded
to place himself and a small travelling
bag containing the necessaries for one night
(for he intended to sleep at Hampstead) into
a hansom ; " after all, we miss very little ;
what good is an evening in a crowded ballroom,
where one has to be content with a few
words when two people love each other as
Madeline and I do ? Half-an-hour alone with

her in her own drawing-room is far more precious
than hours spent together in public, and
Madeline will feel this as well as 1 do."

He did not, of course, know the character of
the woman he had to do with, nor did he
understand how dear to the feminine mind is
all the eclat which a public acknowledgment
brings to her. For wdiat profit is it to have
carried off the best match of the season, if the
fact is not to be proclaimed upon the housetops
? and how is a woman to refrain from that
just and legitimate triumph over her fellow-women
which she considers by no means the
smallest portion of her happiness ? Moreover,
Madeline Abbott, for all her beauty and her
popularity, knew herself at heart to be little
better than an adventuress. She and her
father had lived precariously, and from hand
to mouth ; they had pushed themselves with
untold efforts into the foremost ranks of
society ; and there had been times when they
had had considerable difficulty in maintaining
the place for which they had thus struggled.
For rumours had once or twice been afloat
concerning Colonel Abbott's habits and customs
 the name of the Octopus had been
whispered in connection with him, and although,
if a rich man gambles for his pleasure,
he is looked upon without disfavour (more
especially if he wins), the world is very severe
upon the poor man who lives upon his winnings.
It had required all Madeline's tact and cleverness

to counteract the pernicious effects of
these reports, which from time to time
had got about, nobody quite knew how.
Her filial devotion to her father, indeed, had
predisposed many in his favour  her solicitude
over his comforts and his health, the pretty
way she had in public of appealing to him for
his opinion, and the loving pride with which
she would dilate upon his talents and his
goodness, went a long way towards impressing
the world with the conviction that there could
be nothing radically wrong with a man who
was thus worshipped and respected by so good
a daughter. Calumniators were put to silence.
Colonel Abbott, said the voice of the world,
might possibly be fond of an occasional game
of cards,  he might even win or lose a few
pounds occasionally, there is no harm in that,
but that he should make his livelihood out
of other men's pockets, and be a systematic
gambler, must certainly be a foul and malignant
slander.

But for all that, Madeline knew that her
position was an uncertain one ; there were
many men in London whose fortunes had
suffered severely at Colonel Abbott's hands,
and who might at any time betray the secrets
of his life to those fashionable acquaintances
she had worked so hard to make and to retain.
An exposure of this kind would mean ruin to
them both. And this was the risk which a
wealthy marriage would most effectually avert.

The day that Madeline married  and married
well, her father had sworn to her that he
would take his name off the Octopus and return
thither no more. She would be able to
provide for him, to keep him, to live with him
if he desired it, and her own position would
be so solidified and strengthened that she might
bid good-bye for ever to all the pitiful shifts
and economies, to all the manoeuvring and
fencing, which for long years had been the
painful and the never-ceasing occupation of
her existence. No wonder then she was in a
hurry to proclaim to the world beyond a
shadow of a doubt, that she was the chosen
wife of Valentine Eyre.

But Yal, as was natural, neither knew nor
entered into these considerations.

As he drove through the star-lighted summer
night  for the rain had all cleared away, and it
was now fine and dry  his heart was full indeed
of his Madeline ; but full of nothing; but her
goodness and her beauty. He felt humbly and
deeply grateful for his great happiness. The
joy of possessing her was sufficient to him. He
did not even give more than a passing thought
to the subject of his actual marriage to her,
nor did it occur to him to wonder how and in
what manner she would receive the announcement
concerning the giving away of nearly the
whole of his fortune, which he would be bound
to make known to her on the eve of his wedding
day. For what possible difference could such

VOL. II. B

an utterly sublunary consideration as this
make either to him or to her? They loved each
other  their souls were blended into one 
their lives were to be spent together  how,
then, could riches or poverty affect two hearts
so bound together as were his and Madeline's ?

Poor deluded Val ! With his clean soul unsullied
by the suspicions and unbelief in mankind
which a better knowledge of the world
would have brought to him ! How happy and
]beautiful was the paradise of his own creation
in which he dwelt serenely, and how terrible
some day will be the awakening to the harsh
and bitter reality !

As he drew nearer to his aunt's house he
turned his mind, with an effort, from his own
happiness to the trouble which had visited
the good old lady. He was utterly in the dark
as to the measure and extent of the evil which
had befallen her.

Fenella is missing," the telegram had told
him. How, and in what way, he wondered,
had his aunt's beloved foundling come to
grief? Had she eloped with a lover, or had
some evil chance befallen her ? Val was very
sorry for his aunt, for he guessed that she must
be in great tribulation ; but he was not specially
concerned on Fenella's account. Strange to
say, he did not like Miss Snow. He had never
cared much about her at any time, and he had
a vivid recollection of that shadowy evening,
now about seven weeks ago, when, strolling

behind the gloom of the dark cedar trees upon
the lawn, Fenella had made so startling a revelation
to him. Val's incipient and vague
distrust of her had been turned that very hour
into dislike and disgust. Like all men who
are fastidious and pure in imagination, the
spectacle of a woman who forgets the modesty
of her sex, and who professes to a man the love
which he has not sought, seemed to him to be
revolting; to the last degree. He had striven,
indeed, since that evening to think more kindly
of her, and to find excuses for her. He had
told himself that her ignorance and innocence
were perhaps accountable for the extraordinary
confession which she had made to him ; but
then, again, he could not forget that she had
left him in cano-er. and with a threat, and his
original feeling of repulsion to her returned
upon him again and again. He had never seen
her since that evening  he had, indeed, only
been to Abingdon House once since then, for
the claims of both business and pleasure pressed
sorely upon his time. Upon that one occasion
he had driven down in the afternoon, and had
remained only an hour with Miss Eyre, and
during that time Fenella had not been visible.
Now, as he drew near the well-known gates,
and saw the old-fashioned red brick house
looming darkly amongst the venerable trees
which overshadowed it, he perceived at once
that, although it was close upon midnight,
the household had not stone to rest. There

were lights in several of the windows 
he was evidently expected with anxiety.
At the very first clang of the bell the
front door flew wide open, and he was welcomed
by Bridget, who drew him into the
house.

*' What has happened, Bridget ? "
*' Oh, dearie me, Master Valentine, we are
in great trouble here. It's two days now
since Miss Fenella disappeared."
'have you heard nothing, then ? "
The old servant shook her head, and at
that moment Miss Eyre herself appeared at
the door of the quaint little apartment that
still, in last century prince, went by the
name of the " parlour."

Come in here, Val  come in here  God be
thanked that you have come ! " said Aunt
Ann. The old lady looked white and aged,
and her hands trembled as she laid them upon
her nephew's arm.

How wonderful is the advent of a man in a
house full of women, especially when that
house is in trouble! Val's very presence
seemed to bring hope and good counsel and
common sense with it  it was like a draught
of fresh air in a fever-stricken room  his
tal], athletic figure, the grip of his strong
hand, the very sight of his quiet, serious
face, and the glance of his kind eyes, seemed
to bring strength and consolation to poor
Aunt Ann.

'' What is it all about, dear aunt ? Why,
you look quite ill."

"It was yesterday (Tuesday) at ten o'clock
in the morning that she went out, and now
it is past midnight   Thursday morning
already  and wee have heard nothing of
her ! " she moaned.

Why did you not send for me before ? "

Oh, we hoped  Bridget and I  that it
was only some freak, that she would have
come back. I thought to-nio4it would have
brought her, because her young; friend, Miss
Baker, the only girl she has ever made a
friend of, was coming to tea ; but when the
evening came, and still there was no sign of
her, then I knew that she must be gone
indeed, and that something terrible must have
happened to her."

Come, sit down, and tell me all about it,"
said Val, gently placing the old lady in her
arm-chair ; " but first let me ask Bridget fora
glass of wine."

The bell was rung, and the wine and
biscuits brought in. Val, who had only asked
for it on his aunt's account, made her swallow
a whole glass of port, and nibble a biscuit
before he would allow her to speak again.

Now," he said, when that refreshment
had been duly disposed of, " now we can do
nothing till the morning, so you will have
plenty of time to tell me all that has
happened."

Miss Ann's story was incoherent and rambling,
and was intercepted by many tears
and by heartrending sighs ; but, briefly told,
the account she gave of her trouble was as
follows :  

It appeared that, for some time back,
Fenella Snow had been unusually restless
and changeable ; her spirits were uneven ;
sometimes she would sit silent and moodily
abstracted for hours ; at other times she would
appear to be in the highest spirits for no
accountable cause. Bridget and her mistress
had both remarked that Fenella was not altogether
herself. The had noticed too that
she often scribbled with a pencil on little
bits of paper. She would write a few lines,
then scratch out a word or two, and then invariably
she would tear the paper up into
little scraps, and seem to put off the occupation
until another occasion. Once Aunt Ann
had questioned her concerning these scribbling,
and had asked her what they
signified.

Oh," replied the girl, laughing, " I am
composing a poem to send to Louisa Baker
on her birthday, and I cannot get the rhymes
to my fancy."

One day, about ten days ago, she had asked
leave to 00 into the town to match some wool
for her worsted work. Miss Ann was particular,
and had old-fashioned notions about the
impropriety of girls walking out of doors by

themselves. She had first refused to let her
iro, telling her that it was an inconvenient
hour ; Bridget could not go with her ; the
housemaid had a severe cold, and was not well
enough to go out ; and the cook was busy
cooking the dinner. Miss Ann told her she
must wait for her wool till the next day.
Then Fenella had pleaded very hard, it was
such a little way, and she wanted her wool so
badly to finish her work that evening ; would
not Miss Eyre relax her rules for once. 80
Aunt Ann had yielded, and Fenella had gone
on her errand unattended. She had been out
only a very short time, and no harm had resulted,
so that when two days after she had
again entreated at a particularly inconvenient
time to be allowed to go to a shop by herself
upon some trifling errand that was apparently
all-important to herself. Miss Eyre had again
consented. A third time, and this time again
with a two days' interval, Fenella had begged
to be allowed to go out for a few minutes by
herself, and Aunt Ann had smiled and spoken
about the thin end of the wedge ; and Fenella,
in answer, had laughed and declared that
her old friend's strictness was old-fashioned
and out of date, and that young ladies nowadays
walked about alone everywhere, and never
came to the slightest harm.

Aunt Ann had made reply that it was not
only on account of the prejudices of her own
youth that she had been particular in this

respect, but also because of the uncertainty of
Fenella's own origin. She feared that her
relation might trace her out and claim her
for no doubt, having left her years ago at
the door of the house, they knew quite well,
if they wished to kidnap her, where she was
to be found.

"And that," here cried Aunt Ann, in tears,
is what I fear has happened to my child
now ! "

When Yal questioned his aunt about the
length of these three mysterious absences. Miss
Eyre answered that she was quite positive that
on no occasion had Fenella been out long
enough to warrant the supposition that she
had gone to meet a lover. This, of course,
was Yal's idea of the secret of her disappearance.
A young woman in mischief, to him
meant a young woman in love ; but that was
possibly because his own mind was running
so much upon the niHuence of the tender
passion.

But lovers' interviews are apt to prolong
themselves  minutes lengthen into half-hours,
and even into hours ; and Aunt Ann was
positive that Fenella's absences from the house
had never lasted longer than a quarter of an
hour  a time, in fact, only just sufficient to
enable her to go to a shop, make her purchase
without delay, and return straight home

adam.

The fourth time that Fenella Snow had

i:rone out alone from Abiiigclon House, she head
asked no one's leave to do so ; she had slipped
out at ten o'clock in the evening after Miss
Eyre had gone to her bedroom, and when
the maids were all upstairs ; she had slipped
out by the garden door alone and unperceived,
and had never returned.

She was not missed until the next morning.
Then a hue and cry was raised; she was
sought for in the garden and the paddock,
and from attic to cellar in the rambling old
house ; then messengers were sent abroad 
to the shops she had frequented, to the
few neighbours' houses where she visited, and
to the walks across the breezy heath where
she had sometimes wandered. All in vain.
From that moment to this no trace of her had
been found.

Only, two rather curious facts had transpired
 firstly, that she had never been near
the fancy-work shop where she had professed
to buy the wool for her worsted work ; and
secondly, that a labourer came forward to say
that, late on the previous evening, as he was
walking up the lane that skirted the garden-wall
on the eastern side of the house, he had
]passed a four-wheel cab standing motionless
under the shadow of some overhanging trees.
There was no driver on the box, and his attention
was attracted to the circumstance, because
lie noticed that the horse was fastened by the
reins to a wooden gate. Higher up the lane

he met the cabman descending the hill, with a
trunk upon his back and a bag in his hand.
The man passed him, placed the luggage inside
the cab, mounted the box, resumed the
reins, turned the vehicle round, and drove
away down the hill.

The labourer who witnessed this incident
thought no more of it, until entering neighbouring
public-house on the following day, he
happened to hear from the gossips assembled
there that Miss Eyre of Abingdon House was
in a fine way because her young lady as lived
with her had vanished clean away, and nothing
could be heard of her. Then the man came upto
the house to state what he had seen, thinking
it might possibly throw some light upon
the subject.

But has she taken her belongings with
her ? " inquired Val.

Yes, she has taken some, though not
nearly all her clothes. Two of the drawers
of her wardrobe were locked. We forced them
open, and found them completely empty, and
several jackets and hats are also missing."

'' But how on earth could she have got her
box out of the house ? She could not have
carried it herself ! "

'*No ; but we think she must have got the
box out when it was empty into the summerhouse,
at the bottom of the garden. You know
it is rickety and ruinous ; nobody ever went
into it. She must have hidden the trunk and

bag there, and filled them by degrees with her
clothes ; she was always wandering about the
garden after dark ; and there is a side-door
close to it through which the cabman could
easily have entered, unperceived, to carry it
away."

"It appears to me, then, dear aunt, that
Fenella cannot have been kidnapped, since
she went away of her own accord, and with
a preconceived plan, carrying away a goodly
portion of her wardrobe with her."

Ah, poor child ! how can we tell ? she was
always so enthusiastic, so easily led away ! she
always thought she belonged to some noble
family, and that they might come and claim
her  an} designing person might easily have
imposed upon her, and decoyed her away ;
and then  and then they might rob her  leave
her destitute."

Aunt Ann's voice became choked with tears.

*' Had she any money with her ? " queried
Val.

Yes ; I had just paid her her little
allowance  her 'salary' I used to call it  five
pounds and a few shillings, she had asked
only the day before if I would advance
it to her."

Was that all ? "

Well, no, not quite ;" admitted Miss Eyre,
with evident reluctance  " there was some
money I gave her, not much, only three pounds
odd, to pay a bill with, she forgot it, I suppose.

Oh, Val ! don't look so stern and angry. I am
sure she must have taken it by accident  poor
child ; it was little enough. I don't grudge
it her!"

Yal looked straight before him, with un-comprising
harshness  it was strange how
dark and severe that handsome young face
could sometimes look.

'' It seems to me," he said, sternly, " that
your favourite does not come very well out of
this business, aunt. To begin with, she voluntarily,
and of her own free will, leaves you 
who have sheltered her, and been as a
mother to her all her life ; you dio have
fed her, clothed her, and given her all that
love and goodness could shower upon her.
She leaves you without a word or a farewell,
without even a written line left behind
her to relieve your anxiety as to her fate ;
and, in the very act of leaving you. she robs

you!"

The contempt with which he spoke the last
Words, cut her to the heart.

Oh, Val ! Val ! my dear boy, do not say
it ; it cannot be true ; she could not have
meant tliatl and she will write, be sure she
will write ; by tomorrow morning's post I shall
hear from her."

Well, if you do not do so," said Val, rising
and stretching himself, " I shall go to Scotland
Yard tomorrow, and set everything going to
search for her ; no money shall be spared ;

never fear, dear Aunt Ann  your truant
shall be found for you ; and now let us goto
bed."

But there was no letter from Fenella Snow
on the morrow  nor ever again were Miss
Eyre's aged eyes to be gladdened with the
sight of the handwriting of the child she had
fostered and reared.

Val kept his promise to his aunt ; detectives
were set to work, clues were followed up,
scraps of information from all sides were
greedily snatched up  as he had said, money
was not spared ; but nothing came of it ; the
fugitive had managed her flight so cleverly,
that no trace of her could be found. The cab,
it was found, had been charged to leave her
box at a wayside station ] the box had been
called for and taken away, how or by whom no
one could discover. One thing only came out
in the course of the inquiries  a 3oung lady had
come three times into a confectioner's shop, in
the town of Hampstead, and had asked for
three letters addressed there to the letter " F,"
which had arrived directed there ; '' to be
called for."

Days melted away into weeks ; the detectives
declared they could make nothing of the
case, and beo-an to lose heart. Val, much
eno-ag:ed in his own affairs, had little time to
give to so profitless a search, and by degrees
grew hopeless too, and thought less and less,
as was not marvellous, about the girl who had

Pure Gold.

grew older

disappeared. Only Ann Eyre
and paler and thinner ; and went about bent
and sorrow-laden, stricken to the very heart,
because the child she had brought up and
loved was lost to her.

OSWALD IN EXILE.

iT may very possibly be supposed, all
this time, that Oswald Power,
spending the blossoming weeks of
the London season at Cragstone
Tower, in the county of Westmoreland, there
possessed his soul in patience,  in meekness,
in mild contentment, and in an unfeigned
sense of gratitude to his cousin for the generosity
and benevolence of his conduct towards
him.

Such, I am sorry to say, was very far
from being the case. Oswald Power was
essentially a very common-place young man.
He had no breadth or depth about him, either
in his head or in his heart ; his composition
was watery and evanescent. In the whok,
course of my life, I have never yet met a
person of inferior mental capacity who was
not also incapable of strong and deep-seated

affections, of great unselfishness, or of self-sacrifice.
If the brain is shallow, the heart is
generally shallow as well. Oswald's brain
was decidedly shallow ; it follows that his
heart was shallow also. For the first moment,
indeed, of Val's appearance, when he had been
plunged into the very depths of woe by the
reverses of fickle fortune ; when he had been
hard pressed on every side, and had not
known where to turn for help and for safety,
his cousin had certainly appeared before him
in the guise of a delivering angel ; and Oswald,
in eagerly consenting to the terms imposed
upon him, had been moved by a faint fluttering
sensation in the region popularly supposed
to indicate the heart, and had declared himself
to be '' grateful."

But will any one of my readers take the
trouble to look around upon the circle of their
friends and relatives, and tell me how often,
in the course of their own experiences, they
have come across this Divine and God-given
quality of *' gratitude ! " Think, oh, my friend,
of the man to whom you lent money, at great
inconvenience to yourself (which you were
careful to hide from him) ; of the struggling
relative, for whom sou went surety ; of the
woman to whom you opened your house and
your home, when she was alone and in trouble ;
of the old school-fellow, whose son you helped on
in the world ; of the widow and the bankrupt,
and the friendless whom, at divers times and

seasons, you have in various ways assisted.
Which of these, oh, my reader, has rendered unto
you that sweet and gracious meed of a thankful
heart ? No doubt, when you proffered your good
actions to these people, you said, in your heart,
as every generous man must do, with a glad
glow of inner satisfaction, " Such a man will
repay me, not in kind, but in deed. He will
be my friend for life ; if he can do me a good
turn, he will be sure to do so ; or, this poor
woman will give me her unswerving devotion
and friendship. She will never forget such
and such things which I have done for her.
She will bless my name, and come to me,
should I ever be sick or in sorrow."

It is but human nature that you should
have had these thoughts ; that you should have
expected to strike fire out of the stony flint ;
that you should have hugged to your soul the
sweet fancy that you would, at all events, meet
with gratitude from those whom you have
benefited.

But, reader, have you met with it ? If you
have, you are more fortunate than I am. I
have lived now a good many years, and seen
a vast deal of life, and my experience tells
me that unselfishness and generosity may be
rewarded by God, but by man  never !

Oswald Power had no feelings of gratitude,
in the true sense of the word, towards his
cousin. It is true that he felt very much
relieved indeed, to have got out of his

VOL. II. C

troubles so easily. It was a comfort to him
that Valentine had squared up all his bills,
and an unfeigned satisfaction that that debt
of "honour" had been paid to the father of
the woman who had behaved so badly to him.
It would have been very terrible to have
continued in debt to Colonel Abbott ; his
name would have been posted as a defaulter
at the clubs ; men who had been his associates
would have fought shy of him ; the recklessness
which had gambled away so large a slice
out of a fortune which he was uncertain of
inheriting, would have been so severely commented
upon by all his acquaintances, that
Oswald, who had never lost money to any
great extent at cards before, would have felt
himself humbled and degraded to the very dust
before the eyes of all men. The very fact of
Madeline's having thrown him over, made it
imperative upon him that he should pay her
father immediately ; for, though Oswald was
neither clever nor remarkable for any great
or elevated virtues, he was at any rate a
gentleman, according to the code of the world
he had lived in, and he had pride enough to
make him act up to his principles.

Valentine, in paying this five thousand
pounds for him, had relieved him from a
frightful burden, which would have hung about
his neck like a millstone, and he felt, not grateful
 that is too strong a word  but very much
obliged to him. '* He is a good chap," he said

to himself, " and has behaved like a brick," and
as he said it a great many times over andover
again, he ended by believing that he was
in the most thankful frame of mind in the
world with regard to his cousin.

But as to being happy and contented up at
Cranston Edo-e, as to imagining; that he was
in any way fortunate, or lucky, to be residing
there, free of expense, when all the rest of the
world were enjoying themselves in London,
why, that was quite another matter !

Valentine had told his cousin to amuse himself
at the Tower in any way he liked best.
He might whip the trout-streams with his rod,
or wander about with a gun, shooting rabbits
and waterfowl. He was welcome to the use
of a horse and a dogcart, which had mysteriously
arrived from the south a few days
after himself, and which, of course, he owed
to Val's thoughtful kindness. He might
drive all over the country, or ride about the
sequestered valleys from morning till night.
Moreover, Val had provided him with a distinct
and definite duty and occupation,  he was to
overlook and direct the improvements and
alterations that had already begun to be carried
out, both inside the house and without its walls.
Not one stone of the outer structure of Crag-stone
Tower was to be touched, but within all
was bustle and confusion; paperers and painters,
carpenters and glaziers, were in full possession,
whilst a troop of gardeners where laying out

and planting, measuring out paths, and putting
down turf outside the windows. All this
Oswald wis supposed to superintend and direct
under his own eyes.

But to not one of these pleasures or duties
did our disinherited friend betake himself
with any satisfaction. A country life was
abominable to him. He found fishing slow
shooting rabbits unexciting, to drive by himself
through the most lovely landscape in
England did not afford him the faintest gratification,
whilst to ride along deserted roads
and through windings lanes, where never a
fellow-creatures was to be seen from the moment
he left the house up to the moment he got
back again to the front door, was an occupation
which seemed to him to be the dreariest thing
under the sun.

In vain did the June sunshine stream down
upon the blue lake and the hazy outlines of
the hills ; in vain did summer clouds throw
purple shadows upon the fells, or passing scuds
cover their smiling faces for brief moments
with frowns, till a glint of sunlight from
behind the cloud came brightly back, chasing
the rain-mist before its golden gleams. There
could be nothing so lovely, so varied in its
changeful hues, so peacefully delightful as this
landscape of rock and hill and water, as it
appeared during these long summer days of
settled fine weather ; but in Oswald Power's
dull and unappreciative eyes it was all flat,

stale, and unprofitable. He would rather have
beheld a vision of Hyde Park Corner, or a
glimpse of Pall Mall, than be doomed, as he
was, to gaze upon the everlasting hills, in all
their loveliness, which encompassed him about
like the walls of a prison.

Neither did Mr Power find much solace in
the occupation which it was clearly his duty
to attend to. For a few days he stood about
watching the men at their work ; proffered
a few idle and unconsidered suggestions, or
agreed lazily and without reflection to any
question which was referred to him. And then
he began to think he had had enough of it ;
that the dust of the work got down his throat ;
that the smell of paint made him sick, or the
noise of the carpenters' tools gave him headaches.
After a day or two he kept out of the
workmen's way, and troubled himself no further
about them. He mooned about, for the most
part, with his hands in his pockets, smoking
his cousin's cigars, drinking his cousin's wine,
and tormenting the souls of his cousin's
domestics, by his irritable and uncertain
temper. Of course he was for some weeks 
or imagined himself to be  indulging; in the
luxury of a serious grief of a sentimental
nature. Over and over again he told himself
that Madeline's falseness and cruelty had
broken his heart  that he should never love
again  that life held nothing more for him,
and that women, for her sake, were hateful in

his eyes for ever. But although Oswald had
certainly been at first most genuinely unhappy
concerning his blighted affections  although
when the double blow had struck upon him,
he had honestly felt the smart to his wounded
feelings, even more acutely than the ruin of
his prospects, yet he had so often loved
before  had been in so many scorching fires,
had raved and recovered, moaned and mended
on so many previous occasions, that it was very
soon evident that there was nothing hopeless
or fatal in his condition in the present instance.
As the days wore away with uneventful
monotony, he grew tired of kissing Madeline's
photograph, and of reproaching it in
despairing tones for her infidelity. By degrees
the photograph, which was framed in a
small morocco case, descended in the scale of
his retard : it became removed from his dress-unstable
to his mantelpiece  from his mantelpiece
to a distant chest of drawers which he
seldom approached ; and finally, it was somehow
or other  either by his own impatient
hand or the housemaid's careless one  swept
into one of the open drawers, to the backmost
recesses of which it slowly found its way, and
there, beneath a pile of unused clothes, and a
litter of scarfs, collars, and socks that were
out of date or out of repair, Madeline's beautiful
image lay, face downwards, in its little case
and was forgotten. It may be presumed
that when Oswald Power began to attend the

little church at Cragstone, two miles off, on
Sunday mornings, with praiseworthy regularity,
in order to ogle a very pretty farmer's
daughter during the performance of Divine
service  whom he declared to himself aloud
to be, " By Jove ! the very finest girl " he had
ever seen,  it may, I say, be imagined that he
was in a fair way to being cured from the
wounds which Miss Abbott had inflicted upon
his affections.

Now, with the death of his love-sorrows,
other thoughts and feelings began to rise up
in Oswald Power's mind. Dissatisfaction and
discontent crept into his soul  he began to
say to himself that it was hard  deuced hard
to be here as his cousin's paid agent in a
place where he ought, by rights, to have been
master : he took to cudgelling; his brains over
the mysterious cause that had made old Michael
Gale alter his will, after having for so many
years led him (Oswald) to consider himself as
his heir. It had come to his knowledge by
this time, from Val's own words  for he had
made no secret about it  that his cousin had
been staying at Cragstone Edge, within a
month of his uncle's death. Oswald began to
make to himself at this time sundry remarks,
such as the following : 

I wonder now, whether it was a plant !

Shouldn't be surprised a bit if he had a
hand in it !

I expect he soft-wandered the old chap.

He knew fast enough, I bet, which side
to lay on the butter ; " with other observations
of a like nature which, although enigmatical
and obscure both in language and
grammar, all had a decided convergence
towards one central idea, which finally culminated
at last into a distinct and perfectly
lucid regret.

''By Jove!" he exclaimed aloud one day,
springing ups from the arm-chair where he had
reclined doing nothing for the best part of an
hour. " By Jove ! if I only had had a little
money to fight, and not been so beastly hard
up that I had to cut and run, I believe I might
have made a stand for it on ' undue influences '
on an imbecile, old dotard, and might very
likely have upset the will."

And therewith he cursed his luck, and
his poverty, and his cousin with a perfect
hail-storm of naughty words. But although
Oswald Power was ungrateful and fickle, although
his heart was the size of an acorn, and
his mind as empty as a hollow nutshell, he
was not actively vicious or aggressively benton
evil. His suspicions spent themselves in
discontented sputtering, his anger in grows
of impotent envy ; lie was too mediocre to be
malignant, too weak to be wicked. If he
had been let alone, he would no doubt have
grumbled and muttered and used bad language
to an unlimited extent ; he would have
developed a soured and envious disposition,

but certainly to all others save himself he
would have never been anything but perfectly
harmless. But he was not let alone. His
hands were idle," and Satan promptly provided
the "mischief," so that they should no
longer remain inactive.

It all came about in this wise. One morning,
letting his eyes wander idly over the
advertisement sheet of the Times, he caught
sight of his own initials in capital letters, 0. P.
This hardly arrested his attention, and yet
his eyes continued fixed upon the spot, although
his mind was not alert to what they
rested upon. Suddenly he read the next
words. This time his attention was awakened.
They were, to say the least, curious when read
by a man in his position.

0. P., disinherited nephew.

Oswald rubbed his eyes, blinked, held up
the paper nearer to his eyes. Was he awake,
or was he dreaming, for to whom on earth
could those two singular words be so fitly
addressed as to himself? With an odd sensation
of astonishment and bewilderment, he
finished the paragraph. Taken as a whole,
the advertisement ran thus, 

'' 0. P., disinherited nephew. Should this
meet your eye, you are earnestly requested to
communicate your address, ivith name in full,
to one who can help you to recover that of
which you have been unjustly defrauded.

Address, F., care of Mr Sweeting, Confectioner,
23 Heath Street, Hampstead."

Not once, nor twice, but many times over
did Oswald Powder read this extraordinary
advertisement ; and the oftener he read it,
the more convinced he became that it could be
addressed to no other man on earth save himself.

To begin with, there were his own initials,
followed by the exact definition of his position.
He tuas a "disinherited nephew." Then came
the mysterious hope held out of recovering
"that" of Which he had been "unjustly defrauded."
The writer evidently, therefore,
considered that injustice and fraud had been
perpetrated. This tallied with all the dissatisfaction
and suspicion which had of late been
boiling within him. His heart (I allude to the
corporeal organ) began to thump audibly.

He had been right then in his vague surmises.
This person, whoever he was  and
he certainly must be somebody dio knew 
had reason for calling the disposition of his
uncle's property a " fraud." Did that mean
that the will was forged, or that his uncle had
been unduly influenced ? And this unknown
friend would help him  help him to recover
that which he had lost, i.e., Michael Gale's
money.

Oswald felt choked. He flung open the
window, and leant out, gasping for breath.
His brain grew quite dizzy ; every pulse in



his body tingled and danced. After a few
minutes lead elapsed, his self-control returned,
and with it a frantic impatience to act. He
seized a pen and paper, and wrote wildly, 

Oswald Power has seen F.'s advertisement.
Does it allude to him ? If so, please
explain all at once, by return of post.
Address, Cragstone Edge, Craithwaite, Westmoreland."


Of course it was not till the afternoon that
this note could be carried away by the postman,
and two days must necessarily elapse
before he could get an answer to it. Still,
the first step had been taken, and Oswald felt
a delightful sense of elation and expectation.
He spent the intervening two days in a fever
of impatience. He thought of nothing else.
He read the advertisement over a thousand
times, finding out hidden meanings in every
word of it. He could neither eat nor sleep,
nor even smoke. His imagination ran riot.
He pictured to himself a lawyer's letter, informing
him that Val was a former : a doctor's
certificate, proving his uncle to have been
insane at the time that he made his will, or
even  so completely Alas his somewhat feeblemind
thrown off" its balance  a letter from
his uncle in the flesh, to say that he had
never died at all, but had only hidden himself
away, and played this trick upon his
nephews in order to test which of them was
worthiest to be his heir.

Only why did these people write from
Hampstead ? That was a puzzle to him.
Oswald did not think he had ever been to
Hampstead in his life, and certainly he knew
nobody who lived there ; and as to Mr Sweeting,
the confectioner, it did really seem to him to
be very odd that upon so important a subject
the advertiser should have condescended to
make use of so contemptible a medium as a
"tuck shop." However, he consoled himself
by reflecting that this was probably done asa
blind so as not to attract suspicion to the
real address of the j)ei'son who called himself
F."

The important day arrived at last. Oswald
was up betimes, and the postman, a lame old
man, who seemed slower and lamer than ever,
did at last actually deliver the expected letter
into his hands.

After all it was somewhat disappointing.
F " was disposed to be cautious.

"I do mean you, Mr Oswald Power," said
the mysterious writer. " Are you disposed to
follow up a clue to the detriment of your
cousin, Mr Eyre ? Address as before."

Now this was not at all what Oswald had
expected. It was unsatisfactory. The writer
had apparently no great and startling information
to impart. There was only a " clue " to
be unravelled. Oswald's eagerness received a
check ; nevertheless, though less sanguine, he
was not inclined to neglect the faintest chance

that moonlit restore to him his lost inheritance.
Accordingly, he answered the letter. Yes, he
was disposed to do anything the writer wished.
Would he kindly enlighten him farther ?

The answers of the mysterious writer, who
still continued to preserve the incognito of the
letter " F." shall here be set forth in their
order.

No. 1.  "You are exactly where you should
be, nothing could have happened better. It
is at Cragstone Edge that all researches must
be made. They must be made by myself and
by you ; no one else must be in the secret.
How can I come, and where can I lodge ? "

No. 2.  " The question you ask is a fair one.
I suspect the existence of another will. The
suggestion you make is impossible ; I cannot
stay in the same house with you, although I
shall probably spend many hours of every day
at the Tower. Can you not find me a lodging
in the village ? "

No. 3, and last.  '' What you propose is
perfectly ridiculous. To begin with, I do not
know how I could get into the employ of
Messrs Flock & Panel. I have no knowledge

o

of auy trade connected with house decoration,
nor have I any references to give to any firm
that would induce them to take me on to their
list of workmen. Your second suggestion, that
I should come up to the country and engage
myself as a gardener amongst the men employed
in the laying out of the grounds, is

equally impracticable. To begin with, I could
not dig nor hoe up turf nor wheel a heavy
wheelbarrow. I am small of stature and
physically weak ; in short, you must find
some other way of introducing me into the
immediate neighbourhood of the Tower without
attracting suspicion. I think I had better
tell you that it is impossible to me to disguise
myself as a workman, for the simple reason 
that I am a woman."

The murder was out ! and Oswald sat staring
at the words which contained the revelation
with dismay and almost with consternation.

He recovered, however, very shortly from
the shock which the discovery of the sex of
*' F." occasioned him.

A fresh and very exciting feature, moreover,
was now added to the mystery !

AN INVASION.

Emma ! it will kill me ! "

"Now, Bella, don't take on soit
mayn't be true."

"But the bare idea is too awful !
And I was getting on so well too ! Oh ! the
nasty, mean, underhand, spiteful creature !
Oh oh oh "

Bella Malsham lay face downwards upon
her bed, sobbing bitterly. Her mother stood
by her, endeavouring to administer hope and
consolation.

Now, my dear, don't cry like that ; you'll
only spoil your looks." At this Bella sat half
up, dabbed her swollen eyes with a liinp and
rag-like handkerchief, and made an effort to
control herself. " You see it was only a
rumour your father heard that Mr Eyre was
engaged to her. It's probably false. Humours
mostly are. I wouldn't pay any attention toit
if I were you. He's not so easily caught,

depend upon it  and a girl like Madeline
Abbott"

Designing minx ! " muttered her crestfallen
rival.

"That has got herself talked about all over
the place, first with one man and then with
another, isn't likely to take Mr Eyre's fancy 
gentlemen don't care to marry that sort of girl."

"Oh, and all those lovely antimacassars,
too ! " cried Bella, bursting forth into fresh sobs
at the recollection. *' There they are all ready
washed and all  and I was so looking forward
to giving them, and now  oh  oh ! "

Now, look here, I tell you what we'll do.
I'll write him a line this very day to say weare
coming, and we will go to tea there tomorrow,
and take the chair-backs with us. I
am sure he must be touched by it, for they
are beautifully worked. I don't think Miss
Abbott could work anything so well for him,
not if she tried for ever ! "

'' No  that she couldn't ! "

'well, I think Mr Eyre will be gratified
by your attention, and we shall find out how
the land lies. Besides, even if they are engaged,
they aren't married yet, and 'there's
many a slip,' you know. Come, cheer up,
Bella. I'll go and write at once."

The note which Mrs Malsham wrote that
day, announcing the intended visit of herself
and her daughter at five o'clock on the morrow,
unless she heard to the contrary," arrived at

Yal's rooms, in Claroes Street, on the mornings
on which he was at Hampstead. The note,
together with several others, was stuck up on
his mantelshelf to await his return. Mrs
Malsham therefore received no answer to it.

Punctually at five o'clock the lady and her
daughter arrived at the door.

'Is Mr Eyre at home?"

No, ma'am ; but I expect him in every
minute."

Oh, then we will go upstairs and wait for
him," and Mrs Malsham sailed away up the
narrow staircase, followed closely by Bella.
Val's valet, who had answered the door,
looked after them uneasily, not being quite
sure that he ought to have allowed them too



get in ; but, being a country youth, and almost
as simple-minded as his master, he came to
the conclusion that as the ladies were so confident,
that they must surely be expected, so
he WTiit up after them, drew forward a couple
of arm-chairs, requested them politely to be
seated, and retired, closing the door after
him.

Rather cool, I must say," remarked Mrs
Malsham, " his not being at home to receive
us. However, young men are all unpunctual,
and most of them are uncivil. We must take
them as we find them, my dear, and make the
best of them."

I don't see any preparations for tea," said
Bella, looking round the room uneasily.

VOL. II. D

Neither were there. The table was littered
over with papers and parcels.

I daresay the wally is making it," said her
mother, fanning herself with her pocket-handkerchief,
for the day was warm.

Bella had deposited her parcel of " chair-backs
" upon the already encumbered table,
and now proceeded to make a tour of inspection
round the room. She examined the
pictures upon the walls, and the china in the
cabinets  which were mostly relics of Oswald's
reign  she peered inquisitively at the titles of
the books that lay on a side table, and she
gave a special attention to the photographs in
plush frames upon the mantelpiece. It was
wonderful that she did not turn over the little
heap of letters that lay in front of the clock,
for then she would have seen, amongst them,
her mother s note unopened. She would certainly
have done so had not the fancy suddenly
taken her to penetrate into the inner sanctuary
of Val's bedroom. The portiere curtains were
not drawn quite closely to, and Bella, who was
in a lively and excited mood, cried out that
she must  she really must  just peep in.

Oh, Bella, you had better not. Supposing
he were to come back ? "

Oh, you will hear him coming upstairs,
and call out." Bella's blue bonnet had already
thrust itself boldly through the curtains. " Oh,
what a love of a dressing-table, all covered
with silver-topped bottles, and such a darling

mirror, in an old-fashioned frame ! and I really
must have a look at these photographs  I
mioht find Miss Abbott's amongst them. Here
is one by his bedside. Ah ! it's only an old
woman ! I don't believe in that engagement
one bit, mamma, or he would have her picture
about somewhere." By this time Miss Malsham
had disappeared bodily from her parent's view,
and was careering boldly about in the inner
room, calling out loudly to her mother as she
pursued her investigations. She turned over
the trinkets on the dressing-table, helped herself
to scent out of one of the silver-topped
bottles, arranged her bonnet strings before
the glass, and even half opened one of the
drawers. " A whole drawer full of such lovely
silk pocket-handkerchiefs ! " she called out to
her mother, " and another below it full of new
lavender gloves. Law ! what a lot of balls he
must go to, to want all these ! "

'' Oil, Bella ! do be careful ! " cried out Mrs
Malsham ; " you really oughtn't to open the
drawers, or pull the things about  it's really
not safe ; he might walk in at any minute."

But Bella's courage, which had been small at
first, was now equal to anything. Le premiere
pas had been timid and vacillating, but she
was bold as brass by this time.

She only laughed aloud in answer to her
mother, crying out gaily, 

Mind you walk out, mamma, as we arranged,
and leave me to put the chair-backs on. I shall

UNWtRSlTY OF 

be a long time fitting them on, I promise you.
You must go the very minute you have
swallowed your tea."

'' I only wish I could see a chance of getting
any tea to swallow," complained her mother
Vigorously. "We have been here five-and-twenty
minutes now, and not a sign of
him."

Val Eyre was at that very minute hastening
home. He had arrived in town early in the
morning, and had sent his boy home by a cab
with a message that he would be in about 

o

o'clock. Since then he had had a very busy
day. He had gone to Scotland Yard ; he had
been sent from there on a wild-goose chase after
a certain influential detective officer who was
recommended to him us being ]particularly
suited to carry on the search which he washed.
After running after this gentleman for sometime,
he had found out at last that he had just
gone off on important business down to Wales ;
so then he had had to come back and see another
member of the force, and lay his case in
his hands. All this had taken a great deal of
time.

The day was sultry, and Val was very tired,
a good deal worried, and not a little ruffled in
temper, for he had not been able to find a
moment to fly to his Madeline. However, at
the end of his work he managed to run into
Covent Garden, arm himself with a magnificent
bouquet, and then jumping into a hansom,

directed the man to drive to Clarges Street as
quickly as he coukl. It was his intention to
go in for a few moments to wash his hands
and change his clothes, and then to hurry on
at once to Chester Square.

He opened his door with a latch-key, ran
lightly upstairs two steps at a time, and
walked into his sitting-room.

The sight which greeted his eyes might well
cause him to stand aghast and speechless at
the doorway !

A fat elderly lady, with her bonnet strings
untied, her mantle thrown back, and her gloves
off, was seated at ease in the most comfortable
of his arm-chairs, fanning herself with her
pocket-handkerchiefs and at the very same moment
from behind the curtains which screened
off his bedroom issued a young lady in a blue
bonnet and a tartan-patterned gown of truly
wonderful hues, who turned first white and
then red, and then giggled in rather a foolish
and conscious manner. Yal's face must certainly
in that first moment of horror have
expressed the emotions which he inwardly experienced.
Surprise, dismay, disgust  anger
even, as he contemplated the audacious young
woman who had dared to penetrate into his
very bedroom, chased each other across his
countenance. But Mrs Malsham had the gift
of true generalship. If Val was allowed to
speak first, the campaign was as good as lost
to her. She gave him no such chance, before

lie had even found his breath ; she charged at
him boldly, 

'eat last! you truant!" she cried; rising
and meeting him with outstretched hands.
Upon my word you are a nice young gentleman
to ask two ladies to tea with you, and
then keep them waiting very nearly half-an-hour.
Look at the clock, sir ; are you not
quite ashamed of yourself ? "

This was carrying war into the enemy's
country indeed. Poor Yal looked confounded.

'' I asked you to tea ! " he repeated, looking
feebly and with distress from one lady to the
other with a bewildered idea that he might
certainly have invited them, but that in the
excitement of the events of the last two days
it must have gone utterly out of his memory.
I  I am truly sorry, Mrs Malsham," he
faltered with contrition. '' I am afraid I must
have utterly forgotten it ; and even now I am
so stupid, I don't seem able to remember when
the eno'aoement was made."

Well, well, never mind, we will say no
more about it ; but I don't think you did
quite forget us, Mr Eyre," said the elder lady
archly, " for look at that glorious bouquet you
have brought in your hand as a peace-offering.
I must say, Mr Ejae, you are the most gallant
young man of my acquaintance ; a little attention
like that is worth, to my mind, any number
of empty compliments, such as most young
men now-a-days are always paying to the young

ladies. Bella, my dear, did you ever see such
lovely flowers ; they are quite too exquisite.
You certainly are a very lucky girl."

Now, what was Yal to do, or how inform
Bella, who came forward smiling radiantly,
that the bouquet for which she held out her
hands, and which her mother seemed to have
taken for granted was intended for her, had
had quite another destination ? Val was incapable
of such an explanation. There was
nothing for it but to resign the bouquet which
had been meant for Madeline into the eager
hands of his younger visitor. Truly, Mrs
Malsham was a very serpent for cunning !

And then Bella thanked him very prettily.

How lovely, how delicious ! How very,
very good of you to think of me, to remember
how fond I am of flowers ! I
am afraid you looked cross at me for being
in your bedroom, Mr Eyre ; but I only went
in to arrange my bonnet strings, and to get a
pin from your toilet-table. I hope you won't
think I was intruding ? "

Oh no ; pray don't mention it," said
Val.

You see we have been here so long, and it
is so hot to-day," remarked Mrs Malsham, who
began seriously to wonder if any refreshment
would be forthcoming at all.

And you have had no tea ! " cried Val, his
hospitable instinct reviving at once. " I really
am quite distressed that you should have

waited so long." He rang the bell sharply.
'' Bring tea at once. Why on earth didn't
you get it ready directly these ladies came ? "
he asked, angrily, of the valet, glad possibly
to vent his irritation on somebody.

It will take some minutes to make, will it
not ? " asked Mrs Malsham, exchanging a rapid
glance with her daughter. " Then I think, Mr
Eyre, if you will allow me, I will just run out
to a shop in Piccadilly where I am bound to
go ; it will not take me ten minutes, and I
will leave Bella here to do a little business
with you. She has brought her little offering
you know, Mr Eyre ! Only the dear child is
so modest about it. Well, I'm off; the tea
will be ready when I come back, no doubt. I
shall be back before it comes up ! "

And hurriedly knotting her bonnet ribbons,
and flinging her mantle over her arm, Mrs
Malsham departed, waving her fingers playfully
at them as she left the room ; and Yal,
to his inexpressible disgust, was left alone with
Bella.

Inwardly he groaned. There would be no
visit to Chester Square for him that afternoon,
that was certain ! The invaders had evidently
every intention of occupying the stronghold
they had taken by storm for as long a time
as they could decently maintain their position.
And what would Madeline think of
him ? With a little frown on his brow he
walked to the mantelpiece, and took up his

bundle of letters. Bella was slowly taking
off her gloves at the table, preparatory to
the unpacking of the " offering."

Will you excuse me ? " said Val, politely.

*' Oh, certainly."

He tore open his letters, one after the
other. Surely, he said to himself, surely she
has written ; and then he recollected that he
did not know her handwriting. *'I shall
know it soon well enough no doubt," he
reflected with a little smile ; but meanwhile
he was obliged to open each letter to see
if one of them was from her. The last one
in his hand seemed as if it must be the one
he looked for. The address was decidedly
in a lady's handwriting, and he opened it
with a beating; heart, and found  Mrs
Malsham's note !

Madeline had not written at all.

He was for a moment bitterly disappointed
; but quickly recovered himself as he
gathered from the note in his hand the secret
of the invasion of which he was the victim.

I think, Miss Malsham, your mother
must exonerate me from intentional rudeness
in the matter of your visit to-day  
here I find is a note from her amongst
my unopened letters, proposing that you
and she should come to-day  that is a
different matter from an invitation forgotten
the giver of it."

You did not get the letter ? " cried

Bella ; " but you should have got it by
the first post this morning ; it was posted
last night, I know ! "

I was away from home last night ; in
fact, I have only this moment returned."

Bella looked dismayed for a moment, then
she laughed pleasantly.

' Well, that explains the mistake then ! "
she exclaimed. " You will see mamma says
in her note that we would come, ' unless we
heard to the contrary.' As you did not write,
of course we concluded we were to come."

I see  I am very sorry."

sorry that we came ? "

Oh no ! 1 did not mean that." Yal was
not quite sure that this was strictly true ; but
then, what on earth was he to say? He could not
tell the girl, who was drawing; out one after the
other the most delicately embroidered labours
of her own hands, in his service, that he was
sorry for the accident which had brought her
here to present her gifts.

As to Bella, she knew now  not only that
Yal had not expected them, but also that the
bouquet could not have been intended for
herself. Not, however, for that was she minded
to give it up  she only wondered who on earth
it had been meant for, and inwardly resolved
to stick to it herself. Val  had she known it
now that Bella Malsham's hands had held it,
and her nose buried itself in the fragrance of
its blossoms, would not have deemed it good

enough to lay at Madeline Abbott's feet. But
this was beyond Bella's comprehension.

She shan't get it ; whoever she is ! " washer
mental resolve. ''I shall stick to it now,
and if it was meant for that spiteful cat, I'm
delighted to think I've got it away from her ! "
Aloud she said, " And here are the chair-backs,
Mr Eyre. I do hope you won't despise them ! "

Despise them ! how could I ? they are
lovely, I am sure  far too good for me."

Oh no ; don't say that  how could they
be too good for you ! " she had sunk down
upon her knees, in order to fit the first of the
muslin covers on to the nearest arm-chair 
the attitude was lowly, but she flattered herself
that it was impressive.

She cast her brown eyes beseechingly up
at him  they said unutterable things  with
her lips she said  " Please bring me some
pins, Mr Eyre ? "

Val obeyed.

Now, come and help me  hold this corner
down, that is it  so  "

The first cover fitted perfectly. Not so the
second. Miss Malsham was disgusted ; it hung
in wrinkles, looked disgraceful, she said. She
must take it home and alter it ; the third was
no better than the second.

I must take them back and alter them,
and then I can bring them back another day."

Yal's heart quailed as he heard this  it
meant another visit.

"Oh, pray don't think of such a thing!"
he cried, quite eagerly. " 1 couldn't hear of
your taking so much trouble, and really they
fit very nicely  just one more pin here  will
not that do it ? "

Not in the least ; they must be cut and
taken in properly. I shall only be a day or
two about it  it is no trouble at all, and I
could not think of allowing them to remain as
they are."

Poor Val remonstrated in vain. They were
lovely, he said  no one would ever notice so
slight a defect ; and, besides, if they really
wanted alteration, his landlady could do it
perfectly. This put the finishing stroke to his
offences. Bella  to his intense horror and
dismay  suddenly dropped the visiting chair-back,
and burst into tears.

Good heavens. Miss Malsham ! what have
I said ? What is the matter % ' he cried.

'' Oh, how unkind you are !" sobbed Bella ;
they were not sobs such as she had uttered on
the previous day, in the privacy of her own
bedroom  when her woe had been real indeed,
and had resulted in red eyes and a swollen
nose  these were sobs of another character 
soft choking sounds that issued from behind
her lace-bordered pocket - handkerchief, and
that left, in the matter of actual tears, everything
to the imagination of the beholder. The
beholder, in this case, took the tears for granted,
and was as bewildered as he was distressed 

he could not think what was the matter. Bella,
however, proceeding chokingly to explain.

When it has been such a joy  to  to work
them for you, When  I  I have thought of
you, all the time so  hap  happily, and you
talk of letting the landlady touch them, when
when  I wouldn't even let my sister lay a
finger on them ! it's too hard and cruel, oh 
I  I  can't bear it."

Val was seriously uneasy ; he dreaded what
Miss Malsham might be going to say next 
but he dreaded a scene or a violent attack of
hysterics far more ; his alarm made him unusually
tender in his attentions ; he placed
her in an arm-chair, fetched some eau de
Cologne and dabbed it on her forehead, and
beo;o'ed her to forgive him, and to calm herself;
he was really afraid that the heat had upset
her, and that she was going to be ill. Bella
suddenly clutched his arm, and let her head,
bonnet, and all sink upon his shoulder.

*' Oh, how good you are ! " she cried ; " how
kind and good to poor, poor Bella ! "

And at that moment the door opened ; in
came Mrs Malsham, back from her " shopping"
in Piccadilly, followed closely by the servant,
bearing the tea-tray. Val made an effort to
release himself, but Miss Malsham was apparently
deep, and perhaps half unconscious 
for she clung on with pertinacity to the arm
she had succeeded in capturing, for at least
ten seconds after they where no longer alone.

The tableau of a weeping young lady, reposing
upon a consoling young gentleman's
shoulder, was thus plainly exhibited in all its
graceful details, both to Bella's mother and to
Mr Eyre's valet.

Well, my dear," said Mrs Malsham to her
daughter as they were driving homewards
towards Kensington Garden Square, fully
half-an-hour later, " after this  what with the
bouquet, and what with your lying in his
arms, and he bending over ou in quite a
lover-like fashion, as was seen by myself and
also by the man-servant  I think your father
might quite well ask his intentions."

I think I managed pretty well, mamma,
didn't I ? " said Miss Bella, with a smile of
self-congratulation.

"Admirably, my love. Are you going back
to fit the chair-covers '? "

Naturally  here are the two that didn't
fit ! I shall certainly take them back in a
day or two."

I think, if you are clever, we might at
least manage a breach o promise  and
damages."

I hope to do better than that," rejoined
her daughter sweetly. " I am not quite a
fool, mamma, dear ! "

ZifMwmmj

A W E D OF WARNING.

HERE was someone else who, in
these days, was very unhappy indeed,
but whose grief did not
exactly take the same manner of
showing itself as did the woe  real or imaginary
 of Miss Bella Malsham.

As the gay summer weeks wore away, as
rumour passed into certainty, and gossip
merged into conviction, Betty Ormond learnt
beyond the shadow of doubt that Valentine's
suit had been successful, and that Madeline
Abbott was to be his wife. And Betty was
very miserable. She did not in truth show
her misery openly. She did not weep nor
wail nor bemoan herself  for she was proud ;
and she told herself that because she had
foolishly and weakly permitted her heart to
wander forth unsought and unasked for to this
-there was in this no cause for sorrow.

man-but

rather for repentance over her folly. Valentine,
she told herself, had never loved her 
perhaps, indeed, if they had met oftener among
those far-away hills in the north where they
had looked into each other's eyes with the confidence
of youth, and with the freshness of a
new and delightful sympathy of taste and
feeling, perhaps then he might have learnt to
care for her perhaps  but oh ! of wiat avail
now where these vague and hopeless conjectures.


Valentine's life had been strangely and
miraculously altered  from a position that was
poor and lowly and unknown, he had been
suddenly raised to the highest pinnacle of
social popularity ; his wealth had stepped in
between them ; new friends, new interests had
arisen mushroom-like around him, and had
hidden from him the girl whose conscious
heart was too proud and pure to remind him
in his prosperity of the friend of his poorer
days.

Thus it had seemed to be to her. Valentine
had neither been false nor fickle nor forgetful
; he had only never loved her ! whilst
she, poor, foolish Betty ! she had suffered his
image to steal into her heart, and had weakly
surrendered herself in silence to him who had
unconsciously made himself the master of her
soul.

And now he was utterly lost to her. Her
last dream was over ; her lingering hope dispelled

for ever, and she was miserable ! But
no one knew of her misery but herself. Her
step was as light, her laughter as gay, her
smile as brig-ht as ever; sooner than have been
changed in these things she would have suffered
martyrdom. Only deep down in her heart
there was a cold, numbed feeling  a dead sensation
of blank unreality that warped her
whole nature, so that in her own ears at least
her laughter was hollow and mirthless, and
her words a mere purposeless jingle of sounds.

She was reckless, too  for what did it matter
what became of her ?  who loved her ?  who
married her ?  of what use was the mockery
of her life ?  of what profit could the empty,
aimless years of the future be now to her ?
She became quieter and more docile  she
listened patiently to Lady Cornelia, received
her instructions without rebellion, her lectures
upon matrimony without those flashes of hot-spirited
indignation that were wont to cause
her ladyship so much annoyance. She was
very good," she was told in these days ; quite
a " dear, sweet sensible child." Lady Cornelia
was delighted with the cliano;e in her headstrong
charge, and was never tired of expatiating
to her sister upon the improvement in
her lack sheep's temper and disposition.

"They only want breaking in, you see,
Helena," she would say to her sister. "You
see how different she is now ; quite sweet and
humble. I really thought at one time that I

VOL. II. E

should never do any good with Betty ; that
she would take the bit in her mouth, and bolt
altogether, that she would end by making
some dreadful, imprudent, runaway marriage
that would disgrace us all ; but now, thank
heaven, firmness and good discipline have prevailed.
I don't despair of seeing her properly
and suitably settled before the season is
out  and Warlock is coming on nicely ! "

But these were times when Betty was
lamentably changed from her former self ;
days when she was no longer the life and soul
of the company in the little back room in
Bryanstone Square, when Ealph's innuendoes
were powerless to elicit a retort from her,
and when the wildest merriment on the part
of the "brats" could scarcely awaken a smile
upon her abstracted face, and it was to these
younger brothers that possibly the truth, which
she concealed so carefully from the rest of
the world, was most nearly revealed.

'* Betty is down in her luck," would say one
of these boyish tormentors.

Has another good man gone wrong ? "
would inquire Ealph, with solicitude. "Tim,
fetch the salts and the sal volatile from the
mater's medicine chest."

It's Heart disease ! " announced Tim, oracularly.
" I know the symptoms."

Smothered laughter at this from Tim, who
shook all over with delight, till Ealph collared
him from behind, and dragged him off his

chair on to the floor, where condign punishment
was swiftly administered.

Heartless youth ! to mock at the sorrows
of a love-sick damsel ! " he cried, in mock indignation,
betwixt the howls of his unfortunate
junior. " Your beautiful sister is pale and woebegone.
She lets vexation feed upon her
damask cheek ! "

Ealph, do be quiet. I wish you'd let me
alone, and leave off pummelling poor Tim."

So I will if you'll make toffee, like a brick,
instead of sitting doing nothing, like a lovesick
spooney."

Thus adjured, Betty would arouse herself,
and give herself up to tofi*ee-making ; but the
fraternal "chaff"" was not altogether suppressed.
At intervals she would be peppered
by allusions and pin pricks, which generally
took the form of poetical extracts. The
brothers would ca) each other after this
fashion : 

Alas ! alas ! my love's untrue ! " would
sigh Ealph, with his head over the saucepan,
stirring the sticky mess round and round with
a wooden spoon.

"Yes, so I've heard; another damsel he
doth woo. Awfully sad, ain't it ? ' This
from Jim, levelling in brown sugar regardless
of economy.

"She droops and withers like a fading
flower," would add Tim, with a sorrowful air.

Here ! drown your sorrows in the flowing

bowl, my poppet!" and the wooden spoon,
running over with hot, half cooked toffee,
would be thrust forcibly under her nose. Then
Betty would laugh, and, with an effort, become
herself again for a time. She often wondered
where these fiendish fraternal torturers learnt
the secret of their unerring weapons of attack,
although, like all members of a large disorderly
family, she knew of old, and by constant experience,
and that there are no inquisitors so
sharp and so wide-awake as a conclave of
schoolboy brothers. Tim and Jim, led on by
graceless EaljDh, were capable of fathoming
any family mystery that might come, however
remotely, in their way.

And yet all these familiar, homelike attacks,
remorseless, but rendered perfectly innocuous
by the fun and the good-tempered ridicule
that prompted them, were as nothing compared
to the pain which she underwent in society,
when she was under her aunt's care.

She had to sit by and hear Valentine Eyre,
his fortune, his enoagemBnt, his good or bad
luck  as the case might be  in marrying Miss
Abbott discussed by all sorts of people, and in
all kinds of ways. She was asked for her
opinion upon the match, pressed to tell what
she knew of Mr Eyre before he had become
rich, and expected to join in encomiums upon
Madeline's beauty. She acquitted herself
well on the whole. No one who heard her
calm and easy answers, given with her usual

pleasant smile and manner, would for a moment
have guessed with what sickening; sense of
wretchedness and despair she went through
these almost daily catechising, nor how intensely
sometimes she longed to turn and fly
to some solitary place, far away, where Madeline's
name should no looser half-madden her
with hopeless jealousy, nor the ever-present
spectacle of Val Eyre's happiness torture her
heart with constant and unavailing; regrets.

For she saw them together everywhere.
Side by side in the Eow on sunny mornings,
the lovers would ride slowly past her ; Madeline
on a beautiful thoroughbred chesnut mare,
which Val had given her. Madeline looking
glorious in her beauty  a very queen amongst
women ; whilst Yal, leaning a little forward
in his saddle, saw neither man, nor woman, nor
child in the throng, but only seemed to live in
the rapturous and ecstatic contemplation of
the beautiful woman at his side.

Betty, sitting by her aunt's side, under the
shade, with only the path and the railings
dividing; her from this sight, would feel her
eyes burn and smart as they were riveted upon
these two riders with a curious sensation of
painful fascination.

There go the lovers," somebody beside
her would remark ; "do you see them, Miss
Ormond ? He is on the grey. What a lovely
chesnut Eyre has given her."

Lovely, is it not ? " Betty would assent.

with a smile. " Miss Abbott looks very
band some this morning."

*rob, sbe is a splendid creature ; and be a
lucky dog. Don't you think so ? "

Her heart acted with a pain that was almost
physical ; but sbe assented readily, and
even continued talking for a few minutes upon
the topic of Madeline's beauty, lest the empty-beaded
young gentleman wbo stood gossiping
in front of ber should imagine that sbe was
anxious to turn the conversation into another
channel.

In the afternoon again, if sbe went to Hurt
or drove in ber aunt's carriage, sbe
would in all probability come across the happy
couple once more. Yal would be driving ber
in bis phaeton, or walking beside ber with
lover-like devotion ; and at every ball and
evening party to wbicb Betty was taken, there
also would be Yal and bis lady-love, inseparable,
and apparently wrapped up in each
other.

Not once did Betty exchange a word with
either of them. It is very easy to meet over
and over again in the whirl of the London
day ; to be in the same crowded rooms night
after night, and yet never to address a syllable
to a person whom you bave no great desire to
speak to  and this can be done without the
smallest appearance of coldness or of bad
manners. A distant bow, a smile as you pass
upon a crowded staircase, is generally all that

is necessary  all indeed which, without a deliberate
effort on both sides, is often possible.
And in this case, although Val and Betty did
not avoid one another, they certainly made no
effort to address each other.

Betty was afraid of her own heart and of
her power of hiding her secret agitation ;
whereas Yal not only disapproved of Miss
Ormond and her conduct, and considered her
unworthy to be the friend of his future wife,
but was, moreover, so foolishly and infatuatedly
in love with Madeline, that he was for the
time absolutely regardless of the residue of
creation.

As to Madeline, she had, as it will be imagined,
her own private reasons for desiring to
see and speak to Betty as seldom as she
possibly could ; her bow was now of the coldest
and most elementary nature, and she
secretly determined that, after she was married,
she would cut her altogether. Betty was
sensitive. She understood that Madeline desired
to drop her acquaintance, and she attributed
it to the fact that she had possibly
known more about Miss Abbott's relations
with Oswald in the past, than she would
care that Val should discover. It was all
very natural to Betty, and the result was what
Madeline desired  a complete estrangement
between herself and her former friend  an
estrangement in which Valentine, as was
natural, also took part.

As to Val, this was the golden summer of
his life ; he lived in a trance of perfect happiness
; the world, which once had seemed to him
to be so dull and sombre a place, was now
full of perpetual sunshine. He heard others
talk of its hollo ness and disappointments ; of
its sorrows and its weariness ; but they spoke
as it were in an unknown tongue, and their
words were meaningless in his ears. It
seemed to him that he possessed within himself
an eternal spring of joy and delight
with which outer things could never intermeddle
; that he had found in very truth the
secret of true happiness. There was nothing
under the sun worth a man's while to possess,
said Val to himself in his exultation, if that
one thing  the true love of a good woman 
were wanting to him !

Madeline was absolute perfection in his
eyes  sweet, gracious, and loving, always
anxious to please him, and to fall in with
his wishes. This, indeed, was perhaps scarcely
wonderful, since his only desire was to gratify
her smallest caprice. He showered presents
upon her without number  jewellery, laces,
ornaments of every kind came daily to be
laid at her feet, whilst her rooms were a
perfect garden of flowers, and her tables
littered over with costly china and quaint
bits of old silver, which he had given her.
Madeline found him in this respect a very
satisfactory lover indeed. In other matters

he often wearied her. The love oppressed
her ; the constant devotion ; the somewhat
high-flown rhapsodies in which he often indulged
oave her a sense of suffocation. She
would have preferred a more practical lover, 
one who would have taken all these subjects
for granted, and not tormented her about her
feelings.

It sometimes came into her mind that she
would be wise in her generation were she
to have a second string to her bow, in case
things went wrong, or there was a hitch of
any kind at the last. The spirit of intrigue
was still awake and active within her, and
Madeline had received too many rebuff's of
fortune not to know that no woman is secure
of her position until her wedding-ring is on
her finger. She kept her eyes open, and
meanwhile Yal found her perfection.

There was only one little matter of which
he ever had occasion to complain. Madeline
would never write to him. She sent him
verbal answers to his notes  messages by a
servant, messages by her father, a telegram
even would sometimes come from her, but
never a letter.

I never write letters," she would say,
carelessly, in answer to his playful reproaches
on this subject. "What do you want letters
for ? I see you every day."

But I do not even know your handwriting,
Madeline."

You shall know it then ! " she cried, laughingly,
drawing his arm, half-playfully, half-caressingly,
to her, and scribbled upon his
shirt cufF with her gold pencil, " Madeline
Abbott  her mark."

But it was not in the characters in which
she had written to Oswald Power that she
wrote the words.

*' Write to me to-night," he urged, '' a dear,
sweet letter, that I can read over and over
again. Post it to-night, so that I may get
it the first thing in the morning."

She promised, smiling at him with her
glorious eyes. But when the morning came
there was never any letter ; only, perhaps,
a message would come round after his
breakfast.

Miss Abbott's love, and she had a bad
headache last night, but was better this morning,
if Mr Eyre would call and see her.

Yet, after all, this was but a small matter,
and it troubled him very little ; only,
in the days that were to come he remembered
it.

One morning he was proceeding, as usual,
across the Green Park on his way from Clarges
Street to Chester Square, in order to receive
Madeline's directions for the day  to learn
whether she would ride, or drive, or walk  to
ask her if she would like a box at a theatre
or the opera  if he should give her and her
father a dinner at Buckingham, or at his

rooms, and generally to gather from lier what
were her wishes and fancies. This was his
daily business  to find out her smallest
whims, so as to gratify them instantly. The
morning was grey and showery, but warm.
He walked quickly, carrying in his hand a
bunch of stephanotis flowers that he had
paused for an instant in Piccadilly to get
for her. He was not given to much lingering
when he was on his way to Chester Square.
He was eager to see once more with his eyes
her whom his soul loved well." Oh, for the
day when she would be his entirely, and forever
1 he said to himself, with a short sigh
of impatience, as he walked.

And so filled with a lover's all-absorbing
meditations, it was no wonder that he never
saw a young gentleman, with sandy hair, and
a snub nose of an aristocratic outline, who
was lingering before him on the gravel pathway,
with the evident intention of waylaying
him. The personage in question, perceiving
that Val's eyes were fixed on vacancy, and
that he seemed absolutely unconscious of his
proximity, addressed him by name.

Mr Eyre, sir ! "

Yal pulled himself up short.

What ! Jim Wright ! " he exclaimed, and
held out his hand.

Mr Wright drew his forth with some timidity
out of his trousers pocket. He had
evidently hardly expected that his late fellow-clerk,

who was now so great a man, would
condescend to shake hands with him.

I did not see you, Wright," said Val,
heartily. " Well, and how are you getting
on at the old place ? "

Oh, pretty well, thanks, Mu Eyre. I took
the liberty of stopping you this morning. I've
sometimes seen you come this way before.
I live in Chelsea, you know, and it's on
my road to the office. There was something,
Mr Eyre, I wanted to say to you."

"Yes, certainly."

I shall never forget your goodness to me,
Mr Eyre," began the clerk, and stopped short.

My dear fellow, I know of no goodness.
We are old friends, you know."

Mr Wright did not answer ; he seemed
moved. In the interval of silence, a sharp
sound was distinctly audible. Val perceived
that his old comrade was cracking a nut. No
doubt he had never ceased cracking nuts since
their last interview.

With deliberation Jim Wrio-ht removed the
shells from between his teeth, and popped another
nut into his mouth. He did not seem to
eat the kernels, only to find some kind of mental
consolation in the action of cracking the shells.

It seems troubling you with a very little
matter," he began presently, in a doubtful
way; "but I shall never forget that tenner
you gave me. Ah ! sir, you'd never guess
what that tenner did for me ! "

Do you want another, old chap ? You
shall have it directly, if you like ! " cried Val,
laying his hand upon the shabby sleeve of
Jim Wright's threadbare coat. "Or is there
any way in which I can help you ? "

Val remembered, with a pang of reproach,
how utterly he had forgotten poor Jim Wright's
existence, and there came back to him, with
pain, a vision of Mr Malsham's office ; of the
dust and dreariness, of the unending monotony
of the daily routine ; of the incessant toil, the
endless drudgery, and yet he, who had escaped
all this, had given no thought to the man who
was left behind, and who had, for so many
long years, been his fellow-labourer.

But Mr Wright did not want any money.
He coloured up to the roots of his sandy haue
as he declared emphatically that he wanted
nothing.

It is not about myself, but about you," he
answered hastily. " I wanted to ask you a
question ; you will not, I hope, think me
impertinent ; but is there, do you imagine,
anyone who is likely to do you a bad turn ?
Have you an enemy ? "

He asked this anxiously, with his head on
one side, and his eyes screwed up inquiringly,
as he peered up into Val's face.

An enemy ? " repeated Val, in surprise.
No ; I should say not one on earth. Why ?
what makes you ask such a question ? "

Well, the fact is, that Mr Malsham desired

me to copy a letter he received the other
day ; it was an anonymous one."

An anonymous letter ! and about me ?
Did not Malsham put it straight into the
fire ? "

No ; he answered it himself. He may
have reproved the writer. I do not know ;
he did not show me his answer."

*' But this anonymous letter ; was it about
me?"

It referred to the late Michael Gale's will."

What on earth can there be to say about
that ? The will was as clear as daylight ! "

The writer seemed to imply that there
existed, either in his possession or in your own,
a document of a later date ; a codicil, in fact."

Val uttered a long-drawn whistle.

'' I did not think you ought to be kept in
ignorance of it. You did me a good turn
once. James Wright is not one ever to forget
a benefit."

Turn round with me, Wright, and take a
turn round the Park," said Val gravely. And
he was very late at Chester Square that
morning.

m.

A VISIT TO HAMPSTEAD.

HE first " little rift within the lute,"
the small cloud "no bigger than a
man's hand," that arose afar off on
the cloudless horizon of Val's perfect
happiness came about in this wise :

Will you come out for a drive with me today,
my Madeline ? " he asked one fine morning
as they sat together in the Chester Square
drawing-room.

*' I shall be delighted, Val," answered Madeline
cordially, and looked her delight ; for a
drive with Val usually included a visit to some
eminent jeweller's establishment, visits which
gave the lady an infinite amount of satisfaction
; and then she added, with a dutiful
glance towards her father, who sat at a respectful
distance from our lovers, discreetly concealing
the major portion of his handsome person
behind his newspaper, " that is to say, if papa
will allow me to go with you."

These constant references to " papa " were a
part of the graceful code of manners which
Miss Abbott imposed upon herself in public.
Val was always filled with secret admiration at
these little points in her behaviour.

Papa lowered his paper. He now acted the
benign and indulgent stase father with such
steady regularity that he had almost forgotten
that it was not his original character.

My child, how can I refuse you anything,"
he murmured, with a benevolent smile upon
his handsome countenance ; "I have been
hitherto very particular concerning my treasure,
Valentine. I have been possibly overstrict
in shielding her carefully from the
slander and gossip of the world. I have not,
perhaps, permitted her the same latitude as
have had many of her young friends and companions,
but you will understand, my dear
Valentine, the anxieties of a widower over his
motherless girl."

Val murmured his comprehension and his
acquiescence in the wisdom of Colonel Abbott's
method of bringing up his daughter.

But now," continued the colonel, with a
wave of his taper-fingered hand  'now I am
fain to relax the severity of my rules, and to
resign her to the care of him who is so soon to
be her husband. Go, my child, with your
lover, and be happy ! "

Although Colonel Abbott had uttered a
similar kind of speech on each occasion on

which Madeline had been out in his phaeton,
it did not prevent Yal from feeling once more
deeply impressed with the wonderful and careful
manner in which he had looked after his
daughter, nor from expressing his thanks for
the paternal concession with much profusion.

Accordingly, at four o'clock precisely Yal's
phaeton, with its two handsome cobs  a purchase
lately effected expressly for Madeline's
benefit  stood at the accustomed door in
Chester Square.

Madeline came out looking blooming.

'' Make yourself, if possible, more lovely
than ever to-day," the infatuated lover had
said to her in the morning.

Why, what are we to do to-day ? " she had
asked him smilingly.

I will tell you when the time comes," he
replied, with an affectation of mystery ; and
she had made quite sure that she was to betaken
to some garden party to which he had
been requested to bring her.

She had taken care to obey his directions
very literally concerning her appearance.
Never had Madeline Abbott looked more
splendidly beautiful. She had chosen to array
herself in the palest shade of primrose-yellow :
her tiny bonnet, her diaphanous lace-trimmed
dress, her parasol, all were of the same tender
colour, only her black gloves, her hair, and
her glorious eyes relieved the uniformity
which might else have become sickly with

VOL. II. " F

touches of iutensest darkness. Seen in the
full glare of the July sunshine as she took
her place by the side of her proud and happy
lover, she looked indeed almost dazzling in
her beauty.

Sun of my life," murmured Yal rapturously,
leaning towards her as they started, " is
it because you are as bright and as unapproachable
as Phoebus in his glory, that you have
dressed yourself in sunshine's colours ? "

Yal in love, it will be noticed, was a highly
poetical personage.

"Do be quiet, Val ; your groom will overhear
you," rejoined Madeline with half a
frown, half a smile.

"I am a love-sick fool, I know," said Val,
reddening a little. " I own with shame that
I am somewhat off my head about you ; it is
all your fault, you goddess ! you have bewitched
me ! "

Well, but where are we going ?" demanded
the goddess, who had a difficulty in concealing
her impatience, and who was in full
expectation of some new and delightful
pleasure in store for her. " I see you are
turning into Piccadilly. Where are you
taking me ? "

*' Along Piccadilly, up Regent Street, up
Portland Place," began Val, smiling.

*' Up Portland Place," repeated Madeline ;
*' and then, where next ? "

Away from the crowd of London, darling,

to a place that I love, to see somebody who
is dear to me."

Yes," with puzzled inquiry, *' and that
is"

*' lam taking you up to Hampstead, Madeline,
to introduce you to my old aunt, Miss Eyre."

Now, if Madeline Abbott had only dared at
that moment to stamp and to storm, to fling
herself angrily out of Val's carriage, or even to
burst into a flood of hysterical tears of rage
and disgust, the relief to her would really have
been worth the sacrifice of any one of her
diamond trinkets. But, as it was, she was
compelled to bottle up and to smother all
these sensations within her, so that not the
faintest indication should be guessed at by her
companion.

Truth to say, she had seldom been more
furious in the whole course of her life. To
have been inveigled into putting on a bran
new gown just home from the dressmaker's, a
bonnet ditto, fresh from the milliner's, to
have spent hours over the elaboration of a
perfect chef-d'ceuvre in the matter of her toilet,
and all for what ? to be taken to call on an old
maid in a suburb ! And then to have been
carried ofl" in this fashion without a " with
your leave, or by your leave"  to be let in
without her knowledge for an expedition of
this kind, which she would have used any arts
that she knew to have avoided altogether ; it
really was too cruelly irritating !

Madeline actually hated Val for a few
minutes ; and, as to his maiden aunt, and
Hampstead and all its surroundings, there is
no describing the terms in which she secretly
anathematised them.

But not a word did she dare to utter  nota
sign could she venture to give. Only for
the space of a few seconds she was silent for
very physical distress ; she felt as though she
were about to choke.

Then, with a gulp, she swallowed it all down,
and answered serenely, smiling, 

That will be very nice, I am sure."

I knew you would say so," cried Val,
radiantly. " I knew it would please your
kind heart to go with me to see the dear old
lady. I thought I wouldn't tell you beforehand,
so that it might be a surprise for you."
Madeline stifled a grimace of disgust. *' I
was so anxious that you should look your very
best, darling ; and I must say," surveying her
fondly and proudly, "that you do."

They bowled along swiftly and pleasantly,
past the green - gardened rows of suburban
villas leading ever northwards ; the cobs went
straightly and well ; the roads were good and
even ; the air was ever fresher and sweeter as
they left London's smoke behind. Presently,
as they began to climb the long ascent that
leads up to the Heath, that, spite of defaming
Cockneyism, spite of vulgarity, and bean-masters,
of donkey boys, and delights inseparable

from the noisy festivities of the million] 
in spite of all this is still, as nature made it,
one of the loveliest and most delightful places
within twenty miles of London. As they
slowly crawled up the long hill, Yal began
talking to his beloved about the old lady they
were bound to see.

He told her of her deep love for the old
house where her father and grandfather had
died  of the worship which almost amounted
to a religion  of the passionate intensity with
which she had refused to enrich herself by
selling it  and the tenacity with which she
clung to poverty, sooner than part with it to
those who desired to destroy and deface the
time-honoured site. All this, in Yal's eyes,
was lovely and touching as poetry  he could
think of no more beautiful spectacle than of
that lone old woman clinging with faithful
affection to the inheritance of her fathers.

Of course Madeline  who, however, was but
faintly interested in this recital  simply put
Miss Eyre down as crazy, and was quite
incapable of entering into Val's admiration, for
what she privately considered the obstinate
stupidity of a pig-headed old woman. She
assented very prettily, however, to his remarks,
stilling a yawn every now and then, and
wishing that the whole business was over.

And she has had a great trouble too lately,"
continued Val ; *' a trouble that has broken hera
good deal, poor old lady. She has lost a girl,

who has run away, or been spirited away  did
I not tell you about it ? "

Oh yes ; a foundling, was it not ? But she
wasn't much loss, I should think," said Madeline,
feeling intensely bored by all this. Anything
that did not redound to the glory and
advantage of Miss Abbott, was sorely weariful
in Miss Abbott's ears.

Well, certainly, I never cared much about
Fenella Snow, although I believe she considered
herself a princess in disguise ; but my
poor aunt worshipped her  having brought
her up entirely as if she were her own child,
it was perhaps only natural, and she feels her
disappearance acutely."

Oh, she is sure to turn up again  those
kind of people never come to grief," said
Madeline, carelessly. " Will your aunt leave
her beloved house to her ? "

*' To Fenella Snow ? Oh no ; she is not an
Eyre, you see ; but here we are at the gates,
and if you do not say that Abingdon House
is the dearest, quaintest, old-world place on
earth, I shall be much disappointed, Madeline."

The old lady, in her soft grey satin dress,
with a snowy white lace cap and fichu, awaited
them in the doorway. She had certainly aged
very much of late  was thinner and whiter,
and more fragile-looking in every way ; she
was still, however, a lovely little old lady  for
there is no beauty so rare to the eyes that are
able to appreciate it as the gentle loveliness of

a white-haired, sweet-faced, old gentlewoman.
Miss Eyre was rather agitated ; her nephew's
visit, and the introduction of his future wife,
was a great and stirring event in her quiet
life  an event which gave an wholesome turn
to the unhappy thoughts that had of late
preyed upon her mind. Her eyesight seemed
weaker than ever ; there was a little fluttering
uncertainty in her manner  a diffidence that
was almost a reproduction of the timidity of a
very young girl. She remembered that this
young woman she was about to welcome, was
not only to be the wife of her dearly-loved
nephew, but also that the day would come
when she would reign as mistress at the old
house she valued so highly. Much in the
future depended, she knew, upon the character
and disposition of the woman whom Yal was
to marry.

Madeline came in to the dim shadows of
the low-roofed, dusky old hall like a flash of
something too brilliant and radiant for the
surroundings into which she stepped. Nothing
so wonderful, it may be asserted, had set foot
across that ancient threshold for more thana
century. The clear, yellow dress, the elaborations
of lace and of drapery, the diamond
beetle in her bonnet strings the vivid contrast
of her gloves and ebon black hair  all
this, which had looked so appropriate and so
suitable to her as she came out at the door in
Chester Square, and was driven through the

gay, many-coloured crowd of the London
streets, all became inharmonious and out of
place here, as she stood in that sober-tinted
house, with its faded curtains, its oak panelling,
and its dark, dust-stained family portraits.
The contrast was so glaring as to be almost
jarring. Miss Eyre felt it at once, and even
Val became vaguely conscious that he had
made a mistake in bringing her thus unprepared,
and that had he told her beforehand,
her regal beauty would have shone forth no
less gloriously in some quieter costume, which
no doubt her good taste would have suggested
to her. He could not divine, of
course, that had he done so. Miss Abbott
would have invented any pretext sooner than
have subjected herself to an expedition that
was so thoroughly tiresome to her.

Being here, however, Madeline, who had
recovered her temper, and who was gifted
with infinite tact, determined to make the
best of the situation. She had, of course,
something* of the natural desire common too



all women to appear to the best advantage
in the eyes of her future husband's relative.
She knew that this old woman was Val's only
living relation, and was not unthankful to the
Providence which had preserved her from the
aritiy of sisters, and cousins, and aunts, to say
nothing of parents in law, which it might
easily have been her fate to encounter. Old
Miss Eyre was not likely to live long, nor to

come much in her way. It was not worth
Madeline's while to anger Val by any remissness
in her manner to her.

She returned the okl lady's greetings, therefore,
with an appropriate eagerness, tempered
with modesty. She submitted very prettily
to be kissed, and to the careful and anxious
scrutiny to which the short-sighted old eyes
subjected her. Nothing could be more charming
than her words and manner. Val stood
by, glowing with delight as he watched her.
He had never felt more honestly proud of
the woman who had won his heart.

She is not a bit spoilt," he said to himself.
All the admiration, the adulation, the worship
of the world which she has received have
not sufficed to tarnish the pure gold of her
nature, or to dim the beautiful simplicity of
her heart. She is as courteous and as charming
to this poor old aunt of mine as though
she where a princess of royal blood."

They had followed Miss Eyre into the
sitting-room. Here Bridget had set forth a
goodly tea-tal)le, in honour of the occasion 
scones and muffins, floury cakes of divers
kinds, plates of watery bread and butter,
were crowded upon the snowy cloth. Madeline
glanced at the festive preparations with
secret dismay. She wondered if she would
be expected to eat of all that was prepared
in her honour.

Before I give you your tea, my dear,"

said Miss Eyre to her, " I should like to take
you all over the house. Val has no doubt
told you that my house is my idol. I do not
consider there can be another habitation like
it in all England."

And I do not wonder at your thinking so,"
replied Madeline warmly, " for it is a delightful
old house."

So the old lady took her by the hand, and
led her all over the house  Val following;
behind  into every room, every nook and corner
; in each there was something to tell and
to explain some incident of the past upon
which Miss Ann loved to expatiate.

Here it was that her father was born ; in
this room the Prince Regent had once slept 
in that recess her grandfather had stood when
he had received a real autograph letter from
His Majesty King George  and there was the
very letter framed and glazed, hung opposite
the very spot upon which he had opened the
gracious missive. Here, Miss Ann's mother
had died, and here, too, father Val had been
born. All this was a delight to Ann Eyre to
dwell upon. Val, who had heard it all many
times over, displayed nevertheless a becoming
attention and interest, whilst Madeline was
seemingly greatly delighted with all she saw
and heard. Everything she said was charming
; she admired the old ceilings, the spindle-legged
furniture, the melancholy time blackened
pictures along the walls of the desolate

and deserted rooms, the wide sweep of the
ancient staircase ; and as to the views from the
upper windows, she declared she had never
seen anything to be compared to them in any
house in which she had ever stayed.

After the tour of the house was over, Miss
Eyre begged her nephew to take ]Miss Abbott
round the gardens. Here Madeline aorain
expressed her approbation  the smooth lawns,
the formal terraces, the quaint devices on the
yew hedges, and the venerable old cedars, all
excited her warm admiration. She saw that
her praise pleased Val as well as his aunt, so
she was not sparing in giving it.

*'I shall never," she said to herself, "in all
probability, set foot in this stupid old-fashioned
house and garden again. I may as well be
amiable about it now I am here ; but catch
me ever coming; again ! "

'' Madeline is delighted with the garden ! "
said Val, brinmno; her in again through the
terrace windows.

"And now, my dear, come and have some
tea ; you must be quite tired out," said Miss
Eyre. She drew her gently into a low seat
and gave her some tea in a quaint old Worcester
cup.

It is, my love, a great happiness to me,
indeed, that you are so pleased with my dear
old house and garden," said Aunt Ann tremulously
; " it is a most unspeakable comfort tome
to think you like it  for now I know that

when I am dead and gone yon will value it
and love it for its own sake as well as for
mine."

Madeline gave just an imperceptible start 
her eye glanced up quickly and inquiringly
and met her lover's.

Miss Ann noticed the look and the expression
of puzzled inquiry in the beautiful face.

Val has not told you, my dear ?  then
your appreciation of Abingdon House has the
merit of being; disinterested, and is therefore
of additional value ; I have left it to my
nephew, Miss Abbott  so that some day it will
be your home ! "

Yal was standing up behind his aunt's chair,
smiling across at her over his aunt's whitehead.
The old lady must be dreaming,
romancing I What on earth could she mean ?
How could this gloomy, tumble-down old
place ever be a fitting home for her, for Madeline
Abbott, in her wealth and her beauty !
she thought she had better not commit herself
by answering rashly ; but she gave a
little incredulous smile ujD at Val's face. And
then Val spoke, smiling back serenely and
confidently.

I have promised my dear aunt, Madeline,
that when that sad, and, I hope, far distant,
day comes, you and I will live some part of
every year in Abingdon House. It shall,
in short, be our London house, when we want
to come up to town ; and dear, indeed, will the

old place be to us both," lie added, stooping
and pressing the thin, old hand that sought
his to his lips.

Just one little sickening pang of mistrust
struck for a moment into Madeline's breast 
just for a moment, for very dismay, she was
silent, and stirred her tea, with downcast eyes.
Then she recovered herself ; for, of course, Val
could not mean such a preposterous thing ; of
course he was only humouring the poor old
lady in her crazy fancies. She turned the subject
adroitly, and they conversed of other
things.

You did not, of course, mean what you
said about our ever living at that place, Val ? "
said Madeline to him, when they were driving
home.

Val looked at her in surprise.
'' Mean it ? Yes, of course, I do."
What, mean to live there !  at Hampstead
! " she cried, turning suddenly white.

Yes, why not ? we must come south for a
month or two ; and it is but an easy drive
from Hyde Park Corner, as you see  it will
be our London home."

It is impossible !" said Madeline, shortly.
Nothing would induce me to live there."

Val looked at her. Then, for the first time,
he saw her face  as others had seen it often 
but he never  dark and angry with a lowering
brow and a pouting lip.

*' You will do as I wish, I know Madeline,"

lie said, gravely, flicking the cobs lightly with
this whip. "I do not see anything impossible
in our livings at Abingdon House  for a short
time at least  the rest of the time we shall be
in "Westmoreland."

And nowhere else ? " she said, really frightened
this time. "1 could not live such a life.
Oh, Val ! I thought you loved me."

So I do ; I love you dearly," he said,
smiling, his face brightened at once ; " but my
love for you, great as it is, will never make
me break my word."

Then Madeline began to understand that intaking
a husband, she would also be taking a
master.

THE TEMPTRESS.

she afternoon sunshine came slanting
through the small-pane windows
of that same shabby old study at
Gravestone Edg;e, where Michael
Gale had put so many searching questions to
his younger nephew on the eventful spring
morning, which had in all probability changed
the fortunes of his life.

It was the only room in the house with
which the painters, and paperers, and upholsterers,
were not to meddle. From some vasue
and unexpressed feeling of regard for the old
miser, whose hoardings he had inherited. Yal
had desired that the old man's den should
remain untouched and unaltered. The shabby
table, the well-worn leathern arm-chair, the
threadbare carpet, and the dingy morton curtains,
were all left just as they had been on
the day that Michael Gale had left his much-loved

money behind him, and taken his departure
to that other world whither neither our
riches nor our poverty can follow us.

On either side of the fireplace, two deep
recesses were fitted up with cupboards, and
were filled with bundles of letters  hundreds
of old bills, and piles of legal looking documents
tied ujD in neat packets, with jink tape.
All this accumulated and heterogeneous mass
of papers lay in orderly rows, one on the top of
the other, from the floor to the ceiling, upon
the tiers of shelves ; and all were grimed over
with a uniform coating of thick grey dust,
which many years had rained down solely and
imperceptibly upon them. It was one of the
various small tasks which Val had set to his
cousin, that he should overhaul the contents
of these two cupboards and let him know of
what nature was the mass of manuscript which
there lay ; but it is needless to say that Oswald
had been hitherto too indolent to address himself
to the business.

To-day, however, the keys have been brought
forth, the cupboard doors are wide open, and
a heap of their contents lie in dusty packages
upon the floor ; gnd there, by the side of them,
upon the threadbare carpet, full in the light of
the sunshine, sits a small motionless figure 
still but active  silent but deeply engrossed ;
the head is bent ; the tiny hands rapidly unfasten
one package after another ; the keen eyes
fly rapidly over the faded written pages. A

faint crackling flutter of paper is heard occasionally
 but for this there is no sound or movement
in michael Gale's little study, which even
now one might easily fancy to be haunted by
the shrunken form, and the shrewd eager eyes of
its late master. No such apprehension disturbs
the practical mind of Fenella Snow  for it is
Ann Eyre's lost foundling who sits now alone
upon the floor of Michael Gale's little room.

Fenella's head, with its covering of soft,
flufly, fair hair is bent  her figure is motionless,
but her brain is actively at work. There is no
end to the fancies and the hopes which rise
before her mental vision  no rest in the fever
of passion which consumes her  the passion of
a blind and reasonless revenge.

There is no hatred, says an old proverb, so
deep as the love that has turned to hate, and
it is that kind of hatred, frantic and insatiable,
which possesses the soul of Fenella Snow.

There was a time when one man's name was
sweet as music in her ears  when his voice
had power to soften and to thrill her  when
his most careless glance could make her heart
beat ; the slightest touch of his hand set all
the pulses of her being on fire  that time
seemed now to her to be long  very long ago !

Once on a dusky evening, beneath the
shadowy gloom of the old cedar trees, faraway
in a southern garden, once Fenella
had offered up the love that had long burnt ina
fierce, lurid flame in her wild and untutored

VOL. II. G

heart, and oh, bitter shame  oh, unending remorse,
that love had been rejected !

Henceforth, all soft and lovely things had
died out of this woman's heart ; a wild storm
of rage and anger had swept over the garden
of her heart, and laid it waste as any barren
wilderness of rugged rock and unlovely weeds.
The man she had once loved she now hated
with a deadly hatred ; to ruin him, to disgrace
him, to bring low his name, to drag him
through the dust of misery and of humiliation,
was now the single aim and object of her
ambition.

It was for this that Fenella had cast away
the protecting love that had sheltered her life,
and had fled secretly away from her home with
little thought or care lor the breaking old
heart which she left desolate behind her. It
was to join forces with the man whom she
imagined to be Valentine Eyre s natural enemy
the cousin whom he had supplanted, and
who would naturally grasp eagerly at the
remotest chance of injuring his supplanter
which might present itself to him. And
Fenella believed that such a chance would,
through her agency, be placed before him. She
thought that there was a chink in the rich
man's armour, a weak spot in his position
which she had been clever enough to discover,
and which she was now bent upon making
known to his enemy.

One fine day, therefore, Fenella Snow arrived

at Cragstone Edge, and took up her abode ina
small upper chamber above the village shop,
which Oswald had secured for her use, and
from thence it was that she proceeded to
pursue her operations. Oswald, whose hopes
had been high concerning some wonderful
discovery, some flaw in his uncle's will, or
perhaps even some absolute forgery which his
mysterious correspondent might have to reveal
to him, was at first bitterly disappointed when
Miss Snow informed him in their first interview,
that her only desire was to search through
any old papers which the castle might contain,
without having apparently any definite
object or plan in view. By degrees, however,
Fenella unfolded to Oswald's eager ears the
causes of her suspicions. She had overheard
conversations, she attired, between Valentine
Eyre and his aunt, which made her positively
certain that Val was by no means secure in his
own position. There had been a reserve and
a caution, she told Oswald, in Yal's words to
his aunt ; and once, when she had desired him
to undertake the fulfilment of certain of her
desires after her death, which would entail a
considerable amount of expense. Miss Snow
positively averred that Mr Eyre had declined
to accept the responsibility, upon the ground
that he was not, or mig-ht not, at a future date
be so rich as he was popularly supposed to be.
I can give you no proofs'' added Fenella,
in referring to this conversation ; " but the

distinct impression which his remarks left upon
me, was that Mr Eyre was considerably uneasy
in his conscience, and he allowed his aunt
to perceive that his possession of his uncle's
inheritance was uncertain, and his footing in
the highest degree insecure. It was this that
made me decide to communicate with you, Mr
Power. I am quite convinced that there is
another will in existence somewhere, and that
Mr Eyre suspects that such is the case."

'' But you do not imagine that my cousin
is guilty of fraud, or of the suppression of any
document of importance ? " demanded Oswald,
who was a good deal taken aback by Miss
Snow's statement.

"No  not voluntarily; but either from
something your uncle said to him before he
died, or else by some collateral evidence bearing
upon the case, I am convinced that he
does fear, at all events, that he may have but
little claim upon Michael Gale's money. I do
not think he actually knows more than you or
I do ; but either he has some private letter of
instruction from your uncle, or else he strongly
suspects that the will under which he succeeds
is not altogether in order."

Oswald was a good deal impressed by all this.

You will, at all events, allow me to search
for a missing document of some kind ; for if
such a thing exists, it is here in this house
that it will certainly be found. I may search
for it, may I not ? "

** Certainly, you may search," assented Oswald
; and so it was that Fenella Snow came
to be daily seated upon the threadbare carpet
of Michael Gale's shabby little den. She
arrived usually immediately after breakfast.
She remained until lunch-time, when she
modestly retired, returning again at about
three o'clock in the afternoon to renew her
labours for two, and sometimes even for three
hours more.

And now there happened what to Fenella
was a very astonishing thing, although possibly
to the reader who is acquainted with Mr
Power's volatile and excitable temperament,
it may occasion no such surprise.

Oswald Power fell head over ears in love
with Miss Snow.

After all it was no wonder. There was a
scarcity of young and pretty women in the
parish of Cragstone, Westmoreland. The
farmer's daughter, for whose sake Madeline's
image had waxed faint and blurred, was an
unapproachable divinity  she made butter,
milked cows, and went to market with assiduity
; she was rarely available for loitering
by hedgerows or wanderings by moonlight ;
she was a practical young woman with a great
deal of business in her hands, and her mother
looked very sharply after her. It was not
even possible to gaze at her for any length of
time in any peace and comfort, excepting once
a week, during the hours of Divine service, ina

church two miles away. Oswald had been
getting very tired of those two miles of hot,
dusty road, and he was not particularly fond
of going to church at any time ; and at last,
even the bright eyes and the conscious giggle
of Miss Deborah Polling ceased to be worth
the infinite trouble which he had to undergo
in order to attain the doubtful felicity of
beholding them at a distance across a wide
perspective of rustic heads and backs.

Oswald was just beginning to consider Deborah
Polling a nuisance, when Fenella Snow
appeared upon the scene. Here was quite
another affair ! Fenella was a lady in manners
and in appearance. She was pretty, too ;
her fluffy head was infinitely captivating in
his eyes ; her tiny hands and feet, and her
small waist and neat figure seemed to him
absolutely charming. And then she was
clever  wonderfully, astonishingly clever  or
at least it appeared to him that she was  this
wonderful plan of hers, these extraordinary
suspicions and suppositions, and this indomitable
pluck and spirit which she had displayed,
all struck him as the emanations of
a master mind. To Oswald's somewhat dulled
Writs and slow understanding, Fenella's shrewdness
was the fire of actual genius.

By Jove, what a girl that is ! " he said to
himself after that first interview between them
had taken place. " What a clever woman !
She's on the right track, I'll be bound. She's

as sharp as a needle, I can see ! and what a
pretty face and a dear little figure she has,
too ! That's the kind of girl, after all, for a
man to get fond of. No more of your Juno's
for me. I'm g-oino in for sweet little kittens
of women for the future ! "

So he got into the habit of sitting in Michael
Gale's den, whilst Fenella pursued her daily
labours. Ostensibly he read the paper 
actually he stole side glances at the small
figure crouched upon the floor near his feet
thought to himself how white and dainty
were her hands, how graceful the curve of her
cheek and neck, how bewitching the glimpse
of the small-pointed shoe that peeped out from
beneath her skirt. Sometimes he would go
away and leave her for an hour or so, but he
always came back again attracted by the candle
glow in which he was destined to scorch his
wings.

One day he requested her to remain and
have lunch with him. Fenella, who beefan to
see how the wind lay, and that other excitements
besides ruining the man she had loved
might be possible in her life  demurred  and
finally declined to do so. The next day, however,
dien he pressed her to remain with
more eagerness than before, as she knew he
would do, she finally yielded to his entreaties.
After that she never went away in the middle
of the day, and the luncheon table was invariably
laid for two persons. Often, too, Fenella

now would leave her work, and come out for a
stroll upon the terrace, or take a turn down to
the lake with him. Not for that, however,
did she for one single minute relinquish the
burning desire of her life  nor allow Oswald
to lose sight of the object of her visit to him.
She, herself, was not in any danger of coming
to love him. She was one of those women
who are capable but of one real and great passion
in their lives. Fenella's love, Fenella's
hatred, Fenella's thirst for vengeance, were
all one and the same thing to her  the one
great sentiment of her being. To love Oswald
after having loved Valentine would have been
to have put up with the possession of a rushlight
after having entertained hopes of the sun.
The bare idea of such a thing made her laugh
out loud to herself. Often she leant out of her
little casement window, over the village shop,
late in the evening after her labours for the
day where ended, looking out over the quiet
scene  the still lake below, the purple hills all
dusky in the evening gloom beyond, the one
white sjoeck half way up the green shoulder of
a round - backed fell that represented Lady
Cornelia's now untenanted cottage, and wondered,
as she leant upon the window sill, over
the mystery and the perplexity of Oswald's
love, and of how she could turn it to the best
account for the furtherance of her own ends.
From here too she could see the pale outline
of the gloomy castle, with its dungeon-like

tower, and the glimmer of Oswald's lamp as he
sat smoking his last pipe, shining star-like
through the gloom, and she would laugh to
herself as she thought of how completely day
by day he was becoming hers, to take or to
leave as it might suit her best. One day,
when Oswald happened to be out riding, she
lighted all at once upon a folded-up sheet of
foolscap paper which, when she opened it, set
her heart beating wildly, and all her pulses
tinolinor with excitement ; she said no word
of her discovery, but on the next day, she
gave up hunting through the dusky papers in
the cupboard, and asked Oswald for a pen and
ink.

I have an idea ! " she said ; "I am going
to make a sortie into the enemy's camp ! "

What are you going; to do ? "

I am goings to write a letter  I shall tell
you nothing more. Read your paper, Mr
Power, and don't look at me."

*' How can I help looking at you ! " said
Oswald, sentimentally.

It suited Fenella to smile and look pleased.
Oswald put forth his hand and touched her
lingers caressingly. His love-making was
always of a slow and indolent nature. Fenella
was well pleased that it should be so ; it gave
her time to make up her mind and to see how
things were o;oinor to turn out. She withdrew
her lingers gently and began to write.

Her letter was to Mr Malsham. When she

had finished it, she addressed and sealed the
envelope ; many a time in bygone days had
she seen Miss Eyre's notes to her nephew,
directed to the solicitor's chambers ; it was an
address she was never likely to forget.

Til en she told Oswald to go by train to a
market-town little known out of the " north
countrey," some ten miles away, and there to
post it.

Mondays later, she sent him off to the same
town to inquire at the post office for an
answer to the letter she had despatched.

Now she sits upon the floor silent, but
deeply engrossed as usual ; she is still searching
for something more, and she is awaiting impatiently
for Oswald's return. Now and then
she glances up at the old-fashioned clock upon
the mantelpiece. Oswald is late ; he should
have been here half-an-hour ago ; what can
delay him ?

A sickening sensation creeps over her as
the thought flashes into her mind that some
harm may have befallen him. Supposing that
there had been a railway accident, or supposing
that, during; the six miles of mountain and
moorland drive from the little station of Crag-stone
Road, any evil chance should have overtaken
the dog-cart. A picture of Oswald lying
cold and stark by the roadside, flashes with
lightning rapidity through her active brain ; it
is from no love of Mm that she turns faint at
the very thought  from no affection for him

that the vision of a still, stiff corpse makes
her shudder and turn pale  what cares she for
Oswald Power and his fate ? It is for herself
that Fenella thinks ; wdiat would become of
her  of her plans, and her schemes, and her
day dreams ? A shadow crosses the window ;
Fenella springs to her feet ; away, oh, ye evil
visions of despair 1 With a glad exclamation,
she flies to the door and meets him on the
threshold.

Oh ! how glad I am to see you ! How late
you are ! I thought you were never coming-back
! " she cries.

'' You are glad to see me ! " he says, joyfully,

taking; her outstretched hands and holdings



them tightly in his. ' Are you glad  really

and truly ? Say that again ; it is the first

pleasant thing I have heard to-day ! "

Yes  yes, of course I am glad ! " she
answers impatiently ; " where is my letter ?
Have you got one for me ? and what on earth
has made you so late ? "

How like a woman you are ! What a
number of questions you ask me on the top
of another. Fenella, how pretty you look
when you are eager."

Is there a letter ? " she repeats.

At this moment Oswald and his compliments
are a perfect nuisance to her.

All in good time. And to begin with, I
am late, because I went round by the post office
in the village to get my own letters. Why,

you look as if you were going to devour me !
Well, here is your precious letter, young lady."

Fenella sank down into a small heap upon
the floor, grasping the business-like blue envelope
in both hands. She had a graceful
fashion of subsiding thus ; being so small and
elf like in figure, she would sink upon the
ground like a Huff of swan's-down in the most
noiseless and ethereal manner.

Oswald watched her with delighted admiration.
Fenella became absorbed in her letter.

'' To A. W.," these were the initials she had
adopted, being the final letters of her name.
Mr Malsham has received your communication.
If you have, as you intimate, any important
revelation to make concerning the
will or wills of the late Michael Gale of Crag-stone
Tower, in the county of Westmoreland,
he will be happy to hear it, and will treat the
subject with absolute confidence and secrecy.
With regard to your question, it is quite true
that the late Michael Gale did leave a document
in addition to his will, which Mr Malsham
delivered into the keeping of his heir,
Mr Eyre, the contents of which are absolutely
unknown to Mr Malsham."

Hurrah, hurrah ! " cried Fenella, springing
to her feet as lightly as she had sunk to the
ground, ** success attends us already ! Old
Malsham, the sinner, is willing to treat ! There
was a private letter, as I told you, and that
letter is a codicil to the will ! ''

How can you tell," said Oswald doubtfully,
and yet lie took the solicitor's letter and read
it eagerly. It struck him as very remarkable
that Mr Malsham should have answered an
anonymous letter in such a fashion. He little
knew the storm of disappointment and spite
which was raging at that moment in that
elderly gentleman's bosom.

You know you have nothing to go upon,
Fenella ; " he had taken to callings her Fenella
of late. " You say there is another will or a
codicil or something ; but have you one single
proof to bring forward in support of your
theory ? "

Fenella smiled.

What will you give me if I tell you a
secret ? " she said mysteriously. She held her
head with its soft, silken aureola a little to
one side ; she had perched herself upon the
arm of Michael Gale's heavy oaken chair ; one
small foot dangled to and fro below the edo;e
of her skirt ; one hand rested upon the cushion
behind her ; the other she stretched out with
a playful gesture towards him.

What will you give me ? " she repeated.

Ten thousand kisses ! " cried Oswald
passionately, catching the tiny figure to his
heart, and suiting the action very literally to
the word.

Fenella took it very quietly.

What a donkey you are," she said, pushing
him gently back. " I am about to tell you

of a discovery  and you behave like a
baby."

A discovery, Fenella ? " he looked eager
enough now. She nodded.

'* I found something some days ago. I
would not tell you before ; it is something
very important."
Another will % "

No, but the draft of a codicil, dated later
than your uncle's will."

The draft ? What is the use of a draft ? "
"Mr Malsham acknowledges to me that
your cousin has a private letter in his possession
; that letter I believe to be the codicil
itself ; this draft is of a very different nature
to the will under which your cousin inherits
your uncle's property  here it is."

She drew forth a long blue envelope from
her pocket and placed it in his hand ; he grasped
it greedily, and ran his eyes wildly over the
page. His hand shook ; he turned deadly
pale ; he was absolutely incapable of reading
it.

I cannot see  explain it  what does it
say % " he stammered.

The long and short of it is, that if Mr Eyre
marries, he loses the whole of your late uncle's
property, which, then, is to go entirely, absolutely,
to you ; it is the draft of a codicil to
his will  a codicil which alters everything. Do
you understand ? "

But  of what use is it ? You say it is only

a draft. I can see that is merely a rough sketch,
as it were ; it is neither signed nor witnessed.
Of what good is it ? Do you really think it
possible that Valentine possesses the actual
codicil, of which this is the rough copy ? "

It remains to be seen. It is my firm
belief that he does possess it  if he has not
destroyed it."

And if he has ? "

If he has, tt'c have this ! " replied Fenella,
with a careless shrug of the shoulders.

But it is neither signed nor witnessed," he
repeated ; " of what legal value is it as it is ? "

None whatever," she answered, and then
suddenly she lowered her voice. "But we
can make it of value," she said in a whisper.

What  what do you mean ? Do you mean
me to forge, Fenella ? "

He recoiled from her with a gesture of
dismay.

Hush ! don't use ugly words ; don't be a
coward, and trust everything to me."

Bells FORLORN HOPE.

HE doc iii tient which Fenella had
found amongst the accumulation
of papers in the cupboards at
Crags tone Edge, was actually and
truly what she took it to be  the rough draft
of a codicil which the miser had drawn out
himself a few days after the signing of his will.
It consisted but of a few lines, which, in spite
of a few erasures and corrections, very clearly
and distinctly set forth the intentions of the
writer ; it was dated, but neither signed nor
witnessed, spaces being left for the signatures
at the bottom of the page.

It may be as well at once to state what had
been Michael Gale's intentions with regard to
this codicil. There was then working in his
mind some plan by which he could circumvent
his heir in the dim future, after he himself

was dead and gone ; should Valentine ever
perpetrate that direst folly of which he considered
a reasonable man could be guilty  the
folly of marriage. He wanted to do two
things ; to punish the elder nephew for his
extravagant life, vrith a relentless and crushing
cruelty, by leaving his wealth absolutely and
unconditionally to the younger one, and yet,
still to retain some secret power over the life
and fortunes of the latter. This combination
was a difficult matter to carry out. He had
brooded over it long and anxiously, confiding
his perplexity to nobody. He clung to the
notion of having; a voice still, Ion 2* after he was
dead, in the disposition of his beloved money ;
he wanted to stretch forth a hand out of the
silence of his grave, still to order and direct
the life and actions of his heir. It is a mania
that, often in his later years, takes a stronghold
of the miser, who has made his gold his
god ; a mania for providing by law for the
utmost possibilities that may befall to the
beloved wealth that he is constrained at last
to relinquish and leave behind him. Michael
Gale had wanted to leave everything to
Valentine Eyre ; that is to say, if Valentine
would consent to live as he wanted him to
live  if he did not choose to do so, then he desired
to give Oswald yet another chance ; he had
pondered over how he was to do this thing long
and deeply ; and many alternatives suggested
themselves to him. Amongst them, the idea

VOL. II. H

of a codicil to be left secretly to the care of his
executors was, perhaps, the most natural idea
that had occurred to him. Hence, it came
that the old man had actually drawn up the
document which Fenella had so unexpectedly
lighted upon, but he had thought better of
it, and had changed his mind ; to begin with,
he was too angry with Oswald in the matter
of the four-in-hand, to be willing at any time
that he should have even a remote chance
of inheriting his whole fortune ; and, in the
second place, he desired to give Valentine the
full opportunity of complying with his wishes.
Finally, as we have seen, he abandoned the
idea of a legal document, and with a rare
insight into the upright and conscientious
character of his younger nephew, determined
to throw himself entirely upon his honour
and probity, and wrote to him that singular
and powerful letter of conditional injunctions
by which Val had been as profoundly
impressed as the old man desired that he
should be.

But the draft of the codicil, tossed away at
the back of the study cupboard, long lay there
unheeded and forgotten, and was destined to
cause complications of which the old miser had
had no conception.

When the anonymous letter which Fenella
had worded with a great amount of cunning,
reached our friend Mr Malsham, that gentleman
was smarting under what he considered

to be a deep and grievous injury. He had just
received a letter from his client, Mr Eyre,
informing him of his intended marriage with
Miss Abbott. Mr Malsham turned white with
rage and disappointment.

Ungrateful hound ! " he exclaimed aloud
in his fury. " After all I have done for him ;
after the way in which he has been received
at my house, and all the kindnesses with which
lie has been loaded by my family."

Val's letter had been received by Mr Malsham
at Kensington Garden Square, and it
was in the seclusion of his conjugal chamber
whilst he and his wife were going through the
daily rites and ceremonies of their toilet, that
he uttered the above indignant remark. His
morning letters had been placed upon the
table in his dressing-room, and he came stalking
into his wife's bedroom with the terrible
news, fulminating wrath as he came. You
may be sure that Mrs Malsham was not backward
in playing chorus to her lord.

Oh ! of all the horrid, ungrateful vipers! "
she cried wildly. " Oh, Eichard, my poor
darling Bella! what will she do ? "

'' She'll have to o-rin and bear it ! "

o

And after that dinner and the sorry too,
who would have believed he would have been
such a traitor ; and he has seemed so attentive
to Bella, too, saying all sorts of sweet things to
her ; but he shan't get off so easy  that he
shan't, the wretch ! " added the lady fiercely,

dashing her hair brush wildly through her
sparse grey locks.

'don't talk nonsense, my dear ; he's a base
young blackguard, that's what he is. I told
5'ou the other day I heard a rumour of it 
only you and Bella wouldn't believe it, but as
to doing anything now to prevent it, that's all
nonsense  there's nothing to be done ! "

Oh, I'm not so sure of that, Eichard.
You don't know what I do. There I found
him hugging her up in his arms on the sofa
the other day."

What I'' thundered the solicitor, turning
short round in his return voyage to his
dressing-room.

You needn't shout so  it's quite true ;
when we were at my young gentleman's
rooms the other day, I came in and found
them so. I had been out to a shop for a
minute, and when I came back, there they
were on the sofa, her head on his shoulder 
and the valet came in too and saw it."

Good gracious, Isabella, you don't say
so ! "

"Yes, it's my belief that artful hussy,
Madeline Abbott, has just taken the poor young
fellow in with her wiles, so that he couldn't
help himself ; but that his heart, Eichard  his
heart is with our poor, dear deserted darling."

Bother his heart," said Mr Malsham.
What we've got to see to is whether we
can make out a case."

Breach of promise ! " said the lady, jumping
at once to the thought in her spouse's
mind. " Of course that's what I'm thinking
about  we mio;ht oft damno-es, at all events.
Meanwhile, I shall have to break it to poor
Bella ; she shall carry off those two chair-backs
that didn't fit, this very day, to Charges
Street  dio knows that her devotion and
distress may not touch his selfish heart,"

It was on arriving at his chambers on the
same morning that followed this conversation,
that Mr Mais bam found there the anonymous
letter that produced so strong an effect upon
him. Now, there is a beautiful theory in the
British mind concerning anonymous letters.
A theory to this effect  that this style of
communication being cowardly and despicable,
like the assassin's knife that strikes in the
back, or like the blow of a hidden foe that
shelters himself under the cover of night and
flies away ; an anonymous letter should, by
every noble and generous soul, be treated
with the scorn and hatred which it richly deserves
 it should be flung instantly into the
hottest flames of the nearest fire, and be
simultaneously ejected from the mind and
memory, as though it had never been written,
and that the recipient of that foul and evil
communication should go his way with a
shudder of india-nation, and remember it no
more.

Now, does it always happen that this theory

is actually carried out in real life ? When an
anonymous letter lies like a vile, crawling
reptile upon a man's table as lie prepares to
begin his morning's work, does he always so
cast out that hateful thing, not only in the
letter, but in the spirit, as the code of honour
of an upright and manly Englishman enjoins
upon him to do ? I do not think he does.

He probably reads over more than once
the poison-instilling words that strike a sickening
shock of horror into his soul. He cannot
tear his eyes from the fatal page  that base
accusation against the honour of his dearest
friend  that unholy suggestion concerning
the deeds of his favourite son, or that insinuation
blacker still against the wife of
his bosom.

Inquire for yourself and see. Go to such
and such a place and find out," says the writer,
dio, with bitterest satire, signs himself mostly
as " your friend."

The words burn themselves into his very
soul. At last, probably he starts up, remembers
what he had always been told that an
Englishman should do in such a case, and
flings the noisome creature into the flames.

But does he forget it ? No ; it is not inhuman
nature that he should do so. However
false, however slanderous he knows the
imputation to have been, there will still remain
for many days, deep down in his mind,
the bitter dregs of the cup that he has been

forced to swallow ; the horrible shadow of
suspicion will linger still in the depths of his
secret soul.

Now, if a man feels all this when the letter
which he has read suggests only cruel and
evil things which are to his own hurt, is it
to be wondered at that he should neglect to
act strictly up to the beautiful theory of which I
have spoken, when the matter suggested to him
fits in nearly to his own state of mind, when
it comes as a soothing possibility of redress
for a fancied wrong, of retaliation for a supposed
insult or injustice.

The anonymous letter which Mr Malsham
received that morning came to him in the
form of a temptation for which Satan had
carefully prepared his soul beforehand. He
destroyed it, it is true, in strict conformity
with " the code," but not before he had read
it a great many times over, and had, moreover,
desired his clerk James Wright, whom
he always considered in the light of a brainless
and reasonless writing-machine, to make
a careful copy of it. And after that he
deliberated for thirty six hours, dallying with
temptation, and then he answered it.

A whole world of possibilities was opened
out suddenly before Mr Malsham's mind. He
had always wondered what had been the contents
of that private letter which he had given
to Valentine Eyre after his uncle's death.
Often in subsequent conversations he had

'pumped" him cautiously and judiciously
upon the subject, but had never been able to
extract any information from him concerning
it. He had frequently turned over in his
mind what that letter could possibly have
contained, but had never been able to arrive
at any conclusion concerning it. Now hereat
once was a solution to the mystery. The,
letter, as suggested by his unknown correspondent,
was a codicil, informally drawn up,
no doubt (as he himself had had nothing
to do with it), but in all probability legally
signed and attested ; and of this codicil a
rough copy had been discovered. What were
its contents ? They were not surely advantageous
to Mr Gale's heir, else why had he
maintained such silence and secrecy about
it ? Mr Malsham, of course, guessed at once
that Oswald Power, who he knew to be at
the house in Westmoreland, was in some way
connected with the mysterious document that
had been found. In all probability the codicil,
if codicil there was, would be in Oswald Power's
favour.

Mr Malsham was not indisposed to throw
himself into the scale of the ousted nephew
if there should be anything of a lawsuit
between the cousins. It was probable, however,
that Valentine had destroyed the document
which he possessed, in which case there
would be only collateral evidence to go upon.

Mr Malsham thought over all these thugs

for many clays, and after one or more letters
had passed between himself and his unknown
correspondent, he finally flung aside all concealment,
and wrote boldly to Oswald Power
at Cran-stone Edo;e, and told him that if he
was prepared to contest his cousin's position
on the ground of the j'per he had seemingly
discovered, he (Mr Malsham) would throw up
Mr Eyre's affairs, and be ready to take up
his case, and advance the necessary money
in order to open proceedings.

Meanwhile he was preparing Mr Eyre's
marriage settlement, according to that gentleman's
directions. These settlements were, in
his opinion, of the most meagre description,
and roused in his mind a feelings of thorough
contempt for his client. That a man with
thirty thousand a-year should scuttle only
thirty thousand pounds upon bis wife, seemed
to him to be inconceivable and utterly incomprehensible,
save indeed under the supposition
that was strongly gaining ground in
his mind that he had no rig-ht to more, and
feared to court discovery and ruin by naming
a larger sumo



Bella hasn't lost much," he said, in confidence,
to the partner of his joys. " Of all the
beggarly settlements, for a man of his wealth,
which I ever drew up, these are the meanest."

I suppose Colonel Abbott has nothing
to put down," suggested his spouse.

Not a sixpence ! Gambling debts are

about his only stock-in-trade, I fancy. Poor
as a church mouse, and means to live on his
son-in-law probably''

That accounts for Valentine Eyre's being
so stingy ; 'isn't for nothing that he is old
Gale's blood relation  they are a mean lot all
of them ! " And Mrs Malsham shook out her
skirts indignantly. " However, he may find
us one too many for him ! I only wish I
could put a little spirit into Bella."

*' Where is the girl ? "

Gone off in a hansom to Clarges Street
with the chair-backs."

You don't say so ? Well, but that is very
spirited of her, I consider."

Oh, not in the frame of mind in which
she has started. I doubt if she will not do
more harm than good as she is gone now. Her
eyes swelled up like boiled gooseberries, and
her nose as red as a reddish. I wanted to go
with her and help her to stand up for herself
a bit, but she wouldn't hear of it. She said
she would go alone, or not at all ; she will dono
good with whimpering and whining."

Certainly not ; it is a most impolitic step
you should not have allowed her to go ;
however, we will give him this one chance,
and if my young gentleman doesn't take it 
why, then  "

Then what ?  breach of promise ? "

No  I've a better notion than that ! " replied
her husband, mysteriously winking an

eye slowly at her ; but meanwhile, Mrs M.,
you can make it deuced unpleasant to him if
you like."

I am sure I should be only too glad  the
heartless brute."

'' You can mention about his atrocious behaviour
to Bella to most of your friends 
about his marked attentions  kissing, and so
forth  all leading to nothing  it might get to
Miss Abbott's ears, and spoil his market there."

Trust me to do him an injury if I can
the serpent ! " hissed forth Mrs Malsham,
virulently.

Meanwhile, Bella was alighting; at Valentine's
door in Clarges Street.

She was, as her mother had said, disfigured
by long and bitter weeping. Bella believed,
with some truth, that it was all over for her,
and she was not disposed to veil her wrongs
under a dignified silence. For the last time
she had come to make a struggle for the man
who was slipping from her grasp ; and in her
hand she bore that propitiatory offering of
the chair-backs, in which she seemed to repose
such profound confidence ; and she had
not come without a distinct purpose in her
mind.

*' Is Mr Eyre at home ? " she demanded of
that valet, whose eyes had witnessed the
tender attitude m which she had on a former
occasion been discovered upon his master's
shoulder.

Mr Eyre was at home ; and Miss Malsham
walked upstairs. Val, however, was not alone,
a sandy-haired young gentleman, with a turnup
nose, sat by the fireplace. The valet
opened the door and announced, mysteriously,
that a lady wished to see his master.

Val coloured  only Madeline surely could
come in so unceremonious a fashion. He
glanced at Mr Wright.

'' I can go," said Jim Wright, rising to his
feet ; " another time wall do as well, or I can
wait outside in the street."

I couldn't think of such a thing;, Wright.
Would you mind waiting in my bedroom fora
few minutes ? "

Val raised the portiere curtain, and
Mr Wright passed into the adjoining room.
And the servant ushered in Miss Malsham.


Miss Malsham ! " Val certainly was
never more surprised in his life  his surprise
indeed was so much greater than his
pleasure, that he had a difficulty in greeting
the lady with his customary good manners.

Won't you sit down," he stammered
forth ; "is there anything that I can do for
you ? "

Bella sat down, and gazed at him in a
silence that was almost tragic.

"Is it true ? " she said at last, in a hollow
whisper.

Is wdiat true ? " Val said, sharply.

That you are engaged to be married to
Madeline Abbott ? "

Certainly I am  and what then ? You
have no objection, I suppose ?"

He laughed as he asked the question, but
his laugh was of a dangerous character.

"Oh, Valentine!" Val was startled 
Bella laid her head on the table, and burst
into tears. "Oh, you don't know what you
are doing ; what misery you are laying up for
yourself ; you are deceived  utterly deceived
in her  everybody knows it but you  and 
and  you reject the heart  the fond heart 
which  which is  b  b  breaking ! "

A tempest of sobs choked her further
utterances  dying away into a wail  then
followed an ominous silence, broken at last bv
Val's voice, hard and metallic, and full of
angry scorn.

"I do not understand you, Miss Malsham ;
if you have anything to say, say it. Explain
what you mean  v;liat is the misery that I am
laying up for myself ?  in whom am I deceived,
pray ?  what is it that everybody
knows but myself ? "

She looked up at him, angry and defiant 
her tears could not touch him ; her half
confession of affection had not elicited one
sign of tenderness or of compunction. Bella
was not capable of plots or of intrigues ; she
had no genius like Fenella for deep-laid
schemes of revenge ; but she knew how to be

spiteful  most women have brains enough for
that. She could not perhaps prevent him
from marrying another woman, but she could
manage perhaps to instil a drop of poison into
his happiness.

Oh, I don't know why I have taken the
trouble to come and warn you," she said ;
'' one doesn't get much thanks certainly ;
only I had enough interest in you to think
I should be doing right in letting you know
you are deceived in Madeline Abbott 
she has schemed for you as she schemed for
your cousin, when he was supposed to be rich.
She does not love you  it is your money she
wants."

Bella looked straight up at him ; but, as
sbe looked, fear came ujDon her. Never had
she seen a face so white and angry. He made
a half step towards her, then checked himself
suddenly

I wish you were a man that I might
knock you down ! " he said, in a voice of concentrated
passion. " Foul, groundless  lies,
and wicked accusations of the kind you have
uttered, should be answered not with words,
but with blows. Leave my room, and leave
this house, Miss Malsham, and quickly, lest I
be tempted to forget your sex, and treat your
hateful and scandalous words as they deserve."

Then suddenly Bella fell at his feet, weeping
and wailing and wringing her hands.

Oh, don't be so angry  I cannot, indeed.

I cannot bear it  T did not mean to say it.
I am sorry now if it has hurt you. I came
because I was so very unhappy  and  and 
to bring you the other chair-backs ; and do 
do forgive me."

The climax of this weeping and despairing
entreaty bordered upon the comic. Val, in
spite of his righteous anger and indignation,
could hardly help laughing. Bella kneeling
before him, holding up her anti-macassar in
both hands, with the tears raining down her
face, her bonnet awry, and her hair all dishevelled,
presented a truly ludicrous appearance.

"Pray get up, Miss Malsham ; it is really
most unbecoming of you to be on your knees
in this way. I will forgive you for saying
such unkind and untrue things about Miss
Abbott if you are sorry, and will never repeat
them again  and you are very good about the
chair-backs  "

Poor Val really did not know what next to
say, and was anxious to be at peace if possible.

Bella rose slowly from her lowly attitude ;
she adjusted her bonnet, re-buttoned her
gloves, laid the chair-backs on the table, then
she said, slowly, 

You are determined, then, upon marrying
Miss Abbott ? "

'' Most certainly, " he replied, looking
haughty and angry once more. " Kindly
avoid mentioning Miss Abbott's name for the
future."

It is a great pity," said Bella slowly.

I am probably the best judge of that," he
answered defiantly, holding the door open for
her.

Bella had dried her tears by this time.

Take care of yourself, Mr Eyre," she said,
significantly ; " you have a great many
enemies, and had you thought it worth while
to make a friend of me I would have stood by
jo\i and saved you."

'' I am much obliged to you, Miss Malsham ;
but I am really not afraid of anybody,"
answered Yal, coldly.

You will be sorry one of these days," said
Bella, making him a sweeping curtsey as she
went out, " When you find that my father
goes over to the side  which I shall take good
care that he does ! " and then the door closed
behind her.

The crack of a nut was heard as the young
lady's skirts rustled away down the staircase.

'' The cat is out of the bag, at all events,"
said Mr Wright, as he came out of his hiding
place. " I hope you will forgive me for
listening, Mr Eyre ; but when I heard you
cutter Miss Malsham's name I took the liberty
of standing just inside the curtains."

I can't think what the woman wanted ! "
said Val angrily.

She wanted first to cajole you, and then
threaten you. There is a plot against you
between her father and your cousin  it is as

dear as a pikestaff. If you would marry Miss
Malsham, her father would drop it ; if you
won't, he will take up Mr Power's case, whatever
it is."

" But the anonymous letter, Yy'right ! "

Ah ! there I am puzzled. I must go upto
Cragstone Edge, sir. I have sent in my
resignation to Mr Malsham  so now let us
see in what way I can be of use to you."

Meanwhile, Bella was driving city wards to
her father's office, with rage and mortification
in her heart. She had humbled herself before
Valentine Eyre ; she had owned to a tender
interest in him. She had traduced his 
had knelt at his very feet  all
in vain ! And, moreover, she had wasted all
those chair-backs !

"I might just as well have thrown them
into the gutter for all the good they have
done me," she said to herself; "but now we
will see what papa can do  he shan't get off
free if I can help it ! "

VOL, 11.

THE DEAF AND DUMB GENTLEMAN.

Y dear Oswald, I am writing to
tell you that I am going to be
married. My wedding-day is
not yet fixed, but I hope to
be turned off some time in the beginning of
August. Can you come down for the event
=  if only for the day ? I hope you will hurry
on all the work at the Tower as much as
possible. The workmen must positively be
out of the house by the end of August, as
I shall want to bring my wife up to Cragstone
in September. By the way, I think you are
slightly acquainted with her  her name is
Miss Madeline Abbott. If you remember
her, you will no doubt acknowledge that I ama
very lucky fellow !

' By the way, Madeline's morning-room is
to be altered. I wished it done in pale greensand
blues. As this is rather a difficult combination,

I am sending up a man who is said to
have a most wonderful good eye for the harmony
of colouring. I wish him to superintend
the decorations of this room entirely. He is
an artist in reduced circumstances. He had a
frightful illness of the brain some years ago,
which has left behind it a terrible affliction  
he is absolutely deaf and dumb. Put him up
in the house, and look after him properly ; he
talks on his finders  but I find conversation
by waiting to be less trouble.  Yours always,

Valentine Eyre'*

This was the letter which Fenella Snow had
already read three times over, and which now
lay open upon her lap as she sat curled up on
the wide, old-fashioned window seat in michael
Gale's study. She was not reading it now,
although she grasped it tight in both hands ;
her eyes had strayed away across to the low
hills that lay across the narrow silvery streak
of Cragstone mere. The sky was cloudy and
dull, the moors where dark and frowning ; and
Fenella's eyes had rested upon them without
seeing them, where dark and lowering too.

Val was going to be married ! The man
whom she had loved in her wild, lawless way ;
for whose sake she might perchance have become
soft and womanly and tender, was about
to give himself to another woman ; lie who
had scorned and rejected her, was at this very
moment exulting in his happiness with the

bride he had chosen. Oh, bitter and hopeless
thought ' A blind rage  a wild hatred surged
at her heart. What could she do to repay
him ? In what manner should the vengeance
which she meditated descend with most force
upon him !

" Well, what do you think of it ? " asked
Oswald, who sat opposite her watching her.

Fenella roused herself with a start.

He says you know her  this Mi.<s Abbott.
What do you know of her ? ''

\A'ell/' with a laugh, "I ought to know
her pretty well, seeing that she was once very
nearly marrying me ; but when my uncle died
she altered her mind and threw me over."

She did this ? " cried Fenella, springing
up excitedly ; "she threw you over ? "

Undoubtedly she did," assented Oswald.
You don't mind, do you, Fenella ? You are
not jealous. I don't care a hang for her now,
you know."

Mind ! What does it signify to me who
you cared for ? " she cried impatiently. " Can
you prove this in any way  prove that she
threw you over ? "

I have her very own handwriting  the
note she wrote to me. 1 have always kept it.
I don't quite knew why ; it was the last scrap
of her handwriting I had. It was a stupid
piece of sentimentality I think, for now that I
know you 1 know that I never really loved
before."

*' Oh, never mind me ! Give me the note.
You have it there in your pocket-book. Give
it me quickly."

"The odd thing is that I showed it to Valentine
Eyre the very day I received it. I did
not, of course, tell him her name, but it seems
funny he should never have guessed it."

'' There is no signature ! " said Fen ell a, in a
disappointed tone. She held the scrap of paper
with trembling hands and scrutinised it eagerly;
then suddenly she turned round upon him,

'' What is she like, this woman ? Describe
her to me,"

Oh, she is very handsome, tall and dark,
and imperious looking. She was considered
a beauty, but, you know, I don't care for that
style of women now. I admire small women
now, with  "

Bah ! don't I tell you I don't care a
farthing what you admire, or who you ever
liked. Tell me more of Madeline Abbott."

What makes you so anxious to know
about her f Stay ! I have a photograph of
her somewhere. I had it here dien I first
came. I don't know what has become of it
now. Shall 1 go and look for it ? "

Fenella sat still, and waited for him. After
what seemed to her an interminable interval,
he returned, and placed Madeline's photograph
in her hands. She gazed at it long
and earnestly. The beautiful face looked
back at her from the dim, fading paper ;

the eyes looked bright and happy ; the lips
were curved into a smile. If she could dim
those eyes with tears ; if she could hollow
those rounded cheeks, and draw lines about
that smiling mouth, Fenella thought within
herself that she would not have lived in vain.

I will break her heart ! " she said to herself
; but she did not know that she had set
herself a task that was impossible for Madeline
had no heart to be broken.

She turned the photograph over. At the
back of it was written', '' To 0. P.  from
Madeline." She compared the words with
the note she still held in her hand. The
writing was identical.

Here is one proof," she said, with a sudden
flush of colour. '' I think the two sent together
would be about conclusive."

'' You would send these to Valentine ? "

Not now," she answered, with a smile,
That would stop his marriage. You do not
want to do that, do you, Oswald ? If your
cousin marries this  this lady, will he not
have to produce that hidden paper he has
hitherto concealed so carefully ? and of which
our discovery is the rough copy. In that
case you will be the rich man, and he will be
ruined."

'' In that casCj I do not believe he would
ever marry, or if he has such a deed, he has
destroyed it long ago."

*' You are quite right, I think he has

destroyed it. wye must wait and see. If he
can produce his letter, it is because it is of
no importance. If he has destroyed it, vc
shall know what it must have contained. In
that case, the deed that I have discovered
comes into operation."

'' But it is valueless, unsigned and unwitnessed
! " cried Oswald. 'you are a puzzle
to me, Fenella."

'rand you are very dense, Mr Power"'
retorted the lady.

Oswald had still but a vague idea of what she
meant to do. Fenella knew perfectly forgery is
a great risk. She had no intention of laying
herself open to such a charge, if it could be
avoided. If Val owned to the possession of
Uncle Gale's private letter, and could be made
to produce it, Fenella, nothing doubting what
its contents would be, was not minded to push
matters to extremities. But should Val deny
the existence of the papers which Mr Malsham
had given him after his uncle's death ; should
he declare it to have been unimportant, and
that he had in consequence destroyed it, then
Fenella intended to produce the codicil which
she had discovered, signed and witnessed.
Once placed in Mr Malsham's hands, she felt
sure that from some private grudge against his
client, the solicitor would be only too ready
to fight for the very strong case which Oswald
would then be able to get up.

And now a fresh scheme had sprung up in

her active mind. She would let him marry ;
the thing should be allowed to rest till then.
In this way she would bring a double ruin
and a double misery upon him. She would
strike not only at him but at the wife, whom
he would drag down with himself into the
whirl jjool of his destruction. She smiled at
Oswald Power, who was waiting anxiously for
her next words ; for to Oswald she had become
an oracle. He believed in her, and looked upto
her, with a blind and childlike faith ; and
he was, into the bargain, head over ears in
love with her,

We will send those little specimens of
handwriting to Valentine Eyre on the day
after his wedding," she said, laughingly.

' By Jove, Fenella, you are a clever woman
! " he exclaimed admiringly ; "if only
you would be my wife."

I am net prepared to give you an answer
to that question yet ; do not renew it until I
give you leave," she answered, with an imperious
gesture of her tiny hand. ' In a day
or two I will tell you what I have decided,"

The following day there arrived at Crag-stone
Tower the artist in reduced circumstances,
who was so sorely afflicted with deafness
and with dumbness. Truth to say, neither
Fenella nor Oswald had given mui::h thought
to the advent of this gentleman, A great
many workmen of a superior character 
partners in the London firms, foremen with

opinions and tastes of their own, and landscape
gardeners, entrusted with discretionary
powers, had come down to the old house since
Oswald had been in occupation of it. It had
not occurred to him to imagine that this particular
man was in any way different to others
who had come and gone.

The new arrival appeared in a fly from the
station, about one o'clock in the day, and was
ushered in to the little study where Oswald
and Fenella were just sitting down together
to their tete-astute luncheon. They were somewhat
taken aback when a small, sandy-haired
man, with a sharp nose, thus suddenly intruded
upon them, made a profound bow
uttered an inarticulate sound in his throat,
cracked something sharply between his teeth,
after which he drew a chair to the table, and
made signs that he \va3 hungry, and desired
to be fed.

They were hardly as much taken aback,
however, as was James Wright when he found
a lady in Oswald Power's private room.

'this is intolerable I" cried Oswald aloud.

Fenella furtively placed her finger on her lip.

Why, if the fellow is deaf and dumb, one
can say what one likes, I suppose. Are you
deaf and dumb, sir ? "

The new-comer fixed his eyes blankly upon
his plate, and made no sign. Presently, however,
he drew a quire of writing paper out of
his pocket, and scribbled with a pencil, 

"My name is AVhite ; I have come to look
after the decorations of the morning-room.
Kindly give me some lunch, and take me to the
workmen who are engaged on the room, that 1
may begin my work."

He pushed this across the table to Oswald.

Oswald said, 

All right," and helped him to a mutton
chop.

Then he talked freely and openly to Fenella,
called her by her Christian name ; told her a
great many interesting episodes of his former
life, and assured her frequently that there was
no woman in all the world so charming and so
clever as herself, and behaved, in short, exactly
as he would have done had the deaf and
dumb "Mr White" not been sitting silently
by discussing his mutton chop.

Fenella was not so imprudent. She answered
shortly and vaguely, laughed at
Oswald's pretty speeches, as though they were
merely idle and extravagant compliments, and
repeated more than once that she '' really
must be goinor home."

The stranger meanwhile ate his lunch, and
kept his eyes for the most part on his plate ;
now and then, however, he glanced up sharply
at the face of the young lady who sat opposite
him. There was something about her which
arrested his attention ; his brain was at work
about her. Who was she ?  what was she
doing here? On what terms was she with

Valentine Eyre's cousin ? And, above all,
what was the memory, dim and uncertain,
which every glimpse of her face recalled, in
vague and uncertain Hashes, to his mind ? So
perplexed was Jim Wright upon this latter
point, that he held out his plate for a second
mutton chop, on purpose that he might sit
longer at the table and devote more time to
the elucidation of this particular problem.

Just as he was finishing his last mouthful, a
sudden revelation flashed into James Wright's
brain. The girl was like his own mother !
Now, this was not an agreeable reflection,
neither were there any pleasant memories connected
with the personal appearance of the
defunct lady. The late Mrs Wright had
been small and 'petite in form and figure, her
face piquant and pretty, and her hair soft and
flufly, like that of the young lady before him.
As to her character, the less said about that
the better perhaps  Mrs Wright having been
giddy and flighty in the extreme. Mr Wright,
senior, a worthy tradesman, who kept a milk
and butter shop, having been rash enough to
unite his fortunes with those of a French lady's-maid,
was minded to make every reasonable
excuse for her flirting and extravagant ways ;
but his patience was tried too far when one
day she eloped with a hairdresser's apprentice
from a neighbouring; street. Mr VVrig-ht devoted
himself to the little son which she had
left upon his hands, and philosophically determined

to wipe his Fanchette for evei out of
his memory, as well as his affections. Some
years later he heard of her death in circumstances
of great poverty, and he was not
sufficiently Christian - like in disposition to
grieve over-much at the intelligence. He sold
butter and milk more assiduously than ever,
and to such good purpose that he was able to
retire from business himself, to give his son
so good an education, that he was enabled to
place him eventually as a clerk in a respectable
solicitor's office, from whence eventually
Jim Wright was translated into Mr Malsham's
service.

This, briefly, was our friend's private family
history. How came it, then, that Fcnella Snow
was the living image of that French mother ?
dimly remembered with sorrow and with
shame in the misty background of his childish
years, Mr Wright could not tell. But he
did wonder very much where Fenella had
come from.

After he had left Michael Gale's study and
had repaired to the scene of his pretended
labours. Oswald rallied Fenella upon her
coldness and change of manner to him during
lunch.

What is the matter with you  you hardly
spoke ; one would think you were afraid of
that deaf and dumb man hearing you ! "

'' I was afraid," she answered ; " and so
would you have been if you had any wits,

but I do believe you were born without
them ! "

Why, surely you do not imagine that he
could hear ; why, he never uttered a sound or
took his e3'es off* his plate."

It's my belief he is no more deaf and
dumb than you are ! " answered Fenella.

Good gracious ! what makes you think
so?"

Did you not see how sharply he looked at
me once or twice ? No, you never see anything
! I am not sure that man is but a
detective sent bv old Miss Eyre to look after
me f "

*' Great heavens! but what can he do to
you ! " cried Oswald, turning pale ; ''he cannot
take you away with him. Miss Eyre has no
right over you."

None whatever," answered Fenella, sighing
; " none but the right of might."

What do you mean ? "

That she will always be bound to support
me, and that I am very poor. I have hardly
any money left, and know not where else to
look for support,"

((

Oh. Fenella-

*' I know what you are going to say  that
you will give me money ; but I am too proud
for that. My parentage is a mystery, Oswald,
but I am convinced that I am of noble birth ;
I feel it in myself here'' and Miss Snow
struck her bosom with her clenched hands.

And, besides, I have a cine "  she drew from
her neck a small sold locket hanging from a
hair chain ; she unfastened it and gave it into
Oswald's hands.

He examined it curiously. It was old-fashioned
in shape and workmanship ; upon
one side there was a curl of grey hair under
glass, on the other a large "C" and an earl's
coronet.

'That locket was round my neck when
Miss Eyre found me as a baby  it is conclusive,
is it not ? Undoubtedly I am an
earl's daughter's

Oswald was impressed, as Fenella had intended
him to be. The servant came in to
clear away the luncheon things. She took the
locket hurriedly back and fastened it round
her neck. The snap was old and worn, and
presently, when Fenella got up, the chain
slipped asunder, and, unperceived by Fenella,
her precious locket  the clue to her nobility,
and the object upon which all her future
hopes depended  tumbled unperceived from
its position, and fell noiselessly away into a
dark and distant corner of Michael Gale's
little den. But Fenella did not see this ;
she stepped out into the newly-made garden ;
Oswald followed her.

Fenella," he said passionately, " I believe
you to be as noble of birth as you are lovely
in face. Be my wife, I entreat you ! I
am in debt now, but at least I can keep you

from poverty ; and you are doing everything
for me. If your plans succeed, I shall soon bea
very rich man. Marry me now, and all will
be yours in the future."

Fenella hesitated. Then as they walked
past the uncurtained morning-room windows,
she caught a glimpse within of the new-comer
standing beside a knot of workmen, and
writing down his directions to them with a
pencil As they went by he looked up, and
shot a sharp glance at them. Fenella
shivered. Somehow that deaf and dumb
man frightened her  he seemed, in some
fashion, to be connected with her life. She
had a presentiment of evil to come whenever
she met his keen, greenish eyes. He turned
away and resumed his scribbling. The couple
on the terrace walked on together.

'' Be my wife, Fenella," urged Oswald.

Very well ; I will marry you as soon as
you like," she answered; "the sooner the
better  but our marriage must be a secret."

LOVE SCENE,

Cannot you take  No ' for an
answer ? "

'' Oh, Betty ! don't  don't say
that cruel word over and over
again ! I can't give you up like this tell
me I may hope, at least. Give me leave
to ask you again some day."

If you were to ask me over again everyday
of your life till you die, I could only give
you the same answer."

She stood at bay, behind a much-worn
leathern arm-chair  holding it between herself
and him  in the little back-room in Bryanstone
Square, The '* brats," dio had been summarily
turned out and told to go away and
obliterate themselves in the upper bedrooms
until further orders, had left all their dog-eared
lesson books lying about in wildest
confusion upon the table ; in their sudden

flight one of them had upset the iuk, which
lay in a round jet-like pool upon the venerable
table-cover. Rita's novel rested face downwards
upon the carpet ; and from the distant
pantry where heard faint and lugubrious
sounds, indicating that Ralph, for want of a
better retreat, had taken refuge there, and
was practising the flute.

Betty was red and hot and dishevelled.
Lord Warlock also was very red  redder even
than nature had made him. He looked
intensely miserable, and every now and then
a tear coursed itself slowly over his boyish
countenance. He presented a pathetic and,
at the same time, a truly ludicrous appearance.


Full twenty minutes had Betty stood there.
She had declaimed the word ' No ' in every
tone, in every accent  with every variety of
expression  determined, . scornful, emphatic,
angry  to which the human voice could give
utterance. She had retired from the fireplace
to the sofa, from the sofa to the arm-chair,
from the front of the arm-chair to the back
of it, and still Lord Warlock would not take
his answer and be gone, but pursued her 
prayerfully, tearfully, despairingly  from
stronghold to stronghold. She was now in
full retreat to the corner of the room nearest
the door, with the arm-chair between herself
and her suitor. Betty clung on to the back
with both hands ; Warlock rested one knee

VOL. II. K

upon the seat and tried, ineffectually, to clasp
her hands. She had an idea that if she could
only reach the door without his actually
catching: hold of her she might be able to
effect a sudden, although undignified, flight
out of the room. This hope kept up her

courage.

The more she looked at Lord Warlock, with
his flushed face, his red hair, which in his
agitation he had scrubbed up with both hands,
until it resembled a fiery scrubbing-brush, 
the longer she contemplated his eyes, weak
and watery-and the piteous expression of his
ugly little physiognomy,  the less she was
disposed to pity his sorrows, and the more she
felt inclined to give way to a peal of frantic
and hysterical laughter.

But it was no laughing matter to her despairing
lover. He had been so sure of her.
His mother had paved the way by an interview
with Lady Cornelia, in which the latter
had as good as owned that her niece had been
touched to the heart by his attentions. Then
Lord and Lady Ardencapel together had called
upon Betty's parents ; and Mr Ormond and
Lady Helena had given their hearty consent
to the match. After which it had been arranged
that a private interview with his ladylove
should take place at Bryanstone Square, in
order that he might have the opportunity of
pressing his own suit. The delighted lover
had imagined, perhaps not unreasonably, that

he had but to come and woo and conquer.
He had made no doubt that Betty had been
cognisant of all the preliminary negotiations,
and had given a silent consent to all that had
been answered for her in her name. And,
lo and behold, he had come to the appointed
hour, full of hope and of exultation ; and this
was the upshot of it all  Betty flatly refused
him ! As to Betty, she was blameless in the
matter. Not one word had been breathed to
her of those mysterious interviews between
Lord and Lady Ardencapel, and her aunt and
father and mother. Lady Cornelia would not
have her told ; she knew her niece too well,
or fancied that she did. It was her idea that
she might be carried by a sudden cows demain
; but that were she given time to reflect
and to think it over, she might very possibly
decline to listen to reason.

Ever since that evenings when the oil had
fainted away at the great ball at Ardencapel
House, Lady Cornelia had had a shrewd suspicion
that her niece was interested more
foolishly than wisely in Valentine Eyre. Such
a fatal and condemnable weakness must be
smothered and crushed away out of sight at
all hazards. She considered Betty a young
woman of contemptible and deplorable perversity.
At a time when Mr Ere was free
and unfettered, and when she might justly
have striven for so great a prize, she had
obstinately refused to stir a finger to help

herself. Now that he was eno-aQ-ed to another,
so that no decent young woman should allow
herself to think of hmi for a moment, she was
sufficiently misguided to have allowed her
feelings to be influenced by him, and silly
enough to proclaim the fact upon the housetops
by being taken ill in public when informed
of his engagement. It seemed to
Lady Cornelia that such a state of mind was
disgraceful, indeed almost criminal ; and she
was in mortal terror lest her niece should in
the end disappoint all her hopes and schemes
for her benefit, and declare herself the victim
of a hopeless attachment, which would place a
bar to her ever making such a marriage as her
family required of her.

Hence, not one syllable had been breathed
to Betty herself concerning Lord Warlock's
proposal. Lady Cornelia had once heard her
niece remark that it might possibly be that
she would marry him some day ; and she took
that admission as sufficient grounds for bidding
the aspiring lover have every hope of success.

Betty had indeed, in a moment of despair
and misery, declared that the day might come
when it would be less trouble to be carried
along with the stream of her fate than to
struggle against it. But when it came to the
point, she was incapable of such a degradation
of her naturally true and pure nature. The
revulsion which she experienced towards accepting
for a husband this red-haired, weak-eyed

youth, whose brains and intelligence were
inferior to her own, was absolutely invincible.

No ; were he ten times a viscount, she felt
that she could not do it. To Lady Cornelia,
to her mother, to most of her acquaintances
he was Lord Warlock, the eldest son of an
earl, the heir to a splendid name and a princely
fortune, one of the chosen ones of the earth,
a creature to be set up on high for the envy
and admiration of all the lesser hordes of men ;
but in Betty Ormond's eyes he was shorn of
all these glories ; he was nothing to her buta
mediocre young man, of feeble character,
and of unattractive appearance. Should such
a one fill that place in her heart's inner
sanctuary which had once been destined for
Valentine Eyre ? Never  never !

While he lives I will never be the wife
of another man," she repeated to herself, with
a sort of passion of self-immolation. What
though such a determination where to condemn
her to taunts and reproaches, to a loveless,
childless future, to all the obloquy and the
loneliness that attends upon that fatal name
that is so full of dread to the woman who is
young, and has her life before her  the name
of " old maid."

As she stood backing away into the corner,
clinoino; on to the chair that was her bulwark
of preservation, in the midst of a keen sense
of the ludicrous, of a comic realisation of her
situation, in which she could hardly repress her

inclination to laugh  in spite of, and over
and above all this, there was at Betty's heart
a feeling that she was turning; over a new
and unlovely page of her life ; that she was
about to say good-bye for ever to the dreams
of her youth ; that in refusing this great match
she was bringing down such a very tempest of
rage and disappointment about her ears, that
she should never again be able to resume the
old life, and go on as if nothing had happened.
To take her place again in the world after
this would be acting under false pretences.
To be for ever a stumbling-block in her
younger sister's path, was what she felt to
be neither fair nor sisterly. For how was
Rita to have "her chance," if her elder and
lovelier sister were ever by her side to eclipse
and outshine her ? to make conquests of
which she had no intention of availing
herself.

I must get myself away into the country
somewhere, and live a quiet life, and learn to
be happy in other ways," she said to herself.
Perhaps after Rita is married I might come
home again ; but till then I must hide myself.
I have no right to stand in her way
after this."

Meanwhile the viscount pleaded his cause
with the best means which he had at his
disposal.

*soh, Betty, if sou knew how I have loved
you  how I have lain awake, night after

night, thinking about you ; and I thought it
would be so nice to be married before Good-wood,
and to take you down there, and have a
house close to the course ; and now it s all at
an end, and I wish Goodwood was at the
bottom of the sea, if I don't go there with
you. But you can't mean it ! Oh, tell me
you'll think it over once more."

I couldn't make up my mind before
Goodwood, you know ! " answered Betty,
remorselessly.

The pleading which he made use of did not
touch her in the very least  the jumbling up
of love and racing made her as hard as the
nether millstone to him.

"But I'd give you anytime you like  till
Christmas till Easter  till this time next
year, if you'll only promise to love me a little
bit at the end."

"Christmas, Lent, Easter, Punchestown,
Whitsuntide, The Derby, Ascot ! " she repeated,
docking them off upon her fingers,
with heartless distinctness ; 'all the feasts
and fasts of the Church, and all the racecourses
of the British Isles, won't help you.
Lord Warlock. I won't be your wife now 
or ever ; why can't you take your answer like
a man, and go away ? "

Then he dropped his head down upon the
back of the chair that was between them, from
which Betty hastily removed her hands, and
burst into tears.

But I love you ! I love you ! " he moaned
with helpless reiteration.

But this weeping wail of love furthered his
case no better than did his allusion to Good-wood
and Christmas.

Betty looked down upon the inverted
carotid head in front of her with an expression
of contempt, amounting almost to disgust.
When a woman does not love a man it is
doubtful whether his confessions of abject and
grovelling affection, even though they be concerning
herself, can ever arouse in her any
other sensation save these. His hopeless love
is despicable to her ; his tears are unmanly in
her sight. She may be true and loving and
tender to the lover to whom her soul's worship
is given ; but to the lover whose love
awakens no answering chord within her, the
same woman will be cold as ice and hard as
iron.

What is the use of your telling me you
love me, if I don't love you ? " she asked,
sternly and harshly.

'' But I wouldn't ask you for much love ; I
would be satisfied with so little," he pleaded ;
and you should have everything you liked
everything  diamonds and carriages and
horses, and go wherever you liked, and  "

'' Ah ! now you insult me ! " she cried, blazing
round upon him angrily ; " how dare you
speak to me so, as if I was to be tempted by
these things  as if I was to be sold ! If you

wished to make me hate you, you couldn't
have said anything worse. Do you suppose I
care for your money or your rank either ? "

I have put my foot into it horribly ; don't
be so angry ! " he answered, humbly, looking
quite frightened at her indignation. "I didn't
mean that, of course, though I suppose most
girls do think a little about those kind of
things."

I am not like most girls."

No, by Jove, you aren't ! You are fifty
times better and prettier and cleverer than
any of them  that's why I can't bear to give
you up, Betty ! "

All the same you must give me up. Lord
Warlock ! " she answered, firmly, but not unkindly.
Something in the tone of his hist
words had touched her somewhat in spite of
herself " For I can never be your wife."

Is there an obstacle that is insuperable ?"

There is."

For a moment there was a silence  the young
viscount, who had dried his tears and raised
his head from its lowly attitude, was gazing at
her fixedly and earnestly. He was a foolish
young man, with watery eyes that had no
beauty in them, and a little fiercely-feeble
moustache of half a-dozen hairs waxed up
into points  it was not a face that any woman
could gaze upon with pleasure and delight, and
yet Betty felt vaguely that there was a gleam
of true and honest love in the insignificant

features that were puckered up and distorted
with grief and misery. A little remorse for
her former heartlessness crept into her heart
at the sight.

Answer me one question, Betty, and I will
go," he said to her.

Betty breathed a sigh of relief ; the prospect
of his departure was certainly grateful to
her.

People have said  I have been told a thing
about you  I myself half thought it was so
once  Betty, tell me if it is true  do you
love Valentine Eyre ? "

An older man would never have put such a
question. This boy, in his anguish of disappointment,
longed to know the worst  to
drain to the very dregs his cup of sorrow  to
find out if there was any bitterness greater
than that which he endured already.

As to Betty  the words fell upon her ears
like the knell of some evil doom  no voice,
not even her own, had ever spoken this thing
aloud to her before  no living creature had
ever told her her heart's innermost secret thus
openly to her face  as this boy in his audacity
had dared to do.

She did not lower her eyes nor turn away.
Only all over her face, from her brow to her
chin, and down to her very throat, there leapt
up a sudden vivid flame of colour  such a
blush as Warlock had never seen on any
woman's face before.

*' That is enough  I am answered ! " he
said ; and turned away and left her.

For a moment she stood stock still  that
crimson glow still mantling her brow, just ashe
had left her  then, suddenly, as Warlock's
departing footsteps died away along the passage,
she fell forwards with a low cry upon her
knees, burying her face in her outstretched arms.

Oh, the shame of that moment ! Betty
Ormond never foro-ot it  to think that hero



secret should have been thus drao'g;ed from its
sacred hiding-place, and proclaimed openly to
her very face ; and that she should have stood
there detected and guilty, and unable to deny
the accusation.

'* Oh, why did I not get angry  why did T
not say it was false  a horrid scandal, a wicked
invention ! " she cried, aloud.

But by-and-by there came calmer and more
reasonable thoughts  she lifted her head with
resolution, almost with pride,

There should be no shame  no humiliation
in loving such a one as Valentine," she said
to herself; " let those who will guess it ! I do
not wear my heart upon my sleeve, nor complain
of my wounds  neither by look nor sign
have I ever betrayed my misery ; but I do not
fear ; I will not shrink from the inner conviction
of my love, till the day of his death  whether
he be free, or whether he be married  he alone
is my love, and my heart's idol  there is no
disgrace in my love."

Upstairs, two anxious hearts were beating
with expectation and suspense.

He is a very long time," whispered Lady
Helena.

Yes ; that is hopeful. I am sure it will
be all right. I have managed everything so
beautifully  you must give me credit for that,
Helena."

Yes, indeed, dear ; but you always are the
best of sisters to me and mine. Ah ! it is hard
that my health should be so unequal to the
(tare of such a large family. When I think of
the boys  " and a bitter sigh followed.

Don't think of them, love  I will do my
best for them," replied Lady Cornelia, reassuringly.
" You must think of yourself,
dear.

I do  I do," answered the other, fervently,
and she was right. Lady Helena rarely reflected
on any other subject save herself and
her ailments.

"The marriage must take place before
August," continued Lady Cornelia, who was
eager to indulge in that dangerous pastime
known as " counting her chickens."

It will be a great scramble."

Yes ; but it will be a great thing to get
her married before that man Eyre  people, you
know, have said things  it will stop their talk,"
she nodded, significantly.

And then, I think, I will take Eita to
Goodwood," she continued.

Oh, my dear sister, how good you are !"
murmured Lady Helena.

Well, I have a good invitation to Lord
Harley's, and am asked to bring Betty. I could
easily take Eita in her ]place ; but she will
require a complete outfit  a new dress for each
day's racing. I should suggest white for the
cup day  white suits her, I think ; besides,
she is very young  it looks innocent and nice."

The "chicken counting" was progressing
quite merrily by this time ; the two ladies fell
to work to plan out Eita's dresses with much
interest and enthusiasm  they also touched
upon the approaching wedding, which was to
be " quiet," because it must take place from
Bryanstone Square ; and quietness agreed well
with the economical considerations which were
imperative to the fortunes of the Ormondss.

Of course I shall help you with the breakfast,
and I will give her her dress and veil, as
I did to Helena, but a quiet family affair can
easily be managed "

At this moment the study-door was heard
t( open ; the ladies grasped each other s hands
in silence ; there was a sound of footsteps
along the passage below.

He is coming upstairs," murmured Lady
Cornelia below her breath.

But what was that ? The hall-door shut to
with a bang ! what could it mean ?

The sisters looked at each other in startled
apprehension.

A few minutes that seemed like hours went
by  they scarcely dared breathe.

Then suddenly the door opened, and Betty
entered. She was rather flushed, but she
carried her head erect and proudly ; there was
a sort of defiance in her eyes.

Lady Cornelia rose to her feet. Lady
Helena clasped her hands together.

"Well!" breathed one.

Lord Warlock has done me the honour to
ask me to marry him," said Betty, steadily
facing them both ; " and I have refused him."

Her mother sank back on her sofa in a
violent fit of hysterics.

A Nocturnal Procession.

K Marshal, when lie forsook the
straight and beaten track of professional
rectitude and probity, and
began to follow the tortuous paths
of intrigue and dishonour, did not find that
such a course of proceeding brought him that
sense of satisfaction of which he had possibly
dreamed.

When his daughter, fresh from her ineffectual
attack upon the affections of his wealthy
client, and smarting under a sense of her
unavenoed wrongs, came into his office in the
city, and implored him with tears to pour out
the vials of retribution upon the head of the
man who had injured her  Mr Malsham
had indeed been moved by the sight of his
child's grief, and had promised to do what he
could.

Pay him out, papa  pay him out ! "

Bella lead sobbed. And Mr Malsliam had
stated that if the power within him lay, he
would " pay him out."

*' Would you like me to bring a breach of
promise case against him ? " he inquired,
tenderly patting her hand.

I should like you to kill him ! " responded
Bella, weeping.

"Well, I am afraid I can't quite do that;
and really, my dear, as things are, I think that
Mr Eyre will soon find himself in a very
different position  in which case you will
have had a lucky escape. Pride goes before
a fall, you know, and our young gentleman
may possibly fall very far indeed before long."

You mean that Mr Power is going to
bring an action against him ? "

"I never talk business to women, my dear
if you think you have sufficient grounds to
go in for a breach of promise, then, indeed 
has he kissed you ? I understand your mother
and the servant witnessed something of the
kind ; you might get damages, perhaps."

'' Damages ! what are damages to him  a
few hundred pounds. I want him ruined
absolutely  body and soul. Papa, promise
me one thing, if there is a lawsuit between
him and his cousin  promise that you will
take Mr Power's side and not his, for  "

If I can see grounds, believing that Mr
Power's cause is a just one, I shall certainly
do so," replied her father, pompously.

And at the time he meant it. But afterwards
he was not so sure about it. There
was a vagueness about the communications
he received from the north, which disconcerted
him. He could not understand all that
they implied and insinuated ; he asked direct
questions, to which he received no answers ; he
urged Mr Power to come to town to lay his
case before him and other competent advisers,
and Mr Power only evaded his representations
and disregarded his advice. It did not even
seem to him, at times, that all the letters he
received were from Oswald Power ;  the original
anonymous letter had certainty been
written by another hand. In alluding to it,
Oswald spoke vaguely of a clerk or a secretary,
but Mr Malsham could not clearly fathom who
this personage might be.

Some document of great importance Oswald
had no doubt discovered among-st the rubbish
at Cranston Edo-e  a document which evidently
bore strongly upon the disposition of the
miser's inheritance ; but up to now Mr Malsham
had failed to extract any precise account of
what that document might be, and under
wdiat terms it might be supposed to take effect.
Oswald and his clerk evidently considered ita
duplicate of the sealed letter which he had
given to Valentine Eyre after his uncle's
death, and in reply to a letter of inquiry
which J\Ir Malsham had addressed to Val
upon the subject, he had received from him

VOL. IT. L

an answer, saying that although he did not
acknowledge his right to question him upon
the subject, yet that he did not mind giving
him an answer. In the first place, he had
certainly not destroyed that letter ; aud in the
second, he should certainly act upon it when
the time came for him to do so.

After that, Mr Malsham felt himself less at
ease concerning his underhand dealings with
Oswald Power. What if he where to fall
between two stools ? What if, after losing the
wealthy client, whose only sin lay in his refusing;
to become his son-inlaw he should
find that the case of his cousin would not hold
water, and that his vague claims to the estate
of his uncle had no foundation, save in his
own imagination ? How then W' ould it be with
Eichard Malsham in that case ? This consideration
caused him so much disquietude,
that he indited the folio wing letter to Oswald
Power : 

Dear Sie,  I wrote, according to your
suggestion, to Mr Eyre, and inquired of him
the nature of the private letter which I was
entrusted to hand over to him at the time of
Mr Gale's death. Mr Eyre states that the
paper is still in his possession, and that he
will act up to the directions .he received
therein when the proper time comes for him
to do so. Under these circumstances, unless
you can produce the document which you

state that you have discovered at Cragstone
Tower, and can tell me plainly what is its
nature and purport, I do not see that I have
any reason to suspect any false play in your
cousin's conduct, and I shall certainly decline
to throw up the management of his affairs
in order to take proceedings with you against
him.  Yours faithfully,

Echard MaLSHAM."

In answer to this letter Mr Malsham received,
within a few days, the following : 

Dear Sir,  I was anxious to know
whether my cousin possessed a copy of the
document I have discovered. It is evident
that he does not, and that the private letter
has nothing to do with the paper I have found.
I have no objection to answer your question ;
indeed, the time has come when I must do
so. The deed discovered here among my late
uncle's papers is a codicil to his will, properly
signed and attested, although drawn up informally
by himself. Its provisions are simple
and short. In case of my cousin's marriage,
the whole of my late uncle's estate is to revert
to myself. I will send up the paper in
question by a trustworthy person, and deliver
into your keeping, on the very day of my
cousin's marriage, when I shall immediately
commence proceedings to prove the validity
of this codicil, and to recover mv rights. 
Yours faithfully, Oswald Power."

Now, to understand how Oswald Power
came to write such a letter as the above, it
will be necessary to return to Cragstone
Tower. On the fifth day after the arrival of
the deaf and dumb artist in reduced circumstances,
an unusual thing happened. Mr
Power, and the young lady who came daily
to spend the day at the Tower, absented
themselves for the best part of the day.
They went away together early in the morning,
and by train, apparently to some town
at no great distance, and in the evening they
returned together to the house, had some
tea in the study, and seemed extremely confidential
and happy together for about a couple
of hours, after which Miss Snow took her departure,
as usual, and went back to her
lodgings over the village shop.

The deaf and dumb young gentleman, who
crept about the house on tip-toe, was not
unobservant of these sons and tokens. He
came constantly into the room to search for
his foot-rule or his note-book, bowed profoundly,
made signs to express his distress
at disturbing the tete-astute, uttering inarticulate
sounds to denote his apologies.

During the course of these intrusions, the
afflicted "Mr White " picked up sundry pieces
of most interesting information. To begin
with, he gathered that Miss Snow had discovered
the loss of her locket, and was much
concerned at its disappearance.

I cannot think what can have become of
it," she was complaining ; ''I am sure I have
never taken it off my neck, nor even looked at
it, save on that one occasion when I sliowecl
it to you. It must have dropped off, then, in
this very room."

And then Fenella set to work, and hunted
about the room, stooping down and peering
into all the dusty corners, and lifting up the
edo;es of ruQ;s and druo-o-ets, which she shook
out unavailing in the hope that her treasure
might tumble out of some hidden fold. Once,
indeed, she came curiously close to the lost
trinket ; but that was when inadvertently her
arm brushed ag-ain't the retreating form of
Mr White as he was preparing to leave the
room.

It distresses me fearfully," she exclaimed,
whilst the deaf and dumb gentleman lingered
still. " It can't be lost  it must surely turnup
somewhere."

You might have dropped it out of doors,"
suggested Oswald, unconcernedly.

In that case I shall never find it ! " cried
Fenella, despairingly. " And where, then, are
my hopes ol proving my connection with that
noble family of which I am no doubt a scion ? "

I don't care a fig about your family  pray,
don't trouble your head about that, my dear
girl."

'' But / care, Oswald. Good birth is a
wonderful possession."

'' But if you don't possess it ? "

/ do'' replied Fenella, with energy. " I
am certain that my mother was either the wife
or the daughter of an earl ; there is blue blood
in my veins ; there can be no doubt about it ;
that locket proved it."

The deaf and dumb artist went away down
the passage, and when he was out of hearing
of the study door he stood still and chuckled
audibly to himself

If I'm not very much mistaken, my lady,
your blood is not much bluer than my own,
and your locket was given by, or stolen from,
the Countess of Clayrole, to whom your mother
and mine was once a lady's maid ! Why, I
remember playing with that locket when I
was quite a little chap. I should have known
it again amongst a thousand."

The next time that Mr. White found an
opportunity of disturbing the tete-astute in the
adjoining room, he discovered the couple
deeply engrossed together over a table littered
over with papers. At his entrance these
were hastily shuffled together, and Oswald
Power rose hurriedly from the table, and confronted
him angrily.

Mr AYhite made signs that he had come to
show him a plan for the decoration of the
over mantelpiece of the boudoir.

Oswald looked at the plan, and made signs
that he would go into the boudoir with him.

Mr White followed him from the room.

His quick eyes were sharp and ferret-like, however,
and they had time to take in one or two
details. There had been upon the table a great
many faded old letters lying open, and he had
noticed that the signature of Michael Gale,
with which he was not unfamiliar, was affixed'
to them. There was also, in front of Fenella,
a clean sheet of paper upon which she had
written two words a great many times over,
and although he read them topsy-turvy, Mr
White was clever enough to see that these
two words, which repeated themselves over
and over again in long rows, were nothing less
than "Michael Gale." Miss Snow therefore
was practising how to write the deceased
miser's signature.

This curious amusement for a young lady,
who was sitting alone with her lover, set Mr
AVhite thinking;, and his thoughts eventually
resulted in certain actions, which shall be
recorded in due time.

Late that night. Ions; after Oswald Power
had retired to his bedroom  long after the
old housekeeper and her two maids, and the
artist, who was deaf and dumb, was supposed
to be steeped in slumber  there came a
sharp feeble flying up from the gravel walk,
which hit upon the window pane of Mr Power's
room.

Presently a stealthy step crept along the
stone passage, and a small side door, which
led out into the garden, was noiselessly opened

from within. A small, cloaked figure stepped
into the house from the white haze of the
summer moonlight without.

Fenella ! " in a whisper, " have you got
it?"

Hush  have you a light there ? "

Yes ; in the cellar."

The two figures crept cautiously along the
passage, and a third figure, which they neither
of them saw, came dodging after them, stealing
along among the deepest of the shadows.

Along the passages, across the stone-flagged
hall, through the ancient dining-hall, that was
being restored, and where the workmen's tools
lay about, just as they had been left when the
day's labour was over, crept that singular procession
of three  first a man, then, close behind,
a woman, and then, further ofl" still,
another who followed and watched. Stripes
of moonlight, shining in through the narrow
chinks of the shutters, lay in long, weird-like
streaks across the floor before each window of
the silent house, and each muffled, hopeless
form as it darkened for a moment these cold,
white lines of light, seemed to shrink and
swoop more quickly past them into the
shadows again.

Then came the creaking sound of a key
fitted into a heavy oaken door, which rolled
slowly back upon its rusty hinges. The two
foremost figures plunged downwards into the
darkness, the third followed more cautiously.

Below lay the old cellars of the castle  
cellars that had long lain empty and bare. A
light shone below, the light of a partially-shaded
lantern placed upon the floor. The
watcher drew back into an angle of the winding
stone staircase and waited. The other
two had gone down below. As they stepped
down upon the dank green flooring, an army
of rats scuttled noisily away into the vast
gloom of the darkness beyond, and nameless
slimy creatures writhed and wriggled themselves
into the chinks of the weet flags of
stone.

There is no safe hiding-place in the house
but this," murmured Fenella, as she reached
the lowest step ; " that deaf and dumb man is
here to watch us. I believe he is in Valentine
Eyre's pay ; he has probably got false keys to
every drawer and cupboard in the place."

Well, false keys will not help him much
here," murmured Oswald, lifting up with some
force a heavy flag of stone which had been
previously loosened. 'let us see how it
looks, Fenella, now it is finished."

Fenella produced a long blue envelope from
her pocket, and unfolded a sheet of foolscap
paper. Oswald peered eagerly at it ; the two
figures crouching down upon the floor, the
two heads bent close together against the
lurid glare of the lantern, threw strangely
gigantic and ghost-like shadows over the dank
stone walls behind them.

By Jove ! you have clone it well ! How
clever you are, Fenella ! But, all the same, I
can't help hoping it will never be wanted 
forgery is an ugly word, you know."

What a coward you are," she retorted
contemptuously. "If it wasn't for me, you'd
never have plucked up spirit to stand up for
your own ; for it is your own, Oswald. By
every law of right and justice the old man
always meant that you should be his heir ; it
is Valentine Eyre who is the usurper. You
are only going to fight for what is your
right."

But there is such a think; as fio-latino; with

o rt o

fair means."

Pooh ! all things are fair in love and
war ! " quoted Fenella ; " and have I not done
it well ? Have I not been clever to find out
about those two old men who died in the almshouse
in the village two months ago ; they
were great proteges of your uncle's. Everybody
in the village knows that they came up
often to the castle, and that he used to let
them sit in his room and smoke their pipes,
and hobnob with them over a jug of hot
grog. What more natural than that an eccentric
man like your uncle should have got these
two old men to witness the deed he had drawn
up on the sly without his solicitor's knowledge
? and who is to prove that it is not
their writing ? Who ever saw a line that was
ever written either by Abraham Bott or by

Jacob Symonds ? They had neither wives nor
children ; they had been for twenty years in
the ans-houses, and they are both dead. See
how well they have written those shaky-looking
names  all up and down, like old men
would Write who had never had any education.
No, my only difficulty has been with your
uncle's name, and, I flatter myself, that with
constant practice I have done it at last to
perfection."

*' It's exact. I've had many a letter from
him, and I could swear to it anywhere as his
signature. You are indeed clever, Fenella.
I wish I could feel less nervous over the business
; it seemed easy enough to talk about it,
but"

But me no buts, sir ! but remember that I
have an equal right now to old Michael Gale's
inheritance. You have taken a wife whose
name is doubtful, whose fortunes are nil ; the
only thing she is rich in is her wits. By her
waits, she means to restore to you the wealth
which ought to be yours. For my sake, therefore,
lift up the slab, Oswald, and let us bury
our friend safely away till we want him."

Oswald demurred no longer. With the
help of a chisel he slowly lifted up the heavy
flagstone, and Fenella laid Michael Gale's
codicil beneath, wrapped carefully up in a
waterproof sponge-bag, lest the damp should
injure it. Then they replaced the stone, and
did what they could to efface the traces of its

having been disturbed, by pressing down the
stone lichens and mosses back into their places
around it.

Meanwhile, the silent listener in the angle
of the stairs above had noiselessly retraced
his footsteps. He reached the heavy door,
and here, as he had anticipated, fortune
smiled upon him ; for Oswald, to whom this
nocturnal expedition was a new and unaccustomed
proceeding, had been guilty of an
error which no careful housebreaker would
have committed. He had left the key in the
cellar door.

To withdraw it from its place and secrete it
in his own pocket, was the work of a few
seconds, and then Mr White  or rather James
Wright, as it will have been divined that
he really is  concealed himself again in the
gloom of the passage above.

Presently the couple came up again from
the cellar, and the loss of the key was
instantly discovered. They had extinguished
the lantern, so that there was no other light
save the faint moonbeams struggling in
through a distant window.

The key is gone ! " exclaimed Oswald, in
dismay.

Nonsense  impossible ! You must have
got it in your pocket ! "

No, I am certain I left it in the keyhole."


It must have dropped out  it might have

caught in a fold of your cloak and fallen upon
the stairs."

Then Mr Wright heard them groping about
on the staircase again. He had to wait silent
and immoveable in his corner for a long; time.
In after years he never could tell how, during
that night of watching and suspense, he ever
refrained from yielding to the natural instincts
of his existence. It was an indication of his
devotion to the cause of his patron that,
although his pockets were full, as usual, of
nuts, he was not once guilty of putting one of
them between his teeth. What 
stick-whistling: and bread-crumbling; is to
some men  that nut-cracking was to Jim
Aright. After a very long interval, Oswald
and Fenella gave up the search for the
missing key.

We must wait till daylight," said one.

It cannot be far off," said the other ; " and,
after all, it does not matter much, for the
cellar is never used, and nobody would think
of going to hunt in it for a codicil to a will ! "
Then they laughed softly together over their
cleverness in discovering so admirable a
hiding-place  and their footsteps died away
along the passage, and were heard no more,
and the house became once more still, with
the stillness of the grave.

A long pause  then Jim Wright slipped
out of his corner, and stole softly once more
down the dank stone steps that led to the cellar.

Here, drawing a match-box from his pocket,
he struck a light, and, within a very few
minutes, he had uplifted the stone, transferred
the hidden document to his own pocket, and
replaced the slab of stone exactly as Oswald
had replaced it, with the mosses and lichens
carefully patted down into the chinks of the
pavement. After that, he laid the key of the
cellar-door just outside it in the passage, as
though it had fallen there, and went up to
bed, and went soundly to sleep.

JIM Wright's disclosures.

Valentine Eyes came springing
up the stairs at Curzon Street three
steps at a time. He whistled gaily
as he came, and burst into his
rooms like a schoolboy  and there he found
James Wright sitting; bv the table waiting
for him, and cracking nuts the while with
resignation and patience.

Hallo, Wright ! are you back again ?
When did you arrive ? "
Last night."

'' Last night ! and it is now four o'clock
in the afternoon ! Well, you have evidently
no news of great importance for me, or you
would have been here before."

'' On the contrary, Mr Eyre, I have news
that is both important and serious for you,
and which demands your immediate attention."


A slight frown contracted Val's brow.

** Really, my clear fellow, if you don't mind, I
think I'll put off bothering myself about this
business for the present. You know that I am
to be married in ten days  I have my hands
pretty full, as you can imagine. See here " 
pointing to the table, on which lay a heap
of parcels of all sizes and shapes  " here is
the jewellery which has been sent me to select
from for my future wife. I have carriages
too to buy ; horses to see for her and for
myself  and, in short, I have a hundred and
one things to look after. And besides," he
added suddenly, with a boyish flush upon his
brow, as he began rapidly to untie one neat
morocco jewel case after the other from its
white wrappings" besides, I really am so 
so happy just now, I don't want to be worried.
I know old Malsham has got hold of poor
Oswald Power, and that there is some plan
in his head about trying to prove my uncle
of unsound mind, or something of the kind ;
but, to tell you the truth, you have always
been more serious over it than I have, for I
am perfectly certain that they can do me no
harm."

I am very sorry, Mr Eyre, that you
should be troubled, as you say, at such a
time, and by such a matter ; but I fear that
I must ask you to listen to the results of my
visit to Gravestone Edse."

Val was opening a blue velvet case  a

string of valuable pearls lay coiled up within ;
he was contemplating them with delight 
they were to be his wedding gift to his bride.
He looked up somewhat impatiently. He
had, it is true, given James Wright his
authority to go up to Cragstone to find out,
if possible, in what manner Oswald had been
tampering with the temptation which he
believed that Bella's father, in his paternal
anger, on his daughters account, had been
mistaken enough to lay before his cousin.
But Yal thought that Mr Malsham must be
well aware of the fallacy of his own projected
attack upon him  for who so well could vouch
for the validity of Michael Gale's last will
and testament as the family solicitor ? The
thing would not hold water ; his inquiries
concerning the sealed letter were merely
intended to frighten him : it was a piece of
revenge planned by Bella for his insensibility
to her charms  there could be nothing serious
in it.

He repeated once more to James Wright
what he had said at first.

I am not afraid of Malsham, though I
think he is behaving very badly to me ; as to
my cousin, he is a weak fool, and very ungrateful
into the bargain ; but I am sure you
have nothing serious to tell me, Jim, or you
would have been here before  as you say you
returned from Westmoreland last niorht."

I must apologise to you, Mr Eyre, for

VOL. II. M

attending to some business of my own
first."

*' Oh, certainly, Jim ; you were quite right."

1 went down this morning to see my
father at Willesden."

Oh, indeed ! I hope he is well I did
not know you had a father, Jim."

Yes ; he has retired from business, and
lives in a little place a mile or so from
Willesden Station. He has a nice cottage,
and he breeds poultry and sells eggs, and
makes a little something out of it ; it's justa
nice occupation for an old man."

'' Yes, very nice, I am sure. He was glad
to see you, I daresay."

This conversation was, no doubt, amusing
to Jim, but Val was beginning; to find it somewhat
wearisome. He had looked through his
jewels  shutting up some as unsatisfactory,
and leaving those which he preferred open
before him in a row ; he had kept on his hat,
and was now impatient to be off to Chester
Square to take them to Madeline, and to give
her her choice.

*' I went to show my father something  "

What  your photograph was it ? "

*' Mr Eyre, do give me your attention ! "
pleaded Wright.

Val looked up quickly.

My dear fellow, with all the pleasure in
the world ; but what on earth is there for me
to attend to in this ? I am of course pleased

to hear you had an agreeable visit to your
father, but  "

'' Your cousin Oswald Power is a blackguard
and a scoundrel ! " said Jim Wright warmly.

At this Yal got rather red ; he took off his
hat and sat down. He looked attentive
enough now.

You must be careful, Wright, when you
use such words as that. I have no very high
opinion of my cousin, certainly ; but that h(
could be guilty of any base action, I do not
for a moment believe."

"He is guilty of treachery and of crime  "

Val made a gesture of dissent, almost k}\
indignation.

It is impossible ! You mean well, Wright,
but you are mistaken. Oswald Power is weak,
but not wicked; he would never walk into
evil  although he mio;ht be drao;ored into it bv
others."

And he has been dragged into it."

By Mr Malsham ? "

'' No ; by a woman who calls herself
Fenella Snow."

What ! " Yal sprang to his feet.

Fenella Snow ! " he repeated in amazement
; " my aunt's lost companion  whom I
have advertised for and hunted for for weeks !
What has she to do with Oswald Power ? "

She is there with him."

At Cragstone Tower i "

Wright nodded.

Valentine took a few hasty steps up and
down the room. He was strongly moved by
this extraordinary piece of news, and his bewilderment
was, at first, as great as his
surprise.

Good heavens ! " he muttered more than
once, below his breath.

Then all at once he remembered the
shadowy garden at Hampstead ; the song of
the nightingales ; the long dark arms of the
cedar trees overhead; the jale, misty outline
of the old house in front ; the long, winding
gravel path gleaming faintly through the
gloom  and he seemed to hear Fenella's voice,
as it shook with a strange and unexpected
passion, saying to him,  " I love you, Valentine
Eyre ! " and then again the cold anger
and the concentrated hatred with which she
had turned upon him and threatened him
with her eternal vengeance and enmity.

They were the last words he had ever
heard from her lips : and now she was plotting
against him. It was revenge then  revenge
against himself  which had made her leave
her home with his aunt ! From Oswald
from Mr Malsham  he had feared
nothing ; but from Fenella he feared everything.
A sudden revelation came to him
that if Fenella could injure she would certainly
do so. The conspiracy against him
assumed graver proportions in his eyes the moment
that her name became associated with it.

*' Are you certain that it is her ? " he said
earnestly, stopping short in front of his
humble and devoted friend.

I am quite certain. You know that I
feigned to be deaf and dumb, as we arranged
in this way 1 heard much ; although she,
Fenella, always suspected me."

"But I must get her away!" exclaimed
Val, with a sudden excitement ; " she must
not be allowed to remain there a day longer.
I will fetch her home myself, and take her
back to Hampstead. This very morning I
have had a broken-hearted letter from my
poor old aunt imploring me to use fresh exertions
to find her lost child. The girl must be
brought back."

Wright shook his head.

I fear that will be no easy matter n(nv ;
she will not come."

She must. I will go and fetch her
myself."

That will be no good. Mr Power will not
let her follow you."

Oswald !  what has he to do with her ? "

He has married her," said Jim Wright.

For a moment Valentine was absolutely
dumb. He could not speak for amazement.
Then suddenly there returned to him the
picture of Oswald sitting haggard and woebegone
in this very room, broken-hearted over
the falseness of the girl who had betrayed him
weeping weakly over her cruelty, swearing

that life and love were over for him, and that
loss of fortune was as nothing to him, compared
to loss of faith in woman's goodness ;
and he, Valentine, had sympathised with him
had opened to him his heart and his purse,
and had reached out the hand of affection and
friendship to him, and helped him to the best
of his power. And now this was the end of
it ! Three months had barely gone b}, and
(Oswald was married  and of all the people in
the world, to Fenella Snow !

Val flung back his handsome head and
laughed long; and loud. There was no merriment
in his laughter  only bitterness and a
great scorn.

And then he listened whilst James Wright
told the rest of his story. How that Fenella
and Oswald had plotted to ruin him immediately
after his marriage by means of a rough
deed they had found drawn up by Michael
(rale, to which Fenella had forged the signatures,
and which was to enrich Oswald and
despoil Valentine of every farthing in the
event of his marrying. He told him how
they had hidden this document by night
under the flagstones of the unused cellars of
the castle  how he had followed them and
watched them  and how, by good luck, he
had possessed himself of it.

And here it is ! " said James "Wright, and
laid it suddenly upon the table before him.

Malsham knows nothing of this?" said

\al, drawing a long breath, as he took the
paper in his hands.

He was very pale now ; the wickedness of
those who had plotted against him affected
him more than the great danger he had
escaped.

Nothing whatever, I am certain. They
have kept him in the dark concerning the
forgery, telling him only that they have found
a deed of great importance, which he is to see
in due time. Malsham is guilty of treachery
towards you, but not of participation in their
crime. They have blinded him by allusions
to some private letter you possess from your
late uncle. Of the forgery he knows
nothing



I am thankful for that."

*' I have here another paper which will
interest you, and which serves to prove my
words."

And here Jim produced the half sheet of
letter paper on which Fenella had practised
her imitations of Michael Gale's signature a
great many times over, which he had seen her
employed in writing, and which he had stolen
by night out of the drawer of the study table,
which he had opened by means of a skeleton
key.

You have been a faithful friend indeed
to me, Jim," said Valentine, "and you have
saved me from a wicked conspiracy, which
might have ruined me, and which certainly

would have entailed a long and most painful
lawsuit upon me just at the outset of
my married life. I do not know how to
thank you, for you have earned my eternal
gratitude."

Don't speak of that, sir. Do you think I
shall ever forget your helping me when I
was in a great strait ? " answered Jim, with
some emotion.

'ras to Oswald Power, my grief over his
baseness is great indeed ; and yet I believe
he has been led away by one who is far worse
than himself. He will of course leave my
house at once ; and if I could bring his wife
to justice I would gladly do so, if it were but
for her heartless cruelty to the good old lady
who has wept and mourned over her loss ! "

And Val looked very stern and angry as his
thoughts dwelt upon this girl, who had repaid
old Miss Eyre's devotion and goodness with
such vile designs against himself.

No, Mr Eyre, you must not say that ; you
must spare that poor girl, and for my sake,"
said Wright earnestly ; "for now comes in my
connection with the story  Fenella is in a
way related to me ; her mother was mine."

Your sister ! " exclaimed Val.

No, not exactly ; " and Jim Wright
coloured. " It's a disgraceful story, sir. My
mother left my father when I was quite a
little chap. She went away with a disreputable
young fellow who was our next - door

neighbour, a hairdresser by trade. Soon after,
my father heard that she had given birth to a
child ; that child I firmly believe to be Fenella
Snow, as she has been called. She was probably
christened Fanchette after my mother."

But how do you know all this \ "

First I guessed it by her extraordinary resemblance
to my unfortunate mother ; and
secondly, I overheard her speak of a heart-shaped
locket which was round her neck when
she was left in the snow at your aunt's door.
This locket she dropped and I picked up. J
instantly recognised it as having belonged to
my mother. 1 took it this morning to my
father, and he identified it immediately by
saying that if it had indeed belonged to his
wife we should find a cross inside the case,
which he had scratched there with a pin when
first he was engaged to her. We opened the
locket, and found the mark to be distinctly
visible."

This is wonderful. Fenella used constantly
to speak of this locket, and to base her claims
to noble birth upon it. Had it not a coronet
upon it ? "

Yes ; an earl's coronet and a C beneath it.
My mother was lady's-maid to the Countess of
Clayrole, who gave her the locket, she said,
when she left her service."

My aunt was right. She never would
believe in Fenella's high - flown day - dreams
concerning herself. She always maintained

that she was a fondling, and that the locket
had been stolen."

"It may very possibly have been stolen,"
replied James Wright dryly, with a shrug of
his shoulders.

What can have made Oswald marry her ? "
pursued Val wonderingly.

She made him marry her ! " answered
Jim, with a laugh. " She has played for a big
stake. She is waiting for your marriage to bean
assured thing ; then she produces this
codicil, with its signatures complete. If it
could be proved (and why not ? for the two
names of the witnesses are those of two men
who are dead), she imagines that Oswald
Power will enter into possession of your
uncle's property, and you will be a beggar.
It was clearly her game to marry him ; as it
is, it is Fenella and her husband who w411 be
beggars 1 "

For a short space, as Val paced thoughtfully
up and down the small room, it came into his
mind that it should indeed be so  that Oswald
and Fenella should in truth be left to the
penury which they so richly deserved ; that his
uncle's letter should be as though it had never
been written, and that he himself should remain
in undisturbed possession of the miser's great
inheritance.

For why, said a voice which seemed in
very truth to speak sober reason and sense to
him, why impoverish himself for the sake of

a man who had thus repaid his kindness and
generosity, who had requited so ill the efforts
he had made to befriend him ? why enrich
this base-souled, treacherous cousin who was
scheming to ruin him, when no earthly reason
existed for his act of self-sacrifice, save the
scruples of an over-sensitive conscience ?

But these reflections speedily gave way to
others that were in more accordance with Val's
nature. The solemnity of Michael Gale's
letter ; the awful nature of his adjurations
came back to his mind, and the oath which
he himself had sworn u23on his mother's Bible.
Could that oath, so solemnly taken, be so
lightly broken. Because his cousin had done
evil ; should he therefore not do that which
was o'ood ? Perish the thought.

He thought too of Madeline ; and in the
intensity of his self-delusion, he imagined that
were he but at liberty to consult her, her
opinion would coincide with his own. She
was too noble to desire that he should be so
false to his dead uncle, and so false to himself
as to shrink from the hio-h duty which he had
set himself to perform, only because Oswald
Power had proved himself to be vicious
and unworthy of his regard. Madeline assuredly
would be of one mind with him in this
matter; as to the "test "which atone time
had filled his mind concerning: her, it had
faded into a mere trifle in his eyes ; so sure
was he of the absolute disinterestedness of her

love for him. They would have a sufficient
competence to live on  enough, indeed, and to
spare ; as to the rest, Madeline would say ashe
did  let it go !

Long after James Wright had left him, Yal
sat wrapped in thought alone in his rooms,
forgetting the glittering rows of pearls that
lay open in their cases upon the table for him
to carry to his beloved, and lay at her adorable
feet.

He sat still, thinking deeply. Truth to say,
he was cut to the heart by Oswald's conduct
to him. He had been so anxious to make a
friend of him, had so reckoned upon having
won his affection and his gratitude ; had looked
forward with such a keen, boyish pleasure
to the delight which the revelation of his plans
would be to Oswald ; had pictured to himself
so often his astonishment at the contents
of their uncle's private letter, and his grateful
appreciation of his conduct in carrying
it out  that the destruction of all these
fancies and day-dreams was very bitter to him.
There still remained his duty to himself and
to his uncle  and his duty Val was determined
to do, but all the pleasure was gone out of it !

After he had sat there a honos time thinking
upon it, he rose suddenly, locked away the
cases of pearls and diamonds in his bureau,
and took from out of a secret drawer the letter
upon which so much of his future life depended
; he tied it carefully up with the papers

which James Wright had brought to him from
Cragstone Edge. His brougham stood waiting
for him at the door.

"My Madeline must wait for her trinkets
until dinner time," he said to himself, with a
half smile sweeping for a moment across the
gravity of his eyes and lips.

I will take them to her this evening.
Other work calls me now. It is time that
Malsham should know what I have discovered
and what I am going to do ; the man has been
led away by spite and anger and by false representations
; but I cannot but believe that he is
honest at heart  that he will recoil with horror
at the revelations I am about to make to him.
In any case it is not likely that he will desire
to risk the whole of his professional reputation
over a business which might easily land him,
as well as my precious cousin and his wife,
into a sentence of ten years' penal servitude ! "

And then he got into his brougham, and
the horse's head was turned east instead of
west.

On his way he stopped at a post office and
sent off a telegram.

And when Oswald Power opened that telegram,
this is what he read, 

I expect that you and your wife will leave
my house within twenty-four hours. I have
discovered all, but will forgive if you will
confess your fault."

Oswald turned as white as ashes ; his teeth
chattered and his hands shook as he held out
the telegram to his wife.

'rit's that Mr White!" cried Fenella
wildly." " I knew he was a spy ; he was no
more deaf and dumb than you are."

'' We are lost ! " murmured Oswald, shuddering.


Not a bit of it  don't be a coward, Oswald !
We have got the paper and we will stick to it,
and you shall get your rights in spite of them
all ; " for by this time Fenella had almost persuaded
herself, as well as her husband, that
it was Oswald's " rights " that were bound up
in that document to which she had so cleverly
forged Michael Gale's name. But when they
went down to the cellar to seek for their
hidden treasure  lo, and behold ! it was gone,
and the place where it had lain was emjDty.

Who can then depict the rage and the
despair which filled Fenella's soul when she
realised that the deaf and dumb man must
have watched them and stolen away the
precious document upon which so much depended.
She had risked all ; she had married
Oswald Power ; she had set herself to win this
great game of life, and at the very outset she
had been defeated and checkmated. It was
a bitter blow to her, and yet she was the
first to recover herself and to turn with consolation
to the craven wretch who crouched
by her side with his face hidden in his hands,

groaning out his repentance and his misery in
abject terror.

Don't go on like this ! " she cried sharply.
'* You can do no good, and as I have married
you, I will stand by you. After all," she
added to herself, " there is one think; left tome
still, the thing I value the most  my
revenge upon Valentine Eyre."

For Fenella had not forgotten the note and
the photograph of Adeline Abbott.

WEDDING PREPARATIONS.

" HAT night there sat in Mrs Malsliam's
drawing-room, a man who was very
miserable and very humbled.

Eichard Malsham leant his head
upon his hands, and stared moodily before
him. Bella was away from home  which was
a relief to her father in his present state of
mind ; the younger members of the family had
been requested to remain in the dining-room,
so that their father and mother might consult
together upon matters of importance  the
husband and wife were therefore alone.

Mrs Malsham did her best to administer
consolation to her dejected spouse.

Come, come, Eichard, don't take on so.
After all there's no harm done, and the matter
will be all hushed up. You have young Eyre's
word for it  that nothing further is to be done
about it. It wasn't your fault ; you were not
to blame."

To think that after thirty years of successful
professional life, I should have been within
an ace of mixing my name up with a case
of forgery ! " groaned the solicitor.

Well, Eichard, you'd have found it out
fast enough yourself directly you met Mr
Power, and began to look into the case yourself."


No doubt I should ; but then it would
have been too late  the other side would
have brought an action for forgery, and the
name of Malsham would have appeared on the
behalf of the conspirators. I was prepared to
find money too."

Never mind, all's well that ends well ; and
I must say young Eyre did right in coming
straight to you at once before you had committed
yourself; and if he is going to hush
it all up, T don't see that you need distress
yourself about it. You are no worse off than
you were before  he has behaved well has
that young man."

*' Yes, he has behaved very well ! He never
even so much as alluded to my having taken
up the cousin's cause, though 1 believe he knew
it perfectly. He just brought me the papers
and showed them to me as if he came to ask
for advice, and told me about what that young
fellow, James Wright, had seen and done up
there ; but Valentine Eyre will always suspect
me. I shall never care to do any business for
him again."

VOL. II. N

Well, if he can't be made to marry Bella ! "

No, he can't ! and all that must be
dropped," replied the solicitor, sharply.
"Your daughter has played her cards badly,
Mrs M. She might have got him if she
had chosen ; but perhaps it's a good thing
she failed  for Valentine Eyre is mad  stark,
staring mad 1"

Law, Richard ! what makes you say that ?
What has happened to hint ? Has he had a fit,
or been bitten by a mad dog ? " and Mrs Malsham
looked genuinely alarmed.

"Isabella  that young man was always
peculiar, and now he has proved himself to be
nothing short of a raving lunatic ! " replied
her spouse with impressive solemnity.

Good gracious ! "

Did I not tell you that there was a letter
which Michael Gale left to be given to him bv

tome


?"

Yes  yes, 1 remember."

Well, mind you, that letter is only a
letter  nothing more. It is not a will or a
legal deed of any kind : it is simply a friendly
letter of wishes and requests, and yet this
young maniac is about to make it law, and to
act up to it."

AVhat is it about ? "

It is about to ruin him ! " cried the
solicitor, bringing his hand heavily down upon
his knee. *' The whole of that fine property
is to be given away  chucked into the mud, as

it were  flung about to hospitals and suchlike
 an institution is to be built and endowed
for old bachelors. Everything is to be cut up
and dissipated."

"Everything? Doeshegetnothing himself?"

' The very day he marries he is to sign this
precious deed of gift which I am to draw up
for him, by which everything goes clean away
from Mr Gale's family, save a paltry forty
thousand pounds, and that worthless Westmoreland
estate for himself, and another forty
thousand to this precious young gentleman
whose wife has been trying to forge signatures
up there ; and that young man is under no
more obligation to carry out this insane letter
than you are to stick your hand into the fire
and burn it off' ! "

Good gracious ! but have you not reasoned
with him ? "

Reasoned ! I've talked myself hoarse over
it  he's no more sense than a baby, and is as
obstinate as a mule. You might as well try to
move St Paid's Cathedral as Valentine Eyre."

*' Bu what does Miss Abbott say ? "

Miss Abbott says nothing  for the very
good reason that she knows nothing yet  he
is not going to tell her until the day before
his marriage to her."

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Mrs Malsham,
softly ; " then I wonder if that marriage will
come off after all ! How Bella would crow if it
didn't ! She hould be delighted ! "

*' Well, if the marriage is broken off the
matter drops, ifc is only if he marries that
Michael Gale wished him to give everything
away ; if he remains a bachelor he retains
everything."

*' Upon my word, the old gentleman was
not particularly complimentary to the ladies !"

No ; he was not. Bella has lost nothing,"
continued Mr Malsham. " Nothing
at all  for of course we couldn't have let her
marry him, when this came out ; it would
have been swindling the poor child ! She
must find some one else."

And no great trouble either to a fine-looking
girl like our Bella ! " replied the
fond mother, with pride ; " there are plenty of
men who'd jump at a chance of her  she
shan't fret any more over Mr Valentine Eyre.
And, as to you, Richard, just you be thankful
to Providence, and don't fash yourself any
longer about this business."

It's given me a great blow, Isabella  a
great blow  I shan't keep in harness much
longer. I think I'll put in Albert as a partner,
and brincT on our head clerk as manasseh, and
retire myself from business at the end of the
year."

And, although poor Mrs Malsham was
horribly shocked and scandalised at this
desperate suggestion, she was unable to deter
him from dwelling upon it.

*' In Valentine Eyre I shall lose my best

client," he repeated, gloomily, *' if he doesn't
marry, I can never work for him again, for
he will never trust me  and if he does marry,
his business won't be worth having ; and besides,
I and the other executor get then
three thousand pounds apiece under this
deed of gift."

There is balm in Gilead. Mrs Malsham
found more consolation in that hour of woe
from the contemplation of that three thousand
pounds than she could have believed possible.

The couple retired to rest all the happier
for the hour of confidences which they had
spent together. There were so many things
which coukl be done with a windfall of ready
money to the amount of three thousand pounds.
Nevertheless, the solicitor was humble and
penitent. He truly regretted that tampering
with unholy things to which he had so
nearly succumbed. He was not ungrateful to
Val for having opened his eyes in time and
saved him from the degradation of entering
into partnership with Oswald and his wife ;
but, all the same, he was absolutely convinced
that Valentine Eyre was hopelessly insane.
It was one thing to be honest  with a shiver
Mr Malsham reflected how near he had been to
losing his claim to that word  but it was quite
another thing to be quixotic ; and to give up
what is lawfully your own, in order to fall in
with the fanciful caprices of a dead man, was
a thing for which Mr Richard Malsi;am had

no sympathy whatever  he could experience
nothing but pity and contempt for a man
who could do such a thing.

Meanwhile Valentine Eyre was wholly unconscious
that there was anything remarkable
or wonderful in what he proposed to do. He
had behaved generously towards Mr Malsham ;
he had rewarded duplicity and treachery with
straightforwardness and open dealing, and in
that there had seemed to him to be nothing
strange or singular, it was in his nature to do
these things. What, however, did strike him
as remarkable was, that the solicitor, conscious
as he surely must be of his own grievous
shortcoming's, should in his turn be so indignant
and angry because Val would not revenge
himself upon his cousin, and that he should
use so many righteous arguments to deter him
from making him the gainer by fulfilling to
the letter the wishes of Michael Gale. This,
indeed, did appear to be singular to Val. He
was thereby reminded irresistibly of the parable
of the unjust steward in the Scriptures,
and a sense of hopelessness and disgust came
into his mind as he became forced to contemplate
yet another phase of the meanness of
human nature. Poor Val, with his illusions !
How many of them were by this time tumbling
about his ears ? He had started upon his
life with his soul so fresh and clean  like an
April morning, breezy and bright with spring
sunshine, and redolent with the pure scent of

country flowers ; he had been ready to believe
in all men, to trust and to be trusted, to
yield to all alike the generous confidence
of his own frank and unspoiled nature, firmly
believing that as he gave, so he would receive
from them ii sain ; that trust besets trust ; that
kindness and honourable dealings bring-s forth
gratitude and affection, and that such as a man
deals to those about him, so he will receive
back an hundredfold into his own bosom.

Already all these warm and eager expectations
had been flung back chilled and clouded
upon himself. Already the falseness and the
baseness both of men and women had been
proved to him beyond a doubt. Betty Ormond
had been unworthy ; his cousin had
rewarded his kindness by plotting his destruction
with the aid of a woman who had received
her very bread at the hands of one of his
family, and to whom he had never done any
injury ; and even his old master, in whose
honour and probity he had always trusted
implicitly, had been ready to join with his
enemies and to scheme against him. True,
that Mr Malsham had recoiled with horror
from the clumsy fraud which his practised
eyes had detected the very moment that
Fenella's forgery had been put into his hands ;
but then was it not for his own sake chiefly
that he had disowned any knowledge of it,
and denounced his would-be accomplices with
righteous indignation ? Val could not but

see that this was so. His unsuspicious nature
was by force of circumstances becoming less
candid and less trustful. Things were forced
upon him daily to which he could not shut
his eves. The world had taught him in one
short London season how great is the value
and the sower of the man who has wealth.
His friends were teaching him how little he
could trust to the personal affection of those to
whom he had shown kindness and sympathy.
All this caused him infinite pain. And yet
through it all, one great, one unspeakable
consolation supported and sustained him. If
all the world was false, what mattered it since
Madeline was true ? If all others deceived
and disappointed him ; if the glitter of his
gold alone made these shallow friends betray
him, with a sham semblance of the affection
he sought for, what then did it signify 1

Madeline was true and good and unworldly.
In her pure eyes he must ever be the same.
Upon her steadfast heart he could ever rest
securely, in the perfect certainty that weal or
woe, riches or poverty, could never make the
faintest alteration in her devotion and her love
towards him. This it was that kept his heart
buoyant, and his eyes still clear and full of
hope, that made all other troubles seem trifles
indeed, all other men and women insignificant
and uu important to him.

For Madeline was very sweet to him in
these last days before their wedding-day.

There was a gentle deference in her eyes, a
caressing touch in her soft hands, a certain
abasing of her whole self before him, who
was so soon to become her lord and master,
that, whatever many women may imagine,
is, in a mans eyes, always the chief est jewel
in the crown of her perfections. And Madeline
was so clever. She understood so well
the nature of the man whom she was exerting
herself to the very uttermost to please. She
knew how to hide away in the background
those things which, in Val's eyes, would be
unattractive about her. The imperiousness,
the selfish arrogance, the self-assertion which
were natural to her, and which had once or
twice betrayed themselves in spite of her
greatest efforts, were now all carefully smothered
away into the background. The prize
was so very nearly secured, the goal so all
but reached, that it was worth her while to
be humble, and gentle, and submissive for a
little longer. Afterwards, when she should
be his wife, when all that she was striving for
should be hers in very deed, then Madeline
promised herself that she would turn her
cleverness into another channel. It would be
time then to let him find out which of the
two was to be the master ; and Madeline was
well determined that, masterful and stern
though Val might be, he should be taught to
succumb to her in all things that were
essential.

There was, for instance, that matter of the
old house at Hampstead always upon her
mind. She had never again alluded to it in
any way, leading Val to suppose that she was
ready to give up her will to his in this as in
every other respect. But it was very far from
her intention to do so. To live at Hampstead,
if only for one month out the twelve, was an
idea so preposterous that it made her almost
smile to think how simple Val must be to propose
such a thing. Val had another little plan
which he had submitted to lier to be carried
out after their marriage. They were first to go
up to Cragstone Edge for the space of three
months ; after which they were to come south,
and spend a long six weeks at Abingdon
House, as Aunt Ann's guests. Thus, Val
argued Madeline would learn to know well
both her homes. Secretly Madeline was determined
that she would never know either
house in the sense that her future husband
desired.

The distant exile of the Westmoreland
moors made her shudder almost as much as
the unfashionable suburb of Hampstead
Heath. To a woman of Madeline Abbott's
temperament there are but two atmospheres
in which she can breathe  London  ijur et
simple ; or else, that "London in the fields"
of a large and well-appointed country house
in the home or midland counties, crammed
from week's end to week's end with a succession

of fashionable guests, and kept alive from
morning till night, and from night till morning,
with the echoes of every kind of gaiety
and entertainment.

To suppose  argued Madeline  that with
such a fortune as would be hers upon her
marriage with Val, she was to refrain from
the gratification of these perfectly natural
and lawful desires, would be indeed simply
ridiculous.

She was determined to have her own way
in these as in all other matters ; but meanwhile
 because she knew how precarious are
the things of this life, and because she remembered
the old adage concerning the cup and
the lip  meanwhile she made herself gracious
and sweet and humble in his eyes, and  she
bided her time.

And now the preparations for the wedding-day
were complete. The trousseau, carefully
purchased out of the residue of that memorable
five thousand pounds which she bad manage* I
to save out of her father's hands, bad been all
sent home, and lay, a wondrous and marvellous
display in every drawer, and on every
shelf, or spread out in glossy heaps upon every
bed and table in the upper chambers. The
presents, numerous and valuable, were set
forth below in the drawing-room, which presented
the appearance of a bric--brac shop.
Crowds of acquaintances had come in through
two long afternoons to inspect and to admire,

to drink tea and talk scandal the while. All
her women friends had kissed her rapturously
and gushingly, calling her by fond and endearing
epithets, as tljongh the very fact of her
making a good marriage enhanced her virtues
and perfections. And Madeline had kissed
them all back again, very prettily, with
gracious little speeches and affectionate
caresses to each in her turn ; for she was
clever enough to know how wise in her generation
the woman who turns other women into
friends  how foolish is she who, through want
of a little graciousness, converts them into
enemies.

And at these afternoon receptions Colonel
Abbott had stood by, benignant and paternal
dealing out cups of tea and bread and butter
to his daughter's female acquaintances, handing
old ladies in and out of their carriages,
cooing out benedictions in their ears upon his
darling, his beloved child, so that tears of
sympathy and emotion rose in many eyes as
they listened to him.

It was truly a pretty and pathetic spectacle
the handsome old man about to part with
his only treasure, and bent unselfishly upon
furthering her happiness by his prayers and
his blessings.

And now, at length, all this was over ; the
show was at an end, and stern business began.
Visitors were denied entrance ; trunks and
portmanteaux, and huge wicker-work boxes

were brought forth, and every maid in the
house began packing up the finery for dear
life.

The wedding was to be on the 1st of
August, and the 31st of July dawned at last.

And Valentine Eyre arose in the morning
with a light heart, and a soul that was filled
to overflowing with joy and happiness.

No evil presentiment overshadowed his
waking moments ; no gloomy forebodings
dogged his footsteps as he went forth into
the bright noontide sunshine of the summer
morning;.

For to-day he was about to put to his
Madeline that final test of her love and her
sincerity, on which he was ready to stake his
very existence.

%aM



Persecution.

Betty ORMOND was not among-st
the select few who were to remain
in London until the 1st of August,
in order to see the great match of
the season brought to a successful issue in St
Peter's Church, Eaton Square. Had Fate, indeed,
ordained that she should be in town at
the time, Betty, it may be presumed, would
have fled far away from the echoes of those
joy bells, which were to ring in the new-born
happiness of the bride and bridegroom. It
would have been a pain to her to breathe the
same air upon that eventful morning, to have
opened her eyes upon the same streets and
houses upon which Val would look as he greeted
the dawning of his wedding-day.

This refinement of agony was mercifully
spared to her.

Truth to say, Betty was in dire disgrace in

these days ; her refusal of Lord Warlock's offer
had caused her practically to be sent to Coventry.
For the first few days after the
thunderbolt of her rebellion had burst upon
the heads of the elders of her family, hope
was not yet extinct within them  the cause
did not seem to them to be altogether lost.
A variety of systems were practised upon her.
She was conned and cajoled, after which she
was reasoned and argued with ; lastly, she was
scolded and threatened. Nothing was of any
avail  she remained obdurate. At Fast, beings
of the whole business, she even went sofar
as to laugh at the superhuman efforts
which were made to induce her to change her
mind. Upon this lie was told that she was
disrespectful and impertinent, and ordered to
remain in her bedroom.

One final attempt was made, however, before
the game was given up as hopeless.
There was a combination of allied forces.
Lady Ardencapel in person condescended to
come to Bryanstone Square in order to plead
her son's cause with the damsel who had refused
to marry him ; the sight of her boy's
sorrow, of his flushed face and swollen eyelids,
were too much for her maternal heart. The
countess came, as she expressed it, to see "if
anything could be done."

Lady Cornelia met her by appointment at
Bryanstone Square, and with Betty's mother a
long conference was held in the drawing-room,

after which Lncly Ardencapel actually climbed
up the three flights of steep stairs to the room
where Betty was immured, in order to show
her good and gracious attentions towards the
offender.

How little Tim and Jim stood hiding behind
doors, peeping out surreptitiously with giggling
and snioralincTs indescribable, whilst the august
visitor laboriously ascended the narrow and
tortuous "nursery staircase" has passed into
the annals of family history ; also, how Ealph
took her off afterwards to a T downstairs in the
schoolroom, puffing and panting and swelling
out his cheeks as he made believe to clamber
up the steep steps, treading occasionally in
front upon an imaginary gown, and groaning
at intervals through very shortness of breath,
till the " brats " well-nigh choked themselves
with laughter, and even Rita was moved
almost to tears  all this also is written in the
chronicles unto this day ; and game is still
frequently made of that eventful day when
the Countess of Ardencapel, who lead grown
very portly in middle life, vouchsafed to visit
Betty Errand in that upper chamber set apart
to her. \w fact, to this hour Ralph has but to
murmur " Excelsior," and to give one or two
spasmodic! ]Kings, and instantly the whole of
the junior members of the family become convulsed
with laughter at the bare recollection
of it.

Well, Lady Ardencapel went upstairs and

sat upon Betty's little white-curtained bed,
whilst Lady Cornelia took one chair and Lady
Helena the other, so that Betty herself was
constrained to stand in the middle, there being
but a meagre allowance of furniture in the old
night nursery, which had become her bedchamber.
She stood bolt upright with her
hands behind her back, feeling, as she looked,
like a naughty child  and a very defiant
naughty child, too  waiting to be scolded.

When Lady Ardencapel had recovered her
breath, she opened the proceedings.
'this is very sad, my dear child."
What is very sad, Lady Ardencapel ? "
Why, my dear, that you should be up
here  all alone  shut up  like this in solitude."


"It is a great shame certainly," retorted
Betty, with an angry glance at her aunt, "but
I don't see any sadness about it. I am not
sad at all events. I have plenty of books."

Then the countess changed her tactics,
whilst Lady Cornelia held up her hands with
a private gesture of dismay to her sister, as
much as to sav, " What a terrible girl th

say

to'

isis

; " and Lady Helena lifted her handkerchief
to her eyes in response.

The countess saw nothing of this pantomime
which went on behind her back.

My poor boy is very unhappy," she continued.


Gentlemen usually appear to be unhappy
VOL. II.

when they are unsuccessful in love," replied
Betty quite cheerfully.

Have you never reflected, my dear, that
your conduct may have very serious effects
upon my poor Warlock ; already he has lost
his appetite and his spirits, has given up
Goodwood, and thrown over ever so many
invitations and engagements. I fear if this
goes on he will be really ill ; he might even 
even  die," she murmured, melting into tears
at the pathetic picture conj used up by her own
words.

"Men have died, and worms have eaten
them, but not for love," quoted Betty, smilingly
 at which Lady Cornelia burst forth
indignantly, 

Oh, this is shameful  disgraceful ! this
flippancy ; this disregard of the feelings of
others ; this ingratitude for the goodness and
condescension shown you by Lord Warlock's
mother is not to be borne ! "

Miss Ormond thinks it a joke to laugh at
the sufferings of others," said the countess,
with severity. " You may dislike my son."

"But I do not dislike him!" interrupted
Betty, eagerly. " On the contrary, I like
him now much better than I ever did, and
of course I am very sorry to have given him
pain."

Lady Ardencapel took both her hands and
drew her down upon the bed beside herself.
Lady Cornelia exchanged winks and nods

with her sister, as if to say, ''Ah, you see she
is coming round at last  firmness and discipline
are having a good effect "  all of which
was perfectly understood by Betty, whilst her
would - be mother - in - law was kissing her
cheek.

Then, my dearest child, it is not too late
to re-consider your decision. I am here as
my boy's ambassador, and as you say you
really like him so much, why not make us all
happy by accepting him."

'' Dear Lady Ardencapel," said Lett',
you are very kind to me, for in the eyes of
the world I am a nobody ; I have no money,
and nothing; to make me a good match."

My dear, as if we thought of that ! You
are good, and you are pretty."

Girls don't often get husbands now-a-days
only for that," said Betty, " and so I am quite
conscious of your kindness to me ; all the same,
I cannot marry your son ; and if you were to
sit here till doomsday, and if my aunt and my
mother were to keep me up in this room upon
bread and water till my hair turned grey,
and if Lord Warlock was to fall down and die
of a broken heart  which he is not in the very
least likely to do  all this would not persuade
me to marry a man 1 like, but do not love,
merely because he is a viscount and heir to
an earldom and to a large fortune and a disposition."


After that there was nothing more to be

said. And the discomfited allies took their
departure somewhat ingloriously, leaving
Betty in victorious possession of her solitude.

And late that night a bulgy-looking letter
in an envelope, with a smart, gilt, viscount's
coronet on it, was brought up to her on a
tray by the housemaid, who waited upon her
in her prison, and Jim and Tim and Ealph
all saw it go upstairs, and turned it over andover,
and with delighted grinning and
giggling, wondering what was inside it before
Susan was allowed to proceed with it
up the tortuous staircase.

My dear brats," said Ralph, oracularly,
you will receive from heaven an inestimable
blessing ere many weeks are over your infant
heads ; you will have a real, live viscount fora
brother-in-law, and may confidently look
forward in future years to a large progeny of
carrots-headed nephews and nieces."

Oh, what fun ! Do you really think so,
Ealphy ? " cried Tim ; whilst Jim, with
greater sapience, observed, 

'* He has popped again ! "

As James observes with a wisdom and a
refinement of diction beyond his years  he
has popped again ! " replied Ralph, gravely.
' Here, take it up, Susan ; have you ever
carried a viscount's love - letter before % His
lordship has sent on the wedding-ring ; take
care it doesn't tumble out, my dear ; and give
Miss Ormond my love, and tell her I am

happy to give my fraternal consent to her
union with so handsome a scion of the British
peerage."

Law, Master Ealph, how you do go on ! "
cried Susan, giggling ; and carried up the
precious document, reverently, as if it were
stuffed with gold.

But Ralph and the brats were wrong for
once. Lord Warlock's coroneted letter did
not contain a fresh offer of marriage ; on the
contrary, it practically and finally closed all
negotiations upon the subject.

** Darling," wrote the discomfited lover, "1
may call you 'darling' this once, may I not {
though you never will be 'my darling ! I did
not send my mother up to bully you to-day,
and I am very sorry she went, and also to hear
that they are keeping you shut up in your
bedroom, which is a beastly shame ; and J
want you to know that I will never tease you
again to marry me, because I know that you love
that other person, and you must be quite unhappy
enough without being worried about me.
I am awfully unhappy myself, and have given
up Goodw'ood and everything; but don't fret
about that, as I couldn't have enjoyed it a bit
without you, having so often thought we
should go there together. I daresay I shall
get happier after a bit, and shall go up to
Newmarket later on, when, I daresay, I shall
feel more cheerful. And I would like you to

know that I shall always be your friend all my
life, because I shall never love anybody so
much as I love you, and if you ever want
anybody to help you, or do anything for you,
I shall be quite hurt if you don't send for meat
once, just as if I was your brother. I don't
mean to marry for a very long time, because I
shall wait as long as ever I can to see if you
o(t over at all about that other person, and so
1 send you this little ring, which I hope you
will wear for my sake, and if ever you think
better of it, all you have got to do is to send me
the ring back, and I shall understand what you
mean ; but unless you do that (and I don't
suppose you ever will), I shall never torment
you any more, because as long as you love
somebody else you won't care about me. I
will never tell anybody that I found out about
it, of that you may be quite sure. Good-bye,
and God bless you.  Ever your affectionate
friend, Wedlock.

Pes.  If I feel better by then I might perhaps
just run down by train on the Cup day just
to see the big race run ; but it won't be any fun,
only just because 1 have backed Equator."

When Betty Ormond had finished reading
this letter there were tears running down over
both her cheeks. Poor, simple, boyish Lord
Warlock, with his quaint mixture of sorrow
and consolation with his convictions of eternal

love, and his regrets over his inability to attend
Goodwood races  although he might, perhaps,
if he felt better, " run down by train on the
Cup day "  and his naive declaration that he
would be more cheerful by the autumn meetings
at Newmarket. All that was so very
queer ; and yet the boy's real sorrow and good
feeling in refraining from "bothering" her
was so genuinely to be seen through it all, that
she could not but be touched. A kindly feeling
crept into her heart about him. His weak
eyes seemed to become less ugly in her recollection,
his fiery-hued head more inoffensive ;
even his allusions to the " other person " failed
to fill her with that shame and dismay to
which she had listened to his first words concerning:
his knowledge of her miserable secret.

Enclosed in the letter there was wrapped ina
bit of silver paper a very simple little ring ;
there was nothings magnificent or costly
about it, which showed that Lord Warlock
was possessed of good feeling and good taste
a little gold band with three pearls set
plainly into it  such a ring as any girl might
wear without its ever being noticed upon her
hand. Betty looked at it through her tears.

Poor boy ! " she said softly to herself,
and slipped it on her finger, and then raised
it to her lips.

To retain a discarded lover as a friend is a
feminine weakness which no woman is free
from  such a friendship has a gentle, melancholy

attached to it, and is very sweet to the
woman to whom it is offered. But, as a rule,
men fight shy of this anomalous position.
Very young boys and very old men are sometimes
to be met with who will indulge the
female fancy by entering into that bond of
peace and fraternal affection which is dear to
the soul of the woman who has denied them
the gift of her love ; but, as a rule, men who
have outgrown their boyhood, and have not
yet reached their fifth decade, are not given
to such an exhibition of meekness. A man
will have all or nothing ; a boy, if he cannot
get all, will be satisfied to take wdiat he can
get  that, to some women, creates the charm
of a boy's love  it is decidedly of a more unselfish
nature than the stronger, yet more
impatient, love of an older man.

Valentine Eyre, in Warlock's place, would
have scorned the hand of sisterly good-will
which Betty hei out to him  the letter which
she sent back to her viscount would have
excited his anger ; and yet Warlock considered
it the very perfection of kindness and of sweetness,
and slejDt with it for many nights under
his pillow, carrying it about with him in his
breast-pocket by day. It even went down
with him to Goodwood when  feeling somewhat
better  he ran down by train on the
Cup day as he had said, not for any fun, but
merely to see Equator win the stakes, which
that gallant horse did in a canter.

And this was the letter which Betty Ormond
wrote to him, 

Thank you a thousand times for your
letter ; you are far more kind and good to me
than I deserve. I will always wear your ring
because you are my friend, and I will be your
sister; but you must not ever expect me to
send it back to you. If I am in any trouble
all my life long, and I need help, I promise
you that I will send for you to help me. And
1 know you will keep my secret ; and I don't
mind your having guessed it one bit  nov
I hope you will marry somebody far better and
nicer than I am ; but whatever you do, and
wherever you are, I will always be your affectionate
friend, Betty."

It was not in the nature of things that
the arriving and the sending; of these two
letters should remain unknown to the powers
that were. Susan confided in the footman,
and the footman told the cook, and the cook
told Naylor, the lady's-maid, and Naylor, of
course  being deeply interested in anything
which concerned the family  thought it " her
duty to acquaint " her lady. Lady Helena
sent off post-haste for Lady Cornelia, who
arrived directly after breakfast, and then the
culprit was brought to book.

What has Lord Warlock written to you
about, Betty? and what have you written

back ? I Lope and trust, my dear child, that
your answer has been a favourable one this
time ? "

Very favourable, aunt," replied Betty,
smiling to herself.

"My darling child!" cried Lady Helena,
clasping her daughter to her bosom. " Oh,
how happy this would make us ! and see  oh,
Cornelia ! the dear child has a new ring; on.
Did dear Lord Warlock give it to you ?"

Dear Lord Warlock did," replied Betty,
demurely, and then they both hugged and
kissed her for the space of five minutes.

After which her mother said, 

And so, my darling, you are really, really
going to marry Warlock !"

Not that I know of," she answered. Certainly
Betty was a very irritating young
woman.

What ! did you not say so a minute ago ? "
cried her aunt.

Certainly not."

'* You wicked girl ! you said you had given
him a favourable answer to his letter. You
distinctly said so. How can you deny it ? "

I don't deny it. I did give him a favourable
answer ; but I said nothing about marrying
him, for the very good reason that he did
not ask me to marry him. On the contrary,
he told me he should never ask me again to be
his wife, and that he hoped I would be his
friend instead."

Oh, this is awful ! But this ring ?"

Is a pledge of friendship  pure and simple.
1 have promised to wear it always in token of
my sisterly affection for him. There is no
objection to my having a fraternal friend in
Lord Warlock, is there ? "

Then there was a very terrible scene indeed.
Lady Helena went off' into a fit of violent
hysterics, so that the bell had to be rung for
Naylor and the spirits of ether ; and wdnlst her
mother wept and shrieked upon the sofa, her
aunt pranced about the room storming and
raving at her in a perfect hurricane of fury and
anger.

I wash my hands of you, you wicked, unprincipled
girl ! " she cried. " 1 wash my hands
of you altogether. I well have nothing more
to do with you. I will take up Eita instead."

Oh  oh  oh," sobbed Lady Helena from
the sofa cushions. " Oh, if you give her up it
will kill me  oh, oh."

Now, pray be calm, my lady ; " this from
Naylor, who was accustomed to her ladyship's
attacks.

How can she expect to stand in her sister's
light forever," cried Lady Cornelia, " after
all the time and the money I have wasted
upon her ? "

I don't expect to stand in Eita's light,
aunt. I am ready to give up my place to her
this very day. I don't want to be taken about
any longer, and as I don't mean to marry anybody,

I had much better retire into private
life at once, and leave the coast clear for
Eita."

What is the use of my taking you to Lord
Harley's for Goodwood ? " cried her aunt, wringing
her hands in despair.

Don't take me to Lord Harley's  take
Rita instead. I don't care where I go or what
I do. I am sick of everything ! "

Well, after that there was a silence in the
house for the space of two or three days.
Betty was no longer confined to her bedroom,
but went about the house as usual ; and there
were a great many conferences held about her,
into which her father also had to be drawn,
because, although he took but little notice of
his children, there were things to be settled in
which it was necessary that his consent should
be obtained.

Letters and telegrams also were sent forth,
and other letters and telegrams came back
in answer to them. Betty was aware that
her future fate was being ordained for her,
and something must have eked out through
Naylor, because the "brats" took to calling
Rita the " Goody Goodwood Girl ; " and Rita
looked very important and mysterious, and
altogether rather pleased with herself  and,
moreover, she paid several visits to the dressmaker's
with her aunt.

At last one morning she came into the
schoolroom where the family was gathered

together, and from her face it was evident
that she was the bearer of great news.

It is all settled," she said, whilst the boys
crowded round her. "Aunt Corney and
mother have just told me I am to come out
at once. I am going with aunt to Lord Harley's
for Goodwood, and there are to be two
balls ; and I'm very sorry, Betty, but as aunt
says, it is but fair I should have my chance 
and you are to go and live with Sir George
and Helena in Middleshire."

HOW THE TEST FAILED.

ADELINE, do you love me ? "

The question came from his
very soul. His eyes sought hers
with a devouring eagerness as
though he would fain see into her innermost
heart.

She raised upon him her glorious eyes,
calm and untroubled, yet with a faint impatience
in them which, however, he did not
see.

Why, Val, of course  of course I love
you. Have 1 not told you that I do, a thousand
times over ? "

*' My own  my beloved 1 "

But he did not draw her to himself, or
press her fondly to his heart, as he had so
often done before ; only he held her hands
clenched tightly one in each of his, and
gazed with an earnestness that was almost
tragical into her beautiful face.

They were alone  alone in the room where
he had first wooed and won her  where most
of the happy hours of his overtaking had
been passed  golden hours, countless in their
number, indescribable in their oft-recurring:
rapture ! The room was disordered ; there
were the beginnings of the preparations for
the great event of the morrow. The litter
of the packing up of the wedding presents had
scarcely been swept away ; clean curtains and
chintz lay about waiting to be put up ;
faded flowers had been cleared from the vases,
fresh ones had not yet taken their places ;
the room lacked its usual daintiness and prettiness
; yet what of that to Val  was it not
still and always the scene of his life's delight ?
Was not that the sofa upon which he had first
kissed her lips ? the arm-chair before which
he had knelt at her feet ? the piano at which
she had sat so often and sung to him ? To
his dying day would not that litter of feminine
trifles, that harmonious maze of many shapes
and many colours that makes up the indescribable
charm of a woman's room, be impressed
for ever upon his memory as the very shrine
and his heart's great love ? Could he ever, in
all the years to come, see again unmoved that
drawing-room in Chester Square, where Madeline
had yielded herself to his love and his
caresses ? Val did not believe such a thing to
be possible. Something of this went vaguely
through his mind, even as he stood there face

to face with the woman who was to be his
wife, and asked her once again that question
which man puts for ever to woman with a great
and insatiable longing to read the answer not so
much upon her lips as down in her very heart.

*' Madeline, do you love me ? "

And she answered lightly, readily, as if it
was of no moment whatever how and what
manner she uttered her reply, 

Why, yes, Val, of course I love you ! "

And then he was silent. Now that he
stood thus alone with her ; now that he was
about to tell her that all-important secret that
he had kept from her until to-day, there came
into his mind a vague disquietude, a sense of
uneasiness, almost of nervousness ; something
that was not exactly a doubt of her, but was
rather an anxiety, lest, for his sake, she should
regret overmuch, the wealth he was about to
abandon. And yet he questioned her once more
concerning her love.

You are sure, Madeline, quite sure, that
you love me  me, myself, Valentine Eyre ? I
mean  not because I am rich, but because I
am  myself? "

She coloured. In Val's eyes, it was a blush
of indignation that he should even ask such a
question of her.

Oh, Val, how can you ? Do you doubt
my affection, then ? Do you suspect me  of
the worst, the basest motives ? Oh no, it
is impossible ! "

Lie acted it very prettily, indeed, with an
appearance of reproach and distress that she
did in very truth, in a certain degree, experience.
She chirped her hands together, and
looked into his face, with eyes in which he
could have sworn there were the shadows of
gathering tears. He cried warmly, 

It i.s' impossible, dearest ! Forgive me,
sweet, for asking you such a question ; for
seeming, for one instant only, to suspect you
of anything but w4iat is good and noble. I
know that you are true and guileless. I trust
you and believe in you above all other living
creatures. In whom, indeed, should I believe,
if not in you ?  my other self, my second
soul, my wife ! "

He drew her to him and strained her passionately
to his heart, murmuring fond words,
as he kissed her brow, her hair, her eyes.
Madeline, to all appearance, nestled contentedly
again-t his breast. In reality sie resigned
herself to the force of circumstances
over whelp she had no control, and said to
herself, whilst she was being kissed, 

'* I suppose he won't go on like this after
we are married. It's to be hoped not ; for
I am getting very sick of all this love-making."


"And now, darling," he said, drawing her

down beside him upon a sofa, " now I will

tell you why I asked you so brutal and cruel

a question  a question which made you so

VOL. 11. P

justly indignant, my own ; for I had a reason
for asking it."

He was quite happy now ; her spontaneous
confession of affection  her dismay at his
half accusation  the kisses which he had
pressed upon her beautiful face  all this had
scattered his doubts and his uneasiness as the
morning mists are dispersed before the rising
sun. It seemed to him as though all had been
spoken and told between them  as though his
secret had been already disclosed to her. He
had never, indeed, doubted the purity of her
love, but his faith in her was now more unshaken
than ever.

But Madeline, as he spoke, looked up at
him with sudden interest.

''A reason, Val ? " she repeated. *' What
do you mt'an ? "

He took her hand, and looked into her upturned
eyes as she sat beside him.

Madeline," he said softly, " if I were to
become comparatively a poor man  much
poorer than you and all the world believe me
to be  you would still love me just the same,
would you not ? "

*' Of course ; but you are talking in riddles.
I do not understand you. What joke have you
got to yourself, Val ? " and she laughed a little,
but the faint shadow of a great apprehension
crept slowly into her wide opened eyes.

It is no joke, but very earnest," he answered,
smiling at her with a fond infatuation

as he passed his hand caressingly over her
head.

"What  what  can you mean?" She
looked bewildered ; her breath came a little
quickly. Still, she was far from suspecting
the truth. *' Is it in earnest that you are
poor f " she said, with an attempt at a
laugh.

''I am not poor to-day, Madeline ; but tomorrow,
from the moment that you become
my wife, in fact, I shall become  not exactly
poor indeed, because we shall always have
enough to live on in comfort, in luxury even
but I shall no longer be the very wealthy
man I have been up till now."

She turned as white as ashes  a deadly
paleness, that went up like a wave all over her
face. He passed his arm round her.

Do not look so frightened, my darling ;
nothing very terrible is going to happen tome
 nothing can delay our marriage, or defer
our happiness. And we shall be just as happy,
shall we not ?"

For heaven's sake explain what you mean,"
she gasped. " Do not keep me in this suspense
! What has happened ? What horrible
mistake is there ? Are you not your uncle's
heir ? Did you not inherit all his wealth ? "

*' Yes ; no doubt I did. Up to now everything
has been absolutely mine, but now  "

Another will has been found ! " she cried,
faintly.

No  no  nothing of the sort. Nothing
new or unexpected has happened at all,
dearest  nothing to cause you all this alarm.
I have known of this all along ; my uncle
wrote me a private letter which was given tome
at the time of his death, and in it he left me
certain instructions which I was to carry out
upon the very eve of my marriage, but about
which I was to maintain absolute silence until
that time. Had he not bound me in this
way, you know, dearest, I should never have
kept such a secret from you. Now, this
letter  "

Madeline sat up ; the colour came back
faintly into her cheeks; she drew a long
breath of relief.

'* Ah ! it is a letter  not a will, then ? "

Yes  merely a letter."

** Then it is not legal ! You are not obliged
to act up to it ? "

"" No ; there is no legal obligation, certainly."


"Ah, how you frightened me, Val ! Well,
go on, tell me what there was in this
letter."

Val went on unsuspectingly. He drew
Michael Gale's letter from his pocket and
proceeded to explain to her its principal provisions
; how a deed of gift was to be drawn
up and signed immediately after his marriage ;
how so much was to go to one object, and so
much to another, and how the residue of

the miser's vast fortune, the sum of eighty
thousand pounds, was to be equally divided
between the cousins, with the advantage in
Val's case of the house and property of
Cragstone Tower in the county of Westmoreland.


So you see, Madeline," said Val in conclusion,
as he folded up the letter and returned
it to the breast-pocket of his coat,  "you see
there is no pauperism involved for you and
me  but a very competent income and a charming
oki house in the north, where we can live
with every comfort and every luxury."

Madeline looked at him strangely. She
had withdrawn herself a little  a very little
from his side.

The old miser was crazy, " she said,
sharply.

Yes  I think he was  rather ! " assented
Val, lightly  he had not looked at her.

*' Of course that letter is not worth a farthing
 it is so much waste paper  absolutely
valueless ! " she said.

** It is not of any value in law, certainly."

Nobody of course but a fool would think
of paying the slightest attention to it. You
should have torn it up at once. You had
better do so now. Nobody in their senses
would think of acting up to such a letter as
that."

Then he looked up at her ; and as he looked
his heart suddenly stood still. She was standing

now before him  she was pale still, and
her face was cold and angry.

'' Madeline ! "

You must burn that letter," she continued,
with a forced calmness. ''Of course you are
going to burn it  give it to me."

Madeline, I don't think you can have
understood me. Have I not made it clear to
you that I am going to carry out the instructions
written out by my uncle in this letter?
The appeal that he has made to me is too
solemn ; the injunctions laid upon me too
awful for me to disregard these written words
of a dead man ; he has appealed to my honour
to my honesty even. You must surely
agree with me that the loss of great wealth is
small of importance compared with the fulfilment
of the sacred trust which he has imposed
upon me. Oh, Madeline, surely  surely you
see it as I do ! Do you not ? "

"I see that you must be utterly mad to
entertain the idea of such a thing for a moment,"
she cried wildly. " It cannot be thought
of  it shall not be done ! "

It must be done  it is to be done,"
he said, sternly ; " the deed of gift is ready 
drawn up in Mr Malsham's office ; he will
brinor it with him when he comes to our marriage
tomorrow. When we come back from
the church I shall sign it here  in this very
room  the very hour that I become your
husband."

Then you never  " she began, wildly, but
checked herself suddenly with a great effort,
clenching her hands together. After all the
game was not played out. Did not Yal worship
her ? Was he not even foolishly in love with
her ? Had he not sworn a thousand vows to
her that her faintest wish should ever be law
to him, her slightest caprice a command ?

she went to him ; she wound her arms
about his neck ; she wreathed her face in its
sweetest smiles ; she put up her lovely lips
for his kisses, as she pleaded for that which
was the dearest and most precious thing on
earth to her.

Veil  dear Yal  do not do such a foolish,
mad thing ! There can be no earthly necessity
for such a frightful sacrifice. Think what a
difference it will make in our position, in our
influence upon others, in our power of doing
good ! I have made so many day-dreams. I
have so many ambitions for you. I have
hoped to see you in Parliament,  a leader
amongst men. I have longed for you to fill
a place worthy of your talents and your goodness
; to see you make a noble use of the great
wealth which is honestly and fairly yours  do
not fling away all this for the sake of a deadman's
crazy caprice ! Think what a downfall of
all my hopes and dreams, that you should reduce
yourself to a mere country gentleman,
with a moderate fortune ! Nothing great can
be done in this world without money ; nothing

worth living for can be achieved without

it."

She pleaded her case well. She knew exactly
how and where to touch him the nearest ;
how to simulate that noble ambition which is
so integral a part of the love that a great-souled
woman bears to the man who is dear to
her.

He stroked her head fondly ; he kissed her
upturned lips ; he smiled into her pleading
eyes, but he was not moved by her arguments ;
for he had used them himself, many times
over, ere now.

You overrate my talents, dearest," he said,
and I have, alas ! no ambition to lead a
public life, nor do I think that I am called
upon to do so ; for my duty is so clearly and
plainly traced out for me in another direction,
that 1 can S'e no other course open to me but
to fulfil Michael Gale's last wishes to the very
letter. Dear Madeline, you who are so good
and noble, you will, I know, bear this little
disappointment as it becomes you to bear it.
I regret, indeed, for your sake, the many
things it will no longer be in mv power to do
for you ; but, after all, if you come to think
of it, what does it all amount to ? Not quite
so many smart dresses, Madeline. What do
you want with them ? Are you not more
beautiful in my eyes than any other woman
on earth ? Can dress add to your loveliness,
or the lack of finery detract from it ? And

you have already plenty of jewellery. I
have given you as much as I could, so that
you should possess a goodly stock before my
position changed ; and all these things, as you
have often told me, you do not value much.
Then, as to our life, what matters it that we
shall have two houses instead often ? And two
such dear old houses, too, worth all the others,
to my mind ! We shall entertain rather less,
keep fewer horses ; what do these things
matter ? Darling, we have always each other,
and you know that I shall make you happy
always, as happy as it is in a man's power
to do ! "

He spoke kindly and lovingly, with his
hands about her neck, and his eyes smiling
into hers ; he was disheartened at the
way in which she had taken his news  it was
not altogether what he had expected from her.
But still, he told himself, that he must have
patience with her ; that naturally she was
disappointed and annoyed ; that women love
finery and display, and that he had been unreasonable
to imagine that even his divine
Madeline could be quite above all the foibles
and weaknesses of her sex.

But whilst he was still speaking, half playfully,
and altogether fondly, she sank suddenly
down before him upon her knees, whilst a gush
of tears, that were more than half of anger
and mortification, rained over her upturned
face.

Oh, Val, I entreat  I implore you not todo
this dreadful thing  for inly sake, if not for
your own. You say you love me ! Prove your
love to me then. Is not my happiness dear to
you ? Yield to me in this ! See on my knees,
and with tears, I implore you to listen to me."

Then Val's face grew suddenly dark and
stern, with a gloom which lie had seen upon
it before  and she knew that her tears and
her prayers were in vain  that neither love
nor persuasion would move him.

' I do love you, God knows how dearly,"
he said, lifting her from her lowly attitude,
and your happiness is my chiefs thought ;
but my honour is dearer to me even than you
are ; and you, above all others, should be glad
that it is so. You would learn one day to
blush for your husband, Madeline, did you
find him yield to-day to an unworthy temptation,
because it is uttered by the lips which
he loves."

She rose, dashed the tears from her eyes,
and stood up before him cold and hard and
angry.

Is that your answer then ? Is that your
last word ? " she asked him, in a voice of concentrated
calmness. " You will not give up
this madman's scheme, and burn that valueless
letter '{ "

I will not give up doing what is right
upon this subject it is certainly my last
word."

She took a few paces up and down the
room. He stood looking at her with a great
doubt and a great pain at his heart ; even
then, although he was bitterly disappointed in
her, although he felt that she had fallen short
of his ideal, that she was lacking in some of
those sweet graces with which he had credited
her, and which endear a woman so infinitely
to the man who is, as he ought to be, her
master, although he loves her  even though
he perceived all this, yet still he was far from
guessing or suspecting the whole truth. He
watched her anxiously  he saw that she was
fighting a battle with herself; her brow was
clouded ; her eyes were cast down ; she walked
with rapid steps with her hands tightly clasped
together. He said to himself that her heart
would reprove her  would teach her that she
had been wrong  that she would come and
crouch at his feet once more, and would own
her fault with tears, and pray him with sweet
words of love to pardon and restore her to
favour. Ah ! how gladly would he not forgive
her, and clasp her to his heart once more, and
kiss away the tears from her eyes, tears that
never ought to have been shed on the eve of
their wedding-day !

But whilst he waited that she should thus
humble herself before him, while his heart was
yearning to take her back to its shelter, and
shed forth anew the treasure of his love upon
her, she came and stood still before hint.

There was no humility, no repentance' in
the eyes that met his own, that were filled
with wistful longings. She spoke  her voice
was low  almost a whisper  but it was steady
and distinct, with its own intensity.

Val  can you mean it really f Are you
going in very truth to give up your fortune as
you have said ? "

*' Have I not said so?" he answered once
more, and all the love and the tenderness
vanished away from the stern, cold eyes which
rested upon hers.

** Then all is at an end between us."

A dead silence.

Not a sound in the room save the ticking
of the clock upon the mantelpiece. They
stood facing each other, looking into each
other's eyes  each was white as death. Val
heard the words, and at the first they sounded
hollow and far away in his ears  they only
seemed to be like some dim meaningless
utterance, spoken by he knew not whom.

Then suddenly understanding came to him.
Something between a groan and a cry escaped
from his white lips  he staggered back.

Do you understand me ?" she continued ina
cold, pitiless voice. " I do not intend to
marry you  it is not worth my while. Your
forty thousand pounds would be nothing tome.
It would be penury to me, and I am not
fitted to be the wife of any but a rich man.
It is a pity, because I liked you very much,

and I would have made you a very good wife
but you have only yourself and your own
obstinacy to thank for it. I have expensive
tastes, and I shall not give up my liberty unless
I see a fair prospect of gratifying them.
All is over between us. I shall not marry
you tomorrow  or ever."

He understood her  there was no more
self-delusion possible for him now. Afterwards
Val often wondered how it was that he
did not die  how the words that cut into his
soul like knives did not in truth and in deed
slay the physical life within him ; he wondered,
too, in the after days, how it was that he
neither reviled her nor cursed her  how it was
that he listened to the end and yet never
spoke to her ; but to this hour he has no
memory of how lie left her presence  only
somehow, and in some fashion, he found himself
in the open air, under the blue sky that
was black as night to him, and in the sunshine
that had neither warmth nor radiance
any more.

ED OF VOL. II.

COLSTON AND son, Printers, Edinburgh.

OF Thou

University

Of 



V.3

BY

Mrs H. LOVETT CAMERON,

AUTHOR OF "POOR WISDOM's CHANCE," " JULIET's GUARDIAN,

"deceivers ever," etc., etc.

Nay, but you who do not love her,
Is she not pure gold, my mistress ? "

Robert Browning.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

TINSLEY BROTHERS,
CATHERINE STREET, STRAND, LONDON.

18 84.

[All liif/hts reserved.]

CHAPTER I.

FOXHALL COURT,

PAGE



CHAPTER 11.

THE CITY OF REFUGE,

CHAPTER III.

IX AX ITALIAN CHURCH, .





CHAPTER lY

AX ALTERED MAX,



CHAPTER Y.

FEXELLA SEES AX Opening,

CHAPTER YI.

THE Return OF THE PENITENTS,

CHAPTER Iii.

A WEDDING FAR AV,AY, .

CHAPTER Iii I.

DOMESTIC REFORMS AT Croton,









Contents,

CHAPTER IX.

THE MEET AT Vanstone GREEN, .



CHAPTER X.

MARIA SPEAKS HER Mind,

CHAPTER XL

VAL S Sick-room,





CHAPTER XII

FRIENDS, TO THE RESCUE,



CHAPTER XIII.

ZACHARIAH Crabs's LETTER,



CHAPTER XI Y.

FENELLA AT BAY,



CHAPTER XV.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS, . . . 199

CHAPTER Xii.
Madeline's handwriting, . . . 213

CHAPTER I.

FOXHALL COURT.

:Somewhere in the Midland counties
 neither quite in 
shire nor yet in Warwickshire, nor
 even in Bedfordshire  but somewhere

betwixt the three, in some vague typical
region known only to my own imagination
somewhere where the fields are grass grown
and wide, where the heroes are thick and
high, and the ditches wide and watery  in
such a region dear to the hearts of ardent fox-hunters
 (and long may they multiply and
flourish on the face of the earth)  there stands
upon the southern slope of a gentle range of

VOL. III. A

low hills, a modern but extremely convenient
and comfortable residence bearing the truly
typical and appropriate name of Foxhall
Court.

At Foxhall Court the rooms are large and
airy, the windows wide and sunny, the furniture
handsome and comfortable. Every
morning Sir George Armstrong stands before
his own hall-door and looks out upon a wide
prospect of undulating meadow land, stretching
far away into the blue distance, and congratulates
himself that he has pitched his
tent in the very cream of all England  that is,
of all hunting England  which spreads itself
out mile alter mile before his enraptured eyes.
Every day he goes forth to his stables that stand
a hundred yards to the rear of the house, and
tells himself that no other man, save himself,
in all the Midland counties, owns such a row
of loose boxes as he does. A square-paved
yard  and round it four sides of the
square  nothing but loose boxes ! Twenty
loose boxes, and all of them filled ! Think of
that, all ye lovers of horse flesh  filled with
Sir George's hunters ! No wonder that the
mouths of all his friends water thirstily at the
sight, and that every one of them consider
him more to be envied than any man of his
acquaintance. Twenty sleek, well-groomed
hunters ; all well up to weight, all sound of
wind and limb, and all noted brilliant fencers,
and fast across country. Of course there were

other horses besides  there was a long building,
further back attain, containing coach horses
and harness rooms, and a long row of stalls,
in which stood carriage horses of various
kinds, together with my lady's pair of pic-bald
ponies, and my lady's riding hack, to
say nothing of Sir George's two cover hacks.

When anybody called at Foxhall Court,
they were always taken out at once to the
stables  it was a recognised fact that it was
the great show of the place. If you didn't
care about stables you ought to do so, and if
you were wise you would at all events pretend
to care about them.

Sir George had bought Foxhall Court just
before his marriage two years ago, and he
had as yet seen no reason to regret his purchase.
The country suited him ; and as he
lived for one thing only, he found himself
well placed in that corner of the earth, where
that one thing alone was looked upon as the
serious business of life. As to Lady Armstrong,
she was ready and eager to live fora
good many things, seasons in town, gaiety,
dress, dissipation generally being amongst
them ; but hitherto the fates had been against
her, for during the months which should have
inaugurated her triumphant progress as a
handsome bride through the mazes of London
delights, she had been painfully handicapped
by circumstances which are no doubt exceedingly
unpleasant to good-looking brides, but

which are at the same time not at all uncommon
to them.

Lady Armstrong*, therefore, spent the spring
and summer months at Foxhall Court, drove
her ponies about the lanes, and cursed her
bad luck. As to her lord, he simply
counted the hours, and admired his hunters,
until the 1st of November. My lady did
much the same, and just a month before the
first meet of the far-timed Catchem Hounds,
a bouncing son and heir made his appearance
at Foxhall Court, shouting his way into
this wicked world quite as lustily as ever did
his father at the sight of sly reynard stealing
away out of a gorse covert.

Sir George was very much delighted, and
congratulated himself again on his wonderful
luck, in that the baby had arrived on the scene
at so convenient a time of the year. Had the
infant postponed himself a month later,  he
did not really know, he confided to an intimate
friend, who happened to be near him at the
covert side at five o'clock in the morning,
when out cub hunting,  he really did not know
how he could have managed to have paid his
wife that attention which ladies consider essential
on these occasions. As it was, it was
truly providential, and he could be home by
ten o'clock, and present a daily appearance in
Lady Armstrong's bedroom at a respectable
morning hour, kiss the baby, and do his duty
as a man and a father in a manner which

would have been impossible to him had hunting
fairly set in.

On the 1st of November, Lady Armstrong
appeared at the show meet, which always
inaugurated the eventful day, propped up
with pillows in her barouche, with the son
and heir, a long;, bolster-like bundle of Once
and cachemire, lying: upon his nurse's lap,
opposite to her, and ]>y her side a very lovely
girl, whom people whispered inquiries about,
and who was reported to be her ladyship's
sister, who had lately come to live with her.

*' Brought the young 'utl out, you see,"
cried the baronet to his cronies ; " train up a
child in the way he should go  ha, ha ! Nothing
like entering them young."

And then the hounds began to move, and
he trotted on, looking brave and gay in his
scarlet coat and well-made leathers and
tops, which is the most becoming dress, by
the way, that a man can wear. Sir George
was an ugly man ; but he never looked so
well or so thoroughly at ease as in his hunting
gear and on his favourite bay mare.

How well and happy George looks ! " said
Betty to her sister. "Are you not proud of
him ? "

Helen Armstrong only stifled a yawn.

"Oh, my dear, I am sick of hunting and
everything connected with it ! If you had had
nothing else dinned into your ears for eighteen
months, you would be tired of it too. Men

are selfish ; they think of nothing but their
own pleasures. Let us go home and get our
luncheon."

The horses' heads were turned homewards,
and the ladies and the future fox hunter in long
clothes went back to Foxhall Court, and all
the way home Betty set herself a riddle to
unravel.

In what does married happiness consist ? "
But the barouche had reached the hall door
long before she had been able to find any satisfactory
answer to the question.

Helen had married to please herself. Betty
remembered quite well how she had declared
herself amply satisfied with Sir George's person
and position. How lie had stated that she
desired nothing better for herself than to be his
wife, no happier fate than to share his life. In
eighteen months' time she was already sick of
him, and of his tastes, and a word spoken in
his commendation could arouse in her no other
response save a yawn of utter weariness. She
was glad to turn her back upon the gay crowTl
of horsemen  upon the scarlet coats gleaming
at the cover side  and the glimpses of the
mottled hounds winding in and out of the
underwood. But Betty, to whom the sight
was a new and delightful one, would have
liked to have lino-died a little longer to have
seen the first covert drawn, and the fox "gone
away " across the flat open country. Had she
done so  had she waited but ten minutes

longer  had Lady Armstrong not been so
bored by the whole business, and so ready to
return to her comfortable house and her hot
luncheon  Betty would have seen again a
face that she had not looked upon for many
a long and weary day ; but perhaps it was as
well that she had no chance of doing; so, for
the sight of that face would have pained her
unspeakably, so altered and changed was it
now

It seems to me, Helen," she said to her
sister, " that if I had a husband who was so
keen a sportsman and so good a rider as yours
is, that I should be very proud of him."

*'My dear Betty, you Averse always ridiculously
enthusiastic and sentimental  not in the
least like the rest of us. I can't tliiidv where
you have got all your high-flown notions from.
It is a great pity, for you might have married
so well but lor this romantic nonsense With
which your head is filled. There you are
again, you see, with your rubbish about being
proud of a husband. You really have the
most extraordinary ideas about marriage."

The two ladies were sitting at lunch by this
time discussing claret and hot cutlets  which
was a solace to Helen's mind, and acted soothingly
upon her temper. The nurse and the
infant Nimrod had vanished upstairs. Helen
considered that the fitting moment had come
to bear in mind the injunctions which she had
received from Aunt Corney, upon Betty's com-iii

to live with her, and to read her younger
sister a lecture upon her past conduct.

Betty did not take these lectures in good
part. At the very mention of her " ideas "
about marriage she tossed up her chin, defiantly
vouchsafing no answer to her sister's
observation.

See how you have thrown away your
opportunities ! I cannot help thinking that,
had I not been so unlucky as to be unable to
be in town this season, I might have managed
things better for you than Aunt Corney did."

Oh, there was no lack of management, I
can assure you, Helen ! " with a little scorn in
her curling upper lip.

Well, she didn't manage you properly,
at all events, my dear. Why, you are
twenty-one now, Betty ; you ought to have
been as satisfactorily married as 1 am by this
time."

' Are you satisfactorily married, Helen ?"

Lady Armstrong lifted her delicate eyebrows
and gazed at her sister in surprise. She
was a pretty woman, with evenly cut features
and a graceful figure ; but her eyes were not
so fine as her sister's, and there was not the
same character in her face  she was a weaker,
shallower, gainer woman altogether  in fact,
she resembled Eita rather than Betty.

*' Why, Betty, what can you mean by such
a question ? " she asked, in genuine astonishment.
" How could I have done better for

myself? I have as much money as I want,
a nice country house, plenty of new clothes.
I can have as many friends as I like to stay
with me ; and but for my bad luck this year,
I should have had a good house in town for
the season, and had as much fun as any of
you."

Lett thought she had found the rio;ht
answer to the riddle she had asked herself a
little while ago. She totted off the items oneby
one on the fingers of her left hand.

' Oh ! money, a country house, new" clothes,
company, and bar ' bad luck ' (that's the
poor baby, I suppose), a house in town for the
season  now I know wdiat constitutes the
happiness of married life ! I am glad to know,
Helen  one may as well live and learn. And
all this makes you happy ? "

"I am sure I don't know. I have got wdiat
I want  no woman ought to complain who
does that," answered Lady Armstrong, impatiently,
for she was uncertain what it was
that Betty was driving at.

I should not consider myself happy at all
were I in your place," continued the girl, With
that remorseless plain speaking, which used
to be the bane of Lady Cornelia's existence,
and wliich was beginning to be dreaded by her
easv-g;oin[, shallow-souled elder sister. " Sir
George and you have not a taste in common.
You never sit and talk together, or read or
walk together ; more than that, you take no

pains to enter into his pleasures or pursuits,
or to sympathise with the things he likes.
You cannot even conceal from others the fact
that you are bored to death by the interests
which absorb his life."

Good gracious !" ejaculated Lady Armstrong,
being incapable of uttering another
syllable.

How can you or any woman boast that she
has married well and happily," went on Betty,
with one of those bursts of hot indignation that
were now so rare with her, "if she is not a
part and parcel of her husband's life  one
with him in every detail of his existence ? "

* My dear child, you must be mad ! George's
life is the hunting field. How can I become a
part and parcel, as you call it, of that ?"

Then you ought never to have married
him."

Good gracious ! " said her ladyship once
more, and helped herself to ]pate de foie gras
in silence.

'' What do you suppose women marry for ? "
she demanded, after a few minutes devoted to
the enjoyment of the delicacy which was on
her plate.

Heaven only knows ! " cried Betty, scornfully,
with a shrug of her shoulders.

Women marry for an establishments'' said
her sister severely ; "for a position in the
world ; for social standing which they cannot
obtain as long as they remain single."

Ah, yes  with a husband attached  I see !
Well," rising suddenly from the table and
walking away to the windows, " all that, is
what 1 shall never marry for ; not if I have to
remain Letitia Ormond to the last dav of my
life."

I am afraid you will find some difficulty
in getting what you want," said her sister
coldly.

I am afraid I shall," she answered ; then,
as her eyes looked out over the wide, flat
valley that stretched far away till it melted
altogether into the tender grey line of the distant
horizon, this incomprehensible girl's eyes
filled suddenly with blinding tears, as she
murmured below her breath,  '' I shall not
ever get what I want  not ever  ever ! "

Betty's life at Foxhall Court had been a
tranquil and uneventful one ; she had come
there at the end of July, with her heart
wounded and aching sorely with the great
misery of her life. Sir George had been away
for in the summer when he could not hunt,
he attended race meetings all over the country,
and at the time of Betty's arrival he was on a
lengthened tour of a fortnight or three weeks
in the county of Sussex. Goodwood, Brighton,
and Lewes being the programme of his proceedings.
Lady Armstrong was of necessity
living a very quiet life, and the tranquillity of
the country house was very grateful to Betty.

The 1st of August that year was a day she

never forgot all lier life long. She kept it asa
sort of religious festival  remaining in her
bedroom during the morning hours and reading
over the marriage service with floods of
bitter tears and prayers that wrung her very
soul from their intensity  prayers for him
that he might be happy, and for herself that
she might learn to be resigned. For two or
three days afterwards Betty felt as if life was
absolutely over for her. She moved about the
house like a ghost, with a heavy step and a
pale face, and there were great black circles
all round her eyes, that told a tale of sleepless
nights and of many tears. But Helen was much
taken up with her own ailments at that time,
and nobody took any notice of Betty's haggard
appearance.

Then, when this blackness of despair was at
its worst with her, there came a sudden reaction.
Somebody (she had reason to believe
it was Lord Warlock) sent her one of the
society papers, in which one paragraph, headed
Jilting in fashionable life," was heavily scored
down the sides with ajoen and ink. In this it
was mysteriously stated how a certain lady,
renowned for her beauty, who resided not a
stone's throw from St Peter's, Eaton Square, at
which church she was to have been united
on the morning of the 1st ot* August, to a
gentleman supposed to have become a millionaire
a short time ago upon the death of a
miserly uncle, who died like the hobgoblins of

(eld, in a gloomy, northern fortress, Lad either
thrown over this excellent imrti, or been by
him thrown over, on the very eve of marriage,
nobody quite knew how, why, or wherefore,
save that the wedding-day having arrived, a
good many of the wedding guests actually
assembled in the church clad in their best
garments ; bnt there beings no bride or bridegroom
forthcoming, and no parson to perform
the ceremony, these unfortunates dispersed
after a while to their homes to the no small
amusement of the crowds without. The paragraph
went on further to state that the gentleman
" in whose character the lady had in all
probability discovered some grave flaw," had,
we understand, " fled precipitately to foreign
parts," and an extra ten lines where added,
couched in flowery terms, speaking in high
eulogy of the admirable conduct of the young
lady, who could thus nobly vindicate the
honour and purity of her sex, by courageously
at the last moment refusing to unite herself
to a man whose character was too evidently
unable to stand investigation.

Betty read all this through from end to
end like one in a dream ; she flushed with
honest indignation over the insinuations which
the fertile imagination of an ignorant and impertinent
correspondent had dared to make
against the character of such a man as Valentine
Eyre ; and then she experienced a curious
sensation. It was not in the least a subject of

joy or of congratulation to her to learn that
his marriage had been thus broken off at the
last moment ; what she felt was rather the
in tenses pity and sympathy for the grief
which she knew he must have undergone.

He has found her out ! '' she said to herself,
and she said it not with gladness, but
with heartfelt sorrow and regret. She had
prayed for his happiness, and, lo ! here was the
result ! And Betty's tears flowed faster than
ever.

Then came a letter from Rita, written during
her week of gaiety at Lord and Lady
Barley's house near Goodwood, and she too
mentioned, amongst the gossip of the day, that
Mr Eyre's marriage had been broken off, nobody
seemed quite to know why ; no doubt
it was that horrid, designing Miss Abbott's
fault, said Rita, but that was the natural
view which a woman would be likely to take
of the circumstance, and then Rita branched
off into rhapsodies over the races, and the
balls, and her own successes, and her delightful
new frocks all jumbled up together in a
chaos which Betty took but little pains to
unravel.

A few days later assurance was made doubly
sure by a letter from Lady Cornelia Fanshawe.

Mr Valentine Eyre is again in the market,"
wrote her ladyship. "If it were any good to
suofo-est any thin o: to so incorrigible a o;irl as
you are, I should recommend you to write him

a letter of condolence to his club. I hear he
has gone off abroad, nobody knows where, but
I daresay he has his letters forwarded to him.
You could do no harm by writing a line, and
you might tell him that, of course, Madeline
Abbott was always insincere and fickle. No
doubt he has found out something about her
spinous on with the cousin ; however, I will
leave all details to you, if only you will have
the sense to follow my advice. Kita is getting
on very well, though not half so pretty as you
are ; she goes down much better, because she
is more generally aimable, and does not make
those awfully alarming speeches which you
do. Young Paterson  tir Henry's eldest
son  is already very attentive to her. She
listens to me dutifully, and is a very good
girl, and her dresses suit her very well  particularly
the cream and the blue, etc., etc."
Then followed long descriptions of Kita's
different dresses and bonnets.

It is needless to say that Betty proved herself
as hopelessly incorrigible as ever by not
paying the slightest attention to her ladyship's
advice.

But by degrees the girl grew lighter hearted
and happier. Life seemed no longer to be
closing in an eternal and impenetrable gloom.
Her colour came back to her ; her step became
lighter ; she took an interest in the country
life about her  in her brother-in-law's horses
and cjuite enjoyed being driven out by him

in a high dog-cart, with two horses tandem,
that had never been put into harness before.
For deep down in her soul Val's image
reigned once more supreme. She had no
longer any need to banish that loved fcice from
her dreams  to shut the door of her heart
against all the sweet and dear recollections of
her life. For it was no longer  as she had
once imagined it to be  a sin tD think about
him ! Then by-and-by came the birth of the
baby, and Betty became quite bright and
lively over the small nephew and his wonderful
peculiarities, such as surely no baby ever
possessed before. So that when we find her
again by the 1st of November she is, if not an
altogether happy woman, yet still a very fairly
contented one, with plenty to occupy her mind
and her life, and with only one deep longing
craving ever present in the depths of her heart,
to teach her that life contains sweeter possibilities
for her than she has ever yet been fortunate
enough to experience.

When Sir George came in covered with mud
from his first day's hunting, about five o'clock,
he made a remark to his wife of which Betty,
who was handing the weary hunter his tea and
bread and butter by the fireside, took at first
no notice.

"I am happy to tell you, my dear, that
Croxton House is let at last."

"Is it?" indifferently from Lady Armstrong.


Yes, and to a good man too. He has
brought down a dozen horses, and means to
hunt hard  a rich man, and a bachelor, I
hear. He will be a great acquisition to the
county."

I am glad you are pleased."

*' I am very pleased. It's always a nuisance
having a place like that empty  a favourite
meet too. He was out to-day, but I had no
opportunity of being introduced to him  didn't
know who he was, in fact, till after we had
gone away. I must go and call on him."

"Who 'ris he?"

A Mr Eyre Mr Valentine Eyre."

The plate of hot muffins which Betty was
handing to her brother-in-law fell suddenly
out of her fingers on to the hearth rug, and
whilst she stooped in confusion to remedy the
accident, and to hide her crimson cheeks. Lady
Armstrong remarked, 

*' Dear me, how very odd ! It must be Val
Eyre, whose wedding was broken ofi" with Miss
Abbott in the summer. They say he behaved
badly  men mostly do. We knew him as a
boy, didn't we, Betty ? He is an old love of
mine. Sir George."

Tm

VOL. m.

THE CITY OF Refuge.

HEN Valentine Eyre had turned his
back upon Chester Square, and
went out from Madeline Abbott's
presence into the sunshine of the
summer morning, he had at first no other
sensation save a dumb gnawing pain of an indescribable
nature, and a suffocation which
made him gasp for breath as he walked. For
hours he felt nothing else. He wandered about
aimlessly round and round St James's Park,
not knowing whither he went, and not being
conscious either of where he was or of the
objects upon which his eyes rested. London
was empty now ; the season was over ; the
world of fashion was away upon the Sussex
downs ; his friends and acquaintances were,
for the most part, gone ; yet even now one
or two men to whom he was known passed
him, and receiving no answer to their passing

salutations, save a dull, vacant gaze in which
there was no recognition, wondered what was
the matter with the man who had everything
that wealth and youth could bestow, and who,
to crown his good fortune, was about to wed
the handsomest woman in London. For a
long time Val wandered so, dazed and half
stupefied ; he tried to explain to himself what
had happened, and marvelled that he did not
feel it more.

"It is very bearable," he said to himself.
I had no idea it would hurt so little. Madeline
had refused to marry me. Madeline has
never loved me ; it is my money she wanted
and not me, and she has as good as told me
so, and yet I live, I breathe, I think, and the
world goes on around me as usual ! Can I be
insensible to pain, or dull of comprehension that
this thing does not come home more to me ? "

But he misunderstood himself, as most of us
do. We think that such and such things will
kill us  that, under certain circumstances, we
shall behave in a certain manner  be affected
to a particular degree, and act after a particular
fashion ; but when the crisis of
our lives comes to us, we feel and think and
act in a totally different way to all our preconceived
notions concerning ourselves ; that
is, because we none of us understand our own
natures, for until he has been tried, no man
knows what he will do.

Val, had he been capable of reasoning upon

his own symptoms, which he was not, would
have known that this very numbness and insensibility
at which he marvelled so greatly,
boded ill to him. A wild storm of sorrow or
auger, that seems to shake the soul to its
very foundations, that, terrible as it may
seem to be, is as nothing  because a storm
cannot last more than a certain time ; it
spends its fury, and then it is over, and beyond
a few incidental ravages, does no further
harm, but subsides by degrees into calmness,
and a condition which, if not actual peace, is
in a fair way of becoming so. But that dull
pain, that bewildered insensibility, that incapacity
for realising what has happened,
does but show that the power of suffering and
feeling is not yet thoroughly awakened  that
the worst has not come. These are the people
in whom the capability of sorrow is the
greatest, and upon whom the troubles of this
world leave the longest and most enduring
scars.

Val neither moaned in sorrow nor raved in
anger ; he only marvelled at himself ; then,
after a time, he went home to his rooms.
There he found his valet packing up his
clothes, and laying his wedding-coat, which
had just come in from the tailor's, carefully
out upon his bed. Even this sight did not
give him more than a stab, a twinge of pain,
as it were.

A frown contracted his forehead for a

moment ; then lie turned his back upon the
bed, and gave fresh orders in a hard, dry
voice to his bewildered servant.

"I am going to the club to lunch. When
I come back in an hour's time, I expect to
find two portmanteaux packed ready for me.
Put in country clothes, and such things as are
suitable for foreign travelling;. I am croino-
abroad this afternoon."

Don't stand staring at me, but do as I tell
you. After I am gone, you can pack away
my things in the wardrobes, and give the
keys to the landlady. Here is a month's
wages for you. As soon as you have locked
up everything, and put everything safely
away out of the dust, you can go, I shall
not want your services any longer."

'' But, sir"

Ask no questions, but do as I tell you."

Val was as good as his word ; he came back
after an hour. Whether he had been to his
club, and whether or no he had eaten any
luncheon, must for ever remain a mystery.
At any rate, no one who knew him ever saw
him at the great house in Pall Mall that day.

He took his portmanteaux and he went
abroad, leaving no address of any kind, nor
any place to which his letters were to be
forwarded. He had a craving to hide himself.
When a man is struck to the heart, he
is like a wounded animal, and would fain bury

himself away out of sight of his kind, either
to recover himself or to die, as the case maybe.


So Val went his way, and left no trace
behind him of whither he had gone. And
three days later, in a dead-alive northern
French town, where, by the merest chance,
his wandering steps had taken him, the crash
came.

For weeks he lay sick unto death in a
strikingly hot bedroom, in a second-rate hotel.
Knowing nothing, seeing nobody, tossing unconscious
upon his bed in the wild delirium of
fever, attended by a French doctor, who had
very dirty hands and smelt of onions, and yet
who was not unskilled in his art, nor unkind
in the ministrations of his duty ; and with a
meek-faced soeiir de charity seated by his
bedside, who administered thanes to him
with gentle hands, and listened unmoved to
all her patient's wild ravings, uttered in
broken cries and in an unknown tongue.

Ce pauvre monsieur Anglais, as they
called him, not knowing him by any other
name, had a hard fight of it for his life, during
those long terrible weeks of fever. Always
before his eyes he saw his dream over again 
the dream that he had dreamt in (Curzon
Street, where Madeline first chained his heart.
Always he saw the church, and the flower-decked
altar, and the stained-glass window
above, and the crowds behind. And he heard

the organ pealing, and saw the white-veiled
figure at his right hand  the figure of his
bride. And then, with a wild crash, everything
changed,  flames of fire burst forth
around him, the church crumbled away into
dust, and he stood hand in hand, not with
Madeline, but with a hideous grinning skeleton.
Over and over again this dream or vision,
whichever it might be, presented itself with a
frightful pertinacity to his disordered imagination,
until it began to seem to him at last like
a thing which had really happened, and a sort
of despair settled upon him that he would
ever be rid of, what was in very truth a
memory and not a hallucination. But he was
young, and life was strong in his veins ; and
his constitution, naturally a good one, had
never been tampered with. There were no
excesses of youth in the background of Yal's
life to drag him back with leaden hands into
the jaws of death. The disease spent itself
and took its departure ; and so, after a time,
he got better.

He rose from his sick-bed, white and weak
indeed, but not otherwise the worse for his
struggle with the Shadow of Death. He paid
his doctor and his landlady, and the chambermaid
and the waiter and the boots of the
hotel, with a liberality which astonished and
delighted the whole community ; and he was
deeply distressed that the good sister of mercy
refused to be paid in any other way than by

contributions to the different charities of the
town to which she devoted her gentle and
holy life ; and then he took his way, and departed
southwards, moving slowly and aimlessly
from one town to the other, until at
length he found himself in Italy.

He came to an anchorage at last in a small
town, perched upon the summit of a vine-clad
hill. There were blue mountains to the north
of it, and blue sea to the south, and a vast
tract of flat, rich plain between the two ; and
below the town a rustling, brawling river, winding
round the base of the conical hill, spanned
by a three-arched bridge of ancient grey stonework,
with maidenhair fern growing out of
every chink and crevice of the solid masonry.
At the top of the hill was a church, and a convent,
and an inn, and a straggling little town,
with dazzlingly white walls and bright, red-tiled
roofs, scrambled irregularly down the
steep slopes amongst the vineyards and the
gardens.

Long ago, in the days of the middle ages 
when Italian cities were a name and a powder
Albona had probably been a place of some
importance. In times of war its position had
rendered it a stronghold : in times of peace,
a brisk trade of silk and cloth goods had
flourished within its walls ; the counts of
Albona were great and powerful nobles, whose
name was a terror to their enemies, and who
scourged the plains around with the reckless

audacity of the semi-barbarous age in which
they lived. But now the wide, rough-paved
streets where grass grown and deserted ; its
silk and cloth factories were heaps of picturesque
and venerable ruins ; and the last of the
counts of Albona lay buried beneath the flagstones
of the cathedral nave, and the name
that was once so powerful was forgotten ; the
old family was extinct, and their place knew
them no more.

Few travellers came to Albona ; the hotel
was bad, and the art treasures insufficient to
attract the curious ; some large, half-effaced
frescoes, of doubtful origin and in bad preservation,
where to be seen in the interior of
the fine old church, and there was an altarpiece
by an unknown painter of some merit
in a side chapel ; but there was nothing else
of any value at Albona ; and Murray having
failed to make a note of these peculiarities,
and the town lying many miles away from
the beaten track, it followed that sightseers
were almost unknown, and English and
American tourists  with their grey suits and
knickerbockers, with their self-assertion and
their money  came but rarely to disturb the
old world tranquillity of the forgotten little
town.

How Val Eyre came to pitch upon it, I
know not ; but having found it, he remained
there with a pertinacity which was certainly
singular. For there was nothing; to recommend

Albona to the British mind save its
innate picturesqueness, and the tender beauty
of its distant views of mountain and plain.
The hotel was dirty and uncomfortable ; the
beds hard ; the cooking execrable ; the patron
was a wrinkled, yellow-skinned woman,
who at forty had none of the comeliness of
the English landlady of that time of life, but
looked sixty at least, and had a loud rasping
voice, which was for ever raised in scolding,
angry accents, chiefly against her spouse, an
ill-conditioned, lazy fellow, who lay all day
long outside the house in the sun smoking
a clay pipe, and contributing nothing to
the working of the establishment. The
patron's voice rang at first through Yal's
brain like the perpetual jangle of discordant
bells, but after a time he got used to it, and
learnt to endure it ; and still he lingered at
Albona. There was nothings on earth to do ;
every morning he sauntered round the little
town ; nodded to the women sitting at the
open doorways with their lace pillows ; threw
a few coppers to the ragged, bronze-skinned
children ; exchanged a friendly good morning
with the handsome, lazy-looking men who
lounged about doing nothing at the street
corners. Then he would stroll into the coolness
of the church, and sit on one of the straw-seated
'prie dieu chairs, listening to the singing
of the white-robed choristers up in the
choir, and watching, with the idle eyes of an

outsider, the services of the church as they
proceeded in their daily order.

After that, he would wander forth again ;
take a walk perhaps amongst the vineyards
and the olive groves, or stand for hours leaning
upon the parapet of the bridge below the
town watching the rushing waters of the
river as they sped hurriedly by on their way
to the sea  this was his life. He did literally
nothing, but he thought  until his brain
ached with thinking; -he thought over his
ruined prospects and his broken life ; he
thought about Madeline  no longer as the
love and idol of his soul  but curiously,
wonderingly as of some horrible and revolting
problem which had been mercifully revealed
to him before it was too late. For he had
come to thanking God that he had been saved
from marrying such a woman. He was not
always in this mood. There were times
indeed when the agony of his regret  not
so much for her as for his broken ideal 
was almost too great for him to bear ; when
he lay awake whole nights unable to banish
her image of perfect beauty from his mind ;
when he walked abroad for whole days together
haunted by the minute and detailed
realisation of the " might have been " of his
lost happiness. These were his worst times,
but by degrees they grew rarer, and as his
sorrow and regret decreased, so did the hardness
and indignation of his soul increase. A

great scorn of all women  a great unbelief in
all mankind grew up within him. The
earnest, simple soul that had turned upon
all men the sunshine of its own trusting
and confident nature, became clouded and
overshadowed.

He seemed to see his past with a clearer
comprehension ; to understand why he had
been welcomed with open arms by the world
as soon as he became rich, and yet how one
and all had tried to get the better of him, and
had cheated him out of the regard and the
affection which they had feigned for him.
The world was no longer now to him an
enchanted reign of happiness and delight  it
became to him an unlovely and hideous place,
filled with falseness and treachery, and peopled
with men and women who were heartless and
mercenary.

And then he became very bitter in his
thoughts. He told himself that Michael Gale
was right,  that marriage was a horrible and
delusive snare ; that the old man who had
lived and hoarded his sold for his own satisfaction,
and whom men had called a miser, was
a wiser man than he who held it forth with
both hands to grasping fellow creatures, who
crowded round him to get what they could,
and who repaid kindness and liberality with
treachery and ingratitude. One day Val hung
over the parapet of the maidenhair - covered
bridge, and said to himself, 

*' I will fulfil my dead uncle's last wishes in
quite another way to that which I had meant
to do. Why should I impoverish myself to
enrich a cousin who has plotted to ruin me,
and who has united himself to an adventuress,
who planned an actual crime in order to reduce
me to beggary. I will never marry, and I will
enjoy my money in my own way."

He was not minded, certainly, to live the
life of a solitary miser ; he had no desire to
save his money for posterity, or to live on
husks himself. But he told himself that he
would spend his money on himself, and upon
his own pleasures, regardless of the feelings
and the sufferings of the world, which he
despised.

Two days later he discovered that the time
of the year was October  that men at home
were shooting partridges and pheasants, and
looking out their hunting gear.

Why should I linger here doing nothing,
and wasting my manhood in this dead-alive
little city of the past ? " said our hero to himself.
" Because I have been hit hard am I to
give up all my life to senseless bemoaning
and bewailing ? I will go back and live my
life out in my own country."

When he had come to this resolution he still
lingered a day or two longer, debating within
himself in what way he should wrench himself
away from this life of complete indolence,
which had suited him of late so well, and

which, in all probability, the weakness still
clinging to him from his late severe illness
had rendered grateful to him.

In the end he wrote a letter  a thing which
he had not done for a great many weeks 
and the letter was to James Wright, the one
true and faithful friend, he told himself, whom
he had on earth.

Albona, October \1th.

Dear Jim,  I have been here some time.

I have been very ill, but am all right now.

Be a good fellow, and go to some house agent

for me, and find me a o;ood house somewhere

. .

in the shires, with stabling for about fifteen

horses, the house to be well furnished, and the
stables in good order. I don't care where it is
as long as it's in a first-rate hunting neighbourhood.
Please take it for me for the winter.
I don't care what the rent is. You can eno-aoe
servants too, and send them down, and then
write and let me know, and I will come home
at once. I shall buy my hunters on my
arrival in town. I wish, like a good fellow,
that you would come and live with me as my
house steward, manager, etc. I shall want
somebody to look after things, and you shall
not be the loser. Write here as soon as you
have seen a house.  Yours, V. Eye."

Then Yal waited on at Albona for the
answer to his letter.

A few days later an unusual event happened
in Albona. Late one afternoon a travelling;
carriage, laden with luggage, came dashing
up to the door of the little hotel. Yal, in the
sanctuary of his little sitting-room, heard the
brisk sound of laughter and the chatter of
English voices as the travellers descended at
the door  and there was a great commotion in
the establishment. The patron's voice was
heard louder than ever explaining, scolding,
expostulating. Liza, the maid, and Tonic,
the waiter  who was also boots, porter, and
pastry cook  were sent flying about all over
the place ; even the lazy landlord aroused
himself to some activity in order to wait upon
the strangers.

When the tumult had somewhat subsided,
Val ventured forth out of his room. He met
the patron in the narrow passage. She flung
up her yellow hands in excitement.

Oh, signor ! such an event ! Such visitors !
The most distinguished persons have arrived.
A milord Anglais and his daughter, and with
them his Excellence Prince Tornadi  a very
great noble indeed, and rich  oh, very rich !
They are all travelling on their way to Venice ;
and there is nothing to eat, signor ! nothing
save the fillet de boeuf, now at the fire for your
dinner, and one chicken which, the saints be
praised, was yet alive in the yard, and which
Tonic has, this very minute, gone out to
kill ! "

Val laughed.

'' What are you going to do with my dinner,
then ? "

Oh, if the signor would be so very good
then would all the saints preserve him  if
just for once he wouldn't mind an omelette for
his dinner ? There were plenty of eggs 
always eggs  and then the distinguished
persons could have the fillet as well as the
chicken ! Consider, signor, it is for a prince !
and for the bellissima donna he is about to
marry ! "

Val laughed again and consented, in consideration
of the exalted rank of the newly-arrived
travellers, to forego his fillet and put
up with the omelette. But he began to think
that if starvation was about to stare him in
the face, it was getting high time to change
his quarters.

He told the patron that he was going out,
and would not trouble her to prepare his
frugal meal until a later hour. It was a
prudent ste23, he considered, to get himself out
of the way of the commotion and confusion
which attended the lodging, and feeding of
the distinguished persons." So he went out
and sauntered up the steep street of the little
town.

The women called out " Buena Sera " to
him ; the children stretched out brown jDalms
for the coppers he was wont to bestow upon
them ; the men accepted little offerings of

tobacco and cigarettes with that grand air of
conferring a favour rather than receiving a
present which distinguishes the Italian peasant.
Val turned into the post office and found there
his expected letter from James Wright.

I will do as you bid me about the house,"
wrote this humble friend, " but I think you
ought to come back at once and without delay,
for your aunt, Miss Eyre, at Hampstead is, I
hear, very ill indeed, and not likely to recover."

This turned Val's face very grave indeed,
and a pang went through his heart, that in
the selfishness of his own sorrow he had
neglected the old lady so long.

I will start for home tomorrow," he said to
himself, and then he found himself, by force
of habit, outside the western end of the old
church. The doors were wide open. He
went in.

 ..

VOL. III.

IN AN ITALIAN CHURCH.

lgjstHE dusk came on apace. The great
vaulted roof was already wrapped
in gloom, grey shadows stole
amongst pointed arches and fluted
pillars, and played tricks with the dying
gleams of daylight over grotesque heads of
devils and patriarchs, of angels and of monsters,
that were jumbled together weirdly amongst
the rich carvings of capitals and bosses.
Along the northern transept the half effaced
frescoes caught the last glimmer of light, and
giant forms of saints and martyrs seemed to
detach themselves faintly from the growing
darkness beyond. One red light gleamed
steadily in a hanging lamp before the high
altar. An acolyte, in the far distant choir,
was covering up the gold embroideries with
white linen wrappers  his footsteps echoed
sharply through the vast empty church, and
died away as he passed out through the vestry

door, slitting and locking it noisily behind
him. The church was left in silence. Val
stole, in on tip-toe, and sat down in the deep
shadow close to one of the heavy columns of
the nave.

He sat there a long while. The place was
familiar and homelike to him  but tomorrow
he would be gone, and Albona would know
him no longer. He had not been happy here,
and yet he felt a faint regret at leaving. Val
had a faithful heart, and he was grateful to the
quiet little town with its solemn old church,
which had sheltered him in his stricken loneliness
for so many weeks. It had been a time
of peace to him, and he felt that the rest and
the stagnation, even the utter dulness of his
life here, had been good for him. He was more
than half sorry to leave it, for now the burden
of his life had to be taken up again, the world
had to be faced ; he had to bring his seared
heart and his altered hopes in contact once
more with his fellow-creatures, and Heaven
only knew how he would be able to do it.

The deserted little town upon the vine-clad
hill had endeared itself to him. Now that he
was about to leave her, Albona and her memories
of the past seemed to possess a thousand
charms in his eyes. He began to conjure up
all sorts of wild fancies concerning; her as he
sat alone in the twilight, under the arches of
her ancient chur(;li. Without, in her streets,
he seemed to hear once more the busy whirl of

the looms in her ruined factories, the clang of
steel as the men-at-arms paced before her
walls, the hum and throng of men coming
and going, and a hundred varied sounds of
life and activity. Then, all at once, from
their long closed vaults the dead and gone
counts of Albona rose up one by one from
their silent tombs and stood forth in brave
array along the shadowy width of the aisle.
A goodly crowd were they, great, strong,
bronzed-featured men, clad in coats of mail
or sheeted plate armour ; gay plumes waved
upon their steel helmets ; tattered banners,
that had weathered many a battle-field, were
grasped in their iron gauntleted hands, and
the echoes of their footsteps clanged noisily
down the stone-paved church as they trooped
forth to head their people once more, as in the
days of old when they had been yet on earth.

So vividly did the ghostly procession seem
to rise up and move before him, that Yal
positively started when suddenly a human
voice broke the silence of his dreams, and all
these wonderful visions faded swiftly away
into silence and emptiness.

"This way, signora  there is a steed into
the porch ; take care. Give me, then, your
adorable hand  is it not what I am always
asking you for ? "

The voice was a man's, and unmistakably
Italian  the words were in very good English.
Through the wide-open doors of the western

porch two figures  a man's and a woman's 
came darkly outlined against the charm oscuia
of the pale opal sky, already glinted faintly
with the silver light of the rising moon.

A man, slight of figure ; a woman, tall, but
mused up in some heavy cloak which covered
her from head to foot. Nothing else was to
be seen of them ; they were as impenetrably
black against the faint light without as though
they had been carved in ebony.

"It is too dark to see the church to-night,"
continued the same voice ; " there are some
frescoes which are said to have merit. We
must come again and see them in the morning,
and then the signor papa can come too."

They were coming up the church  two
shadowy forms in the gloom. Val sat silently
in his corner by the pillar : he did not wish
to be seen. They were the travellers, he
supposed, who had lately arrived at the hotel.
They must have eaten the lately-murdered
chicken and his own fillet, and had evidently
now come out for an after-dinner stroll. He
thought he would wait until they had gone
higher up the church, and then he would slip
out quietly and go back to his omelette.

The two figures stopped close to him  not
ten yards away. He was absolutely invisible
in the darkness, and they seemed to him only
like two indistinct outlines of shadow.

The man spoke once more.

"Forgive me for saying that I am glad that

8 Ptre Gold.

il caro signor japa is fatigued to-night. It
lias given me the delight of this walk alone
with you ! You are so cold to me  so distant.
You English women are so difficult to move.
Yet now in the darkness of this faint moonlight
hour, it seems to me as if you were
tenderer, more kind, and my hopes revive
once again."

Then suddenly Yal's heart gave a wild
throb, and every pulse within him leapt up
madly and tumultuously within him ; for she
spoke  the cloaked, silent woman in the
darkness. She spoke ; and her voice was the
voice of Madeline Abbott !

"You are a flatterer, prince ! " At the very
first breath from her lips, he would have known
that voice amongst a thousand. The rich, low
tones, the gently modulated accents, and then
came the same soft, little under laugh, which
he had so often listened to.

I do not believe half the pretty things
you say to me."

Ah, Maddalena ! how can you not believe ?
It is because you have been surrounded and
worshipped by so many, that so many have
adored you and told you that you are perfect,
and you have listened unmoved ; because you
have never loved  is it not so ? You have
never loved ? "

Never ! " she murmured.

Yal shivered. He was rooted to the spot ;
he did not dare to move ; he would not have

revealed himself to her for an empire, and yet he
was forced to remain and to hear what she said.

You have told me this often," continued
the Italian prince. " Ever since we have been
travelling together I have asked it of you
many times if you have ever loved ? and always
you say never  never. It is true, is it not ? "
he asked it with a sort of hungry fierceness ;
some men are greedily jealous of the past, of
the woman they love ; their heart must be a
white, unwritten page, or they will have none
of it. Such a one was Prince Tornadi.

I have told you," she repeated, a little
wearily. " I have never loved."

And Yal heard it.

"But I  I will teach you how to love!"
murmured the man, passionately ; "it is a
lesson that all can learn, even the coldest, and
you, ]magdalena  you shall be cold to all the
world, but not to me  not to me ! When I
press my lips upon yours, the kisses that you
shall give me back shall be as hot and ardent
as my own. Ah ! do not shrink away ; " for
in the darkness she seemed to draw herself
suddenly back ; "do not fear, I would not
frighten my timid, northern dove ; never will
I dare to touch your beautiful face, until you
yourself say to mee, ' Paolo, I love you.' But
see here, Maddalena, we stand now, with God's
altar before us ; here, in this holy place, I swear
that I will make you my wife. Does a Tornadi
ever break his oath ? "

The violence of his words did not seem to
anger his companion ; she stretched out her
hand to him, though, even to Vai's maddened
straining eyes, it seemed as though she did so
with an effort.

"I do not love you yet, prince," she said,
with a trembling timidity ; " not yet  you
see I am young. I do not understand love,
but I am grateful, and perhaps in time,
when our journey is over, perhaps  ah, give
me time ! "

Ah, yes  I understand you. I will wait,
but you will love me some day. I will speak
of this no more for the present, and it is chilly
here ; the ghosts of all the dead counts of
Albona seem to be abroad in the old church
to-night. My mother is descended from that
family ; perhaps the extinct old race of my
ancestors is stirred in their tombs by my presence.
Come, Maddalena, it is cold here ; let
us go out into the moonlight and the air."

They went out together by the western
door into the pale light beyond, and their footsteps
died away faintly in the distance. Val
stood very still. His heart no longer beat
and throbbed ; it felt cold and hard.

Presently all the echoes of the dim vaulted
roof were startled into wildest agitation, asa
short, bitter laugh rang sharply up from
the solitary man below, and curled in eddying
billows of sound amongst the arches, and upto
the pillars and the long row of clear, stony

windows above. " Ha ! ha ! " rang the human
voice below ; and " Ha ! ha ! ha ! " echoed
the ghostly voices above, till all the heads of
saints and martyrs, fiends and monsters, of
Jewish kings and Christian bishops, seemed
to take up the mocking chorus ; again and
again and again, peal after peal, wave after
wave, each fainter than the last, until the last
weird sound died away again far, far off into
the distance of the gathering night.

And this woman three months ago was to
have been his wife ! Twelve short weeks since
she had protested her love and her devotion
to him, had told him in his turn, that she
had never loved," and that her virgin heart
was entirely his own. And now she was
telling; the same tale over ag-ain to this other
man  to this foreigner, who was infatuated
by her beauty as he had been, and convinced
of her purity, even as he had been convinced
of it. Poor wretch ! poor, deluded Prince
Tornadi ! would he too some time find out
this Circe ? Would he one day be forced to
drink the dregs of the cup of pain and humiliation
which this queen amongst wicked
women would hold out to him with her
cruel and merciless hands ?

He rose up and left the church, and went
back to the hotel. There was a perfect rage
of hatred and indignation within him. He
suffered intensely, but his suffering was of
a more wholesome and manly nature, for it

is better to be deeply slashed once with sword
cuts, than to be lacerated day and night by
scourges of small cords. AVhen he got back
to the inn he met the patron in the doorway.


Your omelette is just ready, signor. Allis
prepared for you, and his Excellence Prince
Tornadi has gone out for a walk with the
bellissima signora, whilst the Milord Anglais
reposes himself in his private room."

'* Tell me," asked Val, with a sneer in his
cold, hard voice, " is not your Prince Tornadi
a rich man ? "

Si, signor  he is very, very rich."

Ah ! I thought so," he answered, shortly ;
he was beginning to see many things more
clearly now.

*' And young and handsome, I suppose ?"

The patron smiled deprecatingly ; the
maid, Liza, standing behind her, laughed outright,
and shook her head, showing all her
white gleaming teeth.

''No, no ; I did not say so. His excellence
is not to say handsome, although his figure is
a fine one  tall and slight. The prince, too,
is no longer a boy,  it could not be expected at
his age that he should be like an Apollo  he
must be now forty-eight or forty-nine years
of age ; but still he is a fine man, no doubt,
though his face is sallow and his eyes  will,
his eyes  they say they never did look
straight ! "

Liza laughed loudly.

All ! he is hideous, that one ! " she exclaimed.
" I would sooner have Mio Bello
Beppo, the goat shepherd, than Prince Tornadi
and all his money."

So it was all clear as daylight ! She was
going to sell herself for his money  the idol
which she worshipped. No wonder that Val
had fancied that she shrank away in disgust
from the embraces of this elderly lover with
the sallow cheeks and the squinting eyes 
whom Liza, the servant girl, would not withall
his wealth exchange for her handsome
Beppo !

Val ate his omelette, and then lie packed his
clothes and turned his back, that very night,
upon the town of Albona for ever. He would
not have slept beneath the same roof as Madeline
Abbott tor anything this world could give
him. He drove away in a shabby, rattling
one-horse vehicle, which was with some difficulty
procured for him, down the steep, rough-paved
street, under the quaint old gatehouse,
with its two towers, and the broken red tiles
at the top of them, over the three-arched
bridge upon which he had so often leant and
mused, and away through the flat une ding-vineyards
across the silent plains, until he
reached the nearest railway station, twelve
miles off", where he came to a most uncomfortable
anchorage, in a dirty station hotel, for the
remainder of the nio-ht.

The jingling wheels of his rickety carriage
had some time ago died away into the silence
of the great plains below  when Madeline
Abbott stood by her father's elbow, and awoke
him out of a slight doze into which the good
gentleman had sunk.

The prince has proposed," she said to him,
curtly.

Colonel Abbott started up.

What ! really f  a hon fide proposal, do
you mean ? Are you quite sure of it ? There
is no knowing what these foreigners are up to.
Some of them wull make hot love to a girl
for ages, and the last thing they ever think of
in connection with her is a wedding ring."

Prince Tornadi has asked me to be his
wife," she repeated, coldly.

'' By Jove ! I'm glad of it ! Of course you
have accepted him  jumped at him ! "

Of course I have done nothing of the
sort."

Wliat!''

Don't be alarmed, papa," she answered,
smiling. " I have certainly not been so
stupid as to fly into my elderly suitor's arms
1 understand men too well for that. You
may do that with a boy, but an old man's
appetite must be kept keen. I have not
accepted Prince Tornadi, certainly, but I
don't mean to let him out of my sight till I
have done so."

Ah ! you mean to play your fish ? "

'' Exactly so. You jut it delightfully,
dearest father."

There was not much pretence kept up between
the father and daughter now-a-days 
their wants were becoming too keen to be
wrapped up in pretty words, as they used to be.

"Well, take care he doesn't get off,"
grumbled the colonel. "You have not been
too successful of late, remember ! "

Was it my fault that Valentine Eyre
chose to reduce himself to beggary ? Poor
Val ! " she added half to herself, with a sigh 
and there was something that was almost a
tear, too, in her dark eyes, for, after all, Yal
had touched her fancy, almost  had she possessed
such a thing  her heart ! " You would
not have had me throw myself away upon love
in a cottage, would you ? "

Certainly not, my dear. That would not
have suited the requirements of your devoted
father, by any means. I only hope this
foreigner has got the stuff all right, and that
our information is correct about him."

I think there is no doubt of that ; and by
the time we have done our Italian wanderings,
I promise you that I shall be engaged to him
fast enough."

I wish to goodness then you would pursue
your ' Italian wanderings,' as you call them, in
some more rational region than this ! Why
on earth can't we go to a decent place  Monte
Carlo, or somewhere like that."

Madeline laughed sarcastically.

My clear papa, I really don't wish you to
exhibit your little peculiarities to Prince
Tornadi so early in the day. He might take
fright, you know ! "

It's all very well for you," grumbled back
her father. " You have got your little game
all cut out for you wherever you go, and a
very exciting game too, I make no doubt ; but
what the dickens is the sport for "hue in a place
like this ? No table dliote, no billiard room,
no public gardens, not even a shojj window to
flatten one's nose against ! "

Well, I must candidly own," admitted
Madeline with a laugh, " that Albona is not a
very fascinating spot ! It is, no doubt, dull as
ditch water ; but Tornadi had been here as a
boy  his mother is descended from the counts
of Albona, and he seemed sentimentally anxious
to see the place again  I thought it as wtII to
humour him. After all, it is only for one night,
and tomorrow, no doubt, wee shall move on to
a more lively place. There cannot be tito
Albans in the world, thank Heaven ! When
we get to Venice, no doubt you can find somebody
with more money than brains to take a
hand at ecarte with you."

I hope I shall, for I am getting awfully
hard up. You must get him to pay all the
bill here again. Tell him my ' remittances,'
that is the right word, I think, have not yet
arrived from England ; if he will kindly pay

this time, I shall settle up with him afterwards.
Something of that kind, you know."

"Oh yes! he will pay fast enough  don't
trouble yourself about that. Tornadi is a
grand seigneur ; he spends his money like a
very prince."

A good quality in a husband, my dear !
He needs a few to counteract his yellow face,
and his squint  eh, Madeline ? "

She turned away with a gesture of disgust.

Bah ! the man's face gives me the creeps ! "
said handsome Colonel Abbott, with a shiver.
How the Almighty can suffer such ugly men
to exist, is a puzzle to me ! I can hardly bear
to look the man in the fice sometimes ! "

I don't want an Adonis for a husband,"
said Madeline.

Well, you won't get one. However, you
have looks enough for two  as long; as it isn't
catching to live with a squint eye."

Don't, papa ! " she cried, quite sharply.

"Why wouhi he harp forever upon the revolting
details of the prince's personal appearance
! She shuddered herself when she dwelt
upon that subject. A vision of Yal in ]his
strong, young beauty, with his broad, well-built
frame, and his frank, handsome features,
and his dark blue eyes  that were wont to
melt into such lovely tenderness as they rested
upon her own  flashed lightning-like through
her memory. Oh, Val ! Val ! lost to her forever
and ever ! and hot, stinging tears surged

up into the wretched woman's eyes, as all that
she had flung away for the greed of gold and
for the love of mammon came back suddenly
before her. But she crushed the better feeling
down within her with an iron hand. Better
feelings lasted, but for a very short time, with
Madeline Abbott  the ruling passion of her
life was hardly ever driven, even for a few
brief moments, from its stronghold.

Val and his beauty, and his pure, steadfast
love, shrunk away into the coldness of the
irredeemable past, and Madeline was herself
again.

I must beg of you to do nothing to attract
the prince's attention to your gambling propensities,
papa ; it would be quite fatal to my
chances if he were to find you out in one of
your wild fits of play, when we get to Venice."

All right, my dear. I'll try and be careful,
and not ' break out ' if I can help it ; but
really 1 have had a bad time of it lately  nota
card have I handled for a month. Perhaps
the prince  "

"The prince hates cards ! " cried Madeline,
very sharply, for on this occasion she had no
mind that her lover should be fleeced beforehand.


Prince Tornadi was no innocent pigeon like
Oswald Power, to be plucked unawares by the
little "ruses" of his future father-in-law. He
was a man of the world, and there was no sort
of wickedness with which he had not been

familiar since his childhood. He would see
through Colonel Abbott's serpent-like simplicity
at the very first glance  Madeline knew this
well.

If I hear you even mention the name of a
card to Prince Tornadi," she exclaimed, angrily,
I will throw up the whole business at once."

All right  all right, my dear, don't get
so excited then. You are so hard on your
poor old father, my darling," he added,
whiningly.

For all answer to which Madeline ejaculated,
Fiddlestick ! " and went to bed.

VOL. III.

AN ALTERED MAN.

NN EYRE lay on her death-bed.
The rain came down softly and
steadily upon the old - fashioned
garden, the October leaves dropped
in wet, brown showers ujon the bosom of the
sodden earth, and the cedar branches clashed
their long; arms to2:etlier in the shivering
autumn wind. All nature had put on the
garb of woe and lamentation. Inside, the
bedroom curtains were partially closed ; a small
fire flickered redly in the grate, and there was
that peculiar hushed sensation  that distinctive
oppression, both of odour and atmosphere,
which characterises a sick-room where illness
has lasted for some time. It was afternoon ;
the hired nurse had crept into the ante-chamber
to busy herself in the preparation of the next
dose of medicine. The curtains about the head
of the bed were half drawn, but two thin, white

Lands lay feebly clasped together outside the
counterpane. A dark figure with bent head
sat leaning forward in a low chair by the head
of the bed.

'' Yal, my dear ! "

Yes, aunt."

Although he had only come the night before,
and at the time of his arrival her mind had
wandered so that she had not known him, yet
she seemed to understand that he must be
with her, and she expressed no surprise at his
ready answer.

*' You are there, are you not ? "

Yes, Aunt Ann."

I am going to die, Yal."

Oh no, dear aunt ! "

How otherwise can one answer those dear
ones, who lie upon their last bed of sickness
before our eyes ? Yal knew that the old lady
was dying, yet he could not find it in his
heart to say so to her.

Yes, Yal ; I am going to die," she repeated
with gentle insistance.

Her nephew was silent.

Yal, where is my child ? " she resumed
presently. " Where is Fenella ? "

"I do not know," he answered, truthfully
enough, but with a drooping head. Once, indeed,
he had known, and yet he had not told
her, because he could not bear to grieve herby
relating to her the story of Fenella's evil
schemes against himself. He had thought ito



"'SrkR

OV ILUMIW

best that the old lady should remain for ever
in ignorance. Yet now that her dying hours
were troubled concerning the child she had
loved and lost, he regretted that he had not
made it his business to discover where Oswald
and his wife had gone when he had turned
them indignantly out of his house in the north.
In the whirlpool of his own troubles their very
existence seemed to have been forgotten by
him. This came home as a reproach to him
now.

Ann Eyre sighed deeply

'* I shall die without seeing her," she murmured.


Val felt genuinely distressed. No doubt
Oswald and Fenella might be traced, and their
whereabouts discovered  in time, but that was
the difficulty which could not be overcome.
There was no time. The old life was ebbing
fast away. Ann Eyre would scarcely see
another clay. It was too late to bring Fenella
to her bedside.

In his heart of hearts Val could not altogether
regret this. When he thought over
Fenella's ingratitude to the old lady, over her
heartless desertion of her, of her cruel silence
at a time when one written line would have
sufficed to ease the frightful suspense which
her benefactress had suffered on her account,
he could hardly be sorry that Fenella was
not to be called upon to reply to the blessings
of a dying woman with the mockery of an

affection which it was impossible that she
could feel.

Presently, she spoke again.

*oval, have you ever heard anything of
Fenella since I lost her ? "

"Dear aunt, I did hear  do not blame
me. I would have forced her to return to
you had it been possible, but I had no power
over her to do this."

What do you mean ? "

I mean that Fenella, when I heard of her,
was a married woman."

Ah ! " she was silent a long time ; a few
tears coursed themselves down the thin white
cheeks.

Is the man she has married a good man ?
Will he be kind to her ? Does he love her ? "
she asked in a trembling voice.

"He is sure to be good to her. I think
he must certainly love her. He can have had
no other reason for marrying her," answered
Val, ignoring the first of her three questions.

Are they well off or poor ? "

I do not think they can be very rich."

Poor Puella ! She always thought she
was of noble birth, but she was in error. I
found out who she was, Yal, although, I
would not pain her by telling her ; perhaps it
was mistaken kindness, but I thought that
the shelter of my home and my lo'e would
always be sufficient for her. 1 have found out
who she was. A foundling deserted by a lowborn

father who had no right to the name,
and by an unprincipled woman who had deserted
her husband  they left her at my door
because they did not care to support her.
Her mother died soon after. I don't know
what became of the man. A sad story, Val,
and I hid it from her ; perhaps I was wrong ;
do not let the man she has married waste
his money in trying to prove that she has
any more exalted origin  the truth would
only be a terrible humiliation to her. Poor
Fenella ! "

Then, once more, Miss Ann spoke to him
about Fenella.

"Promise me one thing, Val  nay, swear
it to me by all that you hold most sacred
on earth  that you will never let Fenella be
in want or penury. All that I have I have
left to you, and you are a very wealthy man.
Out of your abundance I charge you to see
that the child I have loved as m} own shall
want for nothing. If I have forgiven her
fully and freely, so can you, for it is not against
you, but against me, that she has sinned ;
therefore, Val, swear to me that you will
see that Fenella is placed beyond the reach
of poverty."

And Val swore it to her.

That night Ann Eyre died in the house of
her fathers which she had loved so dearly, and
to preserve which intact she had sacrificed the
comfort and the ease of her existence.

Abingdon House became the property of
her nephew. No heir ever entered into his
inheritance with more sorrowful feelings than
did Valentine. In losing Aunt Ann, he lost
his one living relative, and, as he told himself
sadly, the one person who had always been
the same to him in the days of his poverty
as in the days of his wealth. The old lady's
presence and the shelter of her quiet old house
and garden had been the refuse and the solace
of many years of his past life. Now it was
taken from him. Had Fenella not half broken
her heart. Miss Ann might have lived many
years longer, and the old house at Hampstead
would still have been the one place on earth
he could have called *' home." But Abingdon
House without the gentle presence of its mistress
was but a mockery of past happiness to
him. And after that he had followed his aunt
to her last resting place in the parish churchyard,
Val was not sorry to turn his back upon
the sad, shuttered-uj house that had become
his own.

He started forth back to London with a
curious impression upon him. His actual life
was singularly empty and free from the ordinary
ties which bind men and women together.
He had no natural duties  no powerful affections
to guide him ; but singularly enough,
his future life and actions were entirely guided
and directed by the solemn oaths which he
had taken to the dead. It was no open link

to any living being, but the secret chain of
self-riveted fetters which these oaths, first to
Michael Gale, and secondly to Ann Eyre, had
imposed upon him, and which stood to him
in the stead of the ordinary obligations of life
which bind other men down. He dwelt upon
this thought until it preyed upon him to an
unnatural and morbid extent.

He met James Wright in town, not at his
own rooms, but at his club, and heard from
him that he had taken Croxton House in
Middleshire for him. He bouoiit his hunters,
and he went down there with as little delay
as possible. He took up his abode in a large,
empty mansion with seven strange indoor
servants, and eight strange outdoor servants,
not one of whom he had ever met before.
And with him went that same unhealthy
thought about his being tied and bound to
the souls of dead persons whom it was his
duty to consider and to remember above all
living things and people around him. The
idea preyed upon him in an entirely morbid
fashion.

Coupled to this there was a great hatred
of his kind growing up in his once genial
and open soul, together with a scorn and
contempt for women of all kinds, which bid
fair fully to equal the opinions of his late
uncle upon that subject. Altogether, Val was
not all improved in these days, and before long
he began to make a very unfavourable impression

in the neighbourhood in which he had

o

come to take up his abode. As it was known
that he was a rich man and a bachelor, and as
it was shortly seen that he had good horses,
and rode very hard to hounds, the county
gentlemen  hunting squires  men who were
down for the hunting,  and all the chase-loving
people, great and small, were not slow
in leaving their cards at Croxton House, upon
Mr Valentine Eyre. Mr Eyre returned them
by proxy  that is to say, his brougham
drove round to all the houses in the neighbourhood,
and left his cards at the different
hall doors. The neighbours, however, were
not tetchy, and refrained from taking offence
at this method of procedure. They reflected,
and with some reason, that Mr Eyre was
hunting all day and every day, and that he
had neither wife nor sister to perform all the
little social duties of life for him. How,
indeed, is such a man to return visits in the
correct and orthodox manner ?

So they forgave him the cards, and one and
all began to shower invitations to dinner upon
him. Amongst these invitations came one
from Sir George and Lady Armstrong. Yal
looked it over amongst a good many others ;
had forgotten, even if he had ever realised the
fact, that Betty Ormondss sister had married
a Sir George Armstrong, and had certainly no
idea that Betty herself was at the time stopping
under his roof Had he done so, it would

probably have made no difference in his actions.
He refused the invitation, together with every
other of the same kind which came to him.
He made no excuses, and he assigned no
reasons for his refusals ; he simply " regretted
that he was unable to accept " their kind invitations.
After a time people grew tired of
asking him, and got angry with him for his
unsociability. One or two men S23oke to him
upon the subject in the hunting field, remonstrating
with him, and urging him to think
better of it, and to come to their houses.
Val's answer was invariably the same, 

'' Thank sou. I am not going out anywhere.
I am in mourning."

Then some few, Sir George amongst the
number, pressed him at least to come to
lunch, or to drop in to five o'clock tea, and be
introduced to the ladies of their families ! and
then Val would answer, very coldly, 

"I am afraid I must decline. Society and
I do not agree together, and I am not at alla
lady's man."

This naturally gave offence. The new
inmate of Croxton Hall was voted a misanthrope,
a churlish boor with whom nobody
could do anything. The story of his broken
marriage was indeed known to a good many,
and pity had been felt for him in more than
one gentle feminine breast ; but of what use
is pity if a man will not be grateful for it ?
and of what avail is it to after consolation to

one who is unwilling to take advantage of the
kindly intentions of those who proffer it ?
There is nothing that angers people so much
as to find that their amiable feelings are
returned upon themselves, and that the man
to whom they desire to show compassion weill
have none of their sympathy. Yal, too, from
being at first simply cold to his neighbours,
became in the end angry with them when he
began to suspect that they had heard of his
story, and desired to console him for his
sufferings. And so, amidst mutual ill feeling,
the breach widened more and more
between them. He shut himself up in himself;
lived a life of utter loneliness and
solitude ; spoke to no one but his servants ;
lived in two rooms, smoked a great deal,
and read more than he had ever had time to
read in his life before  that was after hunting
hours. Whilst he was out he rode hard, almost,
indeed, as a man rides who desires to
break his neck ; nothing stopped him ; no
timber arrested him ; nor did he ever turn
aside from any " ugly place " against which he
was warned. He gained  if nothing; else 
the reputation of being an absolutely fearless
rider ; and so from the men  who, in these
favoured regions, have all one fetish  he won
a certain amount of respect and admiration
for his prowess in the field, more especially,
as he seemed to bear a charmed life, for in
spite of his reckless riding he came to no

grief, and both he and his horse invariably
came home after the hardest day safe and
sound in wind and limb.

James Wright had not come to stay with
him at Croxton  in fact, another and a better
place for him had arisen. Jim was installed
at Abingdon House, which could not be left
untenanted, and under his auspices the old
house was being put in thorough repair inside
and out. Yal still held to his old idea of
making it his London habitation, and as he
shrank from going there much at present, he
put Wright in charge, much as he had once
put Oswald Power into his house in Westmoreland.
By this arrangement, however,
Yal was left in greater solitude at Croxton
than he had contemplated. The result was
not beneficial to him ; he became more and
more wrapped up within himself ; more suspicious
of all mankind ; more hard in his
thoughts towards those who had injured him ;
and ever the weight of his oaths to the dead
became a heavier and heavier burden upon
his soul.

All this time, under a heap of letters,
chiefly bills and circulars, which had arrived
for him at his old rooms in Clarges Street,
there lay a certain letter which had arrived
there for him the day after his postponed
wedding-day. It was a thick letter, sealed
with red wax, and upon the top of the envelope
was written, ''To be forwarded ; " but as

Val lead dismissed his valet, and had given
directions before leavings Unhand that nothing;
was to be forwarded, but that everything in
the rooms should be left exactly as it was
until he reappeared there, his landlady had
naturally fulfilled his directions, and had not
troubled herself to touch either his letters or
his furniture. The doors of his rooms were,
in fact, locked, and the blinds carefully closed,
and a shower of fine grey dust lay by this
time thickly over every article within them ;
and there, under the dust, lay this particular
letter, and inside the envelope was a small
crumpled note, which had been written many
months ago, and the photograph of a very
beautiful woman. But none knew about this.
Fenella's vengeance, which might have wrecked
Val's married life, had been robbed of all its
poison by the events which had intervened,
and had fallen harmlessly to the ground.

Meanwhile Val continued to live at Croton
House, and Betty Ormond yq miles ofi", at
Foxhall Court, knew that he was there, but
yet never chanced to meet him.

It so happened that, by a series of small
events, she was prevented from driving to the
meet ao\ain for some weeks. The baby, Treat
potentate of the house, was ill. Lady Armstrong
professed herself unequal to the efibrt
of tending him. Betty stayed at home, and
devoted herself to her nephew in her place.
Then she herself caught a chill, and was laid

up with a feverish cold, so that the chance or
the temptation, or whatever it might be to
her, of seeing Yal again, was for some time
denied to her. Once or twice Lady Armstrong-spoke
of him ; she had caught sight of him
at a distance, but he had evidently forgotten
her existence, she said indignantly, and had
grown so boorish, that directly he caught sight
of a lady in a carriage, he turned his back
and rode away from her without looking at
her ! This, to Lady Armstrong, who thought
a great deal of her appearance, and was very
eager to attract admiration, was a very great
offence indeed. She declared that Valentine
Eyre was quite changed from what he had
been as a boy, and affirmed that it was
evident that his money had turned his
head.

You oucrht to remember that he has had a
great trouble, Helena," suggested her sister ;
' perhaps it is because he is unhappy that Mr
Eyre does not care to see people, or to go into
society."

'' Good gracious ! a man can't wear the
willow for ever, because a woman throws him
over ; he ought to be a man, and shake it off.
I have no patience with such nonsense."

But Betty had all the patience in the world ;
she thought she could enter into the hurt and
bitter mood which prompted Val's self-isolation.
And then one day they met by chance quite
unexpectedly in a narrow country lane. Yal

was riding; home from himtino ; it had been a
wet day, and there had been no sport. Hunting
was now the one passion of Val's existence,
he had no other amusement, scarcely any other
thought  certainly no other thoughts that were
wholesome and untainted with an unnatural
melancholy. The violent exercise seemed to
take him out of himself, and to restore to him
for a time the sense of enjoyment of his health
and manhood, which circumstances had well-nigh
destroyed in him. His temper, once so
sweet and equable, was now often uncertain
and unreliable ; but he was never in so good
a temper as dien he came home after a
splendid run, with all his pulses beating exultingly
with the delight of the sport which he
indulged in freely now for the first time in his
life, and which became to him in very truth,
as it is said to be, the " sport of kings."

But after a blank day  a day of no scent 
of tottering about at covert sides, or profitless
cantering up and down that ended in disappointment,
Val was apt to be a very bad-tempered
person indeed. On this particular
afternoon, and after such a wasted day, he
was in the most savage and disagreeable of
all moods. Everything had gone wrong ; all
the morning no fox had been found, and when
at last one had been started, his favourite
hunter had put him down at an insignificant
place by a mere blunder, so that he had lost
his place and been thrown out of the only spin

of ten minutes which had been vouchsafed to
the Catch em Hunt during the whole day.

Val rode home slowly and discontentedly ;
he w-as covered with mud, and his horse was
going short. A fine drizzle fell continuously
; he pulled up the collar of his coat,
rammed his hat over his eyes, and felt that
even hunting was at times a delusion and a
snare.

Somebody," soliloquised Val to himself,
is always asking of the rest of humanity,
Is life worth living ? ' I can't conceive how
anybody can even take the trouble to have a
doubt on such a question. Life in itself is a
burden that every man would be glad to be
rid of ; only one thing can render it valuable,
and if that one thing is lacking, then one mayas
well go and hang oneself ; " and then he
remembered his old fancy concerning the
"Philosopher's Stone," and smiled very bitterly
to himself at the recollection.

Women are all false and despicable ; they
veil bad hearts under beautiful faces which
beguile their victims on to utter ruin ; if a
man is wise he wall keep out of their way."

And as he said this to himself, he came suddenly,
in a turning in a narrow winding lane,
upon a lady driving herself alone in a small
pony carriage ; she wore a brown ulster and a
pot hat, and a veil was over her face. She
drew a little to one side of the road to allow
the horseman to pass, and as she did so, she

raised her eyes and met his, and he saw that it
was Betty Ormond.

Why did his heart beat so wildly ? He could
not tell. For half a second he drew in his
horse, half stopped, half opened his lips to
speak, and then he saw the hot colour rush
over her face, and the downward droop of her
grey eyes. " She is no better than the rest,"
he said to himself savagely, digging the spurs
into his tired horse. He lifted his hat and
rode on.

Alas ! poor grey eyes ! true and faithful
windows of the honest heart that looked out
of them. They went away homewards, half
blinded with a mist of hot scorching tears that
fell down one by one like thunder drops upon
her trembling hands.

VOL. III.

FENELLA SEES AN OPENING.

PITILESS sleet came down all
day long upon the wet streets of
the little town of Laneton. A
few pedestrians under large cotton
umbrellas plodded along the wet flags. A
cart rumbled noisily every now and again
over the rough stoned-paved roadway ; the
two or three little shops opposite ; the draper's,
with its cheap lilac prints and its tawdry artificial
flowers ; the cheesemonger's, strong and
pungent of sawdust and country cheeses, and
sides of interesting looking fat bacon hanging
from every hook on the ceiling, and the
chemist's, with the dusty drugs exposed in
untempting rows of nastiness ; all had been
empty and lifeless all day long. Trade was
slack ; customers stayed at home, and the
Macedonians wisely kept their feet dry and
their money in their pockets, sooner than

venture forti into the sloppy streets under
the ceaseless outpourings of the low, snow-laden
sky.

There was absolutely nothing to be looked
at in Bridge Street, Laneton, this afternoon,
and yet, for the better part of an hour, a
figure has been standing motionless at the
drawings-room window of one of the " genteel "
lodging-houses, looking out into the dripping
street.

Two long French windows, draped in cheap,
coarse muslin curtains ; within, a sofa, two armchairs
and two plain ditto, all in mahogany,
covered with horse-hair. A round table
adorned with a table-cloth of many colours,
a sideboard decorated with wedding-(.ake
ornaments under glass cases, a few cheap
prints upon the walls, a clock which wont go,
and a couple of green glass lustres on the
mantelpiece, whilst freely sprinkled over everything
is a perfect shower of bead mats, red
wool antimacassars and white crochet covers,
testifying to the artistic tastes and industrious
fingers of Mrs Noggs, the landlady, and her
two sprightly daughters ; opposite the windows
are folding-doors, behind which lies the bedroom
that " foes with " the drawing room, and
into which we will refrain from penetrating.

At the window of this truly charming apartment
stands Fenella Power, disconsolately
looking; into the wet streets.

Behind her, lounging upon the horse-hair

sofa, with the bolster thereof propjoecl up endways
behind his head, reclines Oswald, with a
pipe in his mouth and a French novel in his
hand.

Not a word has been spoken between the
two for many minutes. At length Oswald
lifts his arms up over his head and yawns
loudly. At the sound Fenella turns round.

I think you might have gone out and
applied to Rawlins & Co. for that clerkship
again, instead of sitting indoors all the afternoon
wasting your time over that wretched
novel."

My dear girl, I've no more chance of that
clerkship than I have of being made Lord
Chancellor. There are twenty applicants
already, all worthy business young gentlemen,
brought up in this town, with a large capacity
for keeping accounts, and a wholesome dislike
of clean linen, to say nothing of a desirable
deficiency of the letter H to back them up.
Now, can you expect that a needy broken-down
gentleman, who is an utter stranger in
the place, can hope to stand against such
fearful odds ' ? "

You don't seem to take it in the least to
heart that we shall probably starve."

Oswald shrugged his shoulders.

'' I really don't see that I am responsible
even if we do. I trusted to you. There was
nothing you weren't going to do at one time,
and what lias it all ended in ? Here weare,

planted in a dead-alive country market
town, in a couple of dingy rooms, with cooking
that is simply beastly ! It is all your
doing, you know ; and I think I've got the
temper of an angel to bear it as I do."

"Kit wasn't for me," she retorted, with some
warmth; "you might have been 'planted'
in a county jail on a charge of forgery. It
was absolutely necessary that we should go to
some quiet place till we could be sure that all
chance of your cousin prosecuting us was at an
end. As it is, by evading pursuit we have
probably escaped."

We ! ive ! us ! come, I like that ! " cried
Oswald, sneeringly, dropping his novel face
downwards upon the floor and twisting himself
round upon his sofa, into a sitting position.
" Just listen to her ! Who was it who
trumped up the whole business that was to
make a millionaire of me ? Who hunted up
the wonderful ' codicil ' out of the cupboard ?
and who forged the sho-natures as bold as
brass to it, I should like to know ? It's all
your doing from first to last, and a precious
mess you have made of it ! x\s to me, I was
always dead against it. Forgery is an ugly
thing; to meddle with."

If it had succeeded you would have been
glad enough to take advantage of it ! "

But it didn't succeed ! It was a ghastly
failure  a clumsy blunder from first to last."

Why do you reproach me ! " she cried.

stamping her foot angrily. " I did it for your
good."

Because you loved me so much, I suppose
! " he said with a bitter sneer.

Fenella was silent.

There were nothing but recriminations now
between the two. Oswald had lost his faith
in the cleverness of the woman he had married
and although he might possibly have forgiven
her failure had she been tender and loving
to him, he could not pardon the past, now
that she made no secret of her utter indifference
to him. For the collapse of all her plans
of triumph and of vengeance over Val had
made her reckless. She Hung aside all prudence,
and allowed her husband very soon to
perceive that she had no love for him, and had
only used him as stepping-stone to attain her
owen ends  he did not quite understand wdiat
those ends had been ; but at all events it was
clear to him that she must have married him
because she believed that their crime would be
successful, and that he would become rich.

Upon that success she had counted too
securely. She had been in too great a haste
to unite her fate to Oswald's, so that the triumph
over Yal should be hers in very truth.
That Mr Malsham had entered into negotiations
with her  that he had seemed for a time
to believe her story, and to be ready to lend
himself to her fraud  had turned her head.
She had been too certain, and now that failure

and disgrace had overtaken her, her despair
was proportionally great and overwhelming.
Her marriage with Oswald had simply clenched
her misfortunes. She did not love her husband
and the old love for someone else still rao-ed
unabated in the depths of her heart. She
could not be indifferent to Yal ; either she
must hate him desperately, or else she must
love him madly  there could be no middle
course for her. She brooded incessantly over
her misery. She had heard that Val's marriage
had been broken off, and that he had
gone abroad. Beyond that she knew nothing-more
of him. Where was he, she wondered 
how was she to restore herself to his favour
and his notice ? Would he ever forgive her ?
Would he ever smile upon her again ? She
asked herself these questions incessantly, with
a hungry longing for the sight of the man who,
in some fashion had cried so strange an empire
over her  and the more she thought about
Val the more she learnt to despise and to
dislike Oswald. His laziness, his discontent,
his listless indifference, angered and irritated
her unspeakably.

They were very poor. Oswald's fortune
had been absolutely dissipated. Yal, it is
true, had once paid his debts for him ; but
long before that time, the best jart of his
capital had been sacrificed, and now he had
but a mere pittance upon which to depend.
Even with this he was culpably extravagant.

and would often go out and buy expensive
trinkets, for which he had no possible use,
or he would squander the best part of a five-pound
note in standing himself and any
chance acquaintances he might pick up, a first-class
dinner at some hotel or restaurant, returning
late at night with empty pockets, and
sometimes considerably the worse for the
night's festivity, to encounter the reproaches
and the anger of his justly infuriated wife.

They had at first ]pitched their tent in
Laneton, a small market town in the extreme
north of the county of Middleshire, by a mere
chance. Afterwards Fenella chose to remain
there ; it suited their pocket, and also it was
so quiet a place, that she judged rightly they
might here best avoid the chance of prosecution,
which she feared. She would have been
glad if Oswald could have got some employment
here ; but Oswald, who had dawdled all
through his life, was not inclined to bestir
himself at the eleventh hour. It suited him
better to spend his last farthing first, and then
to trust to some lucky chance to rescue him
from actual beggary.

Fenella had, therefore, the fear of starvation
looking her in the face ; and this, added
to the other trouble with which she tormented
herself, made her preternaturally haggard and
careworn. The pretty looks which had once
attracted Oswald had now almost vanished.
There were wrinkles where there used to be

smiles, and pale woe-begone cheeks where the
roses of youth and health had once bloomed.

It may be safely affirmed that, in these
days, Fenella often regretted her heartless
desertion of the kind old lady, who had been
a mother to her.

One day she saw Miss Eyre's death in the
obituary of the Times. A pang of remorse
shot through her heart  a pang, too, of mortification
and annoyance. Miss Ann would no
doubt have left a legacy to her foster child had
she remained faithful and true to her.

How could I know she would have died so
soon ! " said Fenella irritably to herself. " She
might have lived for twenty years longer for
all I could tell ! "

For it was certain that her death had not
benefited Fenella under existing circumstances.
Then too she fretted over the lost
locket, which she had always regarded as the
clue to the recovery of the greatness to which
she had been born. In the hurry of their
departure from Cragstone Edge she had been
obliged to leave the search for her treasure
unfinished. She had intended to have had
the house swept and scoured from top to
bottom, being convince, that she would find
it again if it was properly hunted for. But
one day Val's telegram had come, and a new
agent, sent from J\Ir Gilfillan's bank at Carlisle,
had arrived, armed with powers to instal himself
and his wife in the house, and had turned

Oswald and Fenella very summarily off the
premises. They had had to jack up and to fly,
and the locket, as Fenella imagined, was left
behind. This was a serious grief to her. Altogether,
things were at a low ebb with Miss
Ann's foundling. The blackness of despair
had settled upon her upon this particular wet
afternoon, when we find her again standing
miserably by the window, and looking out
hopelessly into the dripping street of the town
of Laneton. A few reproaches  as told above
on either side between the husband and
wife, then silence again  broken at last by
the clattering sound of a tray being carried
upstairs.

"What's this?" says Oswald, nodding his
head in the direction of the door.

"Tea," replies Fenella, curtly.

Tea ! What the deuce do you mean ?
Aren't we to have any dinner, pray ? " he
cries angrily. "What is the meaning of this
meal ? "

Tea and cold meat," answers Fenella coldly.
You gave me no money ; I couldn't afford
to give you dinner. You must do with this
to-night."

Oswald swears mumbling below his breath.
Enter the landlady, bearing the obnoxious
repast upon a battered tray in front of her.
A metal teapot and milk-jug, neither of them
clean, a couple of cups, a loaf of bread, a piece
of untempting-looking butter and a plate full

of slices of cold mutton. This luxurious fare
she proceeds to set forth upon a table-cloth
which is far from spotless, on the round table
in the centre of the room. Oswald sits by
looking' on with a face of utter disgust and
dismay.

Mrs Noo'o's is dirty and dishevelled, but her
face is beaming; with good nature and amiability.
She asks smilingly of Oswald whether
he would like to have any 'cresses" in
addition to the dainties she has brought, and
upon receiving a grunting denial, suggests
pleasantly that she might perhaps get a few
shrimps, if the gentleman fancied them as a
relish.

Shrimps ! " growls Oswald, goaded almost
to madness. '' Shrimps ! a hundred and fifty
miles from the sea-shore ! Do you want me
to die of typhoid fever, woman ? "

Mrs Noggs looks frightened, and beats a
retreat.

Will you have some mutton, Oswald ? "
asks Fenella cheerfully, drawing up her chair
to the table.

"" No ; I won't eat dog's food ! " he says
angrily. " How can you expect a man to
live on muck like this ? I will go and dine
later at the Station Hotel  they give one a
decent dinner there."

If you can find money to pay for that,
you can find it to give to me for the housekeeping.
We owe Mrs Noggs for two weeks'

bills as it is. You have no right to go and
spend money on dinners for yourself. What
is good enough for me is good enough for you,
and, what is more, you shan't go out tonight
! " she added, looking at him with flashing
eyes.

He began to eat his cold mutton muttering.
When Fenella asserted her authority
he was generally afraid of her, and relapsed
into silence.

Mrs Noggs put her head hesitatingly in at
the door. She carried a paper in her hand.

"The boy has just left the Middleshire
Gazette, ma'am. I thought you might like
to look at it," she said, with a propitiatory
smile, and laid the paper down upon the
table.

Fenella let it lie there some time. She ate
her mutton and her bread and butter uncomplainingly,
and drank the weak, tasteless tea
in silence.

Oswald swallowed a few mouthfuls, then
flung himself back upon his sofa, took up his
French novel again, and lit his pipe. Presently
Fenella glanced at the newspaper by
her side. What possible interest could she
expect to find in a small local paper. Nevertheless,
from sheer weariness, she took it up.
She looked first at ih<i advertisements, wondering
if she should light upon anything that
might suit Oswald. One man wanted an
errand boy ; another a gamekeeper ; another

a hard working curate in a poor district ; a
fourth an assistant showman in a butcher's
shop. None of these things would be likely
to suit Mr Power. Nobody ever seemed to
require a gentleman out at elbows, warranted
to be able to do nothing whatever under the
sun ! Fenella shook her head ; she despaired of
finding an occupation for Oswald. Her only
chance now seemed to be to run away from
him and find occupation for herself As for
supporting him in idleness by the labour of
her own hands, Fenella had no sort of idea of
doing anything of the kind.

But what was she to do ? That was the
puzzle ! She could neither sew nor scrub, nor
teach children, nor give lessons in music or
French  nor indeed do anything which could
in the least recommend itself to her fancy.
To be a companion to an old lady was about
what she was best fitted for. But then, what
drudgery, what dulness, in such a life ! And
now that poor Miss Eyre was dead and gone,
who would give her a reference or a character ?
Things without which old ladies are rather shy
of engaging companions.

Thinking over all this dismally enough,
Fenella turned over the sheets of the small
paper with listless hands. There was a column
and a half headed, "Hunting Intelligence,"
in which the feats and performances during
the past week of the several packs of hounds
in the county were recorded. Fenella took

no interest in hunting ; it was immaterial to
her that the " Faster Hounds had met at
Woodley Gorse on Thursday last, and after
drawing two coverts, had started a fox and
been rewarded with a sharp thirty minutes
without a check ; " nor did she take much
interest in the fact that " the Catchem Hounds,
under the eye of their noble master, had
enjoyed a brisk and smart thing on the
previous Tuesday." She ran her eye over
the page, but failed to be in the least excited
by what she read. Suddenly, however, her
eye was arrested by the following paragraph : 
Croxton House.  We are glad to say that
the above fine old family mansion, which has
so long remained untenanted, has at last been
let to a gentleman who is a true and sincere
lover of sport. Mr Valentine Eyre has taken
Croxton for the winter months, and seems
bent upon keeping up the old traditions of
the place. Mr Eyre is an ardent lover of
the chase. We understand also that he is a
bachelor, and is possessed of large means.
We trust, therefore, that he may prove an
acquisition to the County of Middleshire."
Fenella stole noiselessly from the room, carrying
the Middleshire Gazette in her hand.

She sat down upon the bed in the back
room and read the paragraph over again with
greedy eyes. Her heart beat strangely ; hope
began to dance in her veins. Presently she
laid the paper down and began to think. Her

brain was at work once more ; plans, schemes'
and projects chased each other in a whirligig
through her mind. She got np and ran softly
downstairs and found the landlady somewhere
in the lower regions of the pokey little house.

Mrs Noggs, is there not a place called
Croxton in this county ? "

Yes, ma'am, to be sure. Croxton village,
that's six miles south of Harley Station on
the main line. I know it well, because my
old man as is dead had a cousin as was a
farmer close there some years ago. Did you
know the place, ma'am ? "

I have a friend  a relation, there. How
far off is it from Laneton, did you say ? "

About an hour's journey by rail to Harley,
and then there's a coach takes you right into
Croxton from the station."

Fenella went slowly upstairs again.

Oswald," she said to her husband, " cheer
up ; I see an opening for us yet."

What do you mean ? " and Oswald looked
up sulkily from his book.

I mean that your cousin is living in this
very county  not more than an hour's journey
from here  and  I am not going to let the
grass grow under my feet any more."

What are you going to do ? "

"We are going there  you and I."

To Valentine Eyre ? Are you mad ? I
dare not face him."

'don't be a coward, and leave it all to me.

I see no reason why we should starve or work
when we can live for nothing at somebody
else's expense. I am going to have a good
try for it, at all events. Do as I tell you,
and trust me. I am going to pack up."

By three o'clock on the following day, Mrs
Noq;o;s' " drawing-rooms " were once more tolet,
and a printed card stuck up in the French
window announced to the population of Laneton
the fact that Mr and Mrs Power had taken
their departure.

THE RETURN OF THE PENITENTS.

Once this chance encounter with

- Betty Ormond in the narrow lanes

?Wr\ which surrounded his new abode,

' Valentine Eyre had been at a loss

to understand his own sensations.

He could not tell why his heart had beat so
wildly at the time, nor why he had been conscious
of such an angry irritation against himself
ever since for having passed her by with
the cold bow of a stranger.

For many days afterwards her face haunted
him ; her grey eyes wistfully pleading, seemed
to look at him sorrowfully in the long hours of
the night ; her sweet lips seemed to be ever
before him with their sad droop of regret and
disappointment. Sometimes he asked himself
almost savagely what Betty Ormond was to
him, that he could not get her image out of his

VOL. III. F

nuiul. Was he in love vith lier ? and at the
question lie eoloiued hotly to himself with
shame. AVhat! he who had so Lately Used so
desperately, and uttered so acutely, was it
possible that he already had sueeunibed again
to a weakness which he despised and condemned
?

Irish the thought, he cried to himself indignantly
; and resolved to banish the memory
of Betty's grey eyes resolutely from his mind.
This was not, however, so easy a task as he at
first supposed it to be. Betty had a trick of
clinging in an unaccountable nuumer to his
daily thoughts. Do what he would, he could
not succeed in exorcising the gentle spirit
which his fancy had conjured up, and by-and-by
he began to ask himself whether it had
not always been so  whether once lonii* Jii'
upon a spring morning, on a Westmoreland
lake, her eyes had not assumed a strange
power over his inmost self, which not all the
after events of his life had been sufficient to
obliterate entirely. He recalled to mind
the evil story he had heard against her  tht
proof of her worthlessness which he had seen
with his own eyes, and yet he remember, too,
how that each time he had met her, her face
in its simple purity had seemed to give the
lie to that tale of mercenary heartlessness.
Always he had asked himself,  " How could
it be Betty Ormond who had done such a
thing?"

But for this tale against her would he not
have loved Betty instead of Iuleline ? There
came a time' when he asked himself this
question very plainly, and yet knew not 
answer it, and then he sighed, for the
recollection of her conduct towards Oswald
flashed brick into his mind, and he knew that
the woman who had played so cruel a part
to another man could never win his sincere
respect and affection, however much hei-presence
might unaccountably fascinate his
senses.

It was strange that it never occurred to him
to doubt the evidence that had seemed so conclusive
against her.

Neither did it come into his mind to go and
see her  he heard incidentally that she was
living with Sir George and Lady Armstrong,
not more than three miles from his own house :
and then he recollected that Lady Armstrong
must be her sister, the Helen of his boyhood,
of w4jom Betty had once told him that, owning
all the good things of this world, she was
of necessity a happy woman. This, apparently,
was woman's creed then ! To Ijc ricci
meant to be hapjy. Helen hast acted up to
this sublime faith in her own marriage.
Betty, too, was prepared to carry out the
tenets of the daughters of Babylon. Val
smiled to himself as he thought of it  a smile
of bitter scorn and derision  and then he
winced when he called to mind how, in his

own person, he lead suffered as the victim of
the mercenary greed of a woman. Money,
no doubt, he told himself bitterly, made up
the sum total of a woman's happiness. Give
them dresses, carriages, jewels, fine company
and admiration, and a woman has nothing left
to desire ; her shallow heart is filled to overflowing,
her narrow brain craves for no higher
portion. After all, said Val to himself,
Michael Gale had been right in his estimate of
women. Men should make toys of them 
not strive to turn them into the companions
of their life, nor place their hearts in their
keeping.

As to Val, his money had not made him
happy ; the miser s inheritance hung like a
load of lead about his neck ; day by day his
moroseness, his gloom, his self-abstraction,
increased upon him. The wealth which he
possessed brought him no satisfaction ; he had
no desire to squander it recklessly, extravagance
not being an integral part of his nature ;
neither, on the other hand, had he any pleasure
in saving it ; he did not even, it seemed
to him, do any good to his fellow-creatures
with it. True, his name appeared upon many
lists of charitable objects ; his bankers had
orders to pay handsome sums annually to such
and such hospitals and schools, and other kinds
of philanthropic institutions ; if any one wrote
begging letters to him, he filled up a cheque
and sent it off by return of post ; if any acquaintance

asked him for a loan, he sent what
he was asked for, and tore np the poor man's
I U with scrupulous exactitude. But all
this had no more effect upon his heart than
any other ordinary business transaction. The
self-denial which gives what it can hardly
spare, the loving pity which softens the heart
of the giver and redounds in blessings upon
himself  these were unknown to him. To give
money is all that is possible to a very wealthy
man ; to g-ive loving; kindness and that true
charity of heart which is so infinitely more
valuable, is often beyond his power. Val's
money was a curse to him ; he often longed
to be rid of it ; and yet there was but one
way to do this, and of that way the door
seemed to him to be now closed for ever.

The very thought of marriage was hateful
to him  for had he not proved to himself unanswerably
that women desired his gold, and
had no love for him ; and would he sell himself
for money  would he purchase the false
smiles of a woman's beautiful face with his
wealth, when he was powerless to possess himself
of her heart ? He told himself that he
would never do so. That he would for ever
deny himself the soft luxury of woman's presence,
and all the sweet dreams and hopes of
the love of little children sooner than be once
more the dupe of such a one as Madeline
Abbott.

At this time he wrote often to Jim Wright,

urging him to try and discover where Oswald
and his wife had concealed themselves. His
aunt's dying charge weighed upon his conscience.
Often the thought of Fenella, poor
and struggling for her daily bread, haunted
him in the long, wakeful hours of the winter
night. He did not want to see her again, but
he wanted to send her some practical assistance.
He was certain that Oswald could now
have but a mere pittance to live upon, and he
remembered how idle and extravagant he had
always proved himself to be, and was sure that
he would do nothing towards supporting his
wife. He was anxious, therefore, to make
some fixed provision for Fenella  to settle
something upon her with which Oswald would
have no power to meddle, so that Aunt Ann's
last kindly intentions towards her ungrateful
foundling might be carried out effectually,
once and for ever. That done, Yal had no wish
ever to hear of Oswald and Fenella again ; his
conscience would then be at rest concerning;
them, and he was prepared to wash his hands
of them for ever.

But Jim Wright, who was now his factotum
and his only friend, seemed unable to find any
trace of the woman who was connected with
him in so discreditable a fashion, and for whom
he had once pleaded for mercy at Valentine's
hands.

The days went on, and the New Year was
ushered in by a heavy fall of snow. For

some days the weather had betokened frost,
and the votaries of the chase had shaken their
heads gloomily as they examined the heavy
leaden sky, and shivered in the biting east
winds. Barometers had been examined
hourly, and the countenances of all the
hunt-loving squires in the county had become
more and more dismal and overcast.
On the last day of December the ground had
l)een too hard to hunt ; people had trotted
anxiously to the meet, and then had trotted
home again, filled with disgust and disappointment
at the non-appearance of the
hounds. And then the climax of evil thing-s

o

came upon them. On New Year's morning
they awoke to a white world. There were
three inches of snow upon the ground, and
a prospect of a good deal more to come.

To Yal this was a greater hardship than to
any of his neighbours. The hunting men
betook themselves to a variety of other relaxations.
Those who were young and free from
ties migrated in a body up to town, and went
through a round of theatres and pantomimes
and good dinners at their friends' clubs and
town houses. The county gentlemen swept
their jDonds, and invited their neighbours to
come and skate upon them. There were picnic
parties got up upon the ice, and several
spirited gentlemen started sleighs, with which
they drove the ladies about the country
smothered in furs, and with a great and joyful

jingling of many bells. All this was
voted capital fun, and quite a delightful
variety, from the ordinary hunting business
of life. Besides this, there were several balls
going on ; the hunt ball ; the county charity
ball ; and dances at more than one private
house. Once they had made up their minds
to snow and ice, the hunting people resigned
themselves to the inevitable, and managed to
have a very good time of it, notwithstanding
the elements.

But all this did not touch Val's life. He
knew no one ; had avoided his neighbours,
and refused their invitations, until they had
ceased to take any notice of him. He was
asked to join in no gathering, either in the
evening or by day ; he did not care for skating,
and would not have subjected himself
to the chance of meeting people, if he had ;
he did not even care to go up to London 
everything in town reminded him of last
season  the streets and the shops all brought
back Madeline to him ; the park was eloquent
with her name ; the theatres seemed to be
filled with the memory of her presence. He
dreaded the pain which these things would
cause him, his wound was too fresh as yet,
his love was dead ; but the injury to his self-respect,
the torturing contrast of what was
compared to what might have been, and,
above all, the acute sense of the failure he
had hitherto made of his new life, had still

the power to cause him an infinite amount of
pain. He did not care to run the risk of
stirring up all these things once more.

It followed that, being cut off from hunting,
he had nothing to do. He sat indoors nearly
all day, smoking and reading. He began now
to read more than he had ever read in his
life before ; not light and entertaining books,
but heavy tomes upon philosophy and science,
which gave his brain hard work, and absorbed
his whole mind with an unnatural mental
strain. From the healthy branches of science
he ended by diverging into things which were
less wholesome for him in his already morbid
condition. He got hold of some old volumes
on necromancy. He studied the theories of
the influence of soul over matter, and lost himself
in the infinite chaos of conjecture which
surrounds speculations upon the destiny of
disembodied spirits. He wasted futile hours
in meditating about the unending mystery
which for ever wraps the future world in
its mantle of dark and impenetrable silence.
Save for a morning stroll after breakfast into
the stables, he remained, hour after hour, shut
up all day in a great gloomy library, poring
over these curious old books  lost in a very
labyrinth of misty reasonings, which in some
fashion attained a wonderful power and fascination
over him. Sometimes, after having read
all day, with only short and hurried intervals
for his solitary meals, he would continue his

strange and nnliealtliy studies far into the
silent hours of the night, when every soul in
the house, save himself, had long been in bed
and asleep.

One evening he sat as usual, alone, and
reading. It was about half-an-hour after his
dinner. A reading-lamp stood on the table ;
a large open folio lay before him. His young-face,
once so bright and full of life, was bent
seriously over the open pages. There where
deep lines upon his forehead and around his
mouth. He was aged and altered to an inconceivable
degree. The room was very still.
Heavy, dark red curtains closed in the four
lofty windows ; a red fire burnt on the hearth,
before which a little fox-terrier, his only pet
and companion, was stretched contentedly,
at full long-th.

The thick snow without deadened all sounds,
but Vick's ears were sharp ; suddenly she
pricked them and threw up her little black
nose with a sniff, and a short snapping note of
warning. Yal took ]io notice of her ; somebody
was probably at the back door paying a
visit to the servants. But Vick still kept her
head erect and her ears well up, and presently
she gave utterance to one or two more little
angry barks.

Be quiet, Vick," said Val, turning over a
page of his book.

Yick's reply was a low, but most savagely
emphasised, growl, and she rose from her recumbent

attitude, and stood looking eagerly iu
the direction of the curtained windows.

Val stooped down and patted her white
back.

What's the matter, old lady ? Lie down.
Good doo. What do you hear to-nioht ? "

Vick barked loudly out, and Yal distinctly
heard the sound of slow, muffled wheels upon
the snow. immediately outside the house.

At this moment the hall bell rang loudly,
startling all the echoes of the silent house into
life. There was a sound of hurrying footsteps
from the back passages as the butler and footman
hurried forward to answer the unaccustomed
summons.

Val stood up and listened. Who could be
arriving at Croxton House at this hour of the
evening ? What visitor could conceive himself
to be expected at the cold, inhospitable
doors of the hired mansion, where he had
chosen to immure himself in his miserable solitude
? He heard the drawing back of the bolts
and bars of the front door, the turning of the
heavy key in the lock, and then the sounds of
voices parleying without.

Val opened the library door and looked
cautiously out. The wide, square hall was
but dimly lit ; a hanging oil lamp threw a
subdued radiance over the black and white
chequered flagstones, over which skins of wild
animals were here and there laid out, over
gloomy, family portraits, of a race which were

strangers to him, and over the lower portion of
a vast, wide stone staircase, which disappeared
upwards into the gloom of the passages above.
Across this dreary looking space, Val peered
out of the library door and saw his own menservants
closing about the half-open front door
as though they questioned the right of admittance,
sought by two persons standing
without in the blackness of the nio;ht. Val
could see the snow-covered top of a hired fly,
surmounted by objects also snow covered,
which had distinctly the appearance of luggage.
The fly door was opened, and the two
travellers, a man and a woman, had alighted
and stood apparently requesting to be let
into the house. Outside, the cold blast drove
keen and strong into the open house door,
and the snowflakes came thickly and whirl -
ingle down, gleaming in the faint light with
shining whiteness, against the blackness of
the night.

'* What is this all about ? " said Val, making
a step into the hall.

The group at the door separated ; the menservants
making way for the new comers.

There must be some mistake here," said
Val.

Then the lady, who was small and slight of
stature, and whose face was covered with a
thick veil, came swiftly forward, and sank like
a pull" of swan's-down at his feet.

Val," she said, in a clear, shrill voice, "sou

will not turn us away firm your floor on such
a night as this ! "

Good gracious ! Fenella, can it be you f 
and Oswald ? "

The man, who had not the effrontery of his
wife, had slunk back, somewhat shamefacedly.

Pray, get up and come in ; you must be
very cold."

The butler and footman began to take the
luggage off the top of the fly. Yal drew his
cousin and his wife into the library, and shut
the door. Here, once more Fenella fell upon
her knees, flinging off her hat and veil, and uplifting
a pleading face, filled with emotion, and
trembling hands clasped imploringly together.

*' We have come to give ourselves up to
justice  Oswald and I. Do with us wdiat you
like ; send us to the police station. We are
ready to confess all."

Fenella, get up, pray, and do not talk
such nonsense."

Oswald stood by, hanging his head gloomily.
His wife had instructed him to hold his
tongue, and to look miserable.

We are guilty of everything ; but we
have suffered fearfully. No ; I will not get up
from my knees, not until you have passed
your verdict upon us. AVe have repented
deeply, and we have been punished. Oh, how
we have been punished, for we are starving,
Val  literally starving ! "

The small, fluff' head sank ; the face fell and

buried itself slindderinolv in her hands. Val
remembered his dying promise to Ann Eyre,
and was terribly distressed ; whilst he had
been living in plenty, Fenella had been starving
! Was this how his pledge to the dead
had been performed ? He forgot her heartlessness
and her duplicity, her criminal attempt
to wrest his fortune from him ; he almost
forgot his deep-seated repulsion to the woman
who crouched in so lowly an attitude at his
feet. He was only filled with a great pity
towards her, and with a great self-reproach
that she should have come to beg, almost her
food, at his hands.

He tried to raise her from the floor.

Say you forgive us then ; take my hands
and Oswald's, and say that you forgive us."

Oswald then reached out his hand, and
muttered something inaudible, but which Val
took to mean an expression of penitence for
the past.

He took the hands that had been ready to
ruin him, had they known how, and he forgave
them fully and freely. Then he placed
Fenella in a chair by the fire, and rang the
bell ; ordered food for the travellers, and fires
to be lit in some upper chamber for their
reception. He told them that he had sought
for them, long and anxiously, not to bring
them to justice, as Fenella had said, but to
place them above want and privation, as
Aunt Ann had desired with her dying breath.

And Fenella, as she sat by the fire with
her chin resting in her hand, looked softened
and penitent ; tears stood in her eyes, and she
sighed deeply when Yal spoke about the old
woman who was dead ; and Yal, looking at
her, said to himself that he liked her better
than he had ever done before.

And here we shall remain ! " said Fenella,
triumphantly, to her husband that night, as
they took possession of the luxurious bedroom
which had been prepared for them. " No
more lodgings and weekly bills and pinching
and scrapings ! At Croxton House I mean
to be a fixture. I shall make myself a
necessity to the head cousin, so that he will
never be able to do without me again ! Confess,
Oswald, that your wife is a very clever
woman ! "

A WEDDING FAE AWAY.

P and down the long length of the
simony esplanade crept a lumbering,
crazy wheeled invalid's bath-chair.
The little town of Vieres lay white
and still under the shelter of the mountain
slopes to the north. The blue Mediterranean
was spread like an azure plain, scarce ruffled
by a breeze, to the south. Here and there a
clump of graceful olive or palm trees broke
the straightness of the long line of white sea
wall. And the man in the bath-chair was
dragged up and down  up and down  between
the town and the sea, with his eyes sometimes
fixed upon the mountains and sometimes
upon the waves, but lie saw neither of them.

The face that had once been full of a
hundred active thoughts, of eager plans and
schemes, and of the turmoil of a life of daily
action, was now empty and vacant as the face

of a dead man. He saw things without seeing
them ; greeted people without knowing
them ; spoke of things he had once known
well, and which now conveyed no meaning to
his mind ; and asked questions to which he
forgot to wait for an answer.

For Eichard Malsham had had a stroke,
from which his mind had never recovered
itself. It was almost immediately after Valentine
Eyre's broken-off marriage. It was
said he had been mixed up in some ugly
transaction connected with his wealthy client's
affairs ; that there had been something shifty
which had been hushed up by Valentine
Eyre's good nature, because it would not
bear looking into. These reports got about ;
his credit became impaired ; his friends and
his clients fell away from him ; the damaging
rumours reached his ears, and they preyed
upon his mind ; and then one fine day, in the
prime of life, and in the zenith of his professional
career, the hand of God struck
down Eichard Malsham, and he was smitten
with paralysis. He lost the use of his
legs, and he lost the use of his mind.
The doctors ordered complete rest and change
of air and scene. The junior partner, who
had hitherto been a cypher, bestirred himself
to carry on the business ; his son, Albert, was
turned from a clerk into a partner ; and the
Malsham family migrated to the little town
of Vieres, in the south of France, in the faint
VOL. in. G

but futile hope that the head of the house
might thereby be restored to health. They
had been here now for many weeks, and he
was still no better ; in health, indeed, he
improved ; he now slept well, and had a good
appetite ; but as the body strengthened, the
mind seemed to become weaker. A hopeless
childishness settled down upon him ; a thick
cloud obscured his past, which seemed ever to
grow more and more intense and impenetrable.

Presently his wife and daughter came out
across the road from the hotel to join the
invalid.

He looks better to-day, does he not ? "
said Mrs Malsham anxiously to her daughter
as they drew near the bath-chair ; " and I quite
fancied this morning he was clearer in his
mind."

Bella shook her head ; her mother's eager
endeavours to see the brightest side of her husband's
affliction had something piteous about
their futility. Poor Mrs Malsham ! The incapacity
of her husband meant to her the loss
of everything that made her life worth having.
The solicitor had saved nothing ; his large income
had depended solely upon the flourishing
state of his business, and his private affairs
were found to be in hopeless confusion. Already
the house in Kensington Garden Square
had been let, and the horses and brougham
sold, and sundry other reductions in the family
expenditure had been achieved. Vieres, too,

had been chosen, because it was less expensive
to live at than Nice, or Cannes, or Mentioned,
and the girls were told that they must do
without a lady's-maid, and be content to wear
old dresses for a long; time to come. Bella
bore all this very badly ; she was one of those
people who do not shine in days of adversity.
She was peevish and low-spirited, and inclined
to be angry with her father for bringing so
great a trouble as poverty and exile upon herself
by his illness. Mr Malsham irritated his
elder daughter, too, by perpetual allusions to
some imaginary lover he fancied she possessed.
He was for ever inquiring after this gentleman,
and wondering why she did not marry him.
Poor Bella ! who would only too gladly have
married if she could, felt it an additional
hardship to be persecuted in this fashion by a
semi-imbecile parent. As they drew near the
bath-chair this morning, Mr Malsham called
out cheerfully to his daughter, 

Well, Bella, where is the attendant swain
this mornings ? "

I don't know who you mean, papa."

"Oh ho ! a pretty good joke indeed !
Adhere is our gay and gallant lover ? Don't
blush, my dear  girls ought to have lovers.
An unmarried girl is a burden on her parents.
We are very glad you are going to be married,
my dear  quite right and proper."

I am not going to be married," said Bella,
ill-temperedly.

It is your fancy, Billiard," said his wife ;
the girls are quite happy to stay with us."

Oh ! they all like a husband," persisted the
poor man, with a little chuckling, senseless
laugh. " Bella has got a fine young man, with
lots of money ; and she's a lucky girl, I say,
a very lucky girl ; quite right to leave a sinking
ship, and now her poor father is ill, she shows
her sense by taking a husband of her own. A
sensible girl is Bella  very sensible  very
sensible." Then, after a pause, he shouted out
quite angrily, 

But where is he ? A lover ought to show
some attention to the girl he is going to marry.
If I see him playing the truant, I'll have the
law of him, by Jove, I will ! Where is he, I
say?"

Nobody answered him ; his wife walked on
by the bath-chair, and laid her hand soothingly
upon his arm ; the girls fell back.

This is dreadful ! " said Bella, to her sister.
Heaven knows I'd marry fast enough if I
could, for I can't stand this life any longer.
The dulness of this place is fearful too  there
is nothing to be done in it from morning till
night."

There's a marriage o;oino on in the English
chapel this morning, I hear," said Clementina,
who was of a more contented disposition than
her sister, and was inclined to make the best of
her lot. "An Englishwoman is to be married
to an Italian prince, and they are to go on

afterwards and be married in the church of
San Francisco. I vote we go and look at the
wedding."

Who told you ? "

The chambermaid at the hotel. Come
along, Bella, mamma will stop with papa  she
doesn't want us now. We weill just tell her."

The bath-chair was turning round. Their
father smiled at them in his foolish way. He
beckoned to Bella.

I heard you," he said, shaking his finger
playfully at her. '* You are going to the
church to get married ! And T know who he
is now  he is quite mad, remember  as mad
as a hatter. I always said so, for he is going
to give all the money away to hospitals just fora
whim  all the same, he's a fine young fellow,
and I'll give you my blessing on it. You
might go further, and fare worse, than marry
Valentine Eyre."

Come away, Tina," said Bella, flushing
red, and dragging away her sister by the
hand. " Come and let us look at this wedding,
if you like  this kind of thing will drive me
mad."

The English chapel at Vieres was a sufficiently
cheerless place to depress the spirits
of the most hilarious wedding-party. It was
nothing more nor less than a narrow whitewashed
room, With three large windows down
each side of it, a green baize-covered door atone
end, and a yellow and red circle of painted

o'lass at the other  which was called, out of
courtesy, the east end. Here there were also
a table and two chairs, the tables of the Commandments
and the Lord's Prayer upon the
walls, a strip of red drugget, and a white
wooden railing in front of it. The body of the
building was filled with rush-bottomed chairs,
banded together by strips of wood, so that
when any one moved or sat down on any one
of them, the whole row creaked and groaned
together over the wooden floor.

In this uninviting-looking place of worship
there was some slight and unaccustomed stir
going on this morning. The English chaplain
and the clerk where bustling backwards and
forwards out of the " vestry," which was
simply one corner of the room screened off" by
a green baize curtain ; an old woman was
dusting the front rows of chairs, and a few
spectators were dropping into the chapel at
the further end. Amongst these where a middle-aged
lady and a young girl, both well dressed,
in the latest Parisian fashion  who took their
places near the door.

'' I do call this the most wonderful piece of
luck, Eita ! " whispered Lady Cornelia Fan-share,
for it was she, to her niece ; " fancy
our just stopping here, for two days only, and
coming in for such an entertaining spectacle
as this ! I wouldn't have missed it for the
world ! What a budget of letters I shall be
able to write home about the marriage on

Sunday afternoon ! To think of seeing Madeline
Abbott married after all, really seems too
wonderful to be true."

*' She has very soon forgotten poor Mr
Eyre," said Eita.

My dear ! Four months ! It's quite a decent
time ! Nobody really could be shocked at it ;
besides, he was no doubt a mauvais sujet,
and she was quite right to throw him over. I
always did maintain that Madeline was a
clever girl, and would never throw herself
away."

And this is a good match, then ? "

Oh, capital, first rate ! The Tornadoes are
one of the oldest of the old Lombardy families
and they have married money for three
generations. The last Princess Tornadi had a
large fortune, and this man's grandmother was
the heiress of a Viennese Jew of untold wealth.
He is the only son. and is enormously rich."

"Is he handsome ? "

Lady Cornelia shrugged her shoulders.

'* My dear, what a childish question ! As if
that signified ! No ! I can't say he is exactly
handsome ; but then you must remember that
the prince must be nearly fifty."

Good gracious ! how dreadfully old ; and
Madeline can't be more than twenty-four."


Well, my dear, what of that ? Girls can't
afford to pick and choose now-a-days, or else
they are left to die old maids  like our poor,

dear, foolish Betty, you know. You must
make up your mind to marry a man who is rich,
regardless of his appearance. Girls who are
too fastidious get left out in the cold."

Yes, I suppose so," said Eita, with a
sigh.

Now, Madeline Abbott," continued Lady
Cornelia, " is behaving very well, I consider ;
you could not do better than follow her
example. I shall take you on to Some for a
month before we go home, and, who knows,
you might very easily pick up an Italian nobleman
there too ; only we must be careful,
because they are not all rich. We will speak
to Madeline coming out of the church  the
Tornadoes will give us the best introduction to
Italian society. How surprised Madeline will
be to see us here  sly girl ! No doubt she
thought she would be married quietly at this
dull little place, and nobody would hear of it
till afterwards. But you can't hide yourself
abroad any more than you can at home, and
I shall write a full account of it to all our
mutual friends at home. Hush ! here they
come."

The door behind them opened and admitted
not any of the bridal party, but Bella and her
sister, who took their places quietly behind
Lady Cornelia and her niece.

Gracious ! those horrid Malsham girls,"
whispered her ladyship. " How came they
here, I wonder ? "

'' Don't you remember, Aunt Corney, we

heard that Mr Malsham had had a fit, or a

stroke, or something, and was ordered abroad

for change of air ? I suppose it is at Heres

-they are living."

Yes, yes, I remember ; dear me, how small
the world is ! Don't look round or seem to
know them, Eita  they were horrid vulgar
girls always ; and now their father has lost
his position, there is no object in recognising
them."

A few more minutes of silence in the barn-like
chapel  then the door swung open once
more, and two gentlemen, both evidently
foreigners, entered and walked up to the east
end.

There  that is the bridegroom  the first

o

of the two," whispered Lady Cornelia.

AYhat ! that horrible-looking creature with
the yellow, shrivelled-up skin, and that awful
squint ? " cried Eita, in dismay. " Ugh ! how
can she marry him ? "

Don't be absurd, Eita ; one can't have
everything. I consider her very sensible."

Eita was silent. Her natural instinct  the
instinct of innocent girlhood, which was not
as yet extinguished by the worldly maxims, by
which daily and hourly her aunt endeavoured
to " preach down " the purer feelings of her
heart  was revolted by the spectacle of this
traffic of youth and beauty for money alone.
Not all Aunt Cornelia's teachings could smother

the healthy revulsion of mind with which she
reo;ardecl the sour-faced bridegroom, who now
took his place at the further end of the
church.

There is something attractively romantic
certainly to the youthful feminine mind in the
very name of *' Italian prince." It has a
flavour of the hero of a fairy tale, of the knight
of a romance  music, poetry, large dark eyes,
a tenor voice  things all pleasing the imaginations
of young ladies in their teens, seem to
be connected with him. When Lady Cornelia
had suggested that a second Italian prince
might possibly be found for herself, Eita had
been gratified by the notion ; but when the
hideous reality of Madeline's chosen husband
presented itself visibly before her eyes, she
experienced a shock of astonishment and disgust.
Rita, who had no strength of character
as Betty had, and who was prepared to do as
she was told, and " be good," as her aunt said,
shuddered when she reflected that it might
possibly become her duty and her fate to marry
such a one as Prince Tornadi.

Presently the swing-door was once more
pushed open, and all heads were turned. There
was a rustling of silken skirts, and Madeline
abbott, leaning upon her father's arm, came
into the church. She was simply dressed in
plain white silk, and, save for strings of priceless
pearls round her neck, and the glitter of
diamond stars which fastened her tulle veil,

showed in her attire no evidence of the wealth
for which she was selling herself. She was
white as death ; her eyes and hair looked unnaturally
dark. Colonel Abbott looked nervous
and agitated, but Madeline was perfectly self-composed.
She walked up the chapel with a
firm step, and a head drawn proudly and determinedly
up, and took her place by the side
of the prince.

The marriage service began. Once Madeline
winced  it was when the bridegroom's
fingers placed the ring upon her hand. The
contact of his hand made her shiver from head
to foot. Perhaps she thought of another whoso
lately was to have stood thus beside her  
and perhaps the memory of other fingers that
had stirred her pulses with their caressing
touch, returned to her mind with sickening
vivacity. Be that as it may, she conquered
the passing weakness with a great effort of
self-control, and the ceremony proceeded.

When it was over, the little bridal party
retired behind the curtained-off corner which
served for a vestry, to sign the register. Then
did Colonel Abbott and his daughter seem to
have changed places. The colonel's nervousness
had now vanished ; he became jocund and
hilarious. He shook his son-in-law by the
hand and smote him playfully upon the back.
He kissed his daughter enthusiastically upon
both cheeks, and congratulated her upon having
attained to the happiness of becoming the

prince's wife, and he exchanged countless nods
and winks and private little jokes with Count
Lorenzo, the prince's cousin, who had officiated
as best man upon the occasion. Madeline's
fortitude, on the other hand, seemed to have
completely forsaken her. She trembled from
head to foot ; her shaking fingers could scarcely
grasjD the pen with which to sign her maiden
name for the last time, and when the bridegroom
lifted her veil and kissed her upon the
cheek, she fell back in her chair and all but
fainted away. Somebody produced a bottle of
salts and the bride, after a few minutes, revived.
Prince Tornadi looked anything but
gratified by his new wife's reception of his first
proffered embrace. His brow, was black as
thunder, and he gnawed angrily at the end
of his moustache.

A trying occasion, dear son-in-law," murmured
the handsome colonel, soothingly patting
his daughter's limp hand in that best paternal
manner with which he had so often played upon
poor Val's feelings. " It is such a change to a
young girl brought up as this darling child
has been  so secluded from the contact of the
coarse world. The sensitive mind of a young
maiden, my dear prince ! Think how delicate
a blossom it is. My sweet one's happiness is
almost too much for her."

Madeline saw the gathering gloom on her
bridegroom's brow. She sat ujd and smiled
at him  a smile which came like a pale lifeless

gleam across a white winter landscape.
Heaven only knew what physical agony it cost
her to force that smile upon a face that was
almost rigid with despair. Sheer terror alone
runs: it forth from her. She held out her
hand to him.

I am better now." Her white lips framed
the words in a hollow, voiceless whisper.
*' Do not be anxious, Paolo ; the air will revive
me."

That's right, my dear," said her father,
heartily. "Then give your bride your arm,
Tornacii, and let us be getting on ; we have
the other church to go to now. Courage, my
pet child ! It is a trying thing for a girl to
be married twice over in one morning. You
must make excuses for her."

But certainly, colonel," replied the prince,
the cloud melting from his parchment-like
face, and a smile, almost more hideous thana
scowl, broadening upon his pinched, drawn
features. He leered upon his wife with his
crooked eyes, and gave her his arm, and the
little bridal party came out of the vestry, and
walked down the cheerless length of the chapel
in procession.

No wedding; march run 2; forth its glorious
notes of triumph over Madeline's white-veiled
head ; no bevy of bridesmaids with happy
faces came flutteringly behind her ; no children
cast flowers of welcome under her footsteps.
In an ominous silence, the Princess Tornado

passed out of the English olinpol. nil only no
voice  aiKi that the voice of a mischicf-niaki no-acquaintance
 wished her \o\ as lie went by.

Madeline started as the well known face of
Lady Cornelia, in her Paris bonnet, was thrust
forward, and \\\< peau dc suede gloved hands
forcibly stayed her passage as she was about to
leave the church.

So delighted, dearest Princess, to oiYcr you
my congratulations ! What a surprise, and what
a pleasure to meet our beautiful madeline
again like this upon her wedding-day; and,
the dear Colonel too  I am indeed charmed.
This is Rita Ormond, my niece, Betty's sister,
3'ou kno\\\ And pray, introduce me to your
husband, my dear ! I am positively longing
to know him."

The introduction was gone through. Tornadi
bowed and smirked, and showed all his yellow
fjmg-like teeth, and squinted more palpably
than ever. Rita compared him shudderingly
in her mind to the wolf in Little Red Riding-hood.


We are coming to Rome, Prince. 1 do
hope we shall meet you and sour dear wife,
who is a very old friend of mine, there."

The Prince laid his hand upon his heart and
swore that he should be charmed, overjoyed,
enraptured, in fact, to meet her ladyship again ;
then he ogled Rita with his sound eye, and
with more bows and smiles and hand-shakes,
the bridal party passed out, on their way to

trio cathedral church of Sui Francisco, wlicrc
thu; niarriafc, accordiri<i: to tic rites of the
Catholic (Church, was to })C ioric through
again.

And Ho never so rnucli as looked at me ! "
cried lella Mnlsharn, almost crying with mortification.
" After being (entertained at j>a[)a's
house, and being introduced to poor Val Eyre
by us, and received all sorts of kindness from
us all ! It vx/idd live been a sort of consolation
to mr; to }iav(i shaken hands with a real
princess! but she looked over our hr-ads as if
we had been dirt, although she must have seen
us. I always said she was a nasty, mean, designing
minx."

<f-O-'r

DOMESTIC REFORMS AT Croton.

WEEK had now gone by since
Fenella and her husband had established
themselves at Croxton
House. There was now no question
about their going away, nor any sign
that their visit was not destined to last for an
indefinite period. If a woman who is clever
and determined once gets a firm footing in the
house of a bachelor, the odds are that she will
understand perfectly how to maintain her position
in it. There is, unfortunately, no doubt
that the lords of creation, admirably suited as
they may be to grapple with the outer world,
are by some freak of nature totally unfitted to
cope with the minor details of domestic life.
A large household without a woman at its
head is like a ship without a rudder, and drifts
at its own sweet will whither chance may
choose to take it.

Val's establishment had been (and the unhappy
man knew it, but could not tell how to
alter it) in a condition of absolute chaos. The
cook-housekeeper had had everything her own
way  the prodigality of her nature and the
vastness of her ideas was amply proved by
the outrageous nature of the bills which she
brought weekly into Val's library, and which
he unquestioningly paid. The waste and the
extravagance had been preposterous. The
butler  albeit a worthy man in other matters
had followed suit, so that, although never a
guest sat down at Val's table, the wine in his
cellars disappeared with extraordinary rapidity ;
in addition to this the work of the house was
neglected, the rooms and the passages were
left unwept and untasted, the silver and the
brass remained tarnished, the very windows
were uncleaned ; in fact, Val paid through the
nose to be vilely waited upon and unfaithfully
served. He had been vaguely conscious of all
this, but had had neither the energy to redress
it, nor yet the knowledge how to set to work
about the necessary reforms ; so, man-like, he
had submitted to what he had considered to be
incurable.

But with the advent of Fenella all these
think's beg-an to be chang-ed and altered. The
cook was no longer permitted to order things
into the house ad libitum, and to give away to
her friends the mountains of good food of
which she did not care to make any use. The

VOL. III. H

butler was requested to mark down in a book
each bottle of wine that he took out, and Mrs
Power carefully went over the contents of the
cellar in order to verify his list. She took the
weekly bills into her own hands, and checked
down every item to see that it was not in excess
of what it ought to be. She bullied the
housemaids, and she spoke her mind to the
footman ; the servants began to understand
that somebody was come into the house who
knew how to master them. They did not like
her, but they obeyed her. The house began
to be thoroughly swept and cared for, the
silver was made bright, the windows were
cleaned. Val's meals were served with punctuality
and precision ; and, in short, the whole
establishment became speedily transmogrified
into habits of order and of well-regulated
discipline.

Val was not at all unconscious of the benefit
of these salutary changes. It was pleasant to
come down in the morning to find his tea
ready made ; the silver urn fizzing on the
table ; the toast hot and crisp ; the kidneys
and the eggs ready waiting to be placed steaming
from the fire upon his plate as he sat down,
and Fenella herself in her neat cloth gown
sitting opposite him, and smiling a pleasant
good morning across the breakfast cups, was
by no means a disagreeable feature in the scene.

Val did not care much certainly for creature
comforts ; but no man can be utterly insensible

to such trivial matters as an orderly
house and well cooked food, and he began to
be aware that somehow or other Fenella had,
by her mere presence and feminine activity,
introduced these things into his house. And
he was grateful to her for it. He began to be
glad that she had come to live in his house,
and to understand that there were things
about her which almost redeemed the bad
qualities in her nature which had now and
then come to the surface in her. But as to
Oswald, he was a thorn in the flesh to him.
He had forgiven them both, fully and freely ;
it was in Yal's nature to forgive, and that in
the widest sense of the word. To harbour ill-will,
or even to remember a fault that was past,
was not possible to him ; to forgive meant to
him to forget also ; and, if Oswald had but
chosen, he would have made at once a familiar
friend and companion of him, as though
nothing had ever happened to impair the
cousinly accord between them. But Oswald
could not take the frank forgiveness thus held
out in the spirit in which it was tendered to
him. It is in the essence of a mean nature to
be irritated rather than soothed by the goodness
and forbearance shown to it by a nobler
disposition than its own. He felt ashamed
and humbled in Val's presence, and he hated
him for causing him these sensations. He
owed him a grudge for having, as he put it to
himself, got the best of it in life. Nothing

that Val could do, no kindness, no substantial
benefit that he could show to him, could eradicate
the gnawing envy with which he regarded
him.

He has supplanted me," he would say to
himself; " d  n the fellow! but for him /
should be the rich man and he the beggar ! "
so that nothing that Val could do or say
sufficed to soften the angry hardness of his
heart against him. He showed his feelings
plainly m his manner ; he was surly and ungracious
; he could not look his cousin in the
face, nor take his hand in an honest and
straightforward fashion. Val came to the
reluctant conclusion that Oswald disliked him
personally, and that the less they spoke to each
other the better it would be for all parties.

For the matter of that, Val seldom met his
guests save at meals. The frost continued,
and he spent most of his time, as he had done
before their arrival, over his books in his own
library ; but the presence of other people in
the house, the interchange of common-place
talk during the short hours they met in the
dining - room, had been sufficient to create
a salutary diversion in his mind. Fenella,
too, became an interest to him. He lost
himself in marvelling how she could ever
have plotted a vile forgery in order to ruin
him, or how she could have left Aunt Ann to
die alone in order to work out his destruction
under Oswald's auspices. Her manner to him

was so pleasant, so free from enmity, so cordial
and so frank that he felt his resentment
against her to be melting away, and he often
asked himself whether he had not cruelly misjudged
her.

All this time negotiations were pending for
the settlement of five hundred pounds annually
upon her for her life. Val told her plainly
what he intended to do for her, and Fenella
appeared to be most prettily and effusively
grateful for his goodness to her.

When she was alone with her husband, she
spoke of the gift in a somewhat different
style.

It isn't much," she would say, contemptuously,
" but it's better than nothing."

It's an insult," Oswald would answer
sulkily. " Five hundred a-year from a fellow
who ought to share every penny he has with
me ! How can I be expected to live on a
pittance like that ? "

'* You needn't live on it  we will live on
him, and that will be so much pocket-money ;
besides, I will get it doubled in the course of a
year or two."

"And do you mean to tell me you are
going to Jive in the man's house for years? I
tell you I hate the fellow, Fenella, and I wont
stop here."

He was, at all events, more honest than
she was.

*' Then you may go. I shall remain."

I hate him ! " repeated Oswald savagely.

*'I don't hate him; and here I mean to
stay."

"Oh, you needn't tell me that ; I can see
fast enough that you are fond of him. Why,
you give the chap more smiles in one day
than you have given to me ever since I
married you."

'' He has more sense in one of his fingers
than you have in your whole body," she
answered, flushing angrily.

Oh, very likely ; no doubt you are ready
to fall in love with such a piece of perfection,"
he said sneer ingle.

Don't be a fool ! " she answered him,
carelessly ; but she walked away from him,
not caring to carry on the discussion.

Unconsciously he had hit home. The secret
of her innermost heart had been touched by
his unmeaning taunt. She loved Val. That
love had never died. Eevenoe had for a time
clouded it ; jealousy had blotted it out ; a wild,
helpless rage had smothered and distorted it
into the likeness of enmity and hatred. But
deep down within her the flame had burnt
still  red and lurid for a time, indeed, but
ever ready to burst forth again into a blaze
of devouring fire. After that all her plans
against him had been thwarted and brought
to nothing, and when she had heard that he
was unmarried still and alive, then there had
arisen within her a great longing to see him,

to be near him again, to rush into that temptation
which duty and honour should have
warned her to fly from.

Now, day by day living under the same
roof with him, her will, lawless passion gained
strength, and grew hour by hour with greater
force upon her.

To hear his voice, to meet his eyes  to
breathe the same air was at first sufficient
for her. But as the days passed away she
became less and less capable of controlling
herself, and less content with the silent worship
which she offered up to him. There
were moments, few and far between, dien
she saw him alone. On certain mornings of
the week she sought him in the library to
ask for money for the house-bills, or to take
his directions and wishes concerning sundry
domestic matters. The interviews where, asa
rule, of the briefest and most business-like
character.

One day she entered the library as usual
after breakfast. Yal sat with his elbows on
the table, his head resting on both hands, a
huge volume open before him. He did not
even hear her come in. Yick heard her and
rose from her place on the hearth rug, and
slowly she stretched first her front legs and then
her back legs, after the manner of the canine
race, then she sniffed her little black nose in
the air with a little tremulous movement ;
lastly, she wagged her tail slowly as if indecorous

welcome of the visitor. But Val
never stirred an inch. Even this, the contrast
between the master and his dog, was a
mortification to her.

*' Did he sit like that, I wonder," she thought,
*' when Miss Abbott came into the room to
see him ! "

Aloud she said, 

Val ! "  she called him Val by virtue of
the cousinship.

He started, and looked up.

'' Oh, I beg your pardon, Fenella, I did not
hear you come in."

"So I perceived," dryly.

Is there anything I can do for you ? "

I only wanted to tell you that Maria has
been very impertinent to me."

Indeed ! Who is Maria ? "

The under-housemaid. She is an idle,
untidy girl, neglects her work, and is always
gossiping and chattering ; and when I find
fault with her, she is impertinent. I think
you could easily improve on her. Will you
send her away ? "

"I?" Val looked scared. ''I had really
rather not speak to her."

Do you wish her to remain, then ? "

Not at all, if you think she had better go."

I do think so. Would you like me to
send her away ? "

'eyes, certainly, pray do  if you don't
mind the trouble. You undertook to look

after all these household matters, yon know,
Fenella, and I wish yon to do exactly as you
like. I don't care to be bothered with these
things."

He looked down again at his book, as though
he longed to Q-et back to his rending;. She
watched him for a minute or two in silence.
Then she put forth her hand timid', and laid
it upon his book, and once more she spoke
his name  this time softly, lingeringly, as
though she loved to say it.

'oval."

He looked up again. Fenella stood between
him and the windows ; her face was in
shadow ; the light shone through her crown
of fair hair. There was something very childlike
in her aspect, and something so sad and
so pitiful that Val felt a sudden compassion
for her.

Poor child," he said to himself, " she is
mated to a brute ! " and in his mind he laid
all Fenella's sins to the score of her husband.

*' Val, are you happy ? " she asked him,
suddenly, so suddenly that it made him start.

The question set him thinking. He answered
it, half-absently, following out his own
thoughts.

''Ah!" he said, with a sigh. "What is
happiness ? That is the main question. In
what does it consist % Who attains it ? and
when reached, does not the most coveted boon
turn to dust and ashes between the teeth ? "

All which means that you are not happy,
Yal '? "

Val threw back his head, with a smile. Not
to Fenella Power, the daughter of ig-noble and
disreputable parents, would Valentine Eyre
lay bare the secrets of his heart.

**My dear Fenella," he answered, lightly,
go and give Maria warning. If I can please
you, I am always happy."

She turned jjale. She knew that he cared
for her no more, not half so much, indeed, ashe
did for the little fox terrier upon the hearth-rug,
who came rubbing herself up caressingly
against his les. Fenella watched the animal
with bitter envy, as she saw Val's hand go
down unconsciously and linger lovingly upon
the white and tan back. Aick, thus encouraged,
jumped up upon his knee and licked his face ;
and Val laid his lips upon her head.

His dog is far dearer to him than I am,"
she said to herself bitterly.

** I am sorry if I have offended you," she
said humbly, moving as if to go.

Their Val's generous heart smote him.

No, no ; do not think that, Fenella," he
cried. " I did not mean to be unkind to you.
Only," with a laugh, *' your question was a
comprehensive one. Am I happy, you asked ?
Well ; are any of us happy ? ire you ? "

No," she answered, with a strange earnestness
; "God knows, I am the most miserable
woman upon earth ! "

Val was distressed.

*' Do not say that. If you have had cause
for unhappiness in the past, you have, at least,
a good deal to make you happy in the present.
You have your husband  "

She made a gesture of impatience. Then
she turned back suddenly, and said to him
impetuously, 

Yal, I have never confessed half to you.
I have sinned against you terribly ; but I
wished for your good always. Believe me, if
things had gone on, you would have been far
more miserable by now ; but I always desired
your welfare. There was that letter."

Don't talk about these thighs. I have
done with the subject altogether. I don't
wish to renew it," he said, rather wearily, with
a wave of the hand, as though to dismiss the
topic altogether. He could not quite understand
her ; he thought she was talking about
her plot against him, and the codicil to which
she had forged his uncle's name. He knew of
no other sin which Fenella had committed
against him, and had forgiven her. He was
sick to death of the whole business. But
FeneHa had other thoughts in her mind. The
letter to which she alluded was the one that
lay still Unopened upon the mantelpiece of
his rooms in Charges Street, and which had
never been forwarded to him. Mrs Power was
not very clear about the details of Val's broken
engagement to Madeline. But of oue thing

she thought herself certain ; it must have been
that letter and that photograph that had been
the cause of the rupture between them.

She often longed to know what had happened
; how Val had taxed his bride with her
falseness, and whether she had dared to deny
the evidence of her own handwriting. It had
been in her scheme of revenge upon him that
the letter should reach him on the day after
his marriage. But since that marriage had
been summarily put an end to, the inference
was clear that it had reached him beforehand,
and so prevented his union with the woman
who had played a double part to him. Fenella
could not be sorry for this now. Val, as a
married man, would have been lost to her forever
; Val, as a bachelor, still seemed to her
to be within the power of her influence.

Do me the justice to believe," she continued
in a low voice, " that you have always
been dear to me."

He looked up at her suddenly. Her eyes
were fixed upon him hungrily ; her voice shook ;
a deep colour suffused her face. Fenella's
lawless love shone in her eyes ; and Val saw
it.

There passed between them that electric
flash of comprehension, with which a man and
a woman suddenly read each other's hearts.

Val," she murmured, clasping her hands
together with a pitiful action of deprecating
sadness.

He remembered the shadowy garden at
Hampstead, the gloom under the cedar trees,
the silence of the balmy summer evening,
and Fenella's voice trembling with passion as
she had murmured to him then,  " Yal, I love

He turned away from her with a sickening
of despair. Was this fatal misdirected
love the only one that was ever destined
to be laid at his feet ? Was this mockery
of all that was holy and pure, the only semblance
of woman's affection which he was ever
doomed to taste ? To Yal, whose honour was
dearer to him than life, Fenella's love was like
a poisonous weed. She was his cousin's wife 
had she been his sister he could not have regarded
her with more fraternal feelings. He
tolerated her, rather than liked her ; in old days
he had even experienced for her that sort of
instinctive repulsion which a man, whose life
is wholesome and upright, feels towards one
who loves to wander amongst the tortuous
paths of intrigue and duplicity. Everything
in her character was naturally abhorrent
to him, and the unasked-for love which
she once more allowed him to perceive towards
him, only filled him with renewed disgust and
dislike.

And Fenella, who was sharp enough to see
it, was also clever enough to retrieve the false
step) she had taken by a violent effort of self-repression.


I have always been sorry for what we did,
Oswald and I," she said, quickly turning the
subject into safer channels ; '* it was not perhaps
altogether my fault  it was a great
temptation to Oswald. And you know,"
with a little laugh, " poor dear Oswald is
rather weak  very amiable, dear fellow, but
weak, decidedly ; still we are both sorry
now."

'' I have forgiven it," said Yal coldly, with
his eyes once more upon his book ; "let it be
forgotten too."

She took the hint and left him, and went
her way to give warning to the refractory
housemaid. But there was a bitterness worse
than death at her heart. She saw that she
was scorned. Once ao;ain she had laid her
heart low at his feet, and once again he had
coldly rejected the gift she offered him.

Could such a one as Fenella forgive this
twice repeated offence ?

He shall pay for it yet  and dearly ! " she
murmured to herself, with a dark, evil light in
her cold, hard eyes.

She stood for a moment and looked out
upon the frozen landscape which kept Val a
prisoner, ice-bound, to his own house. There
was no sign as yet of the frost giving. Yet
there were gathering clouds in the west, and
had Fenella known it, there were tokens in the
air that a change was not fix off.

That very night the wind veered round, and

the iron hand of winter relaxed its hold upon
the earth.

And with it, too, the weathercock of Valentine
Eyre's life whirled round once more.
New things were about to befall him.

THE MEET AT Vanstone GREEN.

5vHERE was a great commotion in
Filial] Court. Servants rushed
hither and thither ; doors were
banged; hurrying footsteps pressed
along the passages and staircases ; messages
were sent flying from the house to the stables,
and from the stables back again to the house ;
the butler and the footman and the valet and
the stud room had a bad time of it that
morning ; for over all the confusion was heard
the stentorian voice of the master of the house
scolding, ordering, expostulating, and anathematising,
in no gentle or well-regulated tones.
And all this was because the frost was gone,
and Sir George Armstrong was going out
hunting assail !

He had borne the long frost badly  very
badly. He had sulked and grumbled and
sworn at everything and everybody ; he had

stood fixed for whole minutes at a time
before the barometer, regarding it with a
moody and melancholy abstraction, and tapping
it angrily every now and then with a
heavy forefinger, as though he would dearly
have liked to have smashed it altogether. He
had varied this entertainment by floundering
out into the snow to stare miserably, first, at
the weather-cock at the top of the stable-yard
; and secondly, at the smoke coming
out of his own chimneys ; and on failing to
detect any favourable inclination in the mind
of the wind, he had come in again, cross and
peevish as a spoilt child, to snarl at his
servants ; sneer at his wife ; and, oh, worse
calamity of all, to abuse his daily food with
a persistent bad temper, which refused to be
smoothed away.

But now all at once the wind had changed ;
the ice and snow had vanished, and a genial
moisture descended softly and warmly from
the low, grey clouds into the long hardened
bosom of mother earth. Straightway " the
soul of our Nimrod became soothed and
softened ; his voice once more resumed its
hearty ring ; his face decked itself with
smiles and good nature ; there was a briskness
about his shouted orders, a good temper
about his very oaths, which inspired his
servants with the alacrity of a pleasurable
excitement ; he kissed his wife, tapped the
baby  instead of the weather-glass  under

VOL. III. ' I

the chin with his forefinger ; and, in short,
reappeared once more in his favourite
character, of the hearty, jolly fox-hunting
squire. So little does it take sometimes to
make a pleasant and amiable man out of a
bad-tempered and disagreeable one.

As to Betty she had never, during the worst
of his troubles, been so thoroughly out of
favour with him as the rest of his household,
including his own wife. She had that rare
faculty of knowing how to manage people, and of
making allowances for idiosyncracies of character
in others. Instead of treating his distress
as silly, and trembling at his exhibitions of
temper as did his wife, she sympathised with
him about the weather, and, at the same time,
she laughed at him gently about his impatience
at it. In this way she earned her
brother-in-law's affection and favour.

'* You see," he would say to her, " Helen is
so selfish she doesn't try to enter into it ; but
it's a very serious matter to be having twenty
hunters, and eight or ten idle men doing
nothing, eating their heads off day after day.
It is a great deal of money out of my pocket
every day ; but Helen doesn't seem to understand
that  "

'* Oh yes, she does ; but then you ought to
look upon a frost as a necessary annual risk 
like foot-and-mouth disease to a farmer, you
know. I know it's serious for you, George ;
but when you came to swearing you'd pull

clown the weather-cock, and threatening to
throw your cutlets out of the window last night,
because you said they had been put out of
doors to get cold  why, then you know, I
think Helen was right to be cross with you,
for you were really too naughty  now, where
you not ? "

And the baronet did not mind being scolded
after this fashion by his pretty sister-in-law.

So it was to her and not to his wife that he
brought the first joyful news of the hopeful
change in the atmosphere ; and Betty gave
him back the full extent of her sisterly delight
and sympathy, much to Lady Armstrong's
surprise.

Dear me, Betty, I can't think what
makes you go into such ecstasies over the
thaw ! " said the lady languidly from her sofa.
You seem to have developed quite a passion
for hunting since you have been living here ;
and you really do bolster George up in his
folly in a most injudicious way."

I don't know what you mean by ' bolstering
him up ' Helen ; of course, I am unfeignedly
glad, as everybody who likes your husband
must be, that he is happy again in the prospects
of hunting."

My dear child, what a pity George did not
marry you instead of me ! " exclaimed Helen
sarcastically ; " he really would have suited you
admirably, ill temper and all."

*' Don't be foolish, Helen ! George would

not have suited me in the least ; but if I had
married him, as you have, I should certainly
try to make the best of his many excellent
qualities, and to be lenient to his faults,
instead of ignoring the former and aggravating
the latter as you do ! "

How horridly outspoken you are, my dear
child ! " murmured Lady Armstrong. " Life is
not long enough for the heroics you are forever
going off into. What on earth are George's
faults and good qualities to me, as long as I do
what I like myself? Now do, like a good child,
put off that ugly frown, and come and look at
the box of new sonnets which Madame Parte
has sent me from town. I want you to help me
to choose one."

But here Sir George, in scarlet coat and tops,
came bursting into the room.

Now, aren't you girls coming to the
meet this morning ? What, Helen ! not
dressed ? I made sure you would come ; I've
ordered the pony-carriage for you  it will be
round in a couple of minutes. Are you not
coming ? "

Not I ! I have other things to attend
to."

For half-a-minute Sir George looked very
disappointed ; he was not without a heart, and
his pretty wife's coldness and indifference was
a vexation  scarcely perhaps a grief  to him.
Betty was sorry for him, and when he turned
to her and said, 

'you, at least, will come out, Betty ? " she
answered that she would be ready in a few
minutes.

The meet at Hamstone Green was well
attended that morning. The little triangular
patch of grass that formed the centre of the
village of Hamstone, with cross roads and sign
posts at each corner, being crowded both with
horsemen and with carriages ; everybody was
in a good temper over the renewal of hunting
weather ; congratulations poured forth from
every side ; neighbours, who only met on
hunting days, greeted each other again with
enthusiasm. Glasses of sherry, brought from
some hospitable house hard by, were handed
about from horseman to horseman  there was
a general aspect of joy and good fellowship
upon the countenances of all. Betty, sitting
remote in her pony-carriage, watched the scene
with interested eyes ; many of the people
were strangers to her, yet she knew some of
them, for a good many young red and black
coated huntsmen had been her partners at the
late balls, and now raised their hats with shy
admiration to Sir George's pretty sister-in-law.
Yet no one came up to talk to her. The
groups of horsemen were fully occupied in
discussing the much wished-for change in the
weather, and the chances of the day's sport.
The condition, or want of condition, of their
hunters, after the prolonged frost, was eagerly
commented upon,  everything, in short, present

ted a scene of animation and renewed
vitality.

Betty leant back in the pony-carriage, and
looked at it all  she had no part, save as a
spectator in that gay scene ; and yet she
vaguely looked out for one face, and one form,
amongst the crowd, which as yet she failed to
see there. Her heart, despite all her efforts,
beat a little when she thought of the possibility
of seeing him. And yet  what if she
did ? Would he not pass her by with that
same cold bow, with that half-averted glance,
which was all he had given her when he had
met her alone in the lanes. It was not likely
that he would speak to her now, in such a
public place, and with so many people around
her. Her heart ached as she thought of it.
He might have spoken to her then ; one word
of recognition of an old friend would not surely
have hurt him.

I am nothing to him," she said to herself
very sadly. " Madeline was his whole life and
soul ; without her the whole world is empty to
him. And yet  and yet," she added to herself,
whilst a mist of tears gathered suddenly in
her eyes, " and yet I could have loved him
very dearly."

Then suddenly there came a horse's sharp,
ringing steps behind her, and a voice spoke
her name.

'miss Ormond. Betty!"

She turned with a start ; but it was not

Val's voice that had spoken, and her foolishly-beatings
heart sank down sick and cold ao;ain
within her. And yet it was the face of a
friend that was bending down towards her,
not, certainly, Valentine Eyre's handsome
countenance and dark blue eyes, nor yet
his dark clustering hair, but features small
and insignificant, weak and watery optics, and
straight, plastered hair of a fiery colour.

'lord Warlock! You! How did you
come here ? "

Are you very surprised to see me, Miss
Ormond ? I am staying near here, at Des-borough
Castle, for a day or two. Lord
Desborouo'h has o-iven me a mount, and here
I am to try my luck with the Catchem
hounds ; that is mis history. And you, are
you well ? You are looking very thin, I
think. I half hoped I might meet you today,
as I knew this couldn't be many miles
from the Armstrong. What have you been
doing with yourself? How have you spent
your time ? "

How many Questions you ask at once,"
answered Betty, laughing.

She was glad to see him, and showed her
pleasure in her eyes. Lord Warlock's ugly
face had a charm of its own for her ; his red
hair and complexion, his boyishness and his
insipidity failed to disgust her now as it used
to do in the days when he had pressed her to
become his wife. All that, Betty knew, was

at an end now, and the little viscount's very
deficiencies aroused no other feeling in her
save an amused sense of good fellowship and
friendliness,

Where have you been all this time ? " she
asked him, smilingly.

** Where do you think I was last week ? "
he answered her. " At Greeley Hall, in
Hampshire."

What ! at the Mallets ? Oh ! then you
must have met my sister Eita there ; she
is staying there with my aunt, Lady Cornelia
Fanshawe. They went to stay there on their
return from abroad."

Lord Warlock nodded. If it were possible
for so ruddy a little man to become ruddier,
that process he now underwent.

Oh yes ! I met your aunt and your
sister ; " then, after a short pause, he added
below his breath, with a sort of reverent awe
in his voice,  " she is perfect."

Betty looked up at him quickly.

Who ? Aunt Corney ? "

No, no ; God forbid ! Your sister  Rita''
he spoke her name with a reverent tenderness
 " she is so like you," he added, quickly.

"Is she?"

Eita had never been considered to bear
much resemblance to Betty ; but strangers
sometimes see likenesses that are hidden from
the familiar eyes of those who see us daily.

She is like you in her ways, too," he went

on ; '* so clever and original ; so full of life and
fun."

Kita's travels in Italy must decidedly have
developed her character wonderfully, within
the last few months, thought Betty.

And she is very pretty too  not so pretty
perhaps as you  but then her style is different.
But I can see a great look of you about
her ; and, when she was acting with me in
The Bunch of Roses ' "

Oh ! you acted together then ? "
Yes ! Did she not write and tell you
about it ? It was a little comedy we got up.
The Mallets have a regular theatre, you know,
and often get up private theatricals."
'' And you and Rita got up this play ? "
*' Yes. She was the shepherdess."
And you were the shepherd, I suppose ? "
Well  yes ; " blushing furiously and
fierily ; "there seemed no one else? I don't
look much like a shepherd, do I ? But  Rita
seemed to wish me to take the part."
Oh ! And did Rita act well ? "
Perfectly  but then she does everything
well."

A light began to break in upon Betty. A
smile shone in her eyes, and hovered about
the corners of her mouth.

Oh, Lord Warlock ! Lord Warlock ! " she
cried, holding up a playful forefinger at him.
"I do believe you have been making love to
my sister ! "

Now, come, come  you are too bad ! You
know, Betty, if I had had a chance with you,
I never would have changed."

No protestations, my lord  you are the
most faithless of swains. How can I ever
believe in man again ? "

But she was like you, and your sister, you
see, and that attracted me first ; and then I
found out how nice she was in herself  like
you, you know, only just a little different 
and I wondered, and I thought  Oh, Betty !
should you be very angry ? "

Angry ! wdiy should I be angry ? Have
you spoken to Eita, then ? "

*'No; I would not have done so without
speaking to you first for the world. You
know I never loved anybody before I loved
you, and I shall never feel the same as I did
to you to any girl, not even to your sister.
But, at home, they want me to marry ; my
father says I must, my mother never leaves
me any peace about it. They tell me it's my
duty, but they leave me quite free to make
my own choice ; they say as long as the girl
is well-born and well-bred, they will ask no
more. They are very good about it to me,
and it seems I must find a wife somewhere.
And I like Rita  to begin with, she is your
sister ; and then she is pretty and good and
clever. I have been saying to myself that I'd
sooner marry her, if she will have me, than

anyone else. Betty, do you think I have any
chance with her ? "

He looked anxiously at her. He was not
certain of his suit, this young viscount, who
was heir to one of the noblest names, and the
finest fortunes, of all England. He was doubtful
whether Eita Ormond, any more than
Betty, would consent to marry him. Betty
liked him all the better for his diffidence.
Whilst she paused he repeated his question, 

"Do you think she will have me, if I ask her ? "

Betty thought of Eita, whose mind was
certainly more vain and worldly than her
lover conceived  backed up by Lady Cornelia
and all her exhortations and admonitions
no, it was not at all likely that Warlock
would find himself rejected a second time by
a niece of Lady Cornelia Fanshawe's.

I should say you would have every chance of
success, Lord Warlock," she answered heartily.

And you  will you wish me luck ? "

'' With all my heart. There is, indeed, no
one whom I had sooner welcome as a brother-in-law
than yourself."

She reached up her hand and touched his ;
their fingers met for one instant in a quick
grasp of sympathy.

Rapid as had been the action, soon as it was
over, the little scene had nevertheless not
passed unnoticed.

Standing motionless upon his horse upon the
further side of the little crowded village green,

Valentine Eyre had caught sight of Betty sitting
alone in her pony-carriage. It was in his
mince to come over and speak to her, but ere
he had quite decided upon doing so, someone
else had ridden up quickly behind her and
claimed her attention. Val sat quite still and
watched. It was not yet so long ago, nor had
his own troubles so completely obscured his
memory of the event of last season, but that he
recollected perfectly the on dits of the world
six months ago. He remembered well enough
hearing that Lord Warlock was paying great
attention to pretty Miss Ormond ; that the
Ardencapels were propitious to her ; that Lady
Cornelia was moving heaven and earth to
bring about the match  all this was quite
fresh in his memory. For all that he knew to
the contrary, Warlock might be actually engaged
to Betty. He certainly looked lover-like
enough now.

With a strange and horrible gnawing pain,
the pain of a new and terrible jealousy  terrible
because it was so utterly unexpected  he
watched the viscount bend familiarly and confidently
(as it seemed to him) down over the
back of Betty's pony-carriage ; he watched her
face soften and brighten as she spoke to him,
noted her gentle smiles, her look of pretty interest,
and then, finally, he saw that impulsive
gesture of amity and friendliness when she put
her hand up to touch his, and which he interpreted
as the sign and token of her love.

He turned this horse away with almost a
groan.

She loves him !" he said to himself bitterly.
She loves that crimson-headed idiot  or she
tells him she loves him  for what ? For his
rent roll and his coronet, no doubt ! She is
what I have always known her to be  false
and mercenary. Valentine Eyre, my boy,
if you can break your neck to-day, it will bethe
best thing that you can do with yourself."

He rode away down a side lane, out of sight
of those two faces that still continued in such
maddening proximity to each other.

*' I shall always hope to be your best friend,"
Warlock was whispering to her ; "do you
ever wear my ring, Betty ? "

She drew off her glove and showed it to him.

I have never taken it off. Is it not a token
of our true and earnest friendship ? "

And if you want me ever, you will send
for me to help you ? "

Of course I will."

Then it will make no difference between
you and I, whether your sister is good enough
to take me or no. 1 think I will write to her
to-night."

Do so, by all means."

** I shall wait at Desborou2:h for her answer.
I shall write to your aunt too, of course ; and
then I will ride over to Foxhall on Thursday
morning and tell you my news, whatever it
may be  good or bad."

I think it will be good," she answered,
smiling. " And now you must be off, for here
is the master, and there are the hounds going
off down the lane. Good-bye, I am going home
now. I hope you will have a good day."

She pressed his hand once more, and turned
her ponies' heads homewards, whilst Warlock
trotted quickly away amongst the throng who
pressed thickly together in the wake of the
hounds.

A splendid run had the Catchem hounds
that clay ; a fine old fox started in Hamstone
gorse led them such a dance across country,
as had not been enjoyed for many a day.
Forty minutes of hard riding, and as fast a
thing as could be done. Soon the stragglers
and the half-hearted sportsmen were left behind,
only half-a-dozen or so of the picked
men of the country were left with the hounds.
Amongst these were Sir George Armstrong
and Lord Warlock ; but leading them well to
the front rode Valentine Eyre, going straight
as a die upon his brown horse.

*' That chap rides as if he wanted to break
his neck," said Sir George to Warlock, as the
two came alongside for a moment. " What is
he going; at now ? Good heavens ! he can't m
at that place, there's a six foot drop into a
road ; no horse can do that. Hold hard, sir ! "
he shouted, " you can't get over there  bear to
the right ; for heaven's sake, man, pull up ! "

But if Valentine Eyre heard, he paid no

attention  lie rode on straight for the fence.
The brown horse rose obedient to his hand,
rose, poised high in the air, and then felL

One wild crash, one blinding shock, one
frightful struggle, and then all was still.
The gallant brown horse lay stiff and dead
with a broken back, and Valentine Eyre lay
stretched beneath him, covered with blood,
and senseless.

MARIA SPEAKS HER MIND.

OW is Mr Eyre?"

Not any better, miss, I'm
sorry to say."

The answer brought a grey
shadow of misery into her face. Every day,
now for a fortnight, she had driven her sister's
little pony cart up to the door of Croxton
House to ask the same question every day, to
receive the same disheartening answer.

Do they think him worse then ? " she
asked, a little brokenly. '' Oh, if I could only
see the doctor myself ! "

Dr James, he don't know what to make of
him, miss," answered the butler, respectfully ;
"he seemed so sure at the first when the
master first recovered his senses that he should
pull him through, but now all his remedies
seemed to fail. He only said this morning tome
he couldn't understand the fever lasting;;

that it ought to be yielding to treatment by
now, instead of which he don't gain no ground
at all."

Has he a good nurse ? These hired
women  "

Oh, miss, Mr Eyre has no hired women at
all about him. Mrs Power nurses him herself ;
not a creature goes into his room, save her
and the doctor. She never leaves his side,
day nor night ; her devotion to the poor
gentleman is quite beautiful  he certainly
don't lack care and attention."

Betty looked drearily into space with miserable
eyes that saw nothing of the objects
which they rested upon. A cold, numb sense of
misery lay heavy as lead at her heart. What
could she do for him who lay thus sick and
helpless within that hushed and silent house ?
Another watched beside him  another sat by
his bedside and tended him. Oswald Power s
wife, of whom she knew nothing, to whom he
could scarcely be very dear, since of necessity
she must be to Yal almost a stranger, whilst she
who would gladly have given her life for his,
was forced to remain outside to hear from the
lips of a servant how, day by day, he waxed
weaker instead of stronger, with no power to
stir a finger in the service of that dear life,
that lay thus hovering on the border land of
death.

She turned away slowly from the door,
glancing up sadly as she did so at those

VOL. III. K

closely - curtained windows above, behind
which she had been told that Val lay in his
darkened bedchamber, fighting out his battle
with death.

As she drove away at a foote-pace down
the laurel-bordered drive, she came suddenly
upon Oswald Power, sauntering towards the
house with his hands in his pockets, and a
short pipe in his mouth. Betty had never
spoken to Oswald since the days now so long
ago, when he had been a suitor for Madeline
Abbott's hand ; indeed, she had scarcely exchanged
more than a formal greeting with him
since that other time still more remote, when
she had declined to become his wife. No
thought of this circumstance, however, embarrassed
her now. The great and absorbing
anxiety which weighed upon her heart, overshadowed
every minor consideration of life.
She pulled up her pony and reached out her
hand eagerly to him.

'' Oh, Mr Power, I am so glad to have met
you ! Tell me all about him ; and why, why
does he not get better ? "

Even as she spoke the words, it struck her
that Oswald behaved oddly. To begin with,
he stopped most reluctantly. It was evident
that he had intended to pass her by, when he
found himself obliged to come to an anchor
beside her pony-cart. He lifted his grey
shooting-cap almost surlily ; his answer, too,
was peculiar, under the circumstance.

Really, Miss Ormond, I am not a doctor ;
I can't say why my cousin doesn't get better."

But surely you must know how he really
is ? " she persisted. " Is not your wife nursing
him ? "

Yes, my wife is nursing him," he answered,
with an odd sort of defiance in his
manner. " Have you any objection to that ? "

"Oh no !  oh dear, no ! " She drew back
in pained surprise ; '' but I have come to
inquire at the door every day since the accident,
and one learns so little from a servant.
I felt glad to meet you, because you must
know exactly what his state is, and I thought
you would not mind telling me, as I have
known Mr Eyre a long time, and I cannot
help feeling very anxious about him. The
butler only tells me that he is no better, and
that your wife is nursing him."

The butler tells you exactly the state of
the case, Miss Ormond ; he is no better, and
my wife is nursing him."

She was puzzled. His extraordinary want
of civility to herself, the lack of sympathy
he evinced for his cousin's condition, and the
angry resentment which he displayed at her
questions, struck her as something singular.

*' And you can tell me nothing more, then ?"
she said sadly.

Nothing, I regret to state. Mr Eyre has
the best medical attendance. Dr James is
considered very clever, and he seems perfectly

satisfied that everything is being done that
can be done."

There was something so coldly repulsive
about the way in which he said this, that
Betty felt unable to prolong the interview.

I will call aoain tomorrow," she said.

o .

*' As you please," he replied, lifting his cap
again, and Betty drove on.

Within the house, meanwhile, Mr Crab,
the butler, was speaking his mind to one of
the maids. This happened to be that very
Maria, the under-housemaid to whom, but a
couple of weeks ago, Mrs Power had given a
month's warning. Maria lay under sentence
of dismissal at this very moment. In consequence,
Mrs Power was anything but dear to
her.

Maria was a pretty, fresh-complexioned
country girl, with a good heart and an impulsive
nature. She was giddy and careless
about her work, certainly, but under a mistress
who had been patient with her, and had given
her a chance of improving herself, she might
in time have cured herself of her faults.

Mrs Power had had no patience with Maria,
neither had she given her any time wherein to
amend her errors. She had given her warning
instead, and Maria was to go. Now, as
much as it was possible for one human being
to thoroughly hate and detest another, so much
did Maria the under-housemaid hate and detest
Fenella Power.

When Mr Crabbb, who had a penchant for
pretty faces, and who considered that Maria
had been harshly treated by the new " missis,"
who had set up herself and her reforms over
the household, told Maria that that pretty
Miss Ormond from Foxhall Court had just
called again to inquire for " poor master," and
seemed to be quite cut up like to hear he was
no better, Maria tossed up her chin with a
snort.

And no more he won't be no better, poor
gentleman ! " she exclaimed. " Not as long as
them as has no rio-ht to be there is a meddling;
and a muddling about over him."

Upon being further pressed to explain her
meaning, Maria gave vent to the following
enigmatical and mysterious sentence, 

I means what I means ; and them as can
see as much as Maria Goodge sees can see for
themselves that which I do mean."

This not being calculated to throw much
light upon the subject, Mr Crabbb mildly requested
Miss Maria to state whether she was
alluding to Miss Ormond, to which the damsel
replied tartly, 

'* No, Mr Crabbb ; and it is not Miss Ormond
as I am alluding to, poor young lady ! She is
like to cry her eyes before we have done with
it, that she is. I feel sorry for her, and her
poor young gentleman a-lying on his back
there with only half his senses, with that there
caterwauling, black-hearted she cat of a woman

a-hanging over his bed, and a-doing of him to
his death ! "

"Maria! you are using language as is indiscriminately
detrimental to the character of
a lady, cousin by marriage of our master, Mr
Eyre," said Mr Crabbb, with sternness and
dignity.

No, Mr Crabbb, and that is just what I am
not a-doing; of. I knows what I'm talking; of,
I do ; and had you been me, and seen all the
physic throned out of the window, and all the
poultices chucked out to the chickens, and the
ice that was a-ordered for his poor 'eat all
carried away, just as it came up in the bucket,
all melted away, and never applied to his 'eat
at all, except for five minutes when the doctor
came, you'd say just what I do too,  see if
you wouldn't ! "

Good laws ! " ejaculated Mr Crabbb, aghast ;
you don't ever mean it, do you, Maria ? "

I means that what I means ! " ejaculated
the damsel once more, oracularly.

Now, this conversation set Mr Crabbb thinking
very deeply indeed. All day long he
pondered and turned it over and over again
in his mind, and he being an honest man and
true, his meditations took the following form :

Supposing these vague accusations and hints
dropped by Maria Goodge to be substantially
true ; supposing that Mrs Oswald Power, for
ends of her own (which might readily be
divined), were indeed plotting, by a simple

system of non-fulfilment of the doctor's orders,
to shorten the life of her husband's cousin.
What, in that case, would it become the duty
of him, Zachariah Crabbb, to do ? and what
steps would it behove him to take in order
to defeat her vile and infamous purposes ?
Now, Zachariah Crabbb could in no way answer
these questions satisfactorily to himself.

To begin with, he was a servant of an old-fashioned
class, of a sort, alas ! now well-nigh
extinct. He had a respect for those set
above him by Providence, which was not
easily upset or undermined. His "betters,"
to Zachariah Crabbb, were his " betters " in very
deed  better in mind, and manners, and
wisdom, and morals than he himself. This
was a f\iitli in which he was brought up. To
find out such a ghastly wickedness as Maria
had lightly laid to Mrs Power's charge did
not come easily or naturally to him. He was
quite sure such a thing should not even be
hinted at without the most decided and convincing
proofs. Then, again, even if the thing
were true, who was he to go to ?  to whom
was he to breathe his dire suspicions ? Crabbb
knew, indeed, of the existence of Jim Wright.
He even was aware of his address, and he
was certain that to write to Mr Wright would
be a step which could not be a very mistaken
one. But letters take time, and two days of
posts backwards and forwards might easily
become an irreparable loss of time.

And then suddenly inspiration came to
that honest but slightly obfuscated brain. Mr
Crabbb said to himself that he would be lynx-eyed,
and watch and see for himself what
went on, and that if he were ever so little dissatisfied
with what he saw then, that he would
send the gardener's boy, his own nephew,
with a note straight over to Foxhall Court too



Miss Ormond.

And she'll come fast enough, bless her
pretty face ! He is her sweetheart for sure
and certain, or she'd never come here day
after day with her eyes all filled with tears,
and a-looking so pale and anxious to inquire.
She'd come over at once, I know, and look
after the poor, young chap ! " thus argued
honest Crabbb, all ignorant, as he was, of the
claims of Grundyism.

That evening he questioned Maria again.

Did you really mean it, Maria, my dear,
what you said to-day about the poor master
and Mrs P. ? "

Mr Crabbb, I'm not in the 'habit of eating
my words ! " replied the maiden, grandly.

It's all true then ? "

In course it's true ! "

'' How do you know ? "

Because I've seen, I tell you ! "

Seen what ? "

Seen her a-pouring out the bottles of
medicine and the broth by night out of the

dressing - room window into the kitchen
garden."

AYhat ! every night ? "

'every single night, as Dr James orders
a new prescription."

There was a new lot of medicines ordered
to-day ; they came over from the chemist,
not an hour aro," observed Crabbb, thoughtfully.


Very well then, they'll go out of the
window to-night."

'what time T'

Oh, late  after Everybody is gone to bed ;
about twelve o'clock."

I've great mind to stop outside and
watch," mused the butler.

Well, then, do so by all means, Mr Crabbb,
and you will see that which you will see !
There's a moon to-night, and you'll have a
good view by standing in the shadow of the
wall under the pear tree."

So that night  carefully encasing his portly
person in a long, rough overcoat, rolling a
white worsted comforter many times round
his neck, drawing on a pair of knitted mittens,
and tying a cap with ear-flaps closely down
over his bald pate  Mr Crabbb stole forth
alone, and by moonlight, and took up his
station in a shadowy angle of the kitchen
garden.

Betty Ormond, meanwhile, had gone home
very sad, and also very much bewildered.

Oswald's manner had set her thinking. Why
had he been so ungracious and so unreasonably
irritated ? She could not imagine ! It almost
seemed to her as if he suspected her of
spying upon himself and his wife ; but upon
what ? that was the puzzle ! What was it
that Oswald Power was angry with her for
touching upon ? Betty could not understand.
But that there was some kind of mystery
in his manner and his answers, was absolutely
certain to her. She thought over it
long and anxiously without arriving at any
conclusion.

Oh, if Warlock were only within reach,"
she said to herself with a sigh. But Warlock
was up in London wooing her sister Bit a 
for Bit had returned to her parents' wing in
Bryanstone Square, beaming over with pride
and delight at her position as Lord W\arlock's
affianced bride. There she had encountered
the warm congratulations and commendations
of all her friends, together with the scathing
sarcasm of Ralph and the brats, who insisted
upon calling their future noble brother-in-law
by the opprobrious cognomen of "leavings,"
in allusion to his reception at Betty's hands
last summer. How could Betty summon away
the happy lover in these early days from her
sister's side. She felt that no vague uneasiness
of her own imagination was a sufficient cause
for her taking so strong a step. And yet she
remembered how often he had entreated her

to send for him in any trouble or perplexity,
and she did not forget either that it was he
who had ridden off to her at full gallop to
break the news of Yal's accident gently to her,
with tender words of sympathy and compassion,
lest she should hear the dreadful story
first from careless and inconsiderate lips. To
her dying day, Betty felt that she must ever
be grateful to him for this. For at the first,
it was believed that Yal was killed ; and in
that dark hour of sorrow and dismay, Warlock
had held her hand and murmured words of
pity and comfort with all the affection of a
brother, and more than the tenderness of a
woman. She could not forget this. He would
not even write to Eita, or leave her, until
better news arrived from croton House, and
Val was pronounced to be alive and likely to
recover.

Remembering all this, Betty made up her
mind that in spite of Kita  should a real
necessity arise  she would fulfil his oft-repeated
injunctions, and send for him.

The following morning, when Lady Armstrong's
maid brought her in her cup of tea,
there lay also on the tray a thin, dirty-looking
envelope, with " Miss Ormond " scrawled upon
it in spider-like characters.

Betty looked at it wonderingly.

That is a note, miss, a little boy brought
at a quarter to seven this morning," explained
the maid.

*' Where on earth did it come from ?" she
inquired, turning it over curiously.

Well, miss, the boy said somebody's
butler sent him over with it, so I didn't think
it could be of any importance. Certainly I
wasn't going to wake you at that hour for
such a elinor."

o

Betty opened it. Her eye glanced at the
signature, Z. Crash. She did not think she
had ever heard of the name in her life. She
began to read. Then suddenly her face
changed. She crunched the paper up in her
hand and jumped out of bed.

In an incredibly short time she was
dressed, and knocking at her sisters door.
She scarcely waited for an answer before she
burst impetuously into the room.

Helen, I have just had an extraordinary,
a terrible revelation !  a note has been brought
to me, sent by one of Mr Eyre's servants 
it seems that dreadful woman, his cousin's
wife, is neglecting him  pouring away his
medicine and his food."

Dear me, how shocking ! "

Lady Armstrong said this exactly in the tone
she would have used had she been told of a
massacre amongst the inhabitants of the caribbean
Islands. Her sister's breathless, trembling
words affected her no nearer than that.

But don't you understand that she is
killing him ? He is getting worse daily  he
will die ! " she cried, clasping her hands frantically

together, whilst tears of agony gathered
in her horror-stricken eyes.

Lady Armstrong patted down the soft curls
of her fringe with loving fingers, and then proceeded
to slip on her rings, one after the other.

Really  " she said with a beautiful indifference
to Yal's predicament. " Why don't
they call in the police, then ? "

Betty positively stamped.

Good Heavens, Helen ! are you made of
flesh and blood, I wonder, or are you only a
doll ! " she cried indignantly.

Helen lifted her eyebrows.

My dear child, wdiat is the matter ? I am
sure I am very sorry for poor Yal Eyre ; but
what is the use of all this excitement ? / can't
help him."

Yes, you can  you can ! " she cried excitedly.
"You can help him  you and I together
; we can save him. We can go over
together and say that we knew him as a boy,
and insist upon helping to nurse him. We
can turn that woman out ! "

''Letty, you must be mad ! It is probably
only a trumped-up tale to begin with."

*' No, no ; it is true. I know, I feel, that it
is true. Yesterday, when I met Oswald Power,
he was so odd. I was convinced that there
was something wrong ; and now I know it,
and you will come with me, Helen, will you
not '{ Dear Helen, you must  you will ? Oh,
say you will ! "

She sank down upon her knees by her sister's
side, and wound her arms about her neck. She
was past caring whether or no her secret would
be laid bare ; for was not Val's very' life
dependent upon the success of her prayers !
But no prayers were able to penetrate through
Helen's triple armour of coldness and hardness
and selfishness.

My dear child, you really are demented !
I will certainly not go on such a quixotic
errand ; nothing would induce me."

Then I shall go by myself."

'alone? into a bachelor's house! Why,
people would say you had no character to
lose."

For a moment she was silent ; her colour
went and came ; she seemed shaken by some
strong inward emotion. Then, with a forced
calmness she said, very quietly, 

Very well ; then I know what I shall do,"
and turned and softly left the room.

VALS Sick-room.

OU met her driving away ? You

were very civil to her, of course ?"

'* I don't know about beinor

civil," grumbled Oswald, sulkily.

"But, of course, you told her that your

dear cousin was going on famously, and would

soon be quite well ? "

I told her nothing of the sort. I said
that he was worse."

'' Oh, what a fool you are ! " cried Fen-ella,
angrily striking one hand sharply into
the other ; "I wonder if I shall ever be able
to teach you common sense ! Here am I
doing all I can for your interest, and you
haven't the sense to play up to me in a little
matter like that."

They stood at an angle of the passage, in a
window that looked over the wide, wintry
park-land without. Fenella looked angry,

Oswald looked sulky. He stood for a few
moments, staring moodily out of the window,
with his hands in his pockets. Presently he
said shortly, 

Fenella, I don't like this business. Mind
you, I'm not squeamish as a rule, and heaven
knows that I have no cause to love my cousin,
who has done me out of my uncle's inheritance,
and who thinks to make up for it by
dealing out charity to me in a niggardly
fashion, as if I were a pauper. If I could get
back what ought to be my own, Heaven knows
that I would. But this  this  it seems tome
it is  criminal."

She shrugged her shoulders disdainfully.

You poor, weak fool ! " she muttered,
you have no pluck and no strength of
purpose. What is it you are afraid of ? "

Don't you think that by systematically
disobeying every order the doctor gives you,
throwing away the medicines, destroying
more than half the food, neglecting every
single direction that you are charged with,
and still persisting in nursing him solely
and entirely by yourself,  don't you think
that  that if  things go wrong  suspicion
will fall upon you ? And your conduct might
be called by an ugly name."

Bah ! How can suspicion fall upon me ?
Whenever the doctor comes he finds me
administering medicine or food ; the ice is
upon his head ; the bandages are all in order ;

and the patient lies calm and apparently resting.
No living being can prove that the
same thing does not go on all the time ; the
medicine bottles are regularly emptied ; the
nourishment disappears in the right proportion."


But the window out of which you empty
these things ? "

Is on a side of the house, as you know,
Where not one of the servants sleep. It looks
into a corner of the kitchen garden where the
gardeners hardly ever go. There is a sort of
wild tangle of over-grown shrubs, into which
everything drops, and is soaked up instantly
into the damp earth."

But you might be watched ? "

'' Pooh ! Who would watch me ? The
servants believe in my devotion to Val
firmly. I overheard Crabbb telling that Miss
Ormond to-day, when she called, that I
nursed his master most devotedly. I leant over
the bannister to listen to what he said to
her."

''ButYal himself  surely he is not always
unconscious ? "

Nearly always ; and if he revives at all,
I am always there by his bedside. I give him
a spoonful of broth or something in a medicine
glass. He does not know wdiat it is. A little
lemon and water or something equally innocuous,
and then his mind wanders again,
and he knows nothing and nobody. By the

VOL. III. " L

way, Oswald, that Miss Ormond, who, it
seems, was once a friend of yours  was
she ever a great friend of your cousin's ? "

They knew each other as children, I
believe."

But was he ever in love with her ? "

' Not that I knew of Why ? "

He rambles on about her for a quarter of
an hour at a time sometimes ; it's Betty !
Betty !  her name is Betty, is it not ?  till I
get quite sick of the sound of her name."

"It must be accidental  he can never have
known her well after he got the money ; he
was running after Madeline Abbott from the
first."

Fenella was silent. Her jealousy ever on
the alert where Val was concerned, had fastened
greedily upon this new object. A dark light
was in her small, mean eyes. She desired that
Val should not recover. She was even doing
her very best that he never should recover,
because he had spurned her love, and she had
sworn to herself in her blind rage, that he
should never give to another the love which
he had twice refused to her ; and yet, whilst
nourishing so black a scheme of vengeance
upon him, she was still capable of feeling a
mad jealousy of the girl who came every day
to the door to inquire after him, and whose
name was so constantly upon poor Val's fever-parched
lips.

As the husband and wife stood there whispering

their evil confidences, Maria, the housemaid,
passed along the passage. Fenella gave
her some trifling order ; the girl answered
sulkily, and scowled at her.

'' What makes the girl look so black at
you ? " asked Oswald.

I gave her warning. I suppose she cannot
forgive me for it," she answered carelessly.
She is your enemy. I would be careful of
that girl if I were you."

Oh, she is going soon ; besides, her duties
lie quite at the other side of the house, and
she is as stupid as an owl. I am not afraid of
her I But I must be going back. Will you
come into the room and see him ? "

Not I ! " he said quickly, with something
like a shiver. " I would not go into that room,
not if you were to pay me a hundred pounds ! "

Gracious ! how chicken-hearted you are ! "
she answered with a careless laugh, and left
him.

Valentine Eyre lay motionless upon his bed ;
his eyes were closed, his face was deadly pale
save where two bright fever patches glowed
like fire upon his cheeks. His head, which
had been very seriously injured by his fall,
was swathed in white bandages ; he presented
altogether a ghastly and a pitiful appearance.
Now and then his lips moved and gave forth
vague and indistinct muttering, rising; occasionally
to louder utterances. Fenella stole
softly up to the bed. She gazed down upon

his prostrate form with a strange mingling of
love and hatred ; but there was no tenderness,
no gentle, womanly pity in her eyes  only the
glow of a fierce love that was quenched by a
still fiercer hatred.

He might have loved me, and he spurned
me ! and how Heaven has given him into my
hands," was the burden of her constant thought.
And so strangely perverted was this woman's
mind, that there seemed to her to be no crime
in what she was doing, nothing but the legitimate
retaliation for the evil that he had done
to her. It was not for the money that would
come to her husband ; not for the wealth that
she would share with him, that Fenella was
determined to " leave Yal to nature," as she
put it, that is, to let him die for want of care.
This was the reason she gave to Oswald the
bait to his covetousness and greed of gold,
which she knew well how to hold out to her base-souled
husband. Fenella herself cared nothing
about Michael Gale's money ; what she cared
about was to wreak her vengeance upon the
man whose coldness and indifference to her
had distorted her nature. She had tried once
to ruin his fortunes, and once again to wreck
his happiness  both these attempts had failed,
and now opportunity had once more come to
her. A man with a fractured skull so seldom
recovers ; fever comes in to weaken and exhaust
his constitution ; if he should die, there would
be small wonder ; if he were to recover, indeed,

it would be almost a miracle. Why, then,
should, that miracle be wrought, so that he
might live and be happy with another woman,
and forget that Fenella Power existed ? And
if he were to die, who could say that it was
her fault ?

Thus she argued to herself  and thus she
persuaded herself by slow degrees ; being no
actual Messalina, but only a woman of ungovernable
passions and of blunted conscience,
that she was doings no wrongs, and that in all
probability Val would die whatever she did,
so that it was no crime to leave him to the
fate which it was more than likely all the
doctors in Great Britain would not in any
case be able to avert.

She bent over Val's bed, gazing at him with
strange fixed eyes, in wdiicli yearning was
mingled with hatred.

Something possibly in the magnetism of
her evil glances made Val stir uneasily. He
opened his eyes, and a faint gleam of recognition
stole into the dulled pupils.

Are you feeling better ? " whispered his
nurse.

His lips moved. She bent her ear to catch
what he said.

Is she coming[ ? " was what he murmured
faintly.

Who ? "

Send for her  do you understand ?  send
for her. I don't care what she has done to

others. I love her, and I must see her before
I die."

Feiiella's face grew livid.

Who is it ? " she repeated, with a suppressed
fierceness. *' Who is it that you love ? Tell
me her name."

But the momentary gleam of understanding
had already faded. His eyelids dropped again.
He began to ramble incoherently about his
childhood  his mother  his tasks at Mr Malsham's
 about a hundred other things that had
no interest for Fenella. She moved away from
his side. It was time for a draught of some
medicine to be given to the patient. She took
the bottle and poured away exactly the right
quantity into a small jar which she kept under
lock and key in a cupboard, into which she
replaced it carefully. At night that jar would
be emptied out of the dressing-room window.
Then she glanced at the clock  it was nearing
the time of the doctor's afternoon visit. She
began to make her preparations for him. She
placed the ice behind the patient's head, resettled
his bandage, and poured a few spoonfuls
of milk between his lips. Poor Val
seemed easier after these attentions, and it was
these spasmodic half-hours of good nursing
that kept him alive.

By-and-by the doctor came, felt his pulse,
and shook his head, because he found the
temperature was still no lower and the bad
symptoms unabated. He asked many questions

of the quiet-faced lady who seemed to
him to be so admirable a nurse, gave more
directions to her and ordered fresh medicines,
and then he took his leave, promising to look in
again the last throat night. No sooner was
Dr James well away in his dog-cart down the
drive, than Fenella carefully removed the ice
from off the patient's head, and left him to lie
alone and untended, soon to toss feverishly
from side to side of his bed. Meanwhile she
went and sat by the window, and thought
about him.

Who was it that he loved and wished to
see before he died ? she asked herself over
and over again, with the most horrible tortures
of jealousy gnawing at her heart. It could not
surely be Madeline, now Princess Tornadi.
Who then was it ? Was it then that pale-faced
girl whose name had so often been upon
his lips, and who came day by day to ask for
him. Fenella knew at her heart that it must
be her.

"But she shall never get him  never!"
she said to herself wildly. " He shall die herein
this room, in my arms. His last words 
his latest breath  shall be mine. Have I not
suffered enough for him ? Shall I forego this
last reward of my love ? And when he is dead,
then I shall be at peace from my torture !
As to Betty Ormond, she shall never see him

adam.

Friends, TO THE RESCUE.

IM WEIGHT was getting uneasy.
Three letters now had he despatched
to his friend and patron at Croxton
Hall, and all three had remained
unanswered. The last, in particular, had
specially required an answer. Mr Wright was
at Abingdon House, where he was superintending
the careful repairing and painting of
Aunt Ann's ancient mansion. Jim was by this
time developing quite a genius for house
decoration  indeed, it seemed to him that he
had only now discovered his vocation in life ;
it suited him better, and was a far pleasant
occupation than copying law deeds. But,
although Jim's taste was certainly admirable,
and Val had given him carte blanche to do ashe
liked at the dear old Hampstead house,
there were certain occasions upon which he
was obliged to refer to headquarters for advice.

One of these occasions had now arisen, and
Jim had written to Yal upon the subject first
one letter, then another, and yet again a third,
still more urgent than the others  everything;
was at a stand-still with the work  and still
there came no answer from Croxton to his
repeated appeals for fresh instructions and
directions.

Now this, argued Jim to himself, was very
unlike Yal's usual habits. Jim had always
found him scrupulously business-like in his
dealings ; and particularly careful concerning
his correspondence. That Val should thus
neglect to reply to three letters running, filled
him at first with surprise, and then, as the
days went by, with anxiety.

Something; must be wrong; with Val. Jim
had conceived an affection for his patron,
which was absolutely romantic. Whatever
sentiment lodged in that narrow insignificant
frame, and whatever tender feelings floated
through that sandy-thatched head, were all
centered upon Valentine Eyre ; he loved him
devotedly and unselfishly ; his word was law
to him ; he believed him to be the best and
wisest of men, and he hated, with a deadly
hatred, those who had injured him, and caused
him annoyance. It is love such as this that
takes easy fright for the loved object. That
his letters should remain unanswered was
enough to cause Jim nightmares of apprehension.
" If I don't get a letter tomorrow

morning, I'll go down to Middleshire myself,"
he said to himself one day.

That same afternoon, being in a sort of club
reading-room, which he had joined in the
ancient town of Hampstead, he took up idly
a sporting paper, a week old, and his eyes
lighted upon the following paragraph : 

Serious Hunting Accident.  We regret to
say that Mr Valentine Eyre of Croxton House,
Middleshire, met with a serious accident whilst
hunting with the Catchem hounds on Friday
last. His horse fell at an unusually big place
and broke his back, rolling over his rider as he
did so and inflicting severe injuries to the
head, which appears to have been struck by
the animal's forefoot in his dying struggles.
Mr Eyre lies in a critical state at Croxton
House, although hopes of his ultimate recovery
are still entertained. We are glad to hear
that the unfortunate gentleman is in good
hands, Dr James, of Dantrey, being in daily
attendance ; whilst his sick couch is watched
with affectionate anxiety by his relatives, Mr
and Mrs Oswald Power, who fortunately happened
to be staying in the house at the time
the accident occurred."

Now, when Jim Wright had read through
this paragraph, he sprang to his feet in a
state of great agitation. That Val should belying
in danger was bad enough ; but that he

should be nursed by Oswald Power and Fen-ella
was fifty times worse. In a moment Jim
seemed to grasp the whole situation. Val unconscious
and helpless, scarce expected to live
and Fenella unscrupulous and base-minded,
hanging: over his bed with that same evil look
of cunning perchance in her eyes, which he had
seen in them at Cragstone Tower when she
was learning how to forge Michael Gale's signature.
Jim Wright knew nothing about Fen-ella's
unholy love that had darkened into a
cruel thirst for vengeance upon its object ; but
this he did knows that should Yal die intestate
 and he knew that he had made no will 
Oswald Power was his heir-at-law, and would
recover his uncle's inheritance in toto. This,
to Jim's mind, was a sufficient incentive to be
productive of evil to Yal. Possibly he exasperated
Fenella's wickedness ; but then he
knew her to be the daughter of his own mother,
and he believed that the child of the woman
who could leave so good a man as his father,
and then desert her own child, must he capable
of any iniquity.

The nine o'clock express from Euston that
night saw Jim Wright safely seated in a second-class
carriage bound for Middleshire.

o

On his way through London, Jim had had a
few moments to spare ; he had used them not
in his own service, but in Yal's. He had gone
to his old rooms in Clarges Street, and had
fetched away a whole pile of letters ; principally

bills and circulars, which had lain there
unheeded ever since Val had gone away in
that last fatal day of July. Jim did this
because it seemed to him that should his dear
friend die it would be wise to leave no unopened
papers or letters belonging to him which
might fall into the hands of his cousin and his
cousin's wife. He tied the letters up into a
fat parcel, and put them into his travelling
bag. And that was how that letter, directed
in Fenella's handwriting;' and containing a certain
scrap of paper and a certain photograph,
found its way at last into the house of the man
to whom months ago it had been addressed.

That same day Lord Warlock had been
courting his Kita at Bryanstone Square. The
drawing-room was the usual scene of their
overtaking. Warlock had an unconquerable
dislike to the little back study, from causes
which he did not care to state too particularly,
but which Eita probably guessed. By common
consent the study was avoided, and the 
was given up to the lovers in the
morning. Eita, who was fully conscious of
the matrimonial prize which she had secured,
and was determined to be " sensible," as her
aunt said, was, nevertheless, not quite invulnerable
upon the subject of her lover's former
devotion to her sister, nor had she been able
to forget entirely the events of last season.

The brats and Ealph  who, having been
plucked in his last examination, was now

mooning about at home doing nothing  took
care, with their habitual refinement of sentiment,
to keep these recollections alive.

Ealph was particular to inquire politely
every morning after the health and spirits of
Lord Leaving's."

I hope that his lordship is well this morning?"
he would say with mock ceremony. "I
trust that the noble ' Leaving-s ' is recovering
his beauty and good spirits ; and I hope, dear
sister, that you are successful in pouring in
the balm of consolation and the oil of comfort
into that bleeding and wounded heart ? "

The brats were still coarser in their fraternal
allusions to the past.

There was a young girl who said 'Yes,'
When asked by a lord to embrace,

But he who thus kissed her

Had been snubbed by her sister.
Who didn't admire his face,"

was the favourite doggerel rhyme invented for
the occasion by these young fiends of torment,
and chanted by them in various keys and to
divers tunes up and down the house. Also
sarcastic remarks of a withering nature were
cast at her in a blighting manner, such as 

Who couldn't get a lover of her own, and
was obliged to put up with other people's
leavings ? "

Who hall got a beautiful little red-headed
Cupid all to herself ?  all to herself, mind ! "

Or, '' You never had a marchioness clambering
up the nursery stairs after you ! or
going down on her bended knees to beg you
to save the life of her dear, carrots-headed
poppet ! "

Now, on the whole, Kita, having been used
to the brats and their ingenious system of
torture all her life long, bore all these attacks
with great fortitude ; but there is no denying
that they rubbed upon a sore spot, and were
sometimes rather trying. But then she had
her compensations. In the mornings, before
lunch, before her mother had left her bedroom,
Rita had her viscount all to herself in the
front drawing-room, and during these morning
hours it was as much as his place was worth
for a brat to venture to put his nose inside
the door. These mornings were very agreeable
to Rita, for she was pleased with her
lover. Warlock was attentive and affectionate
 spoke his admiration plainly, gave
her handsome presents, and was quite devoted
enough to make her oblivious of that previous
episode in the family history which she would
fain have had forgotten and buried away
for ever.

On this particular morning Rita, in a well-made
dark serge dress, looked fair and sweet
enough to please any mau. She vvas sitting
with her lover on the sofa  his arm was
round her waist, and their hands were locked
together. There came a knock at the door ;

the pair started asunder, guiltily, both getting
red in the process.

Enter the footman bearings a telegram on a
silver salver.

Your servant, my lord, has just brought
this round from your house."

Warlock opened and read it. The footman
left the room.

This is from your sister," said Warlock
presently, after a pause.

"From Betty ? " lifting her eyebrows in
surprise.

Yes ; here it is ; you can read it."

He gave it to her.

Kita was redder now than before, and her
hands trembled a little as she held the
paper.

I am in trouble. Will you help me? If so,
come down here at 011 ce," was what the 
said.

What does it mean ? " said Rita, rather
faintly and turning pale. " Why does she
telegraph to you like this ? "

Then Lord Warlock took his love's two
hands into his, and looked straight into her
eyes.

Rita, darling, you know that I was once
very fond of your sister ? "

Yes. I know."

But it's all at an end long ago, and I love
you now, and no one else. Do you believe
me {

'' Yes," she said again, turning red and
white.

*' Well, then, you won't misunderstand me,
will you, when I tell you that I look upon her,
and shall always do so, as one of the best and
dearest of women  like a dear sister, in fact,
as I hope she will become soon in reality."

Yes," said Rita once more.

'rand I promised Betty once, Rita, that if
ever she was in trouble, and I could help her,
that she was to send for me. Now she has
sent, what am I to do ? "

He looked at her anxiously. He wanted to
know what manner of heart had this pretty
little bride of his, whom he knew less well, and
had taken more on faith than he had her
sister. For a minute or two Rita was silent ;
she pouted a little, which made her look pretty.
She played with her rings, and fidgeted with
the gold chain of her watch. She was, in truth,
fighting out a little battle with herself  should
she give way to her jealousy and fly into a
passion, and declare that he should not
go to her sister, or should she be " sensible,"
and keep) her temper and be sweet to
him ?

Fortunately Rita's better angel prevailed.
She looked up at her lover with a smile, and
put up her hand timidly upon bis coat sleeve.

*' Of course you must go," she said pleasantly.

I don't know quite what can be the matter
with Betty, and why bijou are more necessary

to her than any of ns, and I lioie letting you
go away from me, but  "

But you are the dearest little darling in
the world ! " cried the young man, taking her
in his arms and kissing her with a greater fervour
than he had ever before shown to her.

And so Eita reaped her reward ; for ever
after that Warlock loved her far better, and
believed in her implicitly.

So that evening, by the nine o'clock train,
there went down also into Middleshire a young
viscount, with red hair and a very good heart,
to the rescue of the sick man who lay helpless
and semi-unconscious at Croxton House, in the
hands of his enemies.

VOL. iir. M

ZACHARIAH Crabs LETTER.

OW, as a matter of course, Lord Warlock
and Mr James Wright found
themselves at eleven o'clock at
night standing side by side, after
the express had moved on, upon the almost
deserted platform at Dantrey Station. The
viscount had remembered at starting from
Euston to telegraph for a fly to meet him, to
take him over to Foxhall ; the ex-clerk had had
no such forethought  in point of fact, it had
never occurred to him to do anything else but
to trudge upon his own feet along the four miles
of country lanes that lay between the station
and his destination. Jim had only once been
down to Croxton, and he required a few directions
for his guidance. As Warlock was superintending
the carrying of his portmanteau to
his fly, he overheard Jim inquiring of the porter
which way he must fro for Croxton House.

Warlock knew, of course, that it was at
Croxton House that Valentine Eyre lived.

He turned round sharply, and looked attentively
at the shabby little man who stood under
the faint gleam of the station lamps.

You must take the first to the rio-ht, then
the second to the left, then keep bearing
on to the right again for about a couple of
miles or so," the porter was laboriously explaining
to him, when suddenly Lord Warlock
struck into the conversation.

You must do nothing of the sort ; that is,
sir," with a courteous bow to him, "if you
will do me the favour to allow me to give
you a lift in my fly. 1 am going on to
Foxhall, and must pass the very gates of
Croxton. I shall be very glad to drop you
there."

Of course Wright accepted the (jliVr gratefully
; and the two men, wide as the poles
asunder in all points save one  their unconscious
union in the same mission set off together
through the darkness of the February
night.

You are going to Croxton, sir," said Warlock
presently, as the fly rumbled on slowly
over the rough road; "perhaps you can tell
me how Mr Eyre is ? "

Indeed, sir," answered Jim, who was of
course ignorant of the rank of the good
Samaritan who had come to his rescue, "that
is the very thine 1 have come down here to

find out. Mr Eyre, sir, is the best friend I
ever had ; and I never heard of his accident
till this afternoon, when I happened to sec
an account of it in the papers. I was horribly
shocked, and I am very anxious."

I was there at the time," said Warlock ;
and seeing that his companion was much
moved and upset, he proceeded to give him
an account of what had happened. " But,"
lie said, in conclusion, "twenty-four hours
after he was picked up, the doctor had good
hopes of his recovery ; and I trust that you
will find him progressing satisfactorily by this
time."

Jim shook his head.

"I am afraid  very much afraid, sir. The
fict is, there are other things which make me
anxious."

''He has every attention and care, I presume.
Are not his relations staying with
him ?  his cousin, Oswald Power. I used to
know him once."

"That is the very thing that makes me
anxious," cried Jim.

And then because his heart was full, and
because his new friend seemed to be sympathetic
and interested in Yal, he poured forth
suddenly all his fears and suspicions concerning
the likelihood of false play at the hands of
the woman who had constituted herself his
nurse.

Good Heavens ! " ejaculated Iord Warlock,

considerably taken aback by these startling
remarks ; '' but such a thing is impossible,
surely. You will find you are mistaken, 1
hope. No woman could be capable of such
things as you suggest ! "

"You don't know the woman, and I do,"
was Jim's answer.

Afterwards, when Warlock had deposited
his companion and his bag safely at the iron
gates of Croxton House, and was being driven
on again by himself, a sudden flash of comprehension
came into his mind as he thought
over what he had just heard. Was tld> the.
danger which Betty feared ?  this the trouble
she was in, and out of which she had so
urgently prayed for his succour ? And was
it in her mortal aoonv for her lover's very life
that she had entreated him to come to her :

Warlock went to Foxhall Court in the certainty
of a cordial reception from all its inmates.
His engagement to Eita had rendered
him at once a member of the family, and a
member to whom everybody was anxious to
be as civil and agreeable as possible. Therefore,
when he thus unexpectedly arrived at so
late an hour, he found that he was welcomed
with delight by his future relations. The
baronet grasped his hand heartily, with loud-voiced
and joyful greetings, and Lady Armstrong
smiled her sweetest at him, even insisting
upon proving her sisterly feelings by
opening up her smooth cheek to be saluted.

He was pressed to take every sort of refreshment,
entreated to draw nearer to the fire,
and overwhelmed with questions and wonderment
as to the why and wherefore of this
sudden and unexpected visit, although, as
Sir George said, " As long as we have got you,
it doesn't much matter wdiat made you come ! "
And then Helen was full of inquiries concerning
the young sister, who now stood high in
her good graces.

And how is dear Eita ? How is she
looking ? Well, of course ! women always look
their best when they are happy, and she is a
happy girl. Warlock. And you will find hera
dear, sweet wife, I know."

Helen could talk sentiment very prettily
when there was a suitable occasion for displaying
it.

I am sure of that," answered the viscount,
shortly, and then he glanced at Betty.

All this time he had not had a word with
her. She had sat in the background, unable
to say to him all that was burning in her
heart, and that had made her send for him.
Warlock noticed that she looked ill, and that
she seemed restless and excited. She exerted
herself to join in the family talk with a cheerfulness
which was forced and unnatural. The
hour was late, and it was not long before
Helen rose and wished her guest good-night,
and summoned her sister to accompany her
upstairs.

J

Of course you will sit up and smoke with
me," said Sir George to Warlock.

He was lighting Betty's candle for her in
the hall.

Of course I will," he answered, cheerfully,
casting a look of despair at Betty as he
spoke.

Helen was already half way up the stairs.
Sir George was jutting out the drawing-room
lamps preparatory to migrating to the smoke
Betty saw her opportunity, and
whispered to him rapidly,  -

Don't go to bed ; wait up in the smoking-room
; I must speak to you to-night, however
late it may be."

He nodded, and wished her g-ood-nio'lit in
his usual voice.

Betty thought her brother-in-law would
never go to bed that night. Her bedroom
was exactly above the smoking-room, and as
she sat up waiting through the long, slow
minutes of the night, she could hear the
murmur of the voices beneath her  an interminable
drone of never-ending sound. She
knew quite well that Sir George was telling
yarns ; it was his voice that chiefly spoke.
Warlock was apparently only an attentive
listener. The baronet, of course, was recounting
his hunting experiences ; all the big runs
of his existence were being told over for the
benefit of his guest ; how he had taken that
fence, on old Rocket : how that little chesnut

mare of bis, he sold last year at Tattersalls,
had just nipped over that awkward stile out
of Lime wood copse the very first time he had
her out, and made nothing of it ; how Punch
had led the field last Thursday, and Lady
Godiva had cleared the Dantrey brook at its
widest the year before last in the famous
March run, when not another man in the field
could follow her ; and so on, and so on ! The
experiences of past and present seasons being
all jumbled uj) together, and the feats of sold
and gone horses proudly recorded in the
same breath as the more recent achievements
of the animals now standing in the
stables.

Betty knew exactly what was going on, as
well as if she had been sitting in the smoking-room
below, instead of in her own bedroom overhead.
She had heard all these tales many
times over, and she knew that Sir George,
once on his favourite theme, would continue
to talk until he had talked himself hoarse.
There was nothing for it but patience, and so
she waited on, and felt very sorry for Warlock.
At last, when it was close upon two o'clock,
she heard, to her relief, the grating of chair
upon the parquet flooring of the smoking
room, which told her that her brother-in-Jaw
had at last come to an end of his confidences.
She opened her door cautiously, and listened.
She heard Sir George's voice in no modulated
tones in the hall below.

s
f -

to

What ! going to have another pipe ? Upon
my word you are a chap to sit up ! Why,
you beat me. Well, do as you like  Liberty
Hall here, old chap ! You know where to
find your room ? Very well then, we will go
round the first thing after breakfast and have
a look at Brown Bess. I'm veris anxious
about that off foreleg, and shall be glad to
hear what you think of it. Good-night."

Then came retreating footsteps and distant
hangings of doors, then all was still.

Betty gathered up her dress and ran swiftly
downstairs.

At last ! I thought he was never g-oing;
to bed."

And you have sat up all this time. Oh,
Betty, what can be the matter ? " He flung
away his pipe and made her sit down. " Why
have you sent for me ? What am I to do for
you ? "

Lord Warlock," she cried impetuously, " I
know that you have guessed my secret, and
I am past caring that you know it. I love
Valentine Eyre. For God's sake help me to
save his life."

He is in danger, then ? "

Yes, he is in a terrible danger  read this."
He took a letter from her hands and read.

Honoured Miss,  I make so bold as to
address you, knowing as you takes an interest
in poor master (which I hear is reciprocated,

as he is for ever a-saying over your name in his
deliriums), and I think some one as cares
about him ought to interfere, as the persons
as is a - nursing him isn't playing on the
square, but throws his medicines and food
away by night, and disobeys the doctor's
orders, so that it's no wonder he gets no
better but worse. I have only lived a few
months in Mr Eyre's service, as have all of us,
and I don't know any of his friends, or would
not trouble you, and if I was to speak to the
doctor, who would take a servant's word
against a lady and a gentleman ? All I ask
you to do is to come and nurse him yourself,
and you would soon see he'd poet better, and
there s not much time to be lost, as I fear it
will be soon all over,  Your humble servant,

Zachariah Crabbb,

Butler.

Pes.  I have heard say that Mr P. would
get all Mr Eyre's money if he was to die 
which may the Lord forbid."

Lord Warlock read this letter through with
deep attention. When he had finished it he
only said, 

Has Helen seen this ? "

I read part of it to her."

"She ought to go with you," said Warlock.


'' Yes, but she will not. Helen is terribly
selfish, and she will not put herself out. She

talks pout impropriety, and all sorts of rubbish,
and she has not forgiven him for declining
her invitations, and refusing to call. Lord
Warlock, won't you help me ? "

He was silent for a few minutes, putting together
the letter he had just read with the
things which his companion in the fly had also
told him.

You do not laugh at me, nor tell me I am
mad and destitute of right feeling and modesty,"
cried Betty, almost hysterically, looking appeal -
ingiy at him.

Good heavens !  no. How can you think

It?"

Have I been wrono- to send for you ? "

No, you have been perfectly right. I will

ride over to Dantrey the first thing in the

morning, and show this letter to the doctor.

Cheer up, Betty, things will be all right now.

The first thing is to turn these people out of

the house."
'' And then"
And then you shall take this woman's

place by poor Eyre's bedside."

Can it be done, do you think ? "

'* Yes, for I will go there with you. How

can anybody object ? Am I not your

brother '{ "

FEN ELLA AT BAY.

hind
and
Gear
out

OED Wedlock seemed to have

stepped all at once out of boyhood

into manhood. Betty felt a reliance

upon him as she peeped from be-her

blind early the following morning,

saw him riding away upon one of Sir

ge's hacks, which he had borrowed with-leave,

with a sense of relief and thankfulness

which she was surprised at herself for
feeling. The shy, diffident boy seemed to have
developed into a man of sense and sound judgment.
What was it, she wondered, that had
so strengthened and matured his character ?
Was it her own refusal of him, or was it his
engagement to Eita ? Perhaps it was a little
of both. The fact is, that Warlock was acting
for the first time in his life in a very unimportant
matter, entirely upon his own responsibility.
The knowledge of this gave him

strength. Betty had sent for him  Betty had
cast herself upon him for help  had laid bare
her inmost heart to him, so that he might
serve her. And was it not for him to prove
himself to be her stead-fast knight and true ?

There can be no doubt that although he was
very fond of Rita, Betty was still the divinity,
now far removed out of his reach, which this
red-headed, enthusiastic hearted young man
was ready to worship with the fervour of one
of the ancient crusaders of his race, when he
went forth to battle with the banner of his
patron saint before his eyes. For Betty he
was prepared to fight, and, if needs be, to die
which did not prevent his being quite ready
to marry her sister I

Lord Warlock found Dr James at home,
and a great deal of conversation passed between
the hoary-haired practitioner and the
inexperienced young viscount. A conversation
which was to lead to important results.

Within an hour of his visitor's departure,
the doctor" stood by his patient's bedside,
holding his wrist in one hand and his watch
in the other, watching his fjxce with keen
anxiety. Close behind him stood Mrs Power.
He found her, as usual, composed in manner,
and singularly quiet and gentle. Dressed ina
simple, dark-hued dress of some soft woollen
material, she looked the very embodiment of
a woman fitted by nature and training to be a
iood sick-nurse. The old doctor caught himself

looking at her covertly more than once
from beneath his shaggy white eyebrows.

'* Can it be possible' he said to himself,
*' that this quiet, nun-like little woman, with
the soft footstep and the gentle voice, can be
such a monster ? Yes, it must be true ; for
now everything that has been strange and
unaccountable in this case has suddenly become
as clear as daylight. However, the
thing shall not rest upon my responsibility
alone. Mrs Power ! " he said suddenly aloud,
*' this case cannot be allowed to go on like
this. I am puzzled, and far from satisfied by
Mr Eyre's condition. I must call in further
advice."

She started, but so slightly, that the movement
was all but imperceptible.

I assure you, Dr James," she answered
in a tranquil voice, " that it is quite unnecessary.
Mr Power and I are quite satisfied."

What ! with the patient's condition ? " he
asked, a little sharply.

No ; for, alas ! it is clear that for him
but little can be done ; " and she sighed ;
but we are convinced that no London doctor
could do more for our poor cousin than you
are doing. There is no need for further
advice."

There /.9 need, Mrs Power. I wish it, for
my owen satisfaction," he replied gravely ;
and so certain am I of the necessity, that I
have telegraphed to town for Sir William Hall."

Fenella stooped over the bed and rearranged
the patient's pillows. Dr James,
who was observing her narrowly, fancied that
her hands trembled. Something prompted
him to add, somewhat suddenly, 

We want a fresh opinion, Mrs Power, and
we want fresh nursing."

For a second she was as white as death.

'* What do you mean, Dr James ? " she said,
shortly and harshly.

I mean," he said courteously, " that the
nursing is becoming too much for your health."

'' Not in the least. I never was better in
my life. I would not give up my post here
for the world."

Nevertheless, I think it desirable that you
should be relieved from your too arduous
duties, if it is only for a few days, so that
your strength may be recruited."

Fenella had moved away from the bedside ;
a flush of real anger now mounted to her brow ;
she beckoned the doctor into the adjoining
room.

Dr James," she said angrily, " I consider
that you are exceeding your powers in this
house. You have no authority that can warrant
you in attempting to remove me from univ
natural place at Mr Eyre's bedside''

Dr James was a mild and courteous old
gentleman ; but there were occasions dien he
knew how to assume a sternness which, as a
rule, was foreign to his nature. The present

was one of these occasions. He looked Mrs
Power straight in the eyes, so straight that
hers fell confusedly before the keenness of his
glance.

Mrs Power, I own no duty save to my
patient. You are not Mr Eyre's wife." She
winced. " You are not even his relation, save
by marriage. I shall do what I consider is
right towards my patient, irrespective of anyone
else. A nurse of my own appointing will
come into the house this afternoon  mind, I
have not complained of your nursing  take
care that you clo not compel me to do so."

She looked at him with wildly startled eyes ;
there was a threat in his words ; she perceived
that the doctor suspected her. She
attempted to defend herself.

Dr James," she cried, with well-feigned distress,
" you are unjust and cruel ! I have never
left Mr Eyre's room for ten minutes. I have
devoted myself unsparingly  every servant in
the house can tell you how I have slaved 
what you have insinuated  "

Madam  I have insinuated nothing. I
have merely said that your strength is not
equal to a continuance of your devotion, and
that another nurse will take your place. I
think," he went on with rising heat, " that it
is time there should be a change. The medicine
which 1 prescribe for Mr Eyre does not produce
any effect upon him ; the food he takes
does not nourish him : the stimulants I have

ordered do not strengthen him ; things have
come to my knowledge  "

What things ? "

She was like a wild animal at bay now ;
a light, wild and savage, burned in her eyes
she saw that the game was up, and was
no coward.

' What things ? " she repeated fiercely.
*' Say out what you mean, like a man  if you
have any manhood in you."

'' It will be better not, Mrs Power, for the
sake of Mr Eyre's family and of your husband ;
it will be better that you should leave this house
quietly. I will only say that there are servants
in this house who have thought it worth while
to watch outside your windows at night."

She turned livid. She saw that her wickedness
had been found out  that her reion was
at an end. Dr James was rio;ht ; silent acquiescence
was now her only safeguard. She
uttered a half laugh, and turned av/ay from the
doctor's side.

'' You are mysterious, Dr James. I am at
a loss to fathom your meaning ; but, by all
means, have things your own way." She
shrugged her shoulders carelessly. "Perhaps,
as you say, my health is not equal to the task
of nursing Mr Eyre. Send for another nurse
if you like. I don't think it will make much
difference to the poor fellow now. All the
doctors in England, and all the nurses in
Europe, will hardly be able to save his life."

VOL. III. " N

We will see about that, Mrs Power."

She left him and went slowly away to find
her husband. Someone had thought it worth
while to watch her proceedings at night, the
doctor had said. She caught a glimpse of
Maria going along one of the passages. It
seemed to her that the girl looked back over
her shoulder at her with a look of malignant
triumph in her eyes. She ground her teeth
wildly together.

"Oswald was right," she said to herself;
"it is that girl who has acted the spy and
betrayed me ! "

She realised that all was lost ; that Val
would live ; that he would love again and be
happy ; and that she (Fenella) would be forever
cast out of his presence.

She paused awhile, filled with bitter thoughts,
at the long window in the passage that looked
over the park. The green slopes shone brightly
in the March sunshine ; clumps of daffodil had
thrust up their yellow heads round the moss-covered
roots of the elms ; a fresh breeze
swayed them gently to and fro with a graceful
and languid motion ; a few early lambs trotted
after their mothers over the grass ; a bird was
singing high in the mottled blue of the sky ;
there was a whisper of hope and life and
spring in the air ; but these things awakened
no answering sweetness in the soul of
Fenella.

What am I to do next ? Where am I to

turn ? " asked the adventuress of herself, as
she looked out blankly over the reviving landscape.


"Oh!" she sighed to herself, " if I could
only recover my birthright, discover the noble
family to which I doubtless belong ; but my
locket is o-one. I have no clue."

o

She turned away from the window, and
came face to face with James Wright.

Mr White ! "

"At your service, ma'am."

You are not, then, deaf and dumb ? "

No more than you are."

I never believed that you were."

You were singularly indiscreet, then."

I was," she owned. "If I had not been
born a woman, I should have been great ; as a
man I could have done everything ; but the
weaknesses of my sex have always pulled me
back. As a woman, my life has been a succession
of failures. What are you here for ? "
with a sudden change of tone ; " to do me some
evil turn, no doubt."

"On the contrary, to restore to you your
property."

What ! my locket ! " she cried. " It was
you that took it, then ? "

It was I that took it. Do you want it
back?"

"Give it me instantly. How did you dare
to take it. What made you take it ? "

I took it to identify it."

What do you mean ? Restore it to me at
once."

She was eager and excited now. A fresh
field for schemes and intricacies seemed once
more to open out before her.

AVait a bit," said Mr Wright, and gave no
sign of producing the missing trinket. 'you
must make conditions with me first."

Yes, yes ; any tiling you like. Only give
it me back," she cried impatiently.

You'll leave this house within three hours,
you and your husband, and your trunks ; everything
you possess, and you never willingly
cross Valentine Eyre's path again."

I never wish to. I would like to put
oceans betwixt him and me, so that I miofht
never see his face again."

'' You agree to my condition, then ? Remember,
if you break your word to me, I have
the proofs of your attempt at forgery  the
jDaper upon which you practised writing Michael
Gale's name. If you ever attempt to plant
yourself upon Mr Eyre again, I will rake the
whole of that business up."

Give me my locket," was her only answer.

You promise, then ? "

Yes, I promise."

He held up a small packet before her eyes.

Would you like to know to whom it
belonged ? "

To my mother."

*' Yes, and to mine," he answered.

To your mother ! What do you mean ? "
she gasped. " Are you my brother, then ? "

No, thank God ! for my father was an
honest man, and yours was a knave ! But
our mother was the same  "

Who was she ? " she murmured faintly.

She held the locket in one haud now ; the
other she pressed upon her beating heart,
whilst she leant against the casement of the
window for support.

Listen," he answered. " There was a
French woman who was a lady's-maid in a
noble family. She married an honest tradesman,
and I am their son. Her husband did
all he could to make her happy, but she was
vain and discontented, and she was vile at
heart. She left him to go away with a blackguard,
who, after a while, tired of her, and
left her and her baby. The miserable woman
left her infant upon a doorstep one winter's
night to perish in the snow, or to be taken in
by charity."

Ah ! " gasped Fenella, covering her eyes
with her hands.

'* A good woman took in the child ; that
child was you ; that good woman was the
aunt of the man whom you had striven to
ruin and to kill."

It is not true," she gasjDcd.

'* It is true. The locket that was about your
neck had belonged to your mother's mistress,
the Countess of Clayrole, in whose service she

lived. It was recognised by me, and by my
father, who knew it welL If you like to make
sure, go and see him, and he will tell you
more."

Spare me ! she sobbed," dropping her face
into her hands. " Say no more of this horrible
story ; do not disgrace me further  do not,
for pity's sake, betray this to my husband ! "

Not if you keep your word to me. As
long as you do so, I will be silent ; if ever you
break it, I will tell all I know of you  all !
Now go."

He drew aside, and she went by him swiftly
into her room.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.

MONTH has now passed away since
Mr and Mrs Oswald Power drove
away with all their worldly goods
on the top of the station fly, and
turned their backs for ever upon Croxton
House and upon Valentine Eyre.

Fenella told Oswald but little of the reasons
of her Hight. " The game was up," she had
said to him. Luckily they were provided for.
Their stay had not been in vain since they
departed, thanks to Val's liberality, with a
sufficient income to keep them from want.
And she was tired of nursing, she told Oswald,
sick to death of Croxton and its dulness.
She must have change of scene and of air
or she should die of it ! Besides, the doctor
ungrateful brute  had been impertinent to
her. And there was that low creature, that
clerk or house-agent, a hanger-on of some

kind, the same who had feigned to be deaf
and dumb so as to spy upon them at Crag-stone,
who had come now to fix himself in
the house. He too had been insolent to her ;
in short, Fenella explained to her husband that
the place was too hot to hold her, and that
she meant to be off.

She went, and Oswald went obediently with
her. She left without even a farewell look at
the man she had striven to injure so deeply.
And she was as good as her word. Ere a fortnight
had gone by she had put the seas
between him and her. The Powers had taken
their passage to the new world, and were out
on the high seas on their way to America. It
is a month, too, since Dr James' " new nurse,"
a sweet, grave-eyed girl, brought by her future
brother-in-law, came to take her place by Val's
sick-bed. Braving her sister's outraged propriety,
her brother-in-law's more kindly disapproval,
her fear of the world's slander, she
had come with loving self-oblivion to nurse
the frail life that trembled in the balance back
to health and strength. And Lord Warlock
had stood by her ; he had given her the support
of his approval and his presence. For
three days he was her only protection in the
house, and then, by dint of letters and telegrams,
couched in every form of entreaty and
persuasion, he succeeded at last in gaining his
point, and Lady Cornelia Fanshawe gave in to
the urgency of a viscount, what she would

scarcely have yielded to the prayers of a less
distinguished mortal.

She arrived, bag and baggage, at Croxton
House, and took up her quarters with her
maid in the very suite of rooms which had
been so lately vacated by Oswald Power and
his wife. She grumbled exceedingly ; but she
came solely, as she said, to protect her poor
foolish niece from the consequences of her owen
rash and ill-judged action ; and also, because
that dear fellow Warlock " made such a point
of it ! And then Rita went to stay' at Foxhall,
and Lord Warlock migrated there too,
but spent his days in going backwards and
forwards between the two houses.

And, if it isn't a match after all between
Valentine Eyre and our poor silly Betty,"
cried Lady Cornelia to her favourite and most
sympathetic niece, Helen Armstrong, " 1 really
shall never forgive myself for having lent
myself to such a wild scheme ! He certainly
ought to marry her after this  if it's only to
stop people's tongues."

I have heard he isn't worth marrying after
all," replied Lady Armstrong, who had driven
over to Croxton to see her aunt ; " that he
loses half the money if he marries. That was
why Madeline Abbott threw him over, I am
told."

Money or no money, my dear, it's to be
hoped he w411 propose to her directly he can
leave his bed ; there will be an awful scandal if

he doesn't. You mark my words ! And as to
Betty, she is such a wild, erratic creature, one
never knows what she will do next  if it is
only for darling Eita's sake." Rita was in
high favour at present. " I should be thankful
to see her settled in any fashion ; if she
isn't, she will become strong-minded and take
to woman's rights or wear ' divided skirts,'
or do something awful to bring discredit upon
her family."

Meanwhile, in the sick-chamber, there was
as yet no question of marrying or given in
marriage. Yal lay still and white among his
pillows  conscious  but weak as a baby. The
fever had left him  the wild deliriums  the
incoherent muttering of his fever-tossed brain
were things of the past. Slowly but surely he
improved day by day ; little by little strength
and vitality returned to him. He had expressed
no surprise at the sight of Betty by
his bedside,  he seemed to take it as a matter
of course that she should be there ; even Lady
Cornelia's frequent presence in his room failed
to disturb him. There was a hired nurse who
waited upon him, for Aunt Corney had insisted
upon this (and who can say that she was
wrong ?) so that her niece's name might be
protected in the matter from ill-natured gossip;
but Betty was rarely absent from her post,
whilst her aunt frequently came and kept
watch too in the sick-room.

Val spoke little, but his eyes followed

Betty incessantly as she moved about the
room, and ever the thought was in his
mind, 

Does she love me ?  or will she leave me
and betray me as others have done ? "

The crocuses and snowdrops were springing
up in the garden borders, and Sir George
Armstrong was Growling; over the " stinking
violets " which preluded the very last of the
uniting, by the time that Val came out of
his room for the first time, and was helped
downstairs by his faithful friend, Jim Wright,
and placed upon a sofa near the fire in the
drawing room. The whole family had assembled
to welcome him there. Lady Armstrong
and Rita had driven over from Foxhall. Lord
Warlock wheeled the couch near the fire. Lady
Cornelia fussed about with pillows for his back
and shawls to lay over his feet. Even Sir
George had looked in to shake him by the
hand and to cong-regulate him on haviuo; o;ot
upon his legs again; whilst Betty stood motionless
behind his head, scarcely daring to speak,
lest the tears of joy which were so near her
eyes should overflow and betray the intensity
of her emotion.

Why are you all so good to me ? " murmured
Yal, reaching out his wasted hand to
Lady Cornelia, who was tucking a woollen
(guilt round his legs.

Because we are all very fond of you, my
dear fellow," answered her ladyship heartily ;

adding to herself, "and shall be fonder still
if you Avill marry Betty ! "

Tell me," said Yal, looking up into her
face, " would you all be as fond of me if I
was poor and friendless ? If, for instance, I
had remained a clerk in Mr Malsham's office,
instead of becoming my uncle's heir, would
it have made any difference to you, do you
think ? ''

Lady Cornelia coloured. She felt that the
invalid was decidedly abusing his privileges
in propounding to her such a problem as this
before the nieces whom she had so carefully
trained, and the two nephews-inlaw whom
she had so laboriously secured.

My dear Mr Eyre, what an extraordinary
question ! " she cried, not knowing quite what
else to answer.

But I would give so much to know," he
persisted. " I have been studying the world,
Lady Cornelia, ever since my uncle left me
his money, and sometimes it has seemed tome
to be all a hollow sham of false professions
and untrue theories of virtues, which no one
pretends to carry out. Then, again, there are
times  as lately, when I have been so ill and
you have all been so kind to me  when it
seems that there is still some genuine goodness,
some real feeling left that one can reckon
upon and believe in. Is it because I am
Mr Eyre, ' the millionaire,' as they call me,
that I am made so much of, Lady Cornelia ?

or simply that I am Val, whom you all know
and care about ? "

He looked round upon them with a wistful
yearning in his eyes. Oh ! if he could know
if he could only know 1 he said to himself
with a pitiful longing.

As to Lady Cornelia, she decided that of all
the aggravating young men she had ever met,
Val was the worst. He was a good match
certainly for Betty ; if those two didn't pair
off together it was a pity. Did he seriously
believe that the whole of her family would be
there assembled round his sofa if he had been
a pauper and a nobody, and nothing had been
expected of him ? Why, he must be a fool if
he believed such a thing ; but then people ought
not to put things into words, and ask horrid
downright questions in plain English like
that. It was bad taste decidedly. Lady
Cornelia felt aggrieved.

Val began to be amused at the embarrassment
he had caused. A smile played over
his features.

Come now," he said, banteringly, " this
is the fancy of a very spoilt invalid, and you
must all humour me. I will ask you the
question all the way round, and see how you
will each get out of it. Lady Cornelia, I
have begun with you, and it is your turn
first. If I were a poor clerk upon a hundred
and twenty pounds a-year, as my good friend,
Jim Wright and I both were, once upon a

time, would you be tucking those fcliavvls so
carefully in round my legs ? "

I hope I should always do my duty to
every man," said her ladyship, who foiled to
see the joke of this terrible catechism at which
the others seemed considerably amused ; " but
money, my dear Mr Eyre, is a power which
it is never right to undervalue."

Val laughed.

Thanks, I am answered ; and you, Warlock
? "

"My dear chap, I hope I'm not a cad,"
said the viscount, reaching out his hand,
which Val pressed gratefully, and with a smile.

And you, Lady Armstrong, you can remember
me as an insignificant boy up in Westmoreland,
how I worshipped you, and how you
snubbed me ! I am afraid that you, too, will
tell me that money is a power."

So it is ; but women often snub men they
reals like, and you were always a nice boy,
Mr Eyre," was Helen's way out of the difficulty,
which made everybody laugh.

Here Sir George chimed in, 

*' What the dickens does a chap, who rides
to hounds as you do, want with caring about
other people's opinion of him ? What does it
signify in Middleshire if you are rich or poor,
so long as you have good cattle, and ride
straight ? We'd all have given you a hearty
welcome long ago, if you hadn't been such
a misanthrope. Just you come down here

next season and stop with me. I'll put you
up, whether you're broke or not ; but you
needn't smash your skull another year, you
now.

Then Yal looked at Eita, who began to
declare enthusiastically, that as long as Warlock
was fond of anybody, she didn't care who
or what they were ; of course his friends were
her friends ; and then she stopped short and
got very red, for there was a chorus of laughter,
and everybody said that it was to be hoped
she would be of as dutiful a mind this time
next year, whilst Lord Parlour was laughingly
congratulated upon the proper feeling
evinced by his future wife. And now each
and all had answered Yal's half-earnest, half-bantering
question save one. He had left her
to the last. Betty stood behind him at the
head of his sofa ; he twisted himself round
upon his pillow, and looked up into her face.

And you  what do you say ? " he said
softly, whilst the pulses of his heart quickened
strangely.

Her eyes drooped  a deep colour stole up
into her face. Warlock glanced at her, and
then with a fine sympathy looked away quickly
and began to talk to Kita in a low voice. The
others had moved a little from about him.
Lady Cornelia had retired with Helen to a distant
window, where she was whispering to her
favourite niece her conviction that Val was mad.

A good fellow, you know, my dear, but

mad  quite mad  takes after the uncle, no
doubt  eccentricity in the blood amounting
almost to insanity."

Sir George was examining; some old hunting
which lay upon a distant table. Jim
Wright had discreetly retired from the society
of his betters.

Nobody was near Val's sofa but Betty as he
asked her for her answer to his general question.
A sweet confusion flooded her downcast face ;
she played with the tassel of the sofa cushion,
and answered nothing.

"Have you no answer for me, Betty?" he
said softly ; " would you have nursed me so
devotedly for so long ? Would you have come
here to stay in this dreary house simply to
wait upon me and to serve me had I been 
well, as I was that morning you rowed me
alone in your little boat upon Cragstone
Mere ? "

You know what I said to you then ? " she
answered in a whisper, whilst a deep flush
of shame at the recollection dyed her cheeks
and brow.

Yes, I know I remember it perfectly ; I
have never forgotten it ; you said that money
and ]position was all that girls such as you and
your sister were taught to look for in marriage.
Do you knows, Betty, that that speech altered
my life ? "

She looked up at him swiftly ; a ray of
keenest delight flashed into her eyes. But for

that, then he would have loved her ! the whole
episode of his love for Madeline would never
have existed ; she would have been the first
and the dearest. No joy so great had come to
her ever since she had known him as these
words of his. She trembled from head to foot,
whilst a smile of purest rapture parted her
lips and shone in her happy eyes.

Is that so  really ? " she murmured almost
with fear, lest he should recall so sweet an
assurance.

Yes, you stated it as your creed ; do you
remember ? Did you mean it ? " He bent
upon her a look that seemed to search her
through and through.

Ah, no ! how could you believe it of me ? "
she murmured back, her eyes falling before the
earnestness of his.

He leant back upon his pillows with a sigh.
She was ready to give him her love, but  but
would she be as tender to him and as loving,
when she knew about that letter from Michael
Gale, which was to rob him of the greater part
of his wealth ?

The thought went like poison through his
veins ; he lay back exhausted, physically and
mentally ; he could speak to her no more that
day. The agony of doubt  the disbelief in
women  the scorn of the falseness with which
the world had treated him, was upon him
again. Woukl the cup of happiness be snatched
once more from his lips ? Would this woman,

VOL. III. o

who had once before forsaken the man she was
bound to marry, because of his poverty, be
truer to In when the wealth to which men
and women all bowed down, was no longer his
to bestow ? Would Betty stand the test which
Madeline, who had once seemed to him to be
perfect, was unable to endure ?

She waited a minute or two, then moved
softly away from his sofa ; a look of sadness
stole into her grey eyes, succeeding to the joy
that had so lately shone triumphant in them.
She could not understand him. There was
something, some shadow  some distrust of her
which she could not fathom, which for ever
rose up between him and her, dividing them
asunder when it seemed that they were most
near. She joined her sisters by the window,
and presently left the room.

Yal lay quite still with shut eyes. No one
spoke to him. They thought he was tired and
desired to rest. By-and-by the group in the
room dispersed  the lovers wandered into the
conservatory. Lady Cornelia took Helen away
to show her some mystery of lace or jewellery
up in her own room, and to have a good gossip
at her ease over Rita's approaching wedding
and the affairs of her neighbours generally.

Sir George betook himself to the stables,
and inspected Val's idle hunters, who had all
become fat and out of condition during their
master's long; illness. And so Val was left
alone.

The hired nurse came in, carrying a tray
with some beef tea. He took it obediently
from her hand, with a vague disappointment
that it was not Betty who had brought it to
him ; then he lay back again, feeling strangely
desolate and lonely, and closed his eyes once
more.

The sharp crack of a nut warned him of the
close proximity of his humble and faithful
friend, Jim.

Jim, old fellow, is that you ? "

Yes, Mr Eyre ; are you very tired ? "

"No  yes  perhaps I am," he answered
wearily.

Then I wont bother you now."

Val opened his eyes.

"What is it? Is there anvthiiig you want
to say ? What have you got there ? "

Jim held a bundle of papers. Val reached
out his hand.

No, you need not trouble about these
now ; you have had exertion enough for one
day. They are only some letters, chiefly bills
and circulars, I think, which I fetched away
from your rooms in Clarges Street, when I
came down here. You know, sir, you had
never had anything forwarded from there ? "
added Jim, with a slight reproach in his
voice.

Val smiled.

"Quite right, mentor ; but there has been
nothing of any importance, I am sure. Take

them away, Jim, they will keep very well till
tomorrow."

Jim was already at the door, when something
made Val change his mind. Perhaps
it was some good angel that watched over his
destiny ; or perhaps only the petulant variableness
of an invalid.

'' No, bring them back. I may as well look
over them now. Perhaps it will amuse me.
James won't let me read yet because of my
head ; but this will just occupy me. Put the
packet down here close by me, on this table,
where I can reach it  so. Now, leave me,
there's a good fellow, for I am tired."

Half-an-hour ticked itself slowly away before
Val moved again. He was not asleep 
only thinking deeply and painfully. At last he
opened his eyes and spoke aloud, 

No ; I dare not risk it  a second time to
be deceived would kill me. I will keep her
friendship, but I weill not ask her for her love.
I dare not. She was false to Oswald  why
should she not be false to me ? "

Then he put forth his hand, mechanically,
and reached the packet of letters from off the
little table by his side.

Madeline Handwriting.

I F T E E N circulars, seven unpaid
bills, two receipted ditto. An application
for votes for the admission
of Mary Green into the school
for the Clergy Orphan Society ; another for
George Walsh into an asylum for imbeciles.
Val turned them over with listless hands. His
mind was still full of his latest thoughts concerning
Betty Ormond  his determination to
refrain from telling her of his love, sooner than
to run the risk of finding that her interest in
him depended upon his gold.

What a curse had his uncle's money been to
him ! He took up the last unopened letter of
the packet, and, without looking at it, laid his
head back amongst the sofa pillows, and sighed
heavily.

Oh, if he could be rid of it ! There went
through his mind a sweet day-dream of a

northern home ; of the fells, blue and purple,
in the setting sun, or faint and hazy with the
mists of the morning ; of the grey old castle,
reflected in the glassy waters of the mere. Of
a life simple and uneventful, yet full of a divine
happiness, by reason of the gentle presence of
a loving woman, with honest grey eyes, who
would be ever by his side ; and who would
rejoice with him that he had exchanged the
burden of great wealth for the more peaceful
security of a moderate fortune. Was there a
woman upon earth, Yal wondered, who would
be ready to marry him, when she learnt of
the conditions of his uncle's letter ? He told
himself bitterly that such a woman could not
exist  that pure unselfish love ; and he would
be content with nothing less  was not to be
found amongst the daughters of men. Rousing
himself at last with an effort from these
painful reflections, he looked mechanically at
the letter in his hand.

The  To he forwarded  attracted his attention
upon the envelope, and he instantly recognised
Fenella's handwriting;. With a vasue
feeling of surprise he opened it. There was a
folded sheet of letter paper within, containing
an enclosure again, wrapped carefully up.
Upon the paper he read, in Fenella's handwriting,
these words : 

August est.  I enclose something which you
may care to see. Every detail of the past of
the woman who, when you receive this, will be

your wife, must of necessity be of interest
to you. The note, I understand, you have
read already, but no doubt you did not know
who wrote it  so delightful a memento of a
woman's disinterested love will surely be
valuable in the eyes of her husband. The
photograph is of a face which must always be
perfect in your eyes. You will see that the
handwriting on each is identical."

Fully aroused from his apathy, and deeply
bewildered, Val unfolded the wrappings of the
enclosure  there fell out  Madeline Abbott's
photograph ! He started as if he had been
stung. The beautiful face he had once loved
so passionately, smiled at him serenely  the
pictured eyes seemed to seek his own with
playful insistence, as they had so often done
in life. He knew every curl upon the dark
head by heart ; every dimple upon the smooth
cheek was minutely familiar to him ; these
things had been his own, his chiefs treasures,
his dearest delight  the sight of her face, once
so madly loved, produced a deep effect upon
him. He was weak and ill still, and his hands
shook violently as he held the photograph.
Then, suddenly, he asked himself, ivliy had
this been sent to him ? He turned the card,
and there, at the back, in round firm characters,
was written, "To 0. P. from Madeline."
And, at the same moment, the scrap of
crumpled and dirty paper fell open in his
hand. In an instant he understood all ; and

the scales that had blinded him fell from his
eyes. He remembered that little crumpled
note  for it had burnt itself for ever into his
memory. He seemed to see again Oswald
sitting crushed and heart-broken in the rooms
in Clarges Street, invoking his pity for his
woes, and his indignation against the woman
who had thrown him over, because he had been
cut out of his uncle's will ; he could see now the
haggard face of despair which his cousin had
uplifted to him, and hear the bitter words
with which he had reached out this very note
to him.

'' Head that," Oswald had said ; and Val
had read it, and remembering Lady Cornelia's
revelation to him concerning her niece, when
he had called upon her in the cottage in Westmoreland
 had believed it to be written by
Betty Ormond. But now he saw the truth 
the writing on the photograph was the same
as the writing in the note, and it was Madeline,
and not Betty, who had betrayed Oswald
even as later on she had betrayed him.

Oh ! why had he not known it before ?

With a curious distinctness things now returned
to his memory, which he had hitherto
forgotten. He remembered how Madeline,
curio; all the weeks of their eno-asement, had
never written one single line to him. How
often, sometimes in earnest, sometimes in
playfulness, he had begged and prayed her fora
single line from her pen, and yet how she

had never granted him this trivial request.
Always there had been messages by the servants,
or notes from her father ; but never a
line from her.

And now the reason of this was all at once
revealed to him clearly. Madeline knew, for
had not Val told her himself, that he had
seen the unsigned note which she had written
to Oswald. And she was afraid that he might
recognise her handwriting. Here, at once,
was the simple clue to the riddle that had so
often puzzled him. Oh, blind fool not to have
seen it sooner ! Oh, worse than blind not to
have known, by a sure and unerring instinct,
that Madeline was false as sin, and Betty true
as steel ! Where had been his common sense,
his man's fair judgment, to have been be-fooled
into such a fearful error ? Was not
this of a piece with all that he had since
known about Madeline ? Had it not been
abundantly proved to him that her beautiful
shape did but shroud a vile and despicable
soul ? And yet, in his blindness, he had continued
to believe in that evil tale against
Betty.

It was that which he felt the most at
first. The frightful injustice which, in his
thoughts, he had done to her whom he
now saw as by a flash of sunlight in her true
character. Lie had ever been true and good
and honest, even as the dear eyes, out of which
her sweet soul had so often looked at him ;

whilst Madeline's fraud and wickedness assumed
a deeper and blacker dye than before,
in contrast with her purity.

After a while came other thoughts  a sense
of amazement at the fiendish device by which
Fenella had striven to blight the joy of his
first days of married happiness, and a sense
of thankfulness that the blow which she had
intended to deal to him had been miraculously
transformed into an actual benefit. For, oh !
what a load was lifted from ofi* his mind by
this revelation. How light, all at once, grew
his heart ; how brightly now danced the hopes
of his future before his eyes.

Full of eager impatience, he struck the
hand-bell by his side, but there came to his
summons, not Betty, but the hired nurse,
ushering in Dr James, who felt his pulse,
proclaimed him to be flushed and feverish,
and ordered him straightway to bed, with the
chilling observation that he was over-excited,
and had exerted himself enough for his first
day of reappearance downstairs.

But not all the narcotics in the world, and
certainly not the mild sleeping draught prescribed
by his doctor, could woo sleep to Val's
eyes that night. He tossed and turned upon
his pillows, counting the slow hours that went
by, and longing for it to be morning. Betty
had now relinquished for many days past her
post at his bedside, which she had retained all
through the time of his unconsciousness, when

his sickness rendered him almost incapable of
perceiving her presence. Even the nurse now
rested in an adjoining room, and the rigour of
the rules which severe illness sets up in a
house were being day by day relinquished.
Val groaned aloud over his past folly, and
invoked the coming day unwatched and unreproved,
through the long hours of that never-ending;
nio-ht. And at last  as it so often
happens  just as the grey dawn crept shyly
through his window shutters, he sank exhausted
and worn out with excitement into a
deep and untroubled slumber.

And in this sleep he had a dream, and the
dream was like  and yet it was unlike  one
that had visited him before, and had haunted
him through so many days of delirium during
his illness in that little French city, where, in
the first days of his agony, he had lain sick
unto death for Madeline Abbott's sake.

He dreamt once more that he stood side by
side with a white-veiled form before the altar of
a vast church. Pie recognised the saints upon
the east window.; the great Norman arches ; the
giant frescoes upon the walls ; the clerestory
windows along the nave ; the carved heads of
bishops and martyrs, of devils and angels all
mixed in bewildering confusion in the fretted
carvings of the roof  it was the cathedral
church of Albona. The organ pealed overhead ;
there was a great crowd behind him, and,
hand in hand, he stood alone in the chancel

with his bride. Then all at once a rich-robed
priest stood before him  an old man with the
face of Michael Gale. And he said to him,
Nephew, great wealth is a curse, therefore I
that gave it have taken it away from you
again. Yet murmur not at that, since intaking
what I loved when I was on earth, I
have left you one thing that is more precious
than money ; for see, I have given you the love
of a true woman, which is rare, indeed, to find,
but which, when found, turns all things into
gold."

The church, the bride, the crowd vanished ;
the priest with the face of Michael Gale faded
into thin air. The morning sunshine shone
straight into Yal's eyes, and he awoke with
Betty's name upon his lids.

It was afternoon. Yal was downstairs
again in an arm-chair by the library fire ; he
was brighter and better than he had been
yesterday ; there was a light in his eyes and
a vigour of returning health in his movements
something seemed to have put whole weeks
all at once between him and the late languor
of a long illness. He sat up firmly and
strongly in his chair, and there was a flush
upon his face. Little Yick scrubbed herself
caressingly against his leg and licked his
fingers with her little pink tongue, but Yal
patted her head absently and took no further
notice of her.

Where is Miss Ormond?" he asked suds



(lely of Jim, who was fidgeting about the
room, arranging books and papers on the table.
I have seen all the others to-day but her.
Adhere has she been all day ? "

I saw Miss Ormond go out for a walk
with her sisters and Lord Warlock," replied
Jim ; " but they have come in, I think, now.
I heard their voices a little time ago in the
hall. I believe the ladies are now having tea
in the morning-room."

'' Go there, Jim, and tell Miss Ormond that
when she has finished her tea I shall be much
obliged if she will come and speak to me."

Jim obeyed. A few minutes, that seemed
to Val in his impatience to be of interminable
slowness, and then Betty answered his summons
and came softly into the room.

*you have not been near me all day," he
said reproachfully.

She smiled.

You are getting so strong and well now,
I did not think you wanted me."

'' So I only want you when I am weak
and ill, you think ? Come and sit down here
close beside me ;" he motioned her to a low
seat by the side of his chair.

With a certain imperiousness, which was
like the Val of old days, he took her hand
and held it a close prisoner between his
own. It fluttered for one instant in his grasp,
then lay quite still as though content to be
there.

Pure Gold.

Now, answer a question that I am going
to ask you. What did you do once upon a
time to my cousin Oswald Power ? "

She looked up at him with a flush of surprise,
then she coloured a little and laughed a
little, too.

What did I do to him !  how do you
mean ? What a funny question 1 "

Do not equivocate, Miss Ormond ! Did
you ever break my cousin's heart ? "

** I think not," smilingly.

Did you ever say you loved him ? "

'' Never ! " very emphatically.

Were you ever engaged to him % "

Certainly not."

Then, what did you do to him ? Eemera-
ber, I know something, and I must know all."

Betty laughed.

How spoilt and tyrannical you have been !
Do you know that these kind of revelations
are not quite fair ! Still, as your cousin is
married now, and no longer, I hear, in England,
I don't suppose it can do any harm ;
and since you must  Mr Eyre  "

Well 1*"

Well, your cousin once did me the honour
to ask me to be his wife, and I refused him."

'* Is that all ? " with a sigh of relief.

- That is call."

'* You never, then, threw him over because
he did not inherit old Michael Gale's money,
as he expected to do ? "

>

Is that what you believed of me ? ' she
cried, quite sharply, with a ring of intense
pain and reproach in her voice.

Oh, Betty, my darling, can you ever
forgive me ! Why did you tell me that Madeline
Abbott was true and good ? And why
did you belie your sweet self by those terrible,
heartless words, long ago, when we were alone
together upon Cragstone Mere ! Ah ! child,
child, I have misjudged you from first to last !
If I had not, could I have mistaken the untrue
for the true ? Could I have been led away by
the sham glitter of false gold, when I should
have taken my true pearl to my heart ? "

She was in his arms, clasped close to his
heart ; her cheek, wet with tears of joy, was
pressed to his ; his lips sought hers, and
showered passionate kisses upon their fragrant
sweetness. There could be no misunderstandings,
no shadows, for evermore between them
now !

And Betty would stand that final test of
love ! He knew it, with a surer instinct than
any that had ever guided him before. The
heart that beat so tumultuously against his
own ; the lips that trembled beneath his kisses,
were true,  else heaven itself were false !

He did not fear now to grasp his happiness
boldly with both hands. He remembered the
vague disquiet and apprehension with which
he had revealed his secret to Madeline. He
had no such tremors now. Only he put hera

little away from him, and took her sweet,
blushing face between his hands, and looked
straight into her eyes.

Betty, do you care very much about
riches."

Val ! "

You would love me as much if I was a
poor man then ? "

If you were a beggar, you would still be the
greatest man on earth to me ! " she answered
quickly, with all her soul's worship in her eyes.

He feared nothing now. With a smile he
drew her close to his heart and pillowed her
head upon his breast  and then he told her
all. How, because of his dead uncle's letter,
he was to lose his vast fortune upon his
marriage, and to retain no more than a competence
and the old house amongst the Westmoreland
fells, and that other house at Hampstead
which his aunt had bequeathed to him.

And what do you say to this, Betty ? " he
asked her when he had told her all.

I am very glad," she answered softly.
Val, if I had known this before I should
have been capable of letting you see my love
for you too plainly. It was that terrible
money that made a gulf between us, but for
that I think we should have found our happiness
long ago, and all the hideous past would
never have existed."

The afternoon wore away ; the landscape
without deepened into gloom ; long shadows

from the flickering fire danced fitfully across
the room. Yet still Yal and Betty sat on in
the gathering gloom. Heedless of time and
place, absorbed in that joy which is almost
too deep for words, anal to which nothing
under heaven can be compared, the joy of a
pure and perfect love.

All at once there came the sound of voices
and of footsteps. The door burst open and a
blaze of candle-light flooded the room. The
lovers sprang hasty apart.

Betty ! Betty ! where is Betty ? " cried
Kita. " We have been looking for her everywhere.
Where has she hidden herself? 1
have lost her ! "

"But I have found her," answered Yal,
drawing her suddenly back to his side.

Ladies and gentlemen, Sir George, Lady
Cornelia, Helen, Kita, and you, Warlock, come
and wish me joy. Allow me to present to you
the future Mrs Valentine Eyre ! I have lost
something. My uncle's vast fortune has
slipped from my grasp ! This day month, the
day 1 mean to be married to Betty, it will be
dissipated to the four winds of heaven. I am
about to lose what has given me so much false
importance in this money-loving, ]\Lammon-
worshipping world of ours. The miser's great
wealth, with all its cares and its responsibilities,
will have tumbled oti' my back like a heavy
load, which, God knows, I shall be glad to

VOL. III. p

be rid of ; but then, in its place, what shall
I not have gained ! A jewel of great jDrice,
a treasure that is as rare as it is beautiful,
a woman who can give herself for love
alone ! "

