Chapter I.

ACROSS yOODLEIGH DOWN.

5S7I|HIS is the story of a woman who, like
( i many another, in the mere fooHsh-
yfJu ness and exuberance of her youth
dreaded nothing so much as the uniform monotony
of a too well-known path ; preferring to
explore unbeaten tracks in search of wider
horizons and pastures yet unknown. A woman
who, in spite of many imperfections, won for
herself much love ; who in after-days would
have amended the Litany, adding to it a special
clause, ' From the sins of youth and from the
beguiling subtlety of our own will we would

VOL. I. 1

fiiiu be delivered '  for she wrote these words in
the marg of her Prayer-book, and signed them,
not with her old, but with her new name.

Of course I knew it must be Marjory ! no
one else in their sober senses would display
such exquisite wisdom as to sit dreaming on an
open bench in a public road, with a delicious
east wind blowing freely round her ; only youth
could indulge in such folly with impunity on a
March day !'

These words, spoken in a keen incisive voice,
might have been endorsed by the few passers-by,
who one and all had cast wondering glances
on the girl, who sat wdtli her eyes fixed on the
white dusty road in front of her  so lost in
abstraction that the well-known tone of a friend
made her start and change colour.

Of course I knew it must be that wise
woman Marjory !' repeated the voice, with
aggravating and condemnatory calmness.

And of course no one else but you, Mr.
Frcre, would have followed me with the express
purpose of saying disagreeable things,' replied
the girl, with an annoyed air.

To some classes of mind truth is always

disagreeable,' was the unruffled answer, as the
speaker drew a dusty circle with his stick, and
then whistled to a small grey terrier who was
burrowing among the last year's dead leaves ina
dry ditch.

He was a broad-shouldered well-built man
about forty-five, with a shrewd kindly face,
a face that was more remarkable for its intelligence
and keenness than for its good looks.
The thick closely cropped hair was already
prematurely silvered, and so where the whiskers
that were cut carelessly in a begone fashion.
Everything about the man was unstudied and
unconstrained ; fine clothes could not have
made him a dandy, and the finest manners
would have matched quaintly with a bluntness
that was far from being ungentle.

I have been all my life trying to draw a
perfect circle,' he continued, in a cool philosophical
voice. ' It is something to make one's
mark even in the dust of ages ; there is a
humiliating affinity between us humans and
these atoms. Some one says, ' A peck of March
dust is worth a king's ransom ;" I have an idea
that not Solomon, but a descendant of the wiseman
said that. It strikes me,' looking round

12

him reflectively, * that the world is in a mighty
mess this afternoon. We have strong need of
the old "vvoman who essayed to sweep the cobwebs
from the sky. Nature is carpet-beating, I
suppose ; preparing, like a thrifty housekeeper 
grand old soul that she is  for her spring
clean.'

Oh, I may as well go home with jou,' interrupted
Marjory impatiently ; ' it seems one
can never be alone and enjoy one's thoughts in
peace.'

You were enjoying them, then ? I thought
they were cheerful reflections, from the way you
were puckering up your forehead. Anne will
have to iron out the creases for you, if you
show her that sort of face.'

What a tiresome mood you are in !' she returned,
with decided irritability. * I wish you
had not followed me  you would have mado
an excellent detective, Mr. Frere. I think
an idle man about the house is created for tho
sole purpose of tormenting his womankind.'

Come, now, I call that candid : it is something
after all to know your real opinion.'

Desultoriuess is such a mistake,' she observed
; ' everyone ought to have a fixed

purpose and occupation in life  every man, and
certainly every woman

I am so glad you agree with me and Dr.
Watts, my dear,' he returned, evidently delighted
that he had driven her even into ill-tempered
discussion, for she spoke with much
sharpness and sense of injury. ' How often
since your childhood  and what a naughty child
you were, Marjory!  have I inculcated this excellent
maxim : It is better to do nothing gracefully,
than everything by fits and starts. Jerky
virtues are my abhorrence. If I were old
enough to be egotistical, I would deduce examples
from my own experience : ever since I
was a youngster I have never taken a walk
without trying to draw a perfect circle with my
stick, and have never done it yet.'

The pleasant humour with which this was
said would have charmed a less self-absorbed
listener ; but there are moods when the voice of
a siren would fail to please. And Marjory,
leading the pace with swift even steps, turned a
persistent deaf ear to her companion's good-natured
raillery. Not that this disturbed him in
the least ; he was more quizzical than aggrieved,
and more amused than either.

It seldom suited Mr. Frere to be long silent
never when he was with this girl  so after a
pause, during which he employed himself in
whistling up his dog, he began again, this time
putting his hand on Marjory's arm and compelling
her to slacken her pace.

There now, I call that worth looking at*
After all, these March days are not without
their beauty. Look at the grand effect of those
windy lights, and the shadow out yonder across
the common. You can get a peep between
those houses.'

Hitherto they had been walking up a steep
road, bounded on one side by houses, and on
the other by a fir plantation ; but now they had
reached the church, and before them lay the
long lime avenue, stretching across Woodleigh
Down.

It was a broad, picturesque road, pleasantly
paved with red parties, and the houses on
either side were handsome, well-built residences
standing far back in charming gardens. In
early spring  especially when the limes were in
their tenderest green  Woodleigh Down was a
delightful place for a morning or evening'
canter. Now and then vere delicious peeps

between the houses at the wide-stretching
country that hiy round Moorbridge ; and not
many steps from where Mr. Frere and Marjory
stood was one of the entrance - lodges to
Hampton Castle, the cottage standing against
a background of blue-black firs, and its
broad white road stretching into the grand old
park.

How I wish we lived on the opposite side
and enjoyed our neighbour's view over Moor-bridge
Common!' observed Mr. Frere, as they
pursued their way more slowly. * It strikes
me, Marjory, now I come to think of it, that
you have heard me make that remark before.'

Only every day for the last seven or eight
years  ever since we came to live at Muriel's
End,' she returned, with a little scorn. ' I
really believe that even Anne is beginning to
find the remark monotonous, though she would
not say so for worlds ; but then, all your
speeches are perfect in her eyes.'

Oh, as to that,' he returned cheerfully, ' he
is a poor fellow who is not a hero to somebody.
Even a harmless philosopher like myself, who
wins the word '* desultoriness " from year's end
to year's end, must have one devoted follower.'

And of course that is Anne

Ca va sausdiir. You would not class yourself
as a believer in the Frere philosophy. Do
you know your incredulity is a splendid counterpoise
to Anne's perfect faith ? It adjusts the
balance admirably'

Oh, you will not provoke me into an
argument,' she answered negligently. ' Anne's
opinions and mine often clash. My nature is
different to hers  it asks more, requires more ;
lout I cannot expect either of you to understand
me,' dropping her voice a little sadly.

Well, no,' he returned placidly. ' It is of
course beyond the limits of possibility and
common - sense to expect two sober-minded,
middle-aged people, like Anne and myself, to
comprehend the girl whom v>e have attempted
(mark the word, Marjory)  attempted to bring
up from the mature age of three. Everyone
laiows how deep, how many-sided, how altogether
inaccessible is a girl's nature ; its ,
how baffling ; its wisdom innate, and
never purchased second-hand at the circulating
library.'

'No, you shall not provoke me,' she repeated,
clasping her small well-gloved hands

together, and looking straight before her. * You
are bent on teasing me this afternoon, and I
suppose you must have your way. If your
remarks do not interest me as much as usual, it
must be my fault. Anne would have been a
more appreciative listener.'

I wonder what Anne will say to us when
I bring home the truant. Depend upon it she
will treat you to a lecture if the east wind
brings on my rheumatism. I wonder where
sou get your love of wandering ? Fluff and I
are always discovering you in unsuspected
places. I think you must have gipsy blood in
your veins ; there is really a trace of the Niagara
about you in your brown skin.'

He gave her a swift sidelong glance as he
spoke, but his lip did not relax from its quizzical
curl  for some reason, best known to
himself, he seemed bent on rousing her. Then,
for the first time, she turned her eyes fully to
him, and the angry blood rushed over her handsome
young face.

This is generous of you, this is kind, when

you know  you know ' pausing as though

her breath were suddenly impeded ; but he took
up her incomplete sentence and finished it.

" When I know your mother' you were
going to say ; well, and so I do, and an honest
hard-working creature she is, who seems to-love
her child better than herself  which is
not the way with all mothers. Still, I had no
knowledge of your father, and there is no need
to look at me so fiercely when I hint at a
possible gipsy progenitor. I am rather fond
of gipsies, and you are certainly a bit of a
Bohemian in your way.'

Why do you talk to me of my mother T
she said, panting a little, and looking at him
with a sudden gleam in her ejes ; ' where is the
need of bringing up such a painful subject ?'

Has not Anne told you T he returned
pointedly  ' you and I are going to White-cliffs
next week. No, do not leave me, my
dear, just yet,' for they had reached Muriel's.
End, and her hand had already touched the
gate ; evidently she was used to obey him,
for, though there was reluctance in her look,
she suffered him to close it again. ' There ia
just one word I should like to say to you
before you go in, Marjory : do try to be a little
less hard and repellent in your manners to
Mrs. Chard. Dismember that, though she is

poor, she is still your mother ; there is no need
for you to wound her so.' .

I owe her no affection,' returned the girl
sullenly. * From the hour in which she lost me
or rather left me a miserable little outcast
child at your door  from that moment the renunciation
was complete, and I only belonged
to you and Anne.'

True, and I love to hear you assert your
claims on us. In one sense you are certainly
Anne's adopted child, for she found you, not
I ; nevertheless, we cannot wholly set aside
nature.'

In my case it must be set aside,' she returned,
in a voice of great decision ; and her
tone was singularly harsh and vibrating, as
though her whole nature were jarred bj his
Vv'ords. * This once I will obey you. Anne
has my promise, and I will not go back from
it. I will consent to accompany you to White-cliffs
next week ; but if I live a hundred years,
never once again  never once !'

And what is to become, then, of my promise
to Mrs. Chard  that as long as you are
under my sister's care, she shall see you once
a year ? Is this fair on me, Marjory ?'

I have nothiii to do with such promises,'
Alas the firm rcpl3\ ' My mother does not care
for me  do you think I do not feel that ? Oh,
I am not so mean as you suppose ! What
would her poverty matter if you could convince
me of my mother's love ? but I am not to be
duped by fair words.'

No,' he repeated gravely, ' you are only
duped by yourself. You are truth itself,
Marjory so I know you believe every word
you say ; but, nevertheless, your mother's
lowly birth and want of education are heinous
sins in your eyes, and make you blind to her
virtues. You are always bewailing things
that cannot bo helped, spoiling all the sweet
wholesomeness of your youth by thoughts that
ought not to belong to you ; every day you
grow less like the old Marjory, and yet you
will not let us know what ails you.'

He paused here, and seemed to wait for her
answer, as though he half-hoped or expected
some outburst of girlish confidence ; but she
only turned her face aside with a quick, impatient
sigh, and made no response.

Ah, well !' he returned with a disappointed
air, as he watched her ; * Anne was always your

confidant, not I. The walk has not been as cheerful
as usual, has it, clear ? It must be the east
wind, I think : some natures are wonderfully subject
to atmospheric influences. A day like this
always brings to my mind all the disagreeable
details of life  unpaid bills, for example ; the
sins of youth ; smoky chimneys, and all other
ills to which the flesh and spirit are liable. But
here we are again atMurrel'sEnd, and you have
been bored by my company long enough.'

He opened the swing-gate as he spoke, and
nodded to her with a smile as she looked back
at him a little wistfully She had been angry
with him, but now there was visible relenting in
her eyes. She even walked slowly, as though
she expected him to overtake her; but in another
moment the gate had closed behind Flush* and
Lis master.

I have found out where the shoe pinches,'
said Mr. Frere to himself, as he walked on
rapidly in the teeth of the wind. * I could have
sworn to her thoughts when I found her in that
brown study on that bench yonder; but I wanted
to be sure  that is, if one can be sure of
anything in this crazy world ; there is a screw
loose somewhere. How comes Marjory, for

example, to be her mother's child ? There is
no sort of affinity between them. I knew the
girl was right in what she said, only it wonld
not do to let her see that I thought her so. I
never liked that woman : I never believed in
her. She is hard-working and respectable, a
church-goer, and all that ; bat there is something
a little underhand, to my thinking.
Marjory, with all her faults, does not take after
her mother in that respect : she at least tells
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth. That sort of character always rights
itself in the end. But she is not happy  it
seems to me she grows more restless every day :
she is like a caged bird who wants to escape,
heaven only knows where ! And yet, where
would she find a home like ours, and a friend so
faithful and loving as Anne ? She seems to
cling to Anne most. I wonder, after all, if she
confide in her T He sighed, breaking off the
thread of his reflections by a strong effort, and in
another moment he was whistling cheerfully to
Fluff as they descended the steep road that leads
to the town of Moorbridge.

Making UP DEAD CINDERS.

!HEPiE are few spots more affected by
Londoners than Moorbridge, and yet
in some respects its glory may be
said to have departed. The whole place, indeed,
has the passe air of a faded belle ; its triumphs
are only in memory, and belong to the age of
patches and powder and sedan-chairs.

Once beauty and fashion lingered lovingly
on the old parade ; wits and beaux jostled each
other on the parties, or drank the famous chalybeate
waters in the early morning. Scholars
and actors, poets and divines, the belles, the
dandies and roues of the eighteenth century, loved
to congregate in this Kentish retreat ; and the
balls at the two assembly-rooms were so largely
attended by a motley assembly, that a newspaper

letter of the period mentioned * no fewer
than seventy-two coaches stood at the doors.'

Now a curious drowsiness has crept over the
quaint old town ; and as one strolls down the
deserted parade, it is difficult to recall the days
when Garrick, and Dr. Johnson, and Mrs.
Thrace, with a host of other worthies, were
to he met upon the pleasant promenade on
summer afternoons. And here, on one occasion,
all the grand company on the parties came
to stare at Mrs. Elizabeth Carter, the woman
who could talk Greek faster than any woman
in England.'

But though fashion has ceased to stamp it
for its own, Moorbridge is still a favourite resort
in summer-time, and to the inhabitant
still more than to the mere visitor. The place
is full of varied interest ; the wide stretches of
furzy common, with its ling, and heath, and
luxuriant brake ; the curious rocks ; the long
straggling town with its steep wind-blown streets
and old - world mounts ; its fine views and
country roads winding round grand fir plantations
 are all alike, full of attraction.

Some seven or eight years before this story
opens, the Frees had bought a house on Wood-leigh

Down ; until then the brother and sister
had lived in a quaint old Queen Anne's house
in old Kensington, where their parents had
Lived before them. Miss Frere's health had
long been in an unsatisfactory state, and her
removal to a more bracing place had been
urged by their family friend and physician, Dr.
Battle ; and on this account solely they had
fixed on Moorbridge, as its salubrious air and
proximity to London were strong inducements
in its favour.

As Mr. Frere was an idle man, and likely
to remain so, there was no real obstacle to
their flitting, except that natural reluctance
that some people feel to leave a home endeared
by early associations. With Capel Frere the
wrench was far harder than to his sister :
women can more easily adapt themselves to a
change of circumstance  they cling more to
persons than to things. Miss Frere's home
was with her brother ; with him were her
Lares and Penates ; her affection and interest
were all centred on him and Marjory ; with
these two beloved beings she could have made
her home happily in a desert.

But with Mr. Frere matters were somewhat
VOL. I. 2

different. He was essentially a creature of
habit ; he found it more difficult to uproot himself,
and plant himself afresh on a new spot of
earth. Moorbridge was rather dead and alive
after London ; he was farther from his club,
from his friends ; he liked walking  no man
was a more persevering pedestrian  but he
abhorred railways, and any trouble concerning
the taking of tickets was abominable to him.

But, alas ! the mountain could not come to
Mahomet, neither could his club in St. James' approach
Mr. Frere's beckoning finger ; so twice
or thrice a week he threw himself, grumbling
a little over his hard fate, into the corner of
a second-class carriage, from which he would
emerge an hour later, still shaking his head
and moralizing over the enforced waste of
time.

An unemployed man never has time for anything.
Mr. Frere was no exception to this
rule. Early rising was not classed among his
favourite virtues  he allowed candidly that it
was good for most men, but it did not agree
with his constitution ; but as the day was never
long enough for his purposes he encroached
widely into the night. Omnivorous reading

requires time and quiet, and Mr. Frere read
prodigiously.

It could not be said that Miss Frere altogether
approved of her brother's system of
burning the midnight oil  it was bad thrift,
she considered, and ruined eyesight ; but she
was a wise woman who had learnt wisdom by
virtue of necessity, and she knew men were
wilful and would go their own way. When
she differed from him, she held her peace.
After forty, she thought, a man's habits become
fixed, and need more powerful regeneration
than a sister's influence. So she let him alone
which in other words was making him completely
happy  and never even complained of
tobacco-smoke when he left the door of his den
open  she would even laye suppressed her
cough, if she could have so far resisted nature.

Anne Frere was two years younger than her
brother. She was a tiny woman with a beautiful
little head, and a countenance that was full
of brightness and expression. In her youth
she had been much admired. ' Little and
good,' as people often said of her. And she
still retained many traces of good looks.

In a mixed company, or where she was not

22

sure of full sympathy, Miss Frere was a little
silent and reserved ; but in her own small circle
she could be garrulous enough, brimming over
with gentle fun, sparkling, almost witty ; a
charming companion on wet days, not to be
damped by east wind or a fog ; the sort of
woman that a man might well love to see by
his fireside when he came home tired and worn
from his day's work.

At jMurrel's End these virtues were almost
thrown away. Mr. Frere was no day-labourer
in this world's mart ; by his friends and by
himself he was always considered an idler. He
was a clever man  a man who could have left
his mark among his fellows ; he would have
made a capital barrister or an admirable
preacher, and his few writings  chiefly essays
and newspaper articles  bore distinct trace of
talent ; but a few thousand pounds falling unexpectedly
to his share, just as his university
career had finished, had spoiled the plan of his
life and robbed him of all energy. Perhaps
this alone would hardly have sufficed to drive
him from all public office ; but following upon
this moderate ingathering of wealth was a
certain failure, a love disappointment, which 

meeting him in the full strength of his early
manhood, took far too tenacious a hold of him,
destroying for a time his faith in women, and
depriving him of his greatest incentive to ambition.
So, instead of falling to work, he
travelled ; then he came home and dropped
into desultory bachelor ways. He was quite
cured  a man was never killed yet by being
jilted ; he had been shunted off the lines of
matrimony, that was all, and had grown a little
caustic in his wit on the subject of the fair sex ;
but perhaps he was better off as he was  he
had his freedom, his club, a comfortable income,
a sister who was ready to efface herself
most slavishly at his merest whim ; what more
could a man closely verging upon forty-five ask
of life ? Such were his expressed opinions, with
which he favoured his friends, but it may be
doubted whether he found even such a large
allowance of creature comforts sufficient for his
inward needs. Under the outer crust of good-humoured
indifference and mere indolence of
will lay a softer nature than the world ever
imagined  large-hearted sympathies with which
they would hardly have credited him. He was
a good fellow, they allowed, a capital companion,

but rather too easj-going for this hardworking
go-ahead nineteenth century. He had
plenty of brains, but was a Httle wanting in
backbone. A. man is bound to be something,
thought these stern moralists. He was not
even a phiLanthropist ; he did not take up any of
the catchwords of society ; women woukl have
had no rights, according to him, for he never
allowed they had wrongs ; he left Outcast
London to its own devices, and only observed,
i')i passant, that in his opinion the modern
Knights of the Round Table were sanitary commissioners
 that they, more than the clergy,
were fighting against the devil and all his
works. He was a model Churchman, according
to his own ideas, and always worshipped publicly
once every Sunday; but he would rather have subscribed
for public wash-houses than for churches,
and would have printed up in golden letters in
every street,  Cleanliness is next to godliness.'

No one knew  not even his sister, though
she might have guessed it  how largely Mr.
Frere gave in charities, how his left hand
literally did not know what his right hand dealt
out : on this point he was secretive  he was
seven ashamed of his own magnanimity : nothing

abashed him more in his own eyes than when
a deed of mercy was traced to its source by
some grateful recipient of his bounty.

He hated to be thanked. He reddened uneasily
at the first word, and the second would
drive him away to his harbour of refuge from
annoyances, his beloved smoking den. In spite
of his habitual good-temper, he could even be
cross at such times, and find a vent for his
modesty by indulging in splenetic speeches to
his much-enduring woman kind. ' Capel could
be as choleric as a "Welshman, on occasion,' his
sister would say, laughing ; but so well did she
know his idiosyncrasies, that she would exercise
the greatest tact and ingenuity in preventing
some unworthy applicant from reaching the ear
of the master of Muriel's End : he would not
believe the story in the least  he was far too
keen-witted for that, she knew  but at the
first crocodile-tear, at the first whimper of
misery, his hand would play him false and
find its way to his pocket.

It was mere pandering to self-indulgent pity ;
it was wrapping round his sensibility in cotton-wool,
to keep its edges from being wounded by
the sight of unrelieved pain. He was a moral

coward, so he told himself nearly every day ;
nevertheless, an oppressed animal, or a fellow-creature
needing help, appealed in-esistibly to his
sympathies; and never was he louder in his censure
of indiscriminate charities and the evil effects
of relieving paupers, than after he had just sent
some hulking rogue or some whining, white-faced
woman rejoicing on his or her way ; never
was he more derisive on the subject of district-visiting
and the inevitable and ever-to-be -
abominated tract.

*Well,' he would say to his sister, in a
satirical voice, when they met at luncheon,
I hope you have spent a profitable morning,
gossiping with a lot of old women. Have you
got a list of their ailments off by heart ? Never
mind, Anne, my dear ; we must all have our
bits of pleasure. I have my club, and you
have district-visiting ; but I don't doubt for a
moment who has talked the biggest lot of
rubbish to-day.'

But these sort of remarks she treated as
mere bluster, and passed them over in dignified
silence.

When the Frercs first came to Moorbridge,
it was a matter of surprise to most people that

Miss Frere should be still unmarried  she must
have been so very pretty in her youth, they
thought, and was still so admired ; it would
have astonished them not a little if they had
known that both the brother and sister had
passed through the same painful ordeal  that
they had both placed their affections unworthily
 but that, of the two, Anne's experience
had been the more bitter. Most unmarried
women have some sort of story in their past 
some dead-antigone mystery that they have
buried safely out of sight. One can meddle
with few middle-aged lives without stumbling-over
a gravestone or two ; true, the name maybe
half obliterated, there may be nettles and
rank grass instead of memorial garlands, but
there was a time when the fresh mould was
trodden in with many tears, when the undisciplined
nature sat down in the ashes and
refused to be comforted.

It was not that Anne had greater capacity for
suffering than her brother, but that her case
was exceptionally hard. ' Conscience that makes
cowards of us all ' stepped in just when her
happiness was complete, and by filling her
mind with a dread of future possibilities, made

her put away with her own hands what she
most loved.

Her engagement with Mark Gardiner had
been pronounced by all her friends to be an
excellent thing : he was a 3'oung man of good
family, in a good position, and had all the gifts
that make a man popular in society. He was
so pleasant natured, people said, he was ready
to do a good turn for everyone ; he was cultivated
and accomplished, and a sort of Admirable
Crichton in a small way ; and then he was so
handsome  he was almost too beautiful for a
man, some of his adorers would add. A wiser
woman than Anne might have lost her heart to
him with small blame.

'When Anne loved, she loved most thoroughly ;
and there was a time when she looked back
on her affection for Mark with something like
shame, and owned it was little short of
idolatry.

She never quite knew when the awakening
first came  when the first flaw in Mark's perfection
became visible to her eyes. Little by
little, most gradually and painfully, with many
revulsion of tenderness, the truth stole upon
her that her lover was not what he seemed,

that his nature was lower in tone than she had
believed it was, that under the fair exterior and
bright boyish speech lurked the dangerous
seeds of self-indulgence and a weill more prone
to weakness than to energy.

Then came the time of ordeal, a time of
miserable indecision and conflict. Should she
marry him  should she, with her eyes open at
last to his faults, put her whole life into this
man's hands ?

Sometimes in her anguish she told herself
that it must be so ; that loving him as she*
did, she must go on with it and try what her
affection and influence as a wife would do to
raise him to a higher moral standard. His
heart belonged to her most loyally ; she knew
that well ; according to his lights, and as far
as his nature permitted him, he would be true
to her ; but what if her woman's strength would
not avail to raise him ? what if she should have
to stand by, and see him slowly sink from her
level ?

It was an awful ordeal for a girl of three -
and-twenty ; but she passed it alone and un -
helped. Her friends would be against her, she
knew ; no one believed any harm of Mark  not

even her brother ; he was young and impulsive,
he woukl come right. Anne was too prudish,
too strait-laced in her notions ; men were
different from women. The same rules could
not do for both, it was nonsense to try and hold
him in so tightly ; whcn he was married he
would settle down and make a model husband.

Anne listened, and strove to believe her
brother's worldly wisdom ; but after a time all
such comfort failed her  her womanly instincts
were safer grounds. She loved Mark, alas ! and,
alas ! she must always love him, she thought ;
but she could not respect his character. It
was not for a wife to support her husband  one
day she told him so, firmly and sadly, and they
parted.

Mark was very cast down, but he did not try
to shake her resolution ; he was beginning to
see for himself that he was no fit mate for a
woman like Anne ; he could not stand on tiptoe
all his life to make himself taller. He was of
the earth  earthly and it was no good pretending
that such as he could be fashioned into a
hero ; if she would only take him as he was,
and make the best of him, he thought he would
never disgrace either of them. He liked to

take life easily, that was all. Anne did not see
tidings in this light  she worried herself ; and
if they married, most likely she would worry
him. Perhaps, after all, things were better as
they were.

Anne fretted all her fine health away, in the
doubt whether she had acted rightly, and
whether Mark would ever forgive her renunciation
of him ; but when some years after she
saw him again, her cure became rapid, and she
never had another moment's doubt.

Mark was married then. He had been disconsolate
for a long time, and had mourned for
Anne very truly, after his own fashion ; but
when a decent interval had elapsed, he succumbed
to the charms of a handsome American,
who was just then turning the heads of all his
friends. She made him a good sort of wife
in her way. She kept his house well, and gave
him good advice, and scolded him soundly when
he did not follow it ; but as she had no high
views of life herself, she did not trouble him
vitll unnecessary scruples, and Mark's laxity
had fine scope for growth.

Anne's heart sank when she saw him. Mark
was not quite so handsome, people said : he had

Crown a little stout and coarse, but lie was still
a charming man. He might he so to strangers,
but Anne's keen eyes could read between the
lines ; she saw the marks of self-indulgence, of
pampered appetite, plainly legible. He had
sunk lower already, and his wife was not the
sort of woman to save him. - She was too
hard, too self-engrossed, too fond of pleasure ;
and they had no children.

It was at a party thej had met ; and, to their
mutual embarrassment, Mark had been deputed
by their hostess to take Anne dovvu to supper.
Anne was suffering much at the unexpected
sight of her old lover; but she hid all such
feelings with womanly reserve and dignity. It
was Mark who was most confused and off his
guard.

I never thought to have met you here,' he
observed in an irritated tone.

But Anne took no notice of this speech, and
retorted by some ordinary commonplace remark ;
they were merely strangers indulging in the
civilities of society, and Mark, recovering himself,
presently followed her lead.

But it was not long before Anne forgot herself
and the part to which she had schooled herself.

She noticed with dismay, as he sat beside her,
how flushed Mark's face seemed to be, and how
freely he was indulging in champagne. It was
what she had feared for him ; and once, as he
stretched out his hand towards the bottle, as
though to fill his glass again, she whispered 
Mark, Mark ! it pains me so to see you do that !'
in such a troubled voice  with such utter
oblivion of everything except his wrongdoing 
that his hand dropped on the table, and he
turned to her with a sudden compunction and
remorse.

 Ah ! Anne,' he returned huskily, ' why did
you throw me over ? I should have been a
better man if you had married me. She ' 
with a movement of his head towards the place
where his wife sat laughing and talking, with a
small crowd of gentlemen round her  ' she is
not a bad sort, but she does not understand,
and she never notices this sort of elinor ' 
touching his glass. ' A habit like this growls
upon a man, but it is not what you think,
Anne. I am not such a poor creature as that.'

Yon were always your worst enemy,' she
replied, fixing her soft eyes pityingly on his
face. "Was there a time  good heavens ! could

there have been a time  when she had thought
she had never seen any face to compare with
his ? ' Your wife is not to be blamed for this.
Give it up, Mark '  pushing it gently away 
give it up before it masters you. I used to
tell you so, and,' her voice trembling and
nearly inaudible, ' 3'ou would not believe me.'

But he stooped his head, as though abashed
before her, and made no answer. Did he know
that he had already begun the downward descent,
and that for a will so weak as his there could be
no pulling up the steep incline again ?

That night Mr. Frere detained his sister as
she seemed about to leave him. She was
standing by the fire warming herself, for she
was a little pale and numb, as though with cold.
But as she folded her wraps round her and said
good-night, he put his hand gently on her arm.

Wait a moment, Anne; there is no hurry,
my dear ; you have no maid waiting to help you
to undress, and I want to make a confession.'

Really ?' she answered in assumed carelessness,
and arching her brows a little ; ' but I am
afraid, Capel, that I am rather too tired to-night
to listen to you.'

Oh, I will be brief,' he returned; * brevity

is always to my taste. I am not a worthy
man. May I ask why you are smiling ? It
is your great fault that you are so satirical,
Anne. I have no patience with satirical women.'

Is this your confession ?' she asked with
a fine assumption of meekness, calculated to
aggravate him ; but all of a sudden he became
as grave as a judge.

 Never mind all that, dear ; I meant something
very serious, Anne. I want to tell you
that I once wronged you. I thought you a
little too hard upon poor Mark. I quite took

his part when you gave him up, but ' he

stopped, looking at her a little wistfully', as
though he hardly knew how she would take it.

Well ?' and her lips parted a little anxiously.
Surely, after all these years he need not
be so afraid of speaking to her of Mark ; women
are faithful enough, poor souls, but they cannot
suffer for ever.

To-night, when I saw him, I knew that I
was wrong and you were right. You are a
fine creature, Anne; your judgment has put
mine to shame. We men are not sufficiently
pure to censure others ; our passions obscure
our sight. When a man's character is being

VOL. I. 3

sifted, we make excuses for him  put ourselves
in his place. My dear, jour innocent eyes
read more truly. Thank God that you would
not let us marry jou to Mark ! he would have
broken your heart. He is going down the hill
fast ; and that loud-voiced wife of his is not the
best drag on him.'

I hope you are not right now ; I. mean that
things are not quite so bad as that,' she returned,
with a sad smile at his vehemence.
Capel never did anything by halves ; he praised
or censured fiercely. If a man were not a
good fellow, he must be a sort of fiend incarnate.
This was all she said ; she knew
better than to entrust to her brother's ears that
episode at the supper-table. That was sacred
to Mark and her. Poor Mark, who held his
own reins so unsteadily that an angel sitting
by his side could not have guided him to
safety !

"When Capel would have enlarged a little on
the subject, for he had been much shocked at
the appearance of his old friend and favourite,
Anne put up her thin little hand and silenced
him.

*Let it rest,' she said gently; 'it is no use



raking up the past. It has been painful forme
to-night, and for him too, poor fellow ! It
is best to say nothing, when one must condemn.
If I Jiad not known all along in
my deepest consciousness that I was right, I
must have died from sheer trouble ; but I had
the clue  the right clue  and God helped me.
He always helps those who try to do right to
themselves and others ;' and when she had said
this she put up her face to be kissed, and left
him standing there, wondering why all women
were not so wise and so true and loving as

Anne.

32

MARJORY DAW.'

NNE Ferre's one romance had
ended miserably. For many years
her health was impaired, and her
spirits broken ; but even when recovery set in,
she always declared that matrimony was not
for her, that she was cut out for an old maid,
and that Anne Frere she would remain until the
end of the chapter.

She was so very pretty at that time, so
m'Kjnonnc and spiritiicllc , with such a lovely
little face and charming manners, that lovers
might have been as plentiful for her as blackberries,
if she would have only offered them
the slightest encouragement ; but she invariably
froze up at the first overture. She was hard
to please, they would say sadly ; she was quite

beyond the reach of any moderate ambition.
Anne saw them 2:0 without a moment's compunction
; not one of them, she thought, was
to compare with Mark  with Mark, that is to
say, as he first appeared to her, hedged in with
the glories of his young divinity ; they might be
lovable for other girls, but not for her.

The great interest of a woman's life was
withheld from her ; but after a time a new
object appealed to her tenderness, and in the
love of her adopted child  for so she always
called Marjory, as Mr. Frere never laid claim
to any share in the foundling  she found a
never-ending source of comfort.

It was some four years after her parting with
Mark, and she was still wearing mourning for
her mother  her father had died many years
previously, and they were living in the quaint
old Queen Anne's house in Kensington  when
she first saw the child Marjory. How accurately
she remembered every detail of that
memorable evening !

It was Christmas Eve, and she was sitting
alone in her pretty, old-fashioned drawing-room,
waiting for Capel to come in to their late tea ;
for dinner had long been over, and he had

gone out for his usual prowl, to walk off the
restlessness of old memories.

Anne, for a wonder, was not either working
or reading. The candles in the tall silver
candlesticks were still unlighted, hut the Christmas
log that Capel had placed on the fire was
spluttering and hissing, and diffusing its ruddy
gleams over the whole room. Anne, who loved
firelight and her own thoughts, and whose head
ached a little with the incessant sound of her
brother's voice  for he had kept rather an
excited flow of talk all dinner-time  had drawn
her low chair to the very edge of the white rug,
and sat basking and dreaming in the warm
glow.

It must have been a pleasant picture, if anyone
had opened the door at that moment. The
firelight seemed to transform the old room as
though by the finger of magic : the worn velvet
curtains, growing threadbare by long use,
looked fit for a king's palace ; the dusky tables
and cabinets were burnished and shone like
ebony ; the china, that was so precious to Anne,
showed daintily on the velvet-lined shelves ;
Anne's brown hair had golden gleams in it ;
the thin hands crossed on her black dress

looked almost as white and transparent as
alabaster.

She was lost in thought, and there was a
pained line across her forehead, as though
some distressing recollection were forcing
itself unbidden on her mind, when she was
startled back into the present by fancying she
heard a child's voice crying pitifully under the
window.

She rose hastily, and then reseated herself
with a smile at her own credulity. It was late,
and the air was bitterly cold ; she had noticed
some light flakes of snow on the ground when
she had accompanied her brother to the door.
Was it likely that any child would be out on such
a night ? But even as she reasoned with herself,
still smiling, the pitiful sound was again
audible.

Anne jumped up and went cautiously towards
the window, moving aside the thick curtain
that she might listen unimpeded. Yes ; some
child was crying, not many paces from where
she stood. That careless Capel must have left
the gate open, and some poor little carol-singer
had strayed into the front garden, and
was most likely crying with cold. This was

quite enough for Anne, and in another moment
she had hurried out into the hall, and had set
the door wide open.

It was colder than ever, and the air was now
thick with driving particles of half-frozen snow ;
it pelted Anne's delicate face ruthlessly as she
peered out into the darkness.

Who is it ? "\Miat is it ?' she called again
and again, each time more loudly. * Come
here, you poor child, whoever you are, and let
me see you ! ' And then she added reverently
to herself, * Yes, come, for the sake of the Child
who was born this very night.'

There was no fancy, for the crying suddenly
ceased at the sound of her kind tone, and somewhere
near, hidden by an angle of the house,
a little voice said :

Opie, opie ! Mary-doo is coming ! Mary's
atoning.' And there were little trotting stepson
the paved walk.

A child ! Good heavens  a mere baby ! As
the hall light streamed into the portico, there
suddenly appeared a small figure in a red gipsy
cloak and hood, and a dimpled hand pounced
eagerly on Anne's black gown.

Margery's tome, Margy's here ; Margy-doo is

     

SO told !' And a small face, blue and drawn
with cold, and still wet with tears that had not
been wiped away, hid itself confidently in her
gown.

In the name of all that is pitiful !' gasped
out Anne, quite unnerved by this unexpected
apparition. And then she caught up the child
with a sudden movement of indignation and
sorrow that such sweet infancy should be left
unguarded, and bore her swiftly into the warm
room she had left.

The bell she at once set pealing brought a
protesting and injured face to the door.
Mackay had not lived nineteen years with her
mistress to be affronted by such ringing as
that ; but before she could utter her first word
of protest, Anne's voice, speaking very sharply
and quickly, reached her unwilling ears:

Mackay, take a lantern and search the front
garden. No, I forgot ; it will bring on your
rheumatism. Ask cook and Eliza to be quick,
and they had better go right round the
house.'

Goodness me, Miss Anne ! What a turn
you did give me ! And the front door wide
open, and the snow making a fine mess on the

new oil-cloth ! And, gracious Leavens ! that
mite of a child on your lap !'

My good Mackay returned Anne, rather
crossly ; ' please do not waste time, but give
my message to cook and Eliza. They must
look for the person who brought this child.
The poor mother will be in a sad fright when
she misses this little creature. Tell them to
look out for your master. And if a policeman
passes, they must call him in. Quick, quick !'
And Anne waved the old servant away,

Mackay is in a temper, but she will do forbidding
thoroughly for all that,' she thought, as
she sat in her low chair, still holding the child,
and now beginning to examine its dress and
face curiously.

It was a pretty little creature, though its
face was rather wean and thin, as though from
exposure ; apparently between two and three
years old ; perfectly clean, and very nicely
dressed, though in a somewhat incongruous
fashion. The hood and cloak were decidedly
shabby, coarse in texture, and stained and discoloured
; but when Anne unfastened the latter
she discovered the frock underneath was of
finest French merino, and a cursory view of the

under-garments showed them equally fine in
material, while the little sodden boots were
burst at the sides, and might have been owned
by a beggar.

Anne drew them off with some difficulty, and
here again was an incongruity, for a dainty pair
of socks came to view ; they, as well as the
boots, were soaking. iVnne had them off in a
trice, and was now rubbing the little icy feet
tenderly with her warm hands, while the child
laughed from very excess of comfort.

Dat's mammie !' she cried gleefully. ' Mam-nie
'ubs Margy-doo. Margy not told now.
Margy loves the pretty fire.'

Where is mammie, my darling ?' asked
Anne, stroking the child's head. What a sweet
little face it was, she thought ; and the head
was covered by tight curly rings of dark
hair. Perhaps she would be able to discover
something from the child's prattle, though it
was certainly difficult to make much sense out
of such broken language. ' Where is mammie ?'
she asked coaxingly.

The little one laughed again, as she held out
her hands to the blaze, and then drew them
away in a hurry.

Margy's burning. Naughty fire to burn
Margy !' was her response to this.

Perhaps poor mammie would like to be
sitting by the fire,' observed Anne artfully.
But the small head was shaken at this.

Mammie's dot lots of fire. Mammie's
never told.' And then she stopped, and leaning
her curly head against Anne's shoulder, she began
patting her own hands and playing with them.
Margy ruined away; poor mammie will skye.'

Oh dear! oh dear!' thought x\nne, full of
pity for the unknown mother. * I was right ;
this little one has strayed and got lost. Capel
must go to the police-station and give full
particulars. I know I should break my heart
if this little creature were mine, and I had lost
her.' And Anne sighed vaguely, as women will
when they are soft-hearted and there is a child
in the question.

Just then, as though in answer to her
thoughts, her brother appeared on the threshold
with a puzzled and not over-pleased
expression on his face. As nothing ever
happened to put him out in their comfortable
and well-organized household, the faintest appearance
of bustle was in itself a grievance.

He expected to find tea-things, a hissing urn,
and Anne with a cheerful face  whether she
felt cheerful or not  ready to talk to him on
any subject he liked to propose ; instead of
Tvhich, at his o\ti gate he found himself confronted
by cook with a stable-lantern in her
hand, and Eliza bringing up the rear rather
flightily, after the manner of young housemaids.


If you please, sir, missis has found a child.
And will you be good enough to beckon that
policeman across the road ?' she said.

What child ? Stuff and nonsense ! What
does your mistress want with a policeman T
returned Mr. Frere, wrathful at the mere idea
of a mystery. And he actually pushed the
lantern aside and marched into the house,
where he found Mackay in the hall with her
apron over her head.

What is all this fuss about ?' he asked,
hanging up the old hat he kept expressly for
evening prowls. It was a hat that had seen
better days, and was now evidently ashamed of
its own existence, for it seemed to collapse of
its ovn accord on the peg.

 There is a mite of a thing in there,' retorted

Mackay, with an offended toss of her head ;
and missis has set cook and EHza to catch
their deaths looking for some beggar-woman or
other that has played us this fine trick on
purpose. It ought to go to the police-station 
that's where such as them ought to go.'

Mackay's ill-tempered remarks did not mend
matters, and as her master entered the drawing-room
with the frown of Jove on his brow, it
appeared as though his domestic world was
suddenly turned topsy-turvy, and that things
were about as bad as they could be.

He had come home punctual to his minute 
though he hated punctuality like poison -for
fear Anne should be dull, sitting alone on
Christmas Eve ; but the candles were still
unlighted, and the little square table stood in
its shining blackness with no dainty white
drapery, no snug tea-tray or suggestive muffineer.
Instead of that, there was that most industrious
of women, Anne, keeping bondman's holiday,
with a brat of a child sitting comfortably in her
lap, toasting its bare feet at the fire, with
honest disregard of appearances.

Mr. Frero sat down and looked at them both
gloomily. Not for worlds would he have owned

at that moment that it was the prettiest sight
that old room had ever witnessed.

The child stretched out its pink toes till they
almost crinkled in the haze. Then she pointed
rather a dirty finger at the aggrieved Capel.

 Dat's the milkman,' she crowed ; ' nice milk
for Mary-doo.'

Will you ring the hell, dear ?' observed
Anne, in a voice full of womanly tenderness.
' This poor little thug must have some
bread-and-milk at once. Isis, Mackay ; it is
not for tea,' as Mackay appeared with the gay
little tea-cloth. ' That is of no consequence 
wee can wait for that. A nice basin of hot
bread-and-milk, please. Make it yourself,
Mackay, and be as quick as possible. And
now, Capel, I am so thankful you have come in,
for you will know exactly what to do. But
first, I must tell you how I found the child.'

Humph !' was the somewhat grumpy answer.
Nevertheless, he listened pretty sharply, as Anne,
with a woman's innocent garrulity that revels in
details, and would not omit a single unnecessary
particular, narrated all that had occurred within
the last half-hour.

This is a nice business!' he exclaimed

testily when she had finished. * Some beggar-wife
or other has played us this confounded
trick. It is a dodge for getting rid of the
child. I may as well go at once to the solicitation.'


Oh, do you think so !' she exclaimed, taken
aback at this view of the case. And then her
eyes fell on the lace-edging of the frock.
Tramps do not dress their children so well,'
she said triumphantly. ' Look at these socks,
Capel  such fine open work ! Depend upon it,
you are wrong, dear ; though you are such a
clever man '  with a winning stress on the
adjective. * Her nurse has taken her out and
lost her ; or she has been stolen '  her mind
reverting all at once to the shabby cloak and
burst sodden boots ; but her eagerness was
checked by the child's querulous voice :

Fustian's coming to Mary-doo.' And, indeed,
the round eyes were growing decidedly'
heavy.

Mr. Frere laughed satirically

Marjory-doo  Marjory Daw. I suppose that
is what the imp means.' xVnd he repeated the
couplet viciously :

" See-saw  marjory Daw,
Sold her bed to lie ou straw."

Well, I may as well be off to the police-station,
or we shall have this small waif left
on our hands

Oh, Capel !' pleaded Anne, with tears in her
eyes at this ; ' surely to-night, of all nights in
the year, we can be content to have this dear

little one, for the sake ' and again she

dropped her voice reverently,  for the sake of
that Child in the manger

This drove him away without a word ; for
when a woman begins to talk religiously, there
is nothing for a man to do but to beat a retreat,
unless he wishes all his worldly wisdom cutaway
from under his feet. He certainly did
say, * It is a confounded plague, turning out
again into the cold,' as the sympathizing
Mackay helped him on with his coat, for it
was one thing to prowl about in the winter darkness
for his own amusement, and quite another
to be ordered abroad by the whims of his womankind,
so of course he had a right to be cross.
But he did his duty like an Englishman, for all
that, making himself thoroughly disagreeable all
the time. He questioned half-a-dozen policemen
on their beat, and did at last elicit from
one of them that a tramp, who certainly looked

VOL. I. 4

up to no good, a harsh-featured, dark-complexion
woman, had been seen hanging
about a neighbouring public-house, in conversation
with a rough sort of man, and there was
a child in a red hood and cloak between
them.

Being further interrogated by the inspector,
who had accompanied Mr. Frere from the
police-station, the man, with a fine honest
brogue, averred that he had not had a good
look at the child. She was crying, and the
woman was shaking her, but not violently ;
only he did hear her say something that was
enough to frighten the child. Being further
cross-examined by his superior, he recollected
the exact words, ' Give over, you little devil,
you, or I will fetch my big stick !' and then the
man had growled something at her, and they had
all gone into the public-house.

The young lady at the bar was next questioned,
but she answered airily, and not much
to the purpose ; though the inspector's civility
made itself felt at last. There had been plenty
of folk that night, but she did not recollect
any woman with a child. Being pressed most
urgently to recall all that passed that evening,

she did remember a man asking for two three-pennyworth'
of gin, and that he had drunk one
glass standing at the bar, and had taken the
remaining portion to a woman who was sitting
just behind the swing-door. No, she had not
seen her  that was to say, she could not tell a
bitwhat she was like, for she sat too far away
for that ; that she had a child in her arms, half
hidden under her shawl, for she heard it crying,
though it only looked like a huge misshapen
bundle ; but its hood was red, she could swear
to that  and the woman was tall and big, almost
as tall as the man.

This was fragmentary and disjointed ; but as
they could contrive to extract nothing more
explicit, they went back again to the police-station,
and after browbeating the man on whose
beat the whole thing had occurred, the inspector
proposed a detective accompanying Mr.
Frere to the house, that he might take do"\vn
further particulars.

Depend upon it, sir, that woman hid the
child all the time they were in the public-house.
Most likely she carried it in the same way to
your house, and finding the gate open, put it
under the window, and then hid herself behind

42

the bushes until the lady opened the door ;
that's the dodge, sir ! I will make every possible
inquiry, and our officer shall go back "with
you and examine the child's clothes ;' and as
Mr. Frere saw no objection to this, they started
for home.

The snow was falling faster now, obliterating
every trace of footsteps ; nevertheless, the detective
examined the small plot of garden-ground
most narrowly, and brought back a
tropics in triumph to Mr. Frere, in the shape of
a small piece of dirty fringe that he had found
hanging on a laurel-bush.

It is just as our chief says,' he observed,
with a low laugh ; ' the woman was stooping
down under that clump of laurels, and in
moving away in rather too great a hurry, she
caught her shawl against the bushes and tore it.
It is rather a shabby specimen,' he continued
ruefully ; * there isn't half enough of it, but I
dare say it will help us to identify the woman.
Let me see,' spreading it out in the palm of his
hand : * it is about an inch and a half in length,
and jagged ; it must leave a tidy gap in the
stuff. And I should not be surprised if the shawl
were plaid  what should you say, ma'am ?' addressing

Anne civilly, as sie stood by listening
in some surprise.

Anne examined it critically.

*A checked red and black shawl, I should
say; but it is so dreadfully dirty, you see,'
shrinking a little from the interesting trophy ;
but the detective, handling it most tenderly,
deposited it in the pocket of a formidable
leathern book, and then addressed himself to
further business.

Anne answered all his inquiries with elaborate
care.

The child was asleep in her bed,' she said;
but if his boots did not creak, he might go up
and look at her.'

Mr. Frere grumbled a little at the extra
trouble, but he nevertheless followed them
uninvited. x\nne had first fed, and then carefully
washed the little creature from head to
foot, and had wrapped her up in a piece of new
flannel she had by her, as there was no store of
childish garments in that grown-up household.
In this rudely fashioned garment the child lay
dimpled and rosy with warmth and sleep, with
one arm bare to the shoulder flung out upon
the coverlet. The officer stooped gently over

the bed, and took the arm between his finger
and thumb, turning it towards the light that
Anne was shading so carefully with her hand.

A little nearer,' he whispered, ' there is
some sort of a mark here ;' and as all three
bent their heads closely over it, they saw
plainly a faint blue mark, almost like a tattoo,
in the shape of an L.

Some one must have tattooed her !' exclaimed
Anne indignantly ; but the detective
shook his head.

It is a natural mark, she has been born
with it ; it is not properly a letter, it is more
like a blue veining. It is just above the vaccination
mark ; perhaps it has something to do with
that  one sees these little blemishes sometimes.
Has she any other mark on her ?'

Oh no,' Anne answered decidedly ; * she is a
beautifully formed little creature  not very fair-skinned,
perhaps  but then her hair and eyes
are dark. Do sou see that string of blue Venetian
beads, with that curious medallion ? I
wanted to take it off when I undressed her,
but she cried so at the idea of parting with it,
I was obliged to let her sleep in it.'

The detective nodded and examined the

beads carefully ; and then he turned to the
pile of little garments that Anne had placed in
readiness.

They were soiled, and the little petticoat was
sadly torn, but all the other things were uninjured.
The linen was beautifully fine, but
the marks had been carefully picked out, and
in one case cut out, as though the unpicking
had been too tedious a process.

There is only one conclusion  one inference
to be drawn,' observed Mr. Frere solemnly,
for the detective only looked at them with
unutterable meaning in his eyes : ' that woman
has stolen the child, and then got tired of it.'

Do you mean she lost it on purpose T exclaimed
his sister, horror-stricken at this view
of the case, and yet her own judgment coincided
with it.

Yes ; she found it did not pay. Children 
especially when they are not one's own  are
such a nuisance ; most likely it was a trifle too
old for her purpose, or she was afraid of consequences.'


Very probably she got into trouble, and
some of our people were down on her,' returned
the officer oracularly. ' Shall I send up

one of our men to fetch her tomorrow ? She
will have to go to the workhouse until we can
find her belongings ; we shall advertise, of
course, but there may be some delay

Oh, we will keep her here to-night,' observed
Mr. Frere magnanimously. She was
such a pretty child, and Anne had certainly
washed and made her tidy, but how she could
put her in her own bed  good heavens ! the
ways of women were past finding out ! and he
shrugged his shoulders and went downstairs,
while Anne lingered for a moment with the
officer.

The man was smiling as he went out of the
house  perhaps he, too, was moralizing over the
droll ways of women.

Mr. Frere was standing before the fire rubbing
his hands, well pleased, as his sister
entered. There was no urn, but a kettle was
boiling on the trivet, the teapot was hooded in
its old-fashioned cosy, and the muffineer was
in its usual place. He was cold and tired,
and the room looked unusually snug, and his
favourite armchair decidedly comfortable.

That's right, Anne, my dear,' he said
briskly ; ' pour me out a cup of tea, and let

US forget all this bother ; you must be tired too,
after all your exertions.'

Anne shook her head ; but instead of bringing
him the tea at once, she stood for a moment
opposite to him, and he could see that
there were tears in her eyes.

 Camels she said, with a sort of restrained
eagerness in her voice, ' you will not let that
little creature go to the workhouse ?'

Aye  why not ?' he returned, staring at
her.

I thought you would let me keep her until the
parents should be found,' she murmured slowly.

Oh, she is so pretty ; she has such a dear
little voice ! I could not bear her to be sent
there.'

And supposing her parents are never found,*
he answered, with a man's harshness of logic.

There are parents who disown their own flesh
and blood. It may be a conspiracy  they maybe
in league with this woman.'

That is not likely,' she replied, still in the
same subdued voice ;  but if it were so, if they
were never to claim her '

Well, what then, Anne, my dear ?'

I shall never have a child of my own,' she

returned, blushing suddenly over her sweet-face
; ' for I shall never marry. I should like
to keep her, if no one else will own her. Oh,
Capel, my dear brother, there are only two of us,
and sometimes the house is a little dull ; and by-and-by

we shall get old, and a little selfish '

but she could not finish, only leant her head
against his shoulder, and the quiet tears flowed
down her cheeks.

Keep Marjory Daw  adopt her as your
own child !' he exclaimed, almost too much
astonished to believe his ears: And then he
whistled and laughed off his perplexity, and
finally he Idssed her, and bade her cheer up
like a good little woman, and promised to think
of it; and then Anne dried her eyes, and allowed
herself to be comforted.

A Philosopher AND A BABY WITCH.

SLIGHT occurrence that very night
seemed to corroborate still further
the detective's suspicion that the
child had been kidnapped from its natural protectors.
Anne, who was kept wakeful by the
strange events of the evening, and still more b}
the soft breathing of her little bedfellow, was
very much startled in the middle of the night
by the child suddenly rousing from some dream
or nightmare, and seeming as though almost
convulsed by terror.

Go away, naughty woman !' she screamed,
pushing away an imaginary person in the darkness.
' I hate the bad stick ; it hunted Margy-
do. Oh, mammie !' with a lamentable cry,
Margy's good, and won't run away. Margy
hunted dreadful  and so told !'

*Hush, darling!' exclaimed Anne soothingly.
The little creature trembled all over as she took
her in her arms, but she soon quieted down and
slept again. It was Anne who was lying so
open-eyed in the silent Christmas morning, with
her tender heart wrung with pity. Who could
tell, she thought, how many oppressed and
desolate children were sleeping shiveringly in
the nooks and alleys of the great city  children
whose only heritage from their mother's breast
was woe and want, for whom there was no
rescue, no love, nothing but an existence of
ignorance and wretchedness ? And as the
mystery tortured her sensitive spirit, she could
only comfort herself with the remembrance
that not a sparrow falleth to the ground '
without the knowledge of the Almighty Father.

As soon as possible inquiries were set on
foot ; an advertisement, with a full description
of the child, was sent to the leading papers, but
with no satisfactory' results ; the police employed
their utmost vigilance in tracing the
woman, but after a time all clue dropped.

The shawl was, indeed, most cleverly traced to
a pawnshop in the Seven Dials. A tall, dark-complexion
woman, answering to the policeman's

description, had certainly that very same
night parted with a red and black plaid shawl,
and a pair of laced-up child's boots. The
shawl had a little piece of fringe missing, but
the boots were nearly new, and had fetched a
good price ; but on leaving the pawnshop, every
trace of the woman disappeared, though a
person somewhat similar in appearance had
taken passage a few days afterwards as a
steerage passenger in a steamer leaving Liverpool
for America. The man who accompanied
her was working his way across, and appeared
by all accounts to be a sailor ; the woman was
dressed differently, but the police seemed convinced
of her identity, though Mr. Frere remained
doubtful.  The clue is too slight a one,'
he remarked, rather contemptuously ; * most
likely our beggar wife is at present in one of the
rookeries in the neighbourhood of the Seven
Dials. I don't believe she has gone to America
at all.' And this opinion he maintained in the
face of all argument to the contrary.

Mr. Frere had worked throughout with a
zeal that almost hurt his sister ; she could not
understand that it was only his sense of duty
that was stirring him up to such unwonted

exertion. She thought in her sensitiveness
that her appeal had displeased him, and that he
was anxious to get rid of the child.

And yet the little one was growing very dear
to them both.  Marjory Daw as Mr. Frere always
persisted in calling her  though Anne with much
patient persistence had translated the child's
broken words into 'Marjory dear,' or 'little
Marjory,' as she always named herself  was fast
becoming the pet of the whole house ; even
Mackay, in spite of her sour speeches, secretly
caressed and made much of her.

She was certainly a most engaging little
creature, with a tongue that ran on like a
purling brook; and though by no means faultless
for even at that early age she developed a fair
amount of self-will and temper  she had a way
of kissing and making up for her naughtiness
that was extremely winning. * Margy won't
kye no more. Little Margy good now,' was her
favourite speech after one of her tantrums ; and
she would run and put herself in the corner,
unbidden, until she was fetched out and forgiven.


Oh, Capcl, I do not know how I shall ever
bring myself to part with her!' Anne said one

day when the child had been with them about
three months, and no one had yet claimed her.
One can see she has been dreadfully spoiled,
and I dare say she will give us plenty of trouble
by-and-bye, her will is so strong even now ;
but how is one to help loving her T

I do not see that you need try to help it,'
he returned rather drily, as he unfolded his
Times, It was damp, and that ruffled him
a little. And then he thought, from Anne's
expression of countenance, that he was in for a
serious discussion about Marjory ; and though
he liked the child, and would have missed her
sorely, he did so hate making up his mind, or
being wheedled into some decision that might
prove troublesome hereafter.

Anne knew her brother's shifts ways by this
time ; but she could be mildly obstinate on
occasions, and she had determined that Capel
should tell her his mind on this subject.

You remember what I asked you on Christmas
Eve ?' she said, looking at him rather
wistfully.

Oh yes, I suppose so ; but your remark
struck me that night as singularly premature.'

'It was a sudden instinct  an inspiration,'

she returned quickly. * I opened the door, and
then she came to me, holding out her dear
little hands. I felt it was my Christmas gift
coming to me across the snow. Oh, I cannot
describe it !'

Gifts are generally kept,' was the gruff
response, for he understood the drift of her
speech, though it was a little too gushing to
suit his masculine taste. He could not tell, for
his part, why she should call it an inspiration 
it was too high-flown a term. But there, he
would not quarrel with her, for she had risen
from her seat, and her hand was on his shoulder,
stroking him gently.

Oh, Capel ! Do you mean it ? May I
keep her really ?'

She seems shunted on to us,' was the cool
reply ; ' we have simply no choice in the
matter, unless we send her to the workhouse,
and that goes against the grain somehow.
In fact, I should not much like that myself.'

You are fond of her, dear ?'

Oh yes, I am fond of her,' he returned
grudgingly, for he was not in an amiable mood
that morning, and he wanted to get to his
Times, ' She is very well, as far as children

go. If she were ugly, now, I could not
tolerate her for a moment. I do not think
ugly children should be suffered to live. People
are always calling out for a censorship of the
press ; but I think we need more a public
censor for babies.'

Oh, what nonsense, Capel !'

Let me tell you,' in a combative voice,
we should have a stronger and better generation
if all the weakly and deformed babies
were put painlessly out of the world. Of
course it would be a difficult and unpleasant post
but so is the public hangman's, and yet plenty
of men could be found to fill that. We should
want a very special sort of person as censor ;
and, as a matter of fact, I don't think it would
be easy to find such an one. Then, if the law
passed, I am afraid here and there we should
find a parent in opposition, and there would be
much writing to the Times, and no end of a row.
You see, most parents are so confoundedly
selfish ; they care more for their children than
they do for the common cause of humanity.
Instead of thinking of the future good of unborn
generations, they are full of their own Harries
and Toms. Harry may be rickety, or Tom

VOL. I. 5

deaf and dumb, but you would never get them
to believe in the utility of a little chloroform.'

My dear Capel, I am glad no one else hears
you talk in this horrible manner : they might
really believe that you meant it

Of course, it must be done young  in the
very earliest infancy,' he went on, without heeding
her shocked protest. ' We are not quite
barbarians, and everything would have to be
done in the most merciful way, with a strict
regard to the parents' feeling. But, there !
"what is the use of starting theories ? We English
will never be as enlightened and practical on
this point as the Spartans. The fact is, we
have a national prejudice in favour of life. ** Live
and let live " is our maxim. When we massacre,
we do it wholesale.'

Oh, I do not follow you in the least,' she
said, shaking her head at him.

Of course, we must get rid of our surplus
population,' he continued carelessly ; ' sometimes
we poison a river. Ask our Sanitary
Commissioners what I mean by that. And
sometimes we snugly nurse a fever, or some foul
pestilence, bred and engendered in the wretched
hutches we call dwellings for our poor, and we

get a hundred or two mowed down in that way 
the " visitation of Providence," is not that what
they call it ? but I should think the dying
stretches lying in their fever tainted holes know
it more truly for the devil's work. Ah, this is
a fine nation  a grand nation, Anne, my dear;
but I think you would own we had our flaws
and our weak points, if I took you into certain
haunts I know in the East End of London.'

You make me shudder to hear you when you
talk like this. You make me feel as though we
were all wrong, somehow ; and yet how much
good is being done everywhere !'

There are too many tares among the wheat
he returned gloomily. ' We have centuries of
wrong-doing to undo, and evil weeds thrive
best in some soils ; we cannot change the face
of things all at once : it will be a hand-to-hand
fight as long as the world and the Church last.'

'Just so; but the right will triumph.' And
then she added softly : ' The thing is for everyone
to do a little. It always seems to me that
people need not sacrifice their whole lives, and
make other people uncomfortable, by wearing
themselves out by some mighty effort, if one will
just do the little bit of work nearest to them.'

52

All, I believe you are about right there,
Anne. If I had my will, I would level every
convent and Anglican community place down to
the ground.'

'Leave them alone,' was the equable reply;
the Sisterhoods mean well. On the whole,
they are excellent creatures ; but I fancy charity
could be organized in a wider and different way.
Suppose, for example, every householder in
London were to make him or herself responsible
in some sort of way for one waif or stray.'

A very pretty idea, Anne, but not practical,'
he returned hastily. ' By-the-bye  reirnons a
nos monitor  we have forgotten our own special
waif and stray, Marjory Daw. So it would
really make you happier for me to consent to
your adoption of the child ?'

Oh, so much happier!' she assured him, with
sparkling eyes.

Then, ni' dear, let it be as you wish. The
trouble will be yours, not mine  for heaven
forbid my meddling with nursery arrangements !
As far as I am concerned, the " bit lassie " does
not interfere with my comfort : she warms my
slippers now, and may prove very useful by-and-by.
To be sure '  correcting himself  ' she

burnt one of my Turkey-red ones that you
were so good as to work for me ; but I have
no doubt her intentions were excellent, though
Mackay scolded her so severely for her scorched
pinafore. I thought Marjory Daw's reply was
very reasonable, and not wanting in philosophy.
' Stupid fire burned them," she remarked very
truly, *' not Mary-do." Of course, on calm
reflection, one agreed with the child.'

Yes ; but, Capel, no one in the house spoils
her as you do. You really should not let her
see how much her little tempers amuse you.'

Of course, she will be excellently brought
up,' was the somewhat rude reply to this.  Old
maids' children and bachelors' wives are always
paragons.'

And after this he was suffered to enjoy his
Times in peace.

But, in spite of Mr. Frere's grudging philosophy,
and that profound satire in which his
soul delighted, Marjory and he were soon inseparable.


The child was simply devoted to him, and
regarded him in the light of a big playfellow.
Where's my F'ere ?' was her cry from morning
to night ; and she trotted about the house

after him like a sturdy little dog. When he
went out she would climb up on her high chair
by the window to waft kisses to him until he
vas out of sight ; and, generally, the first thing
he saw on his return was the curly head nid-nodding
on the window-seat, where she and her
dolls were established, waiting for him.

Once she was ill with some childish ailment,
and a little fractious and contrary  after the
manner of small people under like circumstances.
Anne, who was by this time quite bound up in
the child, was secretly chagrined by the way
Marjory craved for her brother's presence.

Tell my F'ere Margy wants him,' she would
say with much dignity, when Mackay or one of
the other servants entered the room.

And if he came to her  as he often did, with
the utmost . good-nature  she would order him
to sit down and tell her a story, or make him
carry her about the room. Once Anne found
them threading beads together, and Capel's
brown, well-shaped hands perfectly laden with
red and blue rings, with which Marjory had
adorned him.

Capel gave an odd little laugh as he met
Anne's quizzical glance.

We shall soon be in our dotage lie said,
with a shake of his head ; * this baby-witch is
fooling us both. See here, my dear  this is
my wedding-ring. In nursery marriages both
the happy couple wear one. Mine is blood-red,
you see, emblem of faith to the death ; Marjory
Daw's is blue.'

Margy's F'ere's wife,' answered Marjory
triumphantly, as she leant her flushed face
against his hand, for she was tired, with her
play, and then she patted him softly. * My
F'ere's a humbly man, and Margy loves him, and
will give him one, two, three kisses.'

It was certainly strange, but Marjory, from
the first, always tried to conceal her naughtiness
from Mr. Frere. Her fits of temper and obstinacy,
the wilful ways that presently gave Anne
so much trouble, were all kept for her adopted
mother.

She loved Anne  indeed, she was an affectionate
child, and loved everyone that showed
her any kindness  but she was high-spirited
and rather combative by nature, and Anne's mild
but firm rale often fretted her.

She would have liked to have played from
morning to night, and to have led as free a life

as the butterflies that skim so aimlessly through
the summer air, being a most idle and merry
little soul ; but Anne, who had been well
brought up herself, and had fine theories on the
subject of woman's work and mission, was
determined to lay a good foundation from the
earliest age.

So Marjory had her baby-lessons, and, at a
certain time every day, brought her little painted
work-box to Anne, and sat down on the stool at
her feet, to do her inch or two of laborious
hemming.

It was generally a bad time for both of them
unless Capel was in the room. Marjory, who
hated work, alternately shed tears and pricked
her fingers. Very often the mere sight of her
little work-box, with its pleasing view of Greenwich
Hospital and a pensioner or two in the
distance, brought on a fit of naughtiness ; but
all in vain  Marjory might sulk, and stamp,
and cry until her eyes were red, the baby-task
must be done.

Once Capel, who was present, interceded for
his little favourite.

Do let her off this afternoon, Anne. I
declare it quite makes me uncomfortable to see

that child stabbing herself every minute with
her needle. That little stained handkerchief is
quite pathetic

Marjory is too clumsy ; she ought not to
prick herself,' returned x\nne severely ; but she
exchanged an amused glance over the culprit's
curly head.

When the work was laid aside, and Marjory's
fat little legs had carried her out of the room,
Anne remarked candidly :

I do not like making her so unhappy, but
first steps are always difficult, and most children
Late work. I know I did, and gave my mothers
of trouble. You see, if I did not master
her she would soon get the better of me  for
you have no idea how excessively naughty
Marjory can be.'

Naughty children always turn out best,' was
Mr. Frere's response to this. * We all of us
have got a devil in us  perhaps not you, Anne,
my dear, for you were always a good sort, but
the rest of us poor humans. It has to be
exorcised ; sometimes half a lifetime passes
before we really cast it out. But there ! what
is the use of talking to a little saint like

you?'

But in spite of Marjory's wilfulness, and
though Anne at times felt an uneasy sense of
responsibility, neither she nor Capel would have
been happy without the child. She seemed to
fill the void in Anne's life, and lend to it a little
of the importance and jo' of maternity; the
interest that is often missing in a single woman's
life was hers by adoption and choice.

When Anne said, in her innocent wav  * I
love Marjory as though she were my own child,'
she really believed what she said, and could not
have understood that there was anything wanting
to her complete satisfaction. People would
remonstrate with her sometimes on the impropriety
of a mere baby, such as Marjory was,
calling her adopted mother by her Christian
name.

It is such an easy name to say,' Anne would
answer deprecatingly ; ' she has taken to it
from the first. You see, she hears Capel calling
it all day long, and so it has come naturally to
her.'

Things went on smoothly in this way for three
years, until Marjory was seven years old ; and
then there came a sudden interruption  an event
that threatened the happy little household with

a moral earthquake, and which caused Anne
irreat distress of mind.

It happened one fine summer morning that
Mr. Frere and Marjory were crossing Kensington
Gardens on their way home, widen Marjory,
who was a little hot and tired from playing hide-and-seek
with the dog, Fluff's mother, among
the trees, pleaded to rest a little on one of the
benches.

Mr. Frere, who had his paper with him, very
willingly consented to this arrangement.

There was a woman sitting on the bench,
and Mr. Frere, as he opened his paper, gave hera
cursory glance, as men will when they find
themselves in a stranger's company. She
seemed a respectable person, very neatly dressed,
evidently the wife of a small tradesman  at least,
that was his opinion as he took stock of her.
She was a good-looking woman, too, who might
have been handsome in her youth, but was now
careworn and depressed.

It is astonishing how many careworn faces
one sees among women in London,' Mr. Frere
thought to himself ; for among his numerous
hobbies was the study of physiognomy, and
many an hour had he passed sitting on this

self-same seat, watching the faces of the people
as they passed him, and speculating on them
and their probable histories ; but being somewhat
weary on this occasion, he forbore this
usual study.

So he read calmly, while the woman sat and
rested herself on the other end of the bench ;
but Marjory who was never long tired, and
needed perpetual motion like a kitten, slipped
from her seat and began teaching Zoe to walk
on her hind-logs, to that creature's infinite disgust.


The leading article was interesting, and
claimed all Mr. Frere's attention, so that he did
not even notice the wayward grace of Marjory's
movements as she danced lightly hither and
thither in the pleasant shade  though he was
generally pleased to watch her ; but a few
minutes afterwards he was fully roused by
hearing a stifled scream from the woman beside
him.

She had risen, and was standing stiffly, pointing
with her outstretched hand to the child.
Marjory's white cape had become loosened with
her play, and the necklace of Venetian beads
with the medallion, that she constantly wore,

was plainly visible against her white frock. It
was this that had attracted the woman's attention,
and to which she was pointing.

Who gave her that ?' she asked in a shrill,
agitated voice that frightened the child, for she
ran up to Capel and caught hold of his hand.
Marjory !  yes, of course it is Marjory. I
might have known it some minutes ago, instead
of puzzling over the face so. But she is grown
she is grown, and I could not be sure.'

Mr. Frere felt himself turning a little pale.

Do you know this child ?' he asked. ' Why
do you call her by her name ?' And then, ashe
asked the question, he remembered that he
had not himself spoken to Marjory  that the
silence between them had been unbroken. * Who
are you ? What does this mean ?' he continued
harshly, with the thoroughly English dislike of
being duped strong in his mind.

The woman shivered a little at the question,
and sat silent. She was almost ghastly in her
sudden paleness, but as her lips remained closed,
her eyes perused the child's face hungrily.

It is the same and not the same,' she muttered
; ' children's faces change so. But that '
pointing to the medallion  ' there are not

two of them. It opens, sir, does it not ?  and
there is M.L.C. in a monogram, finished with
three Httle pearls ? Ah, I knew it !' as Mr.
Frere seemed too confounded by this strange
statement to make any reply ; and then lie
shivered again, and her hips became ahiiost hie,
in spite of the summer heat. * Come to me,
Marjory !' she said, in a highly strained voice ;
come to your mother, my dear !'

MRS. CHARD S STORY.

S the woman uttered these singular
words, she stretched out her hands
with a little gesture of entreaty ; but
the child shrank from her, and hid behind Mr.
Frere.

Come away,' she said, trying to pull him
with all her force ; for he was standing as
though lost in some dream. * Come away. I
do not like that woman ; she stares so.'

You will not come and make friends with
me, my dear ?' in a humble, almost deprecating
voice.

No, I will not,' returned Marjory flatly.
I never had any mother, and I want to go
home to Anne.'

Hush, child, hush !' remonstrated Mr. Frere,

quite shocked at his p'otcfjccs rudeness. It was
not often that he saw Marjoiy in one of her little
tempers, and he hardly approved of the scorn
with which she was regarding the stranger. * My
good woman he continued, in an embarrassed
voice, ' you must forgive me if I hardly know
what to think ; the whole thing is so unexpected.
You claim to he this child's mother,
you profess to recognise her, and yet for four
whole years this child ]has been under our care,
and, in spite of all our efforts to find her natural
guardians, she has remained unclaimed.'

I can explain all that,' she returned ; hut
he noticed, with a little surprise, that she dropped
her eyes as she spoke. ' There will be much to
ask and much to tell, for it is a strange story
altogether.'

You will have to give us very sufficing
proofs,' he interrupted sternly, for the woman's
manner did not please him. She seemed to
avoid his scrutinizing glance, and, though her
agitation appeared real, there was a nervousness
and uncertainty about her that seemed strange
under the circumstances.

Of course I shall furnish you with proofs,'
she replied a little sullenly. ' I can give you

one at the present moment. Has not the child
on her left arm, just above the place where she
was vaccmatecl, a curious blue mark  a faint
tracing almost like the letter L ?'

My sister will tell you about that he returned
hastily, for he was not anxious to compromise
himself ; but a chill feeling of discomfort
came over him at her words. He had seen the
mark himself, and he could not but own that the
woman was already giving him strong proofs of
her intimate acquaintance with the child. No
one but Anne and himself knew that the medallion
opened, and the existence of the monogram
had never been revealed to another person.

His anxiety was intense, but he tried to disguise
it under an abrupt manner.

We cannot talk about such things here,' he
said rather shortly. * The child is tired, and
I must take her home. I will give you my
address, and you can come and give us all the
necessary particulars. It is too important a
matter to discuss in a hurry, and I warn you
my sister is too fond of Marjory to give her up
lightly.'

I am thankful she has fallen into such good
hands,' she returned, in a subdued voice. * The

VOL. I. 6

child was stolen from me, and I have had no
peace thinking how she had fared all these years.
Heaven is good to us when we least deserve it.
Yes, I will come to your house, sir  tomorrow
maybe. I see you are a gentleman, and will
give a poor woman fair play.'

And you must bring your proofs,' he repeated.
* By the way, you have not given me
your name.'

Mrs. Chard, sir Miriam Chard.'

Do you mean that is Marjory's name ?' looking
sharply at her.

This time there was perceptible hesitation
in her manner. The question seemed to surprise
her a little.

No, that is not her name,' she replied
slowly, and again he noticed that strange blueness
and twitching of her lips. * I've married
again since I lost her. My first husband's name
was Deane  Eobert Deane.'

Was that Marjory's father ?'

Yes, that was Marjory's father,' she replied
quickly, and her countenance lightened. * Poor
Eobert never saw much of our child, for he
left us and went to Australia, and very soon
afterwards I heard of his death.'

Well, well, we will talk of this again,' he
said, a little impatiently * Marjory, you must
shake hands with this person. She says she
knew you when you were a little baby.'

But Marjory put her hands behind her, and
obstinately refused the slightest overture.

 Let her be,' returned the woman, brushing
away some tears. She looked so grieved and
patient, that, in spite of his instinctive dislike,
Mr. Frere felt almost sorry for her. * Children
have short memories ; but, of course, it feels
hard to see the creature one has nursed at one's
own breast, and rocked to sleep night after night,
turn away like that. But there, I will come tomorrow,
and maybe we shall be better friends ;'
and then she sat down on the bench again,
and watched them until they were out of
sight.

Marjory was very cross and contrary all the
way home. She hung with all her weight on
Mr. Frere' s arm, fidgeted incessantly, asked
questions without ceasing, and clamoured fretfully
for his answers ; was first hot, and then
thirsty, and then so tired that he thought
seriously of carrying her, big girl as she was.
At last, being very wearied and irritable himself,

G 2

he lost patience with her, and desired her quite
roughly to hold her tongue, at which unexpected
treatment  for he was generally her
uncomplaining slave  Marjory relapsed into
tears and sullenness, in which state she remained
until they reached home.

Mr. Frere was longing and yet dreading to
see his sister. * HapjDy the man,' he thought,
who had such a sensible woman as Anne to
consult in all his difficulties !' but even as he
fortified himself with this reflection, he remembered
that the intelligence he had to impart
would wound her grievously.

This made him faint-hearted, and induced
him to slacken his footsteps as he approached
the house and saw Anne, in her large broad-brimmed
hat and neat gardening apron, raking
the beds under the drawing-room window.

He always admired her in this costume ; she
looked so young and girlish in it ; with her slim,
tiny figure, one could almost have taken her
for a child. His courage sunk as he looked at
her : she was so happy, so tranquil. She was
humming a little French air, always a sign that
things were well with her; but now he must
bring a cloud to her face.

As he crossed the little plot of grass, he was
wondering in what words he could best clothe
his unpleasant communication. He must beat
about the bush a little first, he thought ; but
Marjory saved him all trouble by precipitating
herself upon Anne with a childish sob and pouring
out her grievance.

Oh, Anne, such a horrid walk ! and he ' 
pointing in a pettish manner to Mr. Frere   has
been so cross ! And there was a nasty woman,
with big black eyes, who called me Marjory, and
said she was my mother ; but I told her I had
not got any mothers, and I won't have any,
except my dear, darling Anne. And she's
coming tomorrow ; but she shan't take me
away, for I won't go  no, I won't ! I will
scream and hold on to the palings until the
policeman comes !' and Marjory stamped as she
spoke.

Hush, my pet ! no one shall take you away,'
returned Anne, kissing her fondly ; but Mr.
Frere saw that she had become suddenly very
pale, and her lips trembled. * Run to Mackay,
darling, and ask her to give you some milk
and a sponge-cake, and I will come to you
directly.'

But the moment Marjory had run off, she
threw down her rake and led the way round the
house to a covered hence, where they would be
unseen and undisturbed.

Now, Capel, what does this mean ?' she
asked breathlessly ; and she fixed her e3es
anxiously on his face as he narrated the strange
circumstance of the morning.

You should have brought her back with
you,' she said feverishly, when he had finished.
You did not think of me and my suspense.
How am I to live through the night until I
know if this woman's story be true ?'

My dear Anne !' he remonstrated, for her
vehemence quite alarmed him ; she was always
so quiet and reasonable, even in her troubles;
but now there was a red, angry spot in her
cheeks, and her eyes shone with excitement.

Oh, Capel, it is too hard, after all these
years, and just when we have got to look upon
her as our .own. I cannot part with her 
indeed I cannot !'

 Nay, my dear, be practical. Not part with
her to her own mother ?'

Oh, how coldly you speak ! But that is the
way of men, I suppose. She must be a strange

sort of mother, to judge from your account. Mrs.
Chard  Miriam Chard. Oh, what a hateful
name ! She must be a hateful woman, I am
sure. Don't look at me in that way, Capel.
I'm not reasonable  not a bit, where Marjory is
concerned. If it were not for you, I think I
should run away with her.'

You had better go and lie down, dear ; you
have tired yourself raking those beds in the sun,
and now this has upset you. Go into the
house and rest yourself,' he added, in his most
affectionate manner.

He had never seen Anne so moved, so angry
before, and it almost frightened him. He could
not understand how even a quiet woman can be
roused to excitement at any attack threatening
the peace of one dependent on her ; the instinct
of protection is so strong in some
women.

Anne smiled faintly at this advice, but she
was sensible enough to take it ; for her head
began to throb ominously, and she knew a few
hours of pain and misery were in store for her.
Capel was left to his own devices for the remainder
of the day, for Marjory sulked most
perseveringly, and would not open her lips.

 I am holding my tongue she said majestically,
when he inquired why she was so
cross. ' You told me to do it, you know.'

Mr. Frere looked at her with grave rebuke,
but he very wisely refrained from his usual
coaxing, and poor Marjory was left to enjoy her
enforced silence in peace.

Anne looked very worn and jaded when she
made her appearance the next morning. She
had not closed her eyes the whole night, and
even Mr. Frere, when he joined them some
hom's later, owned that his rest had not been as
unbroken as usual.

The whole thing is such a confounded bore,
one hates being mixed up in this sort of mess,'
he said rather crossly ; but Anne did not carry
on the subject. She set about her usual business
 occupying herself with a heavy heart, it
is true  and so the morning dragged on.

Both of them were anxiously looking for
their unwelcome visitor, but it was Anne who
faltered and turned pale when the dreaded
name was announced. Mr. Frere had had
time to collect his forces, and was as cool as
possible.

It had been arranged between them that he

should be spokesman ; and he addressed the
woman at once, very guardedly :

We should like to hear all you have to tellus,
Mrs. Chard. You may be as explicit as you
like, not only about Marjory, but about yourself
and your surroundings.'

'I have no objection to tell you about myself,'
she returned very civilly, but in the same subdued
voice in which she had spoken yesterday.

He had placed her in a chair facing the
window, and was himself sitting with his back
to the Hight. By this, he would not lose a single
change of expression. He saw at once that she
was not unconscious of his intention of watching
her ; for she darted an uneasy look at him
before she began. But from that time she kept
her eyes fixed on the hands that were folded so
tightly in her lap.

It could not be denied that she told her story
very fairly.

She had been a servant, she said, and had
kept her situation until she had married ; and,
strange to say, her mother had served her old
mistress in the same capacity.

I was in the house as a child, and played
with my young mistress many a time when we

were cliiklren together,' she went od. 'It was
always understood that as soon as I was old
enough I should come to the Grange as under-housemaid
; for m} old mistress always thought
a good deal of my mother, and she wanted me
to be trained under her own eyes. I was always
happy at the Grange ; for I respected my old
mistress and I dearly loved my young one *

And their names T demanded Mr. Frere
abruptly.

Mrs. Chard coloured a little at the interruption.


My old mistress's name was Mrs. Weston,
and my young mistress's was Miss Lilies.'

Lilies Weston. I shall remember that ; it
is rather an uncommon name.'

She changed it about the same time as I
changed mine,' returned Mrs. Chard, with another
flickering uneasy look at him. * We were married
within a month of each other. My old mistress
had been dead only six months ; but she made
me promise to stop on at the Grange until Miss
Lilies was married.'

And who did Miss Lilies marry ?' asked Mr.
Frere carelessly.

His name was Carr, sir,' catching her breath

for a moment. ' I can't rightly say his Christian
name, but I think it was PhiHp, or maybe
Sydney ; anyhow, he was a fine, handsome
gentleman, though not so rich as they thought ;
for something went wrong with his money shortly
afterwards, and they had to go to Peru, where
he had a mine. But, however that may be.
Miss Lilies doated on him, as all the world
could see.'

And they went away ?'

Yes, sir ; and they are away still, for all I
know. Her mother's dead, and the Grange has
been let, and has passed into other hands ; and
it is not likely that, even if they came back to
England, they would take the trouble to find me
out  eight years is a long time.'

And you married Eobert Deane  Marjory's
father ?'

A softened look came into Mrs. Chard's eyes.

Yes, sir ; and more's the pity, as the neighbours
would tell you, if you asked them ; for
Eobert did not treat me as well as he should,
though I was that fond of him that I was only
too ready to forgive him. We lived down at
Chigwell  Eobert's father had the forge there,
and Eobert had worked under him from a boy ;

but he was uppish, and always wanted to be
master, and one day he and his father had words,
and then nothing would do but Eobert must goto
Australia.'

Do you mean that he left you behind ?'

She nodded mournfully.

Well, you see, sir, Eobert was a bit gay ;
and, like many young fellows, he was for seeing
the world  never remembering his father's words
that ' Rolling stones gather no moss." He
was very fair-spoken, was Eobert, and he was
for ever telling me that a good workman like
himself would do better in Australia ; and that,
as Marjory was too young to bear the voyage, he
must go alone first, and then I could follow him
later with the child. There were other reasons,
too, for my staying behind, but I need not
trouble you with all that.' And she hurried on:
 When I bade him good-bye, I never thought it
was my last look at him : he died on the way
out, and that was the first news I had of him.'

How long ago did that happen ?'

Between five or six years  my baby was
not quite eighteen months old when I heard
that I was a widow. Everything seemed to
come on me at once : for my father-in-law died

shortly afterwards ; and not six months after
that, my mother followed  so for a time I was
quite friendless

And Marjory ?' observed Mr. Frere significantly
; for he feared a long dissertation on
the young widow's woes. Women love to dwell
on their griefs, he thought ; and, after all, this
had very little to do with Marjory's disappearance.


I am coming to that,' she said, as though
deprecating his abruptness ; ' but I thought you
and Miss Frere wished to have it all plain from
the beginning. That is why I troubled you with
the sad story of my married life. I kept on the
cottage at Chigwell, because I had nowhere else
to go. I had another little girl with me, whom
I had brought up with my own. Her mother
was in a lunatic asylum, and her father, poor
man, wanted a likely nurse for her, as he paid
liberally. I found little Sissie a great help tome.'


Little Sissie ?'

We called her that instead of Cicely, sir.
Her father was a Captain Cooper, in the
Hussars, and she and my Marjory were rare
playfellows.'

Wait a moment, Capel !' exclaimed Anne, in
an agitated whisper. She seemed struggling
with some effort of memory. * When the child
first came to ns, I remember that for two or
three nights she cried because she had not said
good-night to Sis. I wondered at the time
whom she meant.'

It was just her little bedfellow, Sissie,'
returned Mrs. Chard, with more emotion than
she had 3'et shown. * They used to sleep
together  the pretty dears !  and many a time
have I stood and watched them, looking like
little angels, with their arms round each other.
She was always so fond of Sis, was Marjory.'

Is the child with you still, Mrs. Chard ?'

Oh dear no, sir,' with another flicker of the
eyelids in his direction. ' Her poor mother
died, but an aunt came and fetched her away
very soon after I lost Marjory. It was a double
loss, as I may say, for I cared for one almost as
much as for the other ; but I am bound to say
they paid me handsomely when they took her
away.'

And now about Marjory ?'

Very well, sir ; I will tell you all about
that. Marjory was three years the very day

she was stolen. I remember that morning far
too well. Sis was not very well, and I had laid
her on her bed for a good sleep, and I was washing
in the little outhouse while Marjory played
in the kitchen.'

How was she dressed that morning ?' putting
the question very carelessly, as though the
answer was of no importance. But she replied
without a moment's hesitation ;

Well, it was her birthday, you see, and she
had begged me to put on her best dress  a grey
merino  that a kind lady had given her. Some
of Sissie's clothes were outgrown, for she was a
big girl, and Marjory always took those. So
she was nicely dressed that morning, and looked
like a lady's child ; and she had on her beads,
too. She always wore them on Sundays and
holidays.'

Will you mind telling me how you came by
such things, Mrs. Chard, and the meaning of
the monogram M.L.C. ?'

Mr. Frere put the question with studious
politeness, but there was no perceptible hesitation
in the woman's manner as she answered
him :

They are curious beads, are they not, sir ?

Some one told me they came from Venice.
They belonged to my old mistress, Mrs. Weston,
and the monogram is the initials of her maiden
name  Maud Lilies Cardigan. She left stores
of fine ornaments when she died, and Miss
Lilies picked this out for me to keep. Marjory
was fond of it from a baby, so I let her
wear it.'

Well, go on,' he returned, as though satisfied.


I was washing, as I said, and a little bit
hot and irritable with my work ; and when one
of those pedlar-women came to the door, and
wanted to show me her wares, I did not answer
her quite as civilly as I ought to have done.
She was a tall, dark woman, and I remember
she had a red and black shawl.' (Here Mr.
Frere and his sister exchanged looks.) * She
had a cast in one eye, and I did not much like
the look of her. She seemed a likely sort to
lay hands on anything within reach.

'* I don't want any of your wares, and I will
thank you to tramp ofi" these premises as quickly
as possible," I said rather roughly.

** You might have answered a body civilly,
missis," she said, with a sort of unpleasant

scowl on lier face ; and I heard her mutter
something to herself as she turned away. But
Sissie woke just then, and was crying out for me ;
so I just dried my hands from the suds and
ran into the back room where the children
slept

And Marjory was playing in the kitchen T
Ah ! I never thought of Marjory she returned,
in a shamed voice. * I thought she had
been quieter than usual during the last half-hour,
but I never went to the door to call her,
as I generally did, to make sure she was safe ;
and I fear  I very much fear she had strayed
into the high-road, as she was a daring sort of
child, and there the tramp must have found her.
It was naughty of her to run out, for she had
no hat or cloak on ; but she had done it once
before  she and Sissie together  for play. I was
with Sissie some time  for she was feverish and
fractious, and would not be left  and then I
went into the kitchen to look for Marjory.
There were her bricks and doll under the table
they called their chubby-house ; but I found one
of the bricks afterwards by the gate, and another
lying outside in the road, which prove what I
said  but no trace of the child anywhere.
VOL. I. 7

Well, sir, you may judge how frightened I was,
and how I called '* Marjory! Marjory!" until
I was hoarse ; and then all at once I remembered
the pedlar woman, and then I got nearly
crazy with terror. Well, I searched everywhere,
and I got my neighbours to help me ;
but none of them had seen the child. The
woman had called at several houses in the
village, and had regaled herself at the ale-house,
but that was before she came to my cottage. No
one had seen her afterwards, and no one had
noticed Marjory. I walked miles that day, and
questioned everyone I met. We applied at the
police-station  at least, one of the men did
when he came home from work ; for I was too
much out of my wits to do much more than
pace the roads, calling out to the child ; and, to
make a long story short, from that day to
yesterday I never came across a trace of Marjory,
though I heard long afterwards that a
woman answering to the description had been
seen in a waggon going towards London, but
there was apparently no child with her.'

It is very strange,' observed Mr. Frere
thoughtfully, as the woman paused with a weary
air, as though her narrative had exhausted her.

 Surely you must have seen our advertisements,
or the police must have identified the
child ?'

I did answer one advertisement she replied
despondently, * but the child they brought to me
was not Marjory ; and soon after I had brain-fever
with the worry, and for weeks I lay without
sense. Some cousins of mine, hosiers in
Whitechapel, took me away after that, and I
lived with them till I met Ephraim Chard ; and
he made me promise to marry him, and then
we went down to Whitecliffe, where we live
now.'

You must give me time to make all possible
inquiries,' observed Mr. Frere, as she paused
again and seemed to wait for him to speak.
Your story is very clear, and I am sure that
the tramp who brought Marjory into our garden
on that Christmas Eve must have been the same
as your pedlar-woman.'

 Christmas Eve!' she repeated eagerly. ' That
would not be so many days after I lost Marjory.
Her birthday was on the 18th of December
;' and she listened intently with breathless
interest as Mr. Frere briefly narrated how his
sister had found the child.

72

You must let me consider what is to be
done,' he finished. * I shall be glad if 3'ou will
allow a week to elapse before you ask for our
decision

You are welcome to that,' she answered
civilly. * I am staying with my cousins now,
and Ephraim is coming up to fetch me ; to tell
you the truth, sir, my husband is a near man,
and not over-fond of children. I am not so sure
that he will be glad I have found Marjory.'

I dare say we shall be able to arrange something
satisfactory to all parties,' returned Mr.
Frere a little impatiently, for he wanted to get
rid of the woman and to be left alone with Anne.
Mrs. Chard seemed to understand this, for she
rose, and without asking to see Marjory again,
took her leave.

I will not see her again until things are more
settled,' she said, when Mr. Frere asked if she
wished Marjory to be fetched ; 'she did not seem
to take to me, and I am too much agitated to
bear any more ;' and then she curtsied and
withdrew.

Oh, Capel, I am afraid it is true, and that
she is Marjory's mother !' exclaimed poor Anne,
when the front door had closed on Mrs. Chard.

 She seems civil-spoken and respectable, but I do
not like her somehow ; there is not a true ring
about her.'

There is only one flaw in her evidence
that I can see,' returned her brother, pacing the
room uneasily : ' how can our advertisement have
escaped the local police? And there is another
thing '  with a start  ' do you not think it
strange, Anne, that the woman should not have
pawned the beads as well as the shoes T

This seemed to puzzle Anne also.

Perhaps she meant to do so, only some
sudden difficulty made her part with the child
too quickly ; most likely the police were after
her for some theft. Do jou know, Capel, the
clasp that confined the beads was so concealed
and so difficult to unfasten that I was obliged tolet
Marjory sleep in them for two or three nights
before I could master it at all ; and every time I
tried, Marjory cried and struggled and made such
a fuss.'

She may have done the same when the
beggar wife touched her,' replied Mr. Frere,
rather struck by this, ' or she may have found the
clasp too hard for her clumsy fingers ; and after
all, the beads are more curious than valuable.'

Shall you go down to Chigwell to make
inquiries T asked Anne, with a sigh.

Yes, tomorrow; and perhaps you would like
to go with me ? Do not look so unhappy, Anne,
my dear. I begin to see a way out of our difficulties.
If Ephraim Chard objects to children,
he may consent to our adoption of Marjory.'

I am glad, at least, that Marjory's name will
not be Chard,' observed Anne grudgingly, for she
had taken an unreasonable dislike to the woman.

I do not see that Deane is much better,'
returned her brother drily ; and then Marjory's
entrance into the room hindered any further
discussion.

AT THE BLUE BOAR.

F course, x\nne accompanied her brother
to Chigwell ; she was one of those
 innocent meddling women who loved
to occupy themselves with other people's business.
She had a sort of faith in her own instincts, that
made her believe that things would not progress
so well without her. ' Men are all very well in
their way,' she would say, with a shrewd nod of
her head, ' but they have an objection to details.
Capel would not pick up a pin if it lay before
his eyes ; I have been his pin-gatherer all our
joint lives.'

Mr. Frere did not object to her company ; he
always loved to have her with him on all
occasions. But of course he thought, in his masculine
wisdom, that he could have managed

things in about half the time without her. She
wasted a precious half-hour, for example, by mere
sentimentality. Who on earth but Anne would
have insisted on their making a pilgrimage to the
very cottage from whence Marjory had been
stolen, that she might see with her own eyes
the birthplace of Iiqy inotcgcc ; the very red-tiled
kitchen where she had played with her bricks in
the chubby-house under the table ; and the little
path between the gooseberry bushes where her
truant feet had strayed that memorable day, in
her eagerness to seek a forbidden world  so like
Marjory  so like wilful Marjory !

On his part, Mr. Frere would have been quite
content with inspecting the baptismal register,
when he had found the entry ' Marjory Lilies
Deane and with the facts that he had contrived
to glean from the parish clerk, the mistress of the
Blue Boar, and one or two of Mrs. Chard's old
neighbours who could afford him any information.

Mrs. Whelks, the rosy-faced owner of the
Blue Boar, gave him the most satisfactory particulars;
the woman who had owned the cottage
adjoining Mrs. Chard's had lately left the neighbourhood,
and no one quite knew what had
become of her.

Jenny Wheeler  that was the body's name
 and Miriam Deane were rare cronies observed
Mrs. Whelks, as she filled a tall, old-fashioned
glass with foaming ale and handed it to Mr.
Frere. There was no one but himself in the
snug bar, for Anne was still talking to the
garrulous clerk in the church porch, so he and
the rosy checked landlady became quite confidential.


Miriam  that is Mrs. Deane  was a little
high,' continued Mrs. Whelks, ' and was not
what you would call neighbourly  I think her
ladies had spoiled her. And then Eobert's roving
ways soured her a bit. She lived mostly alone
like after he was gone ; no one but Jenny ever
crossed her threshold. But we would see her at
church with the children  pretty, well-behaved
little creatures they were, too, dressed alike in
their white pelisses and sun-bonnets. Jenny has
told us since that Miriam was that proud of
them, you could not have told which was her
own child.'

It was evident Mrs. Whelks loved the sound
of her own voice ; her narrative soon became
colloquial, and the ' I says ' and ' she says,' so
dear to the uneducated classes, soon garnished

lier speech freely. Mr. Frere found himself
compelled to interpose an abrupt question, ora
brusque reminder that time to gentlemen of
his calibre was a valuable commodity ; now and
then he took out his watch and looked at it
gravely. By these salutary measures he contrived
by the end of half an hour to extract all
he needed from the good woman.

Mrs. Chard's story received full corroboration.

Mrs. Whelks well remembered the time when
Eobert Deane first brought his young wife home,
and how somebody had set the bells ringing,
and how her own goodman had said to her that
very day: ' 'Now, Peggy, folks won't talk so
much of your red cheeks, so you needn't be so
proud of them, lass ; there's Bob Deane brought
home a rare handsome wench, that has no more
colour than an image, and there's our Jakes '*
that's the ostler, sir  ** says it is a pleasure
only to look at her.' "

She had much to say also on the subject of
Eobert Deane's iniquities. His wife had smoothed
matters over a little ; he had been evidently a
mauvais sujet, a ne'er-do-weel, as Mrs. Whelks
called him. He was a strong 3'oung fellow, but
he did not love work ; he was always idling

round at the Blue Boar. He and his father
quarrelled at last  the old blacksmith cut up
rough, as the landlady phrased it  and Robert
marched off, declaring he would have nothing
more to do with the concern ; and a month afterwards
he had taken his passage for Australia.

Well, she was better without him, if she
would only have believed it,' went on Mrs.
Whelks ; * but you can't get a woman to own
that, however brutally her husband may treat
her. And Jenny says she fretted dreadfully
about it all ; and when the news of his death
came she was like a wild thing, just crazy with
grief, only the children's pretty ways brought
her round.'

With regard to Marjory's disappearance, there
was little that anyone could tell. Mrs. Wheeler
had gone away for three or four days, and had
left the key of her cottage with Mrs. Deane, so
her testimony was wanting. Mrs. Whelks was
only just recovering from her confinement, but
her husband had been in the bar that day, and
had served out three-pennyworth of rum to a
pedlar woman, for she had unstrapped her
basket and placed it on the counter, and had
shown him some of her wares. Mrs. Toosey,

the butcher's wife, had bought a comb and a
ribbon, and Emma Grubbing, from Hollytree
Farm, had also purchased a brass thimble and
some grey cotton ; but neither of them had liked
the look of the woman, and Emma always vowed
she had cheated her of sixpence.

When the news reached the Blue Boar that
Miriam Deane's little Marjory was missing, there
had been a great commotion in the village. Mr.
Frere seemed to see it all without Mrs. Whelks's
graphic description. Everyone was talking at
once ; the few rustics were gaping and scratching
their heads under the portico of the Blue Boar,
without wit or sense except to stare and do
nothing. Miriam was rushing up and down,
with half a dozen children and dogs at her heels ;
and Anthony Whelks and ' our Jakes ' were
pondering the matter heavily, long before they
made up their minds to harness Grey Made to
a light cart and just go a mile or two along the
London road.

If they had only been quicker in their movements
Mr. Frere was sure that they must have
overtaken the woman before she had come up
with the waggon, unless she had crept behind
some hedge or haystack ; as it was. Grey Made

trotted nearly to London before Jakes gave up
the search in despair ; it was not until evening
that a carter had come into the Blue Boar for a
tankard of ale, and had described a woman that
he had seen perched up on the top of the waggon,
but as far as he could see there was no child
with her.

After this there was very little satisfactory
information to be extracted ; the local police
had done their work inefficiently, and no trace
of the woman or child had been discovered.
Jenny "wheeler had been called away to London
to nurse a dying sister, and during her absence
little Sissie, the other child, had been fetched
away by a lady, and after this Miriam Deane
had been attacked by brain fever.

She was badly ill  at death's door, I have
been told,' continued the landlady. * It was as
much as Betty Morgan could do to keep her in
bed when the fits came on, though Betty is a
powerful woman, but a trifle deaf. What do
you say, sir ?'  for Mr. Frere was trying to
interpose a question here  * What has become
of Betty ? Why, dead, sir  dead this twelvemonths
; but she always did say that the
toughest bit of work she ever did in her life

and Betty was no chicken  was nursing poor
Miriam Deane.'

I suppose,' observed Mr. Frere thoughtfully,
as she actually paused for breath, * that it was
owing to her illness that Mrs. Deane failed to
see my advertisement ?'

Some of us saved them for her,' returned
Mrs. Whelks. ' I know the moment she got
strong she went up to London, for she told
Betty that she thought the London police had
some clue. She saw two or three children, I
believe. Licked, she made more than one
journey to London, but always came back disappointed.
She was never the same woman
after her illness. She used to shake and call
out if anyone spoke to her suddenly. She could
not abide her cottage without the children  for
she pined after Sissie as much as after her own
child  and so she sold all her bits of things,
and went to her cousin in Whitechapel. Somebody
was saying the other day that they heard
she had married again. Oh, indeed, sir ; it is
the truth, is it ? Well, and what better could
she do ?  being a pretty young woman, and
lonesome, and without chick or child, as they
say. Must you be going, sir ? Well, I think

I have told you all I knew myself. There is
Eager Knowles with the lady standing in the
porch. Better let me make the lady a cup of
tea, for she looks fagged and poorly like.'

As Anne was thankful for the tea, and quite
pleased at the idea of a chat with the comely
landlady, Mr. Frere promised to call for her in
half an hour, and set out for the forge and the
butcher's shop ; but though the people were
civil, and anxious to tell him all they knew, that
was little enough to the purpose.

But he had already verified the salient points
of Mrs. Chard's story, and he knew that she had
not lied to him. She had told it in a consistent,
straightforward manner, keeping strictly to the
sequence of events, and saying little about her
own feelings. She had been brief, too, on the
subject of her husband's faults, though he discovered
now that they were heinous ; but she
had shown repressed agitation at the very mention
of his name.

Depend upon it, she cared more for that
scapegrace, Robert, than she does for her present
husband,' he observed, as they walked
towards the station in the cool of the evening.
What was it she said about Ephraim Chard 

that he was near, and hated children ? Very
well, Anne, my dear. Now to open negotiations
with Marjory's stepfather.'

Anne shuddered.

You have sufficient proofs, Capel, that Mrs.
Chard is really Marjory's mother ?'

We cannot well ask for more,' was the grave
rejoinder ; and then for a little time they were
both silent.

Anne was making up her mind to the worst
long before they reached home. Her Christmas
gift must be given up  her child was to be hers
no longer ; and though, after a time, her fears
were modified, and Marjory still remained with
her adopted mother, still from that day a shadow
had fallen over Anne's perfect satisfaction  the
fulness of her content was slightly marred.
Marjory could never be quite her own with a
living mother in the background. In spite of
Mrs. Chard's solemn asseverations to the contrary,
a time might come when she would
claim her, or the child might turn round in
sheer wilfulness with a plea for her natural
parents.

 Nature is nature, and, after all, Marjory is
not our own flesh and blood,' she would say

anxiously, vhen Mr. Frere scouted this notion
with indignation.

When Mrs. Chard paid her promised visit she
did not come alone. Her husband accompanied
her.

Ephraim Chard was certainly not well-favoured.
He was a tall, dark, saturnine
man, with eyes set rather closely together, and
a heavy jowl that denoted obstinacy.

His appearance was fairly respectable. He
looked an ordinary type of a small tradesman intolerably
good circumstances. His coat was
black and glossy, he had gold watch and chain,
and his wife wore a silk dress which cast Anne's
grey stuff gown in the shade. They had evidently
done their best to make an imposing
appearance.

I have brought my husband, sir, because he
wished to be present at our interview,' began
Mrs. Chard timidly.

It struck Mr. Frere at once that her manner
was more nervous and flurried, and that she was
undoubtedly in some trepidation at what her
husband might say.

I should like to hear what you have to tellus,'
returned Ephraim Chard, in a loud, harsh

VOL. I. 8

voice. * My wife makes a rare muddle of things
when she is left to herself, and so I thought I
had better come with her and put in a word
when needful. You have been down to Chigwell,
sir  so I suppose you have found it all
right about the child T

Mr. Frere gave him a brief summary of their
visit.

As far as I am concerned, I am quite satisfied
in my own mind that Mrs. Chard has every
right to claim Marjory.'

There, Ephraim, I told you so !' observed
his wife, and a red spot of excitement came to
her cheeks.

But Ephraim 's reply to this was a decided
scowl.

That will do,' he said rather roughly ; and
then, addressing Mr. Frere :

You see, sir, the fact is, me and my wife have
been having words about the child. AVhen I
married Miriam I made up my mind that the
girl was as good as lost, and never troubled my
head about her. Children were never much in
my line, and I never had a fancy for bringing
up another man's child. I took up with my
wife as now is because she had no troublesome

belongings, and I do not see that she has any
cause to be so vexed because I am not over-pleased
about her finding the child.'

 You would rather be without Marjory, in
fact ?' asked Mr. Frere, with assumed carelessness.


I would much rather by a long way,' returned
Ephraim eagerly ; and then he stopped,
and the two men slowly regarded each other.

There seems to me no difficulty in the whole
business. I am sure we can arrange matters to
please all parties,' observed Mr. Frere, after a
moment's consideration ; and true enough, before
another quarter of an hour elapsed, there was an
amicable arrangement.

Mrs. Chard, at her husband's instigation, and
evidently acting under compulsion, renounced all
formal rights to Marjory, and gave her sanction
to Anne's adoption of the child. Her sole condition
 and to this her husband made no objection
 was that Marjory should pay her an
annual visit, and remain at least a week with
her, and that she herself should be allowed the
privilege of seeing her child from time to time at
her own pleasure.

I shall not abuse my privilege,' she said rather

S 2

huskily. * I shall not often ask to see her as long
as she is well and happy. I know it is a fine
thing for Marjoiy to he under your care, for you
are bringing her up like a real lady, and
Ephraim and me are just plain people, and
could do little for her beyond giving her a
respectable education. Yes, it is hest as it is ;
and thank you kindly, Miss Frere, for all your
goodness to ni} Marjory. As long as I see her
sometimes, and have her all to myself once
a clear, I'm hound to he content, as Ephraim
says.' And with these words the matter was
settled.

Anne had thankfully acquiesced in Mrs.
Chard's modest terms. Both she and her
brother were fully satisfied with the existing
arrangements. Many parents before now had
suffered their children to he adopted hy wealthy
friends or relatives  it was only commonsense
on Mrs. Chard's part to sacrifice her
maternal feelings for the good of the child.
Anne would hiring her up carefully, give her an
excellent education, accustom her to the habits
of gentle-people, and leave her sufficient provision
at her death. Neither of them would
have been willing to give her into her step-father's

custody. He was decidedly a hard man, with
little consideration for anyone's feelings, and of
a selfish, grasping nature. His wife did not
appear at her ease with him  she was evidently
repressed and made timid by harsh usage ; and
a high-spirited child like Marjory, with a strong
will of her own, would have fared badly at his
hands. Marjory evinced a repugnance to him
from the first moment of introduction. She
would not go near him or hold out her hand ;
she glowered at them both sulkily from behind
Anne's chair, and not all Mr. Frere's remonstrances
or her mother's coaxing speeches could
induce her to relinquish her hold of Anne's
gown.

She will be a pretty handful one of these
days,' observed Ephraim Chard, with a shrug of
his shoulder. And then he bade his wife contemptuously
to cease all that palaver, for it
was time for them to be going.

Oh, Marjory ! how could you be so naughty?'
sighed Anne, quite shocked at the child's obstinacy,
for she had resisted kissing her mother to
the last.

I won't have mothers if I don't like,' returned
Marjory pettishly. ' And I would not

let that ugly man touch me  no, that I wouldn't!
And I don't care if I am naughty, not a bit
But Anne wisely took no notice of this wilful
speech, for she knew how useless it was to argue
with Marjory when one of these perverse moods
was on her. But from that day Marjory's wilfulness
increased ; it really seemed as though the
mere fact of her mother's existence threw a sort
of blight over her happiness. Her annual visits
to Whiteclijffe were always preceded by a week
or two of contrary moods, and she never
returned to them without bitter complaints from
her step father of her high and mighty ways,
and her unnatural behaviour to her poor
mother.

Marjory would shed floods of tears when
Anne reasoned with her on her unfeeling
conduct, but she would never own herself in
the wrong. She hated her step-father, and it
was odious to her to be brought in contact with
him. And she had very little respect or liking
for her mother ; and though, when she grew
older, a sense of decency prevented her from
carrying her antagonism into speech, and she
learned to conduct herself with outward civility,
still the breach remained unhealed, and her

visits to AYhitecliffe were quite as grievous to
her as when she was a wayward chill.

When her step-father died  which happened
when Marjory was seventeen  Anne hoped
that Marjory and her mother might he drawn
a little nearer together. Ephraim Chard had
never shown her any kindness, and most likely
the constant presence of such a man might he
intolerable to a girl like Marjory ; hut her
mother had always treated her with the utmost
consideration, giving way to all her whims and
fancies, petting and making much of her. ' In
fact, she would have made herself into a mat
for Marjory to wipe her feet on, if Marjory
Daw would have condescended so far,'
was Mr. Frere's sarcastic observation one
day.

But all this obsequiousness and kindly attention
on Mrs. Chard's part could not win the
child's heart. Marjory never willingly spoke of
her mother ; but now and then a chance word
showed Anne that she had formed a low
estimate of her mother's moral nature.

I wish I did not belong to her!' she said
once, very passionately, in Anne's hearing ; * it
maddens me sometimes to think I had not a

better father and mother. How am I to be
good, coming of such a stock T

My dear Marjory, you must not say such
things about your parents

My father was not good,' she returned
sorrowfully ' A good man would not have
refused to work, and run away from his wife
and child. And sometimes  oh, I am very
wicked, Anne  I feel as though my mother
were not good, too

My darling ; jou must not steak out such
thoughts, even to me.'

Why should I not speak as well as think
them ? Ought we not to be true  absolutely
true r

That were hardly possible in this world,
Marjory !'

It ought to be possible  it must be possible.
You would not have me a hypocrite

No, indeed!' with a smile into the sad,
earnest face. * You would make a very poor
hypocrite, I fear.'

 Yes, I should pretend badly ; but, do you
know, I think it comes naturally to my mother.
She was pretending the other day, when some
neighbours came in, that she was grieving for

Mr. Chard's death. She put her handkerchief
to her eyes, but I am sure she did not shed a
single tear. How could she, when she knows
in her heart that she is only too glad to be free T

But, my dear, Mr. Chard was her husband.
You would not have her rejoice openly at his
death  no woman worthy of the name would do
that!'

*No, but I would have her do nothing  neither
rejoice nor pretend to mourn. Of course, the
Rogers did not believe her any more than I did.
They know how unkind he was to her, and that
she is much happier without him.'

Yes ; but, Marjory, I do think you are very
severe on your poor mother. It was a very small
offence, just pretending to be sorry when a kind
neighbour called to condole with her on her
husband's death.'

Perhaps so,' returned Marjory slowly, ' but
then she is not altogether true in other things ;
she slurs over facts when she is telling them, and
somehow they never sound quite the same,
she twists them so. She says she forgets, and
makes mistakes ; but I know she often told
downright fibs to Mr. Chard, and he believed
her.'

Well, well, my dear, you must remember
her hard life aud many troubles; aud then she
was so afraid of her husband,' returned Anne,
not knowing exactly what to say; but, to her
great relief, Marjory changed the subject of her
owen accord.

Marjory had grown by this time into a striking-looking
girl. Her beauty was very peculiar in
its tjpe; indeed, many of her female acquaintances
would not allow that she could lay claim to
the word at all. She was uncommon-looking 
a fine girl, but that was all.

Mr. Frere and a few more admirers held quite
a different opinion.

Marjory was taller than most girls, but she
carried her height well. Her figure was graceful,
and her head was set remarkably well upon her
neck, and the carriage of the head and shoulders
was unusually fine.

She had a clear brown skin, and when she
was a little flushed her colouring would be
splendid. Her features were not remarkable in
any way, but she had a bright smile, and large
dark eyes that could be expressive at times.

Her forehead was low and broad, as one sees
in Greek statues, and her hair grew very closely

to her temples  it was this that gave her a
peculiar look. At first sight, it seemed to
strangers as though she was over-weighted with
her own hair ; there was such an abundance of
it that she had to coil it in heavy plaits around
her head, in opposition to the reigning fashion,
and in sombre moments or moods it seemed to
overshadow her face.

For the rest, she was just like any other
healthy, high-spirited English girl. She had a
tolerable stock of vanity, though it was not in
the least excessive ; had plenty of faults, and
a corresponding amount of virtues; had got
through the poetry-writing age without much
detriment ; had never once believed herself in
love, but was not quite sure ; and was at present
in that glorious state of discontent with herself
and her surroundings that high feeding and
dearth of hard work produces in an undisciplined
nature. But no complaint being possible under
such circumstances, she was driven by stress of
fair weather into interior storms to produce an
emotion ; and just now Marjory was longing for
something to happen, * for nothing ever does
happen at Muriel's End,' Marjory was fond
of saying to herself.

Muriel S END.

HEN Mr. Frere had left Marjory at the
gate of Muriel's End, on that March
ijjijsi afternoon when he had found her sitting
on a bench in the open road, with a strong east
wind blowing round her, seemingly impervious
to all but her own thoughts, she had paused
for a moment at the gate as though unwilling to
leave him without a softer word than she had yet
spoken. She was in one of her contrary moods,
and at such times any utterance of soft words
seemed well-nigh impossible to her. Nevertheless,
she would have constrained herself to
speak in some sort of conciliatory fashion, only
he gave her no opportunity of doing so ; on the
contrary, he had nodded to her in his usual
careless good-humoured way, and had set his

face towards the town, whistling to his dog ashe
went. The girl walked on slowly and a little
sadly, as though she were disappointed.

He will pretend not to care,' she said to
herself, * but I know that I hurt him when I
shut myself up and do not respond to his kindness.
Oh, how good he is ! he never will
quarrel with me, however badly I behave. If he
would only not joke with me, when he sees my
heart is sore ! But that is just what I say 
neither of them understand. Because they are
satisfied with their life, they think it must content
me ; but you might as well ask the squirrel to be
content with his revolving cage. I think if he
were asked to choose he would prefer the woods
and liberty, and the nuts he found for himself
before he cracked them. All my nuts are ready
cracked for me, and somehow they lose their
flavour in that way.'

Here she shrugged her shoulders, with a
curious little smile, and quickened her steps.

Muriel's End was a low, red-brick house,
with a shady veranda running round it. The
three sitting-rooms, that all communicated with
each other, had French windows opening out on
it. The garden was very pretty. The well-kept

lawn was bordered by rare shrubs and beds
of azaleas and rhododendrons, making a gorgeous
background of colour in their season of bloom in
early spring. There were beds of golden and
violet pansies, to be replaced later by the deeper
tints of verbena and geraniums. Roses climbed
up the veranda and twined round the porch,
and behind the house was a rather small secluded
lawn, and a long shady path leading
to the conservatory, where Anne planted her
favourite ferns and grew periwinkles and white
harebells and tall foxgloves, and many old-fashioned
flowers that would have been banished
from the gay parterres in front. This was
called ' Anne's Walk,' and old Andrew Penrose,
the gardener, was not allowed even to extract a
weed from those cherished borders.

As Marjory walked up the carriage-drive the
French-window belonging to the morning-room
was opened lightly, and Anne's neat little figure
and beckoning hand were clearly visible between
the shrubs.

Marjory frowned, but she crossed the lawn
obediently nevertheless. Some unwelcome visitor
would be waiting for her, she feared, to
prevent her escaping to her own room.

 Oh, Marjory, where have you been all the
afternoon ?' exclaimed Anne. ' And Capel has
gone out in this bitter wind to look for you 
and this morning he was complaining of feeling
a twinge of rheumatism in his shoulder.'

He might have sent the town-crier instead,'
returned Marjoiy scornfully, * ** Lost, stolen,
or strayed for the last two hours and a half, and
most likely an odd five minutes, an extremely
valuable young lady." Oh, Mrs. Curwin, I did
not see you were there!' and Marjory broke off
her ironical speech to shake hands with a stout,
comely-looking woman ; but there was no smile
on her face as she did so.

Mrs. Curwin has been waiting to see jou for
the last half-hour,' returned Anne, with gentle
reproach in her voice. ' She wants us to go to
the Yicarage on Thursday evening to meet a
few friends. Have we any engagements for
that day, Marjory T

Marjory reflected gravely for a moment.

Let me see : this is Monday. Then tomorrow
we dine at the Buttenshaws' ; on Wednesday
5ou have asked Mrs. Huskisson and Miss
Carpenter to dine here ; and the Pikes have fixed
Saturday '

Then Thursday is a free day,' replied Anne,
who was watching her face anxiously.

It would have been free, undoubtedly,' returned
Marjory, in a pointed tone ; but here Mrs.
Curwin interposed in a breathless voice  she
was one of those good-natured, fussy women
who could do nothing quietly, and she always
spoke in breathless, disjointed sentences :

 So good of you, Marjory ! Sophy and The
will be delighted  my girls are so fond of you.
Just a little music and conversation  our new
curate, Mr. Erskine, to be introduced  a most
charming man, my dear. A little high, perhaps
; but, as Mr. Curwin says, they all begin
so. It is just youth and inexperience. He
will come right in time ; they all do  the swing
of the pendulum, as Mr. Curwin says. I'll tell
the girls Thursday, then. But now I must runaway
 yes, positively, my dear Miss Frere.
There is a sad case. George Felon has broken
the pledge, and has been drinking again. I
have been looking out that invaluable tract,
' Buy your own Cherries." I must leave it
with George as I go back. Ah, you are laughing,
Marjory ! You always laugh at my tracts,
you naughty girl 1 but a word in season, you

know  as Mr. Curwin always says. But there,
you must not keep me ! On Thursday, then ?
Very well ; my girls will be charmed !'

And Mrs. Curwin bustled out of the room,
talking to Anne as she went.

Marjory's face looked decidedly cross as she
threw off her hat and jacket.

How I do detest that woman !' she thought.
Tracts and fuss ! No wonder her step-daughters
find it hard to tolerate her. Sophy
has too much sense to be smothered by such a
moral feather-bed. How can Anne be so civil
to her ? And now for another purgatorial evening
at the Vicarage. I hate the very sight of
that house !'

Anne looked a little grave as she re-entered
the room, but for the moment she said nothing
only rang for tea and busied herself with
collecting Marjory's wraps and carrying them
out into the hall ; for she was a tidy little soul,
and these offences against the minor morals
were endless pin-pricks to her. Then she stirred
the fire, until the pleasant glow lit up the whole
room ; and when Mackay brought in the tea-things,
she poured Marjory out a cup of tea and
placed it gently within her reach.

VOL. I. 9

You are tired or dreaming, my dear,' she
said, in lier soft voice, as Marjory roused herself
as though she were a little ashamed, and
thanked her. ' Our good friend who has just
left us, did not meet with a very warm reception
from you.'

Marjory wrinkled her forehead until her hair
and eyebrows met. It gave, her a curious, old-womanish
look.

Mrs. Curwin ? Oh, she is too tiresome ! I
am not particularly partial to either Sophy or
Tlieo, but I must say I feel sorry for them.
Fancy Mr. Curwin, who is a clever man in his
way, bringing home a woman like that to be
mistress of his house !'

She makes him a very good wife,' returned
Miss Frere in an equable voice. ' He is far happier
than when Sophy tyrannized over him. They
are very well-principled young women, but they
have unfortunate tempers. Mrs. Curwin maybe
a little lacking in common-sense  she is certainly
not a strong-minded woman  but she is
good-natured, and, on the whole, I do not dislike
her  neither does Capel, though he does
make fun of her tract-giving.'

You might have made an excuse for me on

Thursday observed Marjory fretfully. 'You
know how I dislike these evenings at the Vicarage.
There will be no one of my own age. Sophy
and Theoo are middle-aged themselves, and so
they do not care for young people. I wish you
would let me stay at home sometimes with Mr.
Frere. I am tired to death of the people about
here !' and as Anne only sighed and made no
answer, Marjory leant back in her chair and
clasped her hands over her head with a gesture
of utter weariness.

Woodleigh Down is just like a rabbit
warren,' she continued. ' We pop in and out
of each other's holes towards evening ; in the
morning we are too busy burrowing in our own
holes. Mr. Frere and I were counting up the
other da' how many widows and widowers and
old maids lived on the Down, and how few young
people.'

Yes, indeed ; I wish for your sake it were
otherwise,' returned Anne, in a resigned manner,
for this was an old grievance with Marjory.

I am afraid so much dissipation this week
will quite indispose me for the perfect retirement
of Whitecliffe,' went on Marjory, in the same
sarcastic voice ; ' the Buttenshaws are comparable



lively youthful  I do not think they are more
than fifty  but Mrs. Huskisson and Miss Carpenter
are staid old ladies ; and the Pikes,
father and daughter, are simply bores. Oh,
Anne, how can you be happy with such people
round you ?'

 My dear,' responded x\nne, in rather a huffed
tone, ' you are finding fault with some of my
best friends. Mrs. Huskisson is a dear old lady,
and her sister Charlotte is one of the most noblewomen
I have ever known. Mr. Pike is a clever,
amusing old man, and Capel delights in him ;
and as for Miss Render, she is a good creature
with no harm in her.'

No harm  I call that meagre praise.'

It is a favourite amusement with you,
Marjory,' returned Anne, in a hurt voice, 'to
find fault with our friends ; there are pleasant
people on the Down  the Forwards and the
Arnold and the Bassenthwaites, and I am sure
Mrs. Walford is charming.'

I * Oh, I will grant you that  both Mrs. Walford
and NelHe '

And there is Mr. Brooks, of Beechen  I
suppose you do not class a handsome widower
of thirty-five amongst the old fogies ?' but

Marjory made a little face at the mention of
this name. Mr. Brooks had called rather often
at Muriel's End lately, only the gossips on the
Down were not quite sure whether he did not
call quite as often at Parkside, where pretty
Nellie Walford lived with her widowed mother.
When a man has four little motherless girls, it
behoves him to be extremely careful in what
direction he turns his steps when he has made
up his mind to take a second wife ; and Marjory
and Nellie were rival beauties, the other young
ladies on the Down being decidedly mature in
age, and not especially favoured with good looks.
Woodleigh Down might be healthy,' as Marjory
once wickedly observed, * but it somehow disagreed
with very young people.'

Oh dear,' sighed Anne, as Marjory put on
her provoking expression, * Capel and I must
be growing old, or you would not shelve us in
our sprightly middle-age as though we had ceased
to belong to your generation ; and yet, in someways,
Capel is the youngest of us all  age and
grey hairs do not always go together.'

As though I do not know that,' returned
Marjory scornfully ; ' compared with you I feel
a sort of female Methuselah ;' and then, with a

sudden transition from irony to pathos, which
was natural to her quicksilver temperament, she
said penitently, ' Oh, how I wish I were more
like you, Anne ; you are always so good and
pretty and well-behaved  you never let people
see when they bore you

This made Anne smile, but she answered a
little quaintly :

But I am not sure that they do bore me; on
the contrary, I find even the most commonplace
people amusing.'

Even our worthy friend Mrs. Curwin ?'

Undoubtedly Mrs. Curwin is extremely dull;
and sometimes I often enjoy a good laugh at her
expense. Study of character is my hobby,
Marjory ; as you know, I am exceedingly fond
of my fellow-creatures  human nature is always
interesting. You have to dig very far below the
surface sometimes before you find a trace of the
real metal, but there is good in everyone if you
only start with that belief.'

That is just what I cannot do,' returned
Marjory dejectedly; 'when you laugh at people,
Anne, it does not seem to hurt them : you are
loving them all the time, even the stupid, fussy
ones ; but I feel as though I want to push them

all away from me. I long to say to them what
I should say out loud if we were in the Palace
of Truth : "Go away, you people, you are all
stupid and tiresome and matter of fact ; you say
just the same things one after another: you have
no individuality, no characteristic hut general
dulness." I want persons with whom I can
exchange ideas, and be in sympathy. I  oh
surely, Anne, the world is a big place, and there
must be nice people if one could only get at
them!'

Anne laughed at this girlish outburst.  You
are restless, Marjory,' she said, in an indulgent
tone ; * sou are discontented because
you are young and do not know what trouble
is.'

I think monotony and ennui are as bad as
any trouble,' returned Marjory stubbornly ; and
then she softened in an instant, and wrapped
her arms caressingly round Anne.  Oh, how
disagreeable I am to-day ; it must be the east
wind, as Mr. Frere says ; do not mind what I say.
I am never tired of you  I never shall be ; but
there is a warp in my nature somewhere. We
will not talk any more until I feel good. Oh !
how late it is  nearly six ! and Nellie will be

looking for me, and I have not changed my
dress.'

Pain away, dear, and make all the haste you
can,' responded Anne cheerfully; I had quite
forgotten your invitation to Parkside.' And as
Marjory's graceful figure disappeared she said to
herself, with a sigh, ' It will do her good; Nellie
is natural and girlish, and she will laugh her out
of these fancies ;' hut, notwithstanding, there
was a careful, almost a troubled look on Anne's
face as she sat alone in the twilight  a look that
had come to her of late, as though she felt the
brooding of some cloud that threatened her
domestic peace.

But she assumed a sprightly air as soon as
she heard her brother's latch-key turning in the
lock  her ear was so well trained that she detected
in a moment that his footstep flagged a
little as though he were tired. It was impossible
for the fire to blaze more brightly, his armchair
stood already in the snuggest and warmest
corner, his papers and reading-lamp were ready
to his hand ; there was nothing more that she
could find to do for his comfort, so she sat still
and smiled her welcome as he opened the door.

It is a confounded east wind,' he began ; and

then be stopped, and looked round the room.

Why, where is Marjory T

She is dining at Parkside this evening. Mrs.
Walford asked her. I believe Mr. Brooks is to
be there, and Nellie wants to sing duets with
her.'

'how happy should I be with either, were
t'other dear charmer away," ' replied Mr. Frere
sarcastically. ' I suspect that would be Mr.
Brooks's feelings if we were to ask him ; it is a
toss up which of the two girls he admires most.'

Oh ! I don't know,' returned Anne, with alla
woman's seriousness at approaching such an
interesting topic ; ' he has been" here twice already
this week, and they have not seen him at Park-side.
Nellie is very pretty  she is a sweet girl,
Capel  but surely you will not compare her to
our Marjory.'

I, my dear ? I was under the impression we
were discussing Brooks's preferences.'

Well, you know what I mean, Capel,' in a
rather provoked tone.

Do we ever know what a woman means ?'
he responded, warming his hands comfortably.

Well, Beechen is a capital house. I only
wish we had the same view from our back

windows ; and he has furnished it in the orthodox
high-art style. Brooks is no Philistine ; to be
sure, the four little flaxen pig-tails might scare
some girls of twenty ; but as Brooks is a good-looking
fellow, they might tolerate even them for
his sake. Marjory does not exactly strike me asa
very fitting person for a step-mother, but we all
know your good sense, Anne, my dear, and it is
evident that you think differently in Marjory's
case. I should find the pig-tails extremely" trying.*

How you run on !' observed Anne pettishly ;
it does not follow that because Mr. Brooks
admires Marjory she is bound to accept him.'

To be sure, that is a very true observation.'

Yes ; but do be quiet a moment, or 3'ou will
go away with all sorts of absurd notions in your
head. I do not believe, myself, that Mr. Brooks
has made up his mind which girl he prefers 
most likely the one who gives him the most
encouragement will turn the scale in the
end.'

Then it will not be Marjory, for she does not
care for a hair of his head,' rejoined Mr. Frere,
with alacrity.

Have you noticed that, Capel ?' returned his
sister, astonished at this shrewd remark. ' I

thought men never took much heed of these Httle
affairs ; they belong more to our province.'

You are right there with great briskness,
with the exception of afternoon tea, I do not
think there is anything an old maid enjoys more
than a love affair.'

Now you are rude, Capel, and I will not talk
to you any more. Really it must be the east
wind, as the child remarked just now.'

Did she say that ? ' and now his manner
became more serious in a moment. ' Anne, my
dear, we will not discuss the Brooks episode
any more at present  most likely he is only
flirting four passer k temps  there is time enough
to talk about it when he has made up his mind
which of the two young ladies he really prefers ;
and, if he take my advice, he will dismiss all
idea of Marjory Daw. She might treat the pigtails
like Sampson's foxes when she got into a
tantrum with Papa Brooks. Faugh ! the idea
sickens me. Brooks, too, the most matter-of-fact
prosaic fellow, with only two ideas  making-money
and spending it.'

Capel, you are not a bit more charitable in
your estimate of people than Marjory'' ; everyone
on the Down likes poor Mr. Brooks.'

'Poor Mr. Brooks!' he reiterated; but it
struck Anne that there was an underlying trace
of bitterness in his manner. * Depend upon it
that fellow was born to nothing but luck. He
marries a woman with lots of money and a
decided temper; Providence, in due course of
time, releases him of the woman and leaves him
the money. He is now free, with a pocket full
of experience, and a world full of pretty faces out
of which to choose. A burnt child dreads the
lire. If Marjory shows him a grain of her
temper, it will be all up with her chance.'

I thought, Capel, that we were to dismiss the
Brooks episode from our conversation.'

Mr. Frere reddened slightly at this home
thrust.

'It was your fault,' he returned, rather crossly;
you flung the firebrand, and so, of course, it
will keep smouldering afresh. When I came in
I was tired, and wanted to talk to you about a
very different subject.'

Well, dear, and you have only to speak, as
you know, and I will gladly listen to you ; ' and,
as usual, her gentleness disarmed his rising
wrath in a moment.

You are a good soul, Anne. Dear, dear,

what east windy mortals we are. I do believe
I was almost cross with you. Well, I had it
in my mind to speak to you about Marjory ; the
girl is not quite like herself. I think she finds
our life dull, and wants a change

I hope you have not told her so, Capel ?
And Anne's forehead contracted with a sudden
line of anxiety.

I have told her nothing ; not even that I
mean to go with her to Whitecliflfe on Wednesday.'


And you have fully made up your mind
about that T

If you have no objection,' he returned, with
a forced smile. ' Marjory is your child ; so, of
course, we must ask your august permission.
Seriously, Anne, there is no need to subject the
girl to so severe a penance. A week spent in
that woman's company is too heavy an infliction
for Marjory's excitable temperament ; she will
be happier to know one of us is in the place.
I shall take rooms at the Crown, and tell
Mrs. Chard that my health requires sea-air.
Of course she will want me to occupy her best
bedroom, and of course I shall decline. I have
no faith in Mrs. Chard ; and a sense of honour

as absurd as it is absolute will not suffer me to
accept her hospitality. I can take Marjory out
for a walk, or she will know where to find me,
if she wants me. There is some good in being
an idle man after all  one can benefit one's
fellow creatures sometimes.'

 Capel, no wonder Marjory is always talking
about your goodness to her ; you spoil her
even more than I do. I am hard-hearted
enough to think that even a week's dulness will
not hurt her.'

 It is my theory that young things ought to
be happy. Dulness is only for middle-aged
people, like you and me, Anne.'

And that is why I am to be left in solitude
next week,' she said, with a natural touch of
soreness. But the next moment she asked him,
with much sweetness, if he would not write to
secure rooms for himself. ' Never mind, dear ;
I was only joking,' as he looked at her in
rather a crestfallen manner. * The change will
do you good, and I am fur too busy now to feel
dull. Mackay and I will set about our spring
cleaning ; and really, I shall be thankful to
have your den put in order. So it is nicely
arranged for me as well as Marjory.'

So Anne talked on in her usual blithe
fashion, and her brother never knew that a
sudden thought, as painful as it was unwelcome,
had darted into her mind  a transient flash
that had gone in a moment. * He is everything
to me ' was the thought. ' I love them
both ; but of course he must come first. Will
the time ever come, I wonder, when I shall
cease to be first with him ? What if Marjory
my child Marjory  should come between us ?
I have heard of such things  but no ; it could
not be.'

What is it, Anne, my dear T asked her brother,
with a twinkle of lazy good-humour in his eyes,
as he noticed her abstraction.

Oh, nothing, Capel !' was the hasty reply.
It was only just a ' nonsense thought," as
baby Marjory used to say. It was gone as
soon as you spoke.'

All right. Then I will go and change my
coat for dinner,' was the cheerful rejoinder.
And he sauntered out of the room whistling a
bar of his favourite ' Bonnie Dundee a tune with
which he generally enlivened his toilet.

WHICH IS POPPLES ?'

Reside stood a little below Muriel's
(l End, on the opposite side of the
road, and Mrs. Walford's pretty
drawing-room commanded that view over Moor-bridge
which Mr. Frere so vainly coveted.
Marjory, who had lingered over her toilet more
in absence of mind than vanity, was a little
late, and the other guest, Mr. Brooks, had
already arrived and was talking to his hostess
and Nellie.

Nellie flashed across the room to meet her
friend with uplifted finger and a most reproachful
face.

'You naughty girl,' she said with a pout,
and no one could pout so prettily as Nellie
Walford. * What makes you so late ? Mamma

and I have been expecting you a whole
hour.'

Am I so very late ?' returned Marjory, with
nonchalance. ' I am so sorry, Mrs. Walford ;'
and then she stooped over her chair and kissed
her affectionately, and shook hands with Mr.
Brooks.

Miss Deane likes to be fashionable,' responded
that individual, with a smile. He was
a fair, well-bred man, with a heavy brown
moustache ; his hair had worn off his forehead
slightly, but in spite of this he was still very
young-looking, and no one but Mr. Frere ever
found fault with him. The young ladies on the
Down considered him singularly handsome, and
even the elder ones spoke of him as ' that poor
dear Mr. Brooks,' and hoped that he might one
day find some one worthy of him. It could not
be denied that Mr. Brooks played his vole of
interesting widower to perfection ; without being
exactly disconsolate, his voice and countenance
had just that tinge of melancholy that befitted
his sense of loneliness ; he never laughed, but
his smile was frequent and exceedingly pleasant.

When he appeared at church with his four
little girls, strangers invariably noticed him and

VOL. I. 10

pointed him out to each other  * Poor fellow,
how very sad !' they would say ; ' and how devoted
he seems to those children!' The four little
girls were not pretty children  their mother
had been a plain woman  hut their black ribbons
and solemn pale little faces were very effective.
Dora, the eldest, was a prim little girl, and gave
herself airs, spreading out her short skirts on
the cushions, and using her mother's big prayer-book
in exact imitation of that lads somewhat
lackadaisical manner; but Susie, the youngest,
a small roundabout child, with a comical face,
and staring blue eyes like a doll's, always kept
close to her father, and patted him softly from
time to time. ' One can see what an affectionate
father he is,' people would say, when Susie's
hot little hand grasped his lovingly.

Mr. Brooks certainly loved his children in a
quiet temperate fashion, but people were mistaken
if they supposed that they were perpetually in
their father's presence. 'With the exception of
this church-going, and half an hour in the morning,
and again in the evening, they were seldom
invited to beguile the solitude of those long
hours. When visitors were there, they came
down as a matter of course in their little white

frocks and black bows  Dora leading Susie, and
Ada and Popples following hand-in-hand. Mr.
Brooks would look at them and sigh, and
sometimes Susie, and even Popples, would be
lifted on his knee ; but he was a man who did not
understand children : it embarrassed him to keep
up a long conversation with them. They had
a tiresome habit, Ada especially, of asking
questions that he could not answer, especially
on Biblical subjects, and then regarding his
puzzled face with round critical eyes.

I don't believe papa knows,' Ada said once,
when she found herself outside the library door.
He only said "Humph, humph*' like a big bee,
when I asked him once if he were not sorry for
the poor devil  I am, because he is so wicked.
I do hate to be humbled at like that !'

 Of course, papa knows all the kings of Israel
and Judea by heart, only he could not remember
the name of David's grandson all of a sudden,
and you learnt it last Sunday. Papas always
know everything,' finished Dora, with the beautiful
faith of childhood.

But though Mr. Brooks found the company of
his children very embarrassing at times, he continued
to interlard his conversation with his

102

female friends  for he knew better than to bore
]his male hearers  with choice anecdotes concerning
one or other of his little girls.

Miss Frere always listened to him with much
interest, but she could be a little shrewd and
quizzical in her speeches, and Mr. Brooks stood
somewhat in awe of her. Mrs. Walford was a
more sympathizing auditor. She was a soft-spoken
placid woman, with few original ideas,
and she never made troublesome suggestions, or
gave him wholesome bracing advice, such as
Anne gave to her friends ; on the contrary, she
petted him, and talked to him in a caressing
way, as though he were her own son. ' Poor
little darlings ! it must be a heavy responsibility
for a man of your conscientious temperament,'
she would say, with unconscious flattery ; but
then it was always so natural to Mrs. Walford to
pet her jjrotegees after this fashion.

Nellie would never be quite so pretty as her
mother had been, but she had a charming English
face  candid and open. And then her complexion
was lovely, if her features were irregular.
No one found fault with her face ; she was
charming  that was generally allowed on all
sides.

Mr. Brooks looked at her and Marjory somewhat
critically that evening. If Anne had been
there, she would have said that he was seriously
comparing their merits. Marjory always looked
well of an evening. Both the girls wore white,
but Marjory's gown was made of a soft clinging
material that fell in graceful folds round her
figure, and it was trimmed with white fur, after
a somewhat quaint fashion. Marjory was fond
of dressing herself in a picturesque uncommon
way ; her gowns were never quite like other
people's, but seemed to belong to herself. Of
course, her detractors said that love of dress
was her besetting sin, and that she wasted much
time in studying effects ; but this was a libel.
Such things came intuitively to her ; but all the
same she would assert loudly, that one of a
woman's first duties was to make the best of
herself.

It could not be denied that Nellie, piquante
and sparkling as she was, looked just a little
ordinary beside Marjory to-night. The wind had
heightened Marjory's colour, and her eyes were
clear and bright ; the sullen mood had passed
away, and had only left a sort of recklessness
that seemed more like exuberant spirits. She

talked and laughed a little faster than usual, that
was all.

Mr. Brooks seemed fascinated, in spite of
himself. He spoke less to Nellie, and his eyes
followed Marjory's tall figure as she crossed and
recrossed the room. When the girls sang their
duets together, the tones of Marjory's fine contralto
seemed to drown Nellie's clear limpid
notes. Nellie's pretty fair hair seemed colourless
in the lamplight, beside those heavy brol
plaits that crowned Marjory's head. ' The little
Princess,' as her friends lovingly called her, was
almost eclipsed to-night.

 Come here, girls; you have sung enough,'
Mrs. Walford said at last, for to her maternal
eyes Nellie looked just a trifle pale. ' Take this
low chair beside me, Marjory dear  I want to
hear all about this evening at the Vicarage.'

There is not much to tell returned Marjory,
smiling to herself at the simple woman's
ruse to break the spell that kept Mr. Brooks
hovering round her chair. Nevertheless, she
seated herself obediently by her hostess. It was
not her fault that he at once followed her, and
took up his position on the rug, facing them
both. Nellie came up timidly by-and-by. It

was a little dull remaining at the other end of
the room, turning over the leaves of her music.
Besides, Mr. Brooks was talking about Popples,
and Nellie did so love children, and she was
especially fond of Popples.

Marjory was using her long Indian fan with
almost the grace of a Spaniard. She had a
small, well-shaped hand  not particularly white,
which was perhaps the reason why she never
wore rings ; but no one had ever seen a ring on
Marjory's slim fingers  and as she fanned herself,
she looked with bright, interested eyes at
Mr. Brooks. But as Nellie joined them, and
seated herself a little in the background, as
though she felt herself dc trop, Marjory darted a
swift, searching glance at her half averted face,
and immediately her manner changed, and the
soft expression of interest faded out of her
eyes.

Popples is a dear child,' observed Mrs.
Walford, when the anecdote had been retailed.


Yes, indeed,' sighed Nellie, who even at
this moment could not resist adding her testimony
to the virtues of the absent Popples.

Which is Popples ?' asked Marjory indifferently.

 Of course, I see them every Sunday at
church. Is it the pale one with the big prayer-book
? By-the-bye, Mr. Brooks, I wish you
would ask her to open and shut that liea\y clasp
less noisily. Or is it the little one with the
china-like eyes, like a wax doll? Do you know,'
with a little laugh  ' I often wonder if her
eyes ever will shut. Some dolls will not, you
know.'

Marjory's voice was very sprightly, but the
father felt himself a little wounded.

I thought you knew m} children, Miss
Deane,' he said, in a slightly aggrieved tone,
and his eyes were very reproachful. ' All Mr.
Curwin's congregation know my four little
girls by sight. Popples is the youngest but
one. She and Susie sit one on each side of
me.'

'Poor little loves!' observed Mrs. Walford,
as though she were invoking blessings on their
heads. ' So they do, the pretty dears ! and
everyone says how nicely they behave.'

It must be a little hot and distracting in
summer-time,' returned Marjory, arching her
eyebrows in an innocent fashion ; ' but then,
you see, I am not particularly fond of children.

I object to have my gowns trampled on by dusty
little boots ; and children, even the best of them,
will kick. Children are delightful in the abstract,
but close to one '

Here she gave an expressive shrug that sufficiently
completed the sentence.

Fie, my dear Marjory ! what unwomanly
sentiments !' exclaimed Mrs. Walford, quite
shocked at this speech.

Do not believe her, mamma,' returned
Nellie, with wonderful magnanimity under the
circumstances ; for had she not been cast into
the shade a whole evening on Marjory's account ?
She says these sort of things to plague people,
but she doesn't mean them in the least. She
was ever so good to Freddy Bassenthwaite
when he fell from the ladder and broke his
arm.'

Because I knew how bad a broken arm must
be,' answered Marjory, not a bit grateful for this
defence. * Anyone would have been kind to
the poor little fellow under the circumstances ;
but now he is well, I detest Freddy. I told his
mother one day he was a greedy little monkey,
and that I longed to box his ears. T often long
to box children's ears, and I am afraid I should

do it if I ever got the chance ; only mothers
are so stupid, they object to that sort of thing.
But then I never professed to care for children,'
finished Marjory, with aggravating
calmness.

Oh, Marjory, how can you talk so !' returned
Nellie, quite piteously. * Mamma, it
is all nonsense. She would not touch them, I
am sure.'

Never mind. Miss Walford ; we all know
how good you can be to them,' replied Mr.
Brooks, looking the embarrassed girl full in the
face.

Nellie had almost forgotten him in her earnestness
to vindicate her friend in her mother's eyes.
Mrs. Walford was very intolerant of anything
she called unworthiness, and her daughter
never liked her to hear any of Marjory's reckless
speeches. Nellie's grey eyes were fall of pleading
; she looked so pretty and pathetic, that
Mr. Brooks wavered in the balance again.

Miss Deane was handsome ; indeed, he must
own he had never seen her to such advantage ashe
had that evening. She was the sort of girl
that could take a man's heart by storm, and
bring him almost against his will to her feet ;

but he was not sure she would be good to live
with in the same house. She had a temper ; he
was beginning to suspect that. If he could
only make sure of it, his fancy would be
cured.

He was offended with her, too, for her want
of interest in his children. Of course, it was
pure nonsense, all her talk. She would not
really box their ears : that was merely girlish
perversity. But to maintain that she did not
know Popples, when she had seen them for a
score of Sundays and had often spoken to the
child !  it seemed complete indifference ; and
such is human nature, that, though Mr. Brooks
was by no means the doting father that his
neighbours imagined him to be, he had never
felt himself more wounded.

When Marjory went up into her friend's little
sanctum to put on her wraps, Nellie stood beside
the pretty toilet-table, looking at her with eyes
that seemed to have grown all at once very sad
and wistful.

You ought always to wear those soft, creamy
materials, with just the relief of a crimson knot
or flower,' she observed; for Marjory invariably
added some dark, rich-tinted flowers or cluster

of berries to her evening toilet to set off her
clear brovn skin. ' Yon were looking your
best this evening  really superb, Marjory.'

Marjory laughed a little triumphantly. She
would not have been mortal woman if a compliment
failed to please her.

Oh, what nonsense you talk sometimes !' she
said very graciously.

I think it was you who talked nonsense tonight,'
returned Nellie, with another pout. * It
was so silly of you, Marjory, when you know
mamma always believes everything one says.'

Yes, indeed ; Mrs. Walford has no sense of
humour. I must say that, Nellie, though she is
your mother.'

You may say anything to me  you always

do, you know; but  but ,' hesitating a

little, ' I am afraid Mr. Brooks believed it all,
too. He did not look pleased, Marjory ; he
quite left off talking to you, and before he
hardly seemed able to speak to anyone
else.'

Oh, indeed !' returned Marjory, in an inexplicable
tone. ' Well, I dare say I shall sleep
just as soundly to-night under the Brooks' wrath.
Good-night, my little Princess. Do not worry

your dear head any more about me. I love
to shock people. That is one of my bad
habits.'

And a few minutes later, as Mr. Brooks
shook hands with her at the door of Muriel's
End, she said quite affably, and as though they
where the best of friends :

Good-night, Mr. Brooks. Give my love to
Popples, and tell her I will have a good look at
her next Sunday ; and please ask the other little
girl  I don't know her name, though Nellie
does  not to shut up that big prayer-book quite
so noisily.'

, mn, wsWN 

CHAPTER IX.

I WILL NEVER WEAR BLUE AGAIN.'

FEW evenings after Marjory's visit to
Parkside, she and Anne had a slight
altercation, and, as usual, Anne was
worsted in the argument. AVhen Marjory had
decreed to take her own way, ' mountains
would not move her,' as Mackay once feelingly
observed.

Anne was sitting on the low couch in Marjory's
room, looking quite young and pretty in
her black silk and delicate lace ruffles ; but
there was a cloud on her face as she watched
Marjory add the finishing touches to her dress.

The girl's room bore evidence of loving eyes
and hands. Without being luxurious, it was as
cosy and pretty as a room need be : the tent-bed,
with its snowy hangings and Indian embroidered

quilt was in one corner of the room ;
a little square table, with flower-vases and books
and writing materials, occupied the centre of
the room ; a bright fire burnt in the grate  the
couch and a work-table stood beside it ; the
toilet-table was full of tasteful knick-knacks ; a
few well-chosen pictures hung on the walls, and
a canary piped from its gilded cage in the
window. One would have said at once that
it was the room of an idolized girl whom the
whole household had conspired to spoil. But
as Anne looked round her, the cloud deepened
on her gentle face.

Capel will be so vexed when he sees you,'
she said, returning again to the argument ; ' it
is all very well to say it is nonsense to be put
out at such a trifle, but I think you should have
more regard to my wishes.'

I did not know that Mr. Frere was going
to the Yicarage,' returned Marjory, drawing the
mittens over her finely-formed arms. * How
pleased Mrs. Curwin and Sophy will be !'

'Of course he is not going,' replied Anne,
quite crossly for her ; ' and I wish I could
stop at home, and not have to look at you all
the evening, now that yow have made such a

fright of yourself. I really wonder at you, Marjory;
I do indeed  and when you pride yourself
so much on your good taste

Do I look a fright ?' asked Marjory, with a
sudden pang; and then she regarded herself in the
glass with some anxiety. ' Blue never did suit
me, and this gowan is so badly cut. But'  with
a little indecision in her voice  ' I don't think I
look quite so bad as that.'

I have never seen jou worse dressed,' returned
Anne with decision, for she thought
Marjory was wavering. 'Do change that gowan,
dear  we have plenty of time ; and what does
it matter if we are a little late ? If you are
tired of white, there is your black velveteen, or
your silk with the Spanish lace.'

No, I will not change it,' returned Marjory
slowly, but she looked at herself a little uneasily
as she spoke. * Don't worry any more about it,
Anne ; it is not worth all this fuss. What does it
matter if I do not look quite as well as usual this
evening ?  it will be all the same a hundred
years hence,' finished the girl philosophically.

Anne rose from her seat with a half-suppressed
sigh. She had contested the point long enough,
and her dignity forbade any further argument.

Marjory had persisted in treating the whole
matter as a trifle, but to Anne it was no trifle.
She was proud of Marjory ; she loved to see her
pet queening it among other girls ; but to-night
she would fail to achieve any success. It
wounded her, too, that her expressed wish
should have such little weight with Marjory.
Anne would have changed her own gown half
a dozen times if she or Capel had found fault
with it. To yield in trifles seemed to Anne
the essence of womanliness.

Mr. Frere came out of his smoking-room in
his loose grey coat as soon as their footsteps
sounded on the stairs.  I have gathered you
some flowers, my dear,' he said, putting some
into Marjory's hand, and then he stopped all at
once and regarded her with puzzled eyes.

What has she done to herself, Anne ? she
does not look first-rate this evening. You are
too brown, Marjory Daw, for that blue gown.'

Oh, what a fuss you people make about my
appearance!' returned Marjory, with decided
temper. ' Thank you for the flowers, Mr.
Frere, but you see I cannot wear them to-night;
they would not harmonize with this colour.'

I do not think your dress quite suits you,'

VOL. I. , 11

he replied gravely, drawing back to let her pass.
You are out of harmony somehow to-night,
Marjory.'

Do not tease her, Capel,' whispered his sister,
who was beginning to dread that Marjory would
insist on staying at home. * Why do you not
look at me ? I am sure my gown is very nice.'

You are always nice,' he returned, with an
approving glance ; * you beat all the girls hollow
even now, Anne ;' but he did not look again at
Marjory. She had laid his flowers down on the
hall table, and was humming a little tune carelessly
to herself; they found them still therewith
limp stalks and withered buds on their
return a few hours later.

The Vicarage drawing-room was already filled
with guests when they entered it* It was one
of Mrs. Curwin's peculiarities, and which greatly
annoyed her step-daughters, to begin by asking
just one or two people to tea and music, and to
end by inviting half the parish. The result was
a mixed, incongruous gathering of ill-assorted
people, who herded in separate cliques in different
corners of the room, and objected to any sort of
fusion. The Bassenthwaites and Goldhursts
W'Cre not on speaking terms, and the Arnold

had almost drawn daggers with the Slopes ;
nevertheless, there they all were, caged between
the same four walls, and compelled to jostle each
other for want of elbow-room.

Miss Theoo Curwin, who was a tall, spectacled
young woman with decided views, was engaged
in an engrossing discussion, at least on her part,
with a little fair man, who proved to be the new
curate, Mr. Erskine. Marjory, who was being
piloted by the elder Miss Curwin to a seat in a
remote corner, caught the words  Homes for
working girls urgently needed  a most palpable
necessity as she smiled and nodded at Nellie,
who was sitting by the window talking to Mr.
Brooks.

Mr. Brooks put up his eye-glass, for he was
rather short-sighted, and looked after Marjory a
little dubiously.

Yes, go to her; I mean,' continued Nellie
confusedly, ' that I am sure Marjory does not
want a tte--tte with Miss Curwin. Sophy is
so tiresome sometimes.'

I will go to her by-and-by ; just now we are
very comfortable,' returned her companion, with
a pleasant smile.  I think I must call round at
Parkside tomorrow and ask your mother to

112

advise me about Dora's governess. Dora is
nearly nine now, though you would not believe
it to look at her, and a child of that age needs
some sort of womanly guidance.'

Yes, indeed,' replied Nellie innocently ;
Nurse is a very superior person, but, as
mamma says, a gentlewoman would do best for
the eider ones. Let me see. Miss Frere was
only telling us the other day of such a nice
ladylike person she knows who sadly wanted
employment ; don't you think if you were to
speak to her, Mr. Brooks ?'

 Thanks,' with another smile ; ' but I have
such confidence in Mrs. Walford's judgment that
I am sure I could rely on her advice. Miss
Frere is charming, but she is a little too bracing
in my opinion ; my poor children must be tenderly
guided. Ada is so sensitive and delicate that

any strong-minded woman ' but here Nellie

struck in with a little protest  she was always
BO loyal to her friends.

Miss Frere would not recommend a person
of that sort ; she is far too wise and gentle
herself. Think how good she has been to
Marjory all her life ; she was such an atom of
a child when she adopted her,'

True ; yes, to be sure returned Mr. Brooks,
caressing his moustache. Little Miss Walford
was looking very pretty, he thought, this evening,
and her manners were so naive and animated.
She was rather young for a stepmother, he feared,
but his late wife had been some years older than
himself, and he had made up his mind that this
had been a mistake  it made women jealous and
masterful ; and he had quite decided that if he
married again the disparity must be on the other
side. '

Miss Deane could not be much over twenty,
he remembered, and here again he put up his
eye-glass. She was not looking so handsome,
he decided at last ; her face looked dark and
shadowy under her hair, there was no play of
features, no animation ; he was not quite sure
that she did not look absolutely plain.

Poor ]marjory did not find her conversation
with Miss Curwin at all interesting ; it was, as
usual, on Sophy's favourite topic  her stepmother's
errors of judgment.

It is so absurd of Mrs. Curwin herding all
these people together,' went on Sophy, in an
aggravated whisper. She was tall and freckled,
but not untimely, only the lower part of the

face was too heavily moulded, and showed a
decided temper. ' I wonder how my father can
bear it, with his love of quiet and peace ; but if
old men will take to themselves wives when they
have daughters to care for them '

Mrs. Curwin is so very sociable,' observed
Marjory, not knowing exactly how to reply to
this ; ' I think she likes making people happy 
at least, Anne says so,' remembering that she
herself differed from Anne.

Oh, it is only her love of fuss,' replied Sophy,
with rather a vixenish look, which made Marjory
all at once rather sorry for Mrs. Curwin. ' She
likes trotting in and out of people's houses and
inviting them ; it makes her feel important. When
she came home yesterday, and told Theoo and me
of the last batch of people she had asked, Theoo
said, 'would it not save you trouble, ma'am, if
my father were to send round the town crier?"
I thought that so clever of Theoo.'

Just then Mrs. Curwin caught sight of Marjory,
and bustled up to them with a beaming face.

So glad you have come, Marjory, my dear,'
she said, tapping her on the shoulder with a
white plump hand. * She looks charming ; does
she not, Sophy ? My girls were so delighted

when they knew you were coming. Isn't this
nice, now?' looking round her with satisfied eyes;
everyone I asked has come  not one missing.
Your father said just now the room was overheated.
Sophy, what do you think ? shall we let
the fire out, or open the window ?'

I should recommend both plans,' rejoined
Miss Curwin, in a freezing voice. ' The place
must certainly resemble the Black Hole at
Calcutta, you have crowded the room so nicely,
you see.'

Dear, dear, I hope no one else thinks so,'
returned her stepmother, visibly alarmed. * Where
is Theoooo ? I must ask Theoooo. My dear, your
sister thinks we ought to let the fire out and open
the window. Oh, is that you, Mr. Erskine? Don't
let Theoo monopolize you ; there is a young lady
in the room to whom I want to introduce you ; or
rather, I should say  at least, it is the other way
round. Marjory, my dear ; Miss Deane : this is
our new curate  you know misnamed  Mr. Erskine.
He is rather High, you know  a little dangerous,'
tapping him on the arm with her fan, * but we
mean to cure him of that. Sophy, won't you
give Mr. Erskine your seat by Marjory ? I want
you to talk to poor dear Mr. Pike ; he does look

SO out of his element.' And having made both
lier step-daughters decidedly uncomfortable, she
bustled away, in search of further victims to her
benevolent intentions.

Marjory had grown weary of her corner and
of Sophy's ill-natured remarks, so she hailed the
new-comer with her brightest smile. He was
not so handsome or interesting as Mr. Brooks,
and, of course, Nellie had far the best of it this
evening. He was a meek little man, with unassuming
manners ; nevertheless, she behaved
herself graciously to him.

Half the evening had passed before Mr. Brooks
seemed able to pilot his way to Marjory's corner.
By that time he thought Miss Deane had been
sufficiently punished for her behaviour to Popples,
and perhaps he was becoming a little uneasy at
the prolonged conversation with the new curate.
Marjory saw him coming, but barely raised her
eyelids to welcome him.

What a crowd there is to-night ! ' he said
pleasantly ; * there is no getting to one's friends.
You seem fond of this special corner. Miss Deane,
but it is far cooler by the window. Miss Walford
wants you to join us.'

Tell Nellie I will come to her by-and-by,

when Mr. Erskine and I have finished our
argument returned Marjory indifferently. ' Mr.
Erskine was enlightening me on the subject of
ecclesiastical architecture. I have been so much
interested.'

Oh, indeed returned Mr. Brooks, feeling
himself snubbed, while the curate looked radiant ;
it is a very large subject  very. Pray do
not let me interrupt you. Miss Walford and
I were far more frivolous : we were only discussing
the last new novel.'

*Yes; Nellie reads far too many novels,' responded
Marjory calmly.  I wonder her mother
allows it. You ought really to see Butterfield
Church, Mr. Erskine ; it was early English, and
has been restored. The roof is arched and of
chestnut wood, and there is a wooden cover to
the font, curiously carved and shaped, that bears
the date 1533;' but Mr. Brooks lost the
rest of the sentence. Only, as he recrossed the
room rather gloomily, he told himself that Miss
Deane gave herself far too many airs for so
young a girl. She was uncertain  very uncertain.
A man could never be sure what sort
of reception he might expect from her ; and from
that moment Marjory's fate was sealed. Never

would Popples's father ask her to have compassion
on his motherless children.

Oh, Marjory dear whispered Nellie, as they
came out together in the moonlight, * has it not
been a delightful evening ? I have never enjoyed
myself so much.'

I am glad you have been so happy returned
Marjory rather brusquely. The girls were walking
arm-in-arm under the limes ; Mr. Brooks was
following with Miss Frere. Marjory had shaken
off the little curate with some difficulty, for he
had pleaded hard to escort them; but she was
determined to enjoy their homeward stroll in
peace.

And you,' questioned Nellie rather anxiously.
why did you keep in that corner all the evening ?
I am sure you were bored, Marjor3\ I never
heard you laugh once.'

It was a detestable evening, 'responded Marjory
fiercely. ' I don't mind telling you, Nellie, for weare
such friends, that I never felt so cross in my
life. There, it is over now, but I could not do it
again  it is too great a sacrifice. I never knew
before what a vain creature I really am, but it is
a good thing to see one's own faults clearly. No,
I am very fond of you, Nellie, and I am sure you

are quite welcome to him, Popples and all, but I
could never do it again

 What do you mean ?' faltered poor Nellie,
turning very red in the dim light and casting a
furtive look behind her, fearing that Marjory's
words would be overheard. ' You do say such
strange things, dear. You cannot mean that
you stopped in that corner on purpose to avoid
Mr. Brooks T

'No, thank you,' returned Marjory rather
shortly ; ' I did not care to be more prominent
this evening. Anne's criticism is very wholesome,
but it somehow takes the spirit out of
one. Never mind what I do mean, Nellie ; but
one thing I must say : he is not good enough
for my little Princess ; he is far too ordinary and
commonplace, and in spite of his good looks, I
call him terribly shallow and uninteresting.*

Oh, Marjory !' with a catch of her breath ;
how can you say such things ? And if it
were so,' with a little laugh, * some one must
be kind, even to these ordinary men. Isn't it
George Eliot who speaks so feelingly about
unattractive commonplace men ? I cannot remember
the name of that uninteresting clergyman
in her *' Scenes of Clerical Life": but I

know that beautiful Silly loved him enough to
marry him.'

Amos Barton  that is the name, Nellie, my
dear. Your Amos Barton will be a far handsomer
edition of humanity. I wish you joy of
Popples, and '

But here Nellie covered Marjory's mouth
with her little gloved hand, and said * Hush !' in
such an alarmed voice that Marjory immediately
turned the subject.

Have you had a pleasant evening, Marjory
Daw ?' asked Mr. Frere, as he came out to
meet them ; for this was one of the pet names
that had somehow abided with Marjory from
childhood.

Marjory shook her head.

You were quite right,' she answered rather
seriously ; * nothing harmonized. It was all a
muddle. Oh, the poor flowers !' stopping topick
them up as she passed, and showing their
withered leaves. ' You will never give me anymore,
Mr. Frere, after my throwing your gift
away like this.'

Oh yes ; I shall give you the opportunity of
flinging them away a score of times yet,' he
replied, touched by a certain wistfulness in the

girl's face, and the way in which she had laid
the poor withered things against her cheek, as
though she where sorry for their blighted loveliness.
But she made him no answer, only to
bid him a subdued good-night.

A little later on, as Anne was sitting by her
bedroom fire, there was a quick tap at her door,
and Marjory entered in her flowing white
dressing-gowan, with her hair falling round her
like a brown veil, and in her arms she carried a
confused mass of blue drapery.

There !' she said, throwing it with a disgusted
look at Anne's feet ; * I never intend to
wear blue again as long as ever 1 live. You
may cut it up for little Sally Drummond's pelisse,
if you like, or throw it in the fire. Of course,
I looked a fright ; but I never will again.'

And then, without waiting for a reply, she
ran out of the room.

THE FIRST EVENING AT WHITECLIFFE.

!N the evening before Marjory's projected
visit to Whitecliffe, Mr. Frere
(ito) announced his intention of accompanying
her in his usual careless manner.

Constant change of air seems a sort of
fashion in these latter days. It is bad form
to remain too long in one place  not to be
behind the times, I have put up a spare collar
and a pipe, and I suppose you did not forget a
brush and comb while you were about it,
Anne ? And I mean to enjoy myself thoroughly
in good bachelor style at the Crown, while you
are moping in Mrs. Chard's little parlour.'

Marjory was leaving the room as he spoke ;
but she stopped and regarded him with an
astonished look.

You  you are coming vitli me, Mr.
Frere !'

I do not see wlij" I am not to have a
holiday sometimes,' vas the cool reply. ' Of
course, I should prefer an expedition to Colorado,
only Anne objects to the distance. When a man
has woman folk about him, he ceases somehow
to be his own master. It is years since I felt
the joys of absolute independence. I think that
miller of Dee was an enviable man : * I care
for nobody, no, not I; and nobody cares for me."
That old fellow must have had a good time
of it.'

 Oh, I understand you,' she replied. And
as she turned away he could see her eyes
were slowly filling with tears.

Nothing farther was said on the subject ; but
the next morning Marjory said good-bye to
Anne with a more cheerful countenance than
she generally wore on such occasions.

I will try to behave better to her,' she
whispered, as Anne looked at her with meaning
tenderness. * Oh, I mean to be so good now 
that I feel he is near me,' with a grateful glance
at Mr. Frere, as he watched Marjory's new trunk
and his own shabby portmanteau being hoisted on

the top of the fly that was to carry them to the
station.

Marjory was very quiet during the journey.
She leant back, looking out at the moving landscape
with grave unseeing eyes, while Mr. Frere
busied himself over the paper, or rummaged in
his bag for possible and impossible articles.

It could not be denied that Mr. Frere was at
all times a very fidgety fellow-traveller. The
ventilation of the carriage never could be adjusted
to his liking. He generally opened and
shut the windows a dozen times in an hour.
Either there was a draught, or danger of suffocation,
or a tunnel was looming in the distance,
or the dust was bad for their eyes ; and as all
these manifestations were accompanied by an
incessant strain of good-humoured grumbling, it
required some philosophy, and not a little
patience, for his companions in ' durance vile ' to
adapt themselves to his various whims.

This is my window, sir, I must beg you to
observe,' one very irascible old gentleman was
heard to say.

Oh, indeed,' returned Mr. Frere politely, as
lie retreated to his corner. ' I am very glad to
hear it. There is always something new, as

Solomon says. I had no idea before that the
directors let out their windows. I suppose they
take it out in extra fare

Look here, Marjory observed Mr. Frere, as
they drove slowly down Station Road, and the
air blew freshly into their faces, bringing a
delicious whiff of seaweed with it.  I cannot
quite peep into Mrs. Chard's parlour window,
because my host of the Crown has given me my
old room facing the Parade ; but when you want
me, my dear, you can fasten that thing in the
window' (pointing to a gold-coloured silk scarf that
Marjory wore), ' and I shall see it plainly when I
prowl up and down on the Parade. Bless you,
we might run up a code of signals in no time !
Scarf waved from right to left : ' ' Please come at
once, as I have a lit of vapours, and mother is
grumpy." From left to right: * Am coming out fora
walk. Wait for me by the illuminated clock" 
and so on.'

Marjory smiled faintly at this, but the grave
look was still in her eyes. They were coming
to the well-remembered corner now. There was
the General Post Office ; and Queen Street, with
its gay shops ; and the tall clock ; and the
Crown Hotel, the side windows of which had a

VOL. I. 12

full view of the high narrow house where Mrs.
Chard lived.

There was a large fishing-smack, as usual,
lying high and dry in the middle of the road.
On the palings of the little public garden there
were brown nets hanging out to dry. From
Mrs. Chard's front windows one had a side
view of the sea, and the shelving beach, with
yellow and brown boats lying side by side, and
knots of fishermen in their blue jerseys loitering
and smoking under the white steps that led to
the Parade and the Crown Hotel.

It was rather a lively corner, as Marjory knew.
There was a restaurant belonging to the hotel,
where people strolled in for their lunch and
dinner. A string of hackney coaches was
always waiting for hire. A little shoe boy
drove a brisk trade just opposite. In the
evening, the hotel lights and the illuminated
clock threw gleams of radiance across the road,
and showed the dim masts, and the dark sea-line,
and the shadowy forms of the passengers coming
from the old part of the town, by Crown Street,
as it was called.

Mr. Frere shook hands with Marjory as soon
as they reached the house, and strode off with

his portmanteau in the direction of the hotel,
while Marjory walked up the steps rather
wearily.

Mrs. Chard opened the door herself. ' You
have come at last, my dear she said, kissing
her a little timidly, for, strange to say, she was
never at her ease with the girl. * I have been
sitting at the window more than an hour watching
for you ; but Martha was out, and just then
the drawing-room bell rang, and I was forced to
answer it.'

You have lodgers then ?' observed Marjory,
in some surprise, as she followed her mother
into a long narrow parlour, somewhat shabbily
furnished, but with one large pleasant window
looking down Crown Street, and another very
small one, opening full on the beach. * I hope
my coming does not inconvenience you. When
you wrote, you said the house was empty.'

They only came last evening, dearie,' returned
Mrs. Chard, trying to make a black cindery fire
bum more brightly. 'There was a telegram in the
afternoon, and then they arrived  just miss and
her brother. Another gentleman travelled with
them and slept at the Crown, but he went
away this morning.'

122

Indeed returned Marjory, interested, like
all young people, in listening to the affairs
of her neighbours. * What is their name,
mother ?'

I didn't rightly hear their names replied
Mrs. Chard, fidgeting with the blind: * It looked
like Carleton the telegram. Mrs. Fowler, who
was with me four months last year, recommended
the lodgings. They wanted a quiet place, because
the poor young gentleman is a bit of
an invalid. It put me rather in a fuss, Marjory,
for Major Dakins only left yesterday morning,
and Martha is so slow, though she is a good
girl ; and there were the rooms to turn out, and
clean curtains to put up. I did not finish until
nearly twelve last night.'

You should have put me off returned Marjory,
rather absently ; for just then she caught
sight of Mr. Frere, who had deposited his luggage
and had gone down on the beach to fill his lungs
with pure sea air before enjoying his dinner. He
saw Marjory, for he turned and waved his stick at
her, which brought him into collision with a
donkey that was carrying up stones from the
shore. The result was disastrous ; for the
donkey kicked, and Mr. Frere stopped and

Scrubbed

his knee ruefully, at which Marjory
laughed.

Who is that, ray dear ? You seem to know
the gentleman,' asked her mother. * My eyes
are not as they used to be, and I don't rightly
distinguish people when they are so far off as
that.'

It is Mr. Frere,' replied Marjory, nodding to
him. ' He wanted a week's holiday, and so he
has taken rooms at the Crown. It will be pleasant
for me, for I shall not have so many solitary
walks when you are busy.'

Mr. Frere !' faltered her mother, and the
next moment the Venetian blind that she was
still manipulating  for a piece of the webbing
had broken  fell from her hand with a
clatter.

If Marjory had turned round just then, she
would have seen Mrs. Chard staring at her with
blank, wide-open eyes, and her face twitching
and pale ; but the girl was still watching her
friend, and took no notice of the exclamation or
the silence that followed it.

Am I to have my old room ?' she asked at
last, when Mr. Frere had disappeared round the
corner.

Yes  no, I should say ; for all the upper
rooms are engaged returned her mother
tremulously. * I am very sorry, Marjory  that
I am ; and you dislike that blank wall so much.
But there is no other room hut the one at the
hack of this. I wish now I had put you off  I
do from my heart ; only I was fairly withered
yesterday, and had not my wits about me.'

Nonsense !' returned Marjory, a little disdainfully.
' What a fuss you always make,
mother, about things ! The room will do well
enough, and I can put up with even the blank
wall for a week.'

Well, it can't be helped now,' observed Mrs.
Chard, in a depressed voice. ' Things will go
wrong sometimes. Take off your things, dearie,
and make yourself smart, and I will get the tea-things
and the kettle. And there is a beautiful
piece of ham I must put down to broil ; and by
that time, perhaps, Martha will be back, and we
can sit down comfortably.'

And then she hurried out of the room. But
when she was in the passage outside, she stood
still for a moment and pressed her hands on her
temples.

My brains still feel moithercd-like,' she

muttered. ' I am all in a twitter, as the saying
is. To think of his coming ! and he is that
sharp he would ferret out a thing in a moment.
I said it would not matter with the girl  no
more it would. Where would be the mischief ?
What a fool I was to haggle about the name,
and tell that fib about Mrs. Fowler ! There is
mischief in even fibbing, Ephraim always told
me so. Truth pays best in the end, as he
often said, and I begin to believe him. What
with bad dreams, and these palpitations, and
the fear of going off sudden one night in
the dark, I feel as though I must make a
clean breast of it and get at peace somewhere
;' and here she sighed and wrung her
hands.

Mrs. Chard !' suddenly exclaimed a girlish
voice, and there appeared at the top of the
stairs a very slim figure in grey, but the face
was hidden by the balustrade. ' Is Martha
still out, for my brother is getting anxious for
his dinner.'

It will be ready to the minute, my  Miss
Lilies, I mean,' returned Mrs. Chard, as her
face seemed to brighten all at once. * Tell Mr.
Barry the chicken is down  I set Martha's little

sister to watch it  and I will lay the table in a
trice, and by that time Martha will be in.'

I hope so, for the poor boy's sake,' returned
the young lady, and then the grey gown whisked
out of sight, just as Marjory, impelled by curiosity
to see the owner of so sweet a voice,
opened the parlour-door cautiously.

Lilies and Barry  what pretty names !' she
said to herself. * I suppose that is the surname.
It would look like Cap-ley in the telegram.'


Marjory was getting hungry and impatient by
the time Mrs. Chard entered with the kettle.
The elder woman looked hot and exhausted
as she began to arrange the tea-things.

That girl wears me out with her slowness,'
she grumbled. ' I only sent her to a house just
underneath the East Cliff, and she has been out
the greater part of the afternoon. She is back
now, but I gave her a good scolding. Servants
are made just to worry one's life out. I was
better off when I lived in a smaller house and
did without them.'

Mr. Frere always said he wondered at your
letting lodgings,' replied Marjory, with languid
interest, as she watched her mother's bustling

movements. It did not enter into her head to
offer to help her, though she looked so unusually
tired ; she was too self-engrossed to notice there
Alas anything amiss. * I should have thought
you would have been far more comfortable living
by yourself at Review Cottage.'

No, dear, I should not. It was lonesome
living on at the cottage when Ephraim was
gone,' returned Mrs. Chard, with a sigh, * The
girl that did the rough part of the work always
went home to her mother to sleep, and somehow
those long evenings and nights grew quite
dreadful to me. Sometimes the sea seemed to
wash right up to the palings ; one could see
nothing but the grey water closing round the
house. The waves used to keep me awake hour
after hour, until I was nigh crazy. I told my
neighbours I might as well live in a lighthouse
as at Review.'

It must have been a little desolate in winter,*
returned Marjory.

Desolate !  it was just barrenness itself, my
dear. So, as this house was Ephraim' s, and it
was just standing empty, waiting for a tenant,
I thought to myself that lodgers would be more
cheerful than my own company, and that it

would stir me up a bit, and keep me from
fretting over what could not be helped, to have
to wait on other people. It has answered very
fairly ; and my neighbour, Mrs. Jenkins, is
quite furious because I never have a " Let '' up
more than two days, and she does not take hers
down for weeks together. But I ain't what I
was, Marjory, and sometimes the cooking and
stairs are too much for me.'

I do not think you are looking over-well,
mother,' observed Marjory, scrutinizing Mrs.
Chard's face for the first time.

They were sitting opposite each other at the
table, and Marjory, with her healthy young
appetite, was doing full justice to the nicely
ham and new-laid eggs. The spring
twilight was just creeping over the room, but as
the clear firelight played on her mother's countenance,
Marjory thought it looked old and
shrunken.

Mrs. Chard had been considered very handsome
in her younger da's. Hers had been no
ordinary type of rustic beauty. She had always
been pale in complexion, and the contour of her
face and the form of her features had been as
delicate and refined as a lady's might have been;

but, either from constitutional ill-health or the
sorrows of her life, she had not worn well.

The face had grown thin and long, and there
was a pinched, careworn expression on it ; her
forehead was deeply lined, and her eyes looked
sunken and melancholy ; the weak, irresolute
mouth, with its loose, twitching lips, had not
grown firmer with years. A physiognomist
would have said at once, on looking at this
woman's face, that Mrs. Chard must possess a
feeble moral nature  a nature not prone to evil
by any means, but liable to be hurried into it by
any strong impulse of love and fear  a nature
that could sin heavily and repent bitterly, and
yet be capable of many virtuous actions.

Marjory felt a little twinge of conscience as
she regarded her mother. No, she had never
seen her look so old and ill before ; and what
did that dark look about the lips mean ?

*No, dear; I am not to call well,' returned
the widow mournfully. ' I had in Mr. Gilbert
more than once when I have been troubled with
the pain and palpitation ; but he only says my
heart is like a worn-out machine  that I have
worked it too much, and must give it rest.'

I think it was horrid of Mr. Gilbert to tell

you that replied Marjory, vaguely disturbed at
Mrs. Chard's account of herself.

It was only what I knew myself,' returned
her mother, pleased with even this faint show of
sympathy on Marjory's part, for she had seldom
spoken to her so gently. ' I take the drops
when the pain is bad; and there is the sleeping-draught
when I can't bear the length of the
nights ; and, for the rest, a little work does not
hurt me. It is the mind, that is what Mr.
Gilbert says  it is the worry of mind that is
wearing me out, and how to put things right
that have gone wrong.'

But, mother ' began Marjory ; and then

she stopped.

How was she to point out to the widow that
her husband's death must be regarded as a
release, and not a trouble ? She must be talking
of past worries  dead and gone grievances ;
and certainly Ephraim Chard had ruled his wife
with a rod of iron. Marjory knew that her
mother had hardly dared to say that her soul
was her own in her husband's presence. He
had dominated her weak nature by the force of
a narrow, hard will that knew no mercy. If
she had lied freely to him, it was because she

had been too great a coward to throw off his
yoke. Tyrants make slaves, and a slavish
nature is seldom a true one.

Yes ; her mother must be alluding to the past.
She was a free woman now and comparatively
a happy one. Letting lodgings was no hardship
in her station of life ; cooking and cleaning
came as naturally to her as reading and music
to educated people. If she had nothing to do,
time would be a weariness to her : these sort of
people have no resources in themselves. This
was Marjory's view of the matter, but she
thought it as well to give her mother one piece
of advice.

If I were you, I should not work quite so
hard,' she said, with youthful dogmatism. 'When
the house is full, as it is now, I should get a
girl to help Martha.'

And here she ended the discussion by rising
from the table and walking towards the window.

She was still standing there half an hour
later, looking across at the darkening sea, while
Mrs. Chard was trying to set a smoky lamp
right, when a little bunch of wet seaweed struck
against the open palm of her hand. She was
startled for a moment, until she saw a slip of

white paper dangling from it; and then she
caught it up with a merry laugh, and disentangled
it with some difficulty. Of course, it
must have been Mr. Frere who had tossed it at
her with such unerring aim ; and no doubt he
was lounging round the corner, smoking his
after-dinner cigar and waiting for her to come
out to him. Marjory's eyes brightened with
fun as she read the pencilled scrawl :

I am writing this under a lamp-post, and
after this reckless disregard of rheumatism and
appearances, neither you nor Anne need groan
that there is no nineteenth-century knight-errantry,
and that the age of chivalry is gone.
I feel a second Bayard ; a modern edition of any
of those old fellows of the Found Table, who did
impossible things for the sake of some lorn
damsel. If you want to see a fine study in
blacks and browns, with just a suspicion of foam-coloured
white, open the street door, and you
will find your obedient servant.'

Mr. Frere is waiting for me ; I suppose T can
run out to him for half an hour ? asked Marjory,
with a delighted sniff of the seaweed. It was

good of him to come for her, just as she was
dreading a long evening's tete-d-tcte with her
mother.

Run along, dearie, and don't keep him waiting,'
returned Mrs. Chard hurriedly. And
Marjory', thankful for the permission, had soon
put on her hat and thrown a plaid round her.
She found Mr. Frere still in contemplation of the
lamp-post.

'This is a remarkably fine cigar were his
greeting words, as Marjory slipped her hand
through his arm, and turned him forcibly in the
direction of the dark beach. ' I am in that mellow,
benevolent humour that a good dinner, thoroughly
digested, produces on the masculine mind. The
fish was delicious, crisp, and brown to a nicety,
and the cutlets done to a turn, and the Gorgon-sola

was excellent ' but here Marjory uttered

an impatient ' Pshaw !'

I always notice that a woman says ' Pshaw"
when a man talks of his dinner,' observed Mr.
Frere resignedly ; ' and yet it is an important
item in the day's business. If his food does not
rightly assimilate  if his steak is tough or stringy,
for example  the whole man seems out of gear ;
he is grim, choleric, or taciturn, according to his

nature. A well-cooked dinner, served with undeviating
punctuality, not half a minute's grace
for a lagging guest, and the same man is soothed
and made happy, his moral being expands, he is
capable of charity he hates his enemies less
fiercely and loves his friends more tenderly, he
feels a man every bit of him  and where, in the
name of mystery, are you flying ofi" in a tangent,
Marjory Daw ?'

Oh, I will not hear you,' she returned, stopping
her ears ; * it is only old men who talk of
their dinners. I will listen to the waves ; they
will have something to tell me more interesting
than that.' And before Mr. Frere had made up his
mind to follow her, she had run down the pebbly
beach, with her plaid flying out behind her, and
was standing like an image at the brink of the
dark water, while the waves came lapping about
her feet.

THE Young LADY IN GREY.

S Marjory opened the house door, the
faint sound of singing, unaccompanied
by any instrument, seemed to blend
harmoniously with the monotonous wash of the
waves on the shore. The voice seemed purposely
low pitched, but was pleasant in the
extreme ; and the air was familiar to Marjoiy, for
it was one that her friend Nellie had often senor.
Marjory closed the door noiselessly, scarcely
answering Mr. Frere's cheery good-night ; and
then, prompted by a curious impulse, stole up
the staircase, and paused for a moment in the
dark passage.

The drawing-room door was partially opened,
as though for coolness, and only the play of firelight
threw a fitful brightness over the room.

VOL. I.



Marjory could see nothing but the shining blackness
of the old chiffonniere and the red folds of the
curtains. Most likely the singer was sitting in
the low chair by the fire. The voice was sweeter
than Nellie's, and there was a pathos, almost a
melancholy, in the full well-sustained notes that
brought the tears to Marjory's eyes. A girl
singing in the firelight ; and outside, the long,
endless refrain of the waves, making the night
musical.

The voice sang :

" Tired % ah, yes, so tired, dear ;
The day has been very long,
But shadowy gloaming draweth near ;
'Tis time for the evensong." '

A querulous sigh interrupted the song.

It won't do, Lil ; nothing does to-night ; we
may as well light the candles and go on with the
book.*

Oh dear, oh dear !' returned the same girl's
voice that had so charmed Marjory early in the
evening; ' is the pain so bad, my poor boy ? Let
me try a little longer, and I will screen the firelight
from your eyes ; this has so often sent you

to sleep. There, shut your eyes;' and she went
on :

*' I'm ready to go to rest at last,
Ready to say 'Good-night.'
The sunset glory darkens fast ;
To-morrow will bring me light." '

No, it won't do,' interrupted the boy still
more querulously; Thank you all the same, Lil,
but it seems to wake me up to-night, somehow.
Tired ? I should think I am tired. Life is an
awfully puzzling thing, after all. I wish one
were allowed a choice in the matter ; I am not
so sure I should have cared to exist.'

I am not going to scold you, poor fellow,
though you are such a heathen. I dare say
I should be as bad under the circumstances.
Never mind existence ; I never could talk philosophy.
I wonder when Hurrell will go over to
St. Kilda's for the books. By-the-bye, how dull
poor mother will be without us to-night !'

Without you, you mean.'

'No, without us,' she repeated. 'Oh, you
foolish boy ! that is another of your whimsies,
making believe that she is not just as fond of
you as she is of me.'

I can't help it, Lil, if the thoughts will come.

132

Mother is awfully good, of course ; but I am

such a failure, you see, and ' but here

Marjory, who had been gently tip-toying from
the door during the last few moments, was
almost startled into a scream by a sudden jerk
at her wrist,

What are you doing here, Marjory ?' was
almost hissed into her ear ; and as the girl looked
a little ashamed of herself, Mrs. Chard continued,
as soon as they were in the parlour again,
Gracious me, you did give me a turn, standing
there in the dark ! It ain't like you, Marjory,
to be listening outside doors, and you know I
never like my lodgers to be interfered with. As
long as they pay they have a right to call their
rooms their own.'

what do you mean, mother?' returned
Marjory, indignant at the accusation ; * I listen
at doors !' drawing up her long neck with the
majesty of an insulted princess. * Anyone maj
listen to a song, I believe, without being considered
dishonourable ; and that is all that took
me upstairs, just to listen to the sweetest singing
that I ever heard in my life. As soon as they
began to talk I tried to get away.'

Well, well, don't be angry with me, my

dear. I have a right to speak to you, haven't
I, Marjory ?' in a humble, deprecating voice.

No, no right at all,' returned the girl, with
decided temper ; for she was angry with herself
for her curiosity, and the least implied blame
from this woman was hard to bear. * When I
do wrong you may speak of it, but not before.
I wonder what Anne and Mr. Frere would say
if they knew you accused me of listening at
doors.'

But you won't tell them, dearie !' coaxed her
mother, quite crushed by this show of spirit on
the girl's part. ' You know I wasn't meaning
anything by what I said. There, don't let us
quarrel, Marjory, the first night; and I ain't over-well,
and that is the truth. There is just one
thing I was wanting to say to you, if you won't
fly out at me ; don't, there's a dear, for it makes
me nervous and twitter, and I ain't what
I was even a year ago  that I ain't, Marjory.'


Well, what is it ?' returned Marjory ungraciously,
for she was much ruffled by this
contretemps.

It is only for your sake I am naming it,
because you are a grand young lady, and have

such fine manners. If you should get speaking
to Miss Lias  which you won't of course, but
there is no accounting for accidents  you need
not be mentioning that you belong to me. I
shall quite understand your being silent ; it wil
be only natural, and I will put up with it,
Marjory, my dear

Do you mean that I am not to say that I
am your daughter T returned Marjory, regarding
her mother with some surprise, for this was
utterly unexpected.

 There is no call to tell our family history to
strangers,' replied Mrs. Chard, becoming a little
confused under Marjory's fixed look  her speech
was always more illiterate when she was agitated ;
we ain't obliged to take folks into our confidence
unless it suits us. It is jou I am thinking
about, Marjory  you are so fine and grand, for all
your quiet dress; and it is hard for you, dearie,
to have to point me out for your mother when I
look and work like a servant, and Miss Lilies
only treats me as such.'

Marjory contemplated her mother still more
thoughtfully. Was this pure unselfishness and
regard for her feelings ? or was there some
crooked meaning involved in this ? Alas that

such suspicion should always follow her mother's
lightest words.

Mrs. Chard grew a little impatient under that
wide-open glance.

Gracious me, Marjory ! one would think I
was speaking Dutch, to see you staring at me in
that way, instead of pure common-sense. If
you were staying with me for a month instead
of a week, I would not say a word about keeping
a silent tongue in your head. But a week is
just nought, and nought's soonest said ; and
Deane isn't Chard, and there is no need to
humble yourself unless you want to do it. And
all the world can see you are heaps finer than
your mother, and that you oughtn't rightly to
belong to me.'

Marjory curled her lip sarcastically. ' * Speech
is silver, but silence is golden." I suppose you
mean that, mother. I am not likely to speak
to your lodgers, or to trouble them with my
private history. If I am asked my name I will
tell it. If I see any need to identify myself
with you, I hope no false shame or pride will
cause me to hold my tongue. I dare say you
mean kindly, mother, though it is difficult sometimes
to understand what you say ; but all the

same, I will leave the whole matter to chance.
If you do not mind, I think I will go to bed now,
for the sea air has made me sleepy.'

Aye, do so, my dear,* returned her mother,
with alacrity. ' Early to bed and early to rise 
that keeps the roses fresh on young cheeks. You
ain't vexed with me any longer, are you,
Marjory ?'

No, of course not,' replied Marjory rather
impatiently, as she gave her cool firm cheek to
her mother to kiss. Never once had she offered
her lips, or pressed them to Mrs. Chard's pale face.
If she had followed her inclination, a hand-shake
would have been all she would have proffered.
Marjory was rarely demonstrative, even to those
whom she loved; but where she was indifferent, her
manners could be icy in their rigidity. Strangers
often thought Marjory cold and hard, and spoke
of her as a girl who could be an amusing companion,
but had little or no heart. 'Just because
I do not keep it pinned to my sleeve, for all
the fools in creation to have a peck at it,' was
Marjory's scornful rejoinder, when she once heard
this opinion.

When Marjory woke the next morning, she
was not quite sure that existence was such a

desirable thing after all. In the first place, a
high blank wall, about twenty feet from one's
window, is not a very pleasing object with most
people ; neither is the drip drip of raindrops on
the flags below the most musical sound in the
world ! A wet day  and Mr. Frere and the
pleasant out-of-door world shut out by a wet
margin of broken-up clouds, resolving themselves
into a cold fluid atmosphere, with a taste of salt
in it just to give it flavour.

Oh dear,' sighed Marjory, as she coiled up her
heavy plaits before the cracked oval looking-glass,
which, from deficiency of quicksilver, always
gave her the appearance of a swollen face on one
side. * I shall die of emiui before the day is out,
unless I get up a good quarrel with somebody,
which I am pretty sure to do, unless Providence
gives me some sort of safety-valve,' which was
not quite reverent. But then, Marjory had not
yet said her prayers ; she was putting them off
to the last moment, in the hope of feeling more
in tune with her morning orisons.

In front, the prospect was a little more
enlivening. True, it rained  and rained steadily
too, as though it were in earnest, and no mistake,
and meant to take its own time about leaving off.

But somehow, the splash on the pavement was
not nearly so depressing. And it was rather
amusing to see the few fishermen that passed
under the window, in their oilskin caps and
leggings ; one or two had sacks over their
shoulders by way of waterproofs. And the
little shoeblack had picked up an old bit of
tarpaulin, and had crept for shelter right under
the bows of the fishing-smack in front. He had
a tame brown mouse, which ran in and out of
his blue shirt. He showed it to Marjory, with
such a display of white teeth and good humour
that Marjory at once proceeded to butter a nice
hot roll for him, as there were two on the table,
and she knev/ that her mother had already
breakfasted.

She was hindered in her benevolent task,
however, by an unexpected sight. Her plate
was filled with primroses and violets, wet with
rain, but looking as sweet and fresh as though
they had been just gathered and dropped promiscuously
by some careless hand. There was
no attempt at an-argument. There they lay, in
neat little bunches, straight from some flower-seller's
basket.

Marjory's eyes opened to their full extent, and

a little dimple that was rarely seen came into
full play. ' It must be he  Mr. Frees she said
to herself. ' Mother would not have thought of
such a thing. What would Anne say ? I am
sure she would never believe in his early rising.'
And somehow, after this, Marjory enjoyed her
breakfast  and the little shoeblack enjoyed
his.

As soon as she had finished, she sauntered to
the window again. Certainly the prospect was
not alluring. It still rained heavily, and
the sea had a grey leaden aspect. The waves
washed on the beach with sullen monotony.
There were shops just round the comer. There
was a special shop she knew, close to Trinity
Church, that was a perfect fairyland of seaweed
and shells. Marjory thought that she could
while away a pleasant half-hour, selecting little
gifts for Anne and her friend Nellie. There was
no one to rebuke her for her recklessness. Mr.
Frere would be reading his paper in the coffee-room
; with an ulster and an umbrella, where
would be the harm ? Nevertheless, her resolution
was a little shaken, as she opened the' hall-door ;
the rain was falling so heavily.

Marjory leant against the portico rather disconsolately,

with her eyes fixed on an eddying
little pool in the middle of the road. But the
next moment she was startled by a voice behind
her.

Oh, do you think we can venture ? The wind
is rather high, certainly ; but if one could only
get round the corner safely '

*I beg your pardon!' returned Marjory, a
little flurried at being so suddenly addressed,
for she had been deep in thought, and had not
heard the light footsteps.

There was a young lady in a grey waterproof
dress standing quite close to her, with a
mackintosh over her arm. She gave a little
laugh at Marjory's start, but went on in the
same pleasant voice :

Do you think it will soon be over ? It
seems almost too violent to last. Perhaps we
had better wait a little ; but there was a shop
just beyond Crown Street that I wanted to
reach.'

'And I also,' returned Marjory, pleased with
this frank address. * Perhaps in a few minutes
it will not pour quite so heavily. It is provoking
to wake up to a wTt morning; but
possibly it may clear towards evening. At

present,' with a little shrug, ' it looks hopeless.'


Oh, nothing is quite hopeless  in weather
or anything else,' returned the young lady, with
another little laugh. And then they were both
silent for two or three minutes, during which
Marjory was scrutinizing her companion with
an interest that was not devoid of disappointment.


She had been so charmed with her voice on
the previous night that she had made up her
mind, rather foolishly, that its oner must be
beautiful.

The mistake cost her a pang. Marjory did
so love beauty. The girl who stood by her
was not pretty at all. On the contrary, many
people would have called her plain. She had a
long thin face, somewhat pale in colouring, and
the nose was a little too long and pointed ; but
she had soft brown hazel eyes, and the eyebrows
were finely arched and pencilled. And
Marjory could see she had beautiful hair, half-hidden
under the close hat ; her figure, too,
was slight and graceful.

Nevertheless, Marjory rather pettishly owned
herself disappointed.

Unconscious of all this scrutiny, the young
lady Alas looking out at the rain somewhat
anxiously.

It is not far she said, half to herself;
 just down Crown Street, and that little hit of
the Parade ; and I have my mackintosh.'

I think it would he wiser to wait,' returned
Marjory rather bluntly to this. ' Some one's
umbrella has just turned inside-out  the wind
seems rising a little.'

If it were my own business,' observed the
other dubiously ; ' but invalids never like to be
kept waiting. My brother wants the second
volume of this book, and the library is on the
Parade. Oh yes, I think I must venture,
thank you.' And then she nodded to Marjory
with another smile, and five minutes afterwards
Marjory saw her breasting the formidable
corner.

As there seemed little hope of the weather
lifting before noon, Marjory soon made up her
mind to follow her example ; but so desultory
were her movements, that almost before she
had turned into Crown Street, she caught
sight of her late companion coming back
with some 2:rcen volumes in her hand. She

held them out to Marjory in quite a friendly
way.

If I had waited two minutes longer I should
have lost them. A. lady came in for them just
as Mr. Lyons was taking them down from the
shelf for me. Isn't this delicious T she continued
: ' the wind and the rain, I mean.
Things are never so bad as one imagines,
looking at them from the outside.' And
without waiting for an answer, she moved on,
leaving Marjory quite cheered by the encounter.


She spent a pleasant hour or two after this,
making her little purchases and looking into
the shop-windows. She was feeling thoroughly
damp and exhilarated as she returned laden
with small uneven packages ; and her cheeks
had a fine bloom in them when she stopped to
accost Mr. Frere in a windy corner.
 * No, you must not touch them,' as he at
once offered to share her burthens. ' Most of
them are brittle, and would be injured in changing
hands.'

'Will it please you, then, to be sheltered
under my umbrella, as I see yours is useless ?'
glancing at it quizzically.

Yes, I must have it mended ; one of the
ribs is broken. You need not look at my hat 
it is only an old one. I am glad I came out ; the
air is beautifully fresh, and I have done a great
deal of business. I am quite in love with
that seaweed shop. I have bought some
nautilus shells for Anne, full of pink and coral
seaweed ; and a spray for Nellie to wear. Is it
not a pretty idea, Mr. Frere, for girls to wear
seaweed instead of artificial flowers ? The spray
I chose for Nellie is so fine and delicate  as
feathery as possible  and all pink and coral.'

Marjory was rattling on breathlessly, while
Mr. Frere seemed only intent in shielding her
from the driving rain, and kept his lips ominously
closed until he had her safe in the
portico.

Oh, thank you,' she laughed, for she was
in quite a giddy mood from her adventurous
morning. ' It is no use asking you in, I know.'
But to her surprise Mr. Frere followed her into
the little parlour.

Mrs. Chard, who was laying the dinner-table,
dropped a knife out of her hand, and stooped topick
it up before she greeted him. Perhaps it
was the exertion that made her turn so suddenly

red. Mr. Frere shook hands with her carelessly.


Good-coming, Mrs. Chard ; what pleasant
weather, to be sure  for ducks or any other
amphibious creatures ! Perhaps, as Marjory
does not belong to the tribe, you will be good
enough to see that she changes her wet things at
once. She is completely drenched, as you can see.'

*Dear, dear !' fussed her mother, drawing her
hand dovn the girl's wet ulster ; * she is as wet
as wet can be. What have you been doing with
yourself, Marjory, all these hours since breakfast
?  and I have not had a moment to myself
to look after you. And dinner is spoiling for the
want of being eaten  as fine a chicken as ever
you saw. There ! take off that wet thing  do,
and I will have it dried. And the velvet on
your hat is quite spoiled, Marjory ; and so is that
beautiful feather, and '

Oh, what provoking people you are !' returned
Marjory, a little crossly. ' As though a
little wetting hurt anyone ! If I had not been
so hungry, I would have stopped out longer ;
but I had all those parcels. Oh dear, how
hungry I am !' continued Marjory, restored to
good-humour at the thought of the chicken.

VOL. I. 14

I am so glad to hear it, dearie. Perhaps
Mr. Frere would stop and have a bit with us ?'
observed Mrs. Chard, not looking at him, but at
her daughter.

*No, thank you,' returned Mr. Frere hastily.
I  I never eat luncheon ; at least, it is not a
regular meal with me  is it, Marjory ? I have
letters to write, and I must not wait  thank you
all the same, Mrs. Chard;' and then he
caught up his felt hat and hurried out of the
room.

Reason with himself as he might, he felt he
could not bring himself to break bread with this
woman. He had old - fashioned notions of
honour. The man or woman with whom he ate
must be in some sort his friend ; he must be in
amity with that person. The distrust he instinctively
felt towards Marjory's mother would not
Buffer him to eat bread in her presence and
under her roof.

Marjory spent her afternoon quietly in company
with an engrossing novel, while her
mother dozed on the opposite side of the fireplace.
Once Marjory raised her head from her
book and contemplated Mrs. Chard's face
thoughtfully. How worn it looked even in

sleep ! how lined and furrowed the forehead
was ! how the blue, transparent veins showed
on the temples and on the thin hands that lay-folded
in her lap ! Marjory's fixed gaze, rather
curious than sympathetic, seemed to disturb her
strangely, for she woke after a minute with a
startled look.

Is that you, Marjory T she said. * I did
not know it was you that was sitting there
watching me.'

Marjory gave a short laugh.

Why, who should it be, mother ?'

To her surprise, the tears started to Mrs.
Chard's eyes.

Oh, I suppose I was dreaming. Never heed
me, dearie. I have odd fancies sometimes. I
think a cup of tea would do me good. There !
I will get the tea-things in a trice, and
Martha shall toast some muffins for us. Stir
the fire, Marjory, and I will be back in a
moment.'

Mrs. Chard adjusted her widow's-cap with
trembling hands, and brushed the tears furtively
from her eyes ; and Marjory knelt down
on the rug and stirred the red, glowing coals
into a blaze.

142

I WILL GO WITH YOU MYSELF.'

'ARJOEY had not informed her mother
of her brief conversation with her
lodger ; she had a sort of intuition
that it would have been displeasing to Mrs.
Chard ; but she thought a great deal about the
girl  her beautiful voice and charming manner,
and the face that had somehow disappointed
lier. Strange to say, it had seemed familiar.

Where have I seen it before ? Where can
we have met T mused Marjory, vexing herself
with all sorts of fragmentary guesses, but at last
giving it up in despair.

She had hoped that twilight would have
brought yesterday's strains with it, but all was
quiet upstairs. Scarcely a movement overhead
broke the stillness. Marjory'' had been left alone

for a little time while her mother had gone
downstairs on some domestic business, when
she heard the quick rustle of a dress outside
the door, and the same voice that had accosted
her that morning calling softly for Mrs.
Chard.

With a sort of impulse she could not resist,
Marjory sprang to the door.

Do you want Mrs. Chard T she asked.
She has just gone downstairs to sort some
linen, because Martha is out. Shall I fetch her
for you ? She can hardly hear if the kitchen-door
is shut.'

Oh, thank you!' returned the young lady,
but Marjory thought she looked a little surprised.
' But no ; I think I will not trouble
you, if she be busy and Martha is out. It
is only ' and then she stopped hesitatingly.


Are you going out ?  and it is so late and so
dark !' exclaimed Marjory ; for the girl had on
her hat and ulster.

That is just why I wanted Mrs. Chard,' returned
the other. * I thought that she or
Martha would be good enough to go with meas
it is some little distance ; but if you say she

is busy The fact is '  knitting her brows

in a puzzled way  * my brother wants this prescription
made up. He is in pain this evening,
and thinks it will do him good. It is rather a
difficult prescription, and I wished to speak to
the chemist myself. The one with whom wee
deal lives in King's Street. That is some little
way off, you know.'

Yes, indeed ; it is very near the fish-market.
If you will wait a moment, I will go
with you myself. It has quite left off raining,
and a little fresh air will be delightful.'

Oh, will you be so good ? Thank you.
But, indeed, I do not like troubling you. I
ought not  indeed I ought not to ask you to do
such a thing !'

Oh, nonsense !' returned Marjory, with
cheerful abruptness. ' I should like a walk
beyond everything. It is so stupid sitting here
alone.'

Are you alone ? Oh dear, how dull you
must be!' observed the girl" compassionately.
Mrs. Chard told us you had a gentleman
belonging to you. Please don't think me
rude ; but we were only asking because I
thought you looked dull this morning.'

'Oh no, not particularly,' returned Marjory
brightly. * My friend, that is my guardian 
no, he isn't that exactly  but the gentleman in

whose house I live Why, dear me ! ' exclaimed

Marjory, interrupting herself with a laugh ;
how droll it sounds, and how difficult it is to
explain  when there is no relationship and his
sister has adopted me ! But what I was going
to say was, that he is at the Crown Hotel opposite,
and looks after me.'

Oh yes ; I see,' returned the other girl,
laughing out of pure sympathy. * Well, if you
will be so very good as to do me this kindness,
I am sure I shall be grateful. Shall I wait for
you here?' as Marjory was about to dart into her
bedroom ; and the permission being given, she
walked quietly into the parlour, and began playing
with the black cat, Joe, a great favourite withall
the parlour lodgers.

Is your brother a great invalid ?' asked
Marjory, as she and her companion turned their
faces in the direction of the old town.

Yes, indeed, poor boy !' was the sorrowful
answer. * His health has been very bad for the
last three years, and sometimes he suffers a great
deal. He has had a bad cough this winter ; that

is why we have come here. We were all together
at Brighton, but the east winds were too trying,
and so I* brought him away ; we have only been
here two days

I should think Whitecliffe air will do him
good,' returned Marjory, in an interested
voice.

I hope it will remove his cough ; as he is
suffering from a spinal complaint, we cannot,
of course, expect wonders in his case. How sad
it seems for a boy to suffer ; it comes easier to
women, I think. I have often longed to change
places with Barry  to take his place on the couch,
and see him run about. He is only seventeen,
and it does seem so hard for him ; only, of course,
it is wrong to say so. And to think he was
once strong and healthy, and that it is all the
result of an accident  some carelessness on the
nurse's part.*

One hears of such things often,' observed
Marjory, in the sympathetic tone that seemed to
crave for more details.

Yes, indeed. I am afraid the world is full of
sad things, only I do love to shut my eyes, and
forget that it is not really the paradise I imagined
it. I do think young people cannot help being

a little bit selfish ; they are so happy that they
cannot realize that other people are miserable.*

I think young people can be miserable, too
returned Marjory rather cynically.

Well, do you know,' observed her companion,
with an unsteady little laugh, growing confidential
in the darkness, * I am not quite so happy
as usual myself. I have never had the sole
charge of my brother before, and the responsibility
frightens me a little. I lie awake, oh, fora
long time every night  quite an hour  thinking
what I should do if he got worse, or had one
of his attacks of faintness. My mother was
obliged to stay behind at Brighton, and we have
never been without her before. She would not
have let us go anywhere else; but, of course,

knowing Mrs. Chard so well ' but here

Marjory interrupted her a little brusquely.

Mrs. Fowler recommended you to the lodging,
did she not T

Mrs. Fowler ! I don't think I ever heard that
name. No, I am sure I have not. Ah ! this is
Gibbons's. I hope he will not be long making
up the prescription. I shall be quite vexed if I
have to trespass on your kindness for long.'

Marjory assured her that she was in no hurry,

and was even disappointed when, after a minute,
she was told they need not wait, as the medicine
could not be ready for some time, and the shop-boy
should bring it as soon as he had put up the
shutters. She wanted to study her new acquaintance
in the full light, but the darkness
soon closed round them again.

I shall tell Barry what a good Samaritan
you have been to me. Oh, how odd !' and here
the girl began to laugh again ; ' we have been
walking and talking in the most unconventional
way, and we do not even know each other's
names.'

Mine is Marjory Deane was the somewhat
stiff response to this.

 And mine Lilies Carr; my second name

is ' but here a passer-by jostled the girls so

roughly that they were both somewhat frightened.

That fisherman must have been tipsy. Oh,
how I wish Mr. Frere were here!' exclaimed
Marjory, taking her companion's arm involuntarily.


It is such a dark night, and this street is so
deserted ; and how desolate that grey sea-line
looks ! I am afraid I was wrong to let you come
with me.'

Oh, what nonsense ! I like it ever so much
better than that stuffy little parlour. I like,
too, the idea of the scolding I should get if I
were to meet Mr. Frees And Marjory laughed
with wicked glee.

Is Mr. Frere young ?' asked Miss Carr innocently


 Young ? oh dear no ! he is quite old  at
least, is not forty-five old ? Only, I must confess,
he is not old in his ways.'

Oh, then it was he I saw this afternoon
looking at the house so earnestly ; he had grey
whiskers and wore a grey overcoat. Barry
noticed him too. I was trying to amuse the
poor boy by making up stories about the passers-by,
and I know I made up one about the gentleman
in the grey overcoat.'

Oh, do let me hear it !' exclaimed Marjory
eagerly ; but Miss Carr shook her head.

Oh, it was only nonsense, such as one can
talk to one's brother ; one could not repeat such
things.' And, indeed, Marjory would have
opened her eyes rather widely if she had heard
those extravagant surmises in which Miss Carr
had indulged, out of pure whimsical light -
heartiness.

Mr. Frere was a country gentleman with a
large fortune and a most unhappy history. He
had an insane wife shut up in a private asylum ;
and the young lady downstairs who was watching
the rain with such melancholy eyes was her
daughter, whom her father had been obliged to
send away from home out of the reach of her
mother's violence ; and he had now come down,
et cetera, et cetera. Miss Carr had entertained
her brother quite half an hour with the supposititious
history of the gentleman in the grey overcoat.
No wonder she blushed guiltily in the
darkness, and hastened to change the subject.

I wonder how one would like to live always
by the sea-side T

I am quite sure I should like it better than
Moor ridge,' returned Marjory.

Oh, do you live at Moorbridge ? what a
beautiful place ! We are Westmoreland folk.
St. Kilda's is well enough in the summer, and,
indeed, I love it all the year round, because it is
my own dear home ; but all the same I must
allow it is very bleak and desolate in winter, far
too bleak for my poor boy, though he will not
own it.'

You live in Westmoreland ?' remarked Marjory,

in a disconcerted voice ; she felt a vague
sort of regret at hearing her new acquaintance
lived so far away. There was no denying she
had taken to this girl at first sight, or rather at
the first sound of her voice. She had no time
to add more, for at this moment they had reached
her mother's house, and Miss Carr was too full
of her charge to linger an unnecessary moment.

Good-night, and thank you a thousand
times, Miss Deane !' she exclaimed gratefully,
holding out her hand to Marjory ; ' I shall never
forget your kindness, never!' and then she ran
lightly upstairs.

Come here, Marjory. What is she thanking
you about ? what is Miss Lilies thanking you for,
and what have you both been doing?' asked Mrs.
Chard fretfully, as the girl entered the parlour.
She spoke in an excited tone, and there was a
wearied, anxious expression in her eyes  the
old hunted look, such as she had often worn
when Ephraim Chard had been hard to her.

Marjory told her story rather carelessly ; her
mother's displeasure was nothing to her. But she
was a little taken aback when she found herself
overwhelmed with a torrent of reproaches.

I ain't pleased with you, Marjory, that I

ain't ; it is not like a young lady to go traversing
about the streets at this time of night. Why, it
is as near nine as can be, and me fidgeting here
for the last three-quarters of an hour. What
would Mr. Frere say to us both, I wonder  me
for not looking after you better, and you for
meddling in other folks' business ?'

Well, mother, I do call that too bad.'
Now, don't you go answering me and flying
out at me in your old way, Marjory, for I ain't
fit to bear it, and that's the truth. If I had
known you were going to put all this worry on
me I wouldn't have let you come, that I wouldn't.
You have never taken up with my lodgers before,
but have always carried yourself as high and
proper as a young lady should. You are just
doing it to vex me, not but what I have always
been as kind to you as possible ; but there, I'll
speak to Mr. Frere myself, for I won't have anymore
of these goings on.'

Have you quite finished, mother ?' returned
Marjory haughtily. ' You need not trouble
yourself to speak to Mr. Frere, for I will tell
him myself that nothing will induce me to stay
another day under your roof. I never wanted
to come, and I shall be thankful to go. You

can have your lodgers in peace tomorrow, without
any fear of my interference And Marjory
turned to leave the room.

There, now!' replied her mother, with a
whimper. * There's ingratitude ! after I have
slaved and withered myself to make things
comfortable and fit for a young lady  to fly out
at me in that way, just because I ventured on a
word of scolding. I put it to yourself, Marjory:
Do you think it is becoming to walk about
Whitecliffe with a young lady you never heard
of in your life ? If Mr. Frere had met you, he
would have had a word to say, I'll be bound.
But just because I am a bit irritable, and say
more than I mean, you threaten to walk out of
your mother's house.'

It is no use  we shall never understand
each other !' exclaimed Marjory, in a bitter tone.
Mrs. Chard's slippery line of argument, her vacillating
words  first angry and then apologetic 
filled her with a sort of disgust. What did she
mean ? What was there in this act of civility
to a stranger that should excite her like this ?
For that she was excited was evident : her
cheeks had an angry patch of colour in them,
and her head was shaking. For the first time

in her life, a suspicion crossed Marjory's mind
that her mother might have contracted bad
habits in her loneliness. Had she been indulging
in any stimulant ?  was this the reason of her
excitement ? ' It is no use talking,' she continued
impatiently, as the thought intruded
itself. * We are happier apart ; and so it is far
better for me to go.'

Well, but there is no need for you and me to
quarrel, Marjory,' replied Mrs. Chard. But it
struck the girl that there was a trace of relief in
her tone. * If you don't feel you can make yourself
comfortable, I won't hold to the week's end 
you shall please yourself about that. I was a bit
hard on you, dearie ; but I am that badgered
that I hardly know what I am about. But
there! you and me will make it up, and you
shall sleep on it ; and if you make up your
mind, tomorrow, that you would like to go back
to Moorbridge, I'll not be hindering you, Marjory,
for you are too good for the likes of me  and
that is the truth.'

Very well,' returned Marjory, much bewildered
by this ready permission to depart ;
and out of sheer contradiction and the perversity
of human nature, not quite sure in her own mind

whether she wished to go ; 'thenlwilldo packing
to-moiTOW morning And then, as a sort of
parting fling  a Parthian arrow  she observed
casually : ' By-the-bye, Miss Carr told me this
evening that she had never heard the name of

Fowler; and yet you said  that first night *

But her mother interrupted her testily :

Oh, don't be worrying my poor head anymore
to-night, Marjory ! I've a memory like a
sieve, as I'm always telling you ; so folks'
names get mixed up in my head, and I am
always miscalling them.'

But Miss Carr said that her mother knew
you quite well, and that she would not have
trusted them anywhere else,' went on Marjory
in the most provoking manner.

Well, that comes of my having such good
recommendations,' returned Mrs. Chard. ' One
lady speaks to another, and so the lodgings get
recommended ; but don't you go away with any
wrong notions in your head. I have seen Miss
Lilies, and her mother too, half a score of
times at other people's houses; and so, in a way,
I may be said to know them.'

Oh, indeed! I wonder why you gave me the
impression then, that first evening, that they

VOL. I. 15

were total strangers to you said Marjory to
herself; but she did not speak her thoughts
aloud. She only closed the conversation somewhat
abruptly by bidding her mother good-night,
and walked out of the room with closed lips, as
though she dared not trust herself to open them.

She cannot speak the truth. I am sure
Mr. Frere thinks so  and so do I,' she thought,
as she stood rather dejectedly by the toilet-table.
To think of the humiliation of calling such a
woman mother ! No wonder it drives me nearly
crazy sometimes. There is something behind
all this  something in which the Carrs are
mixed up. I wish I knew what it was. I am
almost tempted to stay on, in spite of her, and
find it all out ; but I am so sick of the whole
thing, that I shall be thankful to go.'

Nevertheless, as Marjory came to this resolution,
she thought a little regretfully of the young
stranger with whom she had walked that
evening. Marjory had formed her plans for the
morrow, but she had little idea how entirely they
were to be frustrated by a most unexpected
circumstance.

She had just finished her breakfast, which she
had again shared with the little shoeblack, when

she was very much surprised by the sudden
appearance of Mr. Frere. Nevertheless, she
welcomed him gaily ; and, of course, there was
an allusion made to his early rising.

 Well, you know,' he returned quite seriously
to this, ' now and then a man must deviate
from his usual habits  when his house is on fire,
for example ; or when some domestic calamity
has occurred  the death of a near relation ; or
one's own projected departure to the North
Pole or the Indies. An earthquake would get a
man up very quickly, or the loss of his fortune
might make the very softest bed uneasy to
him.'

Oh yes, I can believe all that,' replied
Marjory lightly ; ' but I am at a loss to know
what domestic calamity has brought you here so
early this morning.'

He shook his head laughingly at this, and
proceeded to seat himself.

Well, I may as well get it over as soon as
possible. I have had a letter from Anne, and
I regret to say that one of our household has
been seriously misbehaving herself. I never
thought well of that girl  never.'

Who ? What girl ? Oh, please go on !

152

You are quite frightening me And Marjory
began to look anxious.

No, no ; keep yourself calm he returned
soothingly. ' It is only Susan, the housemaid,
has the measles. I never did like housemaids
as a race  they are too fond of brooms and
dusters. But Susan  no words can express
the inconsistency and selfishness of her
behaviour, for, as Anne feelingly observes
in her letter  let me see if I can find the
passage. Yes, here it is ; and most charmingly
feminine and characteristic, as Anne's
observations always are : '* It is too tiresome for
Susan to have fallen ill just after her nice long
holiday, and at the beginning of the spring
cleaning. She only came home the night before
last, and the rash is out this morning. The
worst is, Marjory has never had it, and now she
will have to keep away for another fortnight or
three weeks. Of course, I shall send Susan home
as soon as she is well, to make the house safe
for Marjory. But the poor child will be vexed
to stay away so long ; and I am vexed too, for
my own sake " '

But here Marjory, who had been looking grave
for the last few minutes, interrupted him.

It is too provoking ! Stay here, in this
house, another fortnight or three weeks, just
because Susan has stupidly got the measles !
And I told my mother that I should pack up and
go back to Anne to-day.'

Eh ? Why, what does this mean ?' he asked
quickly, looking at her disturbed face.

It means that I cannot be two days with my
mother without her finding fault with me, and
making me quarrel with her,' returned the girl
rather defiantly. * Just because I did a little
act of kindness to the young lady upstairs, by
going with her to the chemist's to have a prescription
made up for her sick brother, and it was
dark and late before we got back, she went on
scolding and worrying, and threatening to tell
you, until I turned round and spoke my mind.'

Now, my dear, this will not do at all,' he
replied, looking at her very kindly. * Your
mother is trying, no doubt ; but you must keep
the peace with her while you are partaking
of her hospitality. We have got to ask her a
favour, Marjory, and it will not help matters to
quarrel with her. The whole thing is pretty
plain. Unless you want to catch the measles,
you will have to stay here for the next three

weeks ; and I mean to ask Mrs. Chard very
prettily to keep you, and to do the best she can
for you. For of course I shall have to go home,
and cheer up Anne, though I will come back every
few days and look after you  and three weeks
will soon pass.'

Oh dear!' sighed Marjory. * If only the
Affords had been at home, how delighted
Nellie would have been to have had me !'

True ; but as Parkside is empty at present
'

But Mr. Frere cut short his observation on
Mrs. Chard's entrance into the room. She
looked, as usual, a little flurried at the sight of
him.

Good-morning, Mrs. Chard,' he said cheerfully.
' I want you to read a portion of my
sister's letter. You will understand then what
sort of favour I have to ask on IVEarjory's
behalf, which has brought me here this morning.'



Mrs. Chard glanced at him doubtfully as she
took the letter. Both of them could see plainly
that her face clouded as she read it. She evidently
could not trust herself to speak, but gave
it back without a word.

Well, Mrs. Chard said Mr. Frere, in a
sprightly manner ; ' so, you see, accidents will
happen in the best - regulated families. As
Marjory has never indulged in that delightfully
childish ailment, my sister and I are
unwilling to expose her to the risk of
taking it.'

And you want me to keep her, Mr. Frere,
for a bit longer ? Well, there's no need to put
it to me as a favour to be granted  Marjory's
own mother. Of course, I am as willing as
willing can be.'

Nevertheless, Mrs. Chard's face showed no
signs of gladness ; on the contrary, it looked
most anxious and dejected.

It is quite true she and I had a few words
last night, and I was just a trifle put out. It
is not right for a young lady such as Marjory
is to go out at all hours and take up with
strangers.'

But Mr. Frere very evidently did not agree
to this.

Well, do you know, Mrs. Chard, I do not
think there was much harm in what Marjory did.
One must not watch young people too closely,
and the young lady upstairs is quite a gentlewoman.

I followed her down Crown Street
myself yesterday, and we were in the same shop
together, and I liked her voice and manner exceedingly


Oh yes ; she is that, no doubt,' returned
Mrs. Chard hastily. ' My lodgers are all a
good sort. But there is the drawing-room bell,
and I warrant Mr. Barry is ringing for his
beef-tea. I must go and get it ready for him 
poor young gentleman ! Oh, you may stay,
Marjory, and welcome. What pleases you
pleases me, and. I can't speak more fair than
that.'

And Mrs. Chard curtsied to Mr. Frere and
withdrew.

Did you hear that bell, Marjory ?' asked
Mr. Frere, when they were left alone.

No,' she returned, with an odd look at
him.

Neither did I,' he replied briefly ; and
after that they were both silent for a few
minutes.

ON THE EAST HILL.

t'E. Free was the first to break the
silence. Marjory had walked to the
window, and was standing there looking
out at a knot of fishermen who were mending
their nets in the sunshine. Something in the
girl's vexed, troubled face seemed to move him,
but he hid all show of pity, and began cheerfully
:

Well, it is no use crjdng over spilt milk ;
we must just put the best face on things. A
good heart will carry one over the worst road,
and a little jolting breaks no bones. The first
duty in life, in my opinion, is to get as much
fresh air as possible ; so suppose that you and I
put our vexations in our pockets and just go
up the East Hill, and you shall show me your
favourite seat, and '

Oh, I will be ready in a moment !' she
answered eagerly, without allowing him to
finish his sentence ; and, indeed, it was one of
Mr. Frere's idiosyncrasies to meander on so
placidly from one subject to another, that his
women - folk could not always introduce a
word.

Mr. Frere is very fond of punctuation, with
the exception of the full-stop,' as Marjory often
remarked; and Anne would observe tranquilly to
this, that * It was odd, but certainly most of
Capel's sentences were entirely original in their
grammatical construction, for they generally
ended with the conjunction '* and." '

*I have a great respect for *' and," ' Mr.
Frere would answer. ' It is the least exclusive
and most sensible word in the whole vocabulary.
It is not only a bond of union, but it is always
suggestive of more. Take it all in all, "" and "
is such a liberal fellow ; he does not shut the
door in your face like *' but." '

Marjory soon recovered her spirits as they
made their way through the old town and began
to climb the steps in the cliff, and they were presently
chatting in their old way  only, of course,
they started with an argument.

Mr. Frere wished to cross Castle Hill, but
Marjory had a fancy for the other route. She
liked the narrow winding steps and the odd
nooks and corners. Every now and then they
came ujon a secluded house, perched up high in
some corner ; a few more steps, and then they
would come to another, and another, and so on,
until they stood at last on the clear open space
leading to the East Hill, and below them lay
the old town of Whitecliffe.

Oh, how I love this hill !' exclaimed Marjory
joyously, as they stopped to gain breath
after their ascent ; and she looked round her with
keen enjoyment.

On their right were the ruins of the old castle ;
beneath their feet there seemed jumbled up a
confusion of rocks and houses ; and beyond, a
wide stretch of blue sea, with here and there
a white or brown sail gleaming in the sunshine.


A little bell seemed tinkling from somewhere ;
some goats were browsing near the edge of the
cliff. Between the hills lay the fishing village,
with its picturesque' red roofs; and westward,
Hayes Glen, with its wooded slopes, and the
white lines of cliffs standing uncovered in the sun.

Oh, low delicious this is !' she began again.
One can breathe here. The air comes straight
from the sea, and blows over the houses.
Everything human is below one's feet. There
are only the birds of the air, and the goats,
and '

And a very old donkey behind you,' put in
Mr. Frere, pointing out one that was tethered
near them. ' Go where one will,' he muttered,
one is never free from some specimen of that
class, biped or quadruped ; they flourish in all
climates and on all soils. But without them,
nettles would be a drug in the market ; and
Nature, frugal old dame that she is, abhors
waste.'

Marjory stepped up to the donkey, and tried to
pat its shaggy coat ; but it took no manner of
notice of her blandishments, being * an utter ass,'
as Mr. Frere observed between his teeth. Marjory
made a very pretty picture as she stood there,
flicking a hazel wand before the animal's nose.
She was dressed in a suit of warm brown, a
colour that she much affected ; and in her little
brown hat she wore the wing of some bright-plumage
bird, that seemed all manner of colours

in the sunshine.  You look like some bright-eyed

bird Mr. Frere said, as she came back to
him, and seated herself a little soberly on the
bench beside him. Their faces were towards
the sea, with its panorama of moving sails.

Mr. Frere planted his stick between his knees,
and looked fixedly before him. He was secretly
wondering where Marjory's thoughts were straying
just now. By-and-by he put the question to
her. Great was his surprise when she answered
at once, very readily, that she was thinking about
him.

About me !' he said, with a slight start.

Oh, I often think about you,' she answered
carelessly. ' Sometimes I wish I were a man,
and try to imagine what work I should choose
to do in life. I never can quite make up my
mind ; there is so much that is interesting that it
quite bewilders one's choice  and then I always
come back to you.'

Why to me ?' he asked a little uneasily.

You will not be angry if I tell you T she
said hesitatingly, as though she feared her words
would displease him. ' I know there is no need
for you to work, that there never has been any
need, and yet I am always wondering how you
can be content to do nothing.'

He shot a swift side glance at her as she
spoke, and a dusky flush rose to his temples ; but
when she looked at him after finishing her little
speech, he was apparently studying the donkey.

I have a notion that that fellow does not do
much for his living,' he observed nonchalantly ;
he eats to live, and lives to eat, and yet one
would not grudge the poor brute his share of the
common air and a few nettles. To be sure with
a reflective air, * he may have done good work in
his day. He has rather the air of a veteran who
has been superannuated, and has retired on his
pension. No ; I am afraid the donkey has the
best of the argument after all.'

'Oh, how you run on!' she said, amused at
this ; * it is no use asking you to be serious.
Never mind, I am in the mood for telling you
some of my thoughts. Oh, girls can think sometimes,
so you need not look so satirical.'

Very well,' he said resignedly, as he pulled
his felt hat a little over his eyes, and began his
favourite occupation of drawing circles in the
dust.

If I were a man,' went on Marjory, * I should
like my life to be crowded with interests ; you
have so little in your life, Mr. Frere.'

I have my club, and my paper, and my pipe,'
lie returned, in a lazy tone  ' three necessities to
the English gentleman. Do you call these
nothing?  the soothing pipe, the absorbing paper,
the club, with its kindred and choice spirits, its
snug little game of whist and ecarte.'

Oh, you have your club !' she returned
impatiently ; * but what of that ? You get up, and
you go to bed ; you eat and drink and talk, and
you smoke and walk, and then you shut yourself
up and smoke and read ; and, when the humour
takes you, you write some stupid paper in some
stupid magazine, about some Anglo-saxon custom
or other; and sometimes you go and see people,
and sometimes you go to your club. Do you
call this life ?'

Why, it is a good sort of life,' he said,
defending himself.

*Yes, I grant you that,' she returned, with
wilful misunderstanding of his meaning. ' There
is no harm in it ; you do nothing wrong ; you
are always perfectly good-humoured; you would
not hurt anyone, and you do your best to make
us happy.'

And you call that nothing !'

Oh, I call it a great deal. I am not finding

fault with you. I am only wondering that so
little should content you ; that you are never
restless, as I am ; that you do not envy other
men who have made names for themselves ; that,
in short  that you can bear to be only a looker-on
in this great big bustling world.'

Perhaps I do not care to be jostled and
shoved with my face to the wall,' was the reply.
And then, I am getting old, Marjory  forty-five,
and a fine crop of grey hairs.'

Oh, sou are not old  not one bit,' she returned,
moved to momentary insincerity by his
pained tone. ' People are only as old as they
make themselves. No one cares for grey hairs
when the heart is young.'

Again he looked away from her, and a
strange glow came into his eyes. Nevertheless,
when he spoke, it was in the old dry
manner.

It never answers to tell a woman she is
right  it handicaps a man, somehow. She is
sure, on the next possible occasion, tj remind
him of the fact. Reiteration is always weariness.
If it were not for this, I might confess
that a fixed career is an advantage, in some
cases.'

Oh, then you do agree with me !' she exclaimed
triumphantly.

If one had one's life over again,' he continued
without noticing this,  and could stand
on one side in full maturity to map it out for oneself,
I am not quite so sure that I should not have
made up my mind to read for the Bar. Why,
by this time I might have had a chance of the
woolsack!'

Oh, what a pity !' she returned regretfully.
And you are so clever that you would have
made a splendid barrister.'

Yes, I might have been flourishing in my
chambers in Lincoln's Inn, and haranguing
the learned judge for an hour together. You
would not have been ashamed of me then,
Marjory.'

I am not ashamed of you now,' she protested,
indignant at this. ' It is only that I
wonder sometimes, and that I am sometimes
a little  just a little  bit disappointed.'

She ought not to have said it, knowing him
as she did ; but she had really no idea how her
words would wound him. They stung him
with such a sense of unbearable pain, that for
full five minutes he could not answer her. She

VOL. I. 16

was disappointed in him  in his life  this little
girl who was so faulty herself; who had done
nothing in her sweet innocent youth but indulge
herself in her girlish fancies. And he,
who had lived down so much pain, who had
renounced a career of exploration and fatigue
for his sister's sake, because she was lonely
and unhappy and wanted him  that she should
judge him thus harshly ! True, she was Anne's
child, and not his ; but she had grown up
under his eyes, identifying her young life so
closely with his that he hardly knew himself
in what light he regarded her, or what she was
to him, except that nothing was good in his
eyes unless it pleased Marjory, and that any
possible loss of her would create a void and
confusion in his own existence. Muriel's End
without Marjory ! The very notion was intolerable.
But he would not let her see how
she had pained him.

My dear,' he said very gently, * young eyes
are not very far-sighted ; they cannot always
look into a man's past. That is the best of
getting old  one loses much of one's restlessness
 one ceases to expect too much of other
people. A correct knowledge of human nature

seldom comes early in life. So it is only the
young '  with a pause, and a smile at her 
who can afford to be uncharitable

I did not mean to be that,' she returned,
somewhat abashed at his gravity. Had she
taken a liberty with her kind old friend ? ' Oh,
you are not vexed with me for my foolish
speeches ?'

Am I ever vexed with you ?' he answered
lightly, with another smile, as she laid her
hand beseechingly on his coat-sleeve. ' Of
course, I know I am only an idle old fellow in
your eyes. You have not much of an opinion
of me, have you, Marjory ?' But, to his surprise,
he saw her lips tremble suddenly.

Would you care to know my opinion of
you ?' she said earnestly. * Could I have lived
so many years in your house, and not think you
the truest, and the best, and '

But here he checked her.

Hush ! Why, what nonsense, Marjory !
Tears in your eyes, too ; and all because a
worthless old fellow indulges in a bit of grumbling.
Come, let us walk. I can talk better as
I walk '  holding out his hand, which Marjory
held fast. Such was the sympathy between

162

those two, that her instinct told her she had
hurt him, and there was nothing she would not
have said to make amends for her carelessness.

Marjory Daw,' he said, laughing at her,
you shall have a peep, if you like, into an old
fellow's life.'

May I ?' she said, pressing closer to him,
and her face brightened. ' May I, Mr. Frere ?'

Oh, there are no mysteries in it,' he returned
indifferently ' I should have read for the Bar on
leaving Oxford ; only some money fell in, and I
grew lazy, and was bent on amusing myself a
little. Isn't it Dr. Watts, my dear, who predicts
mischief to idle hands ? Well, it holds
good with a young man's empty brains. Of
course the young man, having nothing better todo,
fell in love ; and then, when trouble came of
it, what must he do but contract roving habits,
on the plea of seeing the world.'

Oh, I never thought of that,' she murmured ;
I never dreamed that you had been unhappy.'

Of course not ; old fogies have no past
histories, have they ? Well, a traveller I was,
and a traveller I should have been to this day,
if Providence had not furnished me with a sister ;
but for her, I should have been in Central Africa

now  most likely only my bones though, bleaching
in the desert.'

Do you mean you would have been an
explorer, like Bruce and Livingstone, and all
those other splendid men ?'

To think of that !' he replied calmly ; * that I
might have lived to have heard myself called a
splendid man !'

No, don't jest,' she entreated ; * not just
yet, because I want to know this. And you tell
me so little, even now ; you only imply things,
and leave me to find them out. Did you really
give up all your hopes of distinguishing yourself
in life just for Anne's sake ?'

My dear,' he said very gravely, * I think 1
must tell you a parable ; parables conceal mighty
truths. There was once a grey goose, who kept
house with a little speckled hen ; and one day
the grey goose wanted to have a swim across
the big pond, but the little speckled hen would
not hear of it, and set up a cackling at once.
*' It is only swans that can swim, and you are
nothing but a big grey goose. You will make
a great hole in the water, and fall through, and
I shall never be able to find you. Oh, oh,
oh !" exclaimed the little hen, bemoaning herself.

So what could the grey goose do ? He
knew that he should not make a hole in the
water. He knew he had yellow webbed feet,
and that he was a tolerably gentlemanly bud in
his own element  that he could hold his own
among all his fellow's hisses ; but there was that
brown speckled thing clattering round him, and
he was a soft-hearted fellow, and gave it up.'

Oh, I can read your parable !' exclaimed
the girl breathlessly. ' You gave it up for
Anne  you gave it all up for Anne !'

Well, and vhat of that T he returned,
pretending to frown. ' Of course I was a goose.
I have known that all these years. By-the-bye,
Marjory, do you know I am wanted at the
present moment out in Japan ?'

Impossible !'

Nay, it is true. Do you remember my old
friend Fortescue, dio has been obliged to come
over to England on account of ill-health ?
Well, it seems that his nephew and young
Walter Fortescue have mismanaged things, and
got the concern into no end of a mess. His
brother Walter was never very good at business,
and poor Fortescue would give worlds if I
would run over there and give him some idea

of the real state of things. He has a notion
that Jackson  that is the nephew  is speculating
a bit. Of course, he did not ask me right
out ; but he threw out a pretty strong hint.
Did I not think a voyage would do me good ?
I used to be so fond of the sea ; and had he not
often heard me say that I should like a trip to
Japan ? and so on. And what a clever fellow I
used to be  shrewd enough to make my fortune
in business. You know the sort of thing,
Marjory.'

It was very cruel of him, I think. Why
should you do his business ?'

Nay, Jack Fortescue was my old chum.
We were at school together, as well as Freshmen
at Oxford. I would rather like to do this
turn for Jack ; and, as far as I am concerned,
the trip to Japan would be just to my taste.
But '

Oh, you must not go !' returned Marjory, in
an alarmed voice. * What is Mr. Fortescue
compared with us ? Anne would not hear of
such a thing  neither would I. Go to Japan,
indeed !'

That is just the way the little speckled hen
put it nearly twenty years ago,' he replied in

ON THE EAST HILL.

the dullest voice, ' and the grey goose is a grej
goose still. Now, hold your tongue : I will not
have another word said about my past, present
and future. By-the-bye, is that not your upstairs
friend, Marjory, the young lady in the
grey gown, about whom you seem so interested
r

'll z//

was

CHAPTER XIV.

I DO NOT LOVE MINE.'

HEY were turning into King's Street
as Mr. Frere spoke ; and just before
them was an invalid chair, which
blocking up the pavement until the
chairman could safely propel it across the road.
Miss Carr was standing beside it, looking
anxiously from right to left for some one to
come to their assistance ; for at this hour in the
day traffic was rather busy.

In a moment Mr. Frere had left Marjory and
was beside her.

Let me assist you. The road will be quite
clear as soon as this coal waggon has passed.'

And without waiting for her thanks, he
began to push vigorously, and in another minute
they were safely across and in one of the quiet
streets leading to the shore.

Thank you so much !' exclaimed Miss Carr
gratefully. *I am always so afraid of that
crossing ; and Cowen is a little old and deaf,
though he would not own it for worlds. Barry'
stooping somewhat eagerly under the hood of
the chair  ' this is the young lady, Miss Deane,
who went with me to the chemist's last night. I
know you will like to thank her yourself. The
medicine did him so much good she continued,
looking at Marjory. * He had a good night,
and did not cough at all  did you, Barry T

No. I was very much obliged to Miss
Deane,' returned the boy a little awkwardly.

And then Marjory came round and spoke to
him ; and in another moment the little cavalcade
moved on again  the girls tacitly falling to the
rear, and Mr. Frere, without waiting for any
introduction, walking by the side of the chair,
and talking to its boyish occupant as easily and
cheerfully as though he had known him all his
life. As soon as they had reached the corner by
the Crown, there was another halt : a fishing-boat
was being launched, and Mr. Frere had
desired Cowen to stop, that they might watch
it ; and in another moment the girls joined
them.

What fine fellows, Lil  just look at them 1'
exclaimed the boy eagerly. * That dark one
with the red cap looks like a Neapolitan
fisherman. Hov bronzed and strong he looks !
What an arm ! What muscles !'

He has a well-developed biceps,' observed
Mr. Frere drily. But his eyes rested a little
pitifully on the speaker. ' A son of the Ananias,
that.'

Yes,' observed the boy wistfully, * he
seems very strong;' and then he drew back a little
into the shade.

Marjory watched him rather sadly. * Oh, what
a pity,' she thought  ' so young, and yet so
heavily burthened with infirmity !'

He was about seventeen or eighteen, but
evidently his growth had been checked. It was
a beautiful face, far finer in feature than his
sister's ; but it had the elongated shrunken look
that one almost always sees in deformed people,
the preternaturally old expression that speaks of
anxiety and suffering. In his recumbent position
the narrow sunken chest and rounded shoulders
were hidden from view; but the long white fingers
gave Marjory an uncomfortable feeling  they
were so thin and bony. And the brown pathetic

eyes haunted her; they looked so pained and weary
so tired with their dreary look-out on life.

Her reflections were cut short at this point,
for Miss Carr suddenly discovered that it was
their dinner-hour, and that Barry must be hungry ;
and after this they hastily separated. Mr.
Frere remembered that he had letters to write,
and Marjory knew her mother would be waiting;
so, telling him that she would be on the Parade
as early as possible in the afternoon, she walked
off so quickly that she was safely in the house
before the chair was drawn up to the door.

Mrs. Chard said very little during dinner, but
she watched her daughter uneasily.

I am troubling myself dreadfully about your
being dull dien Mr. Frere has gone,' she said
once, as she brushed some crumbs from her lap.
It is that that worries me, Marjory.'

Oh, I don't mean to be dull if I can help it
returned Marjory lightly. ' We must just make
the best of things ; and, if I am not in your way,
I dare say I shall manage to amuse myself;' and
then she rose from the table. She had a letter
to write to Anne  a long chatty letter  and by
that time Mr. Frere would be looking for her.

Perhaps her letter was too long, and he was

tired of waiting for her ; for when she reached the
esplanade there was no light overcoat in sight 
no lazy broad-shouldered figure sauntering to
meet her.

How strange !' thought Marjory ; and then
she caught sight of Miss Carr, sitting alone on
one of the seats near the baths. She spied
Marjory in a moment, and waved her hand to
her.

I was waiting for you she said, making
room for her. ' You are looking for your friend
Mr. Frere, are you not ? Barry seems to have
taken a fancy to him, for he asked him to go
with him on the pier. The band is playing there
this afternoon ; so, as I was a little tired, I said
I would wait for you, and then we could follow
them.'

There is no hurry, and it is so nice and
quiet here,' returned Marjory, too much pleased
at this unexpected rencontre to remember her
mother's absurd objections about her lodgers.
Perhaps if she had recalled them, it would have
made no difference. She had taken a strong?
fancy to this girl, and it was evidently reciprocated,
for Miss Carr looked equally pleased at
their meeting. Marjory was beginning to wonder

why she had thought her so plain at first sight.
There was something so gentle and winning in
her expression, that one soon forgot the features
were by no means faultless. When she knew
her better, she soon acquiesced in her friends'
opinion  that whether she was plain or not,
Lilies Carr was charming.

One thing struck her, and she brought out
her thought a little abruptly  so abruptly,
indeed, that Miss Carr coloured a little with
surprise.

*You are not like your brother !'

That is what everyone says;' and it struck
Marjory her tone was a little vexed. ' He
takes after my mother ; his hair and eyes are
brown, like hers. I have fair hair and hazel-brown
eyes, like my father  at least, mother
often tells us so. If Barry were only strong,
he would be so handsome ; he ought to be, to
take after her, because she is so beautiful.
"When I was a wee child,' continued Miss Carr,
laughing, * I used to cry because I was not like
my mother, and could never hope to be beautiful
like her. What a vain mite I must have been !'

Children have strange fancies sometimes,'
was Marjory's reply to this.

I used to resent it dreadfully, when people
would tell my mother that I was not a bit like
her. Barry often found me in tears after one of
these remarks, but I never would tell him the
reason. I am not so silly now, for I know she
is quite content with me as I am. You must
not let me begin to talk about my mother,
because I shall never stop if I once commence,
and I have no right to bore you.'

 Are you so fond of her ?' asked Marjory a
Httle curiously She knew she ought not to
have put such a question to a stranger, but Miss
Carr was so simple and unconventional, so
different from other girls, and Marjory was unconventional
herself.

Miss Carr's colour rose at this.

Fond of her ? why, I have worshipped her
all my life ; there is no one like her  no
one.'

It must be nice to love one's mother like
that,' returned Marjory slowly, and in an
abstracted manner, as though she were revolving
a problem in her mind.

Miss Carr turned round and looked in her
face.

Yhy, what do you mean by speaking in that

tone ? I suppose all girls love their mothers,
do they not ?'

Marjory shook her head. ' 1 don't know ;'
and then the words dropped slowly from her
lips, as though weighted with lead, each word
separate and distinct : * I  do  not  love 
mine ! '

The moment afterwards she knew she had made
a mistake ; but at the time she felt as though
some magnetic influence had drawn the words
from her. But as she saw Miss Carr's shocked
expression, and felt her recoil in absolute horror,
she knew what she had done. It was too late for
prudence; she must set her right at all risks.

Don't YOU think we had better join them on
the pier V observed Miss Carr a little coldly, as
though the conversation were not to her taste.
Her changed manner gave Marjory pain.

Not until you acquit me in your own mind
returned Marjory impulsively ; * what a pity I
said that ! Of course, you could not understand.
Perhaps you will not be so dreadfully shocked
when you know that I have never lived with my
mother since I was p. mere baby ; that I hardly
know her better than I know you ; that we have
nothing in common ; that my bringing up has

been altogether different, as you will own when
you know my mother's name.'

Your mother's name ?' and here Miss Carr
began to look anxious and puzzled ; ' but I
should not know it, should I, in any case ?'

Not if it be Miriam Chard ?' and Marjory's
face had its hard, reckless expression as she pronounced
the words.

Miss Carr's start of surprise was very obvious.

Miriam Chard  our Mrs. Chard  your
mother?' she returned confusedly; * but  but
I thought your name was Deane.'

So it is,' replied Marjory rather sullenly ;
I told you so last night  Marjory Deane. My
stepfather's name was Chard.'

But I do not understand,' returned the other
girl, in a bewildered voice ; ' Mrs. Chard would
surely have told me if she were expecting her
daughter.'

You knew she had a daughter T questioned
Marjory.

Oh yes ; my mother always asks after her.
She has been so interested about her ever since
she knew that Miriam  Mrs. Chard, I mean 
found her so unexpectedly. It was you who
were lost, then?' in a still more bewildered voice,

VOL. I. 17

and whom some kind people had adopted as
their own child ; and a light evidently breaking
upon her, * I suppose it was our friend in the
grey overcoat, Mr. Frere, who adopted you ?'

Not Mr. Frere, but his sister,' corrected
Marjory. * I live with them ; Muriel's End is
my home, not here.'

Oh no, of course not,' replied the other
hastily ; and then she went on without lifting
her eyes, ' How strange ! I cannot understand it
even now. It was so odd of Mrs. Chard not to
tell us; she must have known how interested
Barry and I should be. It is not like her to
be so close.'

You do not know my mother,' was on Marjory's
lips, but she magnanimously forbore to
utter the words ; on the contrary, some instinct
of generosity made her resolve to shield her
mother, if possible, from any charge of double-dealing.


It was for my sake  she said so at least,'
she returned, speaking with a little difficulty.

She thought it would be hard for me having to
acknowledge it. She asked me to hide it, too,
but I refused. I said I preferred to leave it to
chance. I think,' in a steadier voice, * it is

always better to tell the whole truth about
one's self  it prevents mistakes.'

You are quite right returned Miss Carr
warmly; ' I am so glad you feel like that.' And
then her face brightened. ' It was wrong of
Mrs. Chard, but I can understand that she meant
it kindly ; she is a good creature, and I am
very fond of her. You know she was ray

mother's ' but here she stopped confusedly,

and bit her lip ; she had quite forgotten to whom
she was speaking.

That she was your mother's servant, I suppose
?' returned Marjory, in a stern unabashed
voice  she was beginning to piece facts together,
and she instinctively grasped at this.
And then, as an awkward silence intervened, she
continued quickly, ' I am glad I told you ; I do
hate anything that is not quite straightforward.
We might have got to have known each other
better during the next few weeks, and to like
each other, and then it would have been painful

to break it off; but now ' she did not finish

her speech, but she drew up her long neck and
looked down at the other girl with the air of an
injured princess.

Oh, you must not take it in that way,' replied

172

Miss Can* sootlimj]:lv. ' Of course it is true
what you say, but I shall never think you belong
to your mother  you are Miss Deane to me ; anyone
can see you are a gentlewoman. Forgive
me, but I could not help saying that, and no one
could be mistaken in Mr. Frere for a moment.
Why with a droll little laugh, as though to hide
deeper feelings, * Moses was the son of Pharaoh's
daughter, and I do not believe any of the people
in the palace remembered that poor homely
Jochebed at all.'

Does that mean,' asked Marjoiy slowly, and
her whole face flushed duskily, ' that you are
not ashamed of knowing me T

There was no one just then in sight, for the
loiterers on the Esplanade had been attracted by
the sound of the band towards the pier. As
Marjory put the question in an anxious,
shamefaced way. Miss Carr suddenly stooped
towards her impulsively and kissed her on the
cheek.

It means that I intend to know you  that
you and I are going to be good friends !' cried
the warm-hearted girl.

It was that kiss and those few generous
words that made Marjory love Lilies Carr from

that day ; and though she said nothing, and
accepted the caress with surprised passivity,
there was a look in her brown eyes that spoke
volumes.

'Oh dear!' laughed Lilies, but there were
tears in her eyes, ' who would have thought,
when I promised Mr. Frere to wait for you
here, that we should have had this little scene !
Well, you feel better now, do you not ?'

Oh yes ; I feel better.'

Very well, then, you must talk to me. I
am the most curious little soul in the world. I
do so love hearing about other people, and
knowing their histories and their feelings, and
what they think and what they do. It is better
than reading books. The most exciting novel
would not be half so interesting. Two or
three years ago, when I was at the poetry-writing
sentimental age, I once thought 
please do not laugh  that I would write a
book myself.'

A very good idea,' encouraged Marjory.

I had been ill, and during my convalescence
I had perfectly satiated myself with novels. I
never read so many before or since, and I got it
into my head that they were all very stupid ;

they all ended in the same way, to the
jangling of wedding-bells, and a general let-off
of moral fireworks ; and I determined mine
should be quite different and altogether
original

Well r

Oh, of course it came to nothing ; the
whole subject was too exhaustive for a girl's
crude imagination. You see, I fixed the period
at the time of Noah ; the heroes and heroines
were to be distant relations of his, living in an
obscure valley somewhere in the land of Nod ;
and just when the plot got most interesting, and
people would begin to be excited over it, I
intended the flood to come and sweep them all
away. No one has had an ending like that, you
know. It would be perfectly novel  you must
allow that.'

 Oh dear, yes !' returned Marjory, thoroughly
amused. ' It would certainly have had that
merit.'

I never got beyond the first two chapters.'
replied Miss Carr, shaking her head. ' I
managed the hero, Miznah Zeboim, very well ;
but I found the talk and the manners and
customs baffled me. You see, one knows so

little about that period, and has to draw so
largely on one's imagination. So I gave it up.
I was not original enough myself.'

How could you think of such things !' exclaimed
Marjory admiringly.

But Miss Carr refused to talk any more nonsense.
On the contrary, she began to question
her companion so gently and delicately about her
kind friends at Muriel's End, and her own
interests and manner of life there, that Marjory's
reserve quite thawed, and she found herself
talking in a girlish, open-hearted way, as she
had never done to anyone but Anne and her old
friend Nellie.

Miss Carr was soon in possession of all the
salient points of Marjory's past history  from
the time her little tripping feet came across the
snow and her baby grief was hushed in Anne's
kind arms, up to the present date. The simple
household at Muriel's End ; the quiet everyday
life, so peaceful, so free from excitement ; the
Down, with its sociable, prosaic inhabitants, its
petty interests, its small carping jealousies 
were all revealed to her ; but bright and graphic
as Marjory's descriptions were, Lilies's sensitive
ear lacked something in her narrative. The

girl beside her, in Avliom she had grown so
strangely interested, was not perfectly content
with her life. Now and then her speech
breathed a spirit of heaviness ; there were
words dropped here and there  short sentences
that opened a margin of doubt  little things
that she let fall, as it were, unconsciously.

She had so few duties, and Anne had so
many. Girls could not visit the poor ; besides,
she never liked that sort of work. A little
gardening, a little work, some reading, and a
good deal of tennis and walking  well, she supposed
that was enough for most girls, but it
hardly contented her.'

Then, again :

Nellie was nice, and so was Mrs. Walford ;
but most of the people on the Down were so
stupid  had so few ideas beyond their own
household, she (Marjory) never could get on
with them ; they bored her to death. Anne was
different. She liked everybody ; they were all
interesting to her. Mr. Frere often nicknamed
her *' Little Charity" and the name just suited
her.'

'Oh, I know I should like your Miss Anne !'
observed Lilies involuntarily ; and then she

started up. * Why, there they are coming
back ! We have been sitting here an hour and
a half, and I have quite forgotten my poor boy.
To think of my troubling Mr. Frere for a whole
afternoon !'

Oh, he will not mind. He will be pleased
at the thought of setting you free for an hour.
He said this morning that you looked fagged and
tired, and what a pity it was you had no friend
to help you with such a charge.'

Oh, but I am quite ashamed of my carelessness
!' returned Miss Carr, in a low voice ; but
she had no opportunity of expressing her contrition,
for Mr. Frere stopped her at the first
word.

You will not be so cruel as to take off the
edge of my enjoyment,' he began, in the tone of
lazy good-humour that Marjory knew so well,
to deprive the cream of its richness. No one
but a cat can enjoys skimmed milk, and she only
makes a pretence at it. I was so grateful for
the trust that you had reposed in me, in allowing
me to accompany your brother ; and we have
had a first-rate time of it  only you must not
spoil it for us.'

Thank you ; then I will not say anything

about my remissness she returned, with a
pleased glance at him as she went to her
brother's side. ' And you, Barry  you have
not been cold, or tired, or wanting me T

Oh no, Lil ; not a bit. I have been enjoying
myself famously. They played all my favourite
tunes capitally, and Mr. Frere had me
wheeled into a sheltered corner, and covered me
with this '  pointing to a shabby black and
white plaid that Mr. Frere always carried on
such occasions  ' and we had such a talk !'

 So have these young ladies, to judge from
their faces,' observed Mr. Frere, looking at
the bright countenances before him, one of
which certainly had a more rested look. ' Now,
Miss Carr, I may as well impart to your private
ear that your brother is tired. He may assure
you to the contrary, but I advise you not to
believe him, but to take him home at once / and
as Miss Carr smilingly bade them good-bje, and
desired Cowen to wheel her brother home as
quickly as possible, Mr. Frere stood for a
moment watching them ; and then he touched
Marjory's arm, and proposed a turn on the
Esplanade before they separated.

That boy has cheated me out of your company

this afternoon he said, in a would-be injured
tone, * and now we have lost our last walk
together ; for tomorrow I must go back to
Anne

Oh no ; not so soon as that,' she "replied
quickly.

*' Procrastination is the thief of time' Oh,
Marjory Daw, have you already forgotten your
copy-book wisdom ? When one has to take a
plunge into cold water, it is foolish to stand
shivering on the brink. Now, without knowing
exactly why, I am loath to go away and leave
you. The feeling is foolish, and altogether unreasonable,
for you are old enough to take care
of yourself; so I am going tomorrow.'

You are always so sudden in your movements,'
she pouted.

Oh, I shall come back again when you least
expect me ; just when you are contemplating
some piece of mischief, I shall walk in, and
take you by surprise. You have not got rid of
my surveillance; please to remember that.'

I wish you would come back tomorrow
evening,' was her sole answer to this terrible
threat ; for how could any girl in her senses
object to so tender and generous a surveillance ?

He looked pleased at that. In her best moods
she would often say affectionate things to him.

I do not think you will be dull without me,
my dear,' he answered quite seriously. * That
new friend of yours, Miss Carr, has quite taken
m} fancy ; and her brother, poor fellow, has
interested me almost as much. Was it not simple
of the lad to ask me to go on the pier with him ?
I think Miss Carr looked surprised for a moment ;
and then she said, in such a nice way, that if I
would be good enough to go with her brother,
she would wait for you on the Esplanade, as
she was rather tired. Certainly she did look
tired.'

'I do not think she is very strong,' returned
Marjory ; and then she repeated to Mr. Frere
the substance of their conversation.

 Why, that was brave of you,' he said, in a
tone of strong commendation. ' I honour you
for that bit of moral courage  I do indeed ; and
as for that new acquaintance of yours, take my
word for it, she is one in a thousand. I do not
over-praise people generally  do I, Marjory ?  
but I think that girl is a trump.'

 I do feel as though I could make a real friend
of her,' replied Marjory, moved to demonstration

by this rare praise. ' Is it not strange, Mr. Frere ?
for I have only spoken to her three times.'

Oh, there is no accounting for these things,'
was the reply; and as they drew near the house,
he said suddenly: 'By-the-bye, if Mrs. Chard is
fussy about her lodgers, and teases you any more,
Marjory, you may just tell her from me that I
hope she will not put any further check upon
your intercourse with this young lady; that I
quite approve of it. Do you understand ? That
may silence her a bit, for she stands in awe of
me, I know. Ah ! there she is, looking out for
you. Eun in, my dear  run in ; most likely the
tea is brewing, and all the Chard activities are
in force.'

YOU MUST COME TO ST. KILDA's/

AEJOPiY did not much enjoy her tea
that evening. Before many minutes
had elapsed, she soon discovered that
something was seriously amiss with Mrs. Chard.
She looked ill, complained of a bad pain in the
region of her heart, and then followed a list of
complaints in the fretted irritable tone that always
tried Marjory.

It was hard on a poor woman that meant no
harm, that her girl should have no respect to her
wishes. Had she not passed at the back of the
Esplanade that very afternoon, and seen, with her
own eyes, how Marjory followed her advice,
sitting there with her lodger, and the two of
them talking as fast as though they had known
each other all their lives ?'

'Mother!' burst out Marjory, when she had
listened to this tirade, and her patience was
exhausted, *I wish you would let me speak a
moment ;' and then she gave Mr. Frere's message,
but, to her surprise, Mrs. Chard was not in the
least mollified.

What's it to him what I choose to do about
my lodgers ?' she said crossly. ' Mr. Frere ain't
my master, if he is yours ; a woman has a right
to her own words in her own house. As long as
you put up with me, Marjory, I ought to be
minded, and not him.' And as Marjory remained
silent out of pure prudence, she continued : * Of
course, being so thick together, not half a yard
between you, for the best part of an hour, and I
doing my shopping all the time, you have been
and let out what I charged you for your own
sake to keep quiet  eh, Marjory?' with an uneasy
glance at her.

Marjory's lips settled into a hard, inflexible
curve.

Out with it, Marjory. Of course you have
been and told it all to Miss Lilies T

What should I have told her ?' returned
Marjoiy, obstinately bent on making her mother
explain her meaning.

How that you are my girl replied Mrs.
Chard, becoming more slipshod in her speech asher
agitation increased.

Most certainly I told her that I was your
daughter,' was the cool, exasperated reply. *I
object to sail under false colours ; and were I
ten times your daughter, I would not learn one
of your crooked ways.'

What ever do you mean by that, Marjory ?'
faltered Mrs. Chard, turning pale under the girl's
fiery glance.

Nay, you know best yourself, mother,' she
answered, with quiet scorn. ' At one minute
you have forgotten your lodger's name  you are
not quite sure  it sounds like Cayley, you know.
Some one else has recommended them to the
lodgings. How odd that Miss Carr, then, should
know you so well as to call you by your Christian
name  Miriam Chard ! Not quite so odd, certainly,
if one recollects you were her mother's
servant.'

Mrs. Chard became still paler.

Did Miss Lilies tell you that ?'

No returned Marjory quite truthfully. * She
stopped herself just in time, but I grasped her
meaning somehow. I knew you had been a

servant, and somehow I put two and two
together. She did not contradict me, certainly
; so we may suppose my guess was
correct.'

I was only keeping it dark for your sake,
Marjory,' returned her mother, putting her apron
to her eyes. * You need not be so down on me
for telling a few fibs for my own girl's sake. I
did not want you to despise me more than you
do now. It is pitifully hard on a mother when
her daughter is brought up over her head. You
ain't like a daughter to me, Marjory  just because
I had not a bringing-up like yours. No
one told me a fib was such a heinous sin.'

 Oh, it's no use talking,' replied Marjory,
pushing back her chair, for she felt another
mouthful would choke her ; ' I do not wish to
be unkind to you, mother. You are ill, and
have your own troubles, and I need not add to
them. If I do not feel like a daughter to you
and God knows I cannot !  it is because you
vA]\ not teach me to respect you. What does
it matter for me to know that you were Mrs.
Carr's servant ? Should I think less of you for
that ? It is the want of truth  the crookedness
the '

VOL. I. 18

Here she paused, faltering from sheer emotion;
but her mother caught her arm piteously :

Don't, Marjory !  don't be so hard on me !
You will be sorry for it one day, dearie. I'm
not long for this life  ask them that knows
and there may as well be peace between
us.'

Let there be peace, then,' replied Marjory
wearily, as she sat down by the fire and let her
hands drop in her lap.

Yes, there should be peace, so she told herself,
when her mother had gone out of the room,
crying quietly as she went ; there should bean
end of all this wretched argument and recrimination
 this perpetual fretting and soreness
between two alien natures. It was not for
her to rebuke her mother's crookedness, neither
was it in her power to alter her. Oh, by all
means, while she was under her roof, let there
be peace and quiet between them.

But even while Marjory resolved on this
prudent course, and vowed inwardly to keep her
unruly tongue in order, it never occurred to her
to avoid the bone of contention by holding aloof
from her mother's lodgers. On the contrary,
Mrs. Chard's opposition only strengthened her

in her self-will, and, to do Marjory justice, she
had Mr. Frere's sanction for the intimacy.

So when an hour or two later, as she was
still sitting moodily staring into the fire, with
her hands idle in her lap, a light tap sounded
at the door, and a moment afterwards Miss
Carr's bright face showed itself, she forgot all
past worries in a moment, and welcomed her
visitor with her usual joyousness.

I knew you were alone,' observed Miss Carr,
placing herself, without the least hesitation, in
the low chair opposite Marjory. * Mrs. Chard
was with us just now and she complained of her
old pain, and said she must go to bed ; and as
Barry is tired too, he has gone off hours before

his time, so ' but checking herself quickly at a

sudden thought  'you are not expecting your
friend, are you ? I never thought of that.'

Whom ? Mr. Frere ? No ; he never comes
here in the evening. And as it rains again, we
cannot have our usual prowl. How good of you
to come down ! I was just feeling so dull, and
hipped, and miserable,' bringing out her words
with a sigh.

Never mind ; I am not going to let you be
miserable. No one is, in my company ; how

182

can they be, with such a chatterton ? Now,
there is a gloomy thought in your eyes.
Suppose you tell me what it is ?'

I only wanted to know if my mother had
been talking to you,' asked Marjory anxiously.

Oh yes ; she has been unburthening herself,
poor old thing ! She seems dreadfully unhappy
about everything. I am so glad you told me what
you did,' she said at once; *how she was hiding
the fact of your relationship to her, for your own
good. She owned to telling you a fib or two, but
the poor dear evidently meant no harm by it, so
I suppose we must forgive her. It is strange how
differently some people feel about little lapses of
this sort,' continued Miss Carr, in a musing
tone ; and though she said no more, Marjory
felt that her mother's want of truth had surprised
as well as hurt her; and after this, they mutually
changed the subject.

And now, what shall we talk about ?' continued
Miss Carr briskly.

Oh, I don't know,' hesitated Marjory; and
then she stopped, and said with a smile : ' It
does not matter  it is so nice to see you sitting
there; it does me good, somehow.'

'I am glad of that,' returned Lilies frankly;

that is why we are in the world, just to do
each other good. I wanted a little rest this
afternoon, and you and Mr. Frere gave it to me ;
and now I must try to amuse you a little in
return. Only, please tell me first why you are
looking at me so intently T

Because your face reminds me of some one,
and I cannot tell who it is,' replied Marjory, ina
puzzled tone. ' When I first saw you, I had
a sort of impression that we had met before.'

How very strange !' returned Lilies, in a
startled voice.  I had the same feeling about
you ; not that you were like anyone, but that
we had seen each other before. Something in
your voice seemed to vibrate quite familiarly
in my ears ; it gave me such an odd feeling that
I could not rest until I had heard you speak
once more. And then the fancy left me, but
now and then I catch it again.'

Marjoiy's answering smile was a little grave.
Miss Carr's words impressed her strangely.
What did this undefinable attraction and sympathy
mean between two strangers ? She had
never seen Lilies without her hat before. The
smooth broad forehead and heavy coils of
fair hair had been almost hidden. It was true

her face was too long and colourless for beauty,
the chin was slightly elongated, and the mouth
receded a little ; but her bright and varying
expression redeemed all faults. And she had a
very pretty figure, which her pale blue gown
showed to perfection ; her hands were well-shaped,
but rather large  perhaps this was the
reason why she wore no rings.

 You have no idea what expressive eyes you
have,' observed Lilies, leaning back comfortably
in her chair ; ' they seem to search one through
and through. When people look at me very
closely, I always think they are pitying me for
my ugliness.'

Your  I beg your pardon. What did jou
say T asked Marjory, not believing her ears.

My ugliness. I am not afraid of the word ;
but perhaps I ought to have said plainness.
Oh, I am perfectly aware I have no beauty 
I always tell people so. I do not mind it now
in the least ; everyone is just as fond of me as I
want, and no one wishes to alter me ; so why
need I trouble myself?'

But  but  you are not plain. I do not
think so now,' with a sudden conviction that this
girl's face was almost beautiful.

Miss Carr arched her eyebrows and broke
into a merry laugh.

You say that because you like me. That
makes me vain, because I can always make
people like me ; and it is the real me they care
about  Lilies Carr, not my face or a little bit of
skin-deep beauty. That is what I call nice.'

You think a great deal about people liking
you,' returned Marjory, watching her bright
face a little wistfully.

That is because I like them. Oh, do you
think,' with rather a troubled inflection of voice,
 that one can care too much about that sort of
thing ?'

About people liking you ?'
Lilies nodded.

Well, I do not know ! Girls get a little
morbid sometimes on that subject. Anne always
tells me that we ought to give out everything
without thinking of return. She calls asking
for much love a form of pure selfishness.'

I am afraid I am very selfish then,' returned
Miss Carr sadly. * If my mother did not love mein
the way she does, I should break my heart.
I want her to be engrossed by me ; to live
for me ; to give me the same measure that I

give her  nothing else would satisfy me. It
would not do at all to stand by, for example,
and see her lavish all her love on Barry ; we
must share alike, he and I ; and I will not let
him have the least hit more.'

Anne would call that jealous love,' with a
sudden warm conviction that this dearest friend
of hers was immeasurably beyond them both.

It is only with my mother that I feel so,'
returned Lilies, in a contrite voice, as though
she owned her fault. ' I do not monopolize
other people ; I am quite content with what
they give me. But one's mother is a part of
one's self ; I could not give her up to anyone.
If my father had lived, of course it would have
been different; she was devoted to him, but
now she has only Barry and me.'

'And she loves you both equally;' but, to
Marjory's surprise, Lilies coloured rather painfully.


I hope so, and I shall always hope so. No,
I am not so selfish as you think ; I would share
even my mother with Barry. It is we three
against the world ; *' the threefold cord " that is
never to be broken.'

And no one else is to come near you V

questioned Marjory, half laughing ; but in her
heart how she envied this girl, who could love
her mother in that way ! But what did that
glow mean on Lilies's face ; and why did she
find it so difficult to parry this careless speech ?

How can one know ? oh, we do not mean to
be so exclusive. Of course there are friends ; oh,
of course one has plenty of friends !'

'I wonder what sort of place St. Kilda's is,'
mused Marjory. ' I have only been to Westmoreland
once, when we spent a month at the
Lakes; but I have never heard of St. Kilda's.'

Oh, I dare say not ; it is not much of a
place, though of course the neighbourhood is
beautiful, and there are lovely walks and drives.
The place is dreadfully cold and bleak in winter,
and I am afraid it does not suit Barry ; but weare
all very fond of it. It was my mother's
home when she was a girl ; and when we came
to England after my father's death, we settled
there at once.'

Did you live abroad T

Yes, in Peru ; his work was there. But
when I was fifteen, we came to Mavis-bank to
live ; it used to be called the Grange in my
mother's time, but the people who took it on

lease changed the name. I do not think either
name really suits it ; it is a white house, rather
grim-looking outside, but so warm and comfortable
inside. A good many of the smaller houses
in St. Kilda belong to my mother, or at least to
Barry ; they will be his by-and-by. Father
built them ; and there are two or three farms
belonging to us, too. Years ago there was some
trouble about it all  soon after I was born  and
for a little time we were poor, and obliged to
go abroad ; at least, my parents were, for they
left me. And then things gradually righted
themselves ; and my father recovered some of his
money, and his investments answered. And soone
of these days Barry will be quite rich ; not
that he cares about that, poor boy !'

But you must be glad of it for his sake.'
Yes, and for my mother. When you see her,
3'ou could not imagine her roughing it ; she
looks as though she were born to be a queen 
as though everything must be smooth under her
feet. Life at St. Kilda's just suits her ; she
likes going about among the people, settling
their grievances, and making their homes habitable.
She calls herself Barry's viceroy ; but he
will never be so fit to govern as she.'

I do not see that. You must wait until
he is older

Yes, that is what Hurrell says  Mr. Wentworth,
I mean. How strange that you should
repeat his words !'

And who is Mr. Wentworth ?' asked Marjory,
with pardonable curiosity

Lilies's colour flickered a little.

Ah, he is a friend of ours. His mother and
mine were great cronies when my mother was a
girl. They live in a dear old place at Thorpe,
a picturesque village not far from us, and of
course we are always meeting. Mr. Wentworth
farms his own land, and he is my
mother's referee in all matters of business. He
laughs, and says he has two mothers ; and he
certainly is as good as a son to her.'

Marjory wisely kept her thoughts to herself;
but she glanced at Lias's unhinged
hand.

I am afraid you would think Headlands far
cosier than Mavisbank at first sight,' continued
Miss Carr, evidently warming to her subject.
It is an old red-brick house, with a sunny
terrace, and a great shady lawn  almost like
pasture-land  that goes sloping to the road ;

and the garden is so sheltered and snug ; and
there is quite a belt of green fields round it at
the back. In the hay season it is perfectly
delicious to slander about under the trees.
We have all spent such happy days there.
Mrs. Wentworth is such a beautiful old lady.
I call her old, though she cannot be more thana
few years older than my mother, who is quite
young in my eyes ; but then, you see, Mrs.
Wentworth has white hair, and she has settled
into prosy old lady's ways  perhaps because
she is rather an invalid. There is such a
difference in people. I do not believe my mother
will ever grow old.'

Have you many friends at St. Kilda's ?'

Not in the place itself. There are no
gentlefolk living just in the town, with the
exception of Dr. Ainslie and his daughter, and
the Moores at the Vicarage. There is a large
family of girls and boys there, and the governess
Miss Stallard  is a nice creature ; the rest
are townspeople and farmers, and all sorts of
respectable people, with whom one could hardly
associate on equal terms. At one time Barry
had a tutor, who lived with us  that was pleasant
; but now Mr. Moore reads with him.'

And you do not find it dull ?'

Oh dear no ! It is a little quiet in winter,
perhaps ; but there are always people driving
or riding over in summer-time, to take luncheon
or afternoon tea with us. There are several
families at Thorpe  that is quite close, you
know ; and we visit some people at St. Theobald's,
an old market-town a few miles off. So
that we are not so badly off for society, though
we do live out in the wilds. And my dear
Ruby  that is my horse  takes me just where
I want to go. Do you know, I have a plan in
my head : you must come to St. Kilda's yourself,
and see how we live.'

I must come to St. Kilda's !' And Marjory's
clear brown cheeks were suffused with crimson.

My dear Miss Deane, how surprised you
look ! Mavisbank is just Liberty Hall. I
invite anyone I like, and my mother just
welcomes them  she is quite used to my taking
fancies to people. I once took a fancy to two
girls whom we met in the Engadine, and to
please me my mother invited them for six
weeks. They remained nearly six months.
One of them married from our house, and is
living not five miles away. Her sister is

stopping with her now. I did a good turn for
Jessie Randall when I brought her to St. Kilda's,
for there she met her fate in the shape of a
young clergyman, and there she married him.
And Mrs. Blake  our factotum  made the
wedding-cake.*

But that is different stammered Marjory.
Your mother would object to me if she
knew '

My mother does know by this time. "We
Write every day to each other; and I never
kept the ghost of a secret or mystery from her
for an hour. I have told her all about you, and
how kind you were that night. She will send
a message to you tomorrow  a very pretty one,
too.'

But all the same,' returned Marjory, ' you
cannot suppose for one moment that when
your mother knows my antecedents, that
she '

Would welcome you most fully and heartily ?
Yes, I do suppose it ; and what is more, I am
sure of it. Wait until you meet next week,
and see if she and I do not coax you between us.
By-the-bye,' interrupting herself, *I came down
this evening to ask you something. I am going to

drive tomorrow to Hayes Glen. Barras wants me
to go, and Mrs. Chard has promised to sit with
him in my absence. Our lawyer  Mr. Meredith
has a house there, and my mother has asked
me to leave some papers with him. If you will
trust yourself to me  I am an expert daughter
of Jehu  I shall be so glad of your companionship.
They have a capital grey pony at the
Crown  he is such a spirited, pretty little
fellow, I quite long to drive him. Do promise
you will come !'

Oh, I shall be delighted ! How kind of
you to ask me!' returned Marjory, quite pleased
at the idea.

Then that is settled, and I must wish you
good-night ; for I am obliged to own that, in
spite of the pleasure of your society, I am
growing decidedly sleepy. For, as my mother
always tells people, ''I am afraid Lilies is not
so strong as she looks." ' And with these
words, and a cordial grasp of the hand, Lilies
took her departure, humming a little French
refrain, as she ran lightly upstairs.

PEPPER IS A LITTLE FRESH.

HE next morning, as Marjory" was
standing at the window, exulting in
the prospect of a perfectly cloudless
day, she was rather surprised to see Mr. Frere
crossing the road with his travelling-bag and
plaid over his arm. He was evidently on his
way to the station, and yet he had told her
positively on the previous evening that he should
not leave for Moorbridge until the afternoon.

She met him on the threshold with uplifted
finger and the frown of a spoiled child.

What does this mean ?' she asked, in an
injured tone.

*My dear,' he returned, Hie wise man should
be prepared for any emergency; to speak figuratively,
he ought to go to bed every night with

his boots and spurs on. If you vill allow me
to pass you, I will put down my bag a moment,
for it is undoubtedly heavy And as she relieved
him from the plaid, and grumbled a little
because his coat was slightly dusty, he continued,
' Never mind my dusty coat-sleeve. I
shall be well powdered with fine grey fragments
during the next two hours. The fact is, Marjory
Daw, it never rains but it pours  one trouble
brings another. Just because our domestic
affairs are slightly involved  spring cleaning
and the measles  and Anne is desirous of
my presence and fraternal sympathy  therefore
a most tiresome bit of business calls me
up to town, and will detain me there for the
next two or three days. I hope you intend to
sympathize with me under these trying circumstances.'


The business is about money, I suppose.'
My dear, you are young, and consequently
ignorant ; when you arrive at the age of discretion
you will know that money or women lie at
the root of all evil. Ask the Eastern Caliph,
whose world-renowned question, *who is she?"
will be handed down to posterity as a wonderful
piece of Oriental wisdom.'

VOL. I. 19

As you are in no huri-y, Mr. Frere, I will
put on my hat and walk with you to the station.*

'But as I am in the greatest hurry he
calmly assured her, ' I must decline this tempting
offer. My address is at the club, if you want
me ; and I am afraid that, looking at things all
round, from an impartial and unprejudiced point
of view, sou will not see me down here for
another week.'

Not for seven whole days T she said a little
mischievously, for in spite of his assumed
sprightliness, his eyes were so very grave. But
instead of his usual merry retort, he took her
hands and held them for a moment firmly, and
his whole manner changed.

Seven days  what are seven days ? Now,
you will laugh at me, and think me a foolish
fellow ; but do you know, I am leaving you most
unwillingly ? I never did believe in presentiment,
as Anne knows; but if I did, I should say
I had one this morning.'

A presentiment  and about me !' she said,
opening her eyes very widely at this.

Oh, it is sheer nonsense,' he returned more
lightly for she certainly looked a little disturbed
at his earnestness. * It is indigestion, perhaps;

morbid feelings are generally due to indigestion.
Why, what should happen to you, unless you
fell over the pier ? and then some one would be
sure to fish you out. You are not the sort to
be *' drownded dead," Marjory

Oh no, you would not get rid of me so
easily as that,' she said, falling in with his
humour.  I am your '  old man of the mountain
;" I shall stick to you both.'

 Let us hope so he returned, dropping her
hands suddenly and picking up his bag. * Take
care of yourself  God bless you, child ! Now I
must be off, or I shall lose my train;' and so saying,
he left the room so quickly that Marjory hardly
reached the door in time to wave her last adieu.

*Has Mr. Frere gone already?' asked Miss
Carr, joining Marjory in the passage ; ' Barry
wanted to see him this morning. I was just
coming down to invite you both upstairs.'

Yes; he is summoned unexpectedly to town,'
returned Marjory. * Are you going out ? would
you like me to go up and sit with your brother
in your absence T

Oh, thank you ; I should be so glad. I am
only going to fetch him some books ; but his
back aches so that he will not be able to go out,

192

and so it will be a long day for him. Some one
fresh to talk to him and amuse him a little would
be a great boon

Very well, then, I will fetch my work,'
replied Marjory, very amiably stifling a wish to
climb to the East Hill this fine breezy morning.
As she turned over her rebels, in search of a
particular shade she wanted, she smiled a little
at the redness of her hands.

He had no idea how he hurt me. I wonder
what possessed him this morning to hold my
hands in that way she thought ; ' he is certainly
very fond of me  fonder than he used to
be.' And then Marjory smiled again as she remembered
how different things used to be with
them, and how she would go to him regularly
for the morning and evening kiss, just as she
did to x\nne.

And then, all at once, when she was fifteen or
sixteen, he had checked her, not a bit gravely,
but in his joking way  she was so tall, quite a
young lady now  he meant to shake hands with
her in future ; and so he did from that dav.
Marjory would have been sorry if he had known
how often she had nearly forgotten this new rule
he had put in vogue. It would have caused a

little reserve on her side, but for his tact and
kindness. But his manner never varied to her;
morning after morning he would greet her with
the same pleasant smile, and evening after
evening his  Good-night, Marjory Daw,' bore
the same caressing sound to her ear.

'Always so kind, so thoughtful,' she said to
herself, gathering up her rebels and work-bag.
He was like no one else. No ; she had never
seen anyone else to compare with him.' And
then she remembered that she had never told
him about their proposed expedition to Hayes
Glen. How pleased he would have been to
know that there was such a treat in store for
her  and perhaps an invitation to St. Kilda's ;
but that last thought was too exciting. It
had kept her awake for hours last night, so
she put it away most resolutely, and went
upstairs.

Has your sister told you that I am coming
to sit with you a little ?* she said, in an easy,
good-humoured tone, as the boy  for he looked
little more than a boy  turned on his couch and
looked at his visitor.

Oh yes ; Lilies told me,' he returned, rather
shyly shaking hands with her. * Won't you

sit down ? It is awfully good of you, you
know.'

Marjory took possession of a chair midway
between the couch and the window. She had
often been in this room before, and she knew
this special corner. It was a large, cheerful
room, with three windows ; and the books and
work that were littered about, and the vases of
fresh flowers, gave it a bright, home-like air.
The comfortable invalid couch, with its quilted-satin
couvre-pied, was placed in the most inviting
angle. Nevertheless, the poor lad looked
far more forlorn than he had done in his
chair.

Marjory could see more plainly how stunted
and shrunken he was in figure, with his head
sunk slightly between the shoulders, that were
far too broad for his height. To judge merely
from his face, one would take him for a year or
two older than his real age ; but his voice was
weak and boyish, and he had the manners of
extreme youth. But for his sickliness and the
sharp worn lines, his face would have been
beautiful. The eyes were singularly so  dark,
brown, and pathetic  and the eyebrows and eyelashes
peculiarly fine. The forehead was low

and broad, but hidden by a deep wave of brown
hair that seemed to grow naturally close to the
temples. The mouth was beautiful ; only the
close pressure of the lips was a little painful at
times, betokening suffering.

You have been awfully good to me already,'
he continued, propping himself higher on his
cushions, * turning out that damp evening ; and
so was Mr. Frere yesterday. I wanted to
see him again, he was so jolly and all that; but
Lilies says he has gone to London.'

Yes ; but we shall see him next week, I
hope. He was obliged to go  I imagine about
some law business.'

Oh ! by that time my mother will be here.
We expect her next Wednesday or Thursday.
Lilies would be sure to tell you that first
thing.'

She did not mention the day.'

No ; we only knew ourselves this morning.
She has been nursing a sick friend, but now she
has pulled through ; so mother says she will be
able to leave her comfortably next week.
Lilies and I have never been alone in this
way before. I tease her dreadfully about being
so mother-sick.'

She seems perfectly wrapped up in her
mother,' observed Marjory, with a sigh.

'Oh, my mother is equally devoted to her!'
returned the boy, a little sadly. * I do not believe
they have a thought apart. You see,
Lilies is so awfully good for a girl  she is nota
bit selfish or cross, like other people ; and,
though she is delicate, she never makes a fuss
about herself, as some people do. Mother tells
me sometimes that she thinks she is almost too
good to live.'

There are not many people like that,' replied
Marjory, a little enviously.

He shook his head.

I only wish I could be half as good ; but
then, you see, what chance can a fellow like me
have for anything of that kind ? Why, I have
been lying here for the last four months, and it
may be as many more before they will let me
try to walk.'

I am afraid you have never had good health. '

No ; I have been pretty bad for as long as I
can remember, but things have been worse with
me for the last two or three years. Dr. Ainslie
will insist that I shall be able to get about by-and-by.
I am sure I hope so, for it is a

horrid bore lying here and giving other people
trouble. One can't help getting selfish, somehow


It seems to me that you are very patient
returned Marjory, feeling drawn by the strongest
sympathy to this poor lad.

He was almost as simple and frank in
manner as his sister, only there was an underlying
tone of bitterness that spoke of a troubled
spirit. Marjory had never regarded herself as a
very sympathetic person, but as she sat and
listened to this boy's weak voice, the strongest
longing seized her to say and do something to
comfort him ; and yet how was she, in the fullness
of health and strength, to comprehend the
sad mystery of a life that seemed set apart for
weakness and pain ?

You say that because you do not know,' he
replied, turning his face away. * Perhaps with
women it is different. It does not make them
feel cross when people are always sorry for
them and making a fuss over them.'

Oh no ; we can stand a great deal of
petting,' was Marjory's laughing response. * Do
3'ou mean that over-much sympathy makes you
cross ?'

 "Well, do you know he returned candidly,
throwing back his head on the cushions and
looking full in her face with his beautiful eyes,
I do believe I have an abominable temper.
Sometimes I sulk, and will hardly speak for
days

Oh dear ! that must try your mother and
sister dreadfully. I would not do that, if I were
you.'

Well, of course, I don't want to be disagreeable
; but what is a fellow to do when he is too
miserable to talk, and all the women are driving
Mm crazy with their fuss ? It just comes down
on one like a black cloud, shutting out all prospect,
as a London fog does. Life seems a preciously
slow bit of business then.'

I think I understand 3'ou,' returned Marjory
slowly, and calling her own perverse moods to
remembrance. ' In your case it is partly
mental and partly physical. It is not pity 
it is rousing you want when you are like
that.'

Why, that is what Hurrell says,' he replied,
looking at her a little eagerly. ' Hurrell
Wentworth, I mean. He is a capital fellow 
one of the bracing sort that gives jou plenty of

common-sense. He is always going on at
mother and Lilies for spoiling me, and letting
me give way to despondent fancies. It is like
a whiff of moorland air, hearing Harrel talk ;
and, do you know '  in a shyer voice   I think
you would do me good too.'

Oh, I am so glad,' answered Marjory, blushing
with pleasure. ' I never feel as though I
could do anyone any good. Anne  that is Miss
Frere, you know  says it is because I am too
unsettled myself. She is always quoting Archbishop
Trench's lines to me :

" Would thou go forth to bless, be sure of thy own ground.
Fix well thy centre first; then draw thy circle round'"

That's beautiful,' observed Barry, in a low
voice ; and he seemed to repeat the words
to himself. ' I must say those lines to Lilies 
she is always spouting poetry. x\h ! here
Sie comes, to interrupt our talk. But you
won't go, Miss Deane, will you ? Lil and I
get awfully tired of each other's company, don't
we, Lil ?' And as Marjory willingly consented
to forego her walk, the three passed quite a
merry morning.

Marjory had hardly exchanged a word with

her mother since the previous evening. Mrs.
Chard had evidently avoided her daughter.
And although they sat together at the mid-day
meal, there was little conversation between
them. Marjory mentioned Mr. Frere's departure,
and spoke casually of their afternoon's
expedition, but Mrs. Chard hardly made any
response.

I hope it is all as Mr. Frere wishes, for I shall
wash my hands of your doings from this day,
Marjory,' she returned, a little gloomily, when
Marjory said a word about the pony-carriage
from the Crown. ' It is a blessing that Mrs.
Carr will be here next week, before jou 3'oung
folk get into trouble.' And with this vague
remark the subject dropped, and soon afterwards
Marjory went to her own room to prepare for
the drive ; and as soon as she was ready she
joined Lilies, who was standing with Mrs. Chardin
the porch.

Is he not a dear little fellow T she called
out joyously, as soon as she caught sight of
Marjory. ' He is as playful and frisky as
possible  just like Ruby when she has had an
idle day in her stable, and too many oats. That
is what I like  a little bit of spirit.'

I should not advise you to touch him with
the whip just at first, miss,' observed the ostler,
who had overheard this remark. * Pepper is as
good as gold, but he sliows his temper if he is
put upon before he warms to his work. He will
go like a lamb, for all his play, if he is just
humoured a bit at first

Oh, I will humour him,' returned Lilies, as
she took the reins. * Don't look so dreadfully
solemn, Mrs. Chard. I have driven Mr. Wentworth's
pair of browns oftener than I can remember
to tell you ; they ran away with us once. And
our own Lightfoot has a decided temper, but I
never have any difficulty with him.'

Miss Carr was evidently a little proud of her
own prowess and skill in driving ; and perhaps
she was mischievously bent on frightening her
companion, for she certainly gave the reins a
little shake, which started Pepper off in a
moment. Lilies laughed as she heard Mrs.
Chard's stifled exclamation, and guided the
pony dexterously round the first corner.

You are not afraid to trust yourself to me ?'
she asked, with a glance at Marjory.

Oh no  oh dear no ! I do enjoy going
fast,' returned the other girl, as she leant

back comfortably in her seat, and watched
Pepper's skittish pranks as he tossed his head,
and threw up his Httle grey hoofs in full
enjoyment of his scamper on such a fine afternoon.


He is very fresh,' remarked Lilies once,
when they had left the town behind them ;  he
takes up all my attention, and I cannot talk.
I hope you do not feel dull ?' But Marjory
assured her that she was perfectly comfortable ;
and, indeed, both girls were sorry when they
reached Hayes, and the lawyer's house came insight.


It had been Miss Carr's intention just to leave
the papers at the door, and to drive back without
delay ; but unfortunately, as it turned out afterwards,
Mr. Meredith had just come in from town,
and nothing would satisfy his sense of hospitality
except that the young ladies should come in and
see his wife, and have a cup of tea.

The boy will look after the pony ; he is a
little hot  you have evidently driven fast  and
Smith had better rub him down,' observed Mr.
Meredith, assisting them to aught. * My dear,
I have brought jou some visitors,' he announced
in a loud cheery voice, as he threw open the

drawing-room door. ' Miss Carr and a friend of
hers  and you must ring for some tea.'

Mrs. Meredith was a pretty little woman,
with just a faint suspicion of brogue in her
merry Irish tongue. She welcomed the girls
heartily, and they were soon in the full swing of
tea-table gossip. It was Marjory who first
called Lilies's attention to the lateness of the
hour, interrupting her in the midst of listening
to an anecdote of her mother's girlhood. She
rose quite reluctantly.

'You were right in calling me to order,' she
said presently. ' I am dreadfully careless  my
mother often says so. I get interested in
listening to people, and then I forget how the
time passes. I like Mr. Meredith ; and his wife
is such a nice chatty little woman. She is a
second wife, and they have not been long
married. She has step-children  somewhat a
bore that must be, do you not think so ?' She
stopped as Marjory acquiesced in this, and then
continued, in rather an anxious voice : * Do you
know, I am afraid they have been giving Pepper
some more corn  he seems fresher than when he
first came out. I must drive him very quietly.'

The words were scarcely out of her mouth

before Pepper shied suddenly, and then,
tossing up his head with a frightened whinny,
tore down the long country road as though
the Furies were after him.

Marjory said afterwards that she saw a boy
with a pitchfork climbing the hedge, and that
the pitchfork had fallen into the road, almost at
Pepper's feet. It must have been this that
startled him.

Sit quiet, Miss Deane ! I have him well in
hand,' called out Lilies, a little breathlessly;
and Marjory obeyed her instructions, as she saw
how firmly and rigidly the girlish hands were
grasping the reins. Lilies's colour had not even
varied, though her lips were tightly pressed
together.

The next few minutes were like a nightmare
ever after in Marjory's memory : the hedgerows
were flying past them ; the whole world, not
they, seemed running away. Marjory began to
feel dizzy. How could the girl beside her sit
so motionless ? How was it they avoided,
now a deep, watery ditch, and now a heap of
stones ? How was it that they passed that
huge waggon in safety, when the waggoner 
foolish lout that he was !  only put up his

hands and shouted ? Was there really an inch
between them and the hind-wheel ?

The town was in sight now ; and they must
have come miles. More stones  another cart ;
more hairbreadth escapes, due to a girl's steady
hand. Pepper must surely slacken his pace
soon : he must feel the power of that light,
strong touch. But  oh, good heavens ! what's
that ?  children playing on a five-barred gate ; a
barking dog snarling fiercely at the heels of
a young heifer that has strayed on the road ;
another heap of stones, with a man's white coat
lying on it. Pepper has shied across the road
again  there is a sudden shriek, a scream from
the children  and Marjory knew no more.

But the state of semi-unconsciousness only
lasted for a minute or two. She was merely
stunned by the sudden contact with the hard road.
It seemed to her as though the children were
still screaming  as though the sudden crash and
plunging of hoofs were in her ears  as she confusedly
opened her eyes and leaned on her
elbow a moment before she struifled to her
feet.

The children were standing: a frightened little
group in the road; a doctor's gig, with a gentle-vol.

I, 20

man driving:; in it, was coming from the town ;
the chaise lay overturned against the pile of
stones ; and poor Pepper lay struggling in the
traces, unable to rise. But that confused heap,
half in the chaise and half on the stones, was
surely not Lilies ?

Marjory had to clear her eyes from the dust,
and collect her stupefied thoughts before she
could take in the real state of the case and goto
her assistance.

Wait a moment: we will help you,' called
out the gentleman ; and the next moment he
directed the groom to hitch his own reins over
the gate, while they lifted Lilies with difficulty
from her jammed and perilous position, and laid
her carefully on the grass, with a cushion under
her head ; after which. Pepper  kicking and
struggling, but otherwise unhurt  was got on
his legs again.

Is she hurt  is she much hurt?' asked Marjory,
kneeling down on the grass, and dreadfully
frightened at seeing Lilies 's eyes still closed, and
a faint streak of blood showing under her hair.

*I do not know; it is impossible to tell,'
returned the gentleman, who was examining the
girl with professional care. * We are just by

the town, fortunately. Will you tell me where
you live ?'

At Mrs. Chard's No. 26, Cro-svn Street
returned Marjory.

Oh, I know Mrs. Chard. I am Mr. Gilbert.
Will you be afraid to hold your pony while my
man drives the gig back for one of the Crown
flies ? He will not be five minutes gone, and I
will take care of your friend.'

Oh no,' replied Marjory, moving at once
obediently to Pepper's head.

The poor animal was much subdued by his
fall, and looked dejected enough, trembling in
every limb, and covered with dust and lather.
He even whinnied faintly, in a contrite manner,
as she went up to him.

Those minutes seemed endless to Marjory,
feeling shaken and bruised, and full of miserable
conjectures as to Lilies's injuries. If she would
only open her eyes  if only her face were not
so dead-white ! When the fly came rapidly
up, she could hardly bear to see her lifted in,
looking such an inert mass of drapery. As she
sat opposite to her, holding one of her hands,
her eyes sought the doctor's face rather pitifully.



202

She may be only badly stunned. I hare
not examined her properly,' he said, with professional
reserve. ' It was those stones, you
see. If she had only fallen in the road  but she
has had a hard knock, somehow. Now, my
dear young lady, this is twenty-six : will you
run into the house, and ask Miss. Chard to get a
room ready for my patient, and we will bring
her in T

Mother V exclaimed Marjory, bursting into
the parlour where Mrs. Chard was evidently
dozing by the fire, ' we have had an accident.
The pony ran away, and we were overturned ;
and Miss Carr is badly hurt  they are bringing

her in. Mr. Gilbert ' but here she stopped,

confounded by the look on her mother's face ; it
was as of one suddenly stricken. She half rose,
and then fell back in her chair.

Lilies hurt  my Lilies V she almost shrieked.

'Ah, I am afraid so; she will not open her
eyes, and there is blood under her hair. Oh !
mother, mother, why do you look so V

I ain't your mother ; I am lier mother. What
are you catching hold of me for, Marjory ? Let
me go  let me go ! I say  to my own child,' and,
as Marjory tottered back, putting her hands to

her head as though she had received a blow, the
excited woman rushed from the room; and through
the open door Marjory could see her almost
snatching Lilies's head to her shoulder, as her
bearers stood for a moment in the entry.

CHAPTER I.

I MUST SIT THERE AND WATCH.'

5*pijx OR some minutes Marjory remained
415 like one in a dream. There was a
#) rushing sound in her ears ; a sense of
confusion, of unreality in her brain. The pain
of her bruises was forgotten ; every sensation
seemed swallowed up in the effort of her inner
consciousness to comprehend and grasp the meaning
of those words.

'"I ain't your mother; I am her mother."
Merciful heavens ! could that be true V When
Marjory came to herself, she found that she was
repeating the words aloud over and over again,

VOL. II. 21

as one might reiterate some feverish phrase in
delirium, only somehow the meaning escaped her.
If it should he true,' she said, putting hack the
heavy hair from her face  and there was no one
there to see how white her face had grown  ' if
this thing should he true !' Then she stopped,
and smote the palms of her hands together ; then
walked to the window, and let the cool sea breeze
blow upon her temples, for something seemed to
stifle her  she wanted to laugh in her awful joy.
She could have laughed loudly and long. i "I ain't
your mother; I am her mother." '

A slight sound overhead, like the tapping of
a stick on the floor, roused her. Lilies had been
safely carried to her room  the large front room
over the drawing-room. Most likely the unusual
movements in the house had excited Barry's
attention. It was necessary that some one should
tell him gently of his sister's accident.

In another moment Marjory had collected her
scattered faculties : she washed the dust from
hsr face, smoothed her disordered dress, and then
went quickly upstairs.

The boy's eyes were turned eagerly to the
door.

Oh, is that you, Miss Deane ?' he said, in a

disappointed tone ; < where is Lilies ? There is
such a trampling overhead in her room; is there
anything the matter ?' as he caught sight of her
face.

We came to grief with the pony,' she said,
trying to speak lightly. - He was too fresh, and
some one jumping the hedge frightened him. We
were both thrown out. I am only a little bruised,
but your sister is rather more hurt

1 She is badly hurt; I can see it in your face ;
you are keeping something from me !'

'No, no,' she returned soothingly, for the
poor lad's expression frightened her. <I am
trying to tell you. She could not walk upstairs,
and so they carried her. She is a little stunned ;

but by this time ' But here she broke off!

much distressed, for Barry covered his face with
his hands and burst into tears.

1 Do not do not ! ' she exclaimed, in great
emotion ; < oh, please do not cry ! I am telling
you the truth. Her eyes are closed, and she
does not speak at present ; but Mr. Gilbert is
with her. People are often like that at first after
a fall ; they are stunned stupefied. The doctor
is with her; everything is being done. You shall

212

see him if you like if you will not believe me,

I mean.'

'If I could only move it is my wretched
helplessness !' he groaned. ' I suppose some one
would carry me to her if she were dying ?' cried
the lad hysterically. ' To lie hero like a log, and
wait, wait for what people choose to tell me oh,
it would try a saint ! And I am not good ; I am
not like Lilies.'

Ko, you are not good at all,' she said, quite
forgetting herself in her efforts to rally him. ' You
are making yourself ill, just to worry her when she
gets better. That is like the selfishness of you
men : you have not the patience to wait a little
until things right themselves.'

He was so unused to this bracing treatment
to be scolded instead of petted that he could
only lie and stare at her ; but Marjory would
not look at him, for fear she should be melted
into some show of pity and he did look so ill,

poor fellow !

I am just waiting until I hear Mr. Gilbert a
footsteps on the stairs, and then I will call him
in,' she said briskly. ' We will make him tellus
all about it, and then you can help us by
writing to your mother.'

But, to her surprise, he seemed to shrink from
this task.

Cannot you write ?' he asked, rather feebly.
I would give you the address ; and if a telegram
be necessary, Mr. Gilbert would tell you
what to say. I could not be the one to tell such
news to my mother.'

1 I think you are quite wrong,' returned Marjory
impatiently. ' A letter from a stranger
would alarm her far more. But, of course, if

you do not mind that ' And then she

relented at the sight of his quivering lips.
Now, there is no need to worry about that. I
am ready to do anything and everything for you
or your sister. I see the tea is on the table.
You have been waiting all this time ; no wonder
you are exhausted. But the kettle is boiling,
and I will soon have it ready.'

4 But I could not touch it !' he remonstrated,
in a miserable voice.  You don't understand,
Miss Deane  how can you ?  but when one is
in such suspense '

'Indeed  indeed I do understand!' she returned
earnestly, laying her hand on his for a
moment. ' Oh, you must not think me so
unsympathizing ! I am only doing as your

sister would wish. I think we ought to try
to please her, even in these little things. It is
no good two being ill ; it only adds to the
trouble. Hush !' interrupting herself. ' I
think I hear Mr. Gilbert. Shall I bring him
in?'

And as Barry returned a quick reply in the
affirmative, she waylaid the doctor and induced
him, a little reluctantly, to follow her into the
room.

'I have told Mrs. Chard he began; and
then, at the sight of the invalid, his hasty tones
softened a little. ' Oh, this is her brother, I
suppose ?  and he can give me the address for the
telegram. Mrs. Chard seems a little muddled
about it, and yet she wants me to communicate
with this young lady's mother. Well, perhaps
even in a slight accident  as I trust this may
prove  the friends should not be left in ignorance.'


But my sister  how is she "?' asked Barry,
in a tone of great anxiety.

Oh, I shall come and see her again by-and-by,'
returned Mr. Gilbert evasively ; ' and
then, perhaps, I shall give a better account
of her.'

6 But has she  is she conscious yet ?' persisted
the boy.

Mr. Gilbert gave Marjory a look full of
rebuke. He thought her evidently deficient in
prudence.

Well, no  she has not spoken to us yet he
admitted reluctantly. ' You see,' coming
nearer to the couch, ' she fell in a very
awkward place, on some sharp flint stones 
this young lady was more fortunate, and had a
softer bit of road on her side  and so there is
slight concussion of the brain. Only slight,' he
continued, as Barry started nervously at the
word, ' and I have no fears at all as to the result.
It is only a question of time. She may lie a
few hours, more or less, in her present condition ;
but, as far as I can judge, she has sustained no
other injury, except a slight cut which will soon
heal.'

But it was evident that the doctor's words
failed to reassure Barry.

1 Could it not be managed for me to go up
and see her ? I am not so very heavy,' pleaded
the boy, ' and I am sure Fleming could lift me.'

But Mr. Gilbert shook his head very decidedly
over this suggestion.

1 It would not do at all. I have just given
orders that my patient is to be kept as quiet as
possible. In this sort of case, freedom from
noise  perfect silence, is the one thing needful.
I have always considered Mrs. Chard a very
good nurse, but she is not well herself, and
perhaps this deprives her of her usual calmness
and good judgment ; but '

Here the doctor knitted his brows and looted
vexed. He had already seriously remonstrated
with Mrs. Chard for giving vent to her feelings.

Such nonsense, too, making all that fuss, as
though the girl belonged to her !' he had said
to himself angrily, as he went downstairs.

I was going to suggest,' returned Marjory
boldly, ' that I should go upstairs presently and
see if there be anything that I can do for Miss
Carr.'

Oh, there is nothing to be done !' was the
quick reply. ' She has to be watched, of course ;
but I wish her to be left perfectly quiet. Do you
mean '  with a keen look at Marjory's face 
that you would be willing to sit up with her
to-night ?' And as the girl nodded assent, he
continued, in a pondering tone, ' Well, it would
not be a bad idea. Mrs. Chard is not looking

herself, and she might have one of her attacks
in the night, and then who would look after my
patient until her mother comes ? Yes, we will
consider that settled. You can go up in about
an hour's time, and tell Mrs. Chard I have sent
you to help her.'

Oh, thank you!' returned Marjory, gratefully
; for she feared that she also would be
forbidden access to Lilies's room, and she had
the strangest longing to be there. ' You will
spare me to your sister, will you not ?' she
continued eagerly, when Mr. Gilbert had left
them.

Oh yes ; I shall be thankful to know you are
there,' he replied, in a dejected tone. 'Oh, I
shall do very well !' as Marjory looked at him
rather anxiously. ' Fleming  that is my servant
 will come in and attend to me. He is
lodging over the way, because Mrs. Chard had
no room for him

Is Fleming that respectable-looking man
who helped you into your chair the other
day?'

6 Yes ; he is a first-rate nurse. I could not
get on without him at all. He ought to wait
upon us by rights, only Mrs. Chard is so fussy,

and can't stand having men in her house ; so he-only
comes in every morning and evening. But
I can send for him if I want him.'

Oh, then I shall be easier in my mind about
you,' replied Marjory cheerfully, ' especially if
you will be good enough to eat and drink what
I set before you. See, I mean to keep you
company!' as she carried her cup and plate to
her favourite corner.

And as she talked brightly to him, Barry
forgot his nervous fears and grew more hopeful ;
and before Marjory left him, to prepare for her
night-watching, she had persuaded him to send
for Fleming and to go quietly to bed.

Poor fellow ! it is dreadfully sad for him,
being so helpless!' she thought, as she went
downstairs. < He will be better when his
mother comes. If his sister be long ill, it will be
very lonely for him. One imagines things so
much worse at a distance

But her thoughts changed into a different
channel as soon as she was in her own
room .

1 I am a good actress,' she said to herself,
whatever Mr. Pere may think to the contrary.
I acted well this evening, pretending to scold

that poor boy and to appear so bright and cheerful,
when all the time I was afraid that things
were bad with her. Oh, what a long day !' she
sighed presently, stretching her hands over her
head for a moment's relief. ' "Was it only this
morning that he bade me good-bye, and talked
about presentiments ? Will this day ever end,
I wonder ? But no ; it is to go stretching on
into the night, and through the night I must sit
there and watch and think, and never say a
word, or ask that question, until we know that
she is safe. Oh !'  with a still heavier sigh 
 it must be acting still, until the time comes forme
to speak.'

Marjory had no idea that she was doing anything
specially heroic, when she formed that brave
resolution of putting away her own doubts and
perplexities until the fitting time arrived for
their solution. In her present condition of mind,
it was courting martyrdom ; but when perhaps a
life might be hanging in the balance, what could
she do but stand aside and w T ait ? Nevertheless,
it would have comforted her greatly to know
that she was displaying true greatness of mind
under trying circumstances.

There was very little light in the sick-room

when she entered it ; a hasty glance towards the
bed convinced her that there had been no change
in the patient's condition. Lilies still lay in the
same unconscious state ; her figure inert and
motionless under the light covering ; and her
fair hair tucked up hastily, with the exception of
one long plait that had loosened, and lay like a
gold streak across the pillow. As Marjory
stooped over the bed, she thought how beautiful
it was. There was nothing painful in Lilies' s
appearance ; she was always pale, so the faint
pallor was scarcely noticeable. In the dim light
one might have thought her sleeping, instead of
lying with clouded brain in a heavy stupor. It
startled Marjory, therefore, not a little, as she
leant over her, and softly kissed her cheek, when
a faintly uttered * Mother ' most certainly met
her ear ; though a moment afterwards Lilies
seemed to sink away again into unconsciousness.
Marjory was about to speak a tender word in
reply, when her arm was violently clutched, and,
turning round, she saw Mrs. Chard looking at
her with a disturbed, almost frightened expression.


Come away ; come outside the door a
moment,' she whispered hoarsely ; and so harsh

was the grip on her arm, that Marjory thought
it better to obey ; and in a moment they were
both standing in the passage. ' Why did you
kiss her ?' began Mrs. Chard angrily ; but
Marjory noticed that she purposely lowered her
voice. ' Did not Mr. Gilbert say that no one was
to disturb her ; that we were to leave her quiet
until she comes to herself ? You ain't got any
business up here, Marjory ; and I hope you will
just leave Miss Carr to me until her mother
comes

On the contrary, I am going to share the
night-watch returned Marjory, coldly but
firmly ; and she repeated Mr. Gilbert's words.
Mrs. Chard's countenance fell as she listened :
it was evident that, in spite of her dislike to
accept Marjory's services, she would not dare
to set aside the doctor's orders.

There is an attack threatening she muttered y
as though to herself, ' unless I can stave it off,
and cease worrying;' then louder, 'Well, the
responsibility lies on Mr. Gilbert's shoulders,
not on mine ; one is enough for any sick-room.
I would have kept her quieter, if I could have
had my way ; but there, young folks are always
wilful,' and with this final thrust she drew aside

rather sullenly, and let Marjory pass before her
into the room.

As soon as Marjory had taken the easy-chair
by the window, where she could see Lilies and
notice the slightest movement, Mrs. Chard slid
into her old place close to Lilies's pillow, where
the shadow of the curtain w T ould shade her from
too close a scrutiny.

A little later on Mr. Gilbert paid his visit.
He took no notice of Marjory, but gave his
orders in a low voice, standing so that his
words should be audible to her. And after he
had taken his leave, both the women settled
down for their night-watching.

If the day had seemed long to Marjory, the
night was simply interminable. One hour
dragged on after the other, each one slower than
the last.

There was a small fire burning, for the night
was chilly, and every now and then Mrs.
Chard crept noiselessly from her place to tendit.
Marjory watched her movements with close
attention. Once when she would have anticipated
her, Mrs. Chard waved her impatiently away.
SI ie would do everything herself. "When once
or twice during the night Marjory ventured to

approach the bed, thinking she saw some change
on Lilies's face, Mrs. Chard eyed her almost
jealously.

It was a miserable ordeal for the tired girl,
but she fought gallantly with her weariness.
Her eyes had grown accustomed to the dim
light, and Mrs. Chard's face was clearly visible
to her, in spite of the sheltering curtain. Once
or twice it grew so wan and grey that Marjory
started up, thinking that she was ill ; but the
warning hand only waved her away. ' It is
nothing  I'm used to it,' she said harshly ;
the drops will give me relief by-and-by.
Your sitting there watching only makes me
worse. No; leave the fire alone. I will put on
a bit of coal with my fingers.' But Marjory
noticed that she tottered as she walked, as
though from weakness. Once, towards morning,
Marjory dozed ; indeed, though she would
not have owned it, she slept for some time.
The moment she roused, her eyes turned instinctively
to the bed ; and then she closed them
again, and remained apparently sleeping.

That moment had shown her Mrs. Chard's
empty chair. The woman was half kneeling,
half lying across the bed, with her face hidden

in the pillow, and the braid of golden hair was
in her hand. ' Oh, my darling !' Marjory could
hear her whisper ; ' my darling whom I have
given up ! But it is better so  far, far happier
for her, though not for me.'

A sensation of coldness, almost of sickness,
passed over Marjory; but she remained still.
A moment after there was a slight movement,
and she could not refrain from opening her
eyes. Mrs. Chard was standing by the bed
with the tears running down her cheeks. As
Marjory stirred, she came towards her, drying
them with her hands.

I have got a bit nervous and low with want
of sleep, 5 she said, with an attempt at her "old
manner. ' You have had a fine nap yourself,
Marjory  more than an hour  but you look
palish. I will make a cup of tea for us both ;
it will put a little heart in us.'

Marjory made no answer ; but as Mrs. Chard
turned to the fireplace, she moved herself with
some difficulty, for she was stiff from her
bruises, and walked towards the bed. Lilies
was still lying in the same position, but it
struck her her face was a little less pale, and
her attitude less rigid. As she stooped over her

ito

fold back the loose braid, it felt damp to her
hand, and the pillow and even the coverlet
were moistened as though with tears. What
agony, what repentance, what wrong-doing had
set those tears flowing ? Were they tears of
guilt or sorrow ? Marjory felt something like
pity stirring her heart as she went softly back
to her place. Mrs. Chard had not noticed her
movements. She brought her the tea presently,
looking red-eyed and subdued, but more like
her old self. The storm of feeling had evidently
spent itself. She even commented 011
the grey dawn that seemed creeping over the
sea. ' It will soon be morning, and then you
can go down and have a rest she said quite
pleasantly ; < for it is easy to see that you areas
tired as tired can be, Marjory

vol. 11. 99

Lilies S MOTHER.

T was still early, and the world was
only half awake, when Marjory crept
downstairs and cautiously unbarred
the front door, and stood in the porch to
breathe the sweet freshness of the spring
morning.

There was no human life stirring. The
Crown Hotel presented a blank of closed and
curtained windows. The beach was empty :
only the brown fishing-smacks and coils of ropes
lay high and dry upon the shingle. The tide
was coming in, with a low wash and ripple of
sound. A soft wind seemed to blow straight
from the sea over Marjory's tired face, lifting
the stray hair from her temples. The beauty
and stillness of the scene stole into the girl's

senses with a subtle feeling of rest after conflict.
Nothing moving on God's earth, so she thought,
except some white fantail pigeons that were
strutting under the bows of a large boat. A
dim golden haze lay on the sea, and above it
stretched the blue morning sky, with its benignant
promise of a day's sunshine.

It reminds me of a picture I have seen of the
morning after a shipwreck on a Cornish beach,'
thought Marjory ; < only there are no broken
spars and dismantled masts strewing the shingle.
It is an odd fancy, perhaps, but I feel wrecked
somehow, as though I had gone to pieces on
some concealed rock. I suppose I am the same
as I was yesterday, but I feel different. Well,
it is a comfort to know that there are two real
people in the world, anyhow;' and then she
sighed as she thought of the miles that separated
her from her friends.

A sign of life in an opposite window arrested
Marjory's attention. It was evident that someone
besides herself was awake ; but she was nota
little astonished when, a few minutes afterwards,
a tall figure in black appeared at the
side door of the Crown, and in another moment
was crossing the road with rapid, uneven 



steps, that sent the pigeons fluttering to the
roofs. Marjory watched her curiously. The
lady had evidently dressed herself hastily, for
she wore a loose cloak just folded round her,
and a lace veil over her head. A sudden light
broke on Marjory, and she moved impatiently to
meet her.

'I am so glad you have come!' she said
quickly. ' You are Mrs. Carr, are you not ?'

Yes, yes !' she returned, and Marjory noticed
how nervously her hands grasped the palings as
she looked up in the girl's face. ' But Lilies 
my child, how is she ?'

She is about the same,' replied Marjory, ina
soothing voice ; ' but I thought just now that
she looked a little less pale. Please come inhere
a moment '  opening the door of the parlour
 ' and I will tell Mrs. Chard that you have
come. The doctor has ordered such perfect
quiet, that we have to be very careful, and there
must be no talking in the room

1 Yes, I know ; concussion of the brain  that
was what he said. Oh, you have no need to tell
a mother to be careful !' and here a faint smile
came to her pale lips in spite of her troubled
looks.

Marjory thought she had never seen such a
beautiful face. The brown, plaintive eyes reminded
her of Barry.

1 1 arrived last night she continued in a low,
musical voice, that somehow thrilled to Marjory's
ears. ' It was so late, and I could not make
you hear, and I dared not knock loudly for fear
of disturbing my son. Oh, it has been such a
night ! I have been sitting watching the light
in her window, and praying  praying and longing
for day ; and then I saw the door open and
you standing there, and I guessed how it was
that you had been watching too. And now,
please take me to her. You need not be afraid
of her mother. Oh, we know how to be quiet
and how to efface ourselves, if it be for our child's
good !'

1 Come, then replied Marjory ; but she spoke
almost inaudibly as she led the way upstairs.

A sudden return of yesterday's dizziness
seemed to send her senses reeling. She stopped
on the first landing to recover herself, and Mrs.
Carr stopped too.

Will you wait one instant V she said gently.
This is my son's room, is it not ?  and he will
be awake listening, and worrying if I do not goto

him. Yes, Barry, it is I,' as the boy's voice
called to them both. * Why are you lying

awake, clearest ? Has your night been troubled
too?'

And Marjory, supporting herself giddily
against the wall, could hear Barry's low, vehement
answer :

Oh, mother, mother, I am so glad you
have come I It has been so dreadful without
you !'

Yes, I know,' kissing him ; ' but you will
try and help me, my boy, will you not ? You
will not fret and make yourself ill ? Now I am
going to Lilies. I will come to you again by-and-by
 as soon as I can.'

1 Let it be very soon, mother,' Marjory heard,
as Mrs. Carr softly closed the door.

He looks ill,' she sighed. ' All this is bad
for him. My poor boy, how much he has to
bear !'

Mrs. Chard was just coming out of the room,
with the little tea-tray in her hand, when she
caught sight of them. A sudden rattle of the
tea-cups made Marjory instinctively take the
tray out of the shaking ringers. Mrs. Carr drew
back rather frightened.

Miriam, my good creature, have I startled
you ? Good heavens, if I had caused you to
drop the tray ! This young lady was right. I
ought to have allowed her to prepare you

'It was foolish of me to give such a start,'
returned the woman, in a scared voice ; ' but I
was not looking for you for hours yet, and you
came upon me sudden-like. Why, it might
have been her death !' laying her trembling
hand on Mrs. Carr's arm. ' I fancied there was
a turn for the better, but a noise like that might
have killed her. I should have been as good asher
murderer, shouldn't I, Mrs. Carr V

1 Hush, Miriam ! what nonsense ! when this
dear young lady,' with a grateful glance at
Marjory, ' has just saved us by her promptness.
Now, not a word more. I want to go in and
see my child ;' and she turned away with gentle
dignity, and entered the room, followed by Mrs.
Chard.

Marjory crept in behind them ; perhaps she
had no business there, but she had yielded her
night's rest for the sake of this young stranger,
and she felt as though this had given her some
claim on Lilies's mother.

Mrs. Carr did not seem to notice her presence ;

she stood by the bed, looking down on her unconscious
daughter, with eyes so full of love and
sorrow that a great lump seemed to rise in
Marjory's throat.

1 Oh, my darling, my darling ! will she ever
open her sweet eyes and look at me again ?'
whispered the poor mother, in a voice of suppressed
agony ; and, as though in answer, the
limbs moved slightly, and there was a faint
flicker of the eyelids.

Mother  my own mother !' came drowsily
and indistinctly from the scarcely parted lips. A
lightning-like flash of joy swept over Mrs. Carr's
face.

She knows me ; it is only partial unconsciousness
; she is coming to herself!' She
sighed out the words as though overcome by the
very fulness of happiness. ' Lilies, my child, it
will all be well now ; your mother will not leave
you She checked herself as though her words
were incautious, and kissed her hair softly, and
put it back from her face ; and, at the touch of
her warm, firm hand, there was a faint smile on
Lilies's face.

Mother she said again, but this time less
incoherently.

Marjory, I feel ill ; I must have air,' was
muttered hoarsely in her ear, and Marjory felt a
heavy touch on her arm. Mrs. Carr did not
turn her head as Marjory guided Mrs. Chard's
uncertain footsteps to the door; she was still bending
over her child with fond worshipping looks.

1 Oh to be loved like that thought the girl;
'to be loved in that way by one's mother!'
But she tried to banish the envious feelings as she
placed Mrs. Chard carefully, though not tenderly,
on her own bed, and arranged the pillows and
covered up her feet, and measured out the drops
as she told her; and then ran down to w T ake
Martha, who was a drowsy body, and to bring a
few sticks to light the fire : for, in spite of the
spring sunshine that was flooding the little room,
Mrs. Chard's teeth were chattering as though
with the ague. Was this the attack that she had
been trying to ward off all night ? Anyhow, she
looked a pitiable object, cowering and shivering,
and yet demanding air.

I am like ice, and yet I can't breathe for
want of air,' she gasped ; and Marjory, obeying
her own instincts  for she knew little about
nursing  set open the window and door, and
warmed some flannels for her feet while the

water was heating, and then stood and fanned
her patiently until the paroxysm of pain had
passed.

Thank you, Marjory  thank you, dearie,' she
said faintly, after a time ; ' you have done a deal
for me, and I am easier now ; those drops
always give me relief after a while. Supposing
I turn round and try to have a sleep, while you
go down and have your breakfast, and bid
Martha do the best she can for Mr. Barry and
his mother. Oh dear, oh dear!' fretfully, 'however
will Martha manage without me scolding
behind her ?'

I think you had better lie still and not trouble
about anything replied Marjory quietly. ' I
will look after Martha, and do what I can for
Mr. Barry. When Mr. Gilbert comes I will
send him to you.' For Marjory felt vaguely
alarmed at Mrs. Chard's appearance ; the blueness
of her face and the darkness of her lips
seemed bad signs, even to her inexperience.

You are a good girl, Marjory,' responded the
other, turning her head away ; but Marjory did
not hear more, for she w r as anxious to set about
her self-imposed duties.

Martha's blunders and stupidity soon cooled

her enthusiasm, and she was looking at the
blackened fire in the kitchen with feelings of
despair, and wondering how the bacon was to be
toasted and the eggs boiled, when she was
relieved by the entrance of Fleming.

1 hear that my mistress has arrived,' he
said, ' and that Mrs. Chard is ill. Is there
anything that I can do ?' eying her doubtfully,
and hardly knowing what to make of this stylish
young lady in the brown dress, whom he had
just heard from Martha was Mrs. Chard's
daughter.

Anything that you can do ?' repeated Marjory,
brightening up at this. ' Oh, thank you, Fleming ;
I should be so much obliged if you would help
me get some breakfast for your master and Mrs.
Carr  but just look at that fire.'

If you will leave it to me and Martha,
ma'am,' he returned respectfully, ' I will soon
have it all ready. I can take a hand at cooking,
for I am an old soldier; and as to that fire, we
will soon settle that.'

And as Marjory gave up her place to him and
thankfully withdrew, she could hear him ordering
Martha about in brief soldierly style.
She was dusting the drawing-room, which Martha

had neglected, and making it trim and habitable
for its occupant, when Fleming entered with
the neat little breakfast-tray.

i I am afraid I must trouble you to take this
up to my mistress, ma'am he said apologetically;
for I dare not trust Martha up these stairs.
When you come down you will find yours ready
for you. And then I will attend to my young
master; but he sent me away just now, because
he was sure you needed help.'

This little piece of thoughtfulness quite touched
Marjory.

I Thank you, Fleming, for managing so nicely
for me,' she said pleasantly, as she took the tray.

Mrs. Can* was sitting by the bed as she
entered, holding her daughter's hand. She
looked up with a grateful smile into the girl's
face, as she brought a little table to her side and
arranged things comfortably for her. ' How
good you are to me !' she whispered.

Marjory shook her head at this.

I I am going downstairs now,' she said, ina
low voice ; * but I shall be back presently to
make the room tidy. Mrs. Chard is not very
well, and Martha is so clumsy that we dare not
let her come in.'

Miriam is not well !' ejaculated Mrs. Carr. ' 1
thought she looked strangely ill just now. Lilies
has moved she continued. ' She was feeling for
my hand just now. When the doctor comes, he
will be sure to say she is better

'I am sure of that too,' returned Marjory, ina
voice full of feeling. And then she withdrew,
feeling that things already looked brighter.

Marjory found she had enough on her hands
that day. When Mr. Gilbert came, he pronounced
a very favourable opinion on his patient.
The brain was gradually recovering power ; but
the greatest care and the most absolute quiet was
still necessary. Very little must be said to her.
There would doubtless be a few days of feverish
restlessness, but after that he hoped she would
be fully herself again. His opinion on Mrs.
Chard struck Marjory as slightly evasive.

1 It was one of her usual attacks he said.
Of course, she had been worrying herself about
something. He had warned her over and over
again, that she must keep her mind quiet, and
take care of herself ; but she would not take his
advice. She must just lie where she was for
the remainder of the day  indeed, for the next
two or three days she would not be fit for work

And when lie hud delivered himself of these
remarks, he went down to Barry, to carry him a
cheering report of his sister's health.

1 Don't mind me, Marjory ; you will have
enough to do, goodness knows, without my
giving you extra trouble observed Mrs. Chard
dejectedly.

And Marjory soon found that she spoke the
truth. But for Fleming's skilful help, she
would have been in utter despair.

Martha, who was greatly in awe of him,
obeyed his orders most implicitly. Thanks to
his supervision, the meals were served tolerably
well cooked, and Marjory found herself at
liberty to go in and out of the two sick-rooms,
which were happily adjoining each other, and to
perform all the sundry little offices that were
needed for the comfort of the invalids.

A sense of duty made Marjory hide the repugnance
that she felt in ministering to Mrs.
Chard: She entered the room unwillingly, and
left it as soon as possible. Mrs. Chard's gratitude
was coldly received : her one longing was to
be with Lilies and her mother.

The chief difficulty lay with Barry. The
strain of the long night had told upon him, and

a certain reaction had set in : he became more
depressed as the day went on, and Marjory found
it almost impossible to leave him. When her
services were not required upstairs, she sat and
talked, and even read to him. It was not until
the evening was half over, and Fleming came to
relieve her, that she found herself at liberty to sit
quietly for a few minutes in Lilies's room. A
sort of magnetism drew her there, and, but for her
overpowering weariness, she could have lingered
there for hours, just watching that quiet figure
sitting so tranquilly by the bed.

I have never seen anyone like her,' thought
Marjory. ' I fancied it was only Lilies's partiality,
but she did not say a word too much.
How Mr. Frere would rave about her if he
could see her !  he does so admire handsome
women. Handsome is not the word : she is
simply beautiful.'

And then, as she leant back among the cushions
and perused the face of Lilies's mother in the dim
softened light, she went on in the same critical vein :

1 She is very large and massive. I suppose
most people would call her a fine woman. But
how gracefully she moves ! Her features are so
clearly cut, like the features in a cameo ; and I

do so admire that creamy complexion ; and her
hair is as brown as mine  like a Spanish
chestnut  not a grey hair to be seen. I wonder
Lilies is not more like her ; but Mr. Barry hasher
eyes

As though conscious of Marjory's scrutiny,
Mrs. Carr looked up and smiled; and a moment
afterwards she crossed the room to the girl's side.

1 I was just thinking how tired you looked
she said, putting a large but beautifully-shaped
hand on Marjory's shoulder. ' Young people
cannot afford to lose a night's rest : it is only
we elder folk, who have served our apprenticeship
in a sick-room.'

But you had no sleep either,' replied Marjory
hastily. ( It is dreadful to think of your
sitting up to-night, too !'

1 Dreadful to sit by my child's side ?' returned
Mrs. Carr, with gentle reproach. ' Do you
know how happy I shall be ? Yesterday  oh,
it was martyrdom ! But to-night it will be so
different ! She is sleeping now, poor darling ;
but when she wakes, how pleased she will be to
see me beside her !'

1 I will bid you good-night, then,' replied
Marjory, a little abruptly.

That odd choking was in her throat again.
Was she growing envious of this girl, who had
been saved from death, because of this tender
love that seemed enfolding her ?

'Yes, you shall go,' returned Mrs. Carr, a
little surprised by her manner, and still more
by the moody look in the girl's eyes ; ' but I
must thank you first for being so good to my
children. I know all you have done for Barry
to-day, and how kindly you have waited on us
all ;' and as Marjory made no response, she
stooped down and kissed her cheek. ' Go and
sleep, my dear ;' and Marjory felt herself gently
dismissed.

She wants Lilies all to herself ; the presence
of a stranger is irksome to her,' she said to
herself rather bitterly, as she went into Mrs.
Chard's room to make her comfortable for the
night ; and when this was done she went downstairs,
still in the same strange dissatisfied
mood.

I wonder what is the matter with me,' she
said to herself, as she laid her head on the
pillow. ' It is because I am so tired, I suppose,
and that shaking was not good for me.' But it
was not her stiffness or fatigue that made the

vol. 11. 23

Lilian MOTHER.

tears run down her cheeks. ' Have I no
mother at all,' she sighed  ' no one living to love
me as Lilies is loved V But even as the
thought passed through her mind, Anne was on
her knees praying for her adopted child, praying
as only such women can pray ; pure unselfish
petitions for the beloved one w T hom they would
fain shield from all the evils of life.

1 WHO AM I ?'

EARLY a week had passed since Mrs.
Carr's arrival at Whitecliffe, when
Marjory w r as sitting late one evening
by the window of her little parlour, looking out
idly into the summer's dusk that seemed creeping
over the grey sea. An open letter lay in
her lap, a merry rambling epistle from Mr.
Frere that had just reached her ; such a letter
as he loved to write to Marjory, and such as she
loved to receive from him. But, for the first
time, it had failed to bring a smile to her lips ;
on the contrary, a deeper cloud gathered on her
brow.

I have not told him or Anne she said to
herself ; ' no wonder Anne found my last note
brief and unsatisfactory, and wonders what I am

232

doing with myself ; not a word has reached
them about the accident, or Lilies's illness. I
have put it off, waiting for a leisure hour, and
that hour never comes.' Marjory might well
excuse herself on the score of want of leisure,
for this was the first idle moment she had had
in all these days.

Mrs. Chard had only rallied very slowly from
her attack, and was still unable to leave her
room, and the whole care and supervision of the
household had come upon Marjory.

Barry would have been lost without her ; the
poor lad must have been thrown sadly on his
own resources, but for her bright companionship.
She talked to him, read to him, and listened
patiently to his half-boyish, half-philosophical
disquisitions ; and the one half-hour that she
allowed herself for exercise was passed beside
his chair. Lilies was recovering gradually from
day to day, and needed little beside her mother's
care. Marjory knew the greatest comfort that
she could vouchsafe both to her and Mrs. Carr,
was to relieve them from all anxiety about
Barry ; and their gratitude amply rewarded her.

Her brief visits to the sick-room were always
hailed joyfully by both mother and daughter.

Lilies would draw her face down to her pillow
and stroke it affectionately.

i Mother says she cannot help loving you for
your own sake as well as mine,' she whispered
one day, when Mrs. Carr had left the room fora
moment. ' She says that you are so good to
Barry, and such a dear girl. She w T ants you
to come to St. Kilda's as much as I do, Marjory;'
for the 'Miss Deane ' had been tacitly
dropped between them.

Marjory blushed at the praise. She was glad
to know that Mrs. Carr regarded her with such
favour. She had almost a morbid craving that
Lilies' s mother should think well of her. Marjory
cared for few people, but she clave to the
few whom her heart elected to love with almost
passionate fidelity ; and from the first moment
Mrs. Carr's fascinations had subjugated her, and
every day her admiration deepened. She was
so affectionate, so unconscious, so utterly merged
in her children, her own rare gifts of mind and
person seemed hidden from her eyes. She
smiled at Lilies's open adoration ; the girl's
lover-like devotion was received with deprecating
gentleness.

You must not believe all Lilies says,' she

would observe almost anxiously to Marjory,
when Lilies would break into one of her little
rhapsodies. ' We all think the face we love
beautiful. I like my children to think there is
no one like their mother. Of course, we must
expect people to laugh at us  not that that
matters much.'

I No, indeed !' returned Marjory vehemently ;
but she sighed as she went out of the room.
1 If I lived with her I should be as silly as
Lilies she thought. ' She has no idea how she
strikes people. It is not exactly her beauty ; it
is her voice and everything about her. I am
determined that Anne and Mr. Frere shall see
her.'

It would have soothed her much if she had
known how warmly Mrs. Carr returned her
admiration. She praised her to her daughter in
no measured terms.

I I know she lives with gentle-people, and has
been well educated she said once ; ' but how
can Miriam's daughter be such a distinguished-looking
creature ? She is handsome  very
handsome, I think, only she has not a happy
expression ; but it is her aristocratic air and refined
voice that surprises me, and her hands and

feet are beautiful. One would not expect to find
that. Robert Deane was such a common
good-looking fellow, a clumsy young blacksmith
 nothing more.'

Her hands are far prettier than mine,' returned
Lilies, with a charming pout  not that
she the least minded that fact.

6 You are perfect in my eyes, darling replied
her mother, kissing her; and, indeed, she would
not have owned there was a single flaw in Lilies.
Mother really thinks me lovely,' observed
Lilies once, with a merry laugh ; and she heartily
enjoyed the little joke.

Marjory was sitting idle in her little parlour,
because all her duties were over for the day, and
she really wanted a quiet half-hour to herself.
She was forming a painful resolution, and one
that would be difficult to carry out, and from
which her whole nature shrank. Nevertheless,
she knew it must be done.

To-morrow Mrs. Chard would be downstairs,
and would doubtless set about her old duties.
There was some talk, too, that Lilies should be
moved into the drawing-room. At any moment
Mr. Frere might take it into his head to come
over to Whitecliffe. Marjory felt that what she

had to do must be clone at once, and that no
false pity, no cowardice on her own part, should
prevent her to-night from patting the long-deferred
question to Mrs. Chard.

1 I have waited a whole week until I thought
she was well enough to bear it, but now I am
determined not to sleep another night until she
has explained those words.'

And Marjory's mouth took its decided curve,
as she rose from her seat and went slowly upstairs.


Mrs. Chard was sitting by the fire in her grey
wrapper. It was a small room, and shabbily
furnished, but in the firelight it looked bright
and cosy. The closed curtains shut, out the
dull view; the little table, with its lamp,
medicine-bottles, and a large Bible, was close
beside her. She had evidently been reading, fora
crimson marker lay on the open page.

She looked up at Marjory almost affectionately.


1 I was wondering what you were doing with
yourself, dearie,' she said. 'I knew Mr. Barry
had gone to bed, and I thought you might be
dull all alone, as you were not in the next
room.'

No ; they do not want me. I have cone to
sit with you a little,' replied Marjory, placing
herself on the opposite side of the fireplace.

You do not think of going to bed yet, I
suppose ?'

i Not just yet, dearie. I have only just taken
my supper. I must not lie down for a good
hour to come.'

The room is very close,' observed Marjory,
feeling feverish at the thought of her self-imposed
task.

Open the door, then. I should like a
little more air myself. The night is warm,
surely.'

Marjory half rose, and then she sat down
again.

1 No, better not,' she returned hurriedly.

Mrs. Carr might hear us. I forgot she and
Lilies were so near. One should not tell
secrets with an open door,' continued the girl
boldly; and she shot a swift look at Mrs. Chard
from under her long lashes.

Mrs. Chard fluttered the leaves of the Bible
nervously.

'I was reading when you came in,' she said,
1 about the prodigal son. I mostly turn to that

when I am a bit low iu my mind. I don't know
what you mean about secrets. I suppose you
have not got any worth mentioning, Marjory ?'

No, Mrs. Chard ; the secret is none of mine
she returned very slowly ; but there was no mistaking
her impressive manner.

Mrs. Chard shrank back into her chair.

1 Why are you calling me by my name ? I
ain't Mrs. Chard to you!' looking at Marjory
with her old frightened expression.

What are you to me ?' asked Marjory, leaning
forward and speaking almost in a whisper.
1 have called you mother, but I will never do
that again as long as I live. I am no child of
yours ; but am I anything to you ? That is
what I want to know. Who is Lilies, and who
am I, and what are you to both of us ? That is
what I mean to find out to-night :' and
then, in a clear, accusing voice, she repeated,
syllable by syllable, as though the words had
been burned into her brain :

" I ain't your mother ; I am her mother.
Let me go  let me go, Marjory, to my own
child !" Your own words, Mrs. Chard  your
very words, as I can witness in a court of
law.'

Mrs. Chard uttered a faint cry, and covered
her face with her hands ; but a moment afterwards
she looked up with a sort of ghastly
eagerness.

1 I was not in my right mind. I had been
asleep, and you startled me. You frightened me
about the blood ; you know you did, Marjory.
You have no call to repeat a few bits of words
that showed I was dazed

Marjory's eyes flashed with sudden passion.

1 You can say that V she said, pointing her
finger with youthful severity at the unhappy
woman before her. ' You can say what you
know to be false with your hand resting on the
Bible  you that might have been dead a few
days ago, and who know what is said to us
there about liars ! Oh V with another scathing
glance, that seemed to wither her victim, ' I
will not talk to you ! I will have no mercy
upon you ! I will write to Mr. Frere to come tome,
and he shall take me to a magistrate, and I
will swear to the words you spoke that day,
and how you have lied to me about your lodgers,
and '

But here Mrs. Chard caught hold of her dress
with a suppressed groan.

1 You are killing me, Marjory ! Don't !
Where's my drops ? Give me them first, and
I will make a clean breast. The drops ! the
drops !  and I must think first V

Marjory, frightened at the livid look on
Mrs. Chard's face, choked back the angry feelings
that threatened to deprive her of all self-mastery,
and measured out the medicine with a
shaking hand.

'It is you who excite yourself,' she said
harshly. ' Why will you not do the right thing ?
There is nothing else that will give you peace.
There, I will wait while you recover yourself, but
you must not try my patience too far;' and so
saying, she walked up and down the narrow room
with the restless movements of a caged animal.
Yes, she was hard  hard, perhaps, on a dying
woman ; but her own suspense, her impatience,
her despair at these feeble subterfuges, were
driving her wild. ' If she would but tell the
truth  tell it for once in her life  I feel I could
forgive her, whatever it is; but not now, for these
last few days I have almost hated her;' but here
Mrs. Chard's weak voice recalled her.

Sit down, Marjory ; why are you pacing up
and down so that they will hear you ? Come a bit

nearer. I won't speak above my breath ; the walls
may have ears, for aught I know. Now, before I
tell the story that maybe I have got to tell you,
you must make me a faithful promise  a promise
that shall be as sacred and binding as this,' touching
the book beside her.

4 What am I to promise, Mrs. Chard ?'

That you will not repeat to a living soul what
I tell you to-night until after my death. That
shall set you free to say what you will.'

Marjory experienced a little shock of dismay
at these words. The idea of hiding anything
from Anne and Mr. Frere was repugnant to her
in the highest degree. ' Oh, I cannot do that,'
she replied quickly.

1 Then not one word will you drag from me
to-night, or any night,' returned Mrs. Chard, ina
tone of dogged obstinacy. ' Oh, you may do
your worst ; you may bring them all about me,
but I warn you there is nothing that can be
proved. All my old neighbours at Chigwell
know I had an attack of the brain after you were
lost ; and if I am a bit wrong in my head, and
excited at times, no one will wonder at it.'

Marjory sat absolutely dumb. The cunning
of this speech baffled her completely. She could

have wrung her hands in despair at her futile
attempts to track this woman's secret. Mrs.
Chard saw her advantage, and followed it up.

It is not much to promise, Marjory ; you
need not he so scared about it. My days are
numbered, and I do not believe I have many
months to live. Ask Mr. Gilbert, if you doubt
my word ; you are always doubting me, but
to-night I am telling you Gospel truth. It was
only yesterday that I brought him to book myself,
and he as good as owned that I might go off in
one of these attacks

I believe you are telling the truth in this
matter,' returned Marjory slowly, for she had
herself spoken to Mr. Gilbert, and he had
admitted bluntly that he did not believe that
Mrs. Chard would last a twelvemonth. ' There
is more the matter with her than people suppose,'
he had said frankly. ' It is not only the heart,
but some of the other organs are diseased. She
has not been a strong woman, and she has had a
great deal of trouble. Try and get her to un-burthen
herself, for I have long thought there is
something on her mind.' And Marjory had
promised that she would do her best.

I ain't likely to tell lies on that subject

replied Mrs. Chard bitterly; ' and if you would bea

bit kinder to nie, and just give me your promise

to leave things as they are until I am gone, J

will not deny that it will be a sort of relief to

tell it to some one. I have had a miserable life,

Marjory, and I don't care how soon I part with

it. I am like that poor prodigal  I have been

feeding on husks until I am pretty near starved.'

You are tempting me to do wrong ; I know

it  I feel it returned Marjory excitedly. * But

the temptation is too hard for me ; I cannot

endure this suspense.' She clasped her hands,

and the words ' Deliver us from evil ' passed

through her mind, but she closed her heart to

the thought. ' Yes, I will promise  there is my

hand on it. I am true ; I never told anyone a

lie in my life.'

Oh, I can trust you, Marjory, though you
are none of mine. I will always say you are as
true as steel, and would go through a martyrdom
rather than break your word. Well, you have
promised, and you shall hear what you are longing
to know  that you are only my foster-child,
and not my daughter ; it is Lilies who is my
real child.'

Lilies ! really Lilies ? Good heavens, if she

only knew that !' then, knitting her brows perplexedly,
' But who am I ? What is my name ?
Is my mother dead ?' for, strange to say, no
suspicion of the actual truth had penetrated her
brain.

 Your mother is in there pointing to the
wall. * Your name is Lilies Marjory Carr, and
Mr. Barry is your own brother.' But here she
stopped, for this time it was Marjory who gave
vent to a sound like a hoarse, hysteric scream,
only her face was happily muffled in her hands.
In another moment she had sprung to the window,
and, throwing it open, leant out into the night.
Faint starlight overhead, and the slow washing
of the sea in her ears ; her brain seemed reeling ;
a cold moisture bedewed her forehead.

" Your mother is in there." Mrs. Carr  that
beautiful woman  so gentle, so beloved  her
mother !' It was well that the words evoked their
own pathos ; well that a sudden relief of tears
eased the over-charged brain. Mrs. Chard shivered
and grew pale as the night-draught and the sound
of Marjory's sobs reached her ; but to Marjory
those floods of tears brought their own healing.

Mrs. Chard watched her anxiously.

You are better now, Marjory, aren't you ?'

she asked almost piteously, as her little lamp
flared in the draught.

Marjory did not answer, but she presently
closed the window and sat down. There was
not a vestige of colour in her face, and her eyes
were full of tears.

1 Go on ; I can listen now she said, covering
her eyes with her hand. ' I must hear, and
understand, or how am I to believe ? Tell me
about it from the beginning. '

There is no call to go over it all again,'
returned Mrs. Chard hurriedly. ' Mr. Frere
knows how mother and I lived up at the Grange
at St. Kilda's  the place they call Mavisbank
now ; and how my young mistress, Miss Weston,
married before I took up with Eobert Deane ;
and how things went wrong with the handsome
young gentleman, her husband, and she was
forced to go to Peru with him, and leave her
baby with me.'

One moment,' exclaimed Marjory, rousing
up at this ; ' there is some discrepancy here.
When you lived at the cottage at Chigwell,
there were two children  one of them your

own ' she paused, and Mrs. Chard nodded ;

but the other  oh, I remember; you told

VOL. II. 24

Mr. Frere and Anne some story about the
mother being in a lunatic asylum.'

One sin leads to another responded B
Chard, in a conscience-stricken voice. ' As a
girl, I always spoke the truth ; but no sooner
was the first wrong step taken than I found
myself in a muddle, and nothing but falsehoods
would help me out. I remember now that I
did make up a sort of story about Captain
Cooper and his mad wife ; but there was Mr.
Frere ferreting things out with his sharp questions,
and I got in a panic and said what came
into my head. I did not want to set him on
the Carrs' track, for I knew they might becoming
back to England and bringing Lilies
with them, and there might be some awkward
inquiries. I was not wholly true, and I was not
wholly false ; I just jumbled things a little, that
was all.'

You say Mrs. Carr pronouncing the name
with trembling lips, ' left her baby with you.
I was that baby, I suppose ?'

Mrs. Chard nodded again.

Yes, I was nursing you then, for my poor
young mistress had been very ill with fretting
about her husband's losses, and fearing he might

go away and leave her, and she was so much in
love with him that she was breaking her heart
about it.'

4 Wait a moment!' panted Marjory, and the
blood surged into her face suddenly and vividly.
Tell me what my father was like. I have
never heard of him  not a word  not a word!'

1 Well, he was not unlike Robert. If Robert
had been dressed up in gentleman's clothes, and
had trimmed himself a little, they might have
passed for brothers ; only Robert was florid, and
Philip Carr was pale. He was a fine handsome
man, only a little too delicate for my fancy ;
and he had very fair hair and moustache, and
his nose was a little long. Robert's was, too.
Their eyes were both hazel-brown. I remember
Miss Lilies  she was Miss Lilies then  talking
about her lover to me. She was even then
crazy about him, though nothing to what she
was afterwards. " He is so uncommon-looking,
Miriam," she said to me one day. " One
generally sees blue or grey eyes with such
fair hair ; the combination of dark eyes is more
rarely seen." And after she was married, and
there was expectation of your coming into the
world, she said that she was sure that it would

242

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

be a girl, and that she hoped it would be like
Philip, and not like her ; and yet she was the most
beautiful young lady that one could set eyes on.'

She is beautiful still,' murmured Marjory.

Yes ; but you have got a look of her. Perhaps
Mr. Barry is the most like ; but you have her
low forehead, and the hair and eyes are the
same colouring, though your skin is darker ; and
there is a trick of expression now and then, and
a tone in your voice that turns me cold with

%j

fear. But what was I saying ? I have lost
the thread of my story.'

That you were nursing me, because
mother was ill.'

Ah, true. It is a little difficult for me to
tell things off straight  indeed she was ill.
You were scarcely with her at all ; and when
the doctors said the voyage would do her good,
and that she would fret herself to death if Mr.
Philip left her behind, it was arranged that you
were to be given into my charge ; and mother, who
was alive then, was to come with me to Chigwell
and mind Marjory, Marjory Lilies I had called
her, out of love for my dear young mistress. And
as nothing better could be arranged  for you would
have pined without me, being a delicate baby 

the poor thing was forced to go her way over
the seas without you. They had hoped to be
back in a few months, but they were away nigh
upon three years

'And all that time Lilies and I were together ?'
Yes  you and Sissie. We called her Sissie
because that was your name for her ; but she
always called herself Lila, or Lila. Well, in
spite of mother's death and Robert's leaving me,
I was not half as unhappy as I ought to have
been, though I had bad times, of course ; but I
was that fond of you, Marjory, that no one, not
knowing us, could have guessed which was my
own child. You were a bit passionate and
masterful even then ; but I was as proud of you
as proud could be, because you had grown so
strong and bonnie-looking, and loved your
mammie, as you called me, and was so good
to Sissie. I used to stand and watch you both at
nights, with your little arms round each other so
loving. You were always for giving up things
for Sissie, sharing your toys with her. I never
knew you snatch a thing from her  never. * ' Give
Sissie the biggest lot, mammie," was always
your cry.

Well, it was all as peaceful as possible until

that dreadful day when the pedlar-woman came
to the door, and soon after we found you were
missing. I had had a letter that very morning
from my young mistress, saying they were on
their way home to fetch their little Marjory 
she and Philip Carr and their baby-boy. " He
is such a fine strong fellow," she wrote  " my
very image, they say ; but to my thinking, he
is far too beautiful. You are a tiresome creature,
Miriam, never to tell me what my darling
Marjory is like. Just ' bonnie-looking ' is no description
to a mother."

Well, I had that letter in my pocket ; and
when they told me you were as good as stolen,
and I raced up and down the village like a madwoman,
it came over me that I would rather
have lost Lilies, dearly as I loved her. The
thought that my sweet young mistress had
trusted her child into my keeping, and that I
could give no account of her, drove me nearly

wild Wait an instant, dearie ; for if you will

believe me, the thought of that miserable day
overpowers me even now

And Mrs. Chard leant back in her chair and
fanned herself feebly, as though her strength
were gone.

1 YES, HAZEL JUST LIKE PHILIP'S.'

Armory was in no hurry for Mrs.
Chard to resume the thread of her
narrative. As far as her dazed condition
would allow, she was endeavouring to
compare Mrs. Chard's story with her own childish
recollections and the few facts she had gleaned
from Mr. Frere. She was quite sure in her own
mind that the woman was speaking the truth,
but that her own falsities confused her. Probably,
as Marjory thought for the first time, her
brain might have been slightly jarred by the
shock of her misfortunes, and the state of fear
in which she had passed her life. Marjory was
beginning to understand with a sort of dim
terror the infinite woe that might be worked by
the mere unravelling of this weak plot. No,

she must not think of that to-night. She had

only to listen and try to comprehend. Life
would be quite long enough to solve other problems.


I am keeping 3 7 ou waiting, dearie observed
Mrs. Chard, after a while. * The night is wearing
on, and I want to finish this miserable
story. It will not do to think about that day
or the next. It was winter weather, close upon
Christmas, and the air was thick with fallen
snow ; but there seemed a fever upon me as I
tramped up and down the country-roads, stopping
at cottages and asking people if they had seen
the child, till they grew to dread the sight of me.
And all the time my heart felt like a stone in my
breast, for I knew the beggar-wife had carried
you off ; and when my young mistress asked me
for her child, I felt that I should just fall at her
feet like a dead thing. I was almost crazed with
the horror of it all, and thinking of my bonnie
Marjory having fallen into evil hands. Nothing
but a merciful Providence kept me from self-destruction,
when, on the third evening, I limped
back to my cottage in the winter's darkness,
with all hope gone, and nothing but a deadly
terror creeping over me. That day I had eaten

nothing. The sight of food seemed to turn me
sick, but nothing would allay the fever of my
thirst.

 I had left Sissie  Lilies, I mean  under
a neighbour's care ; and when a bright light
from the uncurtained lattice streamed down the
garden-path, I only said to myself that Betty
Morgan knew how to make free with other
people's coals, and that she must have built up
a rare fire.

The lattice was ajar, strange to say ; and I
was just stepping over the frozen flower-bed to
close it, thinking it was Betty's carelessness, and
that Sissie would catch cold, when all at once
my heart seemed to stop, and for a moment
there was no life in me at all. For, instead of
Betty's rough figure, there was a lady, in a dress
trimmed with fur, sitting by the fire, and Sissie
was on her lap, with her little arms round her
neck, just " loving her," as she would call it in
her baby way.

1 I could not see the lady's face, but I knew
that it was my young mistress ; and as I stood
there, holding on for support to the sill of the
window, only one desperate thought came into
my mind  to go away somewhere where I should

never see that mother's accusing face when she
heard her child's miserable fate.

I was turning to go, for I was clean daft
with the fear and the anguish, when I heard my
young mistress talking to my child in a way I
could not understand.

Sissie was squeezing her face, and laughing
at her in her pretty way. "More mammies 
lots of mammies for Lila," she said.

"Do they call you Lilies, my darling ?" returned
my young mistress. " ;Vnd I told
Miriam that I always meant to call you Marjory."


" Margy's done!" returned Sissie, with a
solemn shake of her head.

< " What, Miriam's Marjory ? Oh, I hope I
hope," in a very low voice, " that she has not
lost her child ! So they call you Lila, my pretty
one, do they ? Let me see your sweet eyes
again. Yes, hazel  just like Philip's, only not
so dark ; and the dear fair hair is like his, too.
You are Philip's little girl, aren't you, my
darling ? You are not like your mother, or your
baby-brother one bit; but  oh, you precious little
soul, I never thought you would be fair ! Old
nurse vowed that you would be a regular nutbrown

maid ; and that vexed me, for I did so
long for my first-born to be like Philip."

1 Marjory, as I stood there like an outcast,
homeless thing, with my head against the wall,
I shook and shivered as though I had the ague
to hear her going on, and yet my brain seemed
on fire. My young mistress had my child on
her lap, and was talking to it, believing it to be
her own !

Then it was that the devil took possession
of me, tempting me in my hour of weakness. I
was myself, and yet not myself, for I could not
argue things properly. Ah, you need not shrink
from me ; for it was not all wickedness, as you
think. I loved my young mistress dearly 
dearly, for we had been children together. She
would be happier so, believing that she had her
child ; and I could not bear to see her bright
face overcast. One was enough to be miserable.
She need never know. My child should be my
sacrifice. After all, it was only a fair exchange.
I had lost her child, and I would give mine
instead. She should have my fair-haired,
prattling little Lilies, who was so like Robert,
and yet so like Philip Carr ; and would you
believe me, Marjory, the thought of expiating

my own carelessness by this sacrifice
gave me an instant's peace. It was not until it
was done, and could not be undone, that the 1
of my darling, my own flesh and blood, who
was never to be mine again, drove me for a while
crazy.

1 1 could not argue things, as I said ; it only
passed through my brain like lightning  to
leave the deluded mother in her belief, and tolet
things take their chance. And as I made up
my mind to this, a sort of desperate courage
emboldened me to face them.

'The fire-glow had burnt down a little, and my
young mistress could not see my face clearly ;
but hers was radiant and beautiful, though there
were bright drops shining on her eyelashes.
Miriam," she said, holding out her hands tome,
for the child was still on her lap, playing
with some trinkets  " Miriam, my dear woman,
let me thank you for your goodness to my baby."
And before I could draw back, she had kissed
me, not once, but twice, in the very fulness of
her gratitude.

1 " Yes, let me do it," she said, misunderstanding
my shudder. " For three years you
have been a mother to my darling, and watched

over her, and loved her. Oh, how I envy you
those years ! But I will not part with her
again, ray golden-haired treasure ! Oh, Miriam !"
with a happy little laugh ; " how you and nurse
used to prophesy that she would be ray image !
and you were wrong  both of you. See, she
has her father's long nose ; not a pretty one,
perhaps, but it will remind me of his. Her
eyes are lighter than I remember baby's to
have been. But what lovely hair  just Philip's
colour ! Oh, he will be so proud of his little
girl ! You were right to call her Lilies ; Marjory
would not have suited her so well. Your own
little girl is Marjory, is she not ?" But here
she caught sight of my face, and drew back with
a little shock of dismay. " What is it, Miriam ?
l r ou look ill and sorrowful. Is there anything
wrong with the child ?"

" She is lost ! I have lost Marjory," I cried,
throwing my apron over my head and bursting
into sobs that seemed to tear me to pieces, and
yet give me no relief. " Oh, what shall I do without
my child ?" For the sight of Lilies, sitting
there unconscious and happy in her lap, playing
with her diamond rings, and with her golden
curls shining in the firelight, overcame me for a

moment. My young mistress wept when she saw
my distress. She put down the child softly on the
rug, and came to me, and implored me to tell
her what I meant. She drew the story of
Marjory's disappearance from me bit by bit, and
tried to comfort me with the hope of soon finding
her. I told her she had Sissie's beads, for I
feared she might ask after them. " Marjory
was crying for them that very morning, and I
gave them her to play with," I said, concocting
my first clumsy falsehood. " They must have
attracted the beggar wife. And she had some of
Sissie's old clothes on, too." '

Well, she talked to me, and cried over me,
for my mistress had always a feeling heart ; and
Sissie cried too, out of pure sympathy, and
clambered up in my lap and cuddled us both by
turns. And I remember kissing her passionately,
and imploring Mrs. Carr to allow me to keep
her for a few days longer ; and how the dear
creature promised to do so. Only she must bring
her Philip the next day to see her, she said, and
so on ; but I hardly heard her, f< >r a sudden
thought was turning me sick. The mark on
your arm  that, of course, her mother would
remember. I was turning this over in my

mind, in a confused sort of way, all the time she
remained with me. But I knew what sailors did,
for I had a cousin who was one ; and, before
another night had passed, I had managed to
tattoo a faint and clumsy L in the same place in
which yours was, just above the vaccination mark.
It was so badly done, that no one could have
mistaken it for the real mark, if the two arms
had been compared ; but I thought it would
pass with my young mistress

1 A week later, I saw my own child carried
away; and then the emptiness, and the loneliness,
and the horror of the acted lie  the first 
the first in my life, Marjory, though it has
brought nought but falsehood in its train  were
too much for me, and I had a bad attack of
brain fever.

Betty Morgan, who nursed me, said afterwards,
I talked of nothing but the children. It
was Marjory and Lilies  Lilies and Marjory 
day and night, calling first to one and then to
another, to come and kiss me.

1 And then, when I got better, a cousin
fetched me away, and I went down to Whitechapel,
until Ephraim Chard found me out and
persuaded me to marry him  which I did, just

because I was too weary of life to care what
became of me, and lie had a soft tongue with
which to beguile a woman. And, alas ! I yielded,
and from that day I had no peace, or even dared
to say my soul was my own, or to cross a will
that was too strong for me.

But all the time I lived with my cousins at
Whitechapel, and after I married Ephraim, I
never let go the hope of finding you.

1 Lilies had gone to Peru with the Carrs ; but
though I had made over my own child as a
peace-offering, still my conscience would not let
me rest. Their real child Marjory was still
missing, and I felt as though I were responsible
for her. I had a sort of wild fancy in my head,
that if I could only find you, the wrong might
still be undone at some future time ; and, as I
said before, though you may not believe me, I
was that fond of you, that I was anxious to find
you again for my own sake.

Well, you remember that morning in Kensington
Gardens, and how I claimed you for my
own child. It seemed to me that nothing else
would suit my purposes. I durst not tell
Ephraim the truth, for I had learned to fear
him as only a weak creature like myself can

fear, and yet I durst not lose sight of you
entirely.

1 For four years, I bad gone to bed every
night quaking to think into what hands you
might have fallen ; and such a weight seemed
lifted off me when I saw the people who had
adopted you, and knew that they were real
gentlefolk, and would bring you up like their
own, and that you would miss nothing.

You need not look at me like that, Marjory,
as though I had deprived you of a mother, for
Miss Anne loved you like one, I am sure ; and
I had gone too far on a crooked road to take a
straight turning. It was always my meaning
to put things right some day, though that day
might not come until after my death : not to
lose sight of you, for I still felt responsible ; I
claimed you as my own, and made a bargain
with the Frees that you should pay me a yearly
visit. I was for ever hoping that some day the
opportunity would come for me to place things
on a right footing ; but when years passed, and
Mrs. Carr returned to England, a broken-hearted
widow, bringing Lilies  my Lilies  with her, and
that poor boy Mr. Barry, I had not the heart or
the courage to speak, for she and Lilies doted

vol. 11. 25

on each other, and it would almost have killed
the poor lady to have spoken then.

Oh, Marjory, it is true I have injured yon,
my poor dearie ; and you were right to take a
grudge against me, as you did from the time you
were a mere child, for you were that sort that
you could not abide what was not true ; but
you would not have been so hard on me if you
had known the martyrdom that was to be mine,
from the day the Carrs returned to England upto
the present hour. To see my child treating
me with the good-natured tolerance due to her
mother's old servant ; to hear my own daughter
and Robert's address me as Miriam or Mrs.
Chard ; to see her lavish caresses on another
woman, and pass me by with a light word of
command ; to love her more and more as her
sweetness grew familiar to me, and yet to pretend
to feel no uncommon interest in her! Oh,
no wonder that there were moments when I could
not bear the sight of you, Marjory ; when I spoke
crossly to you; when I could not endure to see yon
near her  I was that mad with fear and jealousy.'

It is not difficult to understand that,' observed
Marjory, with a stilled sigh ; but Mrs.
Chard was too much absorbed in her painful

reminiscences to heed her. After all these years
of hitter concealment, her tongue was loosened,
and she could speak to a human being of the
trouble that lay so heavy on her soul. The
relief was too great for her to check her outpourings
; and as she spoke of Lilies, a brightness
came into the poor faded eyes, that had
known little else but tears all these years.

1 It is a pleasure, and yet a torment, to me,'
she went on, ' to have my own dear under my
roof, even if I cannot see much of her. Often
and often I have crept up of an evening, when
she and Mrs. Carr have been talking, just to
stand outside in the darkness and hear her sweet
voice laughing, or maybe singing ; and more
than once I have slipped inside her room when
she has been asleep, just to make believe I was
bidding her good-night, and to hear the soft,
regular breathing. Once she stirred a bit restlessly
in her sleep, and I heard her say, " Is
that you, mother dear?" Eh, Marjory, I just
crawled out into the passage, and sat there rocking
myself and crying like a baby; for was I not
her mother? though she might never know it,
poor lamb, until, maybe, she may call me so in
heaven.

95 2

1 was put out not a little, Marjory, at her
coming with Mr. Barry so unexpectedly, just
when I was awaiting your visit. I got into a
panic, and lost my wits ; and then I said to
myself, What harm could it do to have you both
together for a week? I could keep you apart,
and Lilies need not know you called yourself
my daughter. But when Mr. Frere accompanied
you I gave myself up for lost. I knew he suspected
me in some way, and I was always at my
worst before him. "Well, well, there is nothing
more to tell ; it was the shock of Lilies's accident
that threw me off my guard, for I thought
it was my dead child that they were bringing
into the house, and what mother could stand
such a sight as that ? There, I have finished
with a long, quivering sigh. ' Tell me, dearie,
do you hate your old nurse for all the mischief
she has done ?'

'No,' returned Marjory slowly, and rousing
herself with difficulty, ' I do not hate you. You
have done wrong, but it seems to me that you
are dying of your punishment. I am sorry for
you  yes, I am even sorry for you, though you
have made me do wrong, too, in giving that
promise

But you will keep it, Marjory ? We clasped
hands over the Book, and it is binding as an oath.
I could not live and know that Lilies should be
taught to despise her mother. When I am dead
and gone, the knowledge will not reach me  not
up there, "where the weary are at rest," Marjory ;
for even such a sinner may be forgiven, though
it goes hard to believe it.

Let me pass my last few months in peace,'
she continued still more earnestly ; ' it is all I
ask of you. After I am gone you will find it all
written out word for word as I have told it you.
You will find it in the right-hand top drawer of
my old secretary, but the key is on a watch-guard
round my neck. When I am dead, you may take
it off me. You are a good girl not to hate me,
Marjory. I would undo it all if I could, but I
have not the strength or the courage for it now.
Go to bed, dearie  for I dare not talk any more
and say a prayer for me if you will.'

Marjory rose at once. ' If you care to hear
me say that I forgive you, I will say that word,'
she returned, speaking in set, dry tones. ' I
believe that you do repent of all these falsehoods ;
but I think  I think,' very solemnly, 'that it will
be better that we do not meet again  that, when

I once leave you, it vill be ou the full understanding
that you do not expect rue to sleep
under your roof again.'

'I am not asking it in a dejected tone; 'but
you will come to me when I am dying, Marjory ?'

1 Yes, if you send for me I will come. I will
try not to think more hardly of you than I can,
though you have caused such bitter confusion in
my life. Perhaps I shall be able to make more
excuse for you when I have thought it all out :
anyway, I wish you to rest sure of my forgiveness.'


1 Thank you, dearie ; then, good-night !'

Good-night !' returned Marjory, in the same
forced voice ; but she took no notice of the hand
that Mrs. Chard held out to her.

'I cannot take it  I cannot  I cannot!*
muttered Marjory through her teeth, as she
crept cautiously past the closed door of the
sleeper, and took refuge in her own room.

The town clock was striking one as she drew
a chair to the bedside and laid her head against
the pillow. She was utterly weary, faint and
exhausted in body; but the strained tension of
her brain, the crowd of conflicting thoughts that

passed through her mind, made sleep impossible.
She would sit there until morning should bring
greater calmness ; and then, perhaps, she might
stretch herself on the bed, and court an hour's
forgetfulness. She had lighted no candle ; yet,
after a little, the room was not dark to her. An
eerie light made objects perceptible to her, even
the grim blackness of the wall before her window.
The house seemed full of ghostly presences, of
dead silences, of faint groping, and shadowy outlines
; and yet no sense of fear crossed her mind.
She must think it all out from the beginning, so
she told herself. She had hours in which to doit;
and yet when the grey dawn began to light
up the horizon, Marjory still sat there, with
strained, wide-open eyes, and the pulses beating
like hammers in her temples.

Now and then, as the hours passed, broken
exclamations rose to her lips, showing the drift of
her thoughts as they surged unbidden into speech.

'Who am I?  not Marjory Deane at all. I
am Lilies  Lilies, and my mother is sleeping
upstairs !'

A smile of exquisite tenderness curved her
lips at this.

1 1 have been looking for her all my life, and

now I have found her. Oh, that is what I
wanted  a mother that I could love ! And
Barry, too, my brother ! Oh, how rich I am !
Happy girl, to have found a mother and brother
in one night !'

The brief ecstasy vanished, and reality, in its
coldest aspect, jarred on her sensitive nerves.

It will break Lilies's heart. My happiness
will be the ruin of hers. I must destroy hers to
build up my own, and  and '  here the keenest
anguish smote her  ' my mother will not want
me. It is too late. Nature will do nothing
for me. After all these years I could not supersede
Lilies !'

Then again :

She was Sissie  poor little Sissie  my own
foster-sister ! We slept in the same cradle. It
is I who am to w T reck her happiness. Oh,
merciful heavens ! what am I to do ? what can
I do ? And yet, right must be done and the
truth spoken. Oh, if I could only ask someone
!  if Mr. Frere and Anne could help me !'
And then she wrung her hands and cried out in
her helplessness. And so she passed the night,
until the first sunbeam shone in at the window ;
and then, utterly spent, she threw herself,

dressed as she was, on the bed, and fell into a
heavy sleep of exhaustion.

It was nearly noon when the cool fragrance of
a bunch of violets touching her cheek woke her,
and she started up to find Lilies standing beside
her bed, looking at her anxiously.

1 What does this mean ?' she asked, sitting on
the bed and leaning over the pillow to kiss her.
You are dressed ; 3'ou have not been to bed ;
and you have dark circles round your eyes, as
though you were ill.'

I was up late with Mrs. Chard, and  and I
was too tired to undress,' faltered Marjory.
1 But you  you ought not to be here ; you are
so pale. You should not have taken the trouble
to come to me.'

They said you had overslept yourself, and I
wanted to surprise you. Mother does not know.
I slipped downstairs the moment she left the
room. I was on the couch, talking to Barry,
and feeling so strong and well ; so I thought it
would be such fun to wake you myself. Mr.
Gilbert says I may go out for an hour tomorrow,
so I do not mean to be treated any longer as an
invalid

'You must take more care of yourself,' returned

Marjory faintly. ' You are looking far
too delicate, now you are up

Lilies, Lilies !' echoed from above, and at
the sound of that voice Marjory trembled allover.


1 There, go  go !' she said, almost pushing
Lilies from her. ' That is her voice. She wants
you

But there is no need to send me away in
such a hurry,' pouted Lilies. l If I waited a
moment and pretended not to hear, she would
come and fetch me. No, I am not going to
leave you. You do look so ill, and mother will
think of something to do you good. She always
does, you know.'

And, to Marjory's utter despair, she maintained
her position, and a moment afterwards Mrs. Can-entered
the room.

Marjory closed her eyes, for all the blood in
her body seemed to surge to her head suddenly.
At least, she could plead with truth to an intense
headache, for the throbbing of her temples
amounted to agony.

Oh, Lilies, Lilies, this is very imprudent !'
began Mrs. Carr reproachfully ; but Lilies, as
usual, silenced her with a kiss.

1 I was so dreadfully in need of exercise,' she
pleaded, * and I did so want to wake Marjory.
Does she not look ill, mother ? She was up
late with Mrs. Chard, and then she was too tired
to undress

Yes ; but you must undress now, and go to
bed like a good child returned Mrs. Carr, laying
her cool hand on the girl's burning forehead.
1 Lilies, you chatterton, you must not talk anymore.
I can see what is the matter. Your
father had these headaches, and nothing but
quiet would do him any good. My dear,' as
Marjory shivered under her touch, ' I will stay
and help you, if you will allow me, while Lilies
goes back to her couch. Xo, you must not
refuse,' as Marjory's lips quivered with the effort
to speak. ' I am so used to nursing, and there
is nothing I like so well as helping people.'

You will be all right if mother helps you,'
echoed Lilies brightly, as she left the room.

Poor Marjory ! The sudden crisis, the intense
physical and mental pain that she was
enduring, seemed to paralyze her. She wanted
to refuse Mrs. Carr's help, to implore to be left
alone ; but all power of speech seemed taken
from her.

Mrs. Oarr took things into her own motherly
hands. The girl looked very ill, she thought,
but she knew exactly how to treat her. When
Marjory refused to undress wholly, and would
only lay aside her gown and put on her dressing-gown,
she had little idea of what was passing
through the girl's mind, and only treated it
smilingly as a youthful whim.

You shall do as you like, dear,' she said
pleasantly. ' I never tease my patients, but I
think you would have been more comfortable if
you had really gone to bed.'

But Marjory only shuddered in answer. She
remembered the tell-tale mark upon her arm,
and the clumsy imitation on Lilies's ; and, with
that promise scorching her soul like a lie, she
dared not run any risk of discovery.

It was well, perhaps, for Marjory that her
physical suffering dulled and numbed her mental
pain. She lay in a sort of dream  conscious,
yet without feeling, except the acute throbbing
in her head  waited on by the mother who did
not know her.

How comforting was the semi-darkness that
had relieved the morning glare ! how refreshing
the cool air that stole through the open windows !

A pleasant warmth diffused itself through her
cold limbs ; gentle hands changed the fragrant
wet cloths on her head, and unloosened the
plaits of heavy hair. Those hands, so firm, so
cool, so beautiful, seemed to mesmerize Marjory.


She had not opened her eyes, for she dared
not look in her mother's face ; but once she
whispered through her white lips something
about Lilies  begging her to go to her.

Yes, I shall go to Lilies presently. You
need not trouble about me, you poor child ! I
shall come in and out, and look after you through
the day ; but it is only quiet and sleep you want.
You young things can never afford to lose your
natural rest, and you have been wearing yourself
out for all of us. Oh, I know these headaches !
Lilies's father used to have them. They would
last from morning until evening, and I was the
only one he would allow near him. Are you
cold ?' as Marjory gave a long shiver at her
words.

These headaches, at which Anne had often
marvelled, were a heritage that came from her
dead father.

So the day passed on. Marjory slept a little y

and sometimes, when she woke, her thoughts
seemed to wander and lose themselves. Once
Mrs. Chard came and looked at her, but Marjory
turned her face away and pretended to be
sleeping ; and she never willingly unclosed her
eyes while Mrs. Carr was in the room.

As the evening closed in, and she found
herself alone, she dragged herself off the bed to
prepare for the night. As she passed the glass,
such a white-lipped heavy-eyed creature met her
view, that she hardly recognised herself.

1 You have dispensed with my help observed
Mrs. Carr, smiling, as she entered shortly afterwards,
and smoothed the disordered bed. ' Now
you will sleep like a baby to-night, and wake
up a different girl tomorrow. AVhat are you
doing, my dear ?' as Marjory intercepted the
busy hand, and touched it, oil so humbly and
gratefully, with her lips.

Let me do it !' exclaimed Marjory wildly.
4 1 want to thank you, and I cannot.' And then,
moved to some sudden passionate impulse, she
threw her arms round Mrs. Cart's neck.  Try
to love me a little, for I love you so very,
very much.'

1 Hush, my dear ! Of course Lilies and I will

love you,' she returned kindly. This little outburst
surprised and touched her. She thou gl it
the girl was hysterical, and soothed and kissed
her, as she would have soothed Lilies.

But after she had left her, Marjory hid her face
in the pillow, and burst into passionate sobs.
1 Oh, it is too hard  to be near her, and yet for
her not to know, me ! How shall I bear it 
to keep silence and not to tell ? But I must be
near you, mother, whatever the pain costs me.
I cannot see you go away with Lilies and leave
me behind.'

1 PLEASE BE Serious A MOMENT.'

INNER was just over at Muriel's End,
and Mr. Frere had placed his sister's
favourite chair by the window, that
she might look out on the beds of yellow and
violet pansies that lay like motionless butterflies
under the sweet spring light. It was nearly the
end of April, but the fire still burnt cheerily ; and
Fluff lay like a grey muff, dropped down accidentally
on the white rug.

A shade was on Anne's gentle face as she sat
with her knitting beside her, but with her little
hands lying idle on her lap, while she looked at the
pink sunset clouds and the limes rippling softly
in the breeze, churned her head to watch her
brother's desultory movements about the room.

Mr. Frere was one of those men who always
look to best advantage in evening dress. As a

general rule, he was somewhat careless in his
attire  preferring an old coat to a new one,
holding the philosophy of clothes a little loosely,
and yet stamping everything he wore with a
certain fashion of his own ; but in the sober
black and white of the Englishman's evening
costume he looked in perfect harmony. ' Quite
aristocratic,' Mrs. Curwin would say, ' with
that silvery grey hair and clever face,' an opinion
in which Anne secretly coincided.

This hour was considered by them both as
the most sociable hour of the day, as Mr. Frere
was given to inform his womenfolk rather frequently.
' Without being a gastronomist, or
being in any way addicted to epicurism,' he
would say, ' I always feel, when I have dined,
in that pleasant mellow condition that leads to
loquacity ; a glass of good claret, with the knowledge
that an excellent cigar is to follow, makes
a man feel in good-humour with himself and his
surroundings. His moral frame expands into
benevolence ; his intellect widens ; witty speeches
drop as easily from his lips as roses and
diamonds from the girl in the fairy-story.'

What a pity that women do not always
drink claret too !' Anne would answer, in a

vol. ii. 26

quizzical tone. But she, too, loved this hour,
when Capel would walk up and down the room,
talking of all things in heaven and earth. The
claret might be excellent  everything was
good of its kind at Muriel's End, nothing
hut the best suiting Mr. Frere's fastidiousness 
but she knew how little he thought of such
things. His simple genial nature was always
ready to expand, and he would talk as freely to
her as though she were one of his choice spirits
at the club.

To-night, his conversation had been more than
usually diffuse. As he had carved the fish, he had
harangued Anne on the folly and extravagance
of colonial wars, and the pitifulness of the
economy that could waste good English blood in
combats with savages.

1 Ours is a greedy Government,' he observe d.
"We sit in our island like a spider in its web, and
we run out lines to all quarters of the globe",
trying to bring one native power after another
into our meshes.'

From this subject he passed lightly to the
rising power of trade. ' Trade is a mighty
power at the present day. Fashion and rank
are legitimizing it. We are studying the romance

of business. Mark my words, Anne  a good
day is corning for the middle classes of England.
Work will be declared honourable. Younger
sons of needy noblemen will recruit their exhausted
fortunes in city offices, and impoverished
gentlewomen will turn dressmakers and milliners,
and work up the philosophy of clothes into a
fine art, only secondary to painting and sculpture.
Idleness and helplessness will be declared vulgar.
You know the derivation of the word lady ?'
And as Anne shook her head. * Hldf-weardige,
bread-keeper; from hldf, loaf, and wearing, to
look after. The same meaning attaches to the
title lord.'

Bread-keepers need not be bread-winners,
Capel.'

My good Anne, half a loaf is better than no
bread ; but if the half-loaf fail, surely the hldf-
weardige's duty is to provide the loaf. Eve had
to turn dairy-maid probably from the time she
was ejected from Eden, and her feminine descendants
will find that honest work will not soil the
fairest hand.'

This was a subject on which Anne could talk;
her ideas were a little hazy on colonial wars.
But when Mr. Frere had aired his ideas on this

262

topic, he strayed off to Darwinism, arid from
thence to ants, and finally landed himself and
Anne on the subject of phrenology and the
arguments in favour of Comte's philosophy, in
the midst of which Anne retired silently to
her chair and looked out absently at the lime-trees.


'Capel,' she said suddenly, arresting this flow
of argumentative eloquence, ' I wish you would
leave Comte alone for to-night. Yesterday it was
Oliver Cromwell, and the evening before we were
deep in Bos well's Johnson and Mrs. Thales
To-night I want the conversation in
my own hands ; there is that letter of Marjory's
to discuss

He was standing with his back to her,
fingering the books on the table, or she would
have seen the swift indefinable change that
passed over his face at the mention of Marjory's
name. But a minute afterwards he came up to
her, with his usual good-humoured look.

4 Ah, the letter you read to me at luncheon!
Well, it seems to me, Marjory has a right to
amuse herself. There is nothing to discuss
there.'

Sit down a minute she returned patiently.

I have wanted to talk to you all day, Capel,
but you have put me off so. This letter of
Marjory's troubles me

Why, it is a good letter,' he said lightly,
taking it out of her hand. ' The child has
crossed her t's and dotted her i's, and her
punctuation is as correct as most females'. I do
not think the feminine intellect ever will completely
master the difficult art of punctuation ;
it is too fond of notes of admiration and interrogation,
and too loath to use the full stop.'

Anne shook her head at him.

Capel, what has come to you ? Why will
you never talk to me about Marjory now V

1 Am I not criticizing her letter ?' he returned,
with the same provoking good-humour. ' When
you write to her, xkne, I wish you would tell her,
from me, that the elegant letter writer of the
nineteenth century ought not to indulge in such
long rambling sentences. She has completely
lost her nominative in one place. I am not at
all sure whether she is alluding to Miss Carr or
herself.'

Capel, please be serious a moment. You
know these people  the Carrs ? You like them.
But do you not think it strange that Marjory

should be so infatuated with them that she
must accompany them home ? She has been
away a whole month, and yet she means to give
us only three days.'

1 There is nothing in that,' he replied carelessly
; ' Marjory is young. In youth, one is
addicted to sudden friendships. Miss Carr is an
amiable girl : I took a fancy to her myself. She
is a perfect young gentlewoman, and would
satisfy even you, Anne. Fortescue knows Mrs.
Carr, and speaks most highly of the family.
There can be no harm in Marjory wishing to
pay them a visit.'

No harm, perhaps ; but St. Kilda is more
than two hundred miles away, and Marjory has
never been away from us before, except to
WhiteclifFe. I am afraid you will laugh at ine>
Capel  I am not generally superstitious :
presentiments are foolish things  but I have
such a feeling against her going.'

'Why, what nonsense!' he returned, a little
impatiently. ' You are like the hen with one
chick  you do not like to trust the girl out of
your sight. My dear, what have I often told
you about old maids' children ? They are overruled,
and over-talked, and fussed over until

they are perfectly unlike other healthy young
people. We are sober, staid, middle-aged folk :
we cannot hope to keep Marjory for ever under
our wing  she will have her peep at the world,
like other young folk.'

This ruffled Anne's smooth plumage a little.

We have done all we could to make her
happy,' she returned, in a plaintive voice. 'Few
girls have been so petted. You never wished to
part with her before, Capel. You always say
the house is so dull without Marjory, and yet
you take her part in this.'

4 Yes, I do,' he returned, quite seriously. 'I
have been young myself, and I know how one
yearns to work off ooe's restlessness ; one longs
for fresh faces and pastures new. Young limbs
must stretch themselves; young eyes will be
curious, and long to explore under new horizons.
If you take my advice, Anne  which you never
do, for I always take yours  I would give Marjory
her head. She is a generous, high-spirited
creature ; but she will not bear the curb, unless
you use it very lightly.'

Anne looked at him with eyes full of reproach.

How you talk, dear ! Have I ever put my
wishes against Marjory's?  have I not always

studied her interests before my own ? If I am
not anxious for her to go to St. Kilda's, it is not
because I cannot bear her out of my sight  it
is only that I have this strange feeling against
it. All this month I have not been quite happy
about her. She says so little in her letters ;
there is a strained, unnatural tone about them ;
she never mentions Mrs. Chard ; she speaks
little about the Carrs  less than ever the last
week  and yet she tells me that her heart is seton
accompanying the strangers

They are not strangers to her,' he returned
pointedly. * She has helped to nurse Miss Carr.
By-the-bye, Anne, was it not thoughtful of Marjory
to keep the news of the accident from us
until Miss Carr was well again ? She knew
how it would trouble you to hear they had been
in such danger.'

I wish she had told me more about it,'
replied his sister ; ' but Marjory's letters have
been so short and unsatisfactory. They are
always affectionate, but they are not as bright
as usual. I wonder you have not noticed it,
Capel ; you are always so sharp-sighted where
Marjory is concerned. '

Come, come! I hope I am not as fanciful as

you, Anne,' he returned, with rather a forced
laugh.

He had shaken his head in secret over these
letters, wondering what had come to the girl,
and why her fun seemed to have forsaken her :
no little familiar jokes, no girlish drolleries 
nothing but grave, everyday facts and laboured
attempts at descriptions; not as Marjory usually
wrote  out of her warm heart and glowing
imagination. But not for worlds would he hint
to Anne that he was dissatisfied also.

I tell you what !' he said suddenly, breaking
the brief silence ; ' if you will let the child have
her way and go to the Carrs, I will promise to
run down by-and-by and have a look at her.
Fortescue tells me there is a tolerable inn at St.
Kilda's, and that they provide excellent breakfasts
 trout fresh from the river, and real Westmoreland
ham. I should not mind doing a little
fishing on my own account. I might take the
Lakes on my way, too. I could bring you a
report of Marjory's friends. Englishwomen are
never seen to better advantage than at home

Anne raised her quiet eyes and looked at him.
Her smile seemed to say, ' Some one else is
restless, too ;' but her only words were :

Thank you, dear; that is a very nice plan,
and will ease my mind greatly.'

1 And you will not trouble that wise little head
of yours any more ?' he asked, half jesting and
half anxious.

1 Not if I can help it. I will at least keep
my unruly member in order. You are lord and
master here, Capel ; and if you say Marjory is to
go, you shall be obeyed.'

1 think we have no right to refuse such a
reasonable request,' he returned, rising as though
the subject were finished. ' Now Fluff and I will
have our prowl, and when I come in we will doa
little of Carlyle's " Past and Present"' for
Mr. Frere had lately taken to read to his sister
of an evening.

Anne sighed rather heavily as he quitted the
room; the pink glow of the sunset clouds seemed
melting into faint streaky greys ; the soft spring
light was fading into twilight ; the limes grew
dark before her eyes. Anne shivered a little as
she left the window and sat down beside the fire,
stretching out her delicate palms to the warmth,
as though in need of visible comfort. iVnne's
quiet spirit was strangely disturbed. If she
had spoken aloud, her thoughts would have

fashioned themselves into oddly-broken sentences.


'It is always so,' she was saying to herself;
it is always w T e who are old, who have our lives
lying behind us, who must give way and stand
aside.

" Give, and it shall he given unto you," is the
true Gospel measure, but they will not have it so.
They say, " Give all; it is our right to receive; it
is not for us to pay back ; we must be loved for
our own sweet sakes ; mothers ask for nothing
again, and you are not even a mother."

1 Then, again, he says she is restless. I know
it, and I have long known it. Is restlessness
the heritage of youth only ? for Capel is restless,
too ; they are neither of them happy ; they both
long for the impossible. Capel?  yes  I know
I know; but I dare not open his eyes to his
madness. Poor Capel ! he calls it by every name
but the right one. When the knowledge comes,
he will struggle against it, but it will master him ;
all his life he has wanted it, and the Almighty
has seen fit to deny it to him. Some people
have their lives spoiled for them, like his and
mine ; but I am a woman  a woinan can always
live in other people's lives; he wants to live

his own. Men are so ; they want the best ; they
think it their right. God has made men so.'

Anne was wandering vaguely among the
shadows she was conjuring up. Her simple,
reasonable nature was not given to fanciful
imaginations ; in reality, she was practical 
almost prosaic  but her intense love for her
brother and the child of her adoption made her
clear-sighted on their behalf. She foresaw the
difficulties that lay before them, and would have
smoothed them with her loving hands if they
would have permitted it.

She shook off her gloomy thoughts at hist
with an effort, and smiled at herself as she rang
for lights.

Here I am, talking about presentiments
like a Scotch wife,' she said, scolding herself
vigorously. * It is not like me to indulge in
whimsies. Mackay,' as that ancient domestic
entered with the lamp, ' we must see about
getting Miss Marjory's room ready. She is only
coming for three nights, but I should like it to
be in its usual order.'

Miss Marjory is taking to gadding ; that is
an ill sign in young folk,' grumbled Mackay,
whose temper was not improved with age. ' What

do they want better than their home ? Once
master was for ever going away, but he seems to
have settled down now, as a gentleman ought at
his time of life ; but there, Miss Marjory was
always for having her own way,' finished Mackay,
in an injured voice ; for, like the rest of the
household, she doated on Marjory, for all her
grumbling. It was her opinion that Muriel's
End was never the same place when the young
mistress was away.

MARJORY COMES HOME.

|fB. Free was at the station when
Marjory arrived. She knew it would

>$&$ be so, and was looking for him before
he had caught sight of the tall figure in brown
just alighting from the railway-carriage. It was
nearly a month since they had met, for circumstances
had prevented him from again taking up
his abode at the Crown, and the weeks had
seemed strangely long to him. Nevertheless,
there w 7 as no eagerness in his manner, no undue
haste in his leisurely walk, as he strolled up the
platform to meet her.

But the vivid brightness of his eyes, as she
approached in her careless, graceful fashion,
spoke of a repressed, carefully concealed joy.
He had seen no one like her, he said to himself,

all these weeks, no one who could compare with
her in the least ; yet as he greeted her, and saw
her face in the full light of the April sunshine,
he started, as though he found her unexpectedly
changed.

1 1 knew you would meet me,' she said, with
something of the condescending graciousness of a
princess. ' I saw you long before you saw me,
and Fluff has come too !' lifting the little animal
in her arms and caressing it.

They are bringing out your luggage. I have
secured a fly. Shall we go now ?' he asked
by way of saying something, and to hide his
sudden shock of apprehension.

AYhat had happened to her ? What strange,
undefinable change had come over her ? Only
a few short weeks, and yet it was a different
Marjory !

He placed himself opposite to her in the fly,
and watched her furtively as she caressed Fluff
or gazed out half-dreamily at the yellow gorse-covered
common. She was not ill, he told himself.
Her cheek was embroiled with sun and
sea-air, but she was certainly thinner. Her
large brown eyes had a softened, almost a wistful
look in them, and the mouth had new curves.

As they climbed up the steep hill leading from
the town to AVoodleigh Down, she seemed
almost lost to his presence. The smile which
he had loved to watch breaking over her face
had not once greeted him. She was graver,
older. She looked  and yet it was impossible
  as though trouble had overtaken her.

1 Marjory,' he said, attempting to rouse her,
I hope you are glad to be at home again.'

There is Muriel's End,' she returned
evasively. ' How lovely the limes look !
Woodleigh Down never looks better than in
spring dress. Those tender greens are so
vivid.'

But you do not tell me that you are glad to
be here,' he returned, watching her with still
keener anxiety.

She started, and, to his surprise, her eyes
filled suddenly with tears.

Oh, how I have wanted you  both you and
Anne ! What a long, long time it seems ; and
now I am going away again ! Oh, there is
Anne !' as she caught sight of the little figure in
black flitting between the shrubs ; and, almost
before the fly had stopped, she had sprung to the
ground.

There was nothing missing in the loving
greeting that passed between her and this
dearest friend.

1 Oh, Anne, how lovely you look ! I am so
glad to see your sweet face again !' cried the
girl, moved to unwonted demonstration.

My darling, if you knew how glad I am !'
returned Anne tenderly. 'Come to your room,
Marjory  Capel will see after the luggage. I
must have you all to myself

No ; she had noticed nothing, Mr. Frere
decided within himself. A beautiful colour had
come to Marjory's face at the sight of Anne,
and the flush had not yet died away. Would
that lost pathetic look come back into her eyes,
as they talked together ?  that look that had
filled him with uneasy alarm ; for it spoke of
some new experience unshared with them 
some girlish sorrow locked up in the recesses of
her own breast.

Nothing could have been sweeter than Marjory's
greeting ; but before many minutes her
manner had changed. At the first sight of
her room, she had turned suddenly pale, and
had burst into tears; and yet, when Anne
questioned her on the reason for her agitation,
vol. 11. 27

her explanation had been vague and unsatisfactory.


1 Oh, don't ask me !  it is nonsense, of course !
Perhaps I am tired ; I did not sleep well
last night ; I do not always sleep well  not as
I used. It is so still and quiet here  it seems
to oppress me, somehow.'

Your own home oppress you, Marjory ?'

Never mind what I say. I have wanted
you always,' with another sob. ' There, take
your old chair, and I will sit at your feet as I
used to do in my childish days. Why cannot
we be children always, Anne ?  thinking is
such hard work when we get older. There,
now, we can be comfortable,' wrapping Anne's
arms round her, and laying her head in her lap.

The very action  so unlike Marjory, for she
was rarely demonstrative even with Anne 
filled her friend with vague uneasiness. What
possessed her child, that she should sit there
hiding her face and saying nothing ? And yet
Anne knew that the tears were still flowing.

But with womanly tact and patience she said
nothing for a long time ; only smoothed the
glossy brown hair softly, as one would smooth
the plumage of a bird. Marjory would surely

tell her soon what ailed her ; she would wait till
she was ready to speak.

But presently Marjory lifted her face, and her
eyes were dry and hot, and a tremulous smile was
on her lips.

How silly I am,' she said almost petulantly ;
one would think something had happened, to seeme
behave so foolishly. You never knew I was
nervous before, did you, Anne ? and yet I must
be, crying like a baby, just because everything
looks so beautiful.'

Tell me what troubled you, darling T but
Marjory dropped her eyes ; her mood had
evidently changed.

1 1 always have been a trouble to myself as
long as I can remember,' she said impatiently,
and I am sure I have been a trouble to you.
Please do not question me ; it was only an odd
sort of nervousness. Whitecliffe always upsets
me, and a whole month there ! Anne, I will
never go near the place again  never  never !'
her voice shaking with some strong passion.

No, dear hastening to soothe her. ' I will
speak to Capel. ' I will not have you tried like
this. Have things been so bad, then ? I hoped
you and Mrs. Chard ' but, at the sound

272

of that name Marjory showed increased agitation.


Anne, if you love me, never talk to me of her
again. I owe her no duty; I will pay her none.
Neither she nor Mr. Frere shall force me there

again.

Anne's face brightened ; she thought she had
discovered the reason for Marjory's strange
behaviour. She had been a whole month under
that woman's roof, and she had been weary of
the intercourse with her.

Dear, I am sure Capel would not wish it.
I cannot bear to see you fret like this. Why
did you not tell us you were wretched, and
Capel would have come to you at once ? Try
and forget it all now, Marjory ; you are my child,
not hers, and you are safe with me at home.'

A slow shiver passed over Marjory at this
soothing speech. Alas ! alas ! that Anne's
gentle lips should speak such words. Her
child ? not hers now, for nature has claims
paramount to adoption. But Marjory's silence
had another interpretation.

1 Yes, you know you are safe with me ; weare
so sure of one another, are we not, Marjory ?
What a pity you are going away so soon with

those people ! you must tell rue all about them,
dear. Capel has quite fallen in love with your
friend Miss Carr.'

Marjory drew her hands away suddenly.

1 We have so much to talk about,' she said
quickly, almost feverishly. ' But I must dress
now, Anne; dinner will be ready;' and as Anne's
orderly soul could not deny the wisdom of this
proceeding, she reluctantly left the room. She
wished Marjory had asked her to stay and help
her. But Marjory felt a strong need of solitude ;
the hysterical lump would keep rising in her
throat. The sight of her girlish room, with the
evening sunshine streaming on pictures and
statuettes ; the white-curtained bed, where she
had slept so peacefully, with no tragedy hidden in
her breast, brought a load of sadness to her mind;
never more would such careless rest be hers !

She felt almost like a ghost revisiting its old
haunts, as she compared her present feelings
with those of a month ago.

Then she had been an idle visionary girl, full
of fragmentary discontents, seasoned with undisciplined
tempers ; now she was a woman,
who had tasted of the fruit of good and evil,
who knew of the force of temptation, and how

the unwary can fall into pits of their own
devising, who had seen the firm ground opening
beneath her feet, with the yawning chasm of a
moral earthquake ; the Marjory who held a
tragic secret in her frightened breast was not
the Marjory who had slept here a month ago.

A strange conflict, terrible in its sadness, was
harassing her. Inclination and hasty impulse
were at variance with conscience ; duty with
rigid rectitude whispered to her : ' Be true to your
honest self; remain quietly and patiently with
the friends who have watched over your infancy,
until that woman's death unseals your lips ; do
not enter secretly and as a stranger into your
mother's house

But impulse spoke more loudly, ' I cannot
remain here with this secret between me and
them ; it would destroy all enjoyment and all
peace ; they would see that I was unhappy ; I
should grow weary of acting a part ; my reticence
would wound their feelings. It is far better forme
to go.'

And then jealousy, that most masterful and
cruel of all passions, stepped in, and secured the
victory. ' They shall not go without me. I
must follow them ; I must make myself necessary

to them ; I must try to win their love, that
when I have to assert myself, I may not be
regarded as a stranger. No one shall rob me of
my mother, now I have found her. I would
rather serve as a servant in that house, than
remain here, ignored and disowned. Perhaps
when I am there I shall find my clue to the
right path ; light will come  it must  out of this
bitter doubt and darkness.'

Day and night this passionate conflict had
warred within her, until she had grown dull
and weary with it. ' Come what may, I will
go,' was her final resolution ; and after this
nothing would have moved her.

A lifetime of longing had prepared her for
this sudden response. The cry of nature is a
powerful one ; a passionate love, all the stronger
that it must be repressed, had woke up in
Marjory's soul. Her mother, her newly-found
mother, was her one thought ; and Anne's gentle
love paled beside it, as the pure moonbeams
would pale beside the scorching glare of the
mid-day sun.

Such were the thoughts that were pressing
on Marjory as she put on her white gown, after
loosening and rearranging the thick brown braids

that over-weighted the small head ; her arms
fell wearily to her side when she had finished.
Mr. Frere, as he watched her entrance, was
struck still more by the girl's altered looks. Had
she been crying, for surely her eyelids were
reddened ? but while he questioned himself
anxiously on this point, Marjory was talking in
her old careless way.

So my words have come true, Anne, and
Nellie and Mr. Brooks are engaged ; I must go
over to Parkside to-morrow

They will be expecting you, dear. Mr.
Brooks is dining there to-night ; he is certainty
very devoted. I went round there last week to
congratulate her. Nellie was looking very
pretty and happy ; she takes very kindly to her
responsibilities. Popples and Susie had been
spending the day there

4 Fancy Nellie being Popples's mamma!' returned
Marjory solemnly ; * how I should like to
forbid the banns ! Mr. Frere, I can see you are
laughing, but this is no occasion for mirth.
Nellie is my friend, and she is far too dear and
pretty for Mr. Brooks ; he is not half good
enough for her.'

1 I never think men are good enough for

women,' returned Mr. Frere, more seriously
than usual.

1 Do you remember the renowned Mrs.
Poyser's speech ?' asked Anne, in a funny little
voice  " Women are foolish, but God Almighty
made them to match the men'"

My opinion of Mr. Brooks is, that there is
not enough of him ; he is good-looking, but he
is shallow ; his character wants backbone, and
then I am afraid he is a little selfish.'

'A common masculine fault, Marjory Daw.
A man is generally A 1 in his own estimation ;
the lords of creation are generally fond of their
own way.'

1 found Mrs. Walford in rather a hazy
condition,' continued Anne, pleased that Marjory
should be so interested. ' One minute she
seemed elated  " Brooklyn is such a pretty
house, my dear," she kept on saying, " and
then Eustace is a rising man;" and the next
minute she was speaking of the poor children as
an encumbrance. " It seemed terrible for the poor
darling to be a stepmother at her age " ; you
know her way.'

1 Oh yes,' returned Marjory absently. Her
thoughts were straying; this marrying and

giving in marriage seemed so strange to her.
She almost smiled at the idea that she had ever
had a chance of winning the prize ; her lip curled
involuntarily at the remembrance of sundry compliments
paid to her by the handsome widower.
Poor dear Nellie ! she was much to be pitied,,
she thought, dismissing the subject with a fleeting
sigh.

But Anne's next remark brought a vivid rush
of colour to her cheeks.

Marjory, my child, you have told us nothing
about your new friends. I have heard about
Miss Carr from Capel ; he positively raved about
her. But you have told us so little in your
letters about her mother.'

Marjory bent over her plate ; the dusky
crimson mounted to her forehead.

It is so hard to describe people,' she said
quickly ; but her very voice sounded differently
to Mr. Frere's ears. ' I thought I told you,
Anne, that she was very beautiful. She is not
like anyone I have ever seen ; her features are
so tine, just as though they were cut in cameo,
all the lines so perfect.'

1 Capel told me that her daughter was not at
all pretty ; rather plain, in fact.'

They are very unlike each other returned
Marjory, speaking in the lowest key possible, as
though she had lost her voice. ' You would not
call Lilies plain if you knew her; she has the
sweetest expression, and then it changes so.
Mr. Barry is more like his mother. He would
be so handsome if his face were a little less
thin and worn

 Poor fellow ! Capel seemed so interested in
him. It is such a pity that he should be so
afflicted. It is very kind of them to invite you,
Marjory. Mr. Fortescue says they are such
warm-hearted, hospitable people. He stayed
there six weeks once.'

Under the circumstances, it was wonderfully
kind,' replied the girl, in a dry, hard voice ; l but
I suppose they thought me lady-like. I do credit
to your bringing up, Anne.'

Mr. Frere and his sister exchanged a silent
glance. This proud speech was so like Marjory.
She had made the acquaintance of these strangers
under such disadvantageous circumstances. If
they had met her under their roof, it w T ould have
been far better ; but to recognise her claims to
equality and friendship at the moment they discovered
her to be the daughter of their old

servant, was a compliment to their discernment
and Marjory's aristocratic bearing. Her refinement
and cultured speech must be indeed a
surprise to Mrs. Carr.

Mr. Frere was so strangely silent this evening,
that Anne found it difficult to satisfy her innocent
curiosity about Marjory's new friends. She
hazarded a few more questions, which Marjory
answered as briefly as possible. And then she
said, with the confidence of one who has good
news to impart :

I suppose you will not stay very long with
these people, Marjory ? Capel means to come
and look after you. He says there is a capital
inn at St. Kilda's where he could stay and enjoy
some fishing.'

Marjory started, and looked up uneasily. Ashe
met her eyes, they seemed to question his
purpose. Mr. Frere saw that the news was
unwelcome. It troubled her to know that he
was coming.

1 It would be better not to do that,' she said
slowly ; ' it would look strange ; as though you
could not trust me with them.'

I differ from you there,' he answered cheerfully.


It would be embarrassing to Mrs. Carr,' she
continued more firmly. ' Mr. Fortescue talks
about their hospitality. They would not hear of
your remaining at an inn ; you would be invited
to Mavisbank.'

Is there any legitimate reason against my
accepting any such invitation ?' was his cool
response to this.

No ; but your following me would look so
strange  so uncalled for  I am not a child,' she
stammered, with an annoyed air. For the first
time in her life she felt his presence would be
unwelcome to her. The tender watchfulness
implied in this resolution failed to touch her.
She wanted to be free : away from their loving
surveillance, their questioning looks. Mr. Frere
read all this in her face, and it only strengthened
him in his purpose. ' Something had gone wrong
with the girl ; he must follow her, and find it
out.'

I shall come upon you when you least expect
it,' he said, in a rallying voice. 'Perhaps you
will have come out to sketch the old castle, and
you will see me sauntering up the road with a
knapsack.'

I see you are determined to make me uncomfortable,'

she answered, with decided temper,
as she rose from the table.

But as he opened the door for her with a
light, mocking bow, she could make nothing of
his look. There was fun in his eyes, but there
was something else beside. What was it? Marjory
asked herself, as she walked down the
garden-path. But as she puzzled herself over
it, he came up to her, and began to talk in his
old manner of the books they had both been
reading, and the paper he was writing for the
Nineteenth Century, on old myths and superstitions
gliding from one topic to another in easy
fashion, until her face had lost its shade, and
she grew bright and interested.

Now we will go in to Anne, Marjory Daw,'
he said gently ; ' and you must not be cross
with me again to-night.'

CHAPTER VII.

TELL ME WHAT TROUBLES YOU.

'AEJOEY paid an early visit to Park-side.
Mrs. Walford and Nellie were
still sitting over their late breakfast,
when Marjory entered the room unannounced.
Nellie jumped up, and greeted her friend rapturously.
She looked prettier than ever in her
dainty morning costume : a diamond twinkled
on the little plump white hand. Marjory held
it for a moment, and gravely inspected the
ring, at which Nellie blushed still more rosily.

Marjory, were you very surprised when you
got my letter ?' she whispered.

'Not at all was the nonchalant reply. 'Mrs.
Walford, perhaps you will tell me what is the
proper thing to do under the circumstances ?
Am I to congratulate Nellie, or condole with
her ?'

1 Oh, my dear,' returned Mrs. "Watford, in a
cosy voice, ' is it not dreadful to think of poor
Nellie having four little girls to manage ? I tell
dear Eustace it is such a responsibility for so
young a girl.'

They are such dears !' returned the little
bride-elect, in the happiest way imaginable. ' I
am so fond of them, Marjory. Susie is a
darling, and Popples is so delicious ; and I think
Dora and Ada are such nice children. '

Just listen to her, Marjory!' exclaimed Mrs.
Watford resignedly. ' Is it not strange, at her
age, to like the prospect of being a stepmother?
I would never have done such a thing myself 
widowers were never in my line. But there !
some men can talk you into anything. I do
believe Nellie will be quite pleased to hear them
call her mamma.'

This made Nellie blush still more, but she
maintained her point bravely.

I wish mamma would not talk so,' she said,
with a charming pout. ' Of course I must be
fond of Eustace's children ; but } T ou need not
believe her, Marjory  she already spoils them
dreadfully.'

Well, my dear, a little spoiling never hurts

good children ; and, as I tell Eustace, his
children are certainly the best-behaved little
creatures. Now run into the garden, girls ; for
I know you want to have a chat by yourselves,
and cook is waiting: for her orders. What
do you think, Marjory ?  Nellie has taken to
going into the kitchen every morning, to seethe
joints weighed and the pastry made. I tell
Eustace she means to be a notable little housekeepers


1 Are you so very happy, Nellie ?' asked Marjory,
when she found herself alone with her
friend.

Oh yes, indeed I am !' returned Nellie, without
a moment's hesitation. ' Eustace is so good
and kind  mamma is devoted to him. I think
I am the happiest girl in the world !'

Oh, Nellie !'

Oh, Nellie, indeed ! What may that mean,
Miss Grave-face ?'

Don't be vexed with me, dear  but I do not
think him half good enough for you. You must
let me say it, Nellie, because I am so fond of
you, and we have always been such friends

1 Oh, but you do not know him, Marjory
replied Nellie, with the innocent faith of a girl

vol. 11. 28

who feels herself honestly in love. ' No one is
perfect in this world. I am very faulty myself,
though I cannot get Eustace to believe it. It is
very nice of him, of course, to say such things,'
went on Nellie, with delicious inconsequence.
But there are no angels nowadays ; and saints,
especially mediaeval ones, were so very peculiar 
do you not think so ? And, on the whole, I
like people to have some faults.'

I After that, it is useless for me to say any-things
returned Marjory, with a pitying shrug.
1 Seeing is believing ; but I never would have
believed that you were quite so far gone  Mr.
Brooks too !'

This was not quite polite of Marjory, but
Nellie w 7 as too delightfully self-absorbed to
notice the innuendo.

I thought once that he was taking a fancy
to you, Marjory she went on, quite happily.
1 He certainly admired you at one time, until
you said that about Popples, you know

'Oh dear no  nothing of the kind answered
Marjory rather hastily.

I I spoke to Eustace about it one day, and he
said  you will not mind my repeating his words,
Marjory ?  that though he thought you a handsome

girl, and very amusing when you chose,
he soon saw that you and he would never pull
together. He liked a girl to be softer and more
feminine ; but you did not even seem to care for
children. He would not believe me when I told
him that you were only teasing him about
Popples. If Eustace has a fault, it is that he
does not see a joke easily.'

1 But I was in earnest  quite in earnest,
Nellie. I was tired to death of Popples.'

Oh no ; it was only your joke,' returned
Nellie, in flat contradiction. ' I know how
warm-hearted you really are, Marjory. I wish
you were not going away just now. This new
friend of yours, Miss Lilies Carr, has quite cut
me out. Do you know,' dropping her voice
mysteriously, ' that mamma will not hear of my
being married before next spring ? I shall be
one-and-twenty then, but Eustace declares he
will not wait a day after September. I expect
he will talk her over. And if dear little Ada is
delicate, as he says, I think it will be my duty
to marry him as soon as possible.'

Marjory wisely kept her thoughts to herself.
She knew Mr. Brooks's mild obstinacy, and was
sure he would manipulate Ada's slight delicacy

282

skilfully to suit bis own ends. Mrs. Walford
was like wax iu masculine hands, and Nellie's
affectionate little heart was equally plastic.
Marjory was convinced in her own mind that
Nellie would be mistress of Brooklyn long before
September. The Affords, mother and daughter,
had certainly found their master in the handsome
widower. Marjory spent the greater part of the
morning at Parkside. She had just said goodbye
to her friend, and was w T asking down the
parties under the leafy shade of the limes, when
she came upon Mr. Brooks, just turning out of
his own gates.

He looked well-dressed and self-possessed as
usual. He seemed a little surprised at seeing
Marjory, but she stopped and frankly accosted
him.

I have been spending the morning with
Nellie,' she said, giving him her hand with a
more friendly smile than usual. ' Of course, I
have heard the grand news. I need not tell
you how heartily I think you are to be congratulated,
Mr. Brooks.'

Thanks,' he replied with masculine brevity,
but he was evidently gratified by her warmth of
manner, for he turned and walked with hera

few steps. ' I think myself very fortunate,
Miss Deane, I assure you. Nellie is exquisitely
feminine ; she takes after Mrs. Watford in that.
I have never met two more charming women

Nellie is the clearest little creature in the
world. Forgive me if I am rude, Mr. Brooks,
but I don't know anyone good enough for
her.'

You are right there,' he returned, evidently
with real feeling. ' I shall do my best to make
her happy.' And then he shook hands with
Marjory, and left her.

1 She is improving him already,' was Marjory's
opinion.  He is not half so conceited as he
was. I expect he has really fallen in love with
her. I dare say he will make her a good husband.
Nellie will not expect too much ; she has no
mental ambitions. I expect he will easily satisfy
her.'

'I never knew Miss Deane had so much
heart,' thought Mr. Brooks, as he hurried on to
Parkside. He was one of those generous lovers
who lavish gifts on the object of his affection.
He had some of his wife's trinkets with him
some turquoise and pearl ornaments that he
thought would match his fiancee' s blue eyes. * She

was certainly very nice in her manner this
morning, but she has fallen off in her looks. I
wonder that I could ever have thought her handsome
 her face is so heavy.'

Marjory retailed the history of her morning
with much humour at the luncheon-table. She
took off Mrs. "Watford and Mr. Brooks to the
life. Anne laughed at the girl's racy description.
She thought Marjory was more cheerful
and like herself to-day. She had no idea that
the girl was trying to hoodwink them  that her
liveliness and satire were pure recklessness.

She carried off Anne after luncheon for a round
of visits, beginning with the Vicarage and Mrs.
Curwin, until Anne pleaded weariness, and refused
to enter another house. Her sprightliness
lasted all the evening. She rattled off all her
most brilliant pieces, one after another, without
a moment's intermission, until Mr. Frere closed
the pianoforte and shook his head at her ; and
then she suddenly discovered that she was tired,
and went to bed.

The next morning there was shopping in
Moorbridge, and packing that went on late into
the afternoon. As they sat over their five-o'clock
tea, Anne declared that she had never been so

tired in her life. She was sure Marjory was
quite knocked up too, she looked so pale ; but
the girl indignantly scouted this idea.

'What nonsense, Anne!' she said, a little
petulantly. * What should tire me?  just
putting those things into the boxes ? I am
going for a stroll now ; it is such a lovely evening.
Lie down and rest yourself

And then she gave Anne one of her hearty
kisses, and went out.

Marjory was longing for a solitary hour with
her own thoughts. As she paced under the
limes, the freshness and coolness of the spring
evening seemed to lull her restlessness. Life's
fitful fever seemed to hush itself under the
sweet peacefulness of the hour, under ' the quiet
breadths of evening sky

But this tranquil mood was of short duration.
A moment after she had turned aside from the
main road, Fluff came fussily to her feet, and
Fluff's master sauntered round the corner.

Marjory's eyes were fixed on the ground, or
she would have seen him crossing the churchyard.
He had a full view of her before Fluff's
joyous barking had roused her. The slow walk,
the sad, thoughtful face, the joyless abstraction

of manner, had all been visible to him ; but he
apparently took no notice of the girl's trembling
lip and the startled discomposure with which she
greeted him.

I did not see you,' she stammered. ' I
thought you and Fluff were at Moorbridge.'

I was paying a visit at the Vicarage. Mr.
Curwin sent me a note this afternoon. There
is to be a vestry-meeting or some such nuisance
tomorrow. Are you going towards Pemberton,
Marjory ? I suppose your humble servant may
accompany you ? You and I have not had a
walk together since you lectured me on the East
Hill.'

I do not remember,' she answered vaguely.
Oh yes, you may come ! If I said I did not
want you, you would come all the same. I have
learned that by this time.'

Are men like that ?' he asked, with a peculiar
smile. ' Perhaps my will has only been asleep
all these years, or I have been too lazy to assert
it. I was a terrible fellow for having my own
way once. Anne will tell you that.'

1 think you continue to have your own way
now,' she returned demurely. * You have an
easy manner, but one must not judge from the

surface. I did not want you to come to St.
Kilda's ; I thought it would look strange to my
friends. I think so still ; but, of course, you
will come.'

1 Oh yes, I shall come,' he answered lazily.

1 There !' she continued, with a sudden flash
at him, and he could see she was annoyed at his
persistence ; ' you will have your own way in
spite of my feelings. Mr. Frere, I do not like
to be treated like a child  to be followed and
watched for my own good. I want to be
free.'

1 How long have you been afraid of me ?' he
asked suddenly, looking her full in the face.
1 Look here, Marjory Daw ; I will make a compact
with you. Tell me what troubles you,
what has brought you home to us an altered
creature, and I will promise not to come to St.
Kildare

must have seen by her suddenly paling
face how his words moved her ; but the next
moment she seemed to recover herself by a violent
effort.

Well, Marjory ?' very persuasively.

I do not know what you mean,' she faltered,
trying to hurry on ; but he kept step with her.

It is not like you to fancy things, Mr. Frere.
I am quite well  quite myself

There is nothing the matter with your health,
my dear,' he returned quietly; ' Providence has
endowed you with a splendid physique ; nevertheless,
you are not yourself, Marjory. Something
is troubling you, robbing your young
sleep of its sweetness, and dimming the brightness
of your spirits. If you will not confide in
me  if I have lost your complete confidence 
at least, let Anne share it. For both our
sakes, Marjory, do not leave us like this tomorrow


He had never spoken to her so before  some
emotion was deepening his voice. As he pleaded
with her, the old carelessness, the assumed coolness,
had wholly disappeared : he was making
her feel for the first time the power of his concentrated
purpose and will, though she was as
yet ignorant what that purpose might be. She
had never felt afraid of him before. All the
years spent under his roof had never shown him
as a man to be feared as well as loved; but now
she shrank from him with new timidity. As
she heard his voice, she hardly ventured to
raise her eyes.

1 1 do not know what you mean,' she said,
and her lip quivered like a child's ; ' Anne does
not talk to me in this way. I have nothing to
tell either of you.'

1 You have nothing that you [wish to tell.
Ah, Marjory Daw, you remind me of the days
when you were a little child  when you ransacked
the drawers of my writing-table for red
sealing-w r ax, and could not be made to acknowledge
your theft or give up the spoils. " It
isn't F'ere's, it is mine ;" that is what you
kept saying. " I dot it, and it is Mary Doo's."
And, sure enough, there it was hidden snugly
in the folds of your frock. " Mine, mine!  not
F'ere's !" w T as the burthen of your cry. I remember
Anne cried as she punished you ; and
then you cried, too.'

The old humorous voice, with a break of
pathos in it, was too much for Marjory. They
were standing by the low wooden bench where
she had sat that March day ; and now she suddenly
sank down upon it, and covered her face
with her hands, and he could see the slow tears
trickling through her fingers.

Oh that I were that little child again !' he
heard her say.

Tell me what troubles you, darling,' lie
said, bending over and speaking in so low a
voice that she lost the last word ; but if she
had seen his face, surely the veil must have
dropped from her eyes.

1 Yes, I will tell you!' she returned, with
sudden vehemence, and dashing the tears away.
'I will tell you  but not now. When the time
comes for me to speak, you will not need to ask
me. I will come to you of my own accord  I
owe you at least as much as that

1 You owe me nothing, Marjory.'

Everything  everything  to you and Anne.'
Then, recovering herself : ' If you come to St.
Kilda  I cannot prevent you; for another year,
I suppose  you can claim some sort of right to
control my actions.'

You may be assured that I shall claim any
rights that belong to me,' he continued gravely.
But there is one thing I cannot bear : that you
should endure trouble alone, and that I should
not share it.'

'You could not carry my burthens,' she said,
with a faint smile. ' We came alone into
the world, and we must die alone  " Each
in its hidden sphere of joy and woe."

Do you not remember what Keble says, Mr.
Frere V

1 When you women quote Keble, I always
give up the ghost of my argument he said,
striving with a great effort to resume his old
manner. ' Some change is coming over me,
Marjory ; my hermit spirit positively refuses to
dwell alone any longer.'

We should not like our nearest and dearest
to read all our thoughts she answered, with an
involuntary shudder; 'supposing we were to find
Hades peopled with our past thoughts, Mr.
Frere  that the shadowy troops of the dead
and gone things for whose birth we are responsible,
were to haunt us there !'

1 A horrible suggestion, one that gives me all
sorts of creepy feelings ; how can you talk so,
dear, with the spring sunset shining full in your
face ?'

Let us walk towards it then, and forget
everything gloomy she returned gently, giving
him her hand. He held it for a moment, and
then pressed it kindly and let it fall ; and then
they walked on in silence. Both their hearts
were full ; but only the man knew that he had
betrayed himself to unseeing eyes, and told his

secret to Leaf ears. Marjory herself was too
E elf-absorbed to grasp the truth that lay so near
her, only all that evening her manner was so
gentle to him, and so affectionate, that Anne
noticed it. She thought Marjory seemed very
fond of Capel, and wondered that her brother
was so grave and quiet. There was only one jarring
word spoken throughout the evening. Anne,
who was busy with sundry small preparations
for Marjory's departure the following morning,
suddenly asked her brother if he intended accompanying
Marjory to London. t Of course,'
he answered curtly ; ' I shall go to St. Pancreas,
and leave Marjory in Mrs. Carr's hands.' His
tone was unusually sharp and decided ; but ashe
spoke, he involuntarily looked across the
room at the girl. She did not speak ; but he
could see by the turn of her long neck, and the
rising colour, that this resolution did not please
her, but for once Marjory held her peace.

He was very quiet with her the next day.
They travelled together almost in silence. He
was thoughtful for her comfort, and seemed to
anticipate her wishes ; but his gravity was so
unbroken that Marjory looked at him wistfully
now and then, fearing that she had hurt him.

As they were driving towards St. Pancreas,
she could not refrain from putting the question
to him. ' Have I made you angry with me, Mr.
Frere ?' she asked timidly ; ' are you displeased
with me in any way  but she was almost sorry
that she had spoken, he looked at her in such
evident surprise.

Have I ever been angry with you in your
life ?' he said, smiling ;  why, Marjory, what
absurd idea is this ?'

6 You are so different,' she faltered ; ' you are
not like yourself at all

He seemed to revolve this speech in his mind
as he looked out of the cab window.

How can you expect me to be like myself?'
he returned reproachfully ; ' you have turned my
world topsy-turvy. It is only just ten, and I
breakfasted three hours ago ; if Joshua found
his long day as unsatisfactory as I shall find
mine, he was to be pitied.'

I asked you not to do it,' she replied, laughing
at this. ' Would not an afternoon's nap
make up for the rest of which I have deprived

you ?'

Come, that is not a bad idea ; I will consider
that proposition of yours. Here we are at St.

Pancreas ; and there is your friend Miss Carr
looking out for you.'

You are late, Marjory exclaimed Lilies,
coming forward to meet them. ' Mother and
Barry are already in the carriage ; we have
seats in the drawing-room car. Fleming will
see to the luggage, Mr. Frere. Please come
and let me introduce you to my mother.'

1 Come, Marjory he said  for she seemed
inclined to linger  ' our train from Moor-bridge
must have been late ; we have timed it
too finely. I shall only just have a moment to
shake hands with Mrs. Carr and say good-bye
to you.'

But he found time for something else ; for,
after chatting cheerfully for a few minutes to
Mrs. Carr and Barry, and making sundry arrangements
for their comfort, he drew Marjory to the
door of the saloon.

Marjory, will you promise to write to me if
you want my help in any way ?'

Most certainly I will promise you that she
answered gratefully.

1 You were right,' he continued a little absently ;
1 Mrs. Carr is a beautiful woman. A most uncommon
type of face. You are not unlike her,

Marjory, though I cannot flatter you by saying
that you can quite come up to her.'

1 No, indeed !' she answered hurriedly ; but he
was surprised to see how she flushed at his words.
But they are signalling for the train to move ;
you must go, Mr. Frere  indeed you must

1 No hurry he returned, in a leisurely tone.
1 1 do not intend to go to St. Kilda's for the
next two or three weeks. Well, good-bye ; take
care of yourself, my  Marjory Doo

She smiled at him, and moved away ; but he
still stood on the platform, watching her as she
walked slowly up the long saloon until she joined
her friends.

'What a pleasant-looking man Mr. Frere is
observed Mrs. Carr ; ' he has such a nice clever
face. He is no relation of yours, really, Marjory ?'

No ; he is only Anne's brother she returned
simply. She was looking at him, trying to
imagine how he appeared in other people's eyes 
to strangers who had never seen him before.
They must think him distinguished-looking, but a
little odd, she thought, with his silver hair and
keen, brown face ; not young, but certainly not
old ; he seemed younger somehow than he used.

Marjory was so lost in these innocent reflector.

11. 29

tions that Mrs. Can's questioning glance did not

reach her ; but she would have made nothing of
that lady's smile as she stooped to gather up
some wraps for Barry. But Lilies caught it, and
smiled too. Both the women thought that they
were tracing the beginning of a romance.

1 Of course he does, and she has not found it
out Mrs. Can's amused eyes seemed to say.
She will find it out soon, and then how will it
be with her ?' Lilies said to herself. But she
blushed a little over her wise thoughts ; for she,
too, had a budding romance in her life.

MARJORY IS INTRODUCED TO COSY NOOK.

'Y dear, I am afraid you are very tired,'
observed Mrs. Carr, in a motherly
tone of solicitude, as they drew near
the journey's end.

No, indeed; I am only stupid answered
Marjory, rousing herself with difficulty from her
abstraction. For the last hour she had hardly
spoken, but sat with her eyes fixed on the flying
landscape, listening to her companions' conversation,
but not joining in it. ' Poor Mr. Barry is
far more tired than I.'

Mother, is it not absurd for Marjory to be
so formal with Barry  and he is only a boy ?'
asked Lilies, whose spirits seemed to rise with
every milestone they passed. The blue veil she
had tied round her hat showed up the golden
tints of her fair hair and delicate complexion.

292

Her bright, varying smiles, her merry speeches,
were evidently sources of enjoyment to Mrs.
Carr, her eyes rested upon her so fondly.

'You are-right there, Lily observed Barry
suddenly, unclosing his tired eyes. The journey
was a martyrdom to the poor fellow, though he
tried to hide the fact as well as he could. ' Miss
Deane is horribly formal.'

1 I will call you Barry if you will call me
Marjory said the girl, with quick impulse. Her
manner surprised them all a little; it was so
agitated. But Mrs. Carr said, in her usual quiet
voice :

1 Well, my dear, why should it not be so ?
Barry feels quite at home with you, though he
does not generally care for young ladies' society ;
but we are all such good friends that we need
not trouble ourselves with formalities.'

I should like it very much returned Marjory,
in a low voice.

All right replied Barry good-humouredly.
1 It will be good fun making Lil jealous basking
you to do all sorts of things for me.
The only difficulty is, if I get too much used
to you, I shall scold you as I do the others

I shall not mind that,' she answered, with

an affectionate smile at him ; but a moment
afterwards she had turned away, fearing that she
had betrayed too much interest in him. ' Her
brother  hers !' she said under her breath.
Poor boy ! how she was learning to love
him !

Barry himself wondered with grateful humility
why this girl, a stranger to them all,
took such interest in him. ' She was so kind,'
he thought. ' Perhaps it was her nature to be
kind to everyone ; but even Lilies could not be
more gentle

1 suppose Hurrell w 7 ill be at the station,' he
observed by-and-by, with a mischievous glance
at Lilies.

1 1 am sure I don't know if he will be there
she answered, with assumed carelessness.
Mother, how glad I am to be at home with
you again ! There is no place like home, after
all!'

No, darling ; we always agree in that. I
wish, for the sake of poor Barry, that we had a
station at St. Kilda's. The long drive from
Wharton will tire him still more.'

Never mind, mother; it cannot be helped,'
returned the boy, a little irritably.

His nerves were jarred by weariness and pain,
but the next moment he brightened up.

1 There's Hurrell, large as life ; and Lassie is
with him ! Are they not a fine pair, Miss
Deane  Marjory, I mean ?'

Marjory looked as she was bidden. The
train was just slackening speed, and on the
platform she saw a tall, powerfully-built young
man, in a brown velveteen coat, with a brown
moustache. Marjory did not think him handsome
then or afterwards, but she never saw a
face that, on nearer inspection, pleased her
better ; it was so frank and honest. The dark
eyes had such a kindly gleam in them ; there
was such a mixture of gentleness and strength,
such an air of bonhommie about him  that
untranslatable word. The handsome collie
that stood beside him was evidently a favourite
with the whole party, for as Mr. Went worth
opened the door she sprang in, and began licking-barry's
hands and fawning on him after the
manner of dumb beasts.

Lassie is glad to get you back,' he said
pleasantly, looking at Lilies as he spoke ; but
his face plainly said that Lassie's master was
glad too.

Marjory noticed the half-shy, half-pleased
blush that answered his look. Evidently it
contented him, for he turned to Mrs. Carr and
gave her his attention.

1 We must introduce you to Miss Deane,
Hurrell,' she observed, when they were all on
the platform together. ' She and my Lilies are
great friends

I am sure we need no other introduction,
Miss Deane,' he returned, shaking hands with
her in the most friendly manner ; but Marjory
noticed he scanned her closely for a moment.
1 Now, Mrs. Carr, I know what you wish.
Fleming and I will help Barry into the barouche,
if you and Lilies will wait a moment. My dogcart
is here, so there is plenty of room. You
will let me drive you, Lilies, will you not ?'

Oh yes !' she answered quite simply, as
though the request were not a novel one.

She stood quietly aside until Barry was
carefully lifted into the carriage and Mrs. Carr
and Marjory had taken their places ; and then
Mr. Went worth turned to her with a smile, and
gave her his hand to assist her into the dogcart.


Marjory watched them with all a girl's curiosity.

Lilies was not engaged  she knew that,
for she wore no ring of betrothal ; and yet the
look of quiet understanding that passed between
them  the simple, almost unconscious reception
of Mr. Wentworth's attention, spoke of a large
amount of friendship. Marjory looked after
them until the dog-cart, with its high-stepping
mare, had disappeared from her view, and then
she turned and met Mrs. Carr's smile.

1 I see what you are thinking,' she said, bending
forward a little. ' You are wondering how
things stand between those two. No, they are
not engaged ; but it is all Lilies's fault. Poor
Hurrell has much to bear.'

Marjory looked significantly at Barry, who
was leaning back on the cushions with closed
eyes and forehead wrinkled with weariness and
pain. Mrs. Carr understood her glance at once.

1 Oh, we have no secrets, we three  have we,
Barry ?  and Hurrell takes us each in confidence
by turns, so we know all about it. He is far
too good and patient, I tell him. Few young
men would act as he does. I think if anyone is
worthy of my child, it is Hurrell Wentworth.
His mother and I are dear friends, and she is so
fond of Lilies

She has told me a little about them. Of
course, I saw there was something, but I
hardly understood. She seems to like him,
but yet '

Marjory stopped. A glimmer of the real
truth of the case began to dawn on her.

Hurrell may be sure of one thing returned
Mrs. Carr, in a tone of quiet conviction  i that
Lilies will never marry anyone else. But, unfortunately,
he has a dangerous rival in her
mother. She cannot make up her mind to leave
Mavisbank for Headlands.'

1 That is what I thought answered Marjory,
in a low voice. ' You are Lilies's great
absorbing passion. It seems to me, even
with my slight knowledge of her, that she
will find it difficult to make room for anyone
else.'

1 Oh, Hurrell has now a good share of her
affections. Of course, he knows how things are
between us ; he is ready to make large allowance.
Anyone else, I tell her, would insist on
a monopoly ; but Hurrell says he will never try
to separate us.'

1 There are few like that, I should think returned
Marjory, with intuitive shrewdness.

Most men are so selfish ; they must have all
or none.'

By a curious revolution of thought, her mind
turned to Mr. Frere. ' Was he not like that ?
Could anyone be more unselfish than he ?' A
speech of his had haunted her ever since that
sad talk of theirs. ' " There is one thing I cannot
bear "  was not that what he had said ? and
how troubled his voice had been !  " there is
one thing I cannot bear, that you should endure
trouble alone, and that I should not share it."
What girl had a friend like that V she thought
proudly ; and there was no envy in her heart
that other girls  Nellie and Lilies  had their
lovers, and she had none.

Lilies's husband will never have all while I
am alive was Mrs. Carr's reply to this. And
there was a mixture of pride and tenderness in
her voice. ' I was an only daughter, Marjory ;
but I left my mother  it seems to me far too
willingly  for my husband. With Lilies and
myself there will never be any real separation.
Redlands is so near, we should meet every day

1 She will grow more reconciled to the idea
by-and-by,' returned Marjory a little absently.
The subject had almost a painful interest for

her, but just now her thoughts would concentrate
themselves on her own strange story. She was
about to enter her rightful home  as a guest 
for the first time in her life, she would sleep
under her mother's roof. No wonder her
attention wandered as her eyes strayed over the
hedgerows and fields to the line of dark blue
hills.

Mrs. Carr thought the scenery was absorbing
her.

This is not a very pretty road,' she said,
arresting Marjory's flagging attention, ' although
it is very beautiful all round Thorpe
and St. Theobald's ; but St. Kilcla's itself is
bleak and unprepossessing. We shall not even
pass through our one main street, and you will
not see the church and Vicarage. Now, my
dear, look, there are the ruins of our celebrated
Castle ; and there, up among those dark woods,
is Mavisbank.'

Marjory threw a quick searching glance round
her. She could see the roofs of St. Kilda's,
and the green hill with broken castellated walls
and ruined arches, with ivy clinging about them ;
and just before them a lonely white house
standing high in conspicuous isolation, with a

dark background of woods, and all round them
the purple hills with the spring sunset above
them.

A steep road led to Mavisbank, but the
horses were evidently well used to it. Mrs.
Carr chatted on cheerfully as the carriage-springs
jolted over the rough stones.

1 You will be surprised at the total absence
of flower-gardens she observed ; ' but our
climate is so bleak, and the house stands so
high, that our favourite flowers would never
bloom there, and Lilies and I are too fond of
them to see them blighted by our cold winds.
But we have built a conservatory  or rather
our glass drawing-room, as we call it  and
there Lilies can work among them to her
heart's content. It was a great expense, but
I could not deny myself the gratification of
giving her such pleasure.'

She has told me about it,' was Marjory's
low reply.

Lilies had often described to her that
wonderful birthday-gift.

Mrs. Carr's attention just now was engrossed
by her son, who was evidently enduring great
suffering from the jolting. And so Marjory was

left to herself for a little, and in a few minutes
an abrupt turn in the road brought them to
Mavisbank.

The gate stood wide open, and the empty
dog-cart was before the door. A smooth, green
lawn, with a belt of evergreens, was in front,
and a wide carriage-drive brought them to the
portico. The heavy oak door, thickly studded
with nails, was thrown back, and Lilies and
Mr. Wentworth were on the threshold waiting
for them.

Welcome to Mavisbank, Marjory she said,
running out to meet her friend and bring her
in. * Now, dear, is this not pleasant and
homelike ?'

Marjory started with a little natural surprise.
She had expected to find herself in an ordinary
hall or passage, but, on crossing the threshold,
she found herself at once in a sitting-room ; at
least, the fine old hall, with its oak panelling,
had evidently been transformed into one.

This noble room ran from front to back of the
house, and, as Marjory afterwards discovered,
occupied one entire wing, and was half living,
room and half library. One side was fitted up
with bookcases from the ceiling to the floor. A

large ba r circular window, with a circular
cushioned seat, looked over the back lawn. A
round table stood in the centre of the hall.
Heavily carved oak chairs, with lounges and
couches of every description, filled up the space
round the grand old fireplace. Some pine knots
had just been flung on the bright coal fire, and
merrily spluttered as the sparks flew up the
chimney. A little square tea-table stood in one
corner, and the china and silver gleamed in the
ruddy light.

1 Mother, mother, does not Cosy Nook look
delicious !' cried Lilies, looking delightedly round
her. ' Do you know, Marjory, I always call
this hall Cosy Nook. We never sit anywhere
else of an evening  do we, mother ? There is
my piano, and that is Barry's special couch; and
this is mother's chair, and her little work-table
and davenport; and these are my private belongings,'
pointing to similar articles of furniture on
the opposite side. ' Look how nicely that screen
shuts off the staircase and passage, and keeps
out all draughts. Don't be shocked, Marjory,
when I tell you we have no drawing-room 
mother and I abhor the word  no boudoir, no
morning-room, no private sitting-room at all.

There is only the dining-room, rather a small
dull apartment, and Barry's room, when he
wants to study and be disagreeable  I call all
hermits disagreeable  and my dear conservatory.
The rest are just kitchens and offices.'

Oh, Lilies, you chatterton ! do be quiet a
moment, and let Marjory take in her new
surroundings !' exclaimed Mrs. Carr, who had
seated herself tranquilly in one of the high-backed
chairs by the fire. Mr. Went worth
had gone off with Fleming to assist Barry to
his own room, for he wished to retire at once ;
and the three ladies were left alone.

6 Now, mother,' persisted Lilies, 'how am I
to keep quiet ? I am just ready to sing with
joy at being at home again. Marjory, why
will you stand at that window, when I want to
show you the conservatory before it is dark ?'

One moment,' pleaded Marjory. She was
standing in the bay, looking out as though
fascinated by the unexpected view. There was
no garden at all. A narrow gravel walk ran
under the windows, and beyond, a smooth
expanse of turf, like a miniature field, only
without fences of any kind, led into the woods.
Absolutely nothing before her eyes except this

lawn, and dark hanging woods that seemed to
climb up the hillside.

4 Well, Marjory,' coming to her side, ' what do
you think of the Mavis woods ? Is not that
better than a conventional park or flower
garden ?'

1 It is beautiful, but it is a little gloomy too,'
returned Marjory doubtfully. ' On a summer
afternoon, I can imagine no prospect more
beautiful than those woods. It must be delightful
just to put on one's hat and stroll across
the grass, and find a cool shady nook under
those trees

1 Well ?' interrogatively; 'and what objection
lies behind that grudging speech of yours ?'

It is just this,' returned Marjory. * In spring
and summer, there can be nothing more beautiful ;
but in autumnal twilight or winter nights, I can
fancy how dark and gloomy those woods must
look. If I lived here,' with a slight shudder,
I am sure I should conjure up weird shapes
gliding out from between the trees, and coming
over the grass to press shadowy faces against
this window.'

Lilies laughed merrily.

Oh, my dear, what an imagination you

have ! I am sure you could write a collection
of horrible ghost-stories. I must ask Hurrell to
tell you some. Oh, of course, it is deliciously
gloomy here, especially on wet October evenings.
There is nothing I like better than to stand here
and "watch the drip, drip of the rain on the
sodden grass, or to listen to the branches
crackling and waving in a strong wind ; and
just as I begin to feel nice and creepy, as the
children say, to turn round and see Cosy Nook,
with mother sitting at her little tea-table, and
Barry dozing, and the bright firelight leaping in
every corner of the dear old hall.'

Well, Lilies, after that description, I certainly
think you possess a vivid imagination yourself.'


'You are quite right, Miss Deane,' observed
Mr. Wentworth, who had drawn near the girls
unobserved. ' Miss Can* is horribly superstitious.
She quite believes old wives' stories about apparitions.
The boggle, the swath  or swarf, as
they call it in Northumberland  or the writhe,
or waif, or fetch, or whatever you like to name
it, is quite a creed with her. She will tell you
quite seriously 

vol. 11. 30

" A boggle'fi been seen wi' twae heeds,
(Lord, help us !) ayant Wullycar'us,
Wi' twae saucer-been and a tail ;

They du say it's auld Lobby Barras." '

f Hurrell !' remonstrated Lilies ; but her pout
was lost in the gathering twilight. But nevertheless
she whispered to Marjory : ' I will get
him to tell you one of his nonsensical tales as
we have our tea  it is too late to see the conservatory
to-night  and he talks the dialect so
well

Come, Lilies !' exclaimed Mrs. Can* at this
point, ' I am waiting to give you and Marjory
some tea ; and then you must take her upstairs,
and show her her room.'

Miss Deane,' observed Mr. Went worth, as he
handed her her cup, and then helped himself, 'of
course our good friends here have told you
Mavisbank is haunted ?'

'Now, Hurrell,' interrupted Mrs. Can, smiling,
1 I will not have any nonsense put into our
young guest's head. It is nothing of the kind,
Marjory.'

 How about that man of dark complexion
that was seen to glide down the wood-path, and
towards the house, and then silently disappeared

V commenced Mr. Wentworth, in rather
a hollow voice.

But as Mrs. Carr shook her head, and pretended
to frown, he changed his tone to a more
sprightly one, and asked Marjory in a comical
manner if she had ever heard of a .


'No, indeed returned Marjory, much amused;
i but I suppose it is a sort of ghost

1 I am rather learned on the subject, as Miss
Carr will tell you ; so I can inform you that
boggle-de-boo may be translated as " the spirit
of fear." We all have our private boggles, Miss
Deane  our skeleton in the cupboard, as you
may term it. A clergyman once gave a good
illustration of " bo." And by-the-bye, I may as
well inform you that he mentioned that Boa
is the name of the principal divinity of the
northern people (Hungarians and Ostia)  I
hope you ladies will not find my learning too
overpowering

Mrs. Carr smiled at him benevolently, and
Lilies whispered wickedly :

He is going to be ridiculous  he always
begins like that Then aloud : ' Well, Hurrell,
what about this mysterious " bo " V

302

1 Once upon a time began Hurrell solemnly,
k at a place lying to the north-east of Kendal, a
man and his son were breaking-in a mare. "Do
you think, noo," said the lad to his father, " et
meyer ill nit boggle ?" " Neyah," said the old
man, " she'll boggle in, nit she ; but we can
try her. Gang thee thee ways, and git hint a
yat  stoop, en I'll git on t' meyer, en ride her
through t' gap-stead; en just asl'sgangin' til 't,
rear thee foot, and shout 'Bo !' en if she stands
that, she'll stand out." The lad did as he was
told, and the old man rode the mare very quietly
towards the gateway. When he had approached
within a few yards, out popped the lad, with his
dirty cap over his head, and shouted "Bo!"
Away went the mare across the field, and down
fell the old man with a " loss ' (happily not
much worse for his tumble). " Gods, wile licht
o' thee, too life varmint!" said he; " too
hoes with neyah judgment at a'  too mud ha
kilt thee sadder." '

It was impossible not to laugh at Marjory's
mystified face ; she evidently comprehended
nothing, but Lilies clapped her hands applaudingly.


I call that deliriously ridiculous, but of

course it is not original. Marjory, Hurrell will
have to give you lessons in the dialect, or you
will not comprehend the raciness of his anecdotes.
You see, my dear, the moral of the tale
is, that we must always use judgment when we
want to test people or things ; as the old man
remarked, " too does with neyah judgment at
a'.'"

'Never mind, Miss Deane,' returned Mr.
Wentworth ; ' my mother is the person to enlighten
your mind on all sorts of curious customs
and superstitions prevalent in these parts, not
so very long ago. She will tell you all about
Carling Sunday, and Martingale Cherry Sunday,
and Lengthwise Plum Sunday, and the Kurn-
winning, and All Hallow E'en, and "the first of
May, that is shaking-bottle day'"

'Now, Hurrell,' observed Mrs. Carr seriously,
I do protest against all this talk to-night.
Lilies, you are very naughty to encourage him,
but I think you are just "fey" this evening,
and there is no stemming the tide of your
nonsense ; Marjory is beginning to look quite
tired.'

Lilies rose at once, but to Marjory's surprise
she turned suddenly grave.

Mother darling, I wish you had not used
that word.'

1 What word, dearest

'fey,"  you know what it means: people
are fey when they are in their highest wildest
spirits, just before something happens ; I have
read that in some book

1 Why, Lilies,' half chidingly, ' how absurd !'
but Mr. Wentworth interrupted her.

What did I tell you ?' he returned, looking
at Marjory with much solemnity ; ' after that, I
suppose you will allow somebody is superstitious
with a vengeance. I think I shall have to tell
my tale over again, Lilies, as you certainly have
not taken my lesson  " too does with neyah
judgment at a';'" at which ridiculous climax
Lilies's gravity disappeared, and her dimples
came into play.

Come, Marjory,' she said, linking her arm in
her friend's, ' we will leave those two to entertain
each other But directly they were behind
the screen, and in a short passage that seemed
lit by some distant glimmer, she said in a low
voice : ' I am afraid I am superstitious, in spite
of my disbelief in boggles or bogies of any kind.
And mother and Hurrell often laugh at me, but I

do hate that word "fey;" it always makes me
shiver, and I think I have felt happier than
usual to-night.'

Dear Lilies,' returned Marjory, with some
emotion, 'I hope you will always be happy ; no
one more deserves to be

Thanks, dear,' she replied, wondering a
little why Marjory's voice shook so. ' Now,
look here  this is the dining-room ; it is rather
small and dull in the daytime, but just now,
with a bright fire, and those white china lamps,
it looks snug enough. Barry's sitting-room, or
study, as the poor boy calls it, leads out of it.
The door is hidden by that Chinese screen ; we
have screens in nearly every room, because of
the draughts in winter. Now, Marjory, just peep
in my dear conservatory ; it is not large, but so
pretty, and in this faint light it is really quite
picturesque

She opened a glass-door as she spoke, at the
end of the narrow passage, and Marjory immediately
felt a rush of scented warm air.
The uncertain light just penetrated through the
glass roof and showed her dark climbing plants
round slender pillars, and a background of
colourless flowers. There was a soft trickle of a

miniature fountain, and she could see bamboo -
seats and a little round table.

Mother sits here sometimes in the winter,
when I am hard at work among the ferns and
plants. It is so warm, and light, and pleasant.
"When I have much to do, Harrel often comes
over to help me

Mr. Wentworth seems very nice and amusing,'
hazarded Marjory, feeling she was treading
on delicate ground.

Oh yes, he is amusing enough sometimes
answered Lilies without a moment's hesitation.
He is so glad to get us back that he is in
capital spirits to-night. You must go over
with me tomorrow to see his mother. She
would never forgive me if I missed a day on
first coming home. She is nice too, and I am
sure you will say so ; but she is rather old-fashioned,
and just a little prim and precise. 'It
is funny, but some married people are rather
old-maidish/

They had reached the top of the staircase by
this time, and Lilies interrupted herself to point
out the different rooms as they passed them.

1 That is Barry's room, and Fleming sleeps in
the dressing-room ; this is mother's, and mine

is next to it  we have a door of communication
between our rooms. Yours is just opposite,
across the passage. I would not let mother
put you into the big spare room. This is so
much cosier, and you are nearer us both.'

1 It was kind of you to think of that returned
Marjory gratefully, as they entered the
pleasant room, rosy with firelight. It was
certainly not large, but was furnished very
prettily : a low couch stood by the fire on one
side, and an easy-chair and table on the other ;
cretonne curtains hung over the window. As
Marjory was about to draw them aside, Lilies
caught her hand.

Undraw them w T hen the morning comes
she said, with a little laugh. ' Your window is
just over the bay, and so you have the same
prospect and look-out on the Mavis woods. It
is a little gloomy at night, as you say, and
especially mysterious when the moon sets
behind the wood, and all sorts of shadows seem
to hide among the trees. Now, Marjory, we
have wasted so much time in Cosy Nook  I
always do, you know  that w r e shall have
barely time to dress for supper ; it is too late to
call it dinner. I will send Emma to help you ;

you will find her very useful. Ellis always
waits on us. Now, good-bye for the present.
I dare say you are tired to death of my
chattering.' And with a hasty kiss Lilies
ran out of the room.

THE SEAT IN THE WOOD.

CURIOUS feeling came over Marjory
as Lilies closed the door  a sudden
weariness and sensation of giddiness.

She had sustained her part well since her
entrance into the house more than an hour
ago  had talked and laughed with the others
without much conscious effort  but all at once
her strength seemed to forsake her.

When Emma, the rosy-cheeked housemaid,
came to volunteer her services, she found Miss
Deane kneeling beside her trunk, with a face as
colourless as her own apron, as she informed
the housekeeper afterwards, and complaining of
giddiness.

If I were you, miss observed Emma good-naturedly,
' I would just put myself on that

sofa, and leave me to do the unpacking. It is
the long journey  it often turns folks giddy
unless they are used to it. I will bring you
some supper and willing, miss, if you don't feel
fit to go down again to-night.'

Will they not think it strange ?' asked Marjory
faintly ; her head was beginning to throb,
and she felt as though any more exertion were
impossible.

Folks always please themselves at Mavis-banks
replied Emma, in a voice of cheerful
assurance ; ' I have often heard the mistress
call it Liberty Hall. But there, I will ask
Miss Lilies, and she will soon set your mind at
rest.'

And without waiting for permission, Emma
tripped away; and in a few minutes Lilies came
in with a very remorseful face.

Oh, Marjory, I am so sorry !' she began.
It was all my foolish chatter, and making
Hurrell talk so, that has tired you. Of course,
you poor dear, you have had all that journey
from Moorbridge, while we were comfortably
breakfasting at St. Pancreas Hotel ; and I ought
to have remembered that, and have taken you
straight to your room to rest.'

Oh, never mind  if you will only excuse
me coming down this evening returned Marjory.


Oh, but I do mind!' persisted Lilies.
'Mother will scold me, and I deserve it. Now,
dear, if you will take my advice, you will just
go to bed, and leave Emma to do everything
for you. A good night's rest will set you up
And as Marjory promised to follow these
injunctions faithfully, Lilies consented to leave
her.

It was impossible for her to do justice to the
tempting supper that Emma presently brought
to her ; but the glass of champagne seemed to
revive her strangely. Emma, who certainly
had a voluble tongue, as well as brisk, capable
hands, informed her that ' Mr. Wentworth had
insisted that the mistress should send Fleming
to the cellar for some champagne ; and he had
made Miss Lilies have some too. Miss Deane
was to drink every drop  that was his message
it would soon cure her headache, and send
her to sleep.' And, to Marjory's surprise, it
certainly had this effect ; for, instead of lying-awake
for hours, revolving all sorts of dismal
thoughts, no sooner had she laid her tired head

on the lavender scented pillows, than she fell
into a sound sleep.

She did not even wake when, some two hours
later, a tall figure in a grey wrapper stole
softly into her room, and looked at her by the
light of the dying fire ; nor did she hear the
brief conversation outside her door.

1 She is fast asleep, Lilies, and I expect will
rest until morning. She was just tired out,
poor child ! we must take more care of her.
She looks very pretty asleep, and her hair is
magnificent ; but I wonder why her face seems
to remind me of some one  it is so strange
when one cannot trace a resemblance.'

How often you have said that, mother, since
you first knew Marjory ! You will soon get as
fond of her as I am. Hurrell thinks her very
handsome, but not his style. I am sure she
was very merry with us in Cosy Nook, and yet
he will have it that she looks unhappy

I have often thought so too. No, of course she
is not Hurrell's style  his head is too full of
somebody else. Why do you blush, darling ?
Poor Hurrell, I pity him from my heart ! I
wonder he can care so for an ungrateful girl ;
but now we are both too tired to talk any

longer. Come into my room, dearest, and we
will read our chapter together.'

Marjory, who was young and healthy, woke
early the next morning, feeling rested and refreshed
by her long sleep. For a moment her
strange surroundings puzzled her, for she had
fancied herself in her own room at Muriel's
End ; but as full consciousness returned, she
sprang from the bed and andrew the curtains,
feeling the semi-darkness and closeness of the
room intolerable. As she did so, a low exclamation
burst from her lips.

The sun was shining; blackbirds and thrushes
were hopping across the dewy lawn ; the twittering
of innumerable birds sounded from the
woods, that no longer looked dark and gloomy
in the fresh morning light. From her window
she could see plainly a narrow steep path with
a bench placed under the trees. She longed to
find her way to it  it looked so shady and
inviting. She would dress herself as quickly
as possible and go out. She would have at
least an hour to herself before the nine
o'clock breakfast. ' I wish I could paint
those spring tints,' she thought regretfully, asher
eyes wandered over the hillside with its

wealth of foliage, and listened to the faint
soughing as the wind rippled the myriad of
leaves. ' If Nellie were here, she would sketch
from morning till night. But I am no artist,
as Anne says. Lilies paints  she told me so 
and she used to make such pretty sketches at
YThitecliffe. I wish I had not been so idle
while I was young. Anne was not half strict
enough with me.'

Emma's eyes grew round with surprise when
she entered with the little tea-tray and can of
hot water, and found Miss Deane sitting by the
window, fully dressed.

'You must be rested, to be sure, miss,' she
observed, with an admiring glance at Marjory's
morning-dress. ' It is only just eight, and
Miss Lilies is not awake yet ; and Mr. Barry
has had a poor night, and has gone off to sleep.
Fleming says it w T ill be a good hour or more
before breakfast, so you will be glad of your
tea,' placing it on a little round table at Marjory's
side.

Marjory thanked her, and Emma withdrew.
But when she had finished her cup of tea, she
determined to obey her impulse, and find out
the woodland path. There is something alluring

iii wandering alone in fresh places before one's
world seems fully awake. Marjory felt as
though she and the birds had it all to themselves,
as she crossed the wet grass and
entered the wood. Mavisbank looked more
picturesque from this side than from any
other. One or two bay-windows had been
thrown out, and the conservatory had been built,
and the entire back of the house was covered
with Virginian creeper. Evidently the woods
sheltered it on this side, and it was less bleak
and exposed than in the front.

It would make a lovely sketch from here,'
thought Marjory ; ' I must ask Lilies to take
one for me ; the front of the house is rather
bare.'

And then she turned, and went slowly up the
path, pausing every now and then to examine
the hooded ferns that nestled at the tree-roots,
or to hunt for the first tiny primroses that were
beginning to show themselves. In another
week or two, Lilies had told her, the woods
would be covered with them ; and already they
were opening their pale yellow buds in sheltered
nooks.

As Marjory came up to the bench, she

VOL. II. 31

thought she heard the sound of knocking or
hammering a little higher up. Perhaps some
woodman was at work felling trees or cutting
down the brushwood, which certainly grew a
little too thick in some parts ; and half incuriosity
she tracked the sound  human labour
always possessing an interest to her.

She came presently to a little dell, an open
space carpeted with springy moss, with a tiny
stream running through it, flowing over smooth
grey boulders which checked it every now and
then, forming miniature cascades and small
transparent pools, with tiny glittering pebbles
at the bottom. An old mossy log spanned the
rivulet at one part ; and on the banks, later
on, hundreds of ferns would wave their cool
green fronds, with broad primrose leaves growing
among them, and here and there the modest
wood-violet.

It was such a lovely little nook, but its
silent peacefulness was already invaded. A
man in a dark blue jersey was hammering
noisily on a rustic seat he was evidently
making. His back was turned towards Marjory,
and he was singing, at the top of a fine clear
voice, a curious song that she had once heard.

4 If this be vanity  hip, hip, hurrah !' he sang.
What a strange song for a woodman, or carpenter
! but as this thought passed through her
rind, a large liver-coloured collie, who had
been curled up on his coat, suddenly sprang up
with a bark, and then began to wag its tail ;
and as Marjory said ' Lassie!' in a tone
of astonishment, her master turned round,
with a look of confusion in his good-natured
face.

Mr. Wentworth ! I had no idea it was you ;
but of course I recognised Lassie. Did you
sleep at Mavisbank last night, and what are
you doing there V

I suppose you are surprised to see me he
said, laughing. ' I am sorry I cannot shake
hands with you; but just look at my disreputable
paws ! No, I did not sleep here. I left my
mare at the bottom of the hill. I hope you are
more rested, Miss Deane. You are not quite
such an early riser as I am ; but you are out
betimes

'You have ridden over from Thorpe!' she
said, with a little staccato in her voice.

1 Yes ; and have had two hours' hard work
besides. I am no mean carpenter, I can tell

312

you, Miss Deane. Don't you think I have
made a tidy job of this seat ?'

Oh yes ; it is beautiful ! And you have
chosen just the right place for it. And what
have you carved at the back ?'

Mr. Wentworth flushed a little as she bent
over to read the inscription that he had cut out
in the wood  ' For Lilies,' it said ; and Marjory
coloured up with quick sympathy.

It is a surprise,' he returned, driving in a
long nail as he spoke. ' We have had so much
rain, or I should have finished it a week ago.
You have stolen a march on me, but you must
not betray me,' trying to speak carelessly.

1 It is a kind thought. Lilies will be so
pleased,' she answered, wishful to set him at his
ease, for it was annoying for him that a stranger
should come and spy upon him in this way.
I think you have done it very cleverly, and it
looks most comfortable.'

It is finished now. Will you try it, Miss
Deane ?'

But Marjory shook her head. She knew
better than that.

Lilies must be the first,' she said, smiling.
But how tired and hungry you must be, Mr.

Wentworth ! Surely you mean to breakfast at
Mavisbank ?'

1 Not this morning, thank you. My mother
will be waiting for me, and I am too dutiful a
son to disappoint her. By-the-bye, I hear that
we are to meet later on at Headlands, but that
will not be until the afternoon. Mind you decoy
Miss Carr here, for she has set her heart on
having a seat placed in the dell, and I know
she will be pleased. Now, Lassie, old girl, give
me my coat and let us go in search of Bay.
Can you find your way back to Mavisbank,
Miss Deane, or shall I show you your bearings V
But as Marjory smilingly declined his escort,
he wished her a cordial good-bye, and shouldering
his tools, strode off with Lassie at his heels,
whistling as merrily as a blackbird.

1 A fine manly fellow,' she said to herself.
She is right, and he is worthy of Lilies. What
trouble he must have taken ! And the inscription
is so beautifully carved in Old English letters,
i( For Lilies." She must be hard to please
indeed, if such an attention fails to touch
her!'

1 Marjory, Marjory !' exclaimed Lilies's voice
at this minute ; and there was the girl running

to meet her, with the sunshine falling on her
uncovered hair. ' Oh, you naughty child !
Emma saw you go in this direction, hut I
never thought you would wander so far

You will catch cold, Lilies ! You see, I
have my hat and jacket. I am not used to your
climate yet. It was so charming in the wood, I
went on and lost myself. I wonder you could
find me

I thought I heard voices, hut I must have
been mistaken she returned, in a puzzled tone.
1 1 could have declared I heard Lassie's hark.

Oh, Marjory ' suddenly breaking off as

she caught sight of the pretty rustic seat ;
and then, without another word, she went upto
it.

Marjory took no notice. She stooped and
gathered a violet, and then went leisurely
down by the stream, turning her back upon
Lilies as she stood before the seat, as though
transfixed. She hummed a little song aloud
as the other girl at last joined her. A swift
sidelong glance showed her that there were tears
in Lilies's eyes, but Marjory took no notice.
She was looking straight before her, and singing
softly a stanza that haunted her.

" ' All is vanity, vanity,'
A wise man said to me.
I pressed my true love's yielding hand,
And answered frank and free." '

'Marjory!' exclaimed Lilies, in an astonished
voice, ' where have you heard that song ?'

1 " If this be vanity, who'd be wise ?" ' chanted
Mars tory, rather more loudly. ' ' 'Vanity let it be !" '

Marjory !' pouted Lilies, ' are you crazy this
morning ? That is Hurrell's song. I never heard
anyone else sing it.'

1 To be sure,' returned the girl, quite unmoved
; ' and he sings it well, too  "If this be
vanity  hip, hip, hurrah!"  I assure you; with
a fine echo, it sounded well all down the hillside.'

1 Do you mean that Hurrell has been here V
asked Lilies, a little breathlessly. ' Was that
the meaning of the voices I heard ? How stupid
I am ! Of course it was Lassie's bark ; and
what have you done with the poor fellow ?
and why did you not bring him back to breakfast
?'

My dear, what a string of questions ! I think
I shall ask some in my turn. Are you not
charmed with that rustic seat ? and are not those
quaint Old English characters lovely ? " For,

Lilies." I will never speak against the nineteenth-century
young men again ; or, if I do, I will
tell everyone that there are exceptions ; that I
have seen with my own eyes a young man who
certainly sings well, and can whistle like a blackbird,
working like a carpenter before the world

was awake, to surprise ' Marjory checked

herself abruptly ; she was going to say ' his
lady-love,' but she substituted ' a friend,' which
sounded tame  only Lilies understood her,
and her fair face was instantly suffused with a
deep blush.

1 Oh, Marjory, I wish you would not tease so !
just tell me seriously what you really saw

My dear, I saw there would be hundreds of
ferns presently in your mossy dell, only they
were all curled up in their rusty old hoods, like
begging friars, all a-cold ; and I saw thousands
of primrose leaves and one or two tiny primroses,
like yellow eyes in the moss, and a violet ;' and,
as Lilies uttered a pettish * Pshaw!'  Oh, I
forgot. There was a good-looking fellow, a
woodman, in a dark blue blouse or jersey, and a
collie curled up on his coat, and he was singing,
"If this be vanity  hip, hip, hurrah!  vanity
let it be!" ' but, instead of listening any more,

Lilies suddenly started from her side, and was
running over the grass towards the house like a
lapwing ; and Marjory, looking all at once as
grave as a judge, followed her demurely.

It was a surprise to Marjory to find that
breakfast was laid in Cosy Nook, but she heard
afterwards that only luncheon and dinner were
served in the dining-room.

The old hall looked as quaint and comfortable
as ever in the morning light. A large fire blazed
in the old-fashioned grate, which looked as though
it would have held a quarter of a ton of coals.
A beautiful tiger-skin lay before it, and a Turkey
carpet filled up the centre of the dark oak floor.
The front door stood open, and, as Marjory took
her place at the round table, she could look
across the lawn and beyond it at St. Kilda's
Castle, with the sun shining through its ivy-mantled
archway and ruined towers.

Mrs. Carr had greeted Marjory kindly, and
had asked if she were rested ; and then, as Lilies
poured out the coffee, and assisted Fleming to
prepare a breakfast-tray for Barry, she sat
opening her business letters and papers. She
looked a little grave and preoccupied over them,
and took no part in the conversation that w T as

carried on between the girls, until Lilies roused
her gently.

i Mother dear, I know you will be dreadfully
busy this morning, and I suppose some of the
tenants will be up by-and-by, so I will take
Marjory out; and, after luncheon, we are going
over to Eedlands/

1 Yes, dearest returned Mrs. Carr quietly, ' I
think that will be best. Barry will be down
here presently, and we shall have some business
settle together. I expect we shall have a
relay of visitors until luncheon. Mr. Moore will
certainly call.'

Then you shall be left to hold your court
in peace, like a dignified chatelaine returned
Lilies, kissing her hand. ' Would not my
mother have made a splendid chatelaine of some
old feudal castle in the middle ages, Marjory ?
I can fancy her, when the portcullis was raised,
and the wounded knights were brought in, coming
down the courtyard with her damsels behind her,
and her keys jingling from her girdle, ready to
bind up wounds, or reward the victor, or '

Nonsense, you madcap !' returned Mrs. Carp
'I should not have done for the
middle ages at all. If historians are correct, the

mediaeval lady spent her day in spinning and
working tapestry and culling herbs for simples.
They saw the world through a loophole in their
tower. That sort of existence would not suit my
active mind at all

1 But you would have looked so lovely in a
hood and wimple returned Lilies playfully.
Marjory, I am half inclined to put you in the
cushioned recess in that bay-window  you would
know then how the Mavisbank courts are
held. Mother will sit in that high-backed
chair looking like a queen ; and the farmers 
her tenants, you know, or rather Barry's  will
come up, and pull dirty bank-notes out of their
pockets ; and mother will talk to them about
their families and farms. And some of the
answers would astonish you, especially if the
cottagers came up. They will tell mother
that " life Geordie has a sir heed," or " they're
start amyast, because Short-horn gives life
milk;" or "their fence is broken, and titter it's
dune an better ;" or " it is gradely weather ;" or
"it keeps wandering and raining, and they have
left the bit lad to sit i'th' hood"  and so on.'

Mrs. Can shook her head with an indulgent
smile.

You are just like a little purling brook,
Lilies. Marjory will wonder at your nonsense


Marjory can talk nonsense herself,' returned
Lilies, with a sudden flash from her hazel eyes.
She is only well-behaved before you, mother.
Well, I see no one appreciates my wit, so I will
run up to Barry, and then Marjory shall be
introduced to St. Kilda's.' And so saying,
Lilies disappeared behind the Japanese screen,
and they could hear her singing in the distance,
If this be vanity  hip, hip, hurrah !  vanity
let it be!'

1 DR. MARGARET Aisle.'

iS she not a darling!' observed Mrs.
Carr fondly, as she rose from the
table ; but as she looked up at Marjory,
she was startled at the look of pain in the
girl's eyes  they were fixed on her so strangely,,
she thought.

1 1 do not wonder that you love her so dearly
returned Marjory, in a set hard voice ; ' she is
so very winning

1 hope I do not love her too much,' was
the low answer. 'We are to keep ourselves
from idols, Marjory  is not that what our Bible
teaches us ? Sometimes I fear I am too much
wrapped up in my children. I cannot imagine
any happiness without them. Barry is like me,
they say ; but Lilies takes after her father  she

has her father's eyes. They are very uncommon,
those soft golden-hazel eyes, and yon
seldom see them Avitli that fair hair. Her
father had fair hair too.'

So had Mrs. Chard's husband returned
Marjory shortly. The words leapt out without
her will. She stopped in some confusion as
soon as she had uttered them.

Robert Deane ! You mean your father,
clear, do you not ?' in a surprised tone. ' Yes,
it was strange he was so like my Philip, but
only in colouring. My husband was far handsomer.
I wonder whether you will let me give
you a hint, Marjory ? I have not known jou
long, my dear, but I have grown very fond of
you  all Lilies's friends are mine too. But
there seems such sympathy between us.'

You may speak to me as though I were
your own daughter,' returned Marjory, in a low,
a very low voice ; but her eyes were hidden
under their long lashes.

 Thank you, my dear. Then I will venture
to give you this hint : Why do you call your
mother Mrs. Chard ? Poor Miriam, I know she
has her faults, but her child should not disown
her. I never hear you call her mother.'

A dark flush rose to the girl's face.

I cannot tell you the reason,' she almost
whispered. ' Please do not speak of her to arne.
Let me forget her existence !'

1 Marjory,' in a shocked voice, ' my child 
do you know what you are saying ? Forget
your mother's existence V

Marjory raised her eyes and fixed them on
Mrs. Carr's face. Their look of agony haunted
her long afterwards. They were like the eyes
of some tortured animal, she thought, that
longed to tell the source of its pain.

It was too much for Mrs. Carr's soft heart,
and she drew the girl towards her gently, and
kissed her on her forehead.

Don't look so, Marjory, my dear. "What
pains you ? Can I help you in anything ?
Poor Miriam ! Perhaps you have some reason.
I am sure yours is not a hard nature.'

'If it were I should suffer less,' returned
Marjory passionately.  Dear Mrs. Carr, do
not condemn me. If you knew all you would
hold me guiltless. I am not in fault. Indeed,
it is my misfortune that fate has linked us
together  her and me. You would pity me if
you knew all.'

Will you tell me, clear ?'
.eyes, one clay  some clay I will tell you, but
not now,' she returned, in the same agitated
voice. ' Try to love me if you can ; no one
requires love more. Hush ! there is Lilies. Let
me go, or she will see something is the matter ;'
and Marjory walked quickly to the open door,
and went across the lawn, hoping the spring air
would cool her burning face. If Lilies could see
her shaking hands, and knew how her heart was
beating, what would she think ? But Mrs. Carr,
with quiet tact, detained the girl for some
minutes beside her.

'Lilies,' she said, when she had finished talking
over some domestic arrangement, ' I think
your friend Hurrell was right. I am sure
Marjory has some secret cause for unhappiness

'Mother!' burst out Lilies, 'what can make
you think so ? Marjory has been as merry as
possible this morning ; she is so full of fun and
spirits. It is only with you that she is sometimes
a little grave, and yet I know she is fond
of you.'

Then she has not confided in you, Lilies ?'

No,' in a pondering tone. ' She once told
me that she did not love her mother, and

certainly Marjory cannot well be proud of poor
Miriam. Marjory is not very good to her, I
know ; but she is always talking about her
adopted mother, Miss Frere, and that nice Mr.
Frere. I do not think Marjory is so much to be
pitied, after all. I fancy that Miss Frere must
be a sweet woman

'You are so innocent, my darling returned
Mrs. Carr, a little sadly. ' Marjory knows more
of life than you. I am of Hurrell's opinion,
that, young as she is, she has experienced some
great sorrow. Poor child, she is very affectionate.
We must be kind to her, and do all we
can to make her happy.'

Oh yes,' returned Lilies cheerfully. 'I
know few girls are so happy as I am, but then
they have not got my mother.'

'Nor Hurrell either returned Mrs. Carr, a
little mischievously ; but her manner changed
into pleased attention as Lilies whispered the
little secret of the morning  how she had found
Marjory in the dell, and the rustic seat with the
carved inscription, ' For Lilies.'

1 Was it not good of him, mother ?' she
finished, with a bright, varying blush.

So good that I think Hurrell ought to have

vol. 11. 32

his reward,' was the meaning answer, which had
the effect of sending Lilies to the door to look
for Marjory. And in another ten minutes the
two girls were walking down the main street of
St. Kilda, talking to each other as usual ; only
Marjory's face w T as still flushed, and her brown
eyes had a misty look in them.

1 Now, Marjory,' began Lilies, ' I always told
you St. Kilda is very bleak and ugly, so you
will not expect to see a pretty village, will you ?'

Marjory owned that Lilies had given her a
true description as she looked down the long,
straggling street, with grey houses on either
side in dull uniform monotony, only broken by a
few meagre-looking shops, and the portico of the
Black Bull Inn ; and one house, with a bay-window,
looking rather more cheerful than the
others, with 'Dr. Ainslie' written on the brass
plate.

Do you mind if w r e go in here for a few
minutes ?' asked Lilies. ' I want to speak to
Margaret Ainslie. I have been matching some
w r fools for her in London ;' and as Marjory had
no objection to make to this reasonable request,
Lilies knocked somewhat loudly.

The maid asked them into a cosy parlour looking

out on the street. A Greek Testament, with
n dictionary beside it, lay open on the table ;
n medical treatise and some writing materials
and a knitting-basket, out of which a dark-blue
stocking protruded, give an impression of cultivated
industry. But before Marjory could do
more than notice all these details, a tall,
vigorous-looking young woman, with dark hair
and spectacles, made her appearance, and at
once kissed Lilies, and shook hands cordially
with Marjory.

My dear Lilies, you are a sight for sore
-eyes !' she said, looking at the girl affectionately.
4 1 knew something pleasant had happened the
moment I opened my eyes this morning ; and
when I got up, sure enough there was the smoke
curling up from Cosy Nook, and I could picture
jon all sitting there at breakfast

'I knew you would be glad to get us back,'
returned Lilies, who was evidently pleased with
her welcome. ' As for myself, I have been
singing u Home, sweet Home " all the morning.
Have I not, Marjory ?' but she looked a little
taken aback when Marjory replied demurely :

'I thought "all was vanity" this morning,
Lilies.'

322

One cannot remember all the songs one
hears,' she said, a little pettishly. 'You are a
provoking girl ; you know you are. Margaret,
this is a great friend of mine, only she behaves
badly sometimes ; but then she has not had
my bringing up. Now, I want you both to
know each other. Margaret is terribly learned,
Marjory. She reads Greek, and has studied
physic, and can doctor the poor people as well
as Dr. Ainslie.'

For shame, Lilies ! How can you expect
anyone to believe you if you exaggerate so
abominably ? Miss Deane, I hope you will not
credit all she says about me. Because I like to
dabble a little in things women generally eschew,
there is no reason why I should be held up asa
strong-minded creature. I am not a female
doctor, though I do learn a little from my father.
I have a passion for making myself useful, and
a little medical knowledge goes a long way in
these benighted parts.'

Margaret, how dare you prevaricate, you
wicked woman, when you know you can read
Latin and Greek quite fluently ! Why, Marjory,
she teaches the Vicar's little boys, Raymond and
Bertram.'

I do not deny the fact,' with a* smile that
lighted up the plain, sensible face, and made it
attractive. ' I have had a boy's education, as
you know. I am sorry if I appear egotistical,
Miss Deane, but this naughty girl has put me
on my defence. My father always had peculiar
notions on the subject of female education. He
thinks girls are flimsy creatures, but that their
faults are owing merely to the false training
they receive. You are the one exception in his
eyes, Lilies.'

'Except Katie Stallard.'

'Oh, I forgot that little person returned
Miss Ainslie good-humouredly. ' He certainly
tolerates her, but she gets lectured sometimes.
I found her half crying one day because my
father had been scolding her for being a governess
and not knowing Latin. She takes lessons from
me regularly now three times a week

1 Poor Margaret ! how busy you must be !'
observed Lilies, in a pitying voice.

1 Margaret would be more to be pitied if she
had not plenty of hard work. But, Lilies, you
have twice interrupted me, and I wanted to tell
Miss Deane how my father taught me. My poor
mother was not allowed a voice in the matter of

my education. I never had a thimble on until
I was twelve. Arithmetic, algebra, Latin, and
Greek, with history and geography thrown in,
were my only studies ; botany and anatomy
followed. I have taught myself to read French
during the last few years, and now Miss Stallard
helps me with the pronunciation and grammar.
I do not know a note of music. We have no
instrument in the house, but I think I should
have liked it. I am rather a poor gentlewoman,
as you may imagine ; but I am not too proud
to learn, and Mrs. Moore gives me lessons in
mending when I go to the Vicarage. After my
mother's death I learnt to cook and manage the
house, as we have only one servant, and though
my father always grumbles when he sees me in
the kitchen, his grumbling means nothing

Do you live here alone with your father V
asked Marjory, who was beginning to feel some
interest in this intelligent woman.

'Yes, but we are never dull,' was the bright
answer.  I dare say, being a stranger, you
think St. Kilda is not a lively place. With the
exception of the Carrs and Moores, we have no
educated neighbours. My friends are all of the
lower class. You need not look shocked, Lilies ;

I am really very fond of my poor neighbours. I
do not think I was made for society ; I need it
so little.'

1 Mrs. Wentworth is always complaining that
she sees so little of you pouted Lilies.

A slight change was perceptible in Miss
Ainslie's manner, and there was a moment's
hesitation before she answered, in rather a constrained
voice :

She is very good, and you know I am fond
of Mrs. Wentworth, but my time is so fully
occupied. If you are going to the Vicarage,
Lilies, would you kindly give Katie a message
from me ? Mrs. Green, our schoolmistress, is
so ill that I have promised to go down this
afternoon and give the object lesson ; and after
that I must look after my patient, George Sparkles.
He had a broken head yesterday, and, as my
father was not to be found, I plastered it up for

him, and ' But here Lilies 's clear, silvery

laugh interrupted her.

Dr. Margaret Ainslie. It sounds well, does
it not, Marjory ?'

No, my dear, no,' was the placid answer ;

I I have no ambition of that sort. If it were
not for my father, I should not object to be trained

for a medical missionary for Zenana work ; but
as long as he lives I should never dream of such
a thing. There is his step outside. I must call
him in, or he would never forgive me. Lilies is
a privileged person in the Ainslie household, I
assure you, Miss Deane.'

Dr. Ainslie was the counterpart of his
daughter, Marjory thought. He was tall and
sturdy-looking, had the same dark hair and
spectacles, the same sensible, plain face, and
he had the same sweet smile that irradiated
Margaret's face so pleasantly. Marjory thought
she liked the daughter best. She had a fancy
the doctor could be masterful, and perhaps
obstinate ; but it was easy to see how fond they
were of each other.

Well, Miss Lilies, so you've come back.
Some folks, not ten miles off, will be vastly
pleased, I dare say.'

1 Margaret was very pleased to see me, Dr.
Ainslie,' she returned, blushing under his keen
glance.

Oh, Maggie  I was not meaning her,' he
replied mischievously ; ' she always makes a
fuss over people. I thought our young squire
from Thorpe was driving rather near the Wharton

Station last evening. They are a fine
couple, the squire and his collie. He has a
handsome mare, too, in his dog-carts

4 Father, you must not let Lilies hinder you,'
observed his daughter rather hurriedly. * Joe
Ballater is worse ; his father came down again
this morning

1 Aye, "life is a stage," as Will Shakespeare
says ; and we doctors see most of the entrances
and exits of the actors. So Joe is worse, is he ?
Well, God have mercy on his soul !  that is what
I always say, when a fine young fellow like that
takes to evil courses, and fights the devil in
delirium tremens  it is not going out of life in a
trim, orderly fashion. Well, well ! I must say
adieu, young ladies : I am going up to the house
by-and-by to look after Mr. Barry

I think I shall like Miss Ainslie,' observed
Marjory, when the two girls found themselves
alone. ' I cannot quite make out her age. I
should say she is about thirty

1 You are wrong ! Margaret is not quite severance
twenty, but her sober, middle-aged life ages
her. You will not think her plain next time
you see her ; her face is one that will grow
on you. Mother and I are very fond of her.

Mother always says she is such a noble, large-hearted
woman. And so she is ! You have no
idea, Marjory, how proud Dr. Ainslie is of her,
and the blessing she is to the place.'

She seems to lead a very useful, self-denying
life

1 You would say so if you had any idea of
what she gets through in a day. No wonder
she has no time for her richer neighbours, and
thinks she has no vocation for society  though
that is all rubbish. A cultivated intellectual
woman such as she is would do credit to
any society. I know Hurrell and Mrs. Wentworth
think most highly of her.'

1 I am afraid she will look down upon me
observed Marjory disconsolately. ' I waste my
time dreadfully  as Anne says, I have no
method. We girls misuse our talents, and let
them rust from sheer idleness. I know I ought
to study more.'

1 Let us make resolutions, as Barry and I
used to say when we were little. The only
thing is, I never can make my resolutions last a
week. Sometimes I am dreadfully virtuous,
and get up early and plan out the day, but
some one generally contrives to upset it. If it

is not Barry, it is mother. Some one is always
wanting me

1 That is not my excuse,' returned Marjory
truthfully. ' Anne is so good and unselfish that
she never disturbs me for anything. She will
tire herself out rather than ask me to do anything
for her when I am practising or reading.
Then she sets me such an admirable example of
what she calls minor morals, or thrift in time.
She hates wasting a minute. She manages the
household, and gardens a good deal, and has a,
district, and attends the mothers' meetings ; and
yet she does quantities of the loveliest needlework,
and always finds time to do anything
for us.'

I want to know your Miss Anne dreadfully.
I am afraid she will beat my Margaret Ainslie.'

1 Oh, they are so different ! Anne is very
clever in her way, and says witty piquant things,
but she is also softness and gentleness itself;
she is such a tiny creature, and has such a
beautiful face, everyone loves and admires her.
How can they help it V finished Marjory, with
a sudden break in her voice.

She must be very nice. I must go to
Muriel's End one day and see her. Now this is

the Vicarage, Marjory. But we must first visit
the church. This is the only pretty snug corner
in St. Hilda. The church is certainly not
beautiful, but it has been restored ; and the
new pews are comfortable. I shall only stay a
few minutes with Mrs. Moore, as I must show
you the Castle before luncheon.'

1 I DISLIKE LIGHT EYELASHES.'

THINK it must be dreadfully cold
and bleak here in winter,' was Marjory's
observation when they had
reconnoitred the church, and were descending
the flight of stone steps that led from the
churchyard to the Vicarage.

Well, I must allow that,' was Lilies's reluctant
answer ; ' Dr. Ainslie thinks it is too
exposed and bracing for Barry, and there is
some talk of our all going to Mentioned or Nice
next winter. I hope he will not talk mother
into doing it ; ugly and bleak as it is, I do
love St. Kilda, and the scenery all round is so
lovely.'

 You have friends that you do not like to
leave ?' asked Marjory quietly.

Oh, of course; one has always friends if one
is not a hermit was the impatient answer ; but
Lilies did not volunteer the statement to Marjory
that the Wentworth might possibly join
them if they went abroad. There had been
much talk on the subject, but nothing was to
be decided until next October. Barry himself
was not in favour of the plan ; he had a certain
hermit-like preference for the lonely house with
its dark background of woods ; and he thought,
like most invalids, that the fatigue of travelling
counterbalanced the delights of foreign scenery
<md perpetual sunshine. But, as Mr. Wentworth
was wont to observe, ' one must not heed
a sick lad's whimsies.'

The Vicarage is very comfortable inside, but
you must not be over-critical about its tidiness,'
observed Lilies, as they came in view of the
windows.

There was a long lawn fitted up with tennis-nets
at the side of the house, and the door
stood open, so that visitors could see the long
roomy passage with its numerous hats, coats, and
umbrellas. Marjory, who knew there were thirteen
children of all sizes in the Vicarage, was
nut at all disposed to be critical ; she rather

expected to find the mistress of the household a
careworn woman, and was not a little surprised
when a thin, active-looking person, with a
bustling manner and a sharp voice, but not at
all old, with rather handsome features, came
into the drawing-room. She w r as well-dressed
too, though Marjory, of course, could not know
that she had been enveloped all the morning ina
holland bib-apron, with her merino sleeves
tucked well up to her shapely elbows.

1 So you are back, child,' she observed briskly,
and her dark eyes glanced with sharp scrutiny
at Marjory ; ' and how are your mother and
Barry ? Jonathan declared you had come back,
for he saw the empty carriage coming out of the
gate of Mavisbank ; but the stupid fellow had
not the wit to ask the coachman.'

Yes, we arrived last night. This is my
friend, Miss Deane. I have just been showing
her the church ; and, of course, the Vicarage
comes next.'

1 I hope you will like St. Kilda,' observed
Mrs. Moore politely, turning to Marjory. ' We
cannot boast of much society here, but we have
plenty of nice neighbours at Thorpe. I suppose,
Lilies '  with another needle-like glance  ' that

you will soon introduce Miss Deane to Red-lands
?'

Oh yes returned Lilies carelessly, but her
colour rose a little ; ' Mrs. "Wentworth is very
punctilious ; she would never forgive me if I did
not pay her a formal call the day after our arrival.
And how are all your belongings, Mrs. Moore 
turning the subject rather quickly. ' Is the
Vicar's rheumatism better ? and are all the
children and Katie well ?'

Lilies knew what she was about when she
put this seemingly harmless question ; the next
minute Mrs. Moore launched into a brisk resume
of the last few weeks  evidently her domestic
budget was full. Marjory soon became hopelessly
confused over the multitudinous details
some childish epidemic had evidently run its
course through the Vicarage.

1 Yes, indeed,' observed Mrs. Moore in her
rapid discursive way. ' We may be thankful
we have Miss Stallard ; she is a perfect treasure.
Gerard always says so ; and the children are
so good with her. Alick would not take his
medicine from anyone else, and aubrey used to
cry for her.'

Were they all ill at once, Mrs. Moore V

asked Lilies, in a horrified voice ; ' all thirteen
of them !'

Oh dear no ! the elder ones got well before
the little ones took it. Ambrose and Julius
must have brought it from school, I think.
Edith and Helena came next on the sick-list,
and then Kenneth and Bertram followed ; and
after that Cora and Bessie. Alick was the
worst, and poor Aubrey ; the twins had it more
lightly, and baby never stayed in her cot a
single day

And you nursed them all V in a wondering
voice. ' I wonder you were not ill yourself,
Mrs. Moore, with fatigue and worry.'

1 Busy people have no time to be ill,' returned
Mrs. Moore, in a gravely admonishing voice.
I never was one to give way ; and I had
nurse and Miss Stallard to help me. Alick
was very ill, poor lad ! Gerard and I were
very anxious about him. Miss Stallard sat up
with him three nights ; she is a good creature,
and Gerard is right when he says we have a
treasure in her.'

At this moment the object of Mrs. Moore's
eulogium entered the room, with a little girl
hanging on each arm. They were solemn-vol.

11. 33

looking children, with their mother's dark eyes,
and were introduced to Marjory as the twins,
Lois and Lily, or, as they were commonly
called, Goosey and Goody. Miss Stallard was
a small, neat-looking girl of about five-and-twenty,
with fair hair and eyelashes, and soft
manners ; but Marjory, who was very observant
and critical, took rather a dislike to her on the
spot, and much astonished Lilies by saying so,
the moment they had left the house.

Lilies put up her eyebrows in some perplexity.


You do not like Katie!' she observed, hardly
believing that she had heard aright. * My dear
Marjory, you had better not let Mrs. Moore
know your opinion ; she and the Vicar think
there is no one like her.'

I can believe that returned Marjory scornfully.
' Mrs. Moore, with all her sharpness,
and . her needle-like propensities, is completely
under her governess's thumb. I should
think that, in spite of her mildness and
humility of manner, Miss Stallard governs the
Vicarage

Lilies looked at her in a bewildered manner.
Why, mother and I always say that Mrs.

Moore manages not only her house, but the
Vicar and the parish too. You have not seen
Mr. Moore : he is one of those mild scholarly
men who are ruled by their women-folk. It
is all very well for Mrs. Moore to say, as
she always does, " Gerard and I think so and
so;" it ought to be "I and Gerard," for she
makes the poor man see everything through her
spectacles

1 Just so,' returned Marjory obstinately.
Mrs. Moore manages her husband, and Miss
Stallard manages her  and she does it in the
cleverest way, too. Why, Lilies, did you not
notice how anxious Mrs. Moore seemed for
those little girls not to go out ? Miss Stallard
agreed with her, and then somehow she brought
it round that they should go. I am sure I do
not know how she did it, for Goosey, as her
mother called her, certainly had a cold, and
looked far from well

But Katie is so sweet-tempered and affectionate,'
remonstrated Lilies. ' You should see her
in the schoolroom with all those rough children ;
she never loses her patience with them for a
minute, and she is so kind to them when they
are ill. She and Margaret are great friends.'

332

Marjory was silent : she knew Lilies always
thought well of everyone, and never liked to
have her faith shaken ; nothing displeased her
more than to have the faults of her friends
pointed out to her. ' Everyone had their
faults,' she would answer with real pettishness,
for even Lilies could be cross at such times.
She was not aware the w r old was peopled with
angels ; she supposed her friends said their
prayers, and tried to get rid of their faults. She,
for one, could not throw stones at them and
so on.

So Marjory, with much tact, said no more
about Miss Stallard, and was decidedly aggrieved
when Lilies brought up the subject of her own
accord at the luncheon-table, when they were recounting
the history of their morning.

1 Marjory does not like poor little Katie,
mother. Is it not too bad of her ?' she said, in
an injured tone.

Mrs. Carr looked at Marjory in some surprise,
but before she could speak, Barry, who was
lying on the couch by the fire, clapped his thin
hands suddenly together and said, ' Bravo,
Marjory ! I don't like her either ; she is too
soft and palavering for me. I like Mrs. Moore

ten times better, though her voice does set one's
teeth on edge sometimes. I always say so much
talking makes her thin; she will be like a
thread-paper presently

But she is very good-natured, and manages
all those children so well observed Mrs. Carr.
1 respect Mrs. Moore ; she is such a good wife
and mother. Katie is rather a favourite with
us all, Marjory ; she is so simple and unassuming.
The Vicar w T as full of her praises this morning
when he called. And even Dr. Ainslie had a
good word for her  he said what a capital nurse
she was ; and it seems poor Alick and dear little
Aubrey were very ill

1 I always distrust everyone's favourite,' returned
Marjory, rather sarcastically. But she
was rather tired of hearing about Miss Stallard's
praises. Why did they not talk about that
clever, sensible Margaret Ainslie ? She was far
more interesting. ' I will allow Miss Stallard
has nice manners, and is rather good-looking,
and dresses very neatly. I think that ought to
content you, Lilies.'

I Katie is really pretty, Marjory ; she has
lovely eyes

I I did not see them,' returned Marjory coldly.

She spoke to me without looking at me. And I
dislike light eyelashes ; they give a meaningless
expression to the face.'

And after this, Lilies was too much provoked
to say any more. Only Barry said under his
breath, ' A sly little monkey that never looks
one in the face And he exchanged a look of
intelligence with Marjory.

Lilies soon recovered her good-humour. As
Mrs. Carr observed afterwards, ' She had the
loveliest disposition, and never sulked for more
than five minutes

I was too bad to vex her by speaking against
Miss Stallard,' returned Marjory penitently. ' I
ought to keep my opinions to myself; as Anne
says, we are always dropping our thoughts for
other people to pick up. It is not generous,
she often tells me, to make a present of our own
rubbish to our neighbour ; it is like throwing
our weeds over the wall

Are you ready ?' exclaimed Lilies's voice
gaily, from behind the screen. c Paiby is coming
round, so be quick, you lazy girl !'

4 How nice you look, Lilies!' observed Marjory,
with a reconciling kiss.

Lilies was dressed in a charming gown of

dark green, with a little velvet hat that set off
her fair hair. She had a dainty little whip in her
hand, with a gold handle set with dark red
garnets. Marjory made her an excellent foil, in
her favourite brown dress and jacket, with the
pheasant's plume in her hat.

Mrs. Carr looked at them both admiringly.

1 Good-bye, my dears she said, in her clear
voice. ' Drive quietly, Lilies, for Kuby is rather
fresh from her long rest.'

1 Ruby is not Pepper, Marjory observed
Lilies, laughing. * You need not dread another
catastrophe. Ruby is so fond of me; she will
follow me down the field like a dog, and she puts
her nose into my pocket for sugar. She was
foaled on Headlands Farm. HurrelFs father
gave her to me. I was such a pet with him.'

Did he give you the whip too ?' asked
Marjory, not quite innocently.

It was odd that there was something the
matter with the harness at that moment, and
that Benson, the groom, was questioned somewhat
anxiously on the subject.

When the matter was set right, Lilies had a
great deal to say about the scenery. Did not
Marjory think that line of purple hills lovely,

\\ ili the dark shadows playing over them ?
And could anything be more glorious than the
wind that was blowing in their faces, and making
Ruby so skittish ? And she must look at that
meadow that was waving like a green sea.
And, oh dear  here her voice dropped quite
carelessly  there was Hurrell standing by
the little bridge, with Lassie, and Bruno,
and Dan, and Jasper  the dear beautiful
creatures !

Marjory w r as quite aware that Mr. "Wentworth
was w r watching them from the little bridge. She
had caught sight of the tall figure in the brown
velveteen coat, surrounded by dogs, before
Lilies had spoken. And what must she do
now but hum 'All is vanity, vanity vanity,'
which made Lilies bite her lip to prevent
herself laughing.

 Good-afternoon, Squire Lilies said cheerfully,
as he came up beside the low phaeton and
checked Ruby's pace by laying his hand on the
reins.

'You are late,' he answered quietly, looking
in her face. ' My mother's orange pekoe
will be spoiled. How do you do again, Miss
Deane ?'

And then the little procession moved on 
Lilies leaning back icily in her seat, and playing
with her whip, and all the dogs leaping
up round her as though they loved her;
Mr. Wentworth walked beside Ruby, talking toiler
and caressing her, while the sagacious
animal turned her nose in the direction of his
pocket, knowing that an apple or a piece of
sugar would be placed there for her benefit.

'Hurrell,' remonstrated Lilies at last, 'you
are making Ruby misbehave herself. How can
she turn the corner properly when she is rubbing
her nose against your coat ? You ought to have
received us at the door, and I should have dashed
through the village in proper style.'

'And now all the people will see I have
taken you captive ; you may as well give me
the whip, for I have possession of the reins
returned Mr. Wentworth, with a mischievous
glance back at her. ' Down, Jasper ! down,
Bruno ! Why, they are ready to eat you up
with joy ! Good dogs ! why can't you follow
your master's example, and walk with dignity ?*

I hope your mother is alone, Hurrell,' interrupted
Lilies, as he guided them into the park
with some difficulty ; for the dogs' excitement

made Baby playful, and she evinced a longing
to back into a neighbouring hedge  proceedings
that simply amused her mistress, though Benson
jumped out rather hastily, and went to the
Squire's help.

'Well, no,' he returned slowly; ' a friend of
yours, Miss Stallard, is sitting with her. She
has brought the twins over, because, she says,
Mrs. Moore wanted my mother to see them.'

How tiresome of Katie !' was on Lilies's
lips, but she looked at Marjory and refrained,
for it would never do to own that she found
Katie in the way ; so she only observed, with a
pretence of being pleased :

What, Goody and Goosey here ? the funny
little dears ! Well, Mrs. Moore did say something
about your mother ; but I suppose I was
inattentive, for I certainly did not hear Katie
say she was coming to Headlands.'

She only told Mrs. Moore that a brisk walk
might do Goosey good put in Marjory, who
never could hold her tongue. She, at least, was
sure that Headlands had never passed Miss Stallard's
lips.

Lilies looked just a little blank. ' I suppose
it was an afterthought,' she said presently.

Dr. Ainslie has just driven up,' continued
Mr. Went worth. ' He is a good fellow, but he
always conies when he is not wanted. I wish
my mother would not encourage all the neighbourhood
to drop in to afternoon tea. I generally
contrive to give the drawing-room a w r ide
berth about five o'clock

1 Very well,' Mr. Wentworth, replied Lilies
wickedly ; ' then I shall know when I am likely
to have a cosy chat with your mother.'

1 Oh, you he observed in a significant voice ;
1 1 should always know if you were here
all the dogs about the place would publish
that fact to me. Lassie w T ould let me know,
wouldn't you, old girl ?' and the look that accompanied
his words made Lilies jump up and
hand her whip to Marjory ; for she might as
well walk, she said, as go that ridiculous pace,
as though the dear dogs were being taught to
follow a funeral. But she gained little by this
piece of impatience, for Mr. Wentworth left
Ruby in Benson's charge, and took her lightly
by the arms and lifted her out ; and then he
walked very close to her, and talked in a low
voice, so that Marjory could not hear what he
said : she could only observe that Lilies was

listening with a heightened colour, and that for
once her merry tongue was silent.

Marjory sat in the phaeton until they chose
to join her ; she was in no hurry to go indoors-the
old red-brick house, with its climbing ivy
and creepers, took her fancy. The door was
open, and she had a full view of the long, dark
hall and oak staircase ; a sort of park-like
meadow studded with old trees stretched to the
road. She remembered Lilies's description ;
she had spoken of a trim little lawn behind the
house, with a sunny flower-garden ; but Marjory
could only see a belt of encircling meadows
with picturesque groups of cattle, and low fences
dividing them from the little park. It was all so
still and sunny and peaceful ; in her heart she
thought it far more cheerful than the dark woods
of Mavisbank. Lilies would have a lovely
home, she said to herself.

1 We have kept you waiting a very long time
exclaimed Mr. Wentworth, hurrying up at this
moment ;  but we waited in the field-path a
few minutes ; I wanted to show Miss Carr our
new Alderney.'

Marjory accepted the young squire's excuse
blandly ; she had seen the pretty dappled creature

striking its horns against the little gate.
If Lilies had tears in her eyes that she seemed
anxious to hide, it was not for Marjory to notice
them. Mr. Wentworth's face was flushed too,
and his mouth was twitching nervously under
his brown moustache as he assisted her to alight.

1 You will find my mother in the drawing-room,'
he said, as he looked up the staircase
after them. ' I see Owen is there to open the
floor for you, so I will join you by-and-by/

1 Take care, Marjory ; the stairs are very
slippery unless you are accustomed to them
observed Lilies, as she led the way. She had
made no sort of reply to Mr. Wentworth ; only
as she paused for a moment at the top of the
staircase she looked down into the dark hall,
and Marjory could not forbear a curious glance
in the same direction.

Mr. Wentworth was standing there watching
them. As Lilies's eyes met his, a quick smile
passed over his face, and as he turned away
they could hear him whistling carelessly : ' Allis
vanity  hip, hip, hurrah !  vanity let it be ! '

AN AFTERNOON AT Headlands.

S the girls entered the large, old-fashioned
drawing - room, a tall,
handsome - looking woman, with
silvery-grey hair, rose from a low chair by the
fire.

My dear, how late you are !' she said, a
little reprovingly, as Lilies kissed her ; ' Owen
brought up the tea a quarter of an hour ago.
What have you done with Hurrell ? he went
to meet you. And is this your friend Miss
Deane ?'

Arc we late ?' asked Lilies innocently.
You must scold Hurrell, then, for he would
show me the new Alderney, and he hindered us
frightfully  did he not, Marjory ? he and the
dogs. How do you do, Dr. Ainslie ? we have

met before. And, Katie, why did you not tell
me you were coming to Redlands ? But I
suppose it was an after-thoughts

After-thoughts are much the nicest,' returned
Miss Stallard quietly. 'Dear Mrs.
Wentworth, I hope you will let me make the
tea : there is nothing I love so much as to be
useful

1 That is Lilies's duty,' observed Mrs. Wentworth,
with an affectionate look at the girl.

But Lilies, who was drawing off her riding-gloves
for that purpose, suddenly changed her
mind, and sat down, lifting Goosey on her lap.

Katie shall do it this afternoon. I mean to
stay in this cosy corner with you and Goosey,
and Goody shall hand the cake.'

It was evident Miss Stallard approved of this
arrangement, for she took her place immediately,
without any further pressing, at the little square
tea-table ; and Dr. Ainslie, being the only
gentleman present, at once offered his services.
It was impossible for Marjory to deny that, in
spite of the obnoxious eyelashes, Miss Stallard
was certainly pretty. Her features were good ;
she had the soft, pale complexion that never
tans or freckles, and she had white dimpled

hands like a child's ; her figure, too, was neat
and rounded.

The Headlands drawing-room looked very cosy
this afternoon : there were three tall windows
with old-fashioned cushioned seats, looking
clown over the little sloping park ; the fire shone
ruddily on the cupboards of china ; the sunshine
streamed in on the Indian cabinets and old oil-paintings
; there was a faint smell of pot-pourra
from the tall blue jars on either side of the
fireplace ; the painted ceiling and wooden
panelling were all in keeping with the old, well-preserved
furniture.

It struck Marjory that Mrs. Wentworth was
as picturesque as her room. Her white hair
and worn look, perhaps the result of ill-health,
made her look ten or twelve years older than
Mrs. Carr. She must have been strikingly
handsome in her youth, and her features were
still very fine ; but they lacked Mrs. Carr's
*weet serenity of expression.

There were downward curves round the
mouth, and a slight pucker in the forehead, that
spoke of a nervous, perhaps a fretful, temperament
; her manners were a little precise and
old-maidish. She could not have married late

in life, for she was only two years older than
Mrs. Carr, and Marjory wondered how a married
woman, with a grown-up son, should have
become so prim, so like an old maid.

Perhaps her thin angular figure, a little
stooping from weakness, gave Marjory this
impression ; but she understood at once why
Lilies had called her punctilious  little faults
would be magnified in Mrs. Wentworth's eyes,
and little virtues heightened into great ones.
Perhaps her life had become narrow and
monotonous with its round of daily small cares
and joys. Marjory felt she would admire and
like her, she might possibly come to love
her in time ; but her affection would always be
tempered with reserve.

It was only large bountiful natures, such as
belonged to Mrs. Carr and Anne, and Mr. Frere,
that could attract and retain Marjory's fastidious
heart ; narrower and lesser natures, though good
of their kind, failed to awake any enthusiasm in
her.

Before five minutes were over, Marjory had
decided that Mr. Wentworth must have resembled
his father, and she even went so far
as to pity him for having a mother who, in

vol. 11. 34

spite of looking like a beautiful old picture, was
evidently full of small wants and wishes, that
must draw largely on his man's patience ; for a
fretful chord in a voice betrays more than its
owner knows. There was plainly a large
margin of discontent somewhere, that might
fill in rather a dreary border to a winter's evening,
when the mother and son were alone
together.

Marjory's youthful shrewdness was seldom
at fault, and yet Mrs. Wentworth was very kind
and courteous to her, and to her other guests ;
while she seemed to look upon Lilies as her
own daughter, whom she might blame and
praise as she felt inclined, and nothing could be
sweeter than Lilies's manner in return. It was
only when her son entered that her voice took
its first jarring note.

Hurrell, where have you been ? Dr. Ainslie
has had to wait upon us all. It is too bad of
you to absent yourself.'

I was shutting up the dogs,' he returned
quietly. ' Dr. Ainslie, I must apologize for
causing you so much trouble. Can I wait upon
anyone now ? Miss Stallard, I have never seen
you perform that duty here before,' standing

behind her chair ; but his eyes rested on Lilies
a little reproachfully. It was plainly repugnant
io him to see Miss Stallard presiding at his
mother's tea-table.

Miss Stallard makes excellent tea,' observed
Dr. Ainslie complacently. l She always remembers
that I take two lumps of sugar, and
that I like the milk put in first. She has
learned the trick from Margaret.'

1 am afraid I am not so well acquainted
with Mr. Wentworth's taste,' returned Miss
Stallard modestly.

Thanks  I will help myself returned
Hurrell absently. ' Mother, I hoped you
would have induced these young ladies to stop
to dinner.'

1 What, forsake Cosy Nook the first evening V
returned Lilies, pretending to be shocked. 'Mrs.
Wentworth knew better than to ask me.'

1 Yes, of course ; Hurrell, how can you be so
thoughtless ? What would Mrs. Carr say if we
robbed her of Lilies the first evening ? I should
have been delighted to have you, my dear, for
Hurrell always says he finds the evening so dull
not a compliment to his mother. But you and
Miss Deane must come over one afternoon next

312

week and stay, and Hurrell shall drive you home
in the dog-cart.'

1 We will see about that,' answered Lilies
quietly ; and then Dr. Ainslie joined them, and
Mr. Wentworth put down his half-finished cup
and took possession of a vacant chair by Lilies ;
but she seemed to be occupied with Goosey, who
was still on her lap.

Miss Stallard, evidently finding herself left
out in the cold, whispered to Goody to be quick
and finish her cake, and then sat down by
Marjory, turning her pretty profile to the others.

I am so glad you have come to stay at
Mavisbank,' she began cordially ; ' it must be so
dull for Miss Carr to have no sisters or companions
of her own age.'

'I do not think Miss Carr is ever dull,' returned
Marjory, a little dryly.

Oh no ; she is too sweet-tempered and
affectionate ever to seem so. But we girls all
need companions,' with a sudden flicker of the
sandy eyelashes. ' I know what it is to be solitary
myself. You are fortunate, Miss Deane, in
being spared a governess's trial.'

No one is without trials,' she replied coldly.
From the little she had heard of Miss Stallard,

she certainly did not think her an object for
pity.

'Oh, I know what you are thinking, Miss
Deane,' in her softest tone. ' You have been
at the Vicarage this morning, and I dare say
dear Mrs. Moore was saying kind things about
me. I wish I deserved them more

Mrs. Moore certainly expressed herself very
kindly about you,' was the curt answer.

Marjory was not desirous of a prolonged
tete-astute w r with Miss Stallard ; but what was she
to do while Mr. Wentworth monopolized Lilies
and Dr. Ainslie was talking to their hostess,
only 7 casting a sharp glance through his spectacles,
now and then, at Miss Stallard and herself.

I Dear Mrs. Moore, how I love her !' returned
Miss Stallard, with a little gush of feeling.
1 Other people think her sharp and sympathizing
; but that is because they do not know
her. They just judge from her outside manner;
but to me she is kindness itself.'

That must make it very pleasant for you.'
Marjory w T as beginning to wish that Miss Stallard
would not be quite so confidential.

I I was dreadfully afraid of her when I first
arrived at the Vicarage,' went on Miss Stallard.

That was only a year ago. My poor father
was just dead, and we poor girls had to turnout
into the world  rather a bitter ordeal when
one is not used to work

Marjory bowed her head in assent. She was
half afraid Dr. Ainslie was listening ; while
Mrs. Wentworth knitted and kept up a running
fire of remarks.

I was such a silly, frightened thing that I
could not help crying. It was very foolish for a
governess to behave so, but I had never been
from home before ; and I was thinking of my
mother and sisters, and longing to be back
with them. It was so terrible coming among
strangers, but dear Mrs. Moore was so good tome
; she told me to cheer up and be a good
girl, and the Vicarage would soon be like heme
to me.'

1 I dare say you found it trying at first.'

1 Yes, indeed '  and here Miss Stallard
sighed gently ; ' dear Mrs. Moore ! I would
not have her know for worlds how tired and
good for nothing I feel at the end of the day.
It is better to wear out than rust out ; but
with thirteen children !'  and here Miss Stallard
opened her blue eyes rather widely ; in colour

they resembled a kitten's, but they were not so
expressionless.

But they were not all your pupils exclaimed
Marjory, who could see no traces of overwork in
the smooth young face before her.

Oh, of course not rather hastily ; ' Ambrose
and Julius go to school now, and the four
youngest are in the nursery.'

And Miss Ainslie gives Kenneth and Bertram
lessons put in Marjory.

Miss Stallard looked a little confused. * Oh,
did dear Margaret tell you that ? Is it not
wonderful to think she is such a Greek scholar ?
She is so clever, so original, she makes me feel
such an ordinary common-place mortal beside
her. Yes, Edith and Helena and Cora and the
twins are my regular pupils ; but I do not stand
on my dignity, I assure you. I have a passion
for making myself useful. Sometimes I go into
the nursery when nurse is out, or I help the
boys with their lessons ; and as for mending 
oh dear, how I am rattling on ! and there is
Dr. xVinslie going. Dr. Ainslie '  as he came
up to them  ' I am not quite happy about dear
little Lois  Goosey we call her ; she does not
seem quite the thing. She was tired with

walking here; and I am sure I do not know
how I shall get her home.'

Humph ! the walk is too long for her, I
suppose. Why should I not give you all a lift
back ? There is plenty of room in the old trap

Oh dear no, Dr. Ainslie, I could not think
of such a thing ; it is just like your thoughtfulness.
I always tell Margaret how kind you are
to the children. But if Goosey gets too tired I
must carry her.'

Nonsense, Miss Katie ; a little creature like
you carry a big child of seven ! Come ; I shall
take no denial. Run along, Miss Goosey. And
what do you call the other one ? Please don't
keep me waiting.'

Is it not kind of him ?' observed Miss Stallard,
in an audible whisper. ' Come, darlings ;
we must not keep Dr. Ainslie waiting ;' and she
swept the little girls before her in a playful way.

That is a good girl observed Mrs. Wentworth,
as soon as Katie had disappeared. ' I
am sure I do not know what Mrs. Moore would
do without her ; she is more like her daughter
than her governess. She is a most useful,
unselfish little creature.'

I don't think you quite agree with my

mother Mr. Went worth said in an undertone,
as he stooped to put a pine log on the fire ;
and he looked at Marjory with amused eyes.
4 I could not help seeing your face when you
were talking to Miss Stallard just now ; it is
easy to see that you are not taken with little
Miss Katie.'

Please don't betray me,' returned Marjory,
with a laugh ; ' I have got into disgrace already
with Miss Carr for not appreciating her favourite.
I am far too ready with my likes and dislikes.
I do not care for Miss Stallard, and I have
taken a fancy to that nice plain Miss Ainslie.'

Is Margaret plain ?' he asked in surprise ;
and then he sat clown by Marjory, for his
mother and Lilies were talking rather earnestly
together, and he did not care to interrupt them.
Oh, you are right. You are a keen observer,
Miss Deane ; your remark proves that. Now r , I
have not reasoned on the subject, but all the
same I am rather indifferent to Miss Katie 
people here generally call her Miss Katie ; they
make a pet of her. But with all her softness
and gentle manners, I feel convinced she has a
strong will of her own.'

Oh, I am sure of it,' returned Marjory,

pleased to find that this honest, frank-spoken
young squire was on her side.

As for Margaret, she is good as gold ; but
her masculine education has made her a little
awkward. You must not he shocked at my
calling her Margaret ; we were old playfellows,
and she did a good many of my Latin exercises,
for me when I was a little dunce of a boy. My
mother thinks most highly of her, and so do I.
I wish we could have her more with us ; but
Dr. Margaret Ainslie, as Lilies calls her, is too
busy a woman to be often spared.'

Marjory, we must really go now, as we
shall not be in time to dress for dinner,' observed
Lilies, rising a little reluctantly from her warm
seat. ' Good-bye, Mrs. Went worth. Mother
will drive over and see you in a day or
two, and I will bring Marjory again next
week. I must take her to St. Theobald's tomorrow.'


1 I dare say I shall see you there. I have
some magistrate's work there in the morning.'

Mr. Wentworth looked very pleased when he
made this statement, but Lilies seemed a little
embarrassed ; she shook hands rather quietly
with him, as he opened the little gate that led

into the park, drove on in silence until Thorpe lay
behind them, and then she asked Marjory rather
abruptly how she had enjoyed her afternoon.

Very much was Marjory's answer. ' Red-hands
is such a nice old house, and I liked that
quaint old drawing-room.'

 You should see the library; that is Hurrell's
favourite room : it is panelled in oak, and
though it is rather dark, it looks so comfortable
in the winter evenings, with the old-fashioned
oak settles drawn round the fire. It is not Cosy
Nook, of course, but it is a fine old room.
Poor Mr. Wentworth was rather proud of his
books!'

Why does Mrs. Wentworth say that her son
finds his evenings dull ?' asked Marjory, rather
incautiously.

Lilies hesitated a moment.

Well, you see, it is a little dull for Hurrell/
she said at last. ' Men are not like us, Marjory
; they want more amusement. Mrs. Wentworth
is a dear woman, and I am very, very
fond of her ; but, of course, I can see that she
is a little trying at times to Hurrell, although
he is so good and patient with her.'

She has been very handsome.'

i Exceedingly so ; she and my mother were
called the Westmorland belles. I think Mrs.
Wentworth was rather spoiled by her husband,
and after his death she fretted her health away.
You see, Hurrell is very active and strong, and
his out-of-door life makes him hardy. Nerves
are a mystery to him  he cannot understand all
his mother's whims and fancies ; a daughter
would be more to her. There was some talk of
Katie coming to her as a companion, but Hurrell
did not like the idea, and so she gave it up.
But I cannot help thinking it a mistake on
Hurries part ; Katie would have been such a
comfort to Mrs. Wentworth

Would you have liked it ?' questioned her
friend, in some astonishment.

I should have no right to object,' was
Lilies's curt answer ; but she coloured up
excessively, as though the remark displeased
her. ' My advice was not asked on the subject,
or I should certainly have given my vote for
Katie. It was wrong of Hurrell ; he is not
generally selfish, but in this matter I think he
neglected his mother's interest. Mrs. Wentworth
is often ill, or ailing ; she has a very
useful maid in Simmonds, but Katie would have

amused her and read to her  she sings like a
little bird, too. Hurrell would not have complained
so bitterly then of their dull evenings.'


I can understand how Mr. Wentworth feels
about it replied Marjory. ' I like him so
much, Lilies, he is so frank, so true ; " Loyal
je serais durant ma vie " seems stamped on his
face

Now there was no reply to this, but the little
gold-handled whip trembled slightly in Lilies's
hand, and a sudden moisture came into the
hazel eyes ; but a moment after, when she
made some casual remark to Marjory, her face
was perfectly radiant.

It was late when they drove in to Mavis -
bank. Mrs. Carr was already dressed in her
velvet gown, and was sitting in her favourite
carved chair, talking to her son, when the girls
entered the hall.

Lilies darling she observed gently, ' you
are always late when you go to Headlands : the
gong sounded ten minutes ago

Oh dear ! I will not be five minutes dressings
exclaimed Marjory, shocked at their
punctuality ; but Lilies said nothing  only

went out as demurely as a cat who had been
stealing cream, though why Mrs. Carr and
Barry laughed at this sudden exit baffled
Marjory.

Lilies was a little quiet all dinner-time, but
when they adjourned to Cosy Nook for the
evening, the old merry mood returned. Marjory
was singing ; she must join her in some
duets  their voices would blend admirably together
; her mother and Barry should have a
treat.

Mrs. Carr acknowledged she had spent a
delightful evening, when the girls had fairly
exhausted themselves.

Hurrell must come and listen to them, and
they must sing trios and glees  ' Oh, who will
o'er the downs so free !' and ' The Chough and
Crow,' and all their old favourites ; and she
thought Margaret might be asked one evening,
she was fond of music  and there was little
Katie, too, she sang charmingly.

Oh yes, they may all come returned Lilies
carelessly.

And then, as Mrs. Carr went off to wish
Barry good-night, as he had retired early, the
girls were left alone in the hall.

Lilies was kneeling on the black bearskin rug
before the fire, and Marjory was on a low seat
close to her. Marjory suddenly leant forward
and touched her softly.

Lilies, it has often come into my head to
ask you something, but I never have. I have
told you about her  Mrs. Chard,' speaking the
name with an effort, ' and about the old days,
but you have never told me, in return, that you
remembered them.'

Lilies turned her face ; there was a little
surprise in her eyes.

Well, no, Marjory ; it was your manner, I
fancy, that kept me from speaking  you always
seemed to avoid the subject so decidedly.

But you do remember ?' persisted Marjory,
with some anxiety.

1 Not very much, I am afraid was the frank
answer. ' Of course, Miriam's name was
familiar to me, but then I was always hearing
about her and her troubles. I have a very
hazy recollection of my little playfellow.

1 That is very strange,' returned Marjory, in
almost a troubled tone. * Anne often told me
that for many nights after I came to her, I
cried bitterly because I could not kiss Sissie.'

I suppose I was Sissie ?' asked Lilies gently.

4 Yes, that was my baby name for you  it
was always Sissie ; we used to sleep in the
same cot  she has often told me that. Is it not
strange, Lilies, to think we were fond of each
other all those years ago ?'

Perhaps that is the reason why I care for
you so much now,' returned Lilies thoughtfully.
' I have only an indistinct remembrance
of my baby clays. I think going abroad blotted
them out of my memory ; but perhaps it has
something to do with my love for you now. I
feel almost as though you were my sister,
Marjory.'

Dear little Sissie !' kissing her affectionately,
and then a quick change came over her
face, and it grew troubled again. ' Lilies, will
you always try to feel like that  as though you
were my sister ? I would not pain you, if I
could help it. Oh no, not for worlds ! if I
could help it. But if any trouble should come
through me,' and here her eyes grew a little
wild, ' remember that I always loved you  that
I would have spared you if I could. You must
never turn against me, Lilies  Lilies, it would
almost break my heart!'

1 My dear, what makes you talk so V exclaimed
Lilies, putting her arms round her.
Am I one to turn against my friends when I
love them, far  far too much ? Why, you are
crying, Marjory  your eyes are wet !'

It is nothing, dear. I was only thinking of
the old days, and how strange everything is.
Good-night, Sissie. See, I am calling you that
again, just for the sake of the dear old time
when we were children together

But as she stooped and kissed Lilies's forehead,
a sob seemed to rise in her throat, and
she turned hastily away.

VOL. II. oi

1 THERE ARE NO " BUTS " HERE.'

Three weeks had passed away since
Marjory's arrival at Mavisbank, and
she had become as accustomed to the
ways of the household as though she had lived
there for years ; save for the knowledge of that
strange secret that lay so heavily on her spirits,
the days would have passed over her head as
smoothly unhappily as they did over Lilies'.

Marjory began to understand why Lilies
never felt dull at St. Kilda's. That young
person, with her gentle sprightly manners and
fund of bright humour, was the centre of attraction
to the whole neighbourhood ; young and
old, poor and rich, all seemed to lay claim to
her sympathy. Nothing but the sweetness of
her nature and her genuine humility saved her

from being completely spoiled. The very dogs
at St. Kilda's, and even at Thorpe, would leap
and fawn upon her as though they loved the
si<*ht of hero



It was something delightful to see this girl
at her work or her play  she threw herself
so completely into everything she undertook.
The mornings before luncheon were spent by her
and Marjory either in working among the
flowers in the conservatory, or in painting and
embroidering an altar-carpet for St. Kilda's
Church in the old hall.

The carpet was to be finished by Christmas,
and as Marjory was very skilful with her
needle, Mrs. Carr and Lilies found her an
invaluable auxiliary.

Barry always remained in his own sitting-room
until luncheon ; when he was tolerably
well, Mr. Moore would come and read with
him for an hour or two ; sometimes his mother
would sit with him and write her business
letters in his room ; often a message would
come for Lilies or Marjory. Marjory never
went uninvited, but it was always a happiness
to her to be allowed to read to him or talk to
him a little. As he grew accustomed to her,

352

he would order her about, or speak irritably to
her as he would to Lilies. And Marjory's quick

temper never took fire ; she had nothing but
gentle words and looks for the poor boy, whose
physical and mental sufferings were often so
great.

You are awfully good to me he would
say penitently ; ' I wish I were not such a
sulky ill-tempered fellow And then Marjory
would laugh and make-believe that she had
not noticed his crossness ; and, indeed, who
could have found it in their heart to speak
sharply to this poor invalid with his shrunken
figure, and the beautiful eyes that always
looked at one with such pathetic affection ?
Certainly not Marjory, who would flush with
pleasure when he uttered her name. ' Her
brother, her very own brother,' she would say
softly to herself, as she went to do his bidding.
Sometimes she wondered why Lilies did not
grow jealous when he asked for her so often,
and treated her with such brotherly frankness ;
but such feelings were utterly dormant, if they
existed at all in Lilies's nature. Jealous of anyone
who could give her poor boy an hour's
forgetfulness of his pain ! No, indeed ; it was

she who could not be sufficiently grateful to
Marjory.

When Barry was well enough he liked his
mother to drive with him in the large comfortable
barouche ; or if this exertion were too
much for him, he would take possession of his
couch in Cosy Nook after luncheon. And then
his mother must stop with him, or Lilies, or
Marjory ; and any chance visitor was welcome,
who would bring news of the outer world ; and
if Mr. Wentworth spent two days without
coming to see him, Barry could be sulky even
with him. But, indeed, the young squire
never failed in his attentions ; once a day, at
least, he was at Mavisbank. What was it
that could be done without him ? He was
Mrs. Carr's referee in all matters of business.
It was he who lectured Barry when those
morbid fits of depression came on, and the
women only made things worse by over-indulgence
and petting ; then it was Hurrell who
must scold the poor boy and make him ashamed
of himself.

Sometimes if the work w T ere heavy in the
conservatory, and the great pots wanted moving,
Hurrell must help them, of course ; and how

could they gather the first primroses without
him ? and in the evening were there not all sorts
of glees and trios to be practised ? Marjory
began to wonder at last at Mrs. Wentworth's
long-suffering, and she asked Lilies more than
once how Mr. Went worth could spare her so
much time when he had his own farms to look
after and his magistrate's work at St. Theobald's;
but Lilies only laughed, and said Hurrell was
an excellent manager, for he always contrived
to do his own business and theirs too  for the
idea of Hurrell's being too tired or busy to dance
attendance on her whenever she pleased, was
one that never occurred to her.

Lilies, with Ruby's help, had made Marjory
acquainted with the beautiful scenery that lay
round them. She drove her to St. Theobald's,
and Marjory was charmed with the grey old
market town, with its glorious setting of
meadows, and river, and dark blue hills ; and
they looked at the grand old church, and had tea
in the quaint old vicarage, and spent quite along
afternoon there.

It was too early in the year for tennis, and
the militia camp was not yet formed on the
moor. The gay season for St. Kilda's and St.

Theobald's would come later; then there would be
garden-parties and picnics, and all sorts of rural
delights. But they were not dull, for all that
oh dear no ! There were people to visit at
Thorpe ; and always guests driving or riding upto
Mavisbank, and staying to have tea in Cosy
Nook. Lilies and Marjory would find the old
hall looking the picture of comfort when they
came in from their long drive. There would bea
fire  always a fire on those clear spring afternoons
; and there would be the tea-table, and
the smell of hot cakes ; and perhaps Hurrell, or
Captain Venison, or the Shows, or the Morris,
or some of the Moores, with Katie Stallard, or
Colonel Pemberton from Carlisle, sitting chatting
with Mrs. Carr and Barry, and waiting until the
girls came in, for nothing was ever complete
without Lilies.

Once a week they spent an afternoon or an
evening at Headlands  so much, at least, w r as
due to Mrs. Wentworth  and then it was a
red-letter day for Hurrell ; it was evidently a
joy to him to see Lilies moving about the old
rooms, doing little offices for his mother. Mrs.
Wentworth was always less fretful and depressed
when Lilies was near her, and, indeed, the whole

household seemed to bow down to the girl, and
to regard her as their future mistress. Hurrell
would consult her about the garden. Sometimes
he induced her and Marjory to ride or drive with
him to some outlying farm that Lilies might give
her opinion about the dairy, and there was always
some eager consultation between the two about
the cattle, or the poultry yard, or the new beehives
in which he took such an interest ; and,
indeed, there was nothing that the squire could
do without her. If they were not engaged  and
something in Lilies's manner forbade such a
supposition  still it w T as evident that the whole
neighbourhood considered the thing as good as
settled.

Hurrah's claim was such that no other
young man ventured to pay Lilies more than a
passing attention. She was perfectly frank with
them all, but a married woman could not hic
been more sedate and dignified. Flirting was
an art she failed to understand, and even Hurrell
could find no room for jealousy. But all the
same, Marjory grew sorry for him before the
three weeks were over. He was very patient,
very manly in his wooing, but often and often
there would be a look of pain on his face as

Lilies treated him with that careless frankness.
She was perfectly kind and friendly to him, but
the least attempt on his part to break down the
barrier she had raised between them made her
uneasy and reserved. Marjory saw that he did
not understand her, but to her the whole thing
was plain as sunshine. Lilies was fighting
desperately for her own freedom. She was
trying to hide from herself and others that her
heart w r as not in her own keeping. If Lilies
could help it, Hurrell should not know his
power over her; when he came to understand
that, she would lose her liberty.

She was content to leave things as they were,
and she wanted Hurrell to be content too.
What could be better than their present life ?
she would have asked him. They saw each other
every day; they were good friends, always pleased
with each other's company, always well amused
and happy. Headlands was dear to her, though
not so dear as Mavisbank. She was perfectly
happy, and she could not at all understand why
Hurrell should rebel against such a charming
arrangement. Why should he be in such a
hurry to marry when he had a good mother to
take care of him ? In her opinion there was no

hurry at all. One day, perhaps in a few years'
time  but there was no need to think about that
now. But all these speeches were reserved for
Mrs. Carr ; Lilies would hardly have ventured
to make them to Hurrell. She had tried to hint
it to him once, and she had never forgotten the
look with which he had listened to her.

I see you do not love me yet,' he had said
to her. 'I will wait just a little longer;' and
then, without another word, he had left her,
frightened and unhappy, because Hurrell seemed
angry with her. But the next day he came
and spoke to her as usual, and Lilies thought
she was forgiven, and her face grew radiant
again. She went on in her old, light-hearted
way, treating Hurrell as her chosen friend, and
totally ignoring him in his character of lover ;
and she was so charming, in spite of her wilfulness,
that one must forgive her in spite of oneself.


Marjory, who was clear-sighted in such
matters  and what girl of twenty is ever blind
to a love-affair ?  took up the squire's cause with
her usual warm-hearted partisanship ; and if
only Lilies had given her an opportunity, which
she never did, being singularly reserved on this

subject, she would have spoken to her pretty
plainly.

Once, indeed, they had a long talk, in which
Hurrell's devotion was clearly implied, but his
name was not mentioned. Nevertheless, the
young man was in both their thoughts, and
Lilies winced more than once under Marjory's
severe words.

They had been gathering primroses, and when
their baskets were full they sat down to rest on
the seat that Hurrell had made in the dell.

Marjory had noticed Lilies's quick glance at
the Old English letters before she seated herself,
and was quite aware of the quiet look of satisfaction
that was on her face ; but she took no
notice, and they began talking of a book they
were reading aloud in the evening to Barry.

At present they had made very little progress,
for there had been many interruptions.
Mr. Moore or Dr. Ainslie had come in to
challenge Barry to a game of chess ; or Mr.
Wentworth had ridden over with the new songs
he had ordered for Lilies, and perhaps there
would be one that would suit Marjory. So
the story was laid aside, and the wax candles
were lighted, and the three young people

gathered round the piano, vliile Mrs. Oarr
put down her work to listen, sometimes with
the tears rolling down her cheeks, for Lilies's
voice rang so sweetly through the old hall ; and
she thought of her Philip who had gone to his
rest in the very fulness of his prime, and of
her poor hoy lying on his couch beside her, who
could never be what Philip was. The widow's
heart felt oppressed and yet triumphant, for to
true lovers there is no death ; she had her husband's
memory to cherish, her living children
to love, and it was still hidden from her that
her strongest affection was lavished on another
woman's child.

The story seemed to have the strangest fascination
for Lilies, and she asked Marjory now
what she thought of the heroine, and was she
not a dear lovable creature, and would not
Marjory have cared for her if she had known
her in life ? and so on, in Lilies's quick enthusiastic
way.

Yes, she w r as very nice,' Marjory returned ;
1 but she was not faultless. Oh dear no ;
one could not say that of her. Did not Lilies
think it wrong of her, for example, to keep that
fine-hearted lover of hers on tenter-hooks, not

knowing whether she cared for him or not, or
if she would ever bring herself to marry him ?
For herself, she hated such half-measures.'

1 Oh, but she does care for him,' replied Lilies
eagerly ; ' one can read between the lines easily.
And you must remember, Marjory, that we are
only in the second volume. Of course, things
will come right by-and-by.'

Do not be too sure of that,' was the unexpected
reply. ' He may rebel against her tyranny,
and refuse to be dragged at her chariot wheels
any longer; I should, in his case. I would wait
until it was " whistle and I will come to you,
my lad." I would not stand any more nonsense
if I were he ; it is just the cat and mouse game
that I dislike.'

Dear me, Marjory, how can you say such
severe things ?'

Because they are true ; and I detest any
kind of moral cruelty. What is play to the cat
is death to the mouse. As Mr. Frere says,
there is no real fun unless both parties see the
point of the joke.'

Have you heard from Mr. Frere lately ?'
asked Lilies quickly, as though she wished to
change the subject.

'Yes, I have a letter from Anne in my pocket.
It is a dear sweet letter. But you must forgive
me if I keep it to myself ; Anne writes to me as.
though I were her own child.'

Of course, I understand such letters should
be secret

1 There is nothing I could not show, but
Anne has old-fashioned notions, little scruples
about silence and reserve in families. What
were we saying, Lilies, about my poor ill-used
hero ?'

1 Oh, not ill-used ; please do not utter such a
word, Marjory. Indeed Sybil loves him, but
she wants her freedom a little longer. She is
afraid of the responsibility, afraid of herself, of
possible regrets and home-sickness  it is all so
beautifully, so naturally told. I wish you would
be a little less hard on such a noble creature. '

A noble creature ! well, yes ; but she is
selfish too. What is a little freedom, a little
more pleasure, compared to the thought that
she is inflicting suffering on a human being
whose only fault seems to be that he loves her
too w r ell!'

But, Marjory,' and there was a faint stirring
of colour on Lilies's face.

1 There are no "buts" here,' returned Marjory
warmly ; ' either she cares for him, or she cares-only
for herself. When people really love, they
are not like that. They clo not hold back, and
think of possible regrets, and fear responsibilities.
If a woman loves a man she fives herself

o

generously ; she is not afraid of a little self-sacrifice.
Oh no ; we are not such poor
creatures as that

She is thinking of others, not herself
returned Lilies, with a pained look. ' You are
too hard, Marjory ; you do not make allowances
for people. Perhaps she would be too glad to
give herself, but there are others of whom she
may be thinking

Then it is her duty to think of him replied
Marjory steadily. ' You are wrong, Lilies 
you are wrong  you are taking narrow views of
a large subject. When a woman has allowed a
man to love her '

Perhaps she cannot help it, Marjory interrupted
Lilies ; and now her fair face was
flushed and uneasy, but Marjory turned her eyes
away, and played with the primroses in her
lap.

1 If she cannot help it  if she has tried to

help it and failed  I do not see that we need
blame her ; but Anne says  indeed, I get all
my wisdom from Anne  that a girl's vanity
is often at fault in such matters. No, Lilies,
I must have my say : if a girl or woman
allows a man to love her, she has already
incurred responsibility  she owes a duty to
him. If she return his love, she ceases to
belong to herself ; no desire for freedom, no
inclination, can weigh for a moment in the
balance against her obvious duty to give up
her own will in consideration of his comfort, to
refuse to torture him with delays. No, my
dear, no. Sybil, your heroine, may be a noble
creature, but to my mind she is faulty and
ungenerous

'Oh, I am sick of Sybil ! I wish I had not
mentioned her !' exclaimed Lilies impatiently.
Good-bye, Marjory ; I am not going to listen
any more to your grand sentiments. I want
some more primroses, and you are dreadfully
idle and have not picked half enough. ' And she
went off, singing as she went ; but the uneasy
flush was still on her face, and Marjory smiled
to herself as she took out Anne's letter, for she
knew her words had gone home.

She sat for a long time musing over the
letter, while the shafts of sud light fell aslant
the tree-boles and made golden patches on the
moss ; the little beck tinkled merrily in the
grass, there were tiny flecks of foam as the
baby waves dashed against the grey boulders ;
the hooded ferns on the banks were still cloaking
their delicate fronds, and among them
were silver-weed and bonnie burden ; while in
the damper corner of the dell there was a
bright streak where the marsh marigolds grew ;
-and Lilies's beautiful voice was singing :

Oh Mary, come and call the cattle home,
Across the sands of Dee !'

until it died away in the distance.

But Marjory's eyes grew sad, as she took up
Anne's letter.

My Darling,' it said,  'You have been three
whole weeks away from us, and already I feel
that we have been separated a long while ; but
there is no talk of your return ; you are busy
and amused and happy with your new friends,
whom I do not know, but whom I am beginning
to love for your sake. Now, it is a strange

vol. 11. 3G

thing, that when I read aloud part of your
letters to Capel  indeed, lie asks for them if
I ever try to smuggle them away  though he
thinks them clever and amusing and full of
description, he will have it that you say so little
about yourself and your own feelings, and that
he cannot make up his mind that you are
happy, in spite of all your fine doings. He has
told me this again and again, and always with
such a grave face, as though he believes it. And
then he walks up and down the room  you know
his way  as though he wanted to walk oft* a
troublesome thought. To-day he asked if you
had sent him no other message  but, indeed, it
was quite a pretty message that I read to him 
and I gave him some of the pressed wild flowers,
so he ought to have been satisfied ; but still he
shook his head, and there was a cloud on his
face. " If I thought I could do her good  if I
could bring myself to believe that it would give
ner any pleasure, I would go' he said ; but T
think he was talking to himself, for he went out
of the room directly afterwards. What can he
mean, Marjory ? You are as happy as possible,
are you not, with that dear Lilies whom you love
so much ? And what is he to bring himself to

believe ? Surely not that you would be pleased
to see him, when he knows how fond you have
been of him from a little child, when you cried
and would not be comfortable if you were not
allowed to sit up for dear " Frees."

It is very perplexing, and troubles me a
little, for I am certain Capel misses you sadly.
He does not make half so many funny speeches,
and he quite forgets to grumble if I stay too
long at the district or at the mothers' meeting ;
and he and Fluff take such long walks, and when
he comes back he has such a fagged, tired look, as
though he had not enjoyed himself, and I think
that you must write him a cheerful, affectionate
letter, and scold him for not taking care of himself.
And, indeed, if he sits up so late, and
smokes so many pipes, and neglects his club,
there is no knowing what may happen.'

It was this sentence that frightened Marjory.
Neglected his club!' When had Mr. Free
done such a thing before ? He must be ill, or
out of spirits. Could it be about her  could he
really miss her so much as that ?

Now, my dear, you must not reproach me
for sending you such a dull letter, for you know

362

we always tell each other all our little worries '
(' " All" ? Oh, Anne, Anne !' and Marjory's eyes
grew dim at this), ' and my own affairs always
seem so small beside yours and Capel's. You
need not question me so anxiously about my
dulness. Dear child, do you not know that there
must be a margin of dulness in middle-aged lives ?
So much lies behind, there is so little to expect.
Truly I pity all middle-aged women if they have
none to love beside themselves. I have never
been without "my darling torment," as Capel
used to call you.

Nellie often comes in to sit with me. The
dear child grows prettier every day. It is dull
to see her with those solemn-faced children ; she
is never without one of them. I think Popples
is the favourite, but they all adore their future
little mamma. Fancy that little round-faced girl
being called mamma ! I hear that Mr. Brooks
is pressing an early marriage on Mrs. Walford.
She cries a good deal about it, but Nellie is convinced
that he will talk her over, and that it will
not be later than August. Of course, you will
be her bridesmaid. Now r I must water my
flowers. The poor things look drooping, and
you know I must have everything cheerful round

me, from flowers to human faces, and Capel's
does not please me at all.

'Good-bye, my own dear child, I wish you
were little Marjory again, to trot after me everywhere.
Old maids' children ought never to grow
old. It is too hard on a lone woman who has no
husband.

Yours lovingly,

1 Anne Frere.'

CHAPTER XIV.

I WISH I WERE LIKE YOU.

APiJORY had seen a good deal of
Margaret Ainslie during those three
weeks, and she liked her better each
time they met. There was something uncommon
in the mixture of masculine intelligence and childlike
simplicity that lay at the foundation of her
character. Her far-sighted views of life were
wonderful, considering that she had been brought
up in a small country town, and knew little
worldly wisdom except what she gleaned from
books or conversation with her father. But her
extensive knowledge failed to puff her up ; on
the contrary, she was very humble in her estimate
of herself, and would lament her lack of
feminine accomplishments with a frankness that
was almost pathetic. It was strange to hear

this gifted creature sorrowing because little schoolgirls
in their teens could thump their pieces on
the piano to their own satisfaction and their
friends' politely-suppressed misery, or achieve
studies in chalks and water-colours, or bring home
wonderful specimens of ornamental needlework,
while she bungled over the simplest sewing, and
put in patches with the painstaking labour of a
little charity girl. The mysteries of button-holding
and darning, which Mrs. Moore was
good-naturedly teaching her, were far more
difficult to Margaret than the Hebrew lessons that
she took secretly from the Vicar.

Marjory's letters to Miss Frere were full of
description of this extraordinary Margaret. Anne
grew quite interested in her. But Mr. Frere
showed and pooh-poohed the notion of the
village genius. An * Admirable Crichton ' in petticoats,
who was conversant with the classics, had
studied anatomy and elementary physics, who
could dispense medicines on a small scale, and
adjust bandages to broken heads, w T as a sort of
impossible paragon whom he failed to understand.

It is all very well,' he would say in a huffy
tone ; ' it is a good thing this Dr. Margaret
Ainslie, as Marjory calls her, lives in the nineteenth

century. In mediaeval times she would
have been burned as a witch. Her father must
be crazy to give her this sort of education. If
there is one thing I detest, it is your learned,
strong-minded female in spectacles

When Anne wickedly retailed this speech 
for the small woman could be mischievous in
her way  Marjory only laughed at this piece of
cross-grained satire. She often remembered Mr.
"Wentworth's question : ' Do you call Margaret
plain ?' and the tone of surprise in which he
said it.

Plain, indeed ! Marjory was not at all
sure that she was not beautiful. Her features
might be strongly marked and irregular, her
complexion a little sallow, but who could
remember that when one watched her play of
expression, and met the full glance of her honest
eyes ? Marjory rather disliked spectacles herself
before she saw Margaret wear them, and she
greatly amused Lilies once by her remarking
that she was sure Miss Ainslie would not be so
nice looking without them.'

One wet, wild afternoon, when the lawns of
Mavisbank were sodden with rain, and a cold
wind was whistling rather drearily through the

wood, Marjory put on her waterproof dress, and
went down the street to see Margaret.

Lilies had a headache  rather an unusual
ailment with her  but it gave her the excuse
for a great deal of petting on Mrs. Can's part.
Perhaps it made Marjory's heart ache too much
to see Lilies's fair head on her mother's lap. The
headache must have been a very light one, or
she would not have wrapped Mrs. Carr's arms
round her, and coaxed her to do nothing else
but talk to her. Anyhow Marjory felt restless,
and the idea came into her mind that a chat
with Margaret would do her good.

On the threshold she encountered Mr. Wentworth,
who had driven over this wet afternoon
to cheer up Barry.

Marjory pictured the scene in Cosy Nook as
she made her way down the steep path. Lilies
would not change her position, she was sure of
that. She was in one of her baby moods, as she
called them, and Hurrell would have very little
attention paid him. She guessed that he would
take the high-backed chair that stood behind
Barry's couch, where he could see Lilies's pale
face with the fire-light playing on it. He would
be listening to the low-toned talk all the time

he was trying to discuss an interesting political
question with Barry. Marjory could almost
see him pulling his brown moustache, and the
eager look that would come into his eyes as
Lilies carelessly addressed some word to him.

Margaret was sitting by the window mending
an old table-cloth, and Plato's ' Dialogues' lay in
her lap ; the little parlour looked cosy and
home-like, with a great black cat curled upon
the rug before the fire, and a basket of primroses
on the table.

Margaret greeted her cordially ; she was evidently
pleased with Marjory's overtures of
friendship.

It is so good of you to take compassion on
me this dreary afternoon she said gratefully.
1 It is doing me a real kindness, for I have a
cold, and father will not let me leave the house
to-day. Now you must take off your hat, and
have tea with us. We have real old-fashioned
tea, you know, with no dinner to follow, only a
nine o'clock supper. But father will be in by
half-past live, and he will walk up to Mavisbank
with yon.'

I can stay until half-past six,' returned
Marjory, quite satisfied with this arrangement.

A Mr. Wentworth dines with us tonight, and
Lilies will want me to accompany them in some
clues  that is, if her headache gets better. Mrs.
Carr has sent you a message : she wants you to
come back with me, because you are so fond of
music ; and really Mr. Wentworth has such a
line voice, it is quite a pleasure to listen to him

4 Thanks, not to-night,' replied Margaret,
taking up her work again, and there was a little
blush upon her face as she spoke. ' I can come
tomorrow, or perhaps the next day, but tonight
it is impossible, with my cold.'

I forgot your cold. Never mind ; I dare say
we shall have Mr. Wentworth another evening.
There are few days that we do not see him, and,
indeed, I quite miss him if he does not come.'

1 1 dare say Hurrell is a very pleasant companion,'
was the rather hurried answer. ' Will
you tell Mrs. Carr that I will come tomorrow ?
There is no need for music ; it is always a change
for me to be at Mavisbank. Lilies's voice is
sufficient music for me ; to hear her talking to
her mother and Mr. Barry, is like listening to
some little beck flowing on in the sunshine.
Certainly Lilies is the happiest creature I ever
knew.'

1 Yes,' returned Marjory curtly. But this
afternoon she could not talk about Lilies, when
she remembered the beautiful hand with the
diamond rings flashing in the fire-light, sit
stroked the fair braids of hair. ' Now you
must let me help you in a more animated
voice. ' Oh, I can darn splendidly, I assure you ;
my dear Miss Frere taught me that

Margaret held up her work with a curious
little smile. ' Look at this, Miss Deane ! Would
you not suppose a child of eight years old had
done that, and not a women of seven-and-twenty ?
I would make you a present of my Latin, but not
my Greek  oh dear no, that is far too precious
to me  if you would give me your skilful
fingers

Marjory looked at her pretty little hands
with a good deal of disdain.

Oh, they are so useless she said scornfully .
 What good have they done since I learnt to
use them ? I have never prevented a person
from bleeding to death with a playful intonation
in her voice ; ' and I have never bandaged a
burnt baby, and treated it so skilfully that it did
not die after all.'

Margaret seemed a little confused at this.

How naughty of Lilies to tell you ! indeed
there is nothing in all that. You forget I ama
doctor's daughter ; stupid as I arn, I feel in my
element in a sick-rooms

Do you know, I rather envy you,' returned
Marjory seriously ; ' you live such a grand
sort of life, and the rest of us girls only fritter
it away. Oh, we do no harm as Margaret
seemed about to interrupt her, ' but
then we do very little good. Life is a
clay of small things to us, little pleasures
and petty cares, and a good deal of
discontent, when we cannot adjust circumstances
to our liking ; but you  you are different


Margaret hung her head  it was a very finely
shaped head  as though she were abashed at
Marjory's speech. ' Oh yes ; I know I am
different, you need not tell me that in quite
a sad tone.

Marjory opened her eyes at this display of
humility. ' You must not misunderstand me,
Miss Ainslie. You are only different to us
because you are so much better.'

Oh no, no  please do not say so,' quite
shrinking from this unexpected praise.

'Why should I not tell you the truth?' a
little wilfully. ' We hear Dr. Margaret Ainslie's-
praises in every cottage we enter. Sometimes
it is "the doctor's daughter," or "the good lady
up at doctor's' Think what grand things you
do day after day, while I am just killing time,
or making little duties for myself  a little
gardening, a little practising, so many visits,
so much tennis ! And you with your Greek,
and your pupils at the Vicarage, and your sick
people, and all the good that you do. If usefulness
could make a person happy, I think you
ought to be happier even than Lilies.'

There was a quick catch of Margaret's breath
as Marjory paused, but a beautiful smile came
to her face as she answered her.

1 Do you know, I never talk to myself in that
way she said quite simply. * What does it
matter so much if one be happy, as long as one
does the duty that comes to hand. Every day
its work or duty. We are not sent into the
world for happiness ; I have lived long enough
to know that.'

1 But all the same, one longs for it observed
Marjory a little bitterly.

Oh yes ; we long for it ! There are children

who cry for the moon ; but if it were given to
them, the poor infants would be sorely perplexed
what to do with it. How strange,' in a thoughtful
tone, ' if one's granted wish were given
only to crush one with its very magnitude !
Don't you remember, Miss Deane, how the
multitude fell a-lusting for flesh in the wilderness,
and while the coveted food was between
their teeth, the plague broke out among them ;
that teaches one to be afraid of wishing for
anything too much.'

1 Do you not wish for anything, then ?' asked
Marjory rather curiously. She could make
nothing of the confused colour that mounted
to Margaret's forehead, but it passed as she
spoke.

Oh yes ; I have many wishes. I wish,
for example, to be a comfort to my father, and
to make myself a companion for him. I wish
to be of use in the world, and do some good
with my talents ; and especially I wish people
to trust me, and to feel sure of my sympathy.'

Yes, yes,' a little impatiently; ' all this is
as it should be ; but surely you have more
personal wishes than even these.'

I dare say,' very quietly ; * but a busy life

stumps out all such useless thoughts. If I had
time to think about myself, I dare say I could
coin discontent as cleverly as other people ; but
what of that ? We are too ignorant to fashion
our own lives ; a beneficent Providence does that
for us.'

4 Oh, how I wish I were like you !' sighed
Marjory; and she really meant what she said,
for her young face was growing thin and sharp
with her hidden trouble, and more than once
Mrs. Carr had told her that she feared the air
of St. Kilda's was too keen for her. ' Oh
dear in quite a different tone, * I thought we
should be safe from visitors on such a wet
afternoon ; but surely that is Miss Stallard
crossing the road.'

Yes, it is Katie,' returned Margaret, laying
down her work ; but Marjory did not think that
she seemed so pleased to see her as usual.
Perhaps she, too, was sorry that their tete-astute
was interrupted by any new-comer. Miss
Stallard, on her side, seemed a little taken aback
when she saw Marjory.

My dear Margaret she said, kissing her
with effusion, ' I am so surprised to see Miss
Deane with you ! Am I de tn>j>  shall I go away V

No, indeed ; what nonsense, Katie !'

May I stop, then ? I should like to rest a
little after fighting that dreadful wind ; it has
blown the rain away, but the roads are so muddy.
I said to Mrs. Moore at luncheon, I was sure
that you would be dull stopping at home all
day with such a bad cold. Dr. Ainslie told us
you had a cold, so I proposed that I should runover
and read French with you, and she quite
agreed with me.'

You are very kind, Katie dear ; but you
see I have a visitor. Noel and Chapsall will
hardly entertain Miss Deane !'

1 Never mind ; we can talk, then,' returned
Miss Stallard cheerfully, and she proceeded to
make herself quite at home without any further
invitation. To Marjory's secret discomposure
she took off her waterproof and hat, and after
smoothing her pretty hair, and unpinning her
dress, she took out a neat little housewife from
her pocket, and asked Margaret for the remainder
of the tea-cloths that she was
hemming.

Marjory became decidedly moody, as Miss
Stallard stitched away and chatted to them both ;
not that her silence or Margaret's sudden

vol. 11. 37

gravity mattered in the least to this young
person. Katie was evidently one of those
people who see nothing hut what they wish to
see. It did not enter into her head, apparently,
that her presence was not specially welcomed ; she
calked on breathlessly about dear Mrs. Moore's
excellent management, and the Vicar's cough,
and Goosey's bad cold that she had caught no
one knew how ; but of course Dr. Ainslie had
been called in, for with a delicate child, and
she always would have it that Goosey was
extremely delicate, there was no knowing what
might come of it  and so on, with many
stagnates and notes of admiration.

Well, it must have been a cheerful sight for
the tired doctor when he came in from his
rounds, and saw the three young gentlewomen
gathered round the lamp. Katie had brushed
up the hearth, and fetched the kettle from
the kitchen, and now it was singing merrily ;
there were slippers warming on the rug  and
it was not Margaret who had thought of that,
for her large busy mind sometimes let little
things slip.

No wonder the doctor smiled benevolently
when he saw these little preparations for his

comfort. No wonder he stood so long on the
rug, rubbing his large white hands together,
and beaming on the three girls through his
spectacles.

Of course, it was Miss Stallard who spoke first.

Dear Margaret she said, in one of her

audible whispers, 'will you not ask your father

to change his wet boots ? and his coat must be

damp, it is quite steaming

Thanks, Miss Katie, for your thoughtfulness,'
interrupted Dr. Ainslie. ' Of course, I ought to
know better. Margaret, my dear, you are a
good girl to warm my slippers. I have had a
miserable day, and I want all the comfort I can
get.'

It was Katie who thought of the slippers,
father,' replied Margaret quietly.

Oh, never mind who did it,' returned Katie,
with a blush and a laugh. ' Do please go away,
Dr. Ainslie, and change your damp coat, and
you will find tea ready on your return. Now,'
in a bustling tone, as soon as he had left the
room, ' I am quite ready to help you, Margaret.
You know there is nothing that I enjoy more
than making myself useful. And I do love
playing at housekeeping ; it is so much more

372

interesting than teaching a lot of stupid little
girls.'

I thought you said the Moores were so quick
and clever,' observed Margaret, as she folded up
her work.

It struck Marjory that she would rather have
dispensed with Katie's help, but she was too
good-natured to refuse ; so they left the room
together, and Marjory could hear Miss Stallard
humming a little air gaily as she tripped to and
fro between the parlour and kitchen.

She was dreadfully busy she told Marjory,
in a laughing tone. ' Dear Margaret would have
burnt the cakes, as Alfred did, if she had not
reminded her that the oven was too hot

She came in with them in her hand presently,
and pretended to be shocked when she saw Dr.
Ainslie in his easy-chair, for her sleeves were
tucked up, showing her round dimpled arms to
the elbow.

But the doctor only smiled, and said she
was a beneficent fairy, and he was sure the
cakes were good ; and that Margaret must come
and pour out the tea, for he was getting very
impatient.

Marjory would have enjoyed the meal very

much if it had not been for Miss Stallard's fussy
attempts to bring herself into notice. She would
not sit still for more than a minute. Margaret
had a cold, and was tired, so she must jump upto
replenish the teapot ; and then there were
more cakes to be turned, and Jane could not be
trusted ; then there was no marmalade on the
table, and she knew Dr. Ainslie never liked his
tea without marmalade. And when he had confessed
that he had left his paper in his coat-pocket,
she must run and look for it.

It struck Marjory that Dr. Ainslie made a sort
of pet of this little girl, she was so fair and soft
and pretty ; and possibly he had not a strong dislike
to light eyelashes. Anyhow, he laughed at
her in an indulgent way, and made all sorts of
civil little speeches, taking very little notice of
his grave daughter, though Margaret's quiet eyes
followed his every movement. ' The little fairy,'
as he called her, was evidently a source of
amusement to him.

When Marjory rose to put on her cloak,
Margaret asked her father if he were too tired to
walk up with her to St. Kilda's ; but Marjory
instantly negatived this proposition. She knew
her way quite well, and she would not trouble

Dr. Ainslie to put on his boots again, all in a
very decided voice.

No, indeed ; it would be too cruel  would it
not, Miss Deane ?' broke in Katie. ' I would
rather walk with you myself, only dear Margaret
must have her French lessons : we have wasted
all the afternoon.'

Will not Mrs. Moore want you to go back,
Katie ?' asked Margaret gently. ' You are very
good, but I have promised to read to my father.'

Never mind,' returned Katie pleasantly; 'I
will finish the tea-cloths, and it will be such a
treat to sit and listen to you ; no one ever reads
to me. It is nothing but correcting exercises
and helping the children with their lessons all
the evening in that dull schoolroom. "What !
are you going, Miss Deane ? Jane would have
walked with you  would she not, Margaret ?
Still, if you do not mind, it is a pity to disturb
her in her ironing. No, Dr. Ainslie, do not
move ; I am going to the door with Miss Deane.
What is the good of a poor little governess if she
does not make herself useful ?' and Katie tripped
into the passage.

Good-night, and thank you, 'observed Marjory
coldly, as she went out. It was nearly seven ;

a raw cold, gusty evening, with a settled greyness
about it, for the light had not faded.

1 How I do dislike that little busybody !' she
said to herself somewhat uncharitably. ' She
is one of those dangerous people who imply more
than they say. It is my belief that she puts
Margaret in a wrong position. She would have
managed quite nicely, cakes and all, if that little
chatterton had not usurped her duties. I shall
hate the word " useful " from henceforth, because
it is always on her lips. I cannot understand why
people make such a fuss about her. Dr. Ainslie
took more notice of her than he did of me.'

Marjory's brief wrath soon evaporated as she
walked rapidly down the street. It was the
first time she had found herself alone, and it
was with a sense of strangeness that she looked
round her in the grey half-twilight. The rain
had ceased, but the heavy clouds were scudding
stormily across the sky. The bare ruins of
St. Kilda's Castle looked desolate in the murky
light, and the dark wood above Mavisbank
made a gloomy background. There was no
one in sight ; not even a dog barked to break
the supreme sense of quietness. Marjory had a
curious feeling as she looked up at the closed

windows of Mavisbank. She felt like a belated
ghost entering her rightful home in the gloaming.
Within there was warmth, comfort, a fireside
circle ; and she outside, with that dreadful
secret lying like a stone on her heart.

Oh, what nonsense !' she said to herself, as
she knocked loudly.

Mr. Wentworth would open the door to her
she knew that ; and she had a smile ready
for him as he threw it back.

How late you are, Marjory!' in quite a
vexed voice from Lilies.

My dear, w T e have been expecting you for
the last half-hour. Hurrell was just starting in
search of you,' in Mrs. Carr's gentle tones.

I am so sorry ' began Marjory, coming

forward into the light, while Mr. Wentworth
bolted the great oak door behind her, and then
she stopped ; and surely she was in a dream.

They were all gathered round the fire, just as
she had left them ; but who was that gentleman,
with iron-grey whiskers and short silvery hair,
who was coming forward to meet her with a
smile of greeting on his face ?

'Are you so surprised to see me?' he said,
laughing at her, and taking her hand ; and

there was a quick gleam in his dark eyes. ' My
dear, you look almost like a ghost stealing upon
us out of that windy darkness. And how are
you ? and what have you to say to me, Marjory
Daw r

THE NEW GUEST AT M A VI SB AN K.

gE.FEEEE,howy<ro have startled me!'
that was all Marjory could say for
some minutes ; but she had turned
very pale at the sight of him, and there was an
odd, wistful look in her eyes ; and it was not
altogether pleasure with which she seemed to
regard this new-comer.

But if he saw this  and what was there that
escaped his scrutiny ?  he took no notice ; only,
instead of relinquishing her hand, he drew her
gently towards the fire, with the remark that
even ghosts liked warmth, but not too much of
it, at which Barry laughed.

Do you know, Marjory,' he continued with
his usual easy manner, as he placed a chair for
her, ' that I consider myself an ill-used individual

? The Black Bull is a capital inn  a
very capital inn  I took quite a liking to the
landlord; but nothing will do for these hospitable
friends of yours but my portmanteau  a
very shabby one  must be fetched away ; and
here I am, a free-born Englishman, shorn of my
liberty, deprived of all lounging bachelor rights,
and condemned to lead a civilized life for the
next few days

Do you mean,' asked Marjory, in a low
voice, ' that you are to stay at Mavis-bank
r

Of course Mr. Frere is to stay,' interrupted
Mrs. Carr, in laughing tones. ' Does he suppose
for one moment that we should leave him in
that dreary inn, to enjoy Mr. atkinson's notions
of comfort, when there are spare rooms here
which it will be a charity to fill ? Think what
a boon it will be to us all, Marjory, to have someone
fresh to amuse us !'

1 When did he arrive ?' she asked, in the
same curiously low tones.

Evidently the presence of this old friend had
a subduing influence on her. Mrs. Carr looked
up quickly at the girl as she answered :

1 It must have been two hours ao. Lilies

had just rang for tea, when there was a loud
knock, and Mr. Frere came in. I am obliged to
confess that he gave us a great deal of trouble
before he would allow Fleming to fetch his
portmanteau ; but he was not proof against two
women's coaxing, and so, of course, w T e triumphed,'
with a pleasant smile at her guest.

It was I who put the finishing stroke,
mother dear,' observed Lilies merrily; for,
strange to say, Mr. Frere had remained silent
after his little speech. i You were losing ground
very plainly, I could see that, when I said how
pleased Marjory would be to see him sitting in
Cosy Nook, and of course that settled it.
Hurrell sent Fleming off the next minute, and
ever since then he has been praising up the
Black Bull.'

Marjory smiled. She quite knew how Mr.
Frere would talk, and the pleasure with which
they would listen to him.

You are all dressed for dinner, and I shall
be late,' she said, starting up ; and, without
another glance, she disappeared behind the
screen.

1 am afraid you arc disappointed in Marjory's
appearance,' observed Mrs. Oarr rather

anxiously; for her guest was looking grave  very
grave indeed, and a sort of smothered sigh had
escaped him as the girl left the hall. ' You will
not give us credit for our care of her ; but I
have taken it into my head that the air of
St. Hilda's is a little too keen for her. In
another few weeks it will be better.'

1 She is looking thin,' was the reply. ' Perhaps
the air does not suit her ; and yet Marjory
is very hardy. If she be willing to go south
with nie, we shall be only too glad to get her
back.'

Oh, we cannot spare her yet!' returned
Mrs. Carr, in an alarmed tone. ' We have
grown so fond of her ; she seems to belong tous
somehow. Lilies and she are such companions,
and even Barry will miss her. Indeed,
we cannot let you have her just yet !'

You are very good,' he answered quietly.
1 Anne tells me you are all spoiling her child ;
but, all the same, she is very grateful to you.
Please do not mention this to Marjory for a day
or two. If she does not wish to come home
with me, I will leave her with you a little
longer.'

'That is generous on your part, and we will

THE NE W Gl EST A T MA J 1SBANK.

promise not to be selfish,' she returned, with a
winning smile.

She had taken a fancy to this keen-eyed,
clever-looking Mr. Frere. She thought that
even a girl might learn to care for him, notwithstanding
his grey hairs. There was a certain
freshness of youth about him, in spite of his
whimsical bachelor ways, and a latent strength
and quiet intensity of purpose under that careless,
easy-going manner. Indeed, before the
evening was over, Mrs. Carr had quite made up
her mind that Mr. Frere was one of the most
fascinating men she had ever met.

He was certainly a little abstracted at times.
Now and then his rapid, discursive talk died
away rather unaccountably into silence ; but it
was always when Marjory spoke, or when her
light step passed by him. A keen observer
would have noticed those quiet, searching
glances that followed the girl as she swept
through the old hall ; how, under the shading
hand, his eyes rested on her face as she sang
with her companions or talked to Barry. But
no one could have guessed the sudden contraction
of pain that seemed to grip his heart as he
watched her. He had not been prepared to see

this change iu her. What would Anne say if
she saw her darling now ? The beautiful young
face had grown sharp and thin with some secret
anguish. When she laughed and talked it was
the old Marjory. It was only when she was
silent, when her features were still, that the
subtle change was perceptible  a hardening of
the lines round the mouth, a set look, a deeper
shadow in the honest brown eyes, which looked
as if they did not always sleep well. All this
was plainly visible to the friend who had watched
her face from infancy, and had grown to love it
as a man loves the face of a woman who is
dearer to him than life.

It seemed to Mrs. Carr that Marjory was
rather reserved with her old friend, that she
spoke very little to him, and did not once place
herself beside him. She had demanded the home
news at the dinner-table, and he had answered
all her questions in a pleasant, good-natured
way. But there had been no attempt on Marjory's
part to secure him for a quiet tete-astute, though
it would have been easy to find a secluded nook
in the great hall. On the contrary, she seemed
to have avoided any opportunity for private talk.
She had kept her place at the piano the greater

part of the evening, and had then taken refuge
by Barry's couch. Was it possible that she
could have been afraid of him ? Mrs. Carr felt
herself puzzled by the girl's behaviour.

Marjory could not have explained the sudden
terror that she felt at the sight of Mr. Frere.
He had kept his word, and had followed her to
make sure that things were well with her. Was
it not for her to feel grateful for such devotion ?
Why did she dread so much those keen, yet
kindly looks, that seemed always questioning
her ? Why would he not understand that it was
freedom she wanted  freedom to think her own
thoughts and indulge in her own miserable reflections,
out of reach of even loving supervision ? To
be alone with him  oh, that was what she most
dreaded! and yet, with the strangest contradiction,
she had never felt so fond and proud of him as
she had that night. She had never been so
conscious of his power over her.

Even when he wished her good-night, and her
hand was resting in his, she seemed only anxious
to escape.

k Marjory,' he had said, watching her varying
colour and downcast eyes, * I have not had a
word with you yet. To-morrow we must have

one of our old walks together ; and you must
show nie your pet antipathy, Miss Stallard, and
this wonderful Dr. Margaret Ainslie, and your
grand ruined castle, and the seat in the wood,
and all the St. Hilda's curiosities, animate and
inanimate

1 Oh yes, we will come. Lilies and I will
take you everywhere,' she answered, wilfully
mistaking his meaning, that they two should
have one of their old tete-a-tetes. She looked upas
she spoke, and was a little dismayed at the
amused, half-pitying look with which he was
regarding her. It said so plainly : ' Poor child,
I see you have grown afraid of me ; but what
are your simple girlish purposes compared to my
man's will ? Do you think, for all your poor
little plots, that you can escape me ?' And
Marjory hung her head, and blushed almost as
though she were a child.

But he took no notice of her confusion, and
only wished her a most kindly good-night ; and,
at breakfast the next morning he mystified her
still more by addressing himself to her friend,
and begging Lilies to assist her in her difficult
duties of cicerone, for the sun was shining, and
there was a pleasant warmth in the atmo-

vol. 11. ;> s

sphere, and a walk would be delightful ; and he
quite longed to see the outside of the Black
Bull again, and the moon shaped face of Mr.
Atkinson.

Lilies seemed reluctant to accede to this polite
request.

1 1 am sure Marjoiy can show you everything,'
she returned. * Don't you know the old adage,
Mr. Frere, " Two are company and three arc
none ?

1 That is too bad,' interrupted Marjory eagerly,
1 when I have made a third at least a dozen
times with you and Mr. Wentworth,' at which
Lilies blushed and looked wicked, and Marjory
grew suddenly hot, as though she had made an
awkward speech, and yet was hardly aware of
what she had said, only she felt angry with
herself, and Mr. Frere looked at them both with
calmly amused eyes.

Nothing pleases me more than to controvert
popular sayings. Besides, I can cap that
proverb with another: " The more the merrier''
I am sure, Miss Carr, that your presence will
greatly add to our merriment.'

I meant to have driven you out this afternoon,'
she replied, a little vexed at his pertinacity,

for Lilies always knew when she was
wanted, ' but you and Marjory must have so
much home news to discuss that I know I shall
be in the way

But Marjory and I do not know it, do we V
with a friendly glance at Marjory. ' This is not
my last day at Mavisbank, and home news has
already been retailed. I am in a sociable mood
this morning, and one auditor will not satisfy
me;' and after that Lilies was compelled to
yield.

Marjory looked up in his face a little timidly.
Had she hurt him last night ? she thought.
Had her reluctance to take a solitary walk with
him been so plainly visible. But no, there was
no resentment in the kind look that met hers.

Go and get ready, Marjory Doo he said to
her, and he put his hand gently on her arm.
There was a nervous excitability about the girl
this morning that needed to be soothed. He
must make her more at ease with herself and
him, he thought, before he dared to probe the
secret wound ever so lightly.

Lilies thoroughly enjoyed her walk, and came
home in the highest spirits ; and even Marjory
looked more like her cheerful self. Mr. Frere

382

had been charming, Lilies told Barry. He had
talked to them and made them laugh with his
humorous anecdotes. He would see everything:
the' had been to the castle and the Black Bull,
and into the church. And they had called at the
Vicarage and seen Katie ; and Margaret was there,
and Mr. Frere had had a long talk with her, and
afterwards with the Vicar ; and no wonder they
were late for luncheon, when Mr. Frere would
see all the children, and ask the name and age
of every one. And during luncheon he was just
as cheerful, and he and Lilies had more than
one argument. He was quite willing to be
driven over to Headlands, he told her, if he might
remain silent and criticize her driving ; but he
would have the back seat, and Marjory must be
in front. And what did they want with a groom,
when he was willing to open any number of gates
just to show his activity? and of course he gained
his point.

Lilies was the first to join him as he stood at
the open hall-door waiting for the girls. He
regarded her rather quizzically as she came up
smiling and drawing on her gauntlet gloves.

1 You do not look much of a Jehu he said
quietly.

Lilies blushed and looked a little guilty.

She was dressed charmingly in a dark blue
velvet gown that fitted her to perfection, and her
fair hair looked bright as gold under her close
little velvet hat. Mr. Frere was quite aware
that the gown had been made in Paris as soon
as he saw it. Lilies, who generally dressed very
quietly, though in perfect taste, was evidently
bent on appearing to the best advantage. Her
vanity was so innocent and transparent that he
could not refrain from a half smile.

The rain has laid the dust, and I shall be
well covered up,' she said hurriedly. ' You think
me extravagant, Mr. Frere. Oh, I can read your
thought  I am very quick at that. But Mrs.
Wentworth will be so pleased to see this. It is
her favourite gown, and one must please other
people sometimes,' finished Lilies, a little
lamely.

It is my favourite dress, too,' returned Mrs.
Can gently. ' You never look so well in anything
else, darling.' There was a gleam of
amusement in her eyes, too, as though she knew
some one else had praised the velvet gown ; but
the little by-play was lost upon Mr, Frere, for
there was Marjory coming across the hall in her

brown dress; and how could Lilies, charming and
piquante as she was, compare with this girl, who
carried her head so proudly, and yet walked with
such a careless grace ? Mrs. Oarr caught his
admiring glance. ' She is very handsome ; she
grows handsomer, I think,' she whispered. ' But
it is her carriage that astonishes me so ; few girls
walk so well

1 1 have never seen anyone walk like Marjory,'
he returned, ' unless it is yourself, Mrs. Can*.
Marjory's carriage resembles yours. I was struck
by that last night.'

'How strange!' she answered, smiling; and
the little compliment pleased her, for a beautiful
woman must always be pleased with admiration,
though no one was really more free from vanity.
Marjory looked at them both rather gravely as she
passed. It was a good thing Mr. Frere's speech
did not reach her, or her composure would have
been ruffled.

In another moment Lilies's voice w r as heard
chiding him for his delay, and he had taken his
place behind them with many apologies.

But he was not silent  far from it. On the
contrary, he had so much to say that Baby
was almost left to her own devices, and the

drive was quite as pleasant as the morning
walk.

The young squire was not at the bridge this
time ; neither was he waiting at the door to
receive them. It was quite half an hour before
he made his appearance in his mother's drawing-room.
Lilies was presiding at the little tea-table,
while Mr. Frere talked to Mrs. Went worth,
when he came in, looking heated and tired,
having ridden in haste from St. Theobald's.

But the sight of Lilies in her velvet gown,
pouring out his tea, evidently drove away all
fatigue. A glow of pleasure came to his face ashe
sat down beside her, and said a few words to
her in a low voice. Indeed, he did not leave her
side during the remainder of the visit. They
went out into the garden presently, for Mr.
Wentworth wanted to show Lilies some new
flower-beds ; and as they walked down the
terrace Marjory found herself alone with Mr.
Frere.

4 We will follow them a little slowly,' he said,
with a light restraining touch on her arm. ' One
sees what all that means so clearly. Let that
poor fellow have her to himself for a moment.'

I SAY, POOR WENTWORTH !'

AEJOEY was a little amused by this
remark.

You have not found that out for
yourself,' she said, with a touch of malice. 'Of
course you have read my letters to Anne, which
were strictly private, and were not meant for your
eyes ; and so you have found out all my little
secrets V

No, not quite all he answered lightly; and
Marjory winced perceptibly, for she was certain
there was a slight emphasis on the last word ; ' but
I have found out one thing  that this Mr. Wentworth
is a capital fellow, one of the right sort
for making a woman happy ; and I hope your
friend will soon see things in the proper light.'

I hope so too ; but I am half afraid of
Lilies.'

That is because you have no experience, my
dear,' he answered. ' Now, if you were to ask
me, I should say there are certain signs of an
impending crisis. Straws show which way the
wind blows : so when a young lady takes the
trouble to put on a becoming velvet gown,
which is not at all suited to your country roads,
it is not to please you or me, or even that
dignified chatelaine we have just left. Mark
my words, Marjory ! I am an acute observer :
I saw a pleased gleam in that young man's eye
when he saw that gown. Miss Can* is not
quite so innocent as you think.'

4 Lilies is no coquette!' answered Marjory
indignantly.

My dear child, every woman is a conscious
or unconscious coquette. They begin young,
Marjory : a baby will point out its blue shoes
and sash to any intelligent old gentleman. You
never had a new frock yourself without showing
to me promptly.'

1 You do not call yourself an old gentleman,
I hope,' with a quick scorn in ber voice.

No, not old ; but I might be younger,'

with a half-sigh ; ' but I am ready to take a
large amount of interest in your charming friend.
If I knew Mr. Wentworth better  if I were ina
position to speak  I should say to him, " My
good fellow, yon are a little too patient and
long-suffering. Women are kittle cattle  they
want a strong hand over them. Let her know
what you mean pretty plainly, and bid her makeup
her mind one way or the other." Depend
upon it, Marjory, she likes him too well to give
him up.'

1 1 think so myself ; but Lilies is not like
other girls. She seems so afraid of losing her
liberty ; her home life is so precious to her, that
she dreads giving it up. Mrs. Carr is the rival
that Mr. Wentworth has to fear

Oh, that is nonsense !' he answered quickly.
A girl's mother would never hinder her marrying
; such different affections could not clash.
It is just a girl's whim  nothing but self-will,
and a desire to test her power over her lover.'

You are quite wrong,' persisted Marjory,
speaking with her old animation ; ' I have been
angry myself with Lilies, but I know she is not
like that. Oh, you may T take my word for it,
girls understand each other, and Lilies is as

transparent as crystal. She is riot so happy as
she makes out ; she is fighting against herself
and him. She wants impossible things  to
have her home life and him too ; she cannot
make up her mind to exchange Mavisbank for
Headlands.'

Then he must show her by his behaviour
that he will expect a decided answer, one way
or another ; that will cure her of vacillation.
He is a good-tempered fellow, one can see that ;
but he must contrive to get up a scene and
frighten her. Oh, your remarks were very true,
Marjory ; they made me smile when I read
them. But I said to myself, " This Wentworth
must have a poor spirit, if he could not
bring this wilful young lady to reason, when it
is evident that she likes him all the time' '

Marjory was silent ; but she looked at the
two figures before her with a half-curious, half-tender
gaze. Mr. Wentworth was a noble lover,
she thought  so patient and gentle : any girl
might be proud of such constancy. ' Loyal je
serais durant ma vie ' was indeed his motto.
Would anyone ever care for her in that way ? A
fleeting sigh escaped her as she turned to Mr.
Frere. He had been watching her ; but now he

resumed his cheerful talk. They had slid, unconsciously
on her part, into their old ways ;
there was no painful embarrassment in her
manner now.

Well,' he said brightly, ' I am much taken
with your new friend, Dr. Margaret Ainslie. I
was very much pleased with her this morning.
She is more feminine than I thought; she keeps
her learning in the background. You have
shown very good taste, Marjory, in this new
friendship of yours.'

Marjory coloured up with gratification. She
was never quite happy unless this friend of hers
agreed with her.

Oh she remarked, in a pleased voice, l you
will see her again this evening. Margaret dines
at Mavisbank to-nights

I am glad to hear it,' he returned heartily.
1 If I had not already lost my heart to Mrs.
Can* and this charming Lilies, I could have
found a corner for Miss Ainslie. I could have
dispensed with the spectacles, perhaps ; but
then we cannot expect perfection in this world.
She has a beautiful mouth  have you noticed
that ?  and her smile is just what a smile ought
to be.'

1 1 have begun to think her very nice-looking ;
but, Mr. Frere, you must give me your opinion
of Miss St al lard

He made a little grimace.

 She is too sleek and soft for my taste ; she
treads as gingerly as a cat on broken glass. One
might as well pronounce an opinion on a
mummy.'

What do you mean by that ?' she asked,
laughing.

It is very plain,' he answered seriously ; 'we
cannot penetrate through all these wrappings to
get at the real article. The cat's fur does not
cling to the creature more closely than Miss
Stallard's pretty mannerisms cling to her. These
soft creatures have concealed claws sometimes :
oue of these days Miss Stallard may show hers

Marjory had no time to express her approval
of this sentiment, which certainly coincided
with her own ; for at that moment Mr. Wentworth
and Lilies joined them.

Mr. Frere,' she asked, a little eagerly, ' do
you drive ? Do you think you could drive
Ruby '?'

Well,' he returned, looking benignantly at
her bright face, ' I believe I can drive as well

as most ordinary folk who have little practice.
Whose neck do you wish to place in jeopardy ?
your own or Marjory's ?'

1 It is just this she replied quickly: 'Hurrell
wants to come back with us to dinner, and we
must not make the phaeton too heavy for Ruby ;
she gets ill-tempered at that. So I thought if
you would kindly drive Marjory, Hurrell would
take me in his dog-cart, and then poor Ruby
will be eased.'

1 An excellent idea ! What do you say,
Marjory ?'

What could she say, with Mr. Went worth's
eyes fixed on her so anxiously, except to agree
that it was a very good idea indeed ? Nevertheless,
Mr. Frere was quite conscious that her
face had clouded a little. While Mr. Went worth
hurried off to the stables, she stood by silently
while Lilies chatted with Mr. Frere. Lilies had
so many orders to give him about Ruby. If she
shied a little, that was only her playfulness, and
he must take no notice of that ; and she always
liked going home so much that perhaps her pace
would astonish him ; and he must lead the way,
for Ruby had a jealous temper, and would not
follow another equipage with any degree of

meekness. There was no end to her directions.


1 1 hope you will remember all this, Marjory
he said, in a resigned voice. i I shall never get
you safely to St. Kilda's, I am afraid ;' but all the
same, Marjory knew she could trust him. He
had driven her and Anne before, and she remembered
how pleasant those drives had been, and
how happily they had come home in the summer
twilight, with the stars just peeping through the
dusky blue above their heads, and the smell of
the gorse in the air, and the dark fir woods looking
black in the faint light.

She need not have troubled herself so much
about that solitary drive with him. Mr. Frere
talked a good deal, but it was all on general
subjects. He had just finished an article for the
Quarterly, and he wanted to tell Marjory about
it. And he had a great deal to say about
Headlands and Mrs. Went worth, and what a
distinguished-looking woman she was, but far
inferior, in his opinion, to Mrs. Carr. Marjory
soon forgot her fears, and listened to him as
happily as ever.

She expressed a little surprise, when they
reached Mavisbauk, that they did not hear the

wheels of the dog-cart coming up the hill.  Mr.
Wentworth's mare can go faster than Ruby,' she
said, in a perplexed tone.

I dare say her speed depends on her master's
will,' was the significant answer ; and then
Fleming opened the door, and they went into
the hall, with its pleasant firelight shining as
usual on Mrs. Carr's velvet gown as she sat in
her favourite chair talking to Miss Ainslie.

Where is Lil ?' asked Barry, rousing up from
his book as Marjory went up to Margaret. She
was looking very nice this evening, Marjory
thought. She wore black silk, with a good deal
of Spanish lace ; and surely it was not Margaret
who had fastened in that knot of scarlet geranium
and maiden-hair, which gave her just the colour
she needed.

'My dear, what have you done with Lilies ?'
chimed in Mrs. Carr.

She will be here directly. Mr. Wentworth
is driving her in his dog-cart. They must have
loitered on their way, for we did not even hear
the wheels. Mr. Wentworth wanted to dine
here this evening, and there was no room for us
all in the phaeton.'

Mrs. Can* seemed perfectly satisfied with this

arrangement, but it struck Marjory that Miss
Ainslie looked a little nervous and perturbed.
It might have been her fancy, for the next
moment she was speaking in her ordinary
manner. Surely Margaret was not such a
recluse that the presence of an old friend should
disturb her serenity ; but what did that sudden
flush on her face mean?

Shall I come up with you ?' she said in a
low voice, as Marjory would have passed her ;
and as Marjory willingly acceded to this, the
girls went upstairs together.

Marjory was more than half dressed when she
heard Lilies's light footsteps passing her room,
and opened her door, with a laughing word at
her delay.

I am very late  do not keep me !' replied
Lilies hurriedly, turning her face away as the
light flashed across the passage ; but not before
Marjory had seen that her eyes were wet, and
that there were tears running down her face.

Oh, Lilies !' she pleaded, ' do stay a moment,
and let me speak to you.'

But Lilies shook her head and went into her
own room ; and Marjory, surprised and pained,
went back to Margaret.

vol. 11. 39

She thought that Mrs. Carr looked a little
anxious when they went downstairs; she was
sitting gazing into the lire and taking no notice
of her guest, who with his usual tact was talking
to Barry. Mr. Wentworth was standing
moodily hy the mantelpiece ; he came forward
and shook hands with Margaret, and said a few
words to her very gravely. But Marjory was
shocked to see how pale and harassed he looked;
all the light and animation seemed to have died
out of his face ; he looked heavy and sombre 
quite different to the bright young squire who
had gone off whistling merrily to order his dogcart.
There was plainly something very much
amiss, and it threw a gloom over the little
circle.

Lilies is so late that I think we had better
begin dinner,' observed Mrs. Carr presently.

And then they all seated themselves round the
cheerful table, with its pink-shaded candles and
flowers ; and what must Mr. Frere do but start
one of his long harangues on the government of
India, which required nothing but monosyllabic
replies from the rest of the party.

He had fairly launched into his subject, and
the soup and lish had been removed when Lilies

glided into the room  still in her blue velvet
gown, and only her fair hair smoothed a little,
as though she had forgotten to change her dress.
A place had been left for her between Mr. Frere
and Marjory, for Mr. Went worth had seated
himself by Margaret. Marjory stole a quick
glance at her. Lilies was pale  very pale, she
thought  and her eyelids were red, as though
she had been weeping. It was impossible not
to notice that the food was sent away untasted
on her plate. But if Mr. Went worth saw all
this, it did not move him from his stern apathy.
He began talking to Margaret, quite ignoring
the Eastern Question. He was asking her about
some people to whom he wished to send relief ;
and did she think Canada would be a good
opening for the eldest son, who was a likely
fellow and understood farming ? And all the
time he talked, he kept his eyes fixed moodily
on his plate.

Mr. Frere was doing his part gallantly. He
must have quoted whole pages from his article
in the Quarterly Review before Marjory had the
presence of mind to come to his relief. Mrs.
Carr was too anxious to join in their talk ; but
Barry tried to argue the matter a little from his

392

couch, but his voice was so weak that Mr.
Frere silenced him promptly.

Miss Ainslie was not enjoying her tete-astute
with Mr. Wentworth. Every now and then she
coloured painfully, and gave him a timid glance,
as though begging him to desist from his efforts
to entertain her ; but it was evidently his intention
to speak to no one else, and he plodded
through a long description of some model farm
he had lately visited. Margaret, who was rather
ignorant on such subjects, had nothing to say
in return ; so she merely bent her grand head
and listened.

It was quite a relief when their hostess gave
the signal to the ladies to rise. Mrs. Carr
waited at the door for Lilies ; and as soon as
they were outside, she put her arm round the
girl, and drew her towards the staircase.

1 You have tired yourself out  you have one
of your headaches,' she said aloud, for the
benefit of the gentlemen within.

Shall I wish you good-evening, Mrs. Carr ?'
observed Mr. Wentworth, approaching them with
a gloomy expression. ' My dog curt will be
round directly ; and, as Lilies has a headache
' not looking at her, however.

Oh yes, I have a headache said the poor
girl, stretching out a cold hand to him ; but he
did not seem to see it  only turned away with
an inclusive good-night to the party.

Oh, mother !' Marjory heard her say, in quite
n heart-broken tone. Margaret must have heard
it too.

Come, darling, come ! there is a fire in my
room,' returned Mrs. Carr tenderly.

A sort of dull anguish smote Marjory as she
looked after them in the dim light. They were
walking slowly upstairs hand in hand, and
Lilies's hair brushed Mrs. Carr's shoulder.

 Why do you look like that ? Is there anything
dreadful the matter T asked Margaret, in
an alarmed voice ; and her lips looked very pale.

1 Oh ! it is only a lovers' quarrel ?' returned
Marjory, with a forced unnatural laugh. ' Those
two have fallen out. I dare say they will make
it up tomorrow. How cold it is !  and yet it
is May ; we are both shivering. Let us go back
to Cosy Nook ; Mr. Frere will soon join us

Marjory was wrong. Mr. Frere did not join
them for another hour. Fleming brought them
some coffee, and told Marjory that Barry was
tired and had gone to his room, and the two

gentlemen were Sinking in the conservatory,
[t was quite late before the wheels of the dogcart
sounded under the window, and they could
hear Mr. Wentworth's voice bidding Mr. Frere
good-night. Margaret had put on her cloak, for
her servant was waiting for her. She only
lingered until Mr. Went worth had driven off, and
then she said good-bye to Marjory.

Marjory stood thoughtfully leaning against the
high carved mantelpiece. She had no idea what
a picture she made in Mr. Frere 's eyes, as he
closed the door behind him. For months afterwards
the recollection of that evening crossed
him in summer twilights or on moonlight nights.
The warm gleams of light thrown over the old
hall, with the solitary girlish figure in the white
gown, standing with bent head and tightly clasped
hands; the deep, unspoken sadness of the eyes as
she raised them to his face  as pathetic as the
eyes of a lost child who has strayed back to find
its home in ruins ; the beautiful little head, so
heavily weighted with its dark hair  not carried
in its old, proud fashion, but drooping forward a
little.

Marjory had lost herself in her weary musings.
She had no conception of the rush of tenderness

that filled her friend's heart as he watched ; butin
another moment he had stepped up to her,
and had laid his hand upon her shoulder.

You are in one of your old brown studies,'
he said gently. ' Do you remember how I caught
you dreaming one day with an east wind blowing
round you ? It is time, is it not, for you to be
dreaming on your pillow '?'

Is it so late ?' she answered, starting a little.
Margaret has only just gone. AYhat a strange
evening it has been ! Poor Mr. Wentworth looks
dreadfully unhappy ! I hope'  glancing at him
n little timidly, tor his intent look rather troubled
her  'that you have contrived to comfort him.'

The comfort does not lie in my hands,
unfortunately," he returned gravely. 'He is
very much broken down, poor fellow ; and,
though I was a stranger, he gave me his confidence.
It is droll, is it not, Marjory, for a dry
old fellow like me to be the recipient of a lover's
confidence ?'

Oh no !' she answered quickly ; ' you are
always so good to people in trouble. I knew he
would tell you all about it, and how kindly
and patiently you would listen. I am sure you
would ive him the best advice.'

The question is whether he will take it.
Your friend Lilies has been very naughty 
very naughty indeed, Marjory ; and it is my
opinion that he ought to punish her.'

He will never do that she replied confidently.


That remains to be proved. If he take my
advice, he will tree himself from her thraldom
and assert himself. There will be no hope for
either of them unless he becomes her master.
Naughty children, who do not know their own
minds, must taste of the rod of correction. If
he take my advice, well and good ; but in this
crazy world most men prefer setting up their
own finger-posts.'

1 Poor Lilies F sighed Marjory.

Come, that is too bad  I will not have yon
side with the offender. I say, poor Wentworth!
to be tormented by that little witch. Do you
know, Marjory, I am half sorry to see the wealth
of love that is lavished on that little pale-faced
girl.'

What do you mean ?' she asked, rather
frightened at his tone.

'I think,' he returned slowly, 'that it is a
great pity so many hearts are set on her. She

is very delicate, Marjory. I do not believe her
mother or lover sees it. She is so bright that

she deceives their ; but I have noticed ' but

here he stopped.

'Tell me what you were going to say!' she
implored anxiously. ' I know r she is delicate.
She cannot walk up-hill ; and she once told me
that she was sure her heart was weak, for, when
anything excited her, she had palpitations ; but
she begged me not to mention this to Mrs. Carr.'

Just so !' he returned, in a significant voice.
She is so active and full of spirit, that no
wonder they are deceived. I tried to hint something
of this to Went worth. " Miss Carr is not
strong. I think she has more spirit than strength."
That was what I said to him, Marjory. Do you
know, he contradicted me. He said : " Oh, you
think that, because she has a pale complexion ;
but she is never ill. Oh no ; Lilies is never
ill. A headache now and then, what does that
signify ?" But, Marjory, I could tell at one
glance that she does not inherit her mother's
superb constitution.'

Marjory was silent. A cold fear was creeping
over her. What if Lilies, cherished and beloved
as she was, had inherited her mother's feeble,

organization? She remembered Mrs. Chard's

attacks, and a shiver crossed her.

4 You are cold, my dear observed Mr. Frere,
taking her hand. ' I have filled your mind with
gloomy fancies, instead of bidding you goodnight.
You must go now, Marjory, for you look
quite pale and tired. To-morrow ' and here
there was a singular inflection in his tone  'you
and I will go out together, and we will not have
Miss Carr. And you shall take me to the scat
in the wood, and we will have one of our old
talks, for there must be nothing hidden between
you and me, my darling.'

END OF VOL. II.

KILLING LND "N>, PRINTERS, Ul'lLDKORD

CI. I

: m mmwMm :M3smMMxm

\ 

OF THE
U N I Verity
or ILLINOIS

%

V.3

m.MW

3i flobcL

BY

ROSA XOUCHETTE CAREY,

AUTHOR OF

WOOED AND MARRIED,' ' NOT LIKE OTHER GIRLS,'

'NELLIE'S MEMORIES,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

London :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

establishes in ordinary to ser itjcstj) the uccn.
1885.

[All Bights Reserved

CHAPTER

I. ' A DROPPED STITCH ' -
I. ' THEN WHY NOT CARE FOE ME ?'
III. ' I SHALL LIVE TO BE A VERY OLD WOMAN
IV. CROSS LIGHTS AND CROSS PURPOSES -
V. 'SHALL I BRING HIM TO YOU?'
VI. 'we MUST TAKE WHAT HEAVEN SENDS '
VII. 'MARJORY, I AM HERE*
Vin. 'life's FITFUL FEVER O'ER' -
IX. 'you WILL SPEAK OPENLY TO ME?' -
X. 'FOR Lilies' - - - -

XI. THE LETTER OVERLOOKED
Xn. HOPE DEFERRED

XIII. ' YOU KNEW ME BETTER !'

XIV. UNEXPECTED TIDINGS - - -
XV. ' IT WAS A TERRIBLE MISTAKE !'

XVI. 'will you FORGIVE YOUR MOTHER?'
XVII. CCHAPTER I.

A Dropped STITCH.'

"~HY does he call me his darling'

?/\l\BI     twice. He never
b6 used  not even when I was a child
she thought. But it was more than this that
made Marjory's cheek burn ; for Mr. Frere had
taken the little hand and raised it to his lips ;
and the unaccustomed caress, coming from the
friend whom she reverenced above all men, had
strangely embarrassed her.

Marjory had come to the conclusion that Mr.
Frere was very unlike himself that night he was
making her afraid of him. But as she reached

VOL. III. 4Q

the top of the staircase, she forgot him for the
moment ; for Mrs. Carr was closing her door
softly and coming forward to meet her. Marjory
would have spoken, but Mrs. Carr laid her hand
on her lips.

Hush !' she whispered, * she is asleep now ;
we must not wake her. She has been fretting
herself ill. I never saw her like this before,
and it quite frightened me. I will come into
your room, if I may, and then we can talk a little.'

Marjory followed her silently. Mrs. Can*
lighted the candles, and then seated herself on
the couch, and signed to the girl to place herself
beside her.

I have been very neglectful of my guests
this evening,' she said, smoothing her hair
caressingly.

Marjory trembled a little. The touch of her
mother's hand always excited, instead of soothing
her. Sometimes she dared not come near
her, lest her strong agitation should overmaster
her. j\rrs. Carr, as usual, misconstrued it.

You are cold,' she said kindly ; * will you
have your fire lighted ? Emma thought it
would be too warm for you this evening, but
perhaps she was wrong.'

Oh no, I am warm  quite warm,' returned
Marjory hurriedly. * Please tell me about Lilies.
I have been so anxious all the evening. I cannot
think what has taken place between her and
Mr. Wentworth.'

My dear,' she returned, with some emotion,

I am afraid Lilies has behaved very badly 
she has refused to marry Harrel'

Refused !  after all her encouragement of
him ?  impossible ! Oh, you must have mistaken
her ; she could not be so cruel as that !'

It amounts to a refusal  she will not be
engaged to him. After all these months, I may
say years, of devotion, she wants to go on as
they have been doing. He cannot make her
listen to reason.'

You must talk to her  you must indeed !'
exclaimed Marjory earnestly. ' Mr. Frere has
been giving Mr. Wentworth his advice.'

Do you know what he has told him T very
anxiously.

 He has advised him to be very firm. I know
he thinks Lilies has been naughty, and deserves
to be punished. He wants Mr. Wentworth to
assert himself, and not give in to her.'

Mr. Frere is quite right ; he is clear-sighted

402

and sensible. If Hnrrcll will only take this
advice, there may be some chance for their
future happiness. He spoils her dreadfully"  he
has spoiled her all these years, and she will not
believe that his anger will ever last more than
four-and-twenty hours. He always makes it up
the next day, and so she expects him tomorrow.'

 Do you mean that they have had these
scenes before T asked Marjory, rather aghast at
this.

Once or twice ; but from what I can gather,
Hurrell has never been quite so angry before.
He has frightened her  I can see that plainly.
She keeps saying that he will come tomorrow,
and ask her pardon for all the hard things he
has said ; but I hardly think she believes that
he will, she looks at me so piteously and asks
what I think.'

 If he takes Mr. Frere's advice, he will not
come.'

Then my poor darling will suffer. Marjory,
she does love him  she loves him dearly. She
is tormenting herself as well as him. She would
be engaged to ]him tomorrow, and happily, if
he would not press her to marry for a year or
two ; but Hurrell will not consent to this.'

Why not?' in a little surprise. 'If he cares
for her so much, a long engagement would not
matter

My dear, we are women  we do not know
how men feel about these things. Hurrell
told her that he considered they had been as
good as engaged the last two years, and she
could not deny the fact. He has cared for her
ever since she was sixteen. She is his one
thought  she is everything to him; she has
encouraged him ; she has accepted all his attentions
; there has been a tacit understanding
between them all this time ; and though I am
Lilies's mother, I must say Hurrell has been
hardly used.'

I think so too.'

There can be no doubt of that ; and I am
not surprised that his patience is exhausted, and
that he has at last risen up against such tyranny.
What is play to a girl, is death to a man. She
will not tell me all he said. He must have
uttered some very bitter things ; but he absolutely
refused to enter into any indefinite engagement;
there must be a specific arrangement
on her part that their marriage should not be
postponed beyond a few months. Lilies would

not agree to this ; and you know the rest.
Hurrell was too angry to open his mouth to her
again, and my poor child has nearly broken her
heart over it.'

The remedy lies in her own hands,' returned
Marjory a little coldly.

Yes, indeed ; one word would recall Hurrell
to his allegiance. But there was a look upon
his face to-night that ought to have warned
her. Soft-hearted as he is, I am afraid his
pride is too deeply wounded to be healed by
any show of penitence on her part, unless she
submits to his conditions.'

If he only keep firmly to them,' murmured
Marjory, who was rather dubious on this
point.

Mrs. Carr si died.

 Lilies is making herself quite ill over it.
Marjory, have you ever heard her complain of
palpitations before ? Do you know, I was quite
frightened ; her lips were blue, and I was obliged
to give her sal volatile. I had to use all my
authority to induce her to leave off talking, and
be quiet. She is sleeping with me to-night ; 1
feel so anxious about her, that I could not trust
her out of my sight.'

Ml'. Frere thinks she has more spirit than
strength was Marjory's cautious reply.

'My children take after their father,' returned
Mrs. Carr mournfully. ' Philip was very delicate
none of the Carrs were strong : they all died
in their prime. Sometimes I am afraid Lilies
has not a robust constitution. I have watched
her when she has been asleep, and it has grieved
me to see how fragile she looks ; but in the
daytime my fears leave me  she is so merry, so
full of life, so different to my poor boy Barry.'

But he is better,' interrupted Marjory
soothingly. * You said yourself, yesterday, that
he suffered far less than he did at Whitecliffe.'

Yes, yes; I must not be too anxious,' she
returned ; but there were tears in the beautiful
grey eyes, ' But I have only those two, and I
was left a widow early. Now, my dear, I have
burthened you enough with our troubles ; but you
are so affectionate and sympathetic, that I forget
you are not one of us.'

I could not love you more,' began Marjory,
in an agitated tone ; and then she stopped, and
turned very pale. What was she saying ?

I know you are fond of us,' returned Mrs.
Carr kindly, and she put her arms round the girl

ind kissed her. ' Good-night, my dear ; I am
ashamed of having kept you up so lon.' But
Marjory did not respond to her kisses ; only,
vhen she left the room, the poor girl hid her
face on her arms, and cried long and bitterly.

*"I forget sou are not one of us." Oh,
mother  mother ! how could you say that tome?'


When Marjory woke the next morning, the
rain was beating against the window-panes. She
lay and listened to it as though it were music ;
and her first thoughts were, that Mr. Frere
could not ask her to walk with him, and that
she would be safe from his questions this one
day. But if it had been bright sunshine, Mr.
Frere could not have looked more cheerful, ashe
stood on the rug reading his paper. Mrs.
Carr was already at the breakfast-table, but
Lilies's place was empty.

Marjory asked after her in a whisper.

She is better. She will be down presently,'
answered Mrs. Carr. ' You must not take any
notice if she is rather out of spirits this morning.
Mr. Frere, are you ready for your coffee  and
shall Marjory give jou a cutlet ?'

Mr. Frere laid down his paper, and was alert

and full of talk in a moment. If his hostess
looked a little grave and worn, and Marjory had
-dark lines under her eyes as though she had not
slept well, he took no notice of either fact.
There was an article on model lodging-houses
for artisans in the paper, which he told Marjory
would please Anne immensely, and he took a
great deal of pains to explain the whole plan
and design to them loth in his usual eloquent
way. Then he strayed a little to the subject
of poor-laws, which rather perplexed the two
women ; and, after that, he wound up with a
dissertation on the phonetic structure of language,
and the immense difficulty of producing a Cumbrian
glossary, to which they lent a very imperfect
attention.

You may observe,' he began, * that in the
phonetic structure of a language there is an
immense disadvantage and difficulty. The varying
powers of English characters, for example,
would produce abundant confusion, and the
socialism of the Cumbrian dialects gives ns
striking phenomena.'

Oh dear !' observed Marjory below her
breath, and a straggling little sunbeam of a
smile came to her lips.

Perhaps this was what Mr. Frere wanted, for
lie went on still more cheerfully :

During the European transit of the Hibemo-
Celts and Scandinavians, some great changes of
the labial organs took place. For example, the
Irish and Scandinavian languages lost the initial

v:

Mrs. Carr,' exclaimed Marjory in desperation,
and now all her dimples were in full play,
may I fetch my embroidery ? I shall be able
to get on nicely with it this wet morning, unless
Barry w-ants me to read to him.'

And though this was dreadfully rude on
Marjory's part, Mr. Frere did not in the least
resent it. He only took up his paper again, and
his eyes twinkled a little behind it.

Barry was occupied with his tutor, so Mai;iory
had full liberty for the morning. She and Mrs.
Carr worked a little silently until Lilies joined
them, and then they both made an effort to be
extremely cheerful.

Lilies looked pale, and seemed somewhat
depressed. She had letters to write, and when
they were finished she took up a book and placed
herself by the fire as though she were chilly.

But every now and then Marjory noticed that

she looked out anxiously at the falling rain,
and her mouth took sorrowful curves like a
child's. ' She is afraid the rain will keep him
away thought Marjory.

After luncheon the clouds showed signs of
breaking, and Mr. Frere announced his intention
of putting on his mackintosh and walking over to
Thorpe.

Lilies started, and a faint colour came into her
cheeks. He had not asked either her or Marjory
to accompany him.

It was far too wet for any but amphibious
animals,' he said ; but as he went to the door to
reconnoitre the prospect, she followed him.

You are going to Thorpe,' she said timidly.
Would you mind giving this little parcel to Mrs.
Wentworth ? It is the pattern she wanted for a
couvre-pied. I meant to have taken it to-day.'

'The rain will be a capital excuse,' he
answered cheerfully.

Oh yes ; it is far too wet,' she repeated rather
absently. * I hope you will stay and talk to hera
little  she will be so dull. And if you see
Mr. Wentworth '

But here she faltered, and her cheek became
very pink indeed.

Of course I shall see the sqmre,' he returned,
averting his eyes, for her confusion was very
great. ' I can give him any message you like
to send

Oh, I have no message,' she returned rather
piteously ; ' only I shall be glad if he would
let us know how poor Merrick is. Mother
and I think we shall be able to help him a
little, if he will only let us know more about
the case.'

And is that all ?' he asked, looking at her
kindly.

Oh, I have no message  no message at all,'
she returned hurriedly ; * only that about poor
Merrick.'

But as Mr. Frere went down the flooded
path, he told himself that no message could
have been plainer  it was bidding him come
and give her a full account of his protege,

'Poor little girl!' he said rather pityingly,
for the innocent sorrow in her eyes had touched
him in spite of himself; but all the same he
knew that she would look for the young squire
in vain.

It was a long, dreary afternoon, in spite of
all Marjory's efforts to entertain her friends.

She read aloud to them ; she talked to Barry ;
she poured out the tea, because Lilies complained
that her head ached ; and she made cheerful
remarks on the weather every now and then.
The rain had quite stopped, she said ; there
was a gleam of sunshine behind the castle ;
she was sure they would have a fine day on the
morrow ; Lilies must drive Mr. Frere over
to St. Theobald's, and show him the church, for
he was very learned about ecclesiastical architecture
 he had written an article on the restoration
of churches once, that had excited a great
deal of attention  and he would be so pleased
with St. Theobald's.

She was still talking about Mr. Frere, when
his footsteps were heard on the gravel underneath
the window, and she hastened to admit
him : for it was the quaint and friendly custom
at Mavisbank for any of the family to open the
outer door, and admit the guest into Cosy Nook ;
and it was rare indeed for Fleming to make his
appearance when they were gathered in the hall.
It was one of Mrs. Carr's large notions of hospitality
and service, which were often opposed to
mere conventionality.

Marjory received a pleasant smile, and then

lie came forward into the firelight. He was
alone, and a slide had fallen on Lilies's
face.

He did not speak to her. Perhaps, with his
usual tact, he was waiting]: for her to recover
from her disappointment. He had messages to
deliver from the chatelaine of Headlands, as he
called her, both to Mrs. Carr and Marjory ; and
he had a great deal to say about the wetness of
the roads, and the effect of the rain-clouds on
the hills ; and then, by-and-by, he addressed
Lilies quite casually.

Mr. Wentworth will write about the Mcy-
bricks to your mother,' he said, apparently
apostrophizing the fire. ' He is very busy just
now  extremely busy ; one of his farms has
changed hands, and there are repairs wanted.
If he does not come for a day or two, you must
not be surprised.'

Hurrell is a good business man,' interrupted
Mrs. Carr hurriedly. ' Of course we must not
expect him if he be busy.'

She spoke quickly, to shield her daughter.

Lilies's lip was quivering, and there was a
misty look in her oats. Hurrell too busy to
come to her when she wanted him so!  to write

to her mother and not to her !  oh, then he
must be angry with her indeed !

LiHas, daring, I wish you would put my
knitting straight for me; I have dropped a stitch
somewhere.'

And as Lias rose silently, and knelt down
by Mrs. Carr's chair to rectify the work, her face
was in shadow, and no one noticed that the tears
were falling one by one on the fleecy wool.

A dropped stitch !' observed Mr. Frere, in a
musing tone. ' What a moral is conveyed in
those two words ! One little mistake  a single
stitch lost  and the whole work is unravelled,
marred, and out of harmony. I hope you will
pick it up. Miss Carr ; there is not often time
to be lost in remedying this sort of mistake.
My sister taught me this ; women are philosophers
sometimes. Don't you remember, Marjory,
how Anne used to say that of all things
she dreaded a dropped stitch T

THEN WHY NOT CARE FOR ME ?'

['JfAPv.JOPiY's prognostication of the
I ll weather was correct. When she woke



=s:i:/;nf the next morning, the sunshine lay on
the dewy hewn, and the birds were singing in
the Mavis Woods as though clouds and rain and
sorrowful hearts were unknown in their little
world.

It reminded Marjory of her first morning,
when she went up the dark paths, and found the
squire in his woodman's dress, working in the
little dell. * If this be vanity,' she could hear
him singing. Poor Mr. Wentworth ! she thought ;
he would be scarcely in the mood to sing that
song now.

A pang of sincere pity crossed her when she
came downstairs, and saw Lilies's pale face and

tired eyes. But Lilies was not to be pitied. She
was talking as fast as ever to Mr. Frere, and
laughing at him in her old way. And she would
not be quiet  no, not for a moment. But if a
dog barked, or there was the least sound outside,
she started nervously, and her hands trembled.

Marjory,' she said presently, when she had
finished some absurd argument with Mr. Frere,
I have promised to drive your friend to St.
Theobald's this afternoon ; but you must amuse
him this morning, for I am going over to the
Vicarage and to the schools, and perhaps I may
call upon Margaret ; and my hands are so full
of business that I shall have no time at all
before luncheon.'

What a very Irish speech. Miss Carr !'

*I mean,' she said, reddening a little, 'that
I shall have no time to amuse any idle people.
I shall leave you and Marjory to your own
devices.'

They will be tolerably harmless,' he answered
carelessly. ' What do you say, Marjory  shall
we make hay while the sun shines ? I have
not seen the Mavis Woods yet. Do you think
they will be too wet for you  or will you show
me one of your favourite walks ?'

VOL. III. / 41

We might thy the woods she answered,
with a very doubtful face. * If we find the paths
under water, we can make our way down the hill
towards Thorpe.'

Thorpe ? Oh, it is always Thorpe !' observed
Lilies, rather pettishly. ' Mr. Frere was there
yesterday and the day before. He will think
there is no other place worth seeing.'

Do you know, I have taken a fancy to it,' he
answered, apparently in good faith. ' It is quite
a story-book village. One could weave a whole
romance out of that old house  Headlands  and
that pretty church and vicarage. I really think
one could live out one's life there very happily.
There is an atmosphere of peace about the whole
place. I like the trout stream  or the beck, as you
call it  and the little bridge, and the ducks and
the geese, and the brown-faced babies on the
green. I said so to the squire yesterday,
and '

You are very good at description,' interrupted
Lilies, with a little laugh ; but there was not an
atom of colour in her face. ' Thorpe is a very
ordinary village. I could show you others that
are lair prettier, and ducks and geese and babies
by the dozen. It is not Arcadia  tar from it.

There are spiteful people, and stupid gossip, and
humdrum lives even in Thorpe.' And when she
had finished this malicious speech, she asked her
mother, a little irritably, v/hy they were sitting
so long, when breakfast had been over half an
hour ago ; and this, of course, dispersed the
party.

Do not keep me waiting, Marjory,' observed
Mr. Frere quietly, as he took his paper and seated
himself on the circular seat in the window that
looked over the Mavis Woods, and Marjory had
no excuse for lingering. She only stopped a
moment to put her arm round Lilies as she
passed her.

Sissie dear,' she whispered  for she sometimes
called her by this name since their talk  ' are
you sure that you do not want me ? Mr. Frere
is quite accustomed to walk alone.'

No ; I am too busy to need a companion
to-day,' returned Lilies, rather impatiently. ' One
must be alone sometimes ; and you do not pay
Mr. Frere sufficient attention. You are unkind
10 him, Marjory, and he is so good. I never
knew anyone so good.'

And Marjory was so astonished at this unexpected
home-thrust, that she actually made

412

no answer. She lead no idea that Lias's
speech had been overheard in the distant window-seat.


When she joined Mr. Frere a few minutes
later, she found him pacing up and down the
lawn. He came at once to her side.

You look very well this morning he said
approvingly. * I mean that soft, fawn-coloured
govn just suits you. I like your taste, Marjory.
All your gowns seem to belong to you somehow.
Other people strike me as though they tried to
fit themselves to their clothes.'

This little compliment pleased her. She had
put on her new gown to do him honour. She
told him so frankly, and then she would have
changed the subject.

Poor dear Lilies !' she began ; ' it is easy to
see how restless and miserable she feels this

morning ' but to her surprise he checked herat

once.

 Never mind about that ; things must take
their course there, and it is not our part to pla'
Providence. We lieve not come out to talk
about your friend Lilies ; there is a subject
nearer home that interests me more.'

You mean about Anne,' she answered, drawing

her breath a little hard, but fencing with
him. * Well, I am disappointed that she has
not written this morning ; but I dare say we
shall hear from her to-morrow

No doubt ; but Anne was not in my thoughts
when I spoke. Marjory, has the time come for
you to tell me your trouble T

Ever since he had arrived she had dreaded
some such question as this. He was not to be
hoodwinked, she knew that well ; no assertion
on her part that she was happy, quite happy,
would blind him to the existence of some secret
trouble. Truth, and nothing but the truth, would
satisfy him ; but her lips were sealed now as
then.

Yes, I will tell you '  was not that what
she had said when he had pleaded with her so
earnestly and yet so tenderly for her confidence ?
I will tell you, but not now. When the time
comes for me to speak, you will not need to ask
me. I will come to you of my own accord.'
Had he forgotten her words already, when she
had wept before him and wished herself again a
little child ?

She pressed her lips together, and made him
no answer.

Has the time come yet, Marjory T he repeated
in the same quiet tones.

No,' she returned, standing still in the
narrow path as though she were driven to bay,

it has not come ; I do not know when it will.
I know nothing, except that I will keep my
promise to you ; one day I will tell you all 
but not now ! No, no !' with a sudden shiver;

not one word  not one single word.'

Let us walk on,' he said abruptly. You
have nothing to tell me. Well, so be it ; but
there is much, very much, that I must say.
You will not deceive me long, Marjory,' he
continued.  I shall find out your trouble ; you
cannot keep it hidden from me much longer.
When I set myself to do a thing I generally
achieve my purpose. My will is set on
this.'

'Oh no!' she cried, in sudden terror; 'you
will not be so ungenerous. It is not your
trouble  it is mine. I have a right to keep it
to myself if I wish to do so.'

I cannot permit you that right,' he answered,
and there was a stern inflection in his voice.
Listen to me, Marjory. You are young, verj
young. You have no knowledge, no experience

of the world. You are not able to judge for
yourself in this. My dear, I see so sad a change
in you ; and yet you are not ill ? When you
look at me with one of your old smiles, you are
the same Marjory ; but when you are silent 
when you sit at your work, and you think no
one is noticing you  it is another Marjory I
see.'

You have no right to watch me so,' she
returned angrily. ' No right  no right at all !'

Have I not ?' he answered, with a singular
smile. ' I think I have the right, Marjory, for
there is no one in the world who loves you in
the same way as I do  no one who feels for you
as I feel, my darling.'

They had reached the dell ; and as he spoke
they were standing before the bench with the
carved words ' For Lilies ' before their eyes.

Marjory repeated them absently, and then she
said, without looking up, ' I did not mean to be
unkind, but you press me too much. I know
you care for me ; you have always been too
good to me.'

My dear,' he returned very gently, but she
heard the trembling in his voice, ' will you sit
down here ?' But he did not take his place beside

her. He took off his felt list as though he
were suddenly oppressed, and the arrowy sunbeams
fell aslant on his silvery-grey hair, and
on the brown keen face ; but his eyes were
lowered, and she could not see their expression.


Will you not rest too ?' she asked him a
little timidly.

No !' he said, in a quick strange voice ; * I
cannot rest ; there will be no rest in the world
for me, unless it is in my power to make you
love me as I love you.'

What do you mean ?' she asked in a frightened
tone, for the sad pleading of his voice
smote her with a dull pain. ' Mr. Frere,'
touching him with her little unloved hand,
I have been naughty, I know ; but I have
always loved you  dearly, dearly !'

Not as I love you,' he answered passionately,
and now not even Marjory could mistake the
meaning of his words. * You have grown up
under my roof; you are my sister's adopted
child. I have seen you grow from a lovely
child into a lovelier woman, but I never knew
that it would come to this  that my peace of
mind, my content, would be lost, unless I could

teach you to love me well enough to become
my wife.'

He would have taken her hand as he spoke,
but she shrank from him and covered her face.

Oh no !' she sobbed ; and he could see the
tears trickling through her fingers ; ' you must
be dreaming  it is not so. You cannot mean
that.'

On my life I mean it ! It is the truth, my
darling. You are the one  the only woman in
the world for me. Marjory, can you give meany
hope ?  am I too old for you ? I know the
disparity in our ages. I am a quarter of a
century older than you, but I have seen more
than one happy marriage even when this has
been the case. If I did not think I could make
you happy, dear, I would not ask to be your
husband.'

She was trembling so that she could hardly
answer him, but he understood her to whisper
that it was not that she minded.

Then what is it ?' he asked. And as a sudden
fear crossed him, * Good heavens, Marjory, you
are not going to tell me that you care for someone
else !'

Oh no !' she stammered ; but she would not

look at liirn. 'I have never cared for anyone 
not in that way ; I do not believe I ever shall.'

Then why not care for me T he said, sitting
down beside her, and trying to draw down her
hands. He hardly knew if this was girlish embarrassment
or whether he had really frightened
her. ' Marjory, be frank ; be your own true
self, and tell me how you feel about this.'

He could see that she was trying to obey him.
She checked her tears ; and though she still
trembled exceedingly, she answered him bravely.

Mr. Frere,' she said in a low voice, ' I never
knew  how could I ?  that you cared for me in
that way ; it makes me so unhappy. Oh, I have
never felt quite so unhappy before. I feel as
though I have lost you.'

Do you mean '  and here his lips turned
very white  ' that what I have proposed frightens
you T

Yes, it frightens me,' she returned hurriedly.
When I said I loved you, I did not mean that.
Did you misunderstand me ?'

No, dear ; no,' with a heavy sigh. * I quite
understood your innocent speech ; but I hoped
that, when I showed you what was in my
heart ' but she interrupted him.

Do not hope ; do not  do not !'

He was silent, and for a few moments his face
was averted. Could he let her see his anguish ?
and she meant no harm  no harm at all. It
was only his unlucky fate ; and surely, with his
trrey hairs, he ought to have known better. He
was silent so long that the poor child touched
him again in sudden terror, thinking that he was
angry with her.

Well,' he said, turning round, and there was
a smile now on his pale face, ' so you and I are
to go on as we have been  good friends, and
nothing else.'

If only you are not angry or hurt with me,'
she replied, drooping her head a little.

I am neither,' was his answer. And now he
took her hand, and held it firmly ; but she never
forgot the coldness of the hand that grasped
hers, or the sudden pallor of his face, though the
old kind smile was there.  Do not misunderstand
me, Marjor3\ I shall never be either hurt
or angry with you. I love you far too well for
that.'

But you will thy to care for me a little less,'
she half whispered.

It would be no use for me to try. I could not

leave off loving you ; but you shall never be
frightened again by me.'

You took me so by surprise she faltered, for
she detected a slight bitterness in his voice.

Yes ; I was too abrupt,' he returned gently ;
but it needed a sort of earthquake to show you
what I meant. Well, we will talk no more of
that. I am an old fool, Marjory ; and, of course,
I am served right for my folly. What I want to
say, my dear, is this : that you need not fear
me. I am just the same to you as I always
was  your friend, who would give his life to
serve you ; and the one favour I ask is, that
you will never think of this again. Be the old
trustful Marjory. Nothing will pain me more
than to see you avoid me.'

I will try,' she answered humbly; and then,
in her gratitude and reverence, she raised her
young face to his, as though to kiss him. She
did it as innocently as though she were a child.
But he started back, and the blood suffused his
face ; and then, with an effort, he commanded
himself, and his lips just touched her hair.

God bless you, dear !' he said gravely. * Now,
will you go back to the house while I indulge ina
solitary prowl ?' and as she stood a moment

hesitating, unwilling to leave him to sad thoughts,
he said cheerfully : ' Yes, go, Marjory ; it is
very damp here. I ought not to have brought
you, but it will not hurt a tough old fellow like
me ;' and then she turned slowly away.

Her heart was very heavy within her. Oh,
why could she not love him, when there was no
one to compare with him ? Old ! he was not so
very old. Could any younger lover have pleaded
so well as he ? Her face burnt as she remembered
the strange glow in his eyes, the exquisite tenderness
of his voice, and his patience with her. It
was she who was unworthy of him. Almost she
loved him  but not quite  young as she was ;
Marjory's womanly instincts where not at fault.
She did not love him well enough to give him
the title of husband, and her heart was sore
within her to think of his disappointment and
pain. Did x\nne know ? she wondered ; and then
a little thrill of pardonable triumph came over
her to know that she  even she could be loved
in that way, and by such a man.

Oh, if he could only care a little less, or I a
little more!' she murmured sorrowfully.

But she would have broken her heart if she
could have seen his face as he sat upon the bench

in the May sunshine, with his arms folded across
his chest, and his mouth stern and rigid with
jiain.

There are no fools like old fools !' he muttered.
* I know that well. Could any young fellow
suffer as I suffer ? What madness, what utter
folly, to set my heart on a girl of twenty !  to
think that I could find favour in her eyes, when
she has knov*n me from a child ! And yet such
things have happened before ; and I believe I
could have made her happy. She is peculiar;
she is sensitive and dissatisfied. No one will
ever understand her as I do ; but it will never
do to think of this now. I must live down this
pain somehow,' he went on, with a groan. * She
must never know or guess how I suffer. Perhaps,
if I go away a little while  no, not for a little
while ; that would be no use. It will be impossible
to go back to the old life just yet ; she
would try to be her frank, sweet self with me
I know she will try, poor child !  but the
memory of this talk will be a barrier between
us. She could not bear the constraint, neither
could I. I must put time and space between

us until all this has been forgotten, or until '

He stopped at that, and his face grew grey with

a mighty pain. * Well, God bless him, whoever
he may be ; for he will be Marjory's choice.'

And then he took his stick, and plunged into
the thick, leafy woods that lay round him ; and
he and his sorrow fought out their wrestling-match
together, until the spirit of his manhood
prevailed, and his old strength returned to him.

I SHALL LIVE TO BE AN OLD WOMAN.'

Armory would have given much if
some slight physical discomfort, such
as a headache or a sprained ankle,
would have given her the excuse for remaining
quietly in her room the greater part of the
day.

When would it end T she wondered, with a
sort of angry impatience of her superb health
and vitality.  I suppose, if my heart were
breaking, I should still eat and sleep ; it is only
in novels that the heroine turns night into day,
and weeps like Niobe, and goes about the house
like a picturesque statue of woe.'

But though Marjory was ready to heap scorn
upon herself, she was as unhappy as any girl
could be ; she was far too warm-hearted and

affectionate to be able to inflict jDain without
suffering herself. Mrs. Carr wondered what
ailed her, when she saw her come in. Marjory
moved listlessly ; her face was almost as pale
as Lilies's, and she seemed hardly able to
speak.

What have you done with Mr. Frere, my
dear T she asked quite innocently; but such an
overpowering blush crossed the girl's face that
she was sorry she had asked the question.

He  he has gone for a long walk ; I was
tired, and came back,' stammered Marjory, and
she turned her long neck aside, and touched her
hair with a quick, embarrassed movement, as
though she would shield her burning cheeks from
observation.

Mrs. Carr said no more, but she drew her own
conclusions. There was a troubled look in
Marjory's eyes, a little quiver about the lips,
like a child who discovers that it is suddenly
unhappy, and cannot understand the feeling :
something had evidently gone wrong with her.

They are all out of sorts  Lilies and Hurrell,
and now Marjory, and I am afraid that nice
Mr. Frere too,' thought Mrs. Carr, with a sympathetic
sigh, and she watched him a little

VOL. III. 42

anxiously when he came in just in time to take
his place at the luncheon-table.

But here her feminine shrewdness was at fault.
Mr. Frere certainly looked very tired, but then
he had had a long walk ; he was not pale, he
was even a little flushed, as though he had
hurried and overheated himself. Perhaps he
was a trifle graver than usual, but his talk was
as fluent as ever. The only thing she could
notice was that he gave all his attention to her
and Lilies, and that he left Marjory to herself.
He and Lilies were planning their afternoon's
drive to St. Theobald's ; but Marjory, who had
been summoning up courage to speak all lune
suddenly interposed :

I wish you would take Margaret instead of
me,' she said, addressing Lilies ; * she would
enjoy the drive so much, and I am tired.'

There was something pleading in her voice,
but Lilies was too preoccupied to notice it.

Oh, what nonsense !' she said, in her quick
way. ' You are in an idle mood to-day. You
went out with Mr. Frere, and left him to And
his way home alone ; and now you are pretending
to be tired, when you have only to watch
me drive Kuby, and admire the scenery.'

Well, do you know, I think Miss Ainslie
would be a most pleasant companion,' observed
Mr. Frere, in a leisurely manner. He was not
looking at poor Marjory's hot cheeks ; and if he
was trying to shield her, Lilies certainly did
not find it out. *If Marjory be tired, I propose
that we invite Miss Ainslie in her stead. It
would be a good move, would it not, if I
were to walk down to her house now, and ask
her to be ready, and then you can fetch us
both.'

Oh, very well,' returned Lilies nonchalantly ;
if you are going to indulge this lazy child in
her whimsies, I have nothing to say against
Margaret.' She could have added that it made
no difference to her whether Margaret or Marjory
went. It was the quick movement, the
fresh air and sunshine, for which she craved.
She was restless  ill at ease ; and any change
would be desirable. Care sat beside her wherever
she went just now ; and not even Kuby's antics
and Mr. Frere's arguments would drive that
black companion away.

You will have a dull afternoon, I am afraid,
my dear,' observed Mrs. Carr gently, when
the others had gone. ' Cardigan wants me to

422

see after some repairs at Haggard's farm, aud
I shall be obliged to leave you for some
hours.'

Oh, never mind ; Barry wants me to read
to him,' returned Marjory hastily. And as soon
as Barry was settled comfortably on his couch
in Cosy Nook, she fetched the book and began
at once ; but her reading was so mechanical
and spiritless that Barry raised himself and
peeped over his pillows.

What is the matter with you T he asked at
last. ' Are you tired, Marjory ?'

Yes  no ! Oh, please don't interrupt me,'
she answered rather crossly ; but her voice was
breaking a little, and she would have gone on,
only Barry's thin hand was placed on the
page.

How absurd !' he said, in quite an injured
voice. * Do you think I am so selfish that I
shall let you amuse me, when you are ready to
cry with fatigue ? Don't contradict mo, Marjory
 there are tears in your eyes ; you are
just dead-beat. Give me the book, and I will
read myself to sleep ; and just put yourself in
that big easy-chair, and I will see that no one
disturbs you.'

Oh, Barry, how good you are to me ! I am
tired  oh, I am tired to death !' and here a
sob trembled in Marjory's throat.

I will be as good to you as I know how, for
you take no end of trouble for me,' returned the
boy, with a little laugh. He had heard the sob,
but he could not think what had happened to
this favourite. ' Shut your eyes, Marjory, and if
anyone comes I will say you are asleep ; we
shall both be the better for a nap.'

Marjory needed no second bidding. The
chair he had selected was at the head of the
couch ; he could not see her if he tried. Marjory's
tears could flow now in peace, and no one
would be the wiser. Oh, the relief and luxury
of those quiet hours ! Marjory's head went down
upon her hands, and she gave herself up to that
bitter-sweet retrospect. How was she to face
her old life again ? Could Darrell's End be
her home and his too, now this wonderful thing
had happened ? What would Anne say ? Would
she be angry with her ? ' Anne knows none of
my troubles ; we are in two separate worlds,
she and I, just now,' thought Marjory, with
that intense craving for sympathy that comes to
some natures.

Mrs. Carr thought they were both asleep,
they were so still and motionless.

Poor Barry, who had passed a dull afternoon
trying to fix his attention on his book, and not
to hear certain suspiciously caught breaths behind
him, hailed his mother's return with delight;
her face had never been more welcome to the
poor lad than now.

Has not Fleming brought the tea ? It is
past five ; and I hoped I should have found
Hurrell here. Oh, what will Lilies say when
she comes in ? I know she expects him,
and '

Hush, mother ! Marjory is there  behind
the screen. I think she is asleep.'

No, I am not asleep. Shall I ring for
Fleming, Mrs. Carr T

Marjory sat up and tossed the hair from her
face ; and then she came forward in her usual
way to free Mrs. Carr from her wraps.

 Thank you, my dear. What have you both
been doing ? Barry looks hot and restless, and
you, you have a headache, Marjory ;' but the
girl shrank from that clear motherly look, and
left the room a little hastily.

She was tired,' interposed Barry, ' and so I

left her in peace. I was not going to let her
bother herself about me, mother. Does not
Marjory remind you sometimes of that girl in
aurora Leigh " ?

" Too much hair, perhaps 

I'll name a fault here for so small a head."
 *  * *

I often quote those two lines to myself.'

You are quite poetical,' laughed his mother ;
but she understood what he meant at once.
Marjory's face often looked over-weighted with
its hair, as it did this afternoon. ' It is very
uncommon, this look of Marjory's ; but you are
wrong, Barry : it is not '' the small fair face
between the darks of hair "  Marjory is not
fair at all.'

No ; but the description holds good all the
same, mother. Don't you remember how the
passage goes on ? 

" The low brow  the frank space between the eyes,
Which always had the brown pathetic look
Of a dumb creature who had been beaten once,
And never since was easy with the world."

Marjory never looks quite happy to me. She is
so awfully nice and kind. I wish you would do
something for her.'

I would do anything,' returned Mrs. Carr, ina
little surprise ; but she knew nothing about the
smothered sobs that had roused Barry's compassion.
Of course, the girl was not happy 
one could see that ; but then her own child was
miserable.

Oh, Barry, what are we to do if Hurrell
does not come soon ?' she said, with pardonable
egotism.

Do ? Why, nothing at all ! ' replied her son
indignantly, for he was on Hurrell's side, and
could not be induced to pity his sister. ' If Lil
chooses to treat a fellow shabbily she must bear
the brunt of her wrong-doing. I am delighted
that Hurrell shows so much spirit ;' for in the
Mavisbank household there were no secrets, and
Barry had been made to understand that things
were very wrong indeed.

Poor darling ! she will be so disappointed,"
returned Mrs. Carr, with a sigh. And then
Marjory came back, and the talk became more
general. Marjory made the tea, and waited
upon them both very nicely ; and she took
Barry's teasing in good part when he became
mischievous all at once, out of revenge for his
silent afternoon.

She only shrank into herself when the wheels
of the phaeton were heard outside.

Are we not late ?' observed Lilies, as she
stood in the doorway. For one half-minute
her eyes scanned the group before her, and then
her voice became recklessly gay. ' Oh, Marjory,
what you have lost by your laziness ! We have
had such an afternoon ! Margaret and Mr.
Frere got on famously together ; they were
finding out Greek roots or derivations all the
way. It was quite amusing to hear them. It
gave me an inkling of what the Tower of Babel
must be, when unknown tongues were heard
for the first time ; it frightened Ruby, for she
went at such a pace. No, thank you, mother
dear ; we have had tea at the Vicarage. Mrs.
Barton was as kind as possible, and got out her
best china in Mr. Frere's honour. They made
so much of the gentleman from Moorbridge that
his head is quite turned, and he has been laying
down the law all the way home.'

'It is a very fine old church, Marjory,'
observed Mr. Frere, standing beside her, as he
stooped over the fire to warm his hands. ' The
highly decorated roof and massive pillars are
grand, and so are the arches. Miss Ainslie

told me the nave was Early English. She
seems well up in ecclesiastical architecture.
She is an extremely well-informed person.*

Oh, it was dreadful to hear them !' rattled
on Lilies, with a forced laugh. ' They were
about half an hour in the mortuary chapel,
talking about the different styles of architecture
the Perpendicular and Wavy, or Decorated
periods  and then they went on to archaeology,
or what they termed the science of antiquities.
Think of poor little me, all the time shivering
at the hard names with which they pelted each
other!'

Miss Carr, you were an admirable listener.
I am sure we never heard your voice all the
time we were in the church.'

Of course not,' she answered wickedly.
Do you think I would have interrupted your
long treatise on the Sedilia. Marjory, I have
come to the conclusion that fate has led Mr.
Frere to these parts. Nothing but a female
Crichton would ever satisfy him. He and
Margaret are kindred souls. They both dislike
short cuts to knowledge. They are each a
walking dictionary, and prefer picking out the
longest words for daily use. They are both an

abstract of the reasoning power in the highest
state of activity

Oh, LiHas, how can you talk such nonsense !'
remonstrated Mrs. Carr, a Httle gravely.

Mr. Frere was still warming his hands, and
did not reply; but the hot colour rushed over
Marjory's face. She was surprised herself to
find how much Lilies's thoughtless speech hurt
her. Mr. Frere and Margaret Ainslie kindred
souls!  that any woman should claim him!

Marjory,' he said, in a very low voice, so
that no one but herself could hear him, * I am
greatly pleased with this friend of yours. She
is a very uncommon person. I have been
drawing her out, and I find she has the simplicity
of a child, in spite of her great knowledge.
If you stay here much longer you will
find her a great comfort to you. I am glad,
for your sake, that she has taken to you so
much.'

The old kind voice and manner  the same
thought for her that had guarded her whole life.
Could she fail to understand his meaning  that
Margaret Ainslie was only a source of interest
to him for her sake ? Lilies's careless words
could not hurt her now.

Thank you,' she answered, dropping her
eyes as she spoke. ' I am glad you like her

'What is dear to you must be dear to me,'
was his low reply ; and he laid his hand
lightly, very lightly, on hers for a moment.
No one saw the action; but Marjory's heartfelt
full, almost to bursting, as she quietly
followed Lilies from the room. This was how
she was forgiven ; this was how he comforted
her for the pain inflicted on them both. There
was no bitterness in his thoughts because sh(;
had brought trouble and confusion into his
tranquil life. His great love could never wrong
her for one single instant.

It was Lilies whose gaiety kept them all
alive that evening, for Mr. Frere was very
quiet ; and Marjory's sudden veil of shyness
and gravity was not to be removed. It was
Lilies who sang song after song, until her
mother refused to hear another note. It was
she who set out the chess-table for Mr. Frere
and Barry, and hovered about them with light
jesting words. It was she who was not tired
when they gathered round the fire before separating
; tired  she had never felt fresher. And
were they all old women, pray, that they should

be sent to bed at ten o'clock, when the moon
was shining behind the woods, and anyone else
would have proposed a stroll ?

Mrs. Carr, who noticed Marjory's fagged
looks, had to be very firm indeed before Lilies
would consent to break up the party.

You have been dreadfully stupid to-day,
Marjory,' she began teasingly, when they stood
in the passage a moment. ' You do not speak
a word to that nice Mr. Frere ; and I am quite
in love with him myself, and so is Margaret.
You are so grave and proper. You have not
laughed once this evening ; and it is I who
must sing, and talk nonsense, and keep you all
up to the mark. Some one must be merry, you
know, and that is always my role ; and  oh,
Marjory !'

What is it, dear ? Sissie  Lilies  my poor
dear  what is it ?' and Marjory, in great alarm,
threw her arm round the girl, and drew her into
the room. Lilies had stopped speaking, and
her face was contracted as though with pain ;
there was a dark look about her mouth, and her
face was deadly pale.

'Don't call anyone  it is nothing,' she gasped ;
but she suffered Marjory to lift her on to the

couch, and for a few moments she seemed absolutely
past speech. Then a little colour came
back into her face, but her hands were cold as
ice.

I have had it before  this pain,' she
whispered after a while ;  once at Whitecliffe,
the night I was anxious about Barry, and once
the evening Hurrell dined here. What can it be ?
I wonder. I am quite strong ; I am never ill 
never.'

Shall I give you a little sal volatile T asked
Marjory, who was kneeling beside her, rubbing
her hands. ' There are drops that Mrs. Chard
always takes when she has her attacks. I do
not know if they would do you good, but salvolatile
is always safe. You should speak to
Dr. Ainslie, Lilies.'

So I will. I will speak to him, Marjory, if
you will promise not to tell my mother. She
was so frightened that night, she never closed
her eyes until morning; and we were both awake,
though we never spoke. Promise me, Marjory.'

I will not tell her unless you have another
attack,' she returned reluctantly, for she saw it
was necessary to soothe Lilies's agitation. * Now
you must drink this, and I will help you to bed ;

for you are cold  so dreadfully cold  your teeth
are chattering.' And as Lilies offered no remonstrance
to this, she soon assisted her to undress.

There ! I am comfortable now observed
Lilies gratefully, as Marjory placed the pillows
under her head. ' You are a good nurse,
Marjory ; you have a nice firm touch, like
mother's. You remind me so of her sometimes ;
you have beautiful hands like hers, and mine are
so ugly.' And Lilies stretched them out on the
coverlet, and tried to pout ; but Marjory was
shocked to see how wan and pinched her face
looked.

Sissie darling,' she said, stroking her fair
hair, ' I do think you ought to tell Mrs. Carr
how you felt to-night ; you should not hide
anything from her.'

Lilies shook her head a little impatiently.

It is nothing  nothing. What a fuss you
make about a trifle! Most likely it is indigestion.
I have known people have pains and palpitations
just from that cause. I will ask Dr. Ainslie to
prescribe for me tomorrow.'

But why not tell Mrs. Carr to-night T persisted
her friend.

Oh, what an obstinate creature you are!'

returned Lilies fretfully. * You are as bad as
that stupid Miriam, who burst out crying when
I told her. The foolish woman made herself
quite ill over it ; but I remember her drugs were
very comforting.'

You have over-exerted yourself replied
Marjory very seriously. ' You should not sing
and talk quite so much when you do not feel
merry. Oh, it is no use pretending,' as Lilies
seemed eager to disclaim this ; * when one is
anxious or worried, it is best to be quiet and
not talk much. Now I will say good-night to
you, dear, for I hear Mrs. Carr's step ;' and
Marjory withdrew to her room with a fresh
burthen on her spirits. Were they all wrong
about Lilies except Mr. Frere, who thought her
so delicate ? Never before had Marjory seen
such a resemblance between Lilies and Mrs.
Chard as she had to-night. Mrs. Chard had
heart disease, she knew ; but she had some
internal complaint as well. Could Lilies have
inherited her mother's delicacy, as she, Marjory,
had inherited her magnificent constitution and
robust health from Mrs. Carr ? This was
another source of trouble, and kept her in a
waking nightmare for hours. She over-slept

herself in consequence, and evoke late, to find
something wet and sweet touching her cheek.
It was a little bunch of wood violets and
primroses, with the dew still on them. And
there was Lilies, rather paler than usual, perhaps,
smiling at her sleepy-eyed perplexity.

You lazy girl!' she said, laughing; * do you
know breakfast is over, and Emma is preparing
a tray of good things for you ? Mother said she
was sure you were not well, and she would not
allow you to be roused. And Mr. Frere picked
these flowers for you, to bid you good-morning,
as he said.'

Marjory's eyes filled at the silent message ;
but she said hurriedly : ' It is very kind of him ;
but you  you are better, Lilies ?'

Oh yes,' returned the girl carelessly ; * but I
suppose you will grumble and make a fuss if I
do not keep my promise and speak to Dr.
Ainslie. He will only laugh at me ; he always
does. Marjory, I have made up my mind that I
shall live to be an old  a very old woman, but I
am afraid I shall be a very ugly one. You see
my nose is rather long, and when my cheeks fall
in, it will have rather a nut-cracker effect. Now
you will make a lovely old woman.'

VOL. III. 43

Oh, Lilies !'

But somehow Marjory did not lau<h at the
girl's drollery ; on the contrary, she looked
rather wistfully at the sweet face and the soft,
smiling mouth. Lilies looked far from welland
there were dark lines under her eyes, but
no one else had noticed it.

Oh, do you know,' observed Lilies suddenly,
that that tiresome Mr. Frere has had letters
this morning that oblige him to go home ? Some
friend or other  a Colonel Wharton, I think he
said  has just arrived from India on sick-leave,
and is passing through London ; and nothing
will do but Mr. Frere must take the mail-train
to-night.'

To-night!' It was Marjory's turn to look
pale now,

Yes, to-night. Of course it is all nonsense,
as I tell him ; we none of us believe his
plausible little story'. We are too stupid for him ;
that is the reason. He finds himself dull, and
then you snubbed him or quarrelled with him
yesterday  which was it, Marjory ? But the
result is, he is going off in a huff, though he does
look so remarkably pleasant over it all, and does
nothing but make us civil little speeches.'

Oh, Lilies, how you chatter !' exclaimed
Marjory, in sudden irritation. ' Do leave me 
I want to get up ; it is so dreadfully late.'
But she was a little ashamed of this outburst
when Lilies laughed meaningly in her face.
You will have plenty of time for a long talk,'
she said, in a teasing voice ; ' and he has sent
you a pretty little message.'

And she went off humming a tune, though the
careless notes died away into silence as soon as
she was out of hearing.

432

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois;

V(,',v .v3

CHAPTER IV.

CROSS LIGHTS AND CROSS PURPOSES.

i[!AEJORY dressed herself in haste,
scarcely giving herself time to do
justice to the tempting breakfast that
Emma had prepared. But she need not have
hurried herself  Cosy Nook was empty when she
reached it; and when Mrs. Carr made her appearance,
her first words were hardly consolatory.

Lilies has gone to see Margaret, and Mr.
Frere has walked over to Redlands ; it is just
possible that he may remain there to luncheon.
I asked him to bring Hurrell back with him,
and he promised to do his best. Anything is
better than going on in this way. Lilies is
making herself ill, with all her pretended good
spirits ; it makes me angry with Hurrell when I
think of it.'

Oh no ; it is not Mr. Wentworth's fault 
you cannot be so unreasonable as that answered
Marjory, with a faint smile.

All women are unreasonable, according to
your friend's theory. When I see Lilies miserable,
I am ready to fight the whole world : that
is how a mother feels. Poor Hurrell ! no, he
is not to blame. His only fault is that he
loves her far too well. I think '  with a half-sigh
 ' that my child was made for a world
*' where there is neither marrying nor giving in
marriage," she is so pure and innocent. There
is more of the child than the woman in her
nature. Hurrell does not understand this : no
man can. He is very good, but Lilies is too vague
too visionary for him. *ewe are so happy as
we are," she says, poor darling ! But Hurrell
wants his wife  he wants a young mistress in
his home : nothing else will content him.'

You cannot deny that his wishes are reasonable,'
returned Marjory gravely.

Oh no 1 and he is welcome to my child ; but
I cannot with my own hands push her out of
the nest until her wings are ready for flight.
She is trembling on the edge; she cannot makeup
her mind  that is what it is. Perhaps these

three days' absence may do much for Hurrell ;
but he must come  Mr. Frere must bring him

Marjory was silent. She doubted if her
friend woukl approve of this course. Lilies had
been punished, but her punishment had been
brief; she had only been served with the bread
of tears and the water of affliction for three
days, though she was making herself ill already
If her lover returned so quickly, would she
not triumph too readily, and still persist in her
own way ?

Mr. Frere shakes his head, but he promised
to do his best to persuade him,' went on
Mrs. Carr.  Oh, I am so sorry, Marjory, that
we are losing your friend this evening. He says
he must go. He has telegraphed to his club
and written to his sister, so he has quite made
up his mind. Barry is inconsolable, and indeed
we shall all miss him ; he is onlj a new acquaintance,
and yet Lilies and I feel as though he
were an old friend.'

 I am sorry too,* returned Marjory, in a subdued
voice ; and then Mrs. Carr was called
away to speak to a tenant, and she was left to
her own sad thoughts. She had driven him
away  well she knew that  and yet how grieved

she was to lose him. A sudden yearning came
over her to keep him by her  to ask him not to
go, for she could not bear to be left with
her unhappy thoughts. He must forgive her,
and stay ; and yet, what if it were better for
him to go ? She had no experience ; she did
not know how a man feels in such cases. Might
it not be selfish in her to desire this ? Perhaps
Anne would do him good and comfort him ; he
would be more at peace at Muriel's End without
her.

Marjory was entangling herself in a maze of
sorrowful perplexity ; the poor girl had never
trodden these paths before, and she had nothing
to guard her but her own instinctive sense of right
it was a safer guard than she knew. This
inward monitor had prompted her refusal yesterday
 she did not love Mr. Frere well enough to
marry him ; and now it bade her let him go,
for his own peace of mind.

She had just reached this point, and was
feeling very dull and magnanimous, when Lilies
returned to coax her to take a stroll.

Of course it was nonsense,' she remarked
lightly ; ' Dr. Ainslie sounded me, and just said
nothing at all.'

Nothing at all ?'

 Well, next to nothing. He told me not to
tire myself, and that I was not to worry about
anything, but keep myself cheerful ; and he said
I had better not go uphill, or run upstairs, if it
hurt me. I had sworn him to secrecy, so he
could not talk to mother about me ; but he
made me promise one thing  if I ever felt the
same pain again, that I was to send for him, and
then, of course, mother and he would put their
heads together.'

Lilies, I do not like this.'

Oh, what a tiresome thing you are, Marjory
! I am sorry now that I said you would
make a lovely old woman  you do not deserve
such a compliment. Dr. Ainslie was tiresome
too : he poked me about, and asked such a lot
of questions. And then he pretended I was
nervous and excitable  such nonsense ! and he
would not promise not to tell mother, until I
made him understand that if my finger aches,
she worries herself to death about it ; that if I
were dying, I would not have her informed that
I was in danger until the last minute  that is
what I told him. Why, she would break her
heart beforehand, and then there would be no

one to nurse me but that fidgety dear old Mrs.
Wentworth.' And here the tears came into the
lovely hazel eyes. ' I should wish mother to do
everything for me.'

And yet you are to live to be a very old
woman !'

Yes, of course ; I told Dr. Ainslie so, and
he patted me on the cheek, just as though I
were a child, and said if I were good, and took
care of myself, he hoped I should live to be a
hundred. Just fancy, Marjory ! old Nannie
Clarke is only eighty-six, and she has no teeth,
and nut-cracker jaws, and her face looks as
brown and wrinkled as an old piece of parchment.
I hope I shall not look like Nannie

Oh dear, no ! you will be a lovely old
woman, too returned Marjory cheerfully ; and
she would have changed the subject, for she
could not feel quite satisfied about Dr. x\inslie's
opinion. He had not laughed at her, that was
evident ; but Lilies's thoughts would run on in
the same groove.

She asked Marjory her opinion about old age.
Was it really such a dreary time ? Old people
suffered less than young people  she was sure
of that  but then they enjoyed less ; life was

diluted to them ; material warmth was more to
them than mental comfort.

'When the daughters of music shall be
brought low." Well, do you know, Marjory
she went on, ' when I read that description, I
seem to get into a dim world : everything is
faint and low  existence seems weak and passionless.'


 I don't think I want to be very old!' sighed
Marjory, who felt just now that her burthens
were too heavy to carry with comfort. * I wish
I were a Buddhist. I begin to believe in a
negative happiness.'

But this was too philosophical for Lilies.

Oh, that is all nonsense!' she returned with
impatience. ' We are Christians, and I am
determined to be a very good, pious old woman.
Depend upon it, Marjory, old people feel like
children ; only they are children with a past,
and that may make them unhappy sometimes.
Little things please them  little jokes, a
kind word ; even the sunshine and the flowers
make them happy. People speak of it as second
childhood : well, it is just that they are God's
poor, tired old children, who are having a little
rest before tlie} go home. Oh, we ought to be

SO good to the old !  I am sure of that. They
are the link between us and the angels ; they
give a hand to each, as it were  to us and to
them ; but to some of the poor creatures it is a
weary climb home

Marjory wondered atLilias's little monologue,
but it somehow touched her. Lilies often
speculated over things, and her thoughts were
always so fresh and innocent, so untouched by
worldliness. Mrs. Carr's words recurred to
Marjory  she had spoken them without perceiving
their real drift : ' My child was made for a
world ' where there is neither marrying nor
giving in marriage." ' What if Lilies were
never to attain to that old age on which she
dwelt so feelingly ?

Lilies's serious talk lasted until they reached
home, and then her mood changed.

Mother,' she said, in her pretty, caressing
way, rubbing her cheek against Mrs. Carr's,
after the manner of an affectionate kitten,

Marjory agrees with me that you grow more
beautiful every day.'

My dear, what nonsense !'  with a faint,
middle-aged blush, that was becoming enough

in its way. * I am quite sure Marjory was too
sensible to say anything so ridiculous.'

Oh, it is only Lil's blarney observed Barry
coolly ; ' it means nothing at all, except that
you are to do something very disagreeable for
her in the course of the next twenty-four
hours

Lilies dropped him a little fluttering curtsey.

Poor boy!' she said calmly; you do not like
pretty speeches unless they are addressed to you.'

And then she treated him to an harangue that
made them laugh.

She kept them all merry at luncheon, and
sent Fleming away, and would wait on them
herself; and she hummed a little tune perpetually,
as she moved lightly about the room.

Mrs. Carr's eyes followed her continually.
Does she not look pretty ? Is she not the
sweetest  the dearest?' her eyes seemed to
say to Marjory. And indeed the girl's golden
hair seemed to catch the sunbeams as they stole
in the room ; and there was a knot of primroses
and violets in her grey dress, very like the one
Mr. Frere had gathered for Marjory.

Only I picked these myself,' observed Lilies,
with a meaning laugh, as she noticed a furtive

glance at them from Marjory. And then, without
any warning, she came up and kissed her
in a way that made Marjory colour and shrink
into herself.

It was a lovely afternoon. The fire still
blazed in Cosy Nook, but the door stood wide
open, and the fresh spring breezes swept through
the old hall. The girls brought out their ,
and seated themselves in the
cushioned recess that looked over the Mavis
Woods. By tacit consent, neither of them
spoke of going out. Barry's invalid chair was
brought round presently, but Mrs. Carr did not
offer to accompany him as usual. A slight stir
of expectancy seemed in the air. Mrs. Carr
brought her work to the window, and joined
the girls ; but Lilies's fun had died a natural
death, and there was very little speech between
them.

Will he come ? Will Mr. Frere bring him T
Those where the words on everyone's lips, but
no one spoke them. Even when, an hour
later, there were quick, crisp footsteps on the
gravel walk, only Mrs. Carr raised her head in
expectation ; Marjory's eyes were bent on the
lily she was working, and Lilies's face was

averted, and one little shell-like ear was as xink
as possible.

You are welcome, gentlemen,' observed Mrs.
Carr, with elaborate briskness ;  we have been
looking for you all the afternoon. Mr. Frere,
you ought not to have played truant on your
last day  it was shabby of you. How do you
do, Hurrell ? and what do you mean by performing
the part of absentee all this time ?'

I was busy,' returned the young man curtly,
and there was a slight sullenness in his voice.
I should not have come this afternoon, only Mr.
Frere told me you wanted to speak to me about
business,' he said. And then he shook hands
with them all, touching Lilies's hand very quickly
and coldly without looking at her, and sat down
by Mrs. Carr.

Mrs. Carr's face fell. Could this be Hurrell
who spoke so ungraciously ? She looked up at
him with kind imploring eyes, but the young
squire did not seem to notice her anxious
glances.

It was about business you wanted me,'
he said moodily. He looked pale, harassed,
irritable. Mrs. Carr understood with much
siukinf of heart that Mr. Frere's mission had

been attended with difficulty. Hurrell had
come on no embassage of peace.

Barry has come back, and is in his room
observed Lias suddenly, and her needle flew
through the cloth. ' Mother, do you not think
you and Hurrell had better retire there to talk
over your business ? Business is such a bore,
except to the parties interested in it,' she continued,
with a little laugh that seemed to jar somehow,
it was so shrill. ' When tea is ready wee can
call you ; but business is such a bore,' finished
the girl, with a falter in her voice, for Hurrell
was looking at her with anger in his eyes, and
there was a dull glow on his face. What was
it to him that the sun shone so that Lilies's fair
hair had golden gleams in it ; that there were
flowers in her gown that he had not picked for
her ? What was it to him that the loveliest
colour had come to her face at the sight of him ?
He was not to be played with any more.

Yes, let us go into Barry's room,' he said,
drawing himself up to his full height, and squaring
his shoulders as though they would throw
ofi" an invisible burthen. ' I have bored people
sufficiently, I know that  I will never willingly
do it again.'

Oh, my dear boy, low can you say so !'
exclaimed the anxious woman.  LiHas never
meant to be rude  it is only her fun

Yes, it is only my fun,' returned Lilies, with
an odd gleam in her eyes. * It is in the nature
of business to be dry ; that is no one's fault.
Go with him, mother. Hurrell is always so
dreadfully impatient. We will give you notice
when tea is reads Mr. Frere, come here and
tell us what you have been doing. Marjory is
as hurt as possible with you, leaving us all on
this last day. She would have nothing to say
to your flowers, you see. I suppose she has
left them to wither on her table upstairs.'

Oh Lilies !' remonstrated Marjory ; and
there was a sharp pain in her voice. * Please
do not make Mr. Frere think I am so ungrateful.'


No one would make me believe that,' he
said, sitting down beside her, and taking the
work out of her hand. ' My flowers are all
right, Marjory  I know that ;' but Marjory, who
knew that she meant to press them and keep
them as her choicest treasure, looked so guilty
and conscious that he changed the subject.

Is that how you are going to listen to my

explanation, Miss Carr T he asked, addressing
the girl as she was about to leave the room.

I shall be back directly. Marjory can tell
me all about it afterwards she said, a little incoherently
; and in pity for her sudden restlessness
he let her go.

 It seems we are to be left to ourselves,
Marjory he continued cheerfully. ' What a
grand old hall this is ! It is the very heart and
living-place of the house. You cannot think
what a pretty picture you all made as we stood
in the doorway. Mrs. Carr's velvet gown, and
this ruby stuff,'  touching the folds of her dress
' and your friend Lilies's hair that looked like a
mesh of sunbeams  it will be a pretty picture to
carry with me to-night.'

Oh! must you go?' she said rather piteously
at this.

Yes, indeed ; would you have me miss
Wharton  a fellow I have not seen since our
old college-days? By-the-bye, Marjory, you must
tell me what messages I am to deliver to Anne :
most likely I shall see her the day after tomorrow.'


Tell her that I never wanted her so much in
my life  but no, that is nonsense ; that will only

VOL. III. 41

trouble her. Ob, I have no message  no message
at all

My poor little child !' be said very softly,
just under his breath ; and then he said aloud :
Perhaps it would not do to let her know that.
What am I to say to her about your coming
home ? You will stop longer with these kind
people who love you so, will you not  you are
not in a hurry to come home ?'

'No,' returned Marjory, and her lip trembled;
I am not coming home just yet.' But as she
said the words the strongest longing came over
her to go back with him, an intense craving for
Anne's face, and the quiet atmosphere of Muriel's
End. Her emotion was not lost on him, and his
face brightened a little.

You may come home if you will, Marjor3\'

Yes, I know,' she responded gratefully; * but
I will not come just yet.'

Will you promise mo one thing  not to be
unhappy if you stay here ?'

I do not think I shall be happy anywhere
just now,' she returned evasively.

Oh, you are young, my dear,' he said kindly,
things will grow brighter for you by-and-by if
you will only have patience. Marjory, you must

remember your promise to me. I shall hold you
to that.'

What promise ?' in a half frightened tone.

To tell me your trouble some day  to come
to me of your own accord and tell it. I can
trust you  you will never break your word.'

She shook her head in mute disclaimer of
this ; so much, at least, she owed to this
dear friend. For one moment, as she sat
silently beside him in the sweet evening light,
a longing came to her to put down her
head on his arm, and ask him to take care of
her. ' Never mind my want of love  I will
make it up in reverence. I know you will be
good to me  it will all come right.' Was that
what she would say to him ? but would he not
put her away from him very gently, and refuse
to listen ? Reverence  a childish affection  would
that ever satisfy his great heart ?

'I think this will be our real good-bye,' he
said presently; and perhaps he marvelled a little
at her silence. * There will be the others by-and-by,
and packing and dinner, and I shall
go straight from the table. Wentworth has
promised to stay and see me off, but he is very
glum and impracticable. Marjory, jour friend

442

must mind what she is about ; he has broken
from his traces, and her little hand will not
control him any longer. He seems almost too
bitter to speak to her.'

Lilies provoked him. You heard what she
said ; she ought not to have sent him away
like that. Oh, there is Fleming with tea, and
Lilies following. Mr. Frere, you must go and
coax them to leave business and come back to
Cosy Nook.'

I will do what I can. Supposing you come
too, Marjory ?'  holding out his hand ; but
Marjory held back, and he went alone.

Evidently his arguments were successful, or
Barry was bored too ; for they all made their
appearance presently, and Mrs. Carr sat down
with a very tired face, while Mr. Wentworth
received his cup of tea from Lilies with the
gravity of a judge, and stood beside her as he
drank it  making dry, commonplace observations
about the weather, his mother's health, and Mr.
Frere's journey, which Lilies answered with
downcast eyes and a flush on her cheeks.

Mrs. Carr watched them with undisguised
anxiety.

Oh, these men !' she groaned once, as Marjory

passed her. * Could any attitude be more
rigid and uncompromising than Hurrell's ?' she
thought.

He looked taller  older ; she had never
noticed this dignity in him before. His face
looked stern and hard, too ; his frank blue eyes
were clouded and full of suppressed pain. Now
and then he pulled his moustache nervously, but
that was his only sign of weakness. If Mrs.
Carr felt frightened as she watched him, what
must have been Lilies's feelings as he stood there
looking gloomily in the fire, uttering a dry remark
every now and then ? Why, it was as though the
seas had rolled between them, dividing her from
the real Hurrell !

Once she glanced at him in alarm, but he
took no notice of her look.

Have you told Lilies about the new foal,
Hurrell ?' asked Mrs. Carr desperately ; she
must say something to rouse him out of his
apathy.

No ; I did not think it would interest her,'
he returned, moving away from her side as
though some thought stung him.  One grows
afraid of boring people.'

Oh, Hurrell !' exclaimed the poor girl, turning

very pale ; and the hands that were busy
among the tea-cujus trembled.

How am I to know what interests you ?' he
returned, almost savagely. But he spoke in a
very low voice, and suddenly checked himself.
I am not myself  I will go!'

No,' she whispered, calling him back by the
very pain in her voice; 'it was I who was rude,
but I did not mean it, Hurrell. Please do not
go  not like this, I mean. Go and talk to Marjory
; she looks dull.'

And Hurrell was so far ashamed of himself
that he obeyed her ; but when he looked up
again, Lilies had left the room. It was sometime
before she returned. Mr. Frere had gone
to look after his packing, and Hurrell and Barry
were playing chess. Lilies took no notice of
them ; she crossed the hall quickly, and sat
down by Mrs. Carr, and talked to her in a voice
so low that her words failed to reach them. As
for Marjory, she moved about restlessly, taking
up one book after another, and turning over
pages aimlessly, without fixing her attention on
a word. Everything was horrid, she thought ;
the only person who could help them all was

going away. How dull it was all at once 
how cheerless and solitary !

It was better during dinner. Mr. Frere, as
usual, threw himself gallantly into the breach ;
and Hurrell, who was probably ashamed of his
sulkiness, tried to promote the conversation. The
gentlemen talked chiefly to each other, or to
Mrs. Carr ; neither of them addressed Lilies, who
was sitting beside Mr. Frere, and scarcely raised
her eyes. Mr. Frere judged that it was kinder
to leave her to herself; and Marjory, who was
sad and preoccupied, was equally silent.

Just at the last moment, when the carriage
was coming round, Hurrell came up to Mrs.
Carr, who was standing holding Lilies's hand.

 I may as well say good-bye now,' he said,
vith an attempt at a smile. ' Mr. Frere will
be ready in a moment.'

But you are coming back,' she said, in a
little surprise. ' I heard you tell Barry that you
were coming back from the station to bring him
those papers.*

Oh, true !' he returned, somewhat embarrassed
; ' but I only meant to leave them at the
door with Fleming  my mother will be expecting

me.'

Oh, it does not matter,' she replied, with
some dignity.

But LiHas, who had involuntarily squeezed
her mother's hand, said rather quickly and
indifferently :

Oh, it does not matter to-night ; perhaps
you will be coming tomorrow, or the next
day?'

Well, no,' he said, evading her look and
speaking very nervously ; * I shall be busy tomorrow.
There are hundreds of things I must
do, for I think of going up to London in a day
or two.'

To London ?'  and here her voice shook a
little. ' How very strange  you go so seldom
to London ! But it is the gay time  oh, of
course, I know it is the gay time : it is you
who never care about such things !'

 One must do as other men, sometimes. I
have been too much of an anchorite. I shall
not be away long  not many weeks ; but if I
go the day after tomorrow, I may not have
time to look in at Mavisbank. Perhaps you
will see my mother sometimes, if it will not
trouble you ; I should not like her to be dull.'

Oh yes,' returned Lilies, in a pained voice;

your mother shall not be dull, if we can help
it. I hope you will enjoy your visit  and 
and your gaiety.'

And now it was she who gave him her hand
without looking at him  perhaps because her
eyes were full of tears ; but in the dim light he
could not see that.

Marjory!' whispered Mrs. Carr, coming to
the hall-door, which stood open on that spring
night ; and the girl, who was looking out
absently at the carriage-lights flickering in the
darkness, turned round with a little start. 'Did
you hear what Hurrell said about his going
away to London ?'

Oh yes,' returned Marjory, with an impatient
sigh, ' I heard it all. How stupid he is !
How tiresome men are ! '

My dear, I have learned a lesson to-night :
it is the easy-tempered, kind-hearted man who
can be obstinate and a tyrant. But, Marjory,
what I have to say is this : Mrs. Moore has
sent for me ; I have promised to go down to
the Yicarage for an hour or two. Lilies will be
alone and unhappy  yes, I know she will be
unhappy, though she has said good-bye to him so
coldly. Stop with her, Marjory ; do not leave

her ; bear with her if she gets irritable and
fretful  she does not mean it.'

Of course I will stop with her,' returned
Marjory hurriedly ; for just then Mr. Frere was
coming towards them with his travelling-plaid
over his arm, and she slipped a little farther
into the darkness.

*Well, Mrs. Carr,' he said cheerfully, I have
said good-bye to your daughter ; and now I
must tell you that I have tested northern
hospitality for myself, and I find it has not been
over-praised. One day, I hope, you will allow
my sister to return it. It will be a real pleasure
to her to welcome you to Darrell's End.'

Perhaps, some day,' she returned, with a
smile ; and then, as she saw him peering
curiously into the dusky corners of the hall, she
said, ' There is Marjory, standing outside in her
thin white dress, and no covering on her head.
I hope you will scold the foolish child, and send
her in directly.'

I am here,' said Marjory, gliding out from
the dark porch, for she had heard this. ' Mr.
Frere, I am so sorry you must go ; but you will
give my love to Anne ?*

Yes, dear. But, now, you must not stand

here another moment. Good-bye, my child 
good-bye !' for one moment he drew her close to
him, and kissed her forehead ; and then, as Mr.
Wentworth came towards them, he motioned
her gently to go in, and without another word
took his place in the carriage.

Good-bye,' she said again, and all her heart
seemed to go out to him.

The keen evening breeze blew her white
gown about her feet, and lifted the wavy hair ;
but she took no heed. The lights wavered and
shone behind her ; from his dark corner he
could see her stand there, until the turn of the
road hid her from his sight, and then, ' Goodbye
for many a long month to come,' he said to
himself, ' for it will be that before I shall dare
to see your face again.'

SHALL I BRING HIM TO YOU ?'

Fleming was escorting his mistress to
the Vicarage, and Barry, a little
wearied by the sudden bustle and
movement, had retired to his own room. So
when Marjory had quitted her post in the dark
porch, she found Lilies standing disconsolately
by the great fireplace ; she looked pale and
miserable, and as Marjory came up to her, she
put out her hand with a wan little smile.

How cold and cheerless it feels ! everyone
has left me  even my mother. What can Mrs.
Moore want with her at this time of night ?'
rather fretfully ' But then, she is always so
inconsiderate.'

Mrs. Carr will be back in an hour or two,'
returned Marjory brightly.

She was depressed herself, poor gh'l ! But
the dull misery in Lilies's eyes touched her,
and threw her own troubles into the background.


Ah ! but it will be too late then,' in a
scarcely audible voice.

Too late for what, Sissie dear ?' putting her
arm round her as they stood side by side. * Is
there anything I can do to make you feel
better ? Something is troubling you. If you
will tell me what it is, I might find some way
of helping jou. Things may not be so bad as
you think ; it all depends on how we look at
them,' finished Marjory philosophically.

Oh, do you think so T turning to her
quickly. * Marjory, it is not easy for me to
explain. I am different from other girls. I
have never talked to anyone but my mother
about  about Harrel'

But if I know all about it, dear ; if there
be no need for you to tell me anything ?' returned
Marjory, with great tact. * Mr. Went worth is
going to London, and you and he are not
parting friends. It is that troubles you, is it
not ? It is so hard when people misunderstand
us, and take umbrage at our words. So much

pain may be saved by just a word of explanations


Oh, Marjory, how did you find all this out
so cleverly ? Did you hear what he said just
now ?  he must have his gaiety like other young
men. He who never cared for anything but
just his quiet home and his farms. It is
miserable enough when one's friends go away
hundreds of miles, and one is left behind. But
when they go in anger, when they will not
listen to a word of reason  then it is intolerable.'


Is Mr. Wentworth so angry with you T
She put the question very gently, but Lilies

was in too excited and over wrought a state to
answer calmly.

Oh,' she said, bursting into tears, 'I have
never seen him like this before. He is hard 
he is almost cruel ; but then he is not himself.
How did I know he would take it in this
dreadful way ? I have often said the same
tidings to him before, and he has been a little
sorry and vexed, but the next day he has always
made it up with mo. AVould I have hurt him
like this if I had known it ? He will not look
at me  he will not let me say a word to him.

He puts this distance between us just to punish
me and make me miserable. Oh, Marjory, if
he goes, and I do not see him again, I think it
will half kill me. Some things I can bear, but
not this  to let Hurrell go, thinking all these
dreadful things of me.'

Lilies had poured all this out between her
tiobs.

I think it will kill me she finished, almost
despairingly.

Shall I bring him to you, then ?' asked Marjory
quietly. 'He is coming back with the
papers for Barry, is he not ? Shall I go to
him, and say that there is something you have
to say to him, and he must come in for a
moment ?'

A sudden hope shone in Lilies's eyes.

Do you think he will come ? Marjory, dear
Marjory, do you think you could persuade him ?
If I could only just say to him that he misunderstood
me  that I never meant wdiat ho
thought  that he must not go away believing
such hard things of me  I should go to sleep
more happily. I should not dread the waking.'

Then I will certainly bring him,' returned
Marjory, with a reassuring smile. ' Cheer up,

Sissie dear, and dry your eyes. I do so hate
to see you cry ; it makes me feel bad. You are
always so bright, so full of life, that one cannot
imagine you in trouble.'

I look dreadfully ugly when I cry,' replied
Lilies, trying to laugh. ' I cannot understand
anyone falling in love with my long pale face.
It seems so ridiculous that anyone can care forme.'


Now sou look more like yourself,' observed
Marjory, in an approving tone. ' Do you know,
you rather shock me  you seem to take trouble
so badly ; such a little thing makes you ill.
Now I am not like that. I am so strong that
nothing seems to hurt me, and yet I know what
it is to be dreadfully unhappy.'

You poor dear !' kissing her. ' But, Marjory,
you must not say that ; Hurrell's anger is
not a little thing to me. I believe there are
some things that I could bear. If people died,
for example, if I lost them in that way  well, I
should mourn for them all my life ; but there
would not be this intolerable sense of loss.'

Not if she  not if Mrs. Carr were to die ?'
in a curiously low tone.

Oh, my mother!' with a sudden exquisite

pathos m her voice. ' God forbid that I should
survive her, Marjory ! But if it should be soif
she  my mother  went into that other room,
you know what I mean  I might break my
heart with longing for the sight of her dear
face, but I should never lose her ; she would be
mine  my mother still. My dear, death does
not separate hearts. I am not so poor a
Christian that I should believe that.'

*But if you were to lose her in any other
way ? If she were to be alive, and yet in
some strange way you were to be divided T
and there came a singular look into Marjory's
eyes.

How could I lose her, except by death ?
You strange girl, what can you mean by putting
such a question ? One's mother is one's mother
still, though oceans were to roll between us.'

Never mind what I mean,' returned Marjory
unsteadily. ' I am supposing things, that is all.
Oh, I do not mean death, nor am I talking about
earthly distances  what would that matter ? as
you say. But if you had a rival, Lilies, in your
mother's heart ; if you should find some change
in her ; if things were different between you 
oh, I cannot explain what I mean  I only want

VOL. III. 4to

find out vbat your Christian faith would do
for you then ?'

It would do little, I fear,' she returned
slowly. ' You are talking strangely, to-night,
Marjory ; but I think I see the drift of your
meaning. You are hinting at some sort of
moral separation  something impossible  that
could never happen.'

But if it did happen, Lilies T

My dear,' with a sweet, but very fleeting
smile, ' such a thing would not vex me long.
I should have no strength for such a sorrow as
that. Look what these three days have done ;
they have made me ill. But with my mother !
Oh, I could not live if there should be trouble
between her and me. Marjory, how frightened
you look ! Why, we are talking this nonsense
just to pass the time, I believe. Oh, you do
not know me, or you would not put such
questions. Death ! well, that is sad ; but we
have our friends still close beside us, though we
do not see them. But a division of heart,
unkindness, any shadow of change between
those who love each other  it is this that I
could not bear ; the weight and misery of it
would crush my life out.'

o

Do not let us talk any more returned
Marjory, in a hard voice.

A new pang tormented her  a prevision of
evil. Lilies's words rang in her ears, and
through her heart, many a day after they were
spoken : ' Unkindness, any shadow of change
between those who love each other  it is this
that I could not bear ; the weight and misery
of it would crush my life out.' And she had
listened to them  she who knew that one day
she would rob Lilies of her mother. Marjory's
own heart was beating so that she could hardly
breathe. It was almost a relief to her that at
that moment she could hear the carriage-wheels
sounding in the distance. Lilies had heard
them too, for she turned suddenly very pale.

You must go, or you will be too late,' she
said, giving Marjory a little push. And Marjory,
without another word, opened the door,
and ran out into the darkness.

Is that you, Mr. Wentworth ?' she exclaimed,
as a dark figure became visible.

But another instant proved to her that it was
only the groom walking up to the house with
the papers.

Take them to the door, I must speak to your

452

master a moment she said quickly, as the man
in some surprise touched his hat, and seemed
about to address her.

The rain was falling slightly, but Marjory did
not heed that. She ran down the gravel walk,
with her white gown gleaming in the murky
light, and in another moment had startled Mr
Wentworth, who had taken his groom's place,
and was holding in his fretting mare.

Lilies !' he exclaimed, and then stopped in
some confusion, for that tall figure could not be
hers.

Oh, I am not Lilies, but it is Lilies who
wants you. Please o in a moment, Mr. Wentworth
; there is something she wishes to say.
There is your man coming back, and it will
not hurt the mare to stand a little. Please
come, for it is raining, and I cannot wait an'
longer.'

 I think I had better not,' he returned
slowly. ' You are very good. Miss Deane, to
take this trouble ; but please tell her I had better
not come in to-night.'

 I shall tell her no such thing,' replied
Marjory, roused by this opposition.  Mr.
Wentworth, Lilies is not well ; there is some


thing troubling her. She will not sleep to-night
if she be crossed. Come,' as he wavered, evidently
debating whether he should yield or not,
five minutes will not hurt your mare, or give
Mrs. Went worth any great anxiety.'

Her sarcasm acted as a spur ; he threw the
reins to his servant, and prepared to accompany
her. Marjory only waited until he closed the
gate behind him, and then she ran in.

He is coming, Lilies ! ' she panted, as she passed
through the hall; *but it is raining, and my dress
is wet ;' and with this excuse she disappeared.

I told Miss Deane that I had better not
come in to-night,' observed Mr. Wentworth a
little abruptly, as he came forward into the
light. ' I knew your mother was out, and it is
nearly nine, and the mare is rather fresh ; but
she said that you wanted to speak to me.'

I do want to speak to you,' she said, in a
pleading voice. ' Hurrell, you may think what
you like, but I could not let you go away all
that distance, feeling you were angry with me.
When people are angry with me, and say hard
things, it makes me ill. I do not seem able to
bear it.'

Have you sent for me to tell me that I have

made you ill ? Is that likely to do you or meany
good T

No she returned, flushing at this ; * but we
have been friends for so many years, that surely
I may ask you to forgive me

But the same angry glow came over his face
as she said this.

Things have come to a pretty pass, indeed,
when there can be a question of forgiveness
between you and me! That I should hear
you say such words to me, who have worshipped
the very ground you trod upon ! Oh, Lilies,
how can you !' And the poor fellow averted his
face, that she should not see how her words
moved him.

Am I not to be forgiven, then T she returned
a little piteously, for she misunderstood him.
Hurrell, I never meant to hurt you so ! You
would not listen to me, or I would have
explained my meaning better.'

I quite understood you he replied, leaning
his head on his hand as he propped himself
against the high carved mantelpiece. * You
cared for me a good deal, but not enough to
sacrifice your freedom for me. You objected to
my conditions ; you threw me over after years of

encouragement, and denied me what alone could
satisfy me. Well, you have your freedom,
Lilies: I withdraw my suit. You mays have my
forgiveness too, if you will  as certainly as
you have my love. Well, does that not content
3'ou ?' as she gave him a most sorrowful look.
Will you tell me again that I have made you

ill r

No ; it is myself  my own fault. But,
Hurrell, what have I done so wrong, after all ?
I did not want to be married just yet'  blushing
painfully as she spoke: 'I said we were happier
as we were. Hush ! please let me finish,' as he
seemed about to interrupt her with some impatience.
' If I had known how it would hurt
you, I would not have tried so hard for my own
way. Girls are silly sometimes ; they do not
know what they want. I cannot change m}
nature. I am foolish, and like a child, I know;
but now I have sent for you to say that I will
not cause you pain any longer  you shall not be
so changed and unlike yourself through me.
Hurrell, indeed things shall be as you wish 
your will shall be mine in future.'

What do you mean ?' he asked, fixing on
her a keen glance, for he could not credit what

he heard. ' You are generally so frank, Lilies;
you tell me the whole truth about yourself. I
have said so much all these years, surely you
owe it to me to speak out plainly now

I cannot speak more plainly,' she replied,
casting down her eyes, for her confusion was
very great. ' Hurrell, you know best what you
have wished so long.'

I have wished for you to be my wife, Lilies.
How many times have I asked you ?'

Well, you shall have your wish by-and-by/
in a trembling voice ; but Lilies hid her face
completely now.

But this time he understood her. If there
were bitter tears shed in that self-surrender  if
the sacrifice were greater than even he could
guess  he knew nothing of it. How could he
realize anything but that the wish of his life was
granted ? his bird was fluttering still, but he
had it safely ; and as he took the fair head
between his hands, and kissed it gently, he bade
God bless her for her generous gift.

Are you happy?' she asked him by-and-by,
and her lovely eyes seemed to look wistfully at
him.

'Most truly and entirely hapjiy, my dearest!*

Oh, 1 am so glad !' and her voice took a little
cooing note of pleasure, like a mother vho sees
her child unexpectedly gratified. 'That is what
I wanted. All these days I have said to myself,
** If I can only make up to him for my unkindness;
what does anything matter if he will only
own himself happy ?" '

'You darling!  but surely you share my
happiness ?' rather jealously.

A little bit,' in her old mischievous voice.
But I am not going to gratify your vanity anymore
; for, after all, you behaved very badly,
and gave me a great deal of trouble. Now,
Hurrell, as it is long past nine, and the mare is
so fresh, and '

But he would not allow her to finish her
sentence.

Oh, you are not going to dismiss me in that
fashion!' he said, in an offhand manner. 'Do
you suppose the mare is standing out in that
rain ? Of course, Anderson had his wits about
him  he is a sharp lad  and has taken her back
to the stable. I am waiting to see your mother,
Lilies.' But at the mention of her mother,
Lilies grew suddenly grave. ' Now,' he went
on, for he was watching her closely, and could

almost read her thoughts, * I am gong to talk
to you very seriously, and you must be so good
as to listen to me. Do you think that all this
will make any difference  that I shall ever
come between you two  that jou should look
sad at the mention of her name ? She will
have two sons, that is all ; and we shall each
have two mothers. Oh, I know exactly what
to expect,' as she looked up at him with a
mute expression of gratitude. * When I come
in tired from my magistrate's work, or from
tramping over my farms, and ask for my wife 
well, I shall have to go to Mai shank to find
her. And if I take you abroad, say on our
wedding-trip  and the south of France or Italy
will be just the thing for October  of course, we
shall find your mother and Barry waiting for us.
And pray what have I said, that there should be
tears in your eyes ?'

Because you are so good,' she returned, with
quivering lips. * Because I think there is no
one so good as you.' And this answer was
perfectly satisfactory to the young man.

Marjory, sitting alone in her own room,
thought it was long before the opening of the
hall - door signified Mrs. Carr's return ; and

she thought it longer still before the dog-cart
was brought round, and Mr. Wentworth's voice
was heard calling out a cheerful good-night.
Marjory stood and listened, or paced her room
restlessly. They had forgotten her, she thought.
It was not for her to remind them of her existence
; there was much that those two must
have to say to each other. But she would not
seek her bed until she knew how things were,
and if she were to wish Lilies joy.

Presently, towards midnight, she heard their
voices, and went out into the passage. They
were coming slowly up the staircase hand-in-hand,
and both their faces were pale ; only there
was a bright, excited look in Lilies' s eyes. At
the sight of Marjory, she gave a little cry.

Oh, you poor child !' she said, running upto
her ;  you are still dressed at this time of
night, and we had forgotten you ! How unkind
and selfish you must have thought us !'

No, indeed ; only I was too anxious to rest.
Is it all right, Lilies ?  are you going to sleep
happily ?'

It is all as it should be,' returned Mrs. Carr
cheerfully ;  Lilies has made it up witliHurrell,
and atoned for all her bad conduct. Now, you

must congratulate us both, Marjory. Lilies is
giving me just the sou I wanted. Hurrell will
take care of us all, and we shall be as happy as
possible.'

It struck Marjory that Mrs. Carr spoke as if
she were anxious to cheer Lilies ; and certainly
the girl drew back, and looked a little grave and
shy, as Marjory warmly kissed and congratulated
her.

She is tired. All this has tired and excited
her,' went on Mrs. Carr, with a quick, warning
glance at Marjory not to say any more on
the subject. ' When she has had a good night's
sleep she will feel better able to realize things.
Come, Lilies, Marjory will excuse our talking
any more to-night. Hurrell will be coming
early tomorrow, and you must be your old
bright self.'

And putting her arm gently round the girl's
shoulder, she drew her away.

\E MUST TAKE WHAT HEAVEN SENDS.'

UT it was many days before Lilies was
 her old bright self again ; those who
watched her closely  Mrs. Carr and

Marjory  knew that there was some strain or
oppression on the girl's sensitive spirits. Her
nervous and delicate organization made itself
clearly visible.

When Mr. Wentworth was present, this condition
of things was not so noticeable. Her
gentle sprightliness returned, and nothing could
be more frank and affectionate than her manner
when they were alone together. Her one
anxiety seemed to make him completely happy,
and she certainly succeeded in this.

Hurrell's years of devotion had reaped their
reward ; the young man seemed almost amazed

at his own happiness. His young fiancee was
so perfectly sweet and submissive. All her
little tyrannies, her girlish airs and attempts to
subjugate him, seemed buried in the past. If
he expressed a wish, she was always desirous
to carry it out. If, in the intoxication of his
sudden triumph, he grew a little masterful  as
men will, though without meaning it  her
meekness never gave him a hint that she was
not yet his wife. But, indeed, any girl might
have been proud of such a lover. Those dio
saw them together thought that nothing could
be more perfect than Hurrell's behaviour.
"When others were present, he never obtruded
his claims on her attention. Only the quiet
look of mutual understanding that passed
between them spoke of their deep affection.

When Hurrell was with her, Lilies seemed
perfectly content ; but in his absence, and
especially when she was alone with Marjory,
she had fits of gravity  silent moods that were
somewhat inexplicable : if roused out of these,
she grew captious and fretful. Mrs. Carr more
than once hinted that she was sure that Lilies
was not as well as usual. She did not sleep
with her old soundness, and nothing would

induce her to sleep alone. She came regularly
into Mrs. Carr's room of a night ; sometimes
she was wakeful, and would talk far into the
night, and there was no silencing her ; and at
other times she would lie in perfect silence, but
Mrs. Carr knew that she was not asleep, for
every now and then a quick sigh escaped her.

If I were you, I should consult Dr. Ainslie
about her sleeplessness,' observed Marjory very
wisely; but she was almost sorry that she had
given this hint, for when Mrs. Carr returned
from her colloquy with the doctor, her eyes
looked as though she had been weeping.

Oh, Marjory,' she said, when they were alone
together, ' I think I am very unhappy about my
children. Dr. Ainslie has quite frightened me
about Lilies : we have always thought her so
strong. But no ; he says it is only her spirits.
She has a weak heart ; at least, he did not tell
me exactly what was the matter. But he said
any form of excitement was bad for her. A
long engagement  well, he would not hold with
that ; he thought the sooner she was married the
better. He thinks so highly of Hurrell  he is
just the husband for her. He is so gentle and
quiet that he will calm down her excitability.

Perhaps, if they went abroad and lived quietly 
but just now she was not strong. It was not so
much what he said, but it was his manner,
Marjory. Do you think he is keeping back anything
from me ?'

Of course, Marjory disclaimed this stoutly.
Nevertheless, she had an uneasy consciousness
in her own mind that Dr. Ainslie had indulged
in some mental reservation  as doctors will.
She thought Lilies was certainly not herself ;
such unequal spirits could hardly belong to a
healthy condition of mind and body. But she
did her best to quiet Mrs. Carr's fears; and very
soon a strange occurrence, or rather a series
of occurrences, turned their attention into a
different channel  happily for Lilies, who would
certainly have resented much watchfulness on
their part.

It was Lilies who brought them the news,
about a fortnight after her own engagement
with the young Squire of Headlands. She had
been for a walk with Hurrell and Lassie, and
he had left her and Lassie to return through
the village alone, as he had to transact some
business at a farmhouse. Marjory, who looked
up from her work with a welcoming smile, was

surprised at the flushed and disturbed look on
Lilies's face, as she entered the hall.

 Do you know what news I am bringing you
back T she said, in a tone of strong disgust.
Mother, how can people behave so ? I am
quite ashamed of him  a clever man like him,
and at his age, too.'

IVFrs. Carr seemed somewhat perplexed at this
speech.

You are speaking in riddles, my dear,' she
said quietly. ' What clever man do you mean?
I know of none in this place except Dr. Ainslie,
and I certainly know nothing but good of him ;
there is Mr. Moore, but surely you are not
speaking of the Vicar ?'

Oh no. Of course it is Dr. Ainslie.
Mother, you are too good and innocent for this
world ! You would never dream of such a
thing unless they forced you to believe it. Poor
Margaret ! My heart is bleeding for her  such
an indignity to be put on her !'

Really, Lilies, this is too mysterious,'
observed Mrs. Carr, smiling. ' I shall begin
to think that Dr. Ainslie is going to be married
again.'

And you will think what is true. And to
VOL. III. 46

Katie Stallard, of all people in the world!' and
as Marjory started and exclaimed at this, she
went on : ' Yes, you were right, Marjory ; you
were cleverer at finding her out than either
mother or I. Think how preposterous it allis
! That little round-faced demure girl to be
Margaret's stepmother, and Margaret  whose
father is everything to her  who has been his
companion from a child!'

'I am very grieved and shocked to hear this,'
returned Mrs. Carr, who certainly looked both.
And then she added quickly: * Hush, Lilies !
don't seem as though you were telling us. There
is Katie herself coming up the garden-walk.
Where did you get your news  quick !'

Katie told me. I met her just now ; but
she never spoke of following me, the sly little
puss !'

But here Mrs. Carr gave her a warning look,
for the hall-door stood open, in its usual summer
fashion, and already Katie was on the threshold.


She came in quickly, and went up to Mrs.
Carr, holding out her little gloved hands, in a
humble deprecating way.

Oh, Lilies,' she said, ' have you told them?

I followed you ; I wanted to be the first, but
you and Lassie were too quick for me  I could
not catch you up. I thought you would be all
talking of me, and I wanted to hear what you
said. Please don't scold me  please don't be
hard upon me  you know I cannot help it.'

This is very strange news, Katie ; I hardly
know how to believe it,' observed Mrs. Carr,
with a gravity that was certainly not promising.



Oh, please do not say so !' implored Katie,
with a flickering of her light eyelashes. * How
could I help saying "Yes "  a poor lonely little
creature as I am  when that good man  he is
a good man, is he not, Mrs. Carr?  offered me
the shelter of his home ?'

But you have a good home at the Vicarage,
Katie, and Mrs. Moore treats you as her own
daughter ; and, my dear, forgive me if I say
what is the truth, Dr. Aisle is old enough to
be your father.'

Oh, what does that matter T returned Miss
Stallard, clasping her hands ; but her pink
cheeks deepened a little. ' I never cared for
young men  never ; they are so vapid and
egotistical. It is themselves they think about,

462

not us; but I have always reverenced grey hair.
What does it matter about the disparity in our
ages, if I can only be a comfort to him ?'

But, Katie, have you considered Margaret's
feelings in this ? Remember, she has been
everything to her father ever since her mother
died. I am afraid this will be a great trial to
her '

But she was interrupted.

How can you say such things, my dear Mrs.
Carr ? I do at on Margaret. Ask Dr. Ainslie
if I have not the very highest opinion of her.
If she be a little visionary and impracticable,
those are not grievous faults ; I am sure we
shall be the most united household possible.
You know there is nothing I love so much as
to be useful ; housekeeping is a pleasure to me.
Oh, we shall arrange everything admirably ;
dear Margaret will be free to doctor the sick
people, and teach in the schools, and be the St.
Kilda's factotum, and I can relieve her from all
domestic drudgery.'

Mrs. Carr made no answer to this. Perhaps
she found it difficult to adjust her thoughts ; but
Lilies, who had sat by in indignant silence,
observed in a slightly sarcastic tone :

I hope Margaret likes this division of duties.
Is the wedding to be soon, Katie ?'

But at this harmless question, Miss Stallard
seemed for the first time really embarrassed.

Dr. Ainslie wishes it,' she stammered.
There is to be no fuss, no ceremony ; dear
Mrs. Moore is not to be troubled. I am to goto
church in my travelling-dress. I am afraid
you will be shocked, Mrs. Carr ; but Dr. Ainslie
says, at his age, any waiting would be absurd.
Thursday week  that is the day. Of course I
must be guided by his wishes.'

Thursday week !' ejaculated Lilies ; and
then she said, in rather a cool tone, ' Does
Margaret know this T

Her father told her last night returned
Miss Stallard, with an uncomfortable blush.
Mrs. Moore only knew yesterday; and of course
she was the first to be told. No one is nice tome
about it,' went on Katie, looking up appealingly
with innocent blue eyes. ' Mrs. Moore
cried, and said I was an unfeeling girl to leave
her with all those children on her hands. She
counted on me to put it off for three months ;
but I hope that I convinced her that I could do
nothing of the kind. " Dr. Aisle has chosen

me  a poor, penniless little governess "  that
is what I said to her. "Do you think, after all
his goodness and generosity, that I could go
against his expressed wishes ?" And of course,
after that, she could say nothing.'

I think it is a pity Dr. Ainslie is in such a
hurry,' observed Mrs. Carr quietly. * Mrs.
Moore has been like a mother to you, Katie ;
no one could have been kinder. "Would it not
have been better if you had put off your marriage
until she had found some one to take your place ?
Poor woman ! it is certainly rather hard to have
all those children left on her hands !'

*We have thought of that,' replied Miss
Stallard quickly. * Dr. Ainslie and I have
talked it over together. He quite agrees with
me that it will just suit Margaret  at least for
the present. You know she has a perfect passion
for teaching  it comes as naturally to her as
housekeeping does to me. I was never intended
for a governess  never ! a stupid little thing
like me  but dear Margaret loves it of all
things. I talked it over with Dr. Ainslie, and
he promised to speak to Margaret about it ; and
so I dropped a hint to Mrs. Moore. "I am sure
dear Margaret will overlook Edith's and Helena's

lessons; and perhaps she would not mind teaching
Bessie, and Goody, and Goosey for the
present.'

I hope you did not say this without consulting
Margaret,' remonstrated Lilies ; but Miss
Stallard only laughed at her grave tone.

My dear Lilies, of course Dr. Ainslie will
say what he likes to his own daughter. What
have I to do with it ? I shall never come
between them  never ! If I drop a hint or an
opinion, and he thinks proper to act upon it,
that is not my affair. What I said to him was
very simple : ** Mrs. Moore is dreadfully put outwith
me ; I wish I could find a substitute for
myself. I should be happier in my mind if I
could arrange something. Dear Margaret is always
full of schemes for joining the Zenana Mission
I wish we could persuade her that a home mission
would be just as useful. Those dear children,
now  well, would not that be a work worthy of
our Margaret ?" '

I think you stated your wishes very
plainly.'

I  I have no wishes,' and here the sand'
eyelashes twitched a little nervously. ' I
always say frankly what I think ; that is the

best plan, is it not ? Dr. Ainslie is so good and
considerate, he wanted me to have my mother
and one or two of my sisters up for our
wedding. But I said no ; dear Mrs. Moore
must not be troubled. No one shall be
burthened with my relations. If he chose to
marry a poor girl, his generosity should not be
abused. Goody and Goosey shall put on their
clean white frocks and be my bridesmaids, but
there shall be no fuss, no ceremony at all ; and
Dr. Ainslie quite approves of it all.'

Well, I wish you every happiness, Katie
observed Mrs. Carr, but her tone was without
enthusiasm. She kissed the girl rather coldly,
as she took her leave. * Lilies,' she said, shaking
her head, when their visitor had departed,
I am not pleased about this. Poor Margaret
will be dreadfully cut up ! She will feel as
though she has lost her father. I think you
and Marjory had better go down to her after
luncheon, and I will go across to the Vicarage
and condole with Mrs. Moore. I feel very
angry with Dr. AinsHe, at his age, to marry a
girl like Katie. I am disappointed in her, too.
I do not like the way she speaks about Margaret ;
it is too patronizing  it is not nice in one so

much younger. Oh, my dears, what a world
this is!' and Mrs. Carr sighed as she laid aside
her embroidery.

Marjory's opinion was that Lilies had better
go alone to see Margaret ; but Lilies somewhat
hastily negatived this proposal. It was an
awkward visit to pay, and she would be glad of
Marjory's assistance ; she was afraid of speaking
too frankly, and Marjory's presence would
keep her in order : and so they went together.

But they were so late in starting that Mrs.
Carr met them on her return from the
Vicarage.

You lazy girls !' she said, as she stopped to
speak to them ; 'you have been talking instead
of getting ready. It will be tea-time before
you are back.'

What did Mrs. Moore say, mother dear ?'

Why, she is as angry as possible. She
says Katie has behaved very badly. She has
been engaged some time to Dr. Ainslie, only
they have kept their own counsel. The children
were always saying that they met Dr. Ainslie
whenever they went out, and Katie was always
running in to Margaret on some errand or other,
but no one suspected anything ; it is all very

unsatisfactory. Mrs. Moore says she is quite
deceived in Katie ; she thinks she has been very
underhanded about this, and has shovn herself
extremely ungrateful. She has been quite a
mother to her, and has taken such care of her.
But now Katie complains of a pain in her side,
and says she has been overworked, and she is
sure it is this that has made Dr. Ainslie insist
on such an early marriage.'

Such nonsense !' broke out Lilies. ' I am
sure Katie looks the picture of health.'

Poor Mrs. Moore quite cried about it all !
She said the Vicar was hurt, too, for they were
all very fond of Katie. And do you know,
Lilies, I am afraid she has not been perfectly
open. She must have done more than drop a
hint about Margaret, for Mrs. Moore said tome
that she would be quite in despair at losing
Katie, if Margaret were not coming to take
her place with the children, at least for the
present. Of course, I said nothing ; but I do
feel Katie has not been fair in this.'

Lilies gave a little shrug, and looked at
Marjory.

You were the only one who understood
her,' she said frankly, as tlie} walked on.

Poor Margaret, I am afraid this is a sad
business !'

Margaret turned very pale when she saw her
visitors, but she greeted them quietly. Marjory,
who had caught sight of her first, had been
struck by her listless attitude. Margaret was
sitting by the fireless grate, with her hands
clasped upon her lap, evidently doing nothing :
her books were closed, and her spectacles laid
aside, and her mild, short-sighted eyes had a
troubled look in them.'

This is very kind,' she said, in a low voice ;

but I suppose 5ou have heard '

Yes, Katie told us. Oh, I am so shocked,
Margaret  so sorry about it all ; and so are
mother and Marjory.'

Please don't tell me what they think ;' and
here her lips trembled slightly. ' When a thing
is settled, talking is no use ; and if it be for my
father's happiness '

But, Margaret, surely yours ought to be
consulted too.'

Oh, that is not the question ;' and her
grand head drooped a little. ' We are not sent
into the world to work out our own happiness,
but our own salvation and the salvation of others.

If my father wishes to marry again  if I am
not sufficient for his comfort  well, it may be
hard, perhaps  I do not say it is not a trial 
but he knows what is best for himself, and it is
my duty to submit.'

'but Miss Stallard !' ejaculated Marjory;
how can Dr. Ainslie choose such a girl to be
his companion and yours ?'

A deep flush passed over Margaret's face.

Please hush ! it is not for me to question
my father's choice. I have always been very
fond of Katie, though our tastes are not the
same. She is very amiable and pretty  do
you not think so ? A clever man like my father
could not care for her if she were not as nice as
possible. I am afraid I am not sufficiently
generous about it  at least, he said so last night.
She is young, and poor, and friendless, and the
world is too heavy for her. Of course I ought
to be glad to welcome her, poor little thing !'

Margaret, I think it is you who are to be
pitied,' observed Lilies gently. ' It will make
such a change in your life ; no  I am not saying
anything unkind of Katie. It is better to leave
those sort of things unsaid  hard words do no
good. But it is you of whom I am thinking.

"What should I have felt if anyone had come
between my mother and me T
Margaret smiled faintly.

Oh, Lilies, we each have our idols, and then
we get punished through our very love; but our
cases are not alike. My father is not always
vith me ; and now I shall be too busy to sit
down and fret over what cannot be helped.'

But you are always busy.'

Oh, but there will not be a minute of my
time unemployed now. What, have you not
heard ?' as Lilies thought it better to pretend
ignorance. ' Mrs. Moore is in dreadful trouble
about the poor children, and my father thinks it
will be a good thing for me to offer my services,
at least for a time.'

But, Margaret '  rather dubiously  'are you
sure that this will not interfere with your other
work r

Perhaps it will,' she returned calmly. 'But
I think it is better not to be self-willed even
over one's work. If a neighbour is in trouble,
it is surely my duty to help her; and then
I can see my father wishes it. I have the
evenings for my poor people  I shall not be
wanted at home.' Here, in spite of her courage.

the tears rushed to her eyes. ' ]\Iy father will
not miss me so badly  I mean, he will have a
wife to see after his little comforts. Katie is
an excellent manager. I should not like poor
people to suffer ; and if there are all those
little girls to teach, besides my two boys, there
will be only my evenings free.'

I know what it will be !' returned Lilies
impetuously. *You will overwork yourself, and
then the world will lose a saint !'

 It will lose a very weak, foolish woman,*
replied Margaret, with a sigh. ' Oh, what a
blessed rest it would be just to get away from
one's self for a little ! How the old Adam
sticks to one, in spite of all one's efforts. Lilies,
dear, please do not talk any more about me and
my miserable affairs. We must take what
heaven sends us, with both hands, and do the
best we can with it  grumbling never helped
anyone yet. Now tell me all the Mavisbank
news, and a little about Redlands, too, if you
will.'

And she leant back in her chair, with such
on exhausted look upon her face that Marjory
took pity on her, and changed the subject
quickly.

MARJORY, I AM HERE.'

'HEN Hurrell heard this wonderful
piece of news, he expressed his
indignation in no measured terms.
What an old fool the doctor must be, to be
caught by that little smooth-haired chit of a
girl ! I always told my mother that she was
too deep for my taste. What an affront to
Margaret, a grand creature like that ! You are
my liege lady, Lilies ; but after you, I do not
believe Westmorland holds another woman to
compare with her.'

Now, if I had never returned from Peru,'
observed Lilies, with a charming pout,  I have
no doubt you would have married Margaret.'
Of course, she expected to be contradicted ; but

to her surprise Hurrell replied, with the frankness
that was natural to him :

No doubt it would have been so ; Margaret
and I were old playmates. AVhen I was ten
years old I made her a decided offer ; I gave her
half my worldly goods, a share of my marbles
and some hardbake, on the express understanding
that she was to be my wife, and do all my
sums for me. I am not quite sure that I did
not jilt her, when I transferred my grown-up
affections to you. What do you say, Lilies ?'

Lilies gave him an affectionate little smile,
but she did not answer. She was too sure of
him to be jealous. No doubts could mar her
perfect faith in him ; but all the same his speech
troubled her. No girl quite likes to hear that
there was a time when her image was not
paramount in her lover's imagination ; at one
time in his life, Margaret, and not she, had
been Hurrell's friend. She wondered a little
curiously if Margaret ever remembered this
childish episode ; if the defection of her old
playmate had given her pain ; if anj- promissory
scheme of happiness had been checked when
the young squire began to haunt Mavisbank.
If things were so, I should never find it out

from Margaret she thought; 'her large unselfish
nature would sustain a martyrdom rather
than make a demand. I have known her all
these years, and I have never heard her ask
anything for herself;' and in this she did justice
to Margaret.

Only a faint glimmer of the truth ever came
io Lilies  a shadowy suspicion that never vexed
her by becoming reality. No one really guessed
Margaret's secret but Marjory, who, in her own
unhappiness, was very keen to detect trouble in
another. But even she only deduced slight
imaginary inferences.

Margaret's noble reserve baffled even Marjory.
Neither she nor any human being knew of the
conflict that Margaret fought that night when
she knew Lilies had promised to be Hurrell
Wentworth's wife. When it was past, and she
had regained her lost calmness, she took down
from the shelf a favourite book ; it opened of
itself at a page that looked defaced and stained,
as though with tears, and then she read slowly
the following stanza :

That bitter night
I sat astonished, till the unmeaning light

VOL. III. 47

Of dawn broke on my heart, and showed how bare

It was. The evening and the morning were

The first day of an empty life to me.

I rose, and set my window wide to the free,

Fresh east, and knelt as I was used. May He

Who loved us until death, forget the prayer

I prayed that day !'

That was true !' she said with a sigh ; but
as she read on, something himiuous, like a
smile, lit up her pale face:

I rose at length, and swept
My heart, and garnished it, and never wept
When all the precious things were laid away
Which might remind me of the summer day,
Now gone for ever. All the morning hours
The sun poured richly through the windows wide
Into the vacant rooms, I brought sweet flowers
And decked the house. " Let fragrant things abide
Even in the Chamber still, from which the guest
Is gone for ever. Here let sunshine rest.
And the glad breezes enter, laughing low
And treading soft. Then I shall come and go
Without this heavy sense of loneliness
Oppressing me. These simple guests will bless
The Haunted Chamber"'

And when she had read so far, knowing
within herself the full meaning of this parabolic
and lovely poem, she wrote with her pencil,

upon the margin, a brief sentence from lier
old friend, Thomas Ti Kempis : * When thou
shalt come to this estate, that tribulation
shall seem sweet, and thou shalt relish it
for Christ's sake ; then think it to be well
with thee, for thou hast found a paradise upon
earth And with that she closed the book
with a firm hand, as though she were shutting
up some precious treasure that would lose
fragrance by being exposed to the light of
day.

Margaret was conscious of no heroism when
she so resolutely put away from her all thoughts
of private happiness, and set herself simply to
fulfil the duties of the daj Neither did she
weaken her lofty purposes by self-blame, or
bitter censure on others.

When Hurrell, in his perfect honesty, had
told Lilies of his esteem and admiration for his
old playmate, and had added that jesting
remark in which he accused himself laughingly
of having jilted Margaret for her sake, he had
no idea how deep that childish attachment of
theirs had been on Margaret's part.

Until Lilies' s arrival at Mavisbank, Hurrell
had haunted the doctor's house, and Margaret

472

had been a constant visitor at Headlands. The
very frankness of Hurrcll's friendship for her
had banded her eyes to the fact that his boyish
fancy for her had merged into a passionate and
absorbing affection for the fair-haired LiHas.
It was long before Margaret found it out for
herself.

Hurrell, in his masculine carelessness and
blindness, never guessed at Margaret's bruised
hopes. He had been very fond of Maggie once ;
he had told her everything, and made her his
confidante after a brotherly fashion. Of course
he admired her  a grand simple creature, with
no selfishness and no littleness about her ; but
if he had ever made love to her, he had forgotten
it entirely. Lilies had so bewitched him that
even Margaret faded into the background.
He had no unkind intentions. Hurrell never
hurt the smallest and most helpless creature of
God's creation without a sort of pang that loss
of life was necessary : he would have been
incapable of wounding a woman. Margaret
knew this ; forgave him wholly ; honoured him
above all men  though in intellect he was a
pigmy beside a feminine giant  and loved Lilies
more because Hurrell loved her than for her

own sake. And then, because her faithful
heart made any sort of change impossible, and
once loving meant always loving with her, she
set herself to fill up the meagre outlines of her
life with other people's joys and sorrows.  She
would dwell at the gates of their happiness,' the
humble creature told herself, ' not as a beggar,
but as a free woman, rejoicing in their good
gifts. We must be content with what heaven
sends us,' she had said ; and in saying it, she
was not far from peace.

And now another trouble, differing in its
intensity, but threatening the very root of her
domestic peace, had come upon Margaret.
Hurrell had failed her, but she had still her
father ; and what comfort there had been in
that thought ! But now she was to be no
longer his sole companion. In all the world
of living, breathing human beings, there was
not one who looked to her for happiness, who
felt her necessary to him ; and oh the blinding
anguish of this, * None loves thee best.'

Margaret was fond of Katie  that is, she
never refused to open her heart to anyone who
seemed to need her affection ; and the poor little
friendless thing had seemed an object of pity.

But as time passed on, and she saw more of the
girl, she was not blind to her faults.

She is not in love with mj father,' she said
to herself sorrowfully ; * but she is poor and
ambitious, and needs a home. And then she
hates teaching ; and she is like a kitten, she
wants to be petted. Oh, there is no harm in
Tier ! She has only manoeuvred in her little
way to get what she wants. But when she
comes here, it is I who will be in the way ; it
is Katie who will be jealous of me. If my father
talks to me, well, she will not like that ; she is
not clever, and it is irksome to listen to two
people talking over one's head. And she will
not let me do anything for him ; and I must sit
with my hands in my lap, and my father's wife
will wait upon him. Oh, it will be better 
far better, to help Mrs. Moore, and my poor
people, and anyone that wants me, than to sit
there, and feel one's heart turning to bitterness.
I will never pain my father by looking unhappy,
or as though he had made a mistake. Other
people will say that to him by their looks, but
not his daughter.'

Margaret hinted at these resolutions she had
formed when Marjory came to see her one

evening about a week after Katie's engagement
was known.

It was about three days before the wedding,
and she had left Lilies at the Vicarage. They had
taken some handsome gifts from Mavisbank  a
silk dress from Mrs. Carr, and some beautifully
embroidered handkerchiefs. ' For we must be
good to her for Margaret's sake,' Mrs. Carr had
said ; and she knew the silk dress would embellish
the girl's scanty wardrobe.

Katie's blue eyes sparkled with pleasure as
she unfolded the silk breadths.

Oh, how kind !' she exclaimed. ' Do you
know, I was so naughty that I nearly cried
because I had only one new frock ; and that is
the one I am to be married in the day after
tomorrow. I was quite unhappy, for I knew
poor mamma could not give me a trousseau ;
but Dr. Ainslie laughed at me, and said he was
marrying me and not my frocks ; but that is so
like a man  they never think of details as we
do. But oh !' interrupting herself, * this silk is
lovely ; and as for those handkerchiefs,' pouncing
on them in a kittenish way, * they are fit fora
princess !'

Marjory had cut short the little bride-elect's

raptures rather ruthlessly by taking her departure.
She would not wait to see the handsome
mantle that Mrs. Moore had provided, or
the beautiful lace and embroidery that Mrs.
Wentworth had sent. She was in no mood for
Katie's affectations. She went away on some
pretext or other, leaving Lilies behind her ; and
then an impulse drew her to the bow-windowed
house where Margaret sat alone, puzzling herself
over the problems of existence.

They sat and talked a little, and then Marjory
said abruptly : * I suppose you will be at
the church, Margaret  I mean on Thursday ?'

Yes,' she returned quietly ; ' my father
Wishes it. They are going to Grange for a
fortnight. You must come and see me a great
deal when I am alone. Oh, I forgot !' with an
attempt at cheerfulness ; ' I have promised
Mrs. Moore to begin lessons with the children
on Monday. Only my evenings will be free ;
and then I have my poor people to visit.
Never mind, we shall meet somehow ; and I
like to be busy as though to check any pitying
comments.

You will never let me speak,' remonstrated
Marjory, in a grumbling tone. * You are so

good and strong that you can live without
sympathy. I wish you would let me say once
for all how sorry I am for you.'

Margaret looked in her face with her gentle
short-sighted eyes.

If it will do you any good, Marjory, I will
listen to you ; hut it will only give me pain, and
just the sort of pain that I find it difficult to
bear. When one cannot speak without blaming
some one, it is so much wiser to be silent.'

Oh, you are a saint, as Lilies says,' was
Marjory's impatient rejoinder. ' I did not think
there was a woman living who could do without
sympathy.'

You are quite right,' returned Margaret,
speaking with effort ; no one can do without it.
I am quite sure of my friends' affection forme.
I never valued their kindness so much as
I do now. They would be my friends still more
if they would preach cheerfulness to me, instead
of trying to weaken my strength.'

Of course, I see what you mean,' reluctantly.


Do 3'ou not see the wisdom of the homely old
proverbs, 'rit is ill crying over spilt milk," and
*' Least said is soonest mended " ? It is such a

waste of words, just lamenting over what is not
to be remedied. It is as idle comfort as the
wailing of hired mourners round Jewish tombs.
A real friend would help one to look one's trouble
boldly in the face. I think that is what I would
do in a similar case.'

But your days will be so difficult to live,'
lamented Marjory, who knew now, by sad experience,
what it meant to war the galling yoke
of a strange trouble.

Days are made up of hours and minutes,'
returned Margaret, with a smile that was more
pathetic than tears. * There is one blessing, we
can only live one minute at a time, after all,'
with a wistful look. ' We are only like little
birds, pecking out of our Father's hand a crumb
here and a crumb there ; and *' not even a
sparrow " You know the rest, Marjory.'

Dear Margaret, if we could all be like you,
and live above our troubles !' burst from the
girl's lips, as she rose to take her leave.

But Margaret only shook her head a little
sadly. The gallant swimmer who is still breasting
the deep waters is only conscious of extort
and the coldness of the receding waves, and
scarcely sees the stars above his head.

Marjory walked thoughtfully towards Mavis-bank.
The early glory of summer lay round her,
but she scarcely heeded it. The bleating of the
young lambs and the lowing of calves from the
Castle Farm fell idly on her ear. The problematic
troubles of existence occupied her  the
difficulty of adjusting other people's lives according
to one's sense of fitness.

She was just turning in at the gate of Mavis-lank,
when a red-headed urchin, who was
loitering about the road, suddenly accosted
her.

Is your name Deane ?' he asked abruptly,
fixing a pair of wide-open blue eyes on Marjory,
about as luminous and intelligent as a baby-calf's.


*Yes,' said Marjory as abruptly; but she
coloured, as she always did now, at the falsity
of her claim to that name. ' Who are you, my
boy, and what do jou want with me ?'

I am George Patterson, and I live down at
Moreland's Cottages. Here's summit for you,
if your name is Deane.'

And he thrust a limp-looking paper in Marjory's
hand, rather untidily folded ; but as she
opened it curiously, the sigh of the well-known

handwriting made her heart beat with a sickening
prevision of coming difficulty.

Marjory she read, ' I am here. You have
promised me solemnly that you would come
to me if I were dying. There are not many
hours longer for me in this miserable world, so
you must not fail me. The boy will tell you
where I am at present.

Miriam Chard.'

The woman as sent me,' observed the boy,
who was too busy fingering the marbles in his
pocket to notice Marjory's evident emotion,
is Miss Atkinson, living down in Moreland's
Cottages. There is a lady with her that
sent the note.'

Will you take me to Moreland's Cottages ?'
interrupted Marjory, turning to him quickly.

She must go to her  that was her only
thought. If they missed her at the dinner-table,
well, that could not be helped. The
only idea she could grasp was, that Mrs. Chard
was here at St. Kilda's, that she was dying, and
that the proofs of her real parentage were in her
hands. There was not a moment to be lost.

She knew Miss Atkinson's name well. She was
a distant connection of Mrs. Chard's  a respectable
little dressmaker, who supported herself and
a crippled sister. Her one source of perplexity"
was, how had Mrs. Chard managed to drag herself
all these hundreds of miles in a dying state ?

Marjory walked fast, for her thoughts were as
tormenting as a gadfly ; and in a few minutes
they had reached Miss Atkinson's neat little
house, which was distinguished from the neighbouring
cottages by its trim flower-borders and
bee-hives, and the white curtains that festooned
the windows.

Miss Atkinson opened the door to them. She
was a kind, black-eyed little woman, and had
the bumps of benevolence and loquacity very
strongly developed. She eyed Marjory a little
doubtfully. She was not in her cousin's confidence,
and could not be sure that the stylish-looking
3'oung lady before her was the Marjory
who was Eobert Deane's daughter. She had
questioned her a little on the subject, and had
been answered peevishly that she had no
daughter now, and would not think of claiming
one. Marjory had been as good as lost to her
since the day she ran away.

She has beau asking a dozen times if yon
were not in sight,' began Miss Atkinson, with a
mournful shake of her head. ' She is terribly
bad and restless. I have had an awful time
with her since she came last Monday. " I ama
dying woman, Susan," she said to me that
night, 'but I made up my mind that I would
be buried alongside of father and mother in
St. Kilda's churchyard ; and so I thought,
being cousins once removed, you would take mein
and do for me, like a good Samaritan." But
there, Miriam was always a grand talker, and
used longish words when short ones would have
done. She has had a fine education  not that
that matters when we come to die.'

Is she in bed ?' asked Marjory, hoping to
check this flow of words.

*Well, no. Yesterday she was faint-like all
the day, and scarcely stirred or spoke ; but since
morning she has been restless, and nothing will
do but she must get up and sit by the fire.
Dr. Ainslie says we may just humour her  it is
only a flicker-like before the candle goes out.
But for restlessness, she won't suffer, he says ;
which is a blessing, poor soul ! for she has had
her share of Adam's pain, if any woman ever had.*

Will you let me go to her, please ?' returned
Marjory, with the touch of hauteur she knew so
Avell how to assume.

Miss Atkinson wiped her eyes, and led the
way up the narrow stairs, and ushered her
into the small but spotlessly-clean room, with
the evening sunshine streaming through the
lattice-window on a red earthenware bowl full
of wild flowers  pink and white briar roses and
bunches of meadow-sweet.

Marjory felt a sudden shock of pity and
repugnance as she caught sight of the wasted
creature sitting pillowed-up in the chintz-covered
chair, in the same grey wrapper in
which she had seen her last ; but as Mrs. Chard
turned her haggard face towards her, and Marjory
saw the sunken, miserable eyes and
the pinched features, nothing but pity remained.


You see, I sent for you, dearie,' she said ina
weak voice, as Marjory took her hand. ' You
may leave us, Susan ; I want to talk to this
young lady. Now, sit down, Marjory ; for there
is that I must say to you, and little time remains
for me to say it in. You were hard with me
last time we met, but I am not blaming you for

that, for you had a deal to put up with and forgave
; but I won't be an encumbrance much
longer. In a few days 3'ou will have it your
own way, and then, perhaps, your thoughts of
rae will be less bitter.'

They are not bitter now,' returned Marjory
gently ; for even the old fretful voice aroused
her compassion, it had grown so thin and
weak ; and as for the poor shrunken face, she
would hardly have known it. How could she
feel resentment against this crushed and bruised
human being ? ' I am sorry, very sorry to see
you like this. How could you travel all these
miles ? Good heavens ! you might have died
on the way.'

No, dearie, no,' she replied faintly; 'the
breath could not leave my body while this longing
was upon me. The wish was too strong
upon me for that. A Whitecliffe neighbour was
going on to Glasgow and she travelled with mea
bit. When they told me I hadn't manj days
to live, I could not stay there to die, with the
sea roaring in my ears. I would be buried by
mother and father. It was nothing to me that
Ephraim was at Whitcclifte. If it had been
robert, now  but no, I thought I could rest best

next to mother. And then there was that longing
that seemed to parch me like thirst

What longing ?' asked Marjory, leaning forward;
for she could hardly hear the weak
tones.

Nay, Marjory, you must know, surely.
Isn't it to see my Lilies that I have dragged
my half-dead body all these miles ? You won't
be vexed with me, dearie ; for nothing will satisfy
a mother but her own child. You will bring
her to me to-night, will you not ? I must see
her sweet face again  so like m} Robert's  and
then I will gladly lie alongside of mother ; for
this world has been nought but a muddle tome.'


How am I to bring her ?' exclaimed Marjory,
in a frightened tone. * What am I to say
to her ?' And then she continued entreatingly,
 Will it not distress her to see you like this ?
Lilies is not strong, and she feels so deeply
about things. I wull stop with you, Mrs. Chard
I will do all I can to comfort you ; but Lilies !
and if you should betray yourself!'

A quick, irritable look came into the dim
eyes as Marjory said this. The obstinacy of
the weak creature showed itself as she pushed

VOL. III. 48

the girl from her with trembling, impotent
wrath.

You  you !' she panted.  When I want my
child  you who have hated me all your life !
Oh, I am not dying yet ! If you will not bring
her to me, I will crawl up there  if it be on
my hands and knees, and though I were to die
on the very threshold her dear feet have crossed!'
And then she broke into miserable sobs, and
put her hands together as though she where
praying. * Oh, you will not be so cruel, Marjory
! There, dearie, I did not mean to be
cross. All the papers are here '  touching her
bosom. ' When the breath has gone out of
me, you may take them, and then the power
will be in your own hands. I have made it upto
you as well as I could, Marjory ; and you
have been brought up a lady, and had the best
of educations, and people have made much of
you. I have only kept you out of your rights
until you were a fine young woman, with all
sour life before you, and mine  done  done !
But '  her voice becoming feeble again  ' you
will bring her, Marjory, if it is only for the
sake of your own mother who bore you T

Marjory covered her face at this appeal.

Yes,' she whispered at last, ' I will bring
her this very evening, if she will come with
me.'

Oh, she will come,' was the confident
answer ; ' she will come, my precious, if she
hears her old nurse Miriam is dying, and wants
to see her. Keep my mistress  keep Mrs.
Carr from me, if you can ; and now, Marjory,
you and me have talked enough. Ask Cousin
Susan to come to me, for I must have something
to keep the life in me till she comes. Go,
and don't be long ; for I am that restless, that
I feel 1 could fly through the window, for all I
have not the strength of a baby !'

And Marjory alarmed at the sudden greyness
that crossed her face, sought Miss Atkinson
without a moment's delay ; and then with a
troubled heart set out for Mavisbank.

482

iHEPiE was a general exclamation when
Marjory made her appearance in the
dining-room, still in her walking-dress,
and looking pale and disturbed ; she had prepared
her little speech beforehand, and now
rehearsed it without a pause.

'I am so sorry to be late, but I had a sudden
message to go down to Moreland's Cottages.
Mrs. Chard is there, with her cousin. Miss Atkinson
; she is very ill  dying. I do not think
she can last more than a day or two.'

Oh, Marjory !' exclaimed Lilies, with tears
in her eyes, while Mrs. Carr took the girl's
hand and pressed it. Hurrell and Barry were
regarding her with grave looks of commiseration.
A great lump rose in ]marjory's throat ;

she released her hand impatiently, and looked
from one to the other with a little defiance.
What was it to her that this woman lay dying ?
Had she not robbed her of her rightful inheritance,
and made her existence a living lie ?

Oh, you need not be sorry for me !' she said
proudly. ' It is Lilies that she is wanting to
see. I am nothing to her  there is no love
between us.'

My dear, my dear !' observed Mrs. Carr ina
shocked voice, while Hurrell looked uncomfortable,
and seemed inclined to shift his place ;
but Lilies came up to the excited girl, and put
her arms round her.

Mother, never mind what she says. Hurrell,
you do not understand. No one shall wrong
Marjory by a thought. She is not to blame if
she cannot love her mother. They have never
lived together ; of course there is no sympathy
between them. Poor Miriam ! of course she is
sorry for her ; but there are times when we
cannot bear pity,' finished Lilies, in her warmhearted
way.

You are right,' returned Marjory, in a
choked voice. ' I think if anyone pities me tonight
I shall go mad !' And again there were

compassionate glances exchanged. * It is Lilies
she wants to see,' she went on, forcing herself
to be calm. * " There is no time to be lost !"
that is what she keeps saying.'

*My darling, it will only upset you,' observed
Mrs. Carr anxiously. ' I will go myself 
Marjory shall take me. You will wait, my
dear, will you not, while I put on my bonnet ?
And Lilies, you must see that Marjory eats
something. Her hands are cold, in spite of the
warm evening  that is exhaustion from want of
food. Oh, I shall not be long.'

But Marjory took hold of her, with appealing
looks.

Oh, please let Lilies go!' she said quickly
We must not disappoint dying people ; and it
was Lilies for whom she asked. 'when she
knows that her old nurse Miriam is dying, she
will come and see me." Was not that what
she said ? Oh Sissie, you will not refuse to
come with me, will you ?'

Of course I must go, mother!' cried Lilies
impetuously * j Hurrcll ; you are not to
speak. What harm will it do me to see my old
nurse again ? Mother, please see to poor Marjory.
You are right  she must eat something.'

And without waiting for an answer, Lilies
ran out of the room, and returned in a moment
with a black lace shawl arranged as a mantilla
over her white dress.

Marjory was taking a little soup ; but she
pushed away her plate after a few mouthfuls.

It is no use  I cannot take food just now,'
she said rather irritably. ' Come, Sissie, I am
ready !'

In her overwrought, nervous state, any form
of kindness  any attention on her friends' part
seemed to bruise her sensibility. It vexed
her when Mr. Wentworth accompanied them, asa
matter of course, and still more when he
announced his intention of waiting for Lilies.
His few grave remarks were received by Marjory
with impassive coldness. Why should they
be kind to her, who was their worst enemy ?
In a few days she would have wrecked the
happiness of that simple household. No ; she
could not accept their kindness to-night.

Do not be long, dearest,' she could hear him
say, as Lilies passed him on the threshold.
You will find me walking up and down like a
sentinel until you come out.'

Marjory brushed by them both with a sudden

impatient movement. She went upstairs, leaving
Lilies to follow, and entered the sick-room.

She is coming; I have brought her,' she
said aloud ; and then, stooping over Mrs. Chard,
she almost hissed into her ear : ' Do not make
me repent it. Be careful. You do not know how
delicate and sensitive she is. For all our sakes,
say nothing to make her suspect the truth.
Leave that to me.'

You may trust me, dearie,' gasped the invalid
faintly. * Lift me up on my pillows, Marjory.
I am not so well to-night. Susan is fetching
the doctor.' And then she stopped, and a
sudden gleam came into the faded eyes, for
Lilies was in the room, and the mantilla had
fallen on her shoulders, leaving her fair hair
uncovered ; and what could be sweeter than her
look, as she came up to the sick woman's chair
and took her hand ?

My poor Miriam, you wanted to see me.
My mother would have come  but no, Marjory
would not bring her.'

No, no ; it was not the mistress I wanted 
it was your sweet face I must see before I deed.
You are not afraid to kiss your old nurse, are
you, my pretty ?' And as Lilies stooped

down and kissed her, the poor creature burst into
weak tears.

Oh, that was like heaven !' she sobbed.
How many years is it since you kissed me ?
Not since you were a little child, when you
would prattle for the hour together to your
mammie  that was what you called me then.
It is only my fancy, dear. You will humour your
poor nurse who is dying ; but if I could hear you
say *' mammie " once again !'

Do it to please her, Sissie,' implored Marjory,
touched to the heart by this little scene.

The mere presence of her child, the touch of
her soft warm hands, seemed to infuse new life
into the dying woman. Her eyes shone with
joy and tenderness as Lilies knelt beside her,
chafing the thin fingers, and looking at her with
those clear compassionate glances. She was so
accustomed to be loved that the affection of her old
nurse did not seem to surprise her. ' Everyone
Vv-as good to her,' thought Lilies, ' and why not
this poor Miriam ?'

You are not suffering, dear mammie T she
said quite naturally, speaking, as she thought, a
child's pet-name. * Why do you tremble so ?
Shall I put my arm round you to support you ?

Is there anything we can give her, Marjory ?
She looks so exhausted.'

But Marjory shook her head. She knew
Lias was giving her the only cordial that could
revive her.

It is like heaven !' sighed the invalid again ;
and as LiHas supported her, her hair rushed
softly against Mrs. Chard's face.

Marjory felt a strange contraction of heart as
she saw how the dying lips tried to touch it.

Kiss her once more, Sissie dear,' she said,
hardly knowing that she spoke, only the words
escaped her.

And Lilies, wondering a little, obeyed her.

But you must kiss her too, Marjory,' she
said, looking up rather tearfully ; * Miriam 
mammie I mean  we must not forget our poor
Marjory.'

A long shiver passed over the sick woman's
frame.

No; we will not forget her,' she murmured.
Let bygones be bygones, dearie ; and though
there is much to forgive, there is mercy in
heaven, and why not on earth ? Let me see you
beside her, my two darlings that you were 
Marjory and Sissie, Sissie and Marjory.'

Here her poor brain became confused, and she
went on incoherently :

My girl and hers. But Sissie has Robert's
eyes, and she has my long face ; but her hair
is shining gold like an angel's.'

Lilies !' cried Marjory, rising to her feet in
sudden alarm ; * you must not stop. She is
very ill  very. You must go down and find
Miss Atkinson.'

But Lilies refused.

She has gone for Dr. Ainslie. I cannot
leave you alone, Marjory. There is death in
her face. And oh, you poor woman ! what is
it you have to say to me ?'

But Marjory thrust herself between them, and
almost pushed her away.

Go down to Mr. Wentworth. He must tell
them to be quick  very quick. Lilies, sou
must not stay. She is wandering ; and there
are things that only I have a right to hear.'
Then, stooping down, she touched Mrs. Chard's
lips with her hand. ' For Lilies  oh, remember
it is for Lilies !' she said, trying to arrest the
poor creature's restless flow of words. But the
clouded brain refused to take in the full meaning
of Marjory's speech.

Yes, yes  you are right. She is roy baby ;
and we called her Lilies out of love to my young
mistress. Why do you come between us, Marjory
? One hair of her head is dearer to me
than your whole body.'

Lilies !' remonstrated Marjory, white with
fear ; ' you are only exciting her. See how her
poor mind is wandering ! Let me take your place,
and ask Mr. Went worth to bring the doctor.'

And Lilies, confused by the invalid's sudden
incoherence, and alarmed by her sunken looks and
laborious breathing, rose at once.

Good-bye, my poor Miriam !' she said,
stroking the cold face. But the feeble hands
held her fast.

She has Eobert's eyes,' she gasped ;  but
we will not tell her so. No, no, no, Marjory ; we
will do nought to harm her  you and me.
Cover me up, dearie, for I am cold, and the sea
seems in the room somehow;' and her voice
became weak and almost inaudible.

The next moment Marjory was left alone.
Lilies's emotional nature could no longer endure
the scene. Her face was pallid, and the tears
were streaming down her face as Hurrell came
towards her.

Oh, it was terrible !' she said, changing to his
arm. * She did not know what she was saying,
and she took me for Marjory. Poor Miriam !
she was thinking of her own child, not of me.
She wanted me to kiss her again and again.
She thought I was her baby. She was fond of
us both. She has been good to me all my life ;
but, of course, she must have taken me for
Marjory.'

This has been too much for you,' he
said very tenderly, making her lean on him ;
for she trembled from head to foot. * Your
mother was right. You ought not to have
come.'

We cannot refuse the dying,' she returned
gently.

And then he said no more  only waited
patiently until she had recovered herself.

As they stood there in the fading light, they
had no idea that at that moment a sorrowful
soul was passing. Lilies had hardly crossed
the threshold, before Marjory, to her horror, saw
that mysterious grey veil settling upon the worn
face  that veil wliich is never to be lifted in
this world ; and, with an instinctive lono:inof to
give comfort at that dread moment, she gathered

the dying woman's hand in hers, and repeated
softly those sacred words :

** Yea, though I walk through the valley of
the shadow of death, I will fear no evil : for
Thou art with me ; Thy rod and Thy staff
they comfort me." '

Was it fancy that a dim shadowy smile came
on the poor face ? Marjory would always have
it so. In her own mind she had no doubt that
the Divine Shepherd was carrying His bruised
and weary sheep most safely through that dark
valley. What if she had wandered into devious
ways, and had torn herself against the cruel
brambles, and fallen into many a pitfall ? Had
not the weak soul cried oft and bitterly for help
and deliverance ? Her sins were many ; but
who could doubt the mercy of the All-merciful
that He was taking His lost and sorely
troubled child home to rest ?

There were footsteps approaching  Dr.
Ainslie's and Miss Atkinson's  and at the
sound Marjory hastily drew from the dead
bosom the scaled packet that had lain there
night and day for the last week, and thrusting
it hurriedly into her dress, turned away from the
bed.

She was almost as pale as the corpse as she
answered the doctor's few inquiries.

I do not know. I have never seen anyone
die before,' she said, as he asked her if the poor
creature had passed without a struggle. * Her
mind seemed confused when Lilies was here.
She went back to the past, when we were little
children. I told Lilies to go, for she was
exciting her ; and then I saw the look on her
face. It frightened me, and I said a verse to
comfort her ; and then she smiled  oh, quite
happily, but so strangely ! and then '

Marjory shuddered and turned away. She
was young, and she had never seen death ;
and to be alone with it !  it was a new and
terrible experience. She could not speak
of it.

Dr. Ainslie took her arm and led her gently
from the room. Outside, the two lovers were
talking softly to each other under the waning
light. A star or two shone in the summer sky,
a faint crescent moon hung behind the trees.

Take them home,' he said, speaking to
Hurrell. * The poor woman up yonder is
dead. There is nothing more to be done for
her.'

Oh, Marjory, and I left you alone !' exclaimed
Lilies remorsefully.

Marjory tried to move her dry lips in answer,
but her voice seemed gone. She hardly knew
that Mr. Wentworth had come round to her
side, and had given her his arm, and that Lilies
walked beside them. Her limbs moved stiffly ;
a sort of stupor of insensibility seemed over her.
Death !  then this was death, and she had seen
it with her own eyes ; and wdiy was she repeating
that clause over and over to herself, * As we
forgive them that trespass against us'? Forgive
! Oh yes ; she had forgiven her now !

The shock has been too much for her,*
observed Hurrell, in a low voice. ' Oh, how I
wish your mother had gone !*

His words roused Marjory.

I cannot see her to-night,* she said a little
wildly, clutching Lilies's arm. * Let me goto
my room. I can see no one to-night.
Promise me that I shall see no one  no
one !'

You shall be as quiet as you like, dear,'
returned Lilies soothingly ; and the next
moment they had reached Mavisbank, and
Marjory, with a brief * Good-night,' had passed

quickly through the hall before Mrs. Carr's
voice could reach her.

Marjory was fleeing for refuge to her own
room, like some hunted creature that had got
a deadly hurt. The crisis of her life had
approached, and she knew it. The dead hand
had unsealed her lips ; the secret need no longer
be kept.

She locked her door, and then, throwing off
her hat  for a fever seemed upon her  she
lighted her candle and sat down by the open
window. In the dim twilight the dark foliage
of the Mavis Woods was plainly visible, like
a sombre screen shutting out the world ; but
the mysterious aspect outside failed to disturb
her.

She had broken the packet, and was reading,
devouring rather, the record of a woman's
duplicity. Clear and simple and sorrowful was
the statement  not one point omitted, not one
clue lost. The feeble mind that had dictated
every word had at least been sincere in its
repentance.

Only one paper was left unopened  an
envelope directed to Mrs. Carr, and under the
name was faintly scrawled, * To my deeply

VOL. III. 49

wronged mistress, from lier repentant servant,
Miriam Chard.'

Marjory folded them all together, and then
stood for a moment looking out into the eerie
darkness.

'Ah, you poor soul!' she murmured, ' sou
have left it to me  the bitter work of unravelling
this miserable plot ; but I forgive you  yes, as
there is a heaven above us both, I forgive you
fully and freely.'

"When she had said this, some of the intolerable
load seemed removed from her heart, and
she could think more calmly.

Yhen Lilies came to her door presently with
the sorely needed refreshments, she did not
refuse them, but thanked her in her old manner,
and sent her love to Mrs. Carr, and begged
that they would not trouble about her any more
to-night.

But you will go to bed when you have had
your supper T coaxed Lilies, a little uneasy at
the strained look in Marjory's eyes.

Yes, when I have written to Anne,' returned
Marjory quietly. ' I cannot sleep just yet.
Please do not stay, Lilies ; I shall be better left
to myself.'

And Lilies went away a little sorrowfully,
and told the others  that Marjory looked so
very, very unhappy, only she was not crying,
and did not seem able to bear a word.'

The food had arrived opportunely, for Marjory
had felt a sinking that seemed to rob her of all
strength. But when she had drunk the coffee,
and eaten a little, she was able to write her
letter. She concocted it carefully, and Anne,
when she read it, failed to detect any trace of
emotion in the writer. She thought Marjory
might have shown a little more feeling about
the poor creature.

It is all over, and I cannot pretend to
grieve,' wrote Marjory. ' Our unnatural relation
to each other forbids any show of sorrow on
my part. I feel more kindly to her than I have
ever done; she is sacred to me now;' and so on
through the calmly-worded letter.

She says nothing about coming home, you
see,' observed Anne, as she read it aloud to her
brother.

It had not reached her until the evening of
the day that made Katie Stallard Dr. Ainslie's
wife, and on the following morning Mrs. Chard
was to be buried.

492

It is a very long letter, and tells us everything
but the one thing I long most to know.'
Anne raised her face, and looked at Capel wistfully
 it had grown somewhat worn and delicate,
and there were anxious lines on the forehead.

She has written on the night it occurred,'
he returned quietly ; but his hand trembled
slightly as it touched the paper. ' Her mind is
full of that, and of nothing else. Do not look
so sad, Anne, my dear ; you will soon get your
child back.'

'But, Capel,' she said imploringly, and now
the tears came into her gentle eyes, * will you
not change your mind, now, about going away ?
Marjory may need you ; you cannot tell how

things will be, or if ' but here she paused,

for he was looking at her now with a terrible
sadness in his eyes.

I must go all the sooner that this has
occurred,' he answered quickly. * She will
come home  I know she will. And, Anne, you
may call me an old fool, anything you like  I
shall deserve any name  but I cannot stay to
see her. How could I go on living day after
day with her in the house, knowing there was
no hope for me T

No, dear, no !' she faltered ; * it would be
too hard for you. You could not bear such a
struggle. Forgive me, Capel, and I will try
not to be selfish over it any more ; but you are
my only brother !* and a tear rolled down her
face.

Poor Anne!' he said remorsefully; 'I give
you nothing but trouble. Shall I stay and thy
my best to bear it ? Will this please you,
you small woman ?'

He spoke with forced cheerfulness, but there
was no mistaking the expression of his haggard
face.

*Dear Capel, no,' she returned, drang her
eyes, and taking up her work again. ' I would
not keep you here for worlds ; it will do you
harm ; it would not be for your good. You shall
go ; I will not say another word to hinder you.
Only, Capel, try and feel better about it all, and
then you can come back to me again.'

I will promise that,' he replied gravely.
You are a good woman, Anne  a little saint !
There is not a man living who is fit to kiss the
hem of your garment ; men are such cowards,
my dear. They cannot stay at home and brood
over their worries ; it would drive them mad.

Take care of her for me, and both of you say
your innocent prayers and live in peace ; and
when I have grown wiser and stronger I
will come back to yoii, and never leave you

adam.

YOU WILL SPEAK OPENLY TO ME T

 z psychologist  that is, one versed
  in the nature and properties of the
soul  to anyone conversant with the
phenomena of the mind, there would have been
something pathetic and altogether pitiful in the
crude girlish workings of Marjory's thoughts that
night.

An * infant crying in the dark ' could not have
groped about with more helpless hands and
dim tear-stained eyes than Marjory, as, unaided
and alone, she sought to solve the problem
that lay before her.

Over and over she repeated to herself that
she had arrived at the crisis of her life. Her
painful secret need no longer be preserved ; truth
demanded a full and immediate revelation. No

one could keep her out of her rights  those
precious rights of a mother's and brother's love.
Why should she continue to live a falsehood ?
Why should she, Lilies Marjory Carr, be known
a moment longer as Marjory Deane, the blacksmith's
daughter ? And yet, as she told herself
all this, Marjory trembled and wept.

To her generous and affectionate nature there
was anguish in the thought that her happiness
must be built on the wreck of another's peace.
How would Lilies bear such a bitter trial ?
Would not her sensitive and delicate organization
shrink and wither under the shock ? * Oh,
I must be careful, or it will kill her !' thought
Marjory, feeling within herself a foretaste of
Lilies's agony.

Then there sprang up in the girl's mind one
of those quick impulsive inspirations that were
natural to her. She would not break her news
suddenly. She would dress up the truth in the
semblance of fiction. She would concoct a little
story that should shadow forth reality ; and she
would tell it to them, her mother and Lilies, as
they sat together. She would plead her cause
m this way ; and then gradually, very gradually,
the truth should unfold itself. But first, there

was a question that she must put to Dr. Ainslie ;
and at this point she remembered that the next
day  for ah-lady the morning was breaking on
her vigil  would be his wedding-day. There
was no time to be lost. She would rise early,
and go to his house before she met the others at
breakfast. What was the loss of a little sleep ?
Nothing could make her ill, she thought, with a
mixture of self-scorn and pity. And so she
wove out her simple plot, never asking herself if
she would have strength to carry it out. Marjory
was making her third great mistake. Her
first error was when a dread of consequences
induced her to give that promise of secrecy
to Mrs. Chard. Her second was entering
her rightful home as a stranger ; and now her
pride and impulse were carrying her away. It
never entered her head to consult those true
friends who had watched over her life, and
who would have aided her in this emergency.
She shrank from the idea of asking Mr. Frere's
counsel. It was her own affair, she told herself.
No one should interfere between her and her
mother ; but in this her girlish sophistry led her
into grievous errors.

Poor impetuous misguided girl ! yet surely

representative of the young generation that are
wise in their own eyes, and, refusing ancestral
lamps, prefer their own paltry rush lights, carrying
them with youthful unguarded enthusiasm into
the damp murky vaults they seek to explore.
What wonder if they are blown out, and there is
the loud bitter cry of an Esau-like repentance.


The faint twittering of birds was plainly
audible from the Mavis Woods, and the first
streak of daylight was in the east, when Marjory,
after refreshing herself by ablutions and
change of dress, lay down for an hour or two,
until it was time to go to Dr. Ainslie. She slept
heavily, and only woke when Emma entered her
room.

The girl looked frightened when she saw Marjory
stretched outside the coverlet in her usual
morning dress.

 Oh, miss ! to think of your never having
been to bed !' she exclaimed, in a horrified
voice. ' And you dressed, and looking so
poorly too !'

But I am not ill,' returned Marjory, sitting
up and pushing back her heavy hair from her
hot face. * Have you brought me a cup of tea,

DD

Emma ? Thank you ! that was very thoughtful.
My head does ache a little ; but I shall drink
this and go out, and the cool air will do me good.
Please do not tell anyone that you found me like
this. If one cannot sleep, there seems no use in
going to bed.'

Very well, miss,' replied Emma doubtfully,
but her round good-tempered face wore an uneasy
expression. * She do look mortal bad, to be
sure,' she said to herself as she withdrew.
There's more than a headache that ails her 
I'll take my oath of that. But there, what is the
good of trying to find out other folks' worries ?'

Marjory was compelled to endorse Emma's
opinion when she caught sight of her pale face
and heavy eyes. ' Dr. Ainslie will think I am
ill too,' she thought. I must go up Cargill
and let the morning air freshen me up a little.
I never saw myself before with this leaden
complexion.' And accordingly, her strong will
compelled her aching limbs to climb up the
woodland paths to breezy Scarsgill ; and then
she sat down on a fragment of rock, and resolutely
keeping thought at bay, let the fresh
breezes blow over her face, until she felt she
dared brave the doctor's keen eyes.

She found him working in the little front
garden. It was one of his hardy habits to dig
and hoc his flower-borders and vegetable beds
before idle folk thought of stirring. It was
good for the muscles and brain, he always
said.

He gave a low whistle of surprise as Marjory
unlatched the gate.

You are out betimes, Miss Deane,' he said,
with a quick glance through his spectacles. ' Do
you want Maggie ? She is in the kitchen,
making the porridge for our breakfast. Maggie's
porridge beats Sarah's. No one makes porridge
like Maggie.'

No ; I want to speak to you a moment.
Dr. Ainslie. There is a question I must ask ;
but I have not come to see Margaret.'

Come to my study,' he returned, throwing
down his hoe and leading the way into the
house.

Margaret was singing a German hymn, in her
deep voice, as she moved across the red-tiled
floor, * Ein ceste Burg list under Got.' Marjory
caught her breath for a moment as she
listened.

Well,' observed Dr. Ainslie kindly, as he

placed a chair for her, * what is this question
r

His professional eye had noted at once the
girl's paleness and harassed looks. He thought
she had come to consult him about herself,
but her next words undeceived him.

Dr. Ainslie, you will think it very strange 
will you not ?  but I want to speak to you
about Lilies  Miss Carr, I mean. I am not
quite easy about her health.'

Indeed !'

Dr. x\inslie's manner changed in a moment.
He seemed on his guard, and entrenched in professional
reserve. Marjory understood at once
that her errand surprised him, and that he was
not prepared to talk over his patients Avitli a
stranger.

All this was patent to Marjory, though
he only uttered that dry ' Indeed !'  but his
lifted eyebrows spoke volumes.

You must not think me impertinent, or
interfering in other people's business,' faltered
Marjory, with an appealing look. * If I had nota
very good reason for speaking to you on such a
subject, I should hardly Venture to question
you. Dr. Ainslie, may I be frank with you 

that is  I mean '  hesitating over her words  
will my confidence be safe with you ?'

My dear young lady, I hope so,' in a half-affronted
tone. * Doctors are almost confessors
in their own way

Oh, you must not be offended with me !' she
pleaded in an innocent, childish manner that
touched him. * If you knew how unhappily I
am placed, you would do all you can to help
me. I will tell you what I can, but that is not
much. I am not speaking as a stranger. I
love Lilies, and I would do anything I could to
save her pain  that is, almost anything,' interrupting
herself.

Well, well,' he returned a little impatiently,
 what is it you want to know ?'

It is just this,' speaking in a trembling
voice. * There is something I have heard 
that I know  some bad news  that is, that she
will consider it bad news  which will, I am
afraid, give her a severe shock. No one knows
it but myself and  and  the woman who is
dead.'

Do you mean the woman who died last night
  Mrs. Chard ?' he asked, looking at her keenly.
Indeed, he may be pardoned if a strong feeling

of curiosity impelled him to ask this question.


Marjory bowed her head in assent.

And it is bad news ?' he continued.

'Very bad news to Lilies. Oh, I cannot tell
you what it is ! I must not  I dare not ; but
it will make her so unhappy. Oh, I am afraid
it will almost break her heart !' and here Marjory's
lips grew white and dry as she spoke.

Is it in your power to withhold this news 
I mean, would it be ri<2ht to do so ?' watching]:
her intently.

I suppose it would be in my power not to
speak,' she replied, after a moment.

But would it be right to do so ?' he persisted.


I cannot answer that question,' she returned,
with a painful flush. ' How do I know what is
right and wrong until you answer me ? Dare I
venture to speak, under Lilies's present condition
of health ? She is not strong. Once or twice
she has alarmed me.'

No, she is not strong,' he answered slowly.
I spoke to her mother the other day. I gave
her a hint, but I dared not speak openly.
Those two seem bound up in each other.'

But you \vill speak openly to me T she
pleaded, ' Think of the harm I might do if
I were not cautious

It will be needful for you to be cautious,'
he returned significantly. * She is very emotional
 very He seemed deliberating with
himself, for after a minute or two he continued
very slowly : * Perhaps, after all, it might be a
dangerous experiment. If it be in your power
to keep silence. Miss Deane, and if it would not
be wrong to do so, I would almost advise that
course.'

Marjory shivered.

I must think it over. I cannot promise todo
that. Indeed, I fear the truth must be
told ; but I will be careful. I will not speak
suddenly. I will open her eyes by degrees 

I '

Miss Deane,' he said suddenly,  I wish 3'ou
would confide in me. Your manner alarms me.
Indeed, I must warn you  Miss Carr has heart
disease.'

Do you mean that any shock would be
dangerous T

There would be always risk,' he returned
evasively. * If they take care of her  if she is

saved too much worry, she may live as long as
any of us. One can never judge in this sort
of case ; so much rests with the patient. Miss
Carr is emotional, excitable ; her spirits wear
out her strength. I thought it right to warn
her mother, and I told her Hurrell ought to
have a hint given him. But there ! women
are such difficult subjects. Mrs. Carr only
cried, and begged he might not be told ; he
knew already Lilies was delicate, and it would
make him so unhappy.'

Did you tell Mrs. Carr that Lilies had heart
disease T asked Marjory, regarding him with
fixed, anxious eyes.

Not in so many words. Better not  better
not. What is the use of making people's lives
a burthen to them ? I said her heart was weak
that any form of excitement was bad for her ;
that was enough to say. In organic disease like
that there is nothing that can be done. Why,
she may outlive us both. But what beats me,'
dropping his voice, ' is the fact of Mrs. Carr
having two such sickly children. Of course,
Philip Carr was not a strong man ; but it is
hard neither of them take after their mother.'

The same dark uncomfortable flush passed
VOL. III. 50

over Marjory's face. She rose hastily, afraid
lest the doctor's keen eyes shoukl read her
thoughts.

Thank you. I know now that I am to be
very, very careful. It shall be broken gently to
Lilies. Oh, I will be very tender and careful
with her ! '

And then she held out her hand to the
doctor, and said something about Margaret 
that she sent her love, and could not wait to
speak to her.

 Thank you,' she said again. ' You have
spoken plainly to me, and I think it was right
to do so. I wish I could have been as frank on
my side, but it was not possible.'

Everything is possible,' he answered, in
some perplexity.

He was troubled within himself what all this
might mean. What had this young stranger todo
with the Carr household ? How was it that
she was possessed of some painful secret connected
with them ? It was impossible not to be
impressed with her earnestness and restrained
agitation. The good doctor shook his head,
sorely puzzled, as he watched her go down the
garden-path.

As for Marjory, an absolute blankness of
thought seemed to possess her  an utter negation
of idea, like the painlessness that sometimes
occurs in a mortal hurt. A dull terror,
that was almost despair, was creeping over
her ; but, with her strong will, she refused
even to glance at the dark forebodings that
seemed taking shape within her. She would be
very careful, she told herself  very, very careful.
She knew now what it was she had to fear.
She would go over it point by point, patiently
and minutely, before she hazarded the first step.
A day or two's delay would not matter ; that
poor woman must be laid in her grave, and
then But here Marjory could look no farther,
for a numb, paralyzing force seemed to
keep all anticipatory thought at bay.

Yer' little was said to Marjory during breakfast.
Mrs. Carr was shocked and pained by the
girl's immobility and changed looks. She and
Lilies exchanged glances full of commiseration
and pity  no one could accuse Marjory of want
of feeling now.

Mrs. Carr left the girls together for the greater
part of the morning, but there was little conversation
between them. Marjory took a book and

502

ensconced herself in the bay-window, but she
did not once turn a page. Lilies, who had
letters to write, came to her side once or twice
with a caressing word or two ; but Marjory
hardly responded, and Lilies had gone back to
her occupation.

Presently Mrs. Carr returned and sat down
by Marjory. Her fine face looked a little
saddened.

My dear,* she said, in her usual kind voice,
I hope that you do not think that I have left
you alone too long. There were arrangements
to make, and Miss Atkinson was glad of my
assistance. It seems that poor Miriam had left
full instructions with her cousin. She is to be
buried as near her parents as possible, and her
great wish is that you and my Lilies should
follow her.'

Marjory made no answer.

*We think,' continued Mrs. Carr gently, That
it will be as well to get it over as soon as possible
; Dr. Ainslie advises it strongly, so we
have fixed the funeral for the day after tomorrow.
I do not know what we are to do
about your mourning, Marjory. If you had a
black dress, perhaps you might manage for the

present ' But here she stopped ; for a hard,

sullen expression had come to the gh'l's face.

I shall not wear mourning,' she said
abruptly.

My dear!'

I will not be guilty of such hypocrisy !'  in
an angry voice. * Why should I pretend to
grieve, when I have no such feeling in my
heart ? No, do not let us talk of this,' as Mrs.
Carr seemed inclined to argue the point with
her ; * not now  not for a day or two. I
have a black dress ; I will wear that for the
funeral. I do not wish to be unseemly or show
bad taste, but no one shall force me to put on
mourning for her. She wronged me  she did
me harm  but I hope I forgive her.' And
here Marjory started up in strong agitation, and
left the room ; and for the rest of the day she
hardly opened her lip s.

FOR Lilies

>T was a hot, breathless June evening.
All day long there had been an oppression
and weight in the air, as of an
impending storm. A margin of low, sullen-looking
clouds fringed the horizon ; in the Mavis
Woods the birds were chirping restlessly in their
nests ; not the faintest breeze agitated the leaves
they hung motionless, waiting till the master-hand
should play a windy symphony over
them.

Mrs. Carr had tempted the two girls to an
evening stroll. Barry, who always suffered
much from the heat, had retired to his ovn room,
complaining of neuralgic pains in his back and
head ; the suppressed electricity in the air made
him nervous and irritable. Lilies, too, looked

a little languid and depressed ; the sad ceremony
of the morning  for Mrs. Chard had been buried
that day  had excited and tired her ; her sympathy
and pity had caused her to shed tears.
But even the few stragglers in the churchyard
had noticed the hard, stern look on Marjory's
face, as she stood with downcast eyes by Lilies's
side.

In spite of her kind heart, Mrs. Carr felt herself
a little repelled and baffled by Marjory's
strange manner. For the last two days she had
eaten little, and had hardly spoken ; she had
moved among them with dry eyes, like one in a
dream. That very morning, a letter had come
from Muriel's End, and she had put it in her
pocket unread. Once during the day she had
reminded her of it.

Yes, I know ; it is from Anne. I will read
it by-and-by,' she had said, almost indifferently ;
and there it still lay untouched in her pocket.

You will come out with us, will you not T
Mrs. Carr had said, but she hardly expected
that Marjory would be inclined to accompany
them ; but, to her surprise, she at once
agreed.

She still wore her black dress ; but half

absently, she took up a crimson silk handkerchief
and tied it over her dark hair. Black did not suit
Marjory, but the sudden relief of bright colour
set her off to the best advantage. Mrs. Carr
wondered at the bad taste, but held her peace ;
as for Marjory, she was perfectly unconscious of
what she had done.

Lilies had led the way to her favourite seat ;
and Marjory, who had never visited that spot
since the day Mr. Frere had spoken to her, felt a
new pang at the sight of it. If only he were
here to help her now, she thought, with a sudden
yearning for that kindly face ; and for the first
time that day a mist gathered in her eyes.

Mrs. Carr and Lilies did not notice her
softened expression. They were talking to each
other ; they both started when Marjory struck
into their conversation. Lilies was speaking of a
book she and Mrs. Carr had been reading. It
had interested them greatly ; and there was a
character in it of a girl that Lilies declared might
have been meant for Margaret.

I know the book,' observed Marjory, trying
to speak in her natural voice ; * but it is not by
a good author. The end is tame and spiritless,
compared to the beginning. Many of these

stories are. It gives one the impression that
the author has got tired of his or her work.'

Perhaps they have left off building for want
of materials suggested Lilies, * like Mr.
Andrews with those shabby cottages at the foot
of Scarsgill ; they always seem to want more
finish.'

I don't know about that,' returned Marjory.
Now and then I have read a book that reminds
me of some half-finished tenement with the
scaffolding still up, just as though a sudden frost
had hindered the workmen. There was a book

that I read some time ago ' and then she

stopped, for there was a strange lump in her
throat that seemed to choke her.

Yes, dear,' observed Lilies, in an interested
voice, for she was pleased to hear Marjory
talking in her old fashion, though to be sure her
voice was a little husky.

I think the author must have had a touch of
frost too, or she must have been too tired to goon,
for I know there was a dreadful muddle at
the end. It seemed to be left to the readers to
conjecture things as they liked.'

What was its name, Marjoiy ?'

Oh, I cannot remember that !' she answered,

with an anxious catch of her breath ; but they
neither of them noticed how pale she had
suddenly become.  It was some time ago that
I read it. It was true  that is, the facts had
really happened, and the author had woven
them into a three volume novel. The strangest
part to me, and what makes the terrible interest
of the book, is that it is all true.'

Why, Marjory, you speak as though it were
a dreadful story !'

 No ; I do not mean that ; there were
no murders or horrible things of that kind ! It
was only so very sad, and all the sadder because it
was true, and the people really lived  indeed, are
still living.'

My dear, how could you know this ?'

Because the author is a friend of mine.
But I cannot tell you the name ! Oh no ; that
is how I know the characters are still living, and
that it is all true and really happened ; and it
was called " Some one's Mistake" or 'atonement"
 but it does not matter about the title !'

Oh, but it does, you tiresome child !' returned
Lilies, in her old merry voice. ' You
have made me curious, and now I want to read
it for myself. You must remember the name,

Marjory, or how am I to order it from Muche's?
*' Some one's Mistake," or "Atonement." It
will be dreadfully vague !'

But it is out of print,' stammered Marjory.
Perhaps you could not get it. And after all,
it is very sad ; and the people are living now,
and they cannot all be happy. I will tell you a
little about it, and then you will judge for yourself.'
And then she began very slowly and
hesitatingly her own story.

It seemed to Marjory as though she were
speaking in a dream. Her own voice sounded
metallic and unreal, and yet she was never so
intensely alive to outward impression. She
did not lose an expression on Lilies's face.

Hurrell's bench could only hold two people
comfortably, so Lilies had spread a rug on the
grass and sat at their feet, with her head resting
against Mrs. Carr and her face turned to Marjory.
As the story proceeded, she drew down
Mrs. Carr's hands and laid her cheek against
them, and presently a tear wetted them.

Why, Lilies, you are crying ! How absurd,
when it is only a story !' observed Mrs. Carr
presently.

But, mother, it is true. Don't you remember

Marjory told us so ? The people are
living to whom this dreadful thing happened.
Oh, how sad it is ! Marjory, I can hardly
bear to hear you ; there is something in
your voice that makes me cry. Oh, that poor
girl !'

 Which girl are you pitying ?' demanded
Marjory huskily ; ' the one who has been kept
out of her rights all these years, or the one who
innocently supplanted her T

I do not know,' faltered Lilies ; * it was
dreadful for the real daughter, of course. But
then you remember, Marjory, that the other one
Lena, you call her, but I suppose that was not
really her name  actually believed that she was
living with her own mother, and that she
idolized her ;' and here she kissed the hand she
held.

Mrs. Carr smiled, for she knew what
inference Lilies had drawn.

Yes, they simply idolized each other,' returned
Marjory, in a strained voice. * They had
grown to each other all these years, until no
flesh and blood relationship could be dearer. It
seemed to the mother  at least the author told
me so  that they thought alike, felt alike, and

knew no happiness apart. It was a sort of
elective affinity that dominated and superseded
nature, for,' finished Marjory, with a break in
her voice, * there seemed no instinctive drawing
of the mother's heart to her own child.'

How very strange !' observed Mrs. Carr ;
and yet I do not know why I should say that.
Of course, the mother and child were strangers;
she had no presentiment of the truth.'

But when it was told her '?' asked Marjory,
without raising her eyes to the calm beautiful
face beside her.

*I do not know what any woman could do under
such circumstances,' returned Mrs. Carr, in rather
a troubled voice, for the suppressed passion in
Marjory's low tones affected her as well as
Lilies. ' I think it would almost break her
heart to know that she had lavished all that
love on another woman's child, and that in
spite of herself the knowledge had come too
late.'

Do ycu mean that her heart would be closed
to her own child ? Oh no  impossible !' Marjory
spoke as though the words were choking
her.

Not by her own will,' returned Mrs. Carr,

with a sigh. ' If she were a good v.omaii, she
woukl try to satisfy them both ; but I think her
heart  any mother's heart  must break over
such an impossible task. Her own child would
appear to her in the light of an interloper.
She could not thrust away her adopted child,
who had been her ewe lamb, and had lain so
many years in her bosom. And it really
happened, Marjory, and that poor woman is
still alive? One must have thought that the
pain and the worry would have fretted her into
her grave long ago.'

And you, Lilies ?' asked Marjory hoarsely ;
what would you have done in Lena's place 
the girl who was not the real daughter, you
know ?' but as she asked the question, Lilies
raised herself to her knees, and cast her arms
about her mother. She was trembling allover.


Oh, mother, mother ! can such things ever
happen ? How can they live through them ?
If I had been Lena, I should have died ; I
could not have lived a minute. What, lose my
mother ! Ask Marjory not to go on  her voice
frightens me ; and oh, the storm !' for here the
first low peal of thunder seemed to roll and vibrate

in the distance, and the oppression became still
more intense and breathless.

Come, dearest, or the storm will be upon us
before we reach the house !' exclaimed Mrs. Carr
anxiously.

Lilies was often hysterical at the approach of
a storm, and there was some excuse that, in her
desire to shield her child from nervous terror,
she forgot the other girl, who was still sitting
motionless in her place.

As the two figures hurried across the narrow
dell, Marjory put up her hand to her throat.
Were her senses leaving her ? or why was she
obliged to stifle the hoarse scream that seemed
as if it must find vent ? The next moment she
wanted to break into loud laughter ; how that
bitter merriment would have scared the women
who were hurrying through the wood, hand-in-hand
! But she overcame that awful lonoinf,
holding herself by main force in her seat,
while cold perspiration bedewed her forehead,
and she shook as though in an ague fit.

Over her head the clouds were gathering more
darkly : the sullen muttering of the thunder
broke at intervals in her ears. "Was Marjory
quite cognizant of her own actions, when her

cold hands drew from the folds of her
dress the documents that were to prove her
identity ? Was there any conscious meaning in
the reckless thought that prompted her to open
the letter that Miriam Chard had written to her
wronged mistress, with the intention of reading
it before tearing it into a thousand pieces ?
Marjory was never able to answer that question,
nor could others answer it for her.

She remembered vaguely that she stared at
the opening words :  My beloved and deeply-wronged
mistress, what you are about to read is
the confession of a dying woman. May Heaven
forgive the lifelong deceit that I have practised
on you ! Lilies is my child, not yours.'

'Ha, ha!' laughed Marjory, at this point, as the
blue lightning danced before her ejes. ' God,
am I going mad ?' exclaimed the miserable girl.
Eut at that moment, when her brain felt reeling,
she saw a small dark object lying on the grass.
As she stooped instinctively to pick it up, the
sheet of paper she had been reading fluttered
from her lap, under the seat ; she had torn it
across, the fragments still adhered together
but the envelope and the rest of the papers
were in her hand.

It proved to be a small book  a worn copy of
the Greek Testament. A singular revulsion
passed over Marjory as she touched it. That
little shabby book was familiar to her. It belonged
to Mr. Frere. How often had she seen
him read it ! It was his constant companion,
she knew. In another moment the strangled
hysteric convulsion in the throat seemed to leave
her ; the mad desire to laugh changed into passionate
sobs. A flood of tears relieved the
tension of the brain. Clasping the shabby
little book as though it were a warm human
hand, Marjory wept the bitterest tears she had
ever shed in her life.

They did their healing work effectually. Her
power of thought returned. Her first action, asher
sobs subsided, was to restore the papers to
their hiding-place in her bosom. She had replaced
the envelope, but the torn paper had
escaped her recollection.

Better destroy nothing,' she muttered.
Who can tell what may happen ?'

There was no conflict now, after this outburst
of passionate despair. If Marjory's conscience
spoke, she refused to listen to it.

A lie will cost less than murder,' she said

VOL. III. 51

aloud. * Of the two sins I will choose the
least. May God forgive me if it be a sin, but I
cannot with my own hands kill Lilies !'

A dull repetition of words seemed to surge in
her ears and blend with the storm. She seemed
listening to them, and not to the thunder, as she
sat still, with the lightning playing harmlessly
around her :

She would try to satisfy them both ; but I
think any mother's heart would break over such
an impossible task. Her own child would
appear to her in the light of an interloper. '

And again, in a younger voice :

 If I had been Lena, I should have died. I
could not have lived a minute. What ! lose
my mother !'

And Lilies had heart disease, and was
excitable, and she had promised Dr. Ainslie
to be careful.

Her thoughts were clearing rapidly now.
Her mind was taking a quick bird-flight over
past and present and future.

For Lilies,' she was saying to herself; * yes,
and for my mother, too. Mother  my own
mother, I must leave you ! Fate is too hard for
us. You shall not break your heart over an

impossible task for me. If I killed Lilies  and
the news would kill her  you would never love
me. You would look upon me as worse than an
interloper ; you would never regard me without
a shudder. Better your calm kindness than
that ; better any loss and misery to myself.
The secret is my own. No one but myself hasa
right to meddle with it. If I choose to lay
aside my birthright and go back to my friends,
what is that to anyone ?'

The hard look of misery in her eyes began to
change into a great softness.

He will be good to me, he will comfort me.
I shall be quite safe with him ;' and she pressed
the little book between her palms. * I will tell
him that I am unhappy, and ask him to take
care of me ; and perhaps the pain will grow less
by-and-by. He must not know the truth for a
long time ; there will be no need to tell it. Oh,
I must go back to him soon ! I cannot stay
here any longer.'

The thought of her friend was calming her
more and more. As the recollection of his tenderness
became more vivid, she suddenly started
from her seat. The rain was falling in torrents,
but the trees had prevented it from wetting her.

512

What would he say if he saw her sitting, at the
peril of her life, in the midst of such a storm,
closed round by those dark woods ? Had she
any right to break his heart as well as her
own ? What would he and Anne do without
their darling torment ? At least, she was necessary
to them.

As these salutary thoughts returned, Marjory
moved quickly though the dell. At any other
moment in her life she would have been terrified
at the risk she ran. The storm was at its
height. The trees crackled and strained under
the fierce blast. Torn branches blocked up the
narrow path. The zigzag lightning lit up the
dim arcades with phosphorescent brilliancy ;
the artillery of heaven reverberated between the
hills.

But as Marjory hurried along she was hardly
conscious of the tumult. A single thought had
taken possession of her, and seemed to vibrate
within her still more loudly.

'ForLilias!'  that was all it said. * What
matters anything that happens to me ? Oh no ;
it is all for Lilies !'

THE LETTER OVERLOOKED.

AEJOEY hoped to gain her room
unperceived. In crossing the open
lawn to the house the heavy torrents
of rain had thoroughly soaked her thin black
gown. The gay little handkerchief she had tied
over her head was now nothing but a flimsy
rag, and her hair was streaming with wet. She
tried the door of the conservatory, and found it
unlocked ; but as she ran up the staircase she
encountered her faithful little handmaid, Emma.
The girl's rosy face looked quite pale with concern.


Oh, miss !' she exclaimed, as she caught
sight of Marjory's wean, draggled appearance,
you have given us all such a fright ! Mistress
has sent Fleming to look for you. We thought

you vere safe in your own room until a quarter
of an hour ago, when they sent me up to tell
you Fleming had brought in the coffee. Oh
dear ! oh dear ! do you mean you have been in
the wood in this awful storm ? I must go down
and tell mistress and Miss Lilies ; they are so
anxious about you

Wait a minute, please,' returned Marjory, in
an exhausted voice. ' I think you must help me
to get off my wet things first.'

She said this not so much with a view to her
own comfort, for she felt strangely careless
about that ; but in detaining Emma she would
put off answering her friends' inquiries.

Yes, indeed, miss ; and if you will take my
advice, you will just go to bed, for you are
shivering with the dampness and the fright.
Why, the water is running from your hair, and
your shoes and stockings must be soaking !'

Very well,' replied Marjory indifferently.

It was easier to carry out Emma's suggestion
than to face those two with any pretence
of cheerfulness. She let Emma brush out
her damp hair and plait it afresh, and heard
her praise its luxuriant growth, in a sort of
dream :

For it touches the ground as you sit, miss ;
and it is as thick as thick can be. Miss Lias's
is nothing to it ; and  is it not strange ?  it just
matches mistress's in colour ; and my mother
always says that sort of hair is very uncommon.
There, you are shivering again! You must just
be quick into bed, and I will run down and
bring you some hot coffee

But it was not Emma who brought the coffee
after all. Marjory, who was lying with her eyes
fixed on the driving rain, felt a slow shiver creep
over her as the low, musical voice she knew so
well accosted her.

Oh, my dear !' exclaimed Mrs. Carr anxiously,
*how you have frightened us! I was so absorbed
with Lilies  for you know a storm often makes
her hysterical  that I never noticed that you
were not following us to the house. What possessed
you, my child, to endanger your life by
stopping out in the wood T

A storm never frightens me, and the rain
has only just come on,' returned Marjory.

She spoke in a curious inward voice, as
though strength had suddenly failed her; and
indeed her senses seemed blunted and numb.
As Mrs. Carr offered her the coffee, her hand

trembled so much that Mrs. Carr held the cup to
her lips.

You are quite faint, Marjory she said tenderly.
' When you have drunk this, you must
lie quiet and go to sleep.'

But at her words a frightened look came over
the girl's face. How was she to lie there,
listening to the rain, and the moaning of the
rising wind in the trees, and not go mad ?

Do not leave me !  surely you will not leave
me ?' she said feebly, as though remonstrating
against some act of cruelty, and her hand fastened
on Mrs. Carr's gown. It was a soft grey satin,
for Mrs. Carr never wore anything but the richest
materials. As Marjory's hot fingers seemed to
cling to it with a child's persistence, Mrs. Carr
kissed her forehead soothingly.

My dear, of course I will stay with you if
you need me ; but are you sure that you are
not ill, Marjory ?  that you have not caught
cold ? You look feverish, and yet your lips are
pale. What would your friend say to such
carelessness ? I cannot bear to think of your
imprudence. Fleming has just told me that the
old oak at the foot of Scarsgill has been struck
by lightning.'

The unhappy do not die young she replied,
with a smile so sad that Mrs. Carr felt touched.
*But I ought not to be selfish rousing herself.
If Lilies wants you, you must go to her.'

I need not go yet returned Mrs. Carr, who
had placed herself close to Marjory, and had
taken the girl's hand in hers ; * she is reading to
Barry now  that will amuse them both. She
was a little hysterical when we got back to the
house. I think that story upset her, Marjory ;
it was so sad, I could not get it out of my own
head. I am afraid it will haunt me, though I
am not generally fanciful. If you are not too
tired, dear, I wish you would tell me how it
ended

Marjory shuddered involuntarily, and turned
on her pillow until her face was hidden against
Mrs. Carr's shoulder.

*The end was the worst of all,* she whispered,
in so low a voice that Mrs. Carr had to stoop
over her to hear it.  When she  the real
daughter  knew how things were between those
two, and that her mother could not love her,
and did not want her, and that the knowledge
of the truth would make all their lives miserable,
she determined to leave them in ignorance,

and <o away, though it broke her heart
to do it.'

 Oh, how dreadful, Marjory ! It does not
sound right, somehow. Poor girl, what a martyrdom
!'

She did it for the best,' in the same choked
voice.

It was a mistaken sacrifice, and yet it was
a noble one,' mused Mrs. Carr. * I ought to
read the story, and then perhaps I could judge
of it better. Please do not let Lilies talk about
it any more. I never like her to hear anything
sad. Ah, well ! this life would be a poor affair
if things were not put right in another world.
The mother would know her child then, Marjory,
and would bless her for the love which, though
mistaken, sought to save her pain.'

An inward sob shook the girl's slight frame.
Mrs. Carr felt rather than heard it, and put her
arm round her.

Do not talk any more now, darling ; I am
sure you are not well. Try and sleep, and I
will sit beside you as quiet as a mouse.'

Her motherly heart was full of solicitude for
this girl, Miriam's daughter, who seemed so unhappy.
As she put her arm round her. Marjory

seemed to nestle to her as naturally as
though she were Lilies. A complete exhaustion,
overpowering mind and body, had set in ; the
warmth, the coffee, the touch of those motherly
arms, seemed to soothe the inward agony. Before
long, a profound drowsiness weighed down her
eyelids, and in a little while she was asleep.

Mrs. Carr sat patiently beside her in the
fading, dim light, until she felt that she
might venture to free herself without rousing
Marjory; but she had some difficulty in loosing
the hold upon her dress. As she stood for a
moment beside the bed, an involuntary feeling
of admiration seemed to rivet her to the spot.
She is more than handsome  she is beautiful
she thought. Marjory's attitude as she lay had
the careless abandon and grace of a child ;
her face looked pale by contrast with the dark
brown plaits that curled about her pillow ; the
firm, rounded arms, the beautiful hands  all
arrested Mrs. Carr's attention.

She is too beautiful and too aristocratic for
Miriam's daughter,' she said to herself. ' How
can she have got those finely-formed hands from
either Robert or Miriam ? I noticed her foot,
too ; it is as small as mine, and has the same

arched instep. Lilies has not either a pretty
foot or hand. How strange it is ! In spite of
her paleness, Marjory looks the picture of health,

while my poor darling ' But here Mrs.

Carr sighed and turned away. She never cared
to own, even to herself, how fragile Lilies often
looked in her sleep.

Marjory slept profoundly until morning, nor
did she wake until Emma stood beside her, with
a letter in her hand. Marjory looked at it rather
languidly. There was an oppression and weight
upon her, but a full consciousness had not
returned. By-and-by she would realize her own
hopelessness, but just now physical weariness
was upon her.

She testified no curiosity about the letter,
though Emma held it up before her with rather
an important face.

You left it in the pocket of your black dress,
miss, and it has not even been read. It was
wet through, so I dried it as well as I could, and
I think you will be able to read it. It has the
Moorbridge post-mark.'

Yes, thank jou. I must have forgotten it
yesterday. You may leave it, Emma.' But
she was in no hurry to read it. She drank her

tea, and looked out at the grey dreariness of the
morning. The window was open, but a heavy
morning shower was splashing the creeper and
filling the ledges with little pools. * Another
wet day,' Marjory sighed bitterly, and opened
her letter.

But before she had read many lines a change
came over her face ; her eyes grew troubled ;
her hands shook. In another minute she had
sprung up, and commenced dressing herself with
feverish haste. * Would she be in time ?' she
asked herself almost wildly. Fool that she was,
not to have opened that letter yesterday ! It
was from Anne, and was written very hurriedly.

My darling Child,' Anne wrote,

I am afraid what I have to tell you will
give you pain. It is always hard for me to do that,
and especially as the news will reach you on the
very day your poor mother is to be buried. But
Capel would not let me write before ; he said what
was the use, when he had made up his mind ?
You know how peremptory he can be sometimes.
And then he never could bear you to be troubled.

Marjory, darling, Capel is leaving us. He
says that he has been idle long enough, and that

there is plenty of business for him in Japan.
He wants to help his friend settle his affairs.
You know how often he has threatened to go ;
but now he is in earnest. He says it is business
and the claims of friendship ; but, of course, I
know it is all his restlessness, and because some
strange trouble has overtaken him.

 But the trouble cannot be helped : my own
child, whom I love next in the world to Capel,
do not think I am blaming you  never  never !
How could such a thought come into my mind ?
Nothing can come between us two  nothing !

But all the same I am grieving about Capel. It
is hard that my only brother should leave me, and
for such a time. He says he will not promise
to come home for two years. He has always
wanted to write a book about Japan; and he
must study the country and the people thoroughly ;
and he says, over and over again, that wee two
will be quite comfortable and happy together 
as though we shall not miss him every hour of
the day.

It has all been settled in such a hurry that
my brain is in a whirl. I wanted to write
and ask you to come home, but Capel would
not listen to me. He said he hated good-byes.

except on paper. They only harassed people's
feelings, and did no good ; perhaps you may
agree with him, Marjory. But I hold a different
opinion. I think it is something to grasp a
person's hand and bid God bless him, even if it
be only a friend who is leaving us  but Capel !
Oh no ; he is wrong ! I am sure you will be
unhappy if you do not wish him good-bye. But
there is no time now for the day after you
receive this letter  the evening, I mean  indeed
it may be quite late in the evening, towards
night  Capel goes down to Southampton, for
they expect the Eurydice will start from the
docks the following day. I wanted to go with
him and see the vessel, but he will not allow me
even to do that. He says he would rather
see the last of me in the morning-room at
Muriel's End.

I shall be very lonely when he is gone ;
but I know you will soon come and cheer me
up. Forgive me if I do not write more now,
dear.

Your loving

Anne.'

And folded in this letter there was a slip of
paper in Mr. Frere's handwriting.

Do not be sorry about this, my dear child,'
it said. * Remember your sermon to me on the
East Hill, when you accused me of wasting my life.

Well, I have something to do worth doing,
so I mean to go over to Japan and do it
thoroughly. It is never too late to mend, is it,
Marjory ? Never too late, I humbly trust, to
gather up the ** fragments that remain."

I will write you plenty of long letters by-and-by,
when we have once steamed off; but
just now I am overwhelmed with business.

I am leaving you to Anne, a most sacred
charge ; take care of each other, my two blessings,
and be as happy as you can be. Remember
I love you so entirely and fully that I desire
nothing but your happiness in the completest sense.

I do not wish to bid you good-bye ; it is too
painful an ordeal for me. I said it to you in its
truest sense on that seat in the wood when I
renounced my madness; now I say nothing but
God bless you, Marjory !

Your friend until death and beyond death,

Capel Frere.'

She had read those words which were never
to fade out of her heart and memory again, and

then with nervous rapid fingers she had commenced
a hasty toilet. Before it was finished
she rang her bell.

Emma,' she said, in a voice the girl hardly-recognised,
it was so sharp and incisive with
pain, *you have done so much for me, you have
been so kind and helpful, that I venture to ask
one thing more. In two or three hours I must
start for London : will you pack as many of my
things as you can? the rest must follow me. Do
not question me, please. I have just had news.
I have nearly finished dressing. I will tell your
mistress myself.' And then she turned away,
and coiled up her magnificent plaits of hair with
hands that were cold and shaking.

A quarter of an hour later she entered the hall
in her brown tweed travelling-dress  her one
black gown was hopelessly ruined by the rain.

Mrs. Carr,' she said, speaking very quickly,
and there was not an atom of colour in her face,
you are so good, I know you will help me. I
must go to London by the mid-day train. Emma
is packing my things. Will you order the carriage,
please, to take me to St. Theobald's ? You may
read Anne's letter if you will ; it will tell you
why I must go.'

VOL. III. 52

Mrs. Cain was not the woman to waste words.
She read the letter quickly, and then she said in
her quiet way :

My dear, you shall go if you wish. I would
not be so cruel as to keep you. If you had only

opened this letter yesterday ' but here she

stopped, warned by the troubled look on Marjory's
face. * You shall go if you think it will
be any use, but, my child, you see what Miss
Frere says  her brother leaves for Southampton
to-night.'

I know,' answered Marjory a little wildly ;
you need not tell me. If I lose hope, if I think
there is any chance of my missing him, that he
will really go without my seeing him again after

all he has done for me ' but here she checked

herself, as though afraid of her own agitation.
God will help me not to be too late,' she
finished simply. ' I must ask Him, and leave all
that ;' and then Mrs. Carr kissed her, and said
that she should do as she thought best. She
would order the carriage and tell Lilies, and one
of the maids should be sent to help Emma.

And there is no hurry  no hurry at all,' she
continued kindly ; ' the carriage will not be round
lor an hour and a half. You must take your

breakfast, Marjory, and keep yourself quiet ; for
you have a long journey before you.'

Marjory's only answer was to push her plate
away, and lean her forehead on her clasped
hands. What where food and drink to her ? She
did not change her position, as quick footsteps
came lightly to her side, until Lilies touched her
and made her look up.

Come, Marjory dear,' she said, in her sweet
caressing way; ' mother has told me all about it.
We are both so dreadfully sorry. I am going
to the station with you. There is nothing I
will not do to help you if you will only pluck
up courage, and not lose heart. But first, I am
going to make you have some breakfast'.

Marjory wanted to say that food would choke
her, but Lilies contrived to have her own way.
She laid delicate fragments on Marjoram plate,
and coaxed and caressed her as though she were
a child ; and for very love and gratitude Marjory
submitted. In spite of herself, something like
hope crept into her chilled heart. She might
not be too late, after all. No, she said to herself;
God would be too merciful. She had
suffered so much ; she would surely not be
called upon to endure any further misery.

522

She looked up and smiled at Lilies as this
thought crossed her. It was a poor, pitiful
attempt at a smile, and made Lilies's eyes
misty. And then she said she would go to
Barry. She would not wait until the last
minute to bid him good-bye.

Mrs. Carr had prepared him, and he looked at
her a little wistfully as she entered.

'I am so sorry you are going, Marjory,' he
said, as she sat down beside him. * You have
been so awfully good to me, that I shall miss
you dreadfully. You must come and see us soon
aa-ain. In another month I am to take to
crutches, you know, and you and I will have
some walks together.'

I hope so,' she answered gently. ' You
must not forget me, Barry, and our long talks,
and the books we have read. I shall think of
you so much.'

And I of you,' answered the poor lad,
wondering a little at her tenderness. He
had never understood her sisterly patience
and forbearance, and had often marvelled
at it.

Marjory sat quietly for a few minutes, trying
to repress the sudden yearning to take the thin

hand and cover it with kisses  her brother's,
whom she dared not claim.

Good-bye !' she said at last, starting up a>
though she found her position intolerable.
God bless you, Barry ! That is better than
good-bye, is it not ?' And she turned away
so quickly that he could not see the tears in her
eyes.

An hour after that she was standing at the
door, and Mrs. Carr was holding her hand and
looking at her anxiously.

You will not telegraph to Miss Frere to
meet you in London, Marjory ? I think it
would be better.'

'No,' returned the girl decidedly; *I dare
not. He might go away all the quicker, because
he does not wish to bid me good-bye, and
then Anne would be deprived of her last evening
with him. Do not be anxious about me. I
know all about the trains. There is one to
Moorbridge at half-past eight, and I shall catch
it. Please give my messages to Mr. Wentworth
and Margaret.'

Yes, dear child ; I will not forget.'

And,' went on Marjory, looking in the
beautiful face so near hers, ' there is much

  much I want to say, but I have do words.
Think of me  love me a little '

And then her courage failed her. She threw
tier arms round Mrs. Carr's neck, and for one
passionate minute those strong young arms held
her fast, as though they would never let her go.
Then, with a sob that nearly broke her heart,
she sprang away ; and when Lilies followed her
into the carriage, she found Marjory cowering
on the cushions, with her face hidden in her
hands.

Dear Marjory, mother is kissing her hand
to you, and there is Barry by the window.'

Marjory shook her head. She dared not
show them her pale face streaming with tears.
She was leaving her rightful home, the mother
and brother whom she loved  perhaps for ever.
The iron had entered too deeply into her soul
for her to look up.

Lilies, with great tact and delicacy, left her
to her own thoughts during the long drive.
Now and then her hand stole into Marjory's, ora
mute caress testified her sympathy. It was
not until they had reached the station, and
Marjory and she were standing together on
the platform, that Marjory opened her lips.

You will write to me very often, Lilies T

Yes, dear.'

And you will tell me all the Mavisbank
news, and when the wedding is to be ?'

Yes,' she answered again, blushing a little ;
I will tell you everything

Oh, there is the train ! We had not long to
wait after all. Good-bye, Sissie darling ! You
had better kiss me now.'

They kissed each other a little sadly and
solemnly, and there were tears in Lilies's eyes.
As Marjory took her seat in an empty compartment,
she looked out of the window. Lilies was
standing alone on the platform ; her grey gown
was blowing a little about her feet, and her fair
hair was gleaming like pale gold in the windy
light.

Good-be, Marjory,' she said. ' Do not lose
hope, my darling.'

The words seemed to float after her as they
moved away from the platform ; the sweet face,
with its speaking smile, seemed to follow Marjory
for many a mile.

Do not lose hope, my darling.'

And then the wind seemed to die away, and
there was the drip, drip of the rain against the

THE LETTER OVERLOOKED.

window-panes. But for a little while Marjory's
thoufjlits were confused, and she could do
nothing but gaze out at the misty hills and
flying stone walls, with a feeling of utter blankness
that would by-and-by wake into the activity
of pain.

HOPE DEFERRED.

T seemed to Marjory as though her
journey had lasted for days when she

i at length arrived at King's Cross, and
stood for a moment, half-dazed, looking at the
wet London pavements, and the watery sunshine
that seemed breaking behind the houses.
The train for Moorbridge was not due at Charing
Cross for a full hour and a half; nevertheless
she called a cab, and had herself driven to the
station ; and putting her luggage into the charge
of a porter, went in search of a cup of coffee,
and then seated herself wearily in a corner of
the large waiting-room, watching the strange
faces that passed and repassed in a sort of vacant
dream.

Marjory felt as though she had exhausted her

emotions  as though she were capable of no
farther effort. But it was only the collapse of
fatigue, and want of food ; the coffee soon
revived her, and the old feverish excitement
returned.

If she should be too late !' that was her one
thought. Even the agony of her leave-taking,
and the knowledge that she was driven forth an
exile from her home, and from her mother's
heart, faded beside the longing  the almost
unendurable longing  to see her friend again.
Marjory never asked herself wdiat this craving
meant : she only knew that in losing Mr. Frere
she would lose everything ; that he was
necessary to her ; that she could not and would
not do without him ; that her love for Anne was
small and puny beside her reverence and affection
for him.

But not even to herself would she speak of
this ; she did not even question herself as to what
she should say to him when they met. * When
the time comes I shall know what to say,' she
thought ; ' but one thing I know, that I shall
pray him not to leave me  never to leave me
again.'

After this her thoughts became confused : all

sorts of misty recollections seemed to surge into
her mind. Now she was on the beach at White -
cliffs, with Mr. Frere beside her ; she could
hear the waves splashing to her feet in the
darkness, and could see the red glow of his
cigar as he rambled on in his whimsical way,
mingling philosophy and sentiment, while she
laughed at him in girlish fashion.

Then she was sitting with Mrs. Chard in the
little parlour, in the bright firelight ; outside
there were the lighted windows of the Crown,
the illuminated clock-tower, the tall gaunt masts
of the boats, and the dark sea-line. She could
hear Lilies singing  no, it was Hurrell, * All is
vanity, vanity ;' and there was the knocking of
his hammer, and the twittering of the birds in
the wood. 'For Lilies,' some one seemed to be
saying ; * For Lilies  for Lilies.'

It was just as they were steaming into King's
Cross, and Marjory had fallen into a brief doze,
lulled by the monotonous motion. For a little
while she felt weary and inert, almost numbed
into forgetfulness. But as her strength revived,
her restlessness returned in twofold force ; her
corner in the waiting-room became unbearable,
and she rose up a little giddily, and began to

pace the platform. Another half-hour to wait
before the Moorbridge train started.

Many people looked after her, as she walked
to and fro with swift uneven footsteps. The
tall pale girl, with the sad abstracted face,
attracted a good deal of attention ; there was
something so graceful and commanding in her
carriage, that even in a crowd she would have
been noticed. But Marjory was quite unaware
of the interest she excited  her dark eyes were
looking out straight before her, the careworn
handsome young face never changed its expression.
' If she should be too late !' this was
all she said to herself, over and over again ; and
sometimes Lilies's voice seemed to answer her
out of the summer stillness, ' Do not lose hope,
my darling.'

There was a sudden quickening of her pulses
as the train for Moorbridge came slowly to the
platform. As she took her place she felt that
now her journey would soon be over She even
hailed the fast-falling dusk that began to hide
the well-known landscape from her, for it told
her the longest day she had ever passed would
soon have an end. And yet this last hour
seemed harder to bear than the rest  her restlessness

became positive pain. She was alone in
the compartment, and could walk up and down
the narrow passage when she could no longer
sit still ; this was her only relief. She would
stand for a moment, lookin: out at the rising
moon, and the dim summer sky, and the flying
hedgerows, and then resume her walk again.

Moorbridge at last  for one brief minute
Marjory's eyes scanned the platform, but no
familiar face greeted her. Then she bade the
porter call a fly, and waited impatiently until
her luggage was placed on it.  Drive as fast
as you can to Murders End, on Woodleigh Down !'
she said quickly ; but there was something in
her voice that made the men look at her.

Poor Marjory ! that drive, short as it was,
tested her patience severely. The long steep
hill that led to the Down could not be climbed
very speedily by the poor jaded horse. Marjory
shut her eyes, and prayed that she might not be
too late ; and then opened them, and saw the
moonlight shining behind the limes and on the
red parties. And then the white shutters of
Muriel's End came in view ; but as the driver
was turning in at the gate, she stopped him.

I do not wish to startle them,' she said.

I Avill valk up to the house, and you may
follow me very slowly

But as she passed into the shrubbery, and
saw the lighted window of the morning-room,
her courage and strength seemed to fail her, and
her limbs trembled with excitement.

The front door was ajar, but she felt no
surprise. It was often so when Mr. Frere was
taking his evening prowl in the garden. It
struck her as a good omen, and a smile came to
her face. True, she could hear no voices; but
perhaps he was in the greenhouse, or pacing the
gravel paths behind the house. She stole into
the hall softly, and then tapped at the door of
the morning-room.

Anne's voice said  Come in!' and Marjory
stood on the threshold.

But the next moment she told herself that she
had known all along how it would be. She
knew it without a word, as Fluff rushed to her
feet with a joyous bark ; and Anne rose from
her chair with a terrified exclamation on her
lips.

I am too late, then ? He is gone !' Marjory
could scarcely frame the words  her tongue
seemed so heavy and dry.

Her look frightened Anne, for she burst into
tears as she took her in her arms.

My dear ! why have you come ? I wanted
you, but not like this. Oh, you poor child !'
reaching up to kiss her, for she was such a little
woman.

He has gone, then ?' repeated Marjory, in a
dull voice ; but she let Anne draw her to the
easy-chair, and sat down mechanically, only her
eyes did not leave Anne's face.

Yes, he has gone!' replied Anne, hardly
able to answer for her tears, they flowed so
rapidly at the sight of her child. ' You must
have passed him on the road, Marjory. He
left by the 8.58 train that reaches Charing
Cross at half-past ten. There is a train that
leaves Waterloo at a quarter-past eleven. He
expects to arrive at Southampton about half-past
one.'

And I must have passed him on the road ?'
in the same inward tone.

Yes, dear  yes,' fondling the hand she held.
But you must not take it to heart, Marjory ;
he could not bear to say good-bye. Capel is
so tender-hearted. He would not let me go
with him. Oh no, he said ; it would make

him miserable. He said very little ; only lie left
his love for you, and I was to ask you to come
home soon, that you might cheer me up.'

And you let him go ?'

Oh, my dear !' in a broken-hearted voice ;
how was I to help it ?  and he looking so thin
and unhappy, and saying he could not rest ; and
walking all day, and then coming home in the
evening, worn out with fatigue, and yet not able
to sleep. It is better for him to go, Marjory,
bad as it is to part with him. It is better than
to see him eating out his heart with restlessness.'


Marjory seemed to concentrate her thoughts
with difficulty. She looked long and fixedly at
Anne, as though she were trying to read her
thoughts. Her forehead was contracted with an
anxious frown, but in reality she was laying her
plans.

Anne was trembling like a leaf. The sudden
shock of seeing Marjory had broken down her
enforced calm. She had had a choking feeling
of misery all the evening, but had been unable
to shed a tear until she saw the girl's despairing
eyes. Anne's beautiful little face had grown
thinner and paler, and there were grey threads

in the bright brown hair ; but the tears were a
relief, and the sight of Marjory seemed to ease
the aching sense of loss.

Darling she said softly, * I know all about
it ; and it was better for him to go !'

He shall not go !' replied Marjory hoarsely.
Anne, do not cry so  I cannot bear it ! Where
is the railway guide ?  quick, quick !  bring it tome!'


And xA.nne, wondering, and very much frightened
by this sudden vehemence, did what she
was bidden to do.

Marjory turned over the pages with feverish
haste until she had found what she wanted.

Look here, Anne ; listen to me. Never
mind the noise outside ; it is only my luggage,
and Mackay can see to that. It is past ten now
nearly half-past  and there is no train at all
until seven a.m.'

No train ? What do you mean, Marjory ?'

I mean that we must follow him to Southampton
 you and I. He shall not go without
bidding me good-bye. He shall not. I will
not let him. Look here ; the first morning
train leaves Moorbridge at seven. We must
tell my flyman to come for us at half-past six.

VOL. III. 53

The Southampton train starts from Waterloo at
nine, and arrives at 11.20.'

But, Marjory, we might lose the train.'

We shall just do it ; I am sure we shall just
do it. If we lose that train, there is nothing
before 10.15, and that does not arrive at
Southampton until after one. He is to sail at
midday, is he not T

No ; he may go on board, but they will not
get off until evening. But, Marjory, my dear
child, do give up this foolish scheme. Capel
will not like to see us ; he may be displeased atour
following him. Anyhow, he will be embarrassed
and ill at ease, and it is too late
to alter his arrangements now. You look so ill,
Marjory, you quite frighten me ; and you have
been travelling all day.'

Very well, then, I will go alone,' returned
Marjory, in the same harsh, strained voice ; and
without waiting for Anne to answer, she went
out into the hall and paid the flyman, and gave
him her orders.

You must not be later than half-past six,'
Anne heard her say ; ' that train is very punctual.'


And then she went back into the room,

taking no notice of Anne, and began to lay
aside her hat and jacket in an absent, mechanical
way.

Anne watched her until she could bear it no
longer.

Oh, Marjory !' she said piteously, ' do not be
so unkind to me in the first hour of your return !
"Why will you not speak to me or look at me ?
Do you think for one moment that I should let
you go alone T

I do not want jou to displease him,' returned
Marjory with forced composure. ' He is your
brother, and you ought to know best what will
give him pleasure. I will not take you against
your will. I will go alone. I am not afraid of
what he will say to me.'

 But I shall go with you, all the same,' she
replied, in a hurt voice. ' Do you think I should
consider my own feelings, when you are so
unhappy, Marjory. Oh, my dear, what makes
you misunderstand me so to-night ? We will
go, both of us, and perhaps Cap el will not be
displeased.'

He will not; I am sure of that,' whispered
Marjory ; and then she put her arms round
Anne, and hid her face in her neck. * Forgive

532

me, Anne. I did not mean to be unkind ; but if
you knew how I have suffered !'

And then she told her how the letter had lain
in her pocket unread, and how it had almost
broken her heart to know that he was goiup:
away without giving her the opportunity of
speaking one word to him.

Anne listened in silence. "What could she
say to the poor child to comfort her ? In a few
hours Capel would be far away from them both,
and they would have to bear their loneliness.
Perhaps, if Marjory had her wish, and could bid
him good-bye, she would be more reasonable and
happy. Anne, in her simplicity, never guessed
at what was passing in Marjory's heart. Her
pure, reticent nature forbade any curious prying
into the girl's mind. She believed Marjory's
love for Capel was altogether filial, and imagined
that in a few weeks his absence would cease to
trouble her.

Marjory was grateful for this silence. It was
a relief to pour out some of her overcharged
feelings. She was so sure of Anne's sympathy,
so certain that no troublesome questions would
be asked her.

They talked together for a little while, hand-in-hand

; and then Anne insisted that a proper
meal should be prepared for her, and went in
search of Mackay. Marjory offered no objection.
She knew that ministry and loving service were
the strongest instincts of Anne's nature. To
wait upon those she loved was her highest form
of happiness.

The dull pain faded out of Marjory's eyes as
she watched the small womanly figure moving
busily to and fro, the busy hands occupied in
her service. She ate and drank obediently, as
Anne bade her ; only when her friend tried to
persuade her to go to bed for a few hours, she
turned suddenly restive.

I have been resting all day,' she said plaintively,
' and I should not be able to sleep. A
warm bath and a fresh change of clothes will
refresh me, and then I will lie down. I might
get a nap then.'

And Anne wisely forbore to press the point.

But going into her room an hour later, she
found Marjory ready equipped for her journey,
and sitting by the bedside with heavy eyes and
cheeks pale from her midnight vigil.

Now, you must lie down, my dear,' she said
in her gentle way, ' and I will lie beside you ;

and Mackay will call lis in time for our earls
breakfast.'

And she took the tired girl in her arms as
though she had been a child, and, to her delight,
soon heard the light, regular breathing that told
her Marjory had fallen asleep.

Thank God!' she thought;  she will not
wake now until Mackay calls us ;' and she was
right. Marjory slumbered peacefully, and woke
in the summer sunshine with Anne's voice in her
ear :

There is no hurry,' she said, as Marjory
started up in vague alarm. ' The fly will not be
round for half an hour. Bathe your face in cold
water. Mackay is making us some coffee. I
am so glad and thankful you have slept, my
child.'

But Anne never added that she had not closed
her eyes, and that her head was throbbing
ominously.

Marjory was very silent as they drove to the
station. How fresh and beautiful everything
looked at that early hour ! The birds were
singing loudly ; the dew sparkled on the yellow
gorse of the common ; the air felt fresh and
sweet, blowing from the uplands.

In spite of herself, a little hope crept into
Marjory's heart. She would not be too late
again. Oh no ; that was not possible. How
could she despair, with God's blessed sunshine
lying round her, and all the sweet sights and
sounds of nature ?

It was not until they were in the train and
were miles away from Mo orb ridge, that she
noticed Anne's paleness and jaded looks.

Oh, Anne, you have one of your bad headaches
coming on !' she exclaimed in dismay; for
here was a fresh difficulty.

'Never mind,' returned x\nne faintly. 'I
could not sleep, that was all. You must take
the lead, Marjory, for these headaches make
me so stupid. If I close my eyes and do not
talk, it may pass off in an hour or two. The
name of the hotel is the Waverley. You will
not forget that ;' and she tried to smile as she
spoke.

But her excessive paleness frightened Marjory.
She knew what these headaches meant.
They always followed any violent emotion or
fatigue, and kept Anne prostrate for hours.

Marjory' watched her, sorely troubled, until
they reached Waterloo, and then there was not

much time to lose. Marjory drew Anne's arm
through hers, and hurried her along the platform.


We shall just do it !' she exclaimed breathlessly,
as Anne sank back on a seat, half-stupefied
by a sudden accession of pain. * Oh,
how cruel I am to you !' she went on remorsefully.
* I have made your head worse, dragging
you along so quickly ; but now we are in the
Southampton train you will have nothing to do
but to rest.'

Anne made no answer ; she was trying to
hide from Marjory how ill she really felt.

I said we should just do it !' cried the girl
hysterically, as the guard put them into the
compartment and immediately gave the signal
for departure. Marjory added, * Thank God !'
to herself, as she darkened the windows, out of
pity to Anne's aching ejes, and tried to make
her comfortable. Happily she had some eau de
Cologne with her, and she could wet her handkerchief
and lay it on Anne's forehead. It was
only this that kept her from fainting ; but she
bore her sufferings as usual without complaining,
and tried to cheer Marjory by telling her
that she would be better soon.

The journey was miserable enough to them
both. Anne fretted inwardly because she had
failed Marjory just when she needed her most ;
and Marjory blamed herself for selfishness.
She should have come alone, or taken Mackay.
x\nne was not fit for the journey, and she ought
to have known it.

There was no help for it now ; she must do
the best for Anne that lay in her power. As
soon as they reached Southampton, she called a
ab, and desired the man to drive them as quickly
as possible to the Waverley Hotel ; it was not far
from the station. As soon as they stopped,
Marjory left Anne for a moment, and went into
the hotel to make inquiries.

The waiter asked her very civilly to wait a
moment while he went in search of the landlady.
In two or three minutes he returned
with a pleasant, comely-looking woman.

Yes ; Mr. Frere was in the hotel. He had
arrived about two that morning, and had had
his supper, and had gone to bed. He was
still in his room  number twenty-four  and
had ordered breakfast to be laid in a private
room. He had just rung for his hot water 
Charles was going to take it. Was there any

message the young lady would like to send upto
him ?'

Marjory reflected for a moment, and then said
No ; she only wanted the number of his sitting-room,
and she would join him by-and-by; but
she had a lady with her who was suffering from
a severe headache, and she must ask the landlady
to show them at once to a bedroom.' And
then she went back to Anne.

We are not too late. He is here ; he is
not out of his room yet,' she said quickly, as.
she went back to the cab.

Anne gave her a little smile, and pressed her
hand ; and then she let Marjory support her
into the hotel.

Do not stay with me ; this 3'oung woman
will do all I want,' she said, as the chambermaid
came to them to volunteer her services.

But Marjory refused to listen to this ; she
must see to her first, she said quietly, as she took
off her hat and jacket and prepared to wait on her.

The room felt close, so she opened the two
windows ; then she bathed Anne's face and
hands, and laid wet cloths upon her forehead.
Anne submitted gratefully for a little while ;
then she took hold of the busy hands.

Dear Marjory, I shall lie here quite comfortably
; I do not feel faint now, only the pain
will have its way for a few hours. Tell the
chambermaid to come in now and then and look
at me, but she must not ask me questions ; and
now go down to Capel, and make his breakfast
for him.'

I am going,' returned Marjoram in a love
voice, ' but he is not down yet ; his room is
next to this, and I can hear him moving about.
How little he guesses who are his next-door
neighbours!' and she laughed nervously.

That going down to meet him was not quite
so easy as she thought it would be last night.
Her excitement had ebbed, and she felt a little
dismayed at her own temerity.

I wish I did not look quite such a scarecrow,'
she said mentally, as she smoothed her
hair ; ' but it cannot be helped.' And then she
went slowly downstairs, casting furtive glances
behind her, and went in search of the sitting-room,
which she found without much difficulty.

It was a snug, shady little parlour, looking
out into a quiet street. The two windows were
open ; there was a stand of scarlet geraniums with
some mignonette in one of them  the room was

sweet with it. For ever after the scent of
mignonette brought back the memory of that
morning to Marjory.

The breakfast-table was laid, and the Timc
lay beside the plate. Marjory walked round
the room, looking at the pictures ; then she took
up her position by the window, and tried to
interest herself in the passers-by.

There was a flower-seller, with a white puny
baby in her arms ; the woman was marked with
the small-pox, and had a weak, hopeless-looking
face. ' How unhappy she is, and what a sickly
baby !' thought Marjory ; and she called her to
the window, and threw her a shilling.

You may give me as many flowers as you
like,' she said indifferently, ' but I like roses
best.'

She was quite surprised at the size of the
bunch that was handed to her ; but she took the
flowers so carelessly that they fell on the
window-seat, and it took her some time to
arrange them. A little crimson rosebud, just
opened, attracted her attention, and she laid it
on the Times, How often he had gathered
flowers for her  and this bud was so young and
pretty ! Just then the opening door startled

her so, that the flowers fell from her hands
again. It was only the waiter, however, with
the coffee-pot and a covered dish, and Marjory
turned again to the window

There were some church bells chiming  for a
wedding, most likely; and then some grey pigeons
flew down from the portico, and began strutting
about in the dust ; a wiry terrier came out and
barked at them, and a little ragged boy, with a
monkey and a hurdy-gurdy, limped slowly down
the pavement. He saw Marjory, and began to
tune up after the manner of his kind, and the
monkey hopped feebly on to his shoulder. Marjory
shook her head at him, and threw him
sixpence ; and the boy trudged away, grinning
from ear to ear.

The dreary grinding of the doleful instrument
had prevented Marjory from hearing again
the sound of the opening door.

Oh, what a world it is !' she said aloud ;
nothing but hungry women and children in it,
pain and sorrow everywhere.'

Good God, it is Marjory !' exclaimed a voice
behind her ; and as she turned herself quickly,
Mr. Frere came up to the window, and stood
beside her.

YOU KNEW ME BETTER !'

HEN the time comes I shall know
Avhat to say;' that was what Marjory
0)cdJ6 had told herself confidently over andover
again : yet no sooner had the familiar voice
sounded in her ear, no sooner had she looked up
and seen the shrewd, kindly face, and the keen
eyes that seemed searching her through and
through, than a great confusion and timidity
kept her tongue tied ; and though she turned
her head aside quickly, he could see that her
cheeks, and even her lips, were white.

But, even in that swift upward glance of
hers, she had noticed that a great change had
passed over him. He looked graver, thinner,
as though some shock or illness had befallen
him  as a man might look who had tasted of

some great bitterness, and had taken a long leave
of hope. All this was written legibly in his
face ; and yet there was a dawning wonder, and
something of the eagerness of an unexpected
joy in his eyes.

Marjory, it is you ! and yet I thought I must
have been dreaming !'

Yes,' she said in a low voice, but not looking
at him. ' x\nne and I have just arrived.'

Anne here ?' in still greater astonishment.

*Yes,' she repeated ; and now the colour began
to ebb back into her face, perhaps because she
was conscious how he watched her. ' I made
her come ; she was very hard to persuade at
first, because she said you would be displeased.
But no ; I told her that I knew you better than
she did.'

You knew me better than Anne did,' hu
repeated slowly ; and there was a strange
meaning and doubt in his voice.

But it escaped her, and she went on more
rapidly :

Anne is ill. She could not sleep last night,
and she has one of her dreadful headaches.
She is lying down upstairs in the room next
yours, and the chambermaid is looking after

her. I was to come clown and make your
breakfast she said ; ' and that reminds me,
Mr. Frere, that your coffee is getting coal.'

Never mind !' detaining her as she was
about to move away from him. ' Marjory, tell
me one thing. Have you come all this ways
just to bid me good-bye ?'

I wanted to see you again,' she returned,
with downcast eyes. * It was cruel of you,
cruel, to go away and leave me without a word.
I would not have believed it of you.' And hero
her voice trembled. 'I told Anne that I would
not bear it  that I could not help it whether
you were displeased with me or not.'

Marjory, you are giving me something very
precious to carry away with me. My heart
will not be quite so heavy to-night.'

She flashed a sudden appealing look at him;
and he could feel her fingers fluttering in his
grasp in a helpless frightened way. Go  he
would go after all ! And how was she to stop
him ? How was she to speak the words that
alone would keep him by her side ? A sort of
despair fell on her. Surely he might understand
ber without any words.

Come,' he said gently; ' you are too pale,

Marjory Doo. I have driven the colour twice
out of your face abbacy. You used not to he
so afraid of me. There will be plenty of time
to talk by-and-by, for I do not go on board
until evening. Sit down, dear, and we will
breakfast together, and you shall pour out my
coffee, just as you used to do at Muriel's End.
See, I wall ring for another cup and plate ; and
if the omelette be spoilt, that is your fault, and
not mine.'

I have had one breakfast already,' she said,
with a little laugh. ' It was rather an early
one, however ; but still I am not hungry.'

But she might as well have talked to the
wind. Mr. Frere insisted on summoning the
waiter and giving him very particular orders.
There was to be fresh coffee made, and some
cream brought. The young lady liked cream,
and the omelette was a failure ; but there might
be cold ham  yes  and a pigeon-pie. Oh, he
thought a pigeon-pie would be a capital iiiccc ch
resistance.

In vain Marjory protested that she could not
and would not eat.

Mr. Frere insisted that the table should be
covered with provisions. Marjory was helped

VOL. III. 54

liberally, and then lie made a pretence of setting
lier a good example. The pie, he said, was
excellent, and so was the coffee ; but though he
said this, there was very little food taken by
either of them : for  how could he eat in that
sweet young presence, when the girl's eyes
were dim with trouble, and there was that
childish quiver on her lips ? He laid down his
knife and fork presently, as though the task were
beyond him.

Did you come all the waj from St. Kildare
bid me good-bye ?' he said at last ; but his
eyes were on his plate as he spoke.

'Yes,' she returned, somewhat reluctantly.
By some accident, I forgot Anne's letter with
your note inside, and never opened it until
yesterday, I made up my mind then that I
would come at once ; that after all those years
you were treating me cruelly in leaving me
without a word, and that I would not bear
it.'

I did not mean to be cruel,' he said, defending
himself. ' Men do not feel like women in
this ; they cannot endure piling up agony.
There is the parting. Well, that is pain enough,
without sajdng good-bye. It is better to get it

oyer without a word  when the word almost
chokes a man to speak it.'

I do not feel like that she answered.
I would bid my friend God-speed  if he would
go  but '

But what, Marjory T

But she would not finish her sentence.

By-the-bye/ he went on lightly, * Anne
was afraid of displeasing me by coming, was
she not ? But you knew better than that

Oh yes,' she returned, falling at once into
the trap laid for her. ' I told Anne that I knew
you better than she did.'

Yell, that is strange!' in a musing voice ;
and yet Anne and I have lived together all our
lives. But you knew me better than she did,
Marjory ! How long have you gained that
knowledge, dear ?'

She looked up at him, startled for a moment ;
but, in spite of the vagueness of his words, there
w-as no mistaking his expression. She knew
then that she was understood. She put up her
hands to try and hide the flush that suffused
her face. Then her head went down on
them lower and lower. She would rather have
died than have said a word.

542

He waited silently for a minute or two.
Perhaps be found it difficult to speak too.
Then he quietly raised her face and looked at it,
and a low murmur of satisfaction that was almost
a blessing escaped him.

Is it so ?' be said. ' Is such a miracle
possible ? And I am not to go after all, Marjory
?'

No,' she whispered, and now her face was
hidden on his shoulder. ' You are never to
leave me  never to leave me again.'

You know what you are saying, dear T
touching her hair caressingly. * You know that
I can only stay as your husband  not your
friend.'

He understood her, with some little difficulty,
to say that was what she meant, but it was not
for her to say it.

I will try to believe it,' he said presently,
when they had been silent for a little while, but
the wondering look was still in his eyes. * If
I ask you every hour of the day if it be true,
Marjory, you must bear with me, for I think I
am almost dazed with this unexpected happiness.
This morning I woke the most miserable wretch
in the world, thinking years would pass before

I should have* the courage to see your face
again. I opened the door, expecting vacancy,
and there you stood in the sunshine, with this
rare gift in your hand. Are you sure  are you
quite sure  that you really mean it  that my
grey hair does not frighten you T

It does not frighten me at all,' she returned
shyly.

'Come and let us sit down drawing her to
the low couch that stood between the windows.
It wants the strength of youth to support such
a weight of happiness ; and there is so much that
wee have to talk about, and there is no need for
us to stand. I do not feel that I can understand
things properly. Do you remember, dear, that
day in the Mavis Woods, and how you bade me
hope nothing? "Do not hope  do not  do
not !" that was what you kept saying.'

Yes, I know ;' and the tears came to her
eyes. ' I could not help saying that, you took
me so much by surprise. I think,' in the
lowest possible voice, for she was still very shy
with him, * that I began to repent directly you
went ; but I never knew what I really felt until
I read that note, bidding me good-bye.'

'No,' he repeated, and there was a strange

brightness in his eyes. * And you really feel
that you can love me well enough to marry me T

I think so  I hope so,' she faltered ; and
she said a little piteously : ' I do not love you
now as well as I ought ; but if you will be
patient with me, I am sure that it will soon be
all right. Your loving me makes me happy,
and I never want you to leave me again.'

That is enough to satisfy me,' he replied,
soothing her, for she was becoming agitated at
his questions ; and then he went on telling her
very gently that he was sure now that she cared
for him, even when she refused him, though
they neither of them knew it at the time. That
she must never blame herself for the pain she
gave him then, for her sweetness and honesty
on that occasion had made her far dearer to him ;
that though she was so young, only one-and-twenty
next month, and he was nearly a quarter of
a century older than she, that he was not afraid
to let her engage herself to him, or to marry her.
*For you must know, my sweet,' he finished,
that a conscientious man will never marry a
woman unless he feels that he is the one person
likely to make her happy ; and I feel that I and
no other man should be your husband.'

They talked a little longer, until she was
calm and happy again ; and he had made her
laugh by telling her that Mr. Frere was a
tabooed person, and that he never meant to
answer to an}? name but Capel.

'But it seems taking such a liberty,' she
objected, with a blush.

You will find that it is a liberty quite to my
taste,' he answered, smiling ; ' and though it
may be difficult at first, I am not quite such a
Methuselah that I am to be debarred from the
use of a Christian name.'

And when she found he was a little sensitive
on the subject, and that her refusal would hurt
him, she promised to do her best to get used to it.

Now that weighty matter is settled, there is
something else that I must do,' he observed,
starting up from the couch. 'Do you know
that you have upset all my arrangements, that
my passage-money is lost, and that my luggage
may be on board for all I know ? I must leave
you for some time, Marjory ; there is the
captain to see, and the steward, and all sorts of
business to settle ; then there is Anne to be
considered. You will never get her back to
Moorbridge to-night.'

I never thought of that returned Marjory,
and her face clouded a little. ' And yet how
are we to stay ?  we have brought nothing with
us.'

He considered this question gravely  bringing
all his man's wit to bear upon the difficulty.
Then he said gravely that he would go in search
of the landlady, and see what she could recommend
on the emergency ; but when he returned
a quarter of an hour later, his whole air was
jubilant.

We have ordered such a dinner, Marjory !
I never knew such a sensible woman ; her ideas
are tremendous. She said of course the ladies
would like champagne, and they had a first-rate
brand ; and I said yes, of course, because I could
see she expected it. Then as to your little
difficulty, wh} she was full of resources ; she
will find everything for your use and Anne's 
putting it all down in the bill. She has
daughters ; I saw one of them  a pretty girl
about your height ; and if there was anything
that you wanted to buy  well, her daughter
could get it ; there are plenty of shops in
Southampton. By-the-bye, I must do a little
business myself this afternoon '  and here he

looked mischievous. ' You never wear rings,

Marjory  oh, I have noticed that  hut I think
I shall know your size ; and  my dear, you are

surely not going to leave me T

I must go to Anne ; she has been left long

enough alone,' returned Marjory, making her

escape. ' Good-bye until evening, Mr. Frere.

Oh, I forgot  but I will do better next time,'

laughing at him from the doorway.

Anne was looking very white and wistful, as

Marjory entered ; her head was really better,

she said, and the maid was fetching her some

strong: coffee.

If I lie quiet for two or three hours, I shall

be able to come down; but, Marjory, why does

not Capel come and see me T

He thought he had better not,' she answered,
keeping her face well out of Anne's view ; ' he
does not sail to-night after all, Anne. You
will see him tomorrow and the next day.'

She did not dare to say more than this in
Anne's weak, suffering condition. When her
head was really better, she would tell her all ;
but she dared not bring on a return of the
pain. As it was, tears of relief came to Anne's
eyes.

I shall see him tomorrow ; and why not tonight,
Marjory ?'

 He is going out now  he has so much business
to settle. If you are better, you can come
downstairs, and partake of the grand dinner he
has ordered. Do you know, he has been extravagant,
and has actually ordered champagne.'

Anne smiled faintly.

I mean to come down. I am sure the pain
will not last much longer. Oh, I am so thankful
that we have come, and that he is not vexed
with us ! Did he seem at all vexed, Marjory?'

He was astonished, and very much pleased ;
it has quite cheered him up,' replied Marjory,
going as near the truth as she dared. ' We had
breakfast together, and he ordered up a great
ham and a pigeon-pie, and neither of us ate anything.
I think the waiter will laugh when he
sees our plates ; and he told him to bring cream,
because I was so fond of it, and I quite forgot
it. He will think us funny people, will he not,
Anne ?'

And what did you and Capel talk about ?'

Oh, we talked about  things,' returned
Marjory desperately. ' But here comes your
coffee, Anne. Do you know '  yawning a little

' I am getting very sleepy again. We had
such a broken night, and all that travelling and
anxiety has taken it out of me.'

Marjory was only speaking the truth. Her
excitement was over ; and the intense relief 
the knowledge that her friend would never leave
her again  made rest possible. She felt a
strange weariness, a delicious languor creeping
over her; and at Anne's suggestion she drew
an easy chair to the bedside, and, laying her
head against the pillow, soon sank into a
dreamless sleep.

Anne lay and watched her. She thought
Marjory's face looked a little thin and worn in
her sleep ; there were lines round the mouth
she had never noticed before.

'She has grown older in the last few months,'
she thought. * Now her poor mother is dead,
one great source of bitterness will be removed
from her life. No one can claim her now  she is
my child and Capel's.' But x\nne never dreamt
of the secret that lay in Marjory's breast, and
how a living mother was asserting natural rights
over the girl's affection.

A slight movement in the room at last roused
Marjory. Anne was standing by her.

My dear, you have had such a nice long
sleep, and I thmk I must have dozed to keep
you company, for the pain has quite left me.
Capel has been in his room  I heard him moving
about. It is past five, Marjory, and you say he
has ordered dinner at six.'

The mention of Capel's name banished Marjory's
drowsiness at once.

Oh, I must go down to him,' she said
hastily. ' He will wonder what has become
of me.' And then she blushed a little at her
own words, and turned away to smooth her
hair.

Tell him that my headache has quite gone,
and that I will be down soon,' observed Anne
innocently ; and Marjory nodded assent.

She was anxious to evade Anne's scrutiny,
but when she was outside the parlour-door a
sort of shyness at the thought of seeing him
made her hesitate a moment. She could hear
him pacing restlessly up and down the room, as
though he were marvelling at her absence.
As she turned the handle he came up to herat
once, and there was impatience in his
voice.

 Where have you been, i\Iarjory ? I have

been hurrying back to you, and you have kept
me waiting all this time. You must have
known how I should be longing to see you

adam.

He spoke reproachfully, but there was a
great softness in his eyes as he looked at
her.

I was asleep,' she answered simply. 'You
forget how tired I was.'

I think I forget everything but what you
told me this morning. Look here, dear ! see
what I have brought you. Xo ; give me your
hand first. It will look better in its proper
place.'

And in another moment a magnificent half-hoop
of diamonds was blazing on one of Marjory's
slender little fingers.

Is that for me T she asked, with almost awe
in her voice. ' Oh, it is far too beautiful, Mr.
Frere !  Capel, I mean.'

Thank you,' he said, kissing her. * That
was brave of you, dear. Hush ! Here come s
Anne !'

And, with almost boyish embarrassment, he
released her, and went to welcome his sister.

*Ycu are looking pale, Anne, my dear,' he

said, leading her to a chair ; ' but you vill soon
get better now

Oh, I hope so !' misunderstanding his meaning.
* Capel, I was thankful to hear that
you were not vexed at us for following
you

Oh no !' he returned, laughing a little
nervously ; ' I was not vexed at all. Far
from it.'

And you have two days more to spend
with us ?'

Two days !' looking at her in a bewildered
sort of way. ' Do you mean that Marjory has
not told you ?'

She has told me nothing but that;' and,
to her surprise, Capel turned suddenly very
red.

Why,' he stammered, ' I have made up my
mind to stay quietly at home.'

He broke down here, and Marjory tried
hard to keep from laughing ; he was so evidently
out of countenance, and it was impossible
to go to his relief. And there was Anne, looking
from one to the other in a painfully anxious
manner.

And how they would have got out of the

difficulty neither of them knew; only just then
Anne caught sight of the diamonds, and, by a
sort of feminine inspiration, guessed the whole
truth.

*0h!' she gasped, and there was a low,
sobbing sigh of relief, and she turned very pale ;
but before either of them could speak, she had
taken her brother's hand and kissed it.

Capel  dear brother, is it true ? Marjory-come
to me ! You have made me so happy !
Darling, to think jou came to us out of the snow.'
for this !'

And then she could say no more  only cried
softly to herself from sheer happiness ; and
Marjory cried a little too, out of sympathy.

Mr. Frere said afterwards that he was just
going to take up his hat and fly, but for the
opportune appearance of the waiter. The sight
of a fellow-man restored his courage, and fortified
him with the prospect of dinner. It was a
privilege, he said, to watch that man. His
folding of napkins was an art ; and he thought
his sister and Marjory would have done better
to take lessons from such an artiste, than to sit
whispering together hand-in-hand.

He rallied them on this subject between the

courses  inJeetl, lie kept up such a flow of conversation,
perfectly unaided by the two women,
that the waiter, in spite of his stolidity, was
evidently impressed by his eloquence ; and
when that functionary had withdrawal, he declared
that he was wound up to that pitch that
nothing short of a speech would relieve him, and
he called upon Marjory to witness that he had
only twice tilled his glass with champagne.

He delivered it in his usual fashion, walking
up and down, while Anne and Marjory sat by
the open window.

He began by self-laudation. He said he was
surprised himself  in fact, overwhelmed with
astonishment, to see what a successful thing he
had made of his life, and he could only account
for it by his extreme love of philosophy and his
great patience in waiting. Young men generall'
made a mistake at the beginning. They were
like Impatience in the ' Pilgrim's Progress.'
They wanted all their good things at once, and
they got through them as rapidly as possible.
At thirty they had exhausted everything; they
were h\a2,c ; and they agreed with Solomon
that there was nothing new under the sun.

He was thankful to say  indeed, he was

modestly elated to know  that he was not one
of these young men. He had taken life quietly,
diluting his pleasures so that they lasted longer.
Domestic life had been to his taste, and he had
enjoyed a good spell of domesticity. He had
had his little experiences. Well, perhaps they
had been painful at the time ; but, like a burnt
child, he had evaded the fire ever afterwards. He
had travelled, he had seen the world, he had
enjoyed the sweets of bachelorhood and club-life.
Many were the pipes he had smoked, and
a total absence of responsibility had made him
sleep sweetly at nights. He knew many henpecked
husbands and careworn fathers of
families who had considered him an enviable
person. He quite agreed with them. But the
grandest point of all in his career had been that
he had trained and educated his future wife most
carefully, that

Here there was a little scornful protest on
Marjory's part, at which he quietly smiled, but
went on in the same fluent manner :

To some people her youth might have been
an obstacle, but it was none in his eyes. Proud
as he was of his grey hairs, he was prouder still
to think that he had embued her with his

VOL. III. Ki

philosophy and indoctrinated her with his own
peculiar views. As a matter of course, he did
not think much of women's rights. He considered
they talked a great deal of rubbish ; but
he was thankful to know that the young person
who had consented to be Mrs. Frere was perfectly
docile and submissive, and never advocated
her own opinions. And then, as Marjory's
eyes flashed at this audacious speech, he suddenly
broke ofi" and came up to her.

It is a lovely evening. Will you go outwith
me, Marjory ?' he whispered very gently.

But it was not with this sort of talk that he
beguiled her as they walked together in the sunset,
until the stars came out and peeped at
Marjory leaning on the arm of her grey-haired
lover, as they stood together by Southampton
Water.

UNEXPECTED TIDINGS.

1 HE next clay they returned to Muriel's
End, and took up the old life again
the old life, and yet how changed
to Marjory !

But for the knowledge of her secret, and the
sad yearning pain that filled her whenever the
thought of Mavisbank and its inmates recurred
to her, she would have been perfectly happy.
Every day she was drawing closer to her future
husband  every day she was learning more of
his noble, unselfish nature. As her reverence
deepened, her love increased ; and very soon she
could echo Anne's words  that there was not a
man living to equal Capel.

She felt herself to be what she really was 

552

the light of his eyes, and the hidden treasure of
his heart. Now there was no further need of
reticence ; he could pour out, "without rebuke,
the vliole stealth of his love on her. Marjory
almost trembled as she listened ; she was so
conscious of her own faults, so aware that she
never even aimed at the standard he allotted her.
But when she hinted at this, he told her gravely
that she was not faultless to him, that she never
had been, but that he loved her so well that he
hardly noticed her defects.

The only cloud between them lay in her unfortunate
secret. Marjory could not always hide
her sadness from him. Once or twice, even in
the first weeks of their engagement, he had
come upon her unexpectedly, and had found her
trying to banish hastily the traces of tears for
which she could give no reason.

Once he sat down beside her, and reasoned
with her gently.

Marjory,' he said, * you are very nearly perfect
in my eyes, but there is one flaw in your
character  you are not quite generous. You are
giving me yourself, but not your whole confidence.'


She murmured something  that it was not

always possible to give that ; but he shook his
head at this fallacy.

My dear,' he said, * Anne and I have taken
great pains with your education, but in one
branch you are showing yourself a decided
dunce. Do you know there ought to be no
reservations between husband and wife, or between
engaged people ? You are wearing my
ring, and we are already thinking of fixing the
day, and yet you are still keeping that secret
from me.'

Marjory looked up at him with wide-open
frightened eyes :

What secret do you mean, Capel T

The one that has made you unhappy ever
since you went to Whitecliffe. Do you remember
your words ?  you spoke them on this very
bench : ** One day I will come to you of my own
accord." Has not the time come, Marjory ?'

'No,' she whispered ; ' and you promised me
then that you would not ask me again.'

He sighed restlessly.

Well, but I thought things were different
with us now. You had not promised to many
me then. Think how I am circumstanced, and
take pity upon me ! I love you more than anyone

iu the world, but when I see you unhappy
I am not to ask the reason

This touched her, as he knew it would.

Dear Capel, I am quite happy when I am
with sou. If there where no one to consider
but myself, I would tell you now. But I dare
not ! I dare not for the sake of others

Do you mean that this secret does not concern
yourself, but only other people V

It concerns more than myself,' she answered
ambiguously. * My telling it might lead to
infinite trouble

Why so ?' with the keen glance she dreaded.
Do you think I should not guard your confidence
most sacredly  as you would mine ?
Have I not a right, as your future husband, to
know all that concerns you T

You have the right,' she answered, dropping
her eyes, * but you will be generous, Capel, and
not claim it. You will trust me a little
longer T

 I suppose I must,' he returned reluctantly;
 but I do not feel easy, Marjory. You are so
young, you have so little knowledge of the World
evil-minded people might dupe you very
easily.'

Yes ; but I will never do anything again
without asking your advice,' she replied 

you promise me that ?' turning on her
quickly. ' Will you promise me faithfully,
Marjory, that as soon as possible you will tell
me this thing ; and that until then you will
never take a single step without coming to me
first ; and that if any fresh difficulty, any new
complication arises  I am talking in the dark,
you see  you will then be perfectly open with
me?'

*Yes,' she replied very soberly; 'I think I
can promise you that.'

And, Marjory,' here his voice became very
persuasive, ' will you not think very seriously of
what I said last night ? We have been engaged
a month  it is nearly the end of August now.
To-morrow you will be one-and-twenty, and you
will be Nellie Walford's bridesmaid. Nellie is
setting you an excellent example, and there is
every inducement for you to follow it. Your
friends at Mavisbank have inundated you with
congratulations ; they, as well as Anne, heartily
commend your taste. Now, my dear, you remember
that I am not a young man, and that in

my case there is nothing to-warrant delay. I
see Anne is judiciously acting on my hints, and,
as we have agreed that any sort of fuss would
be obnoxious, the sooner we settle this business
the better.'

Marjory listened with a heightened colour,
but her answer was not ready. He had spoken
to her more than once on this subject, and she
had felt the force of his reasoning. No, he was
not a young man ; and, as he had told her,
there had been very little joy in his life. His
early manhood had been clouded by disappointment,
and he had passed many years in aimless,
desultory wanderings. * I have done very little
good in my generation,' he had said sadly,
though I have harmed no one. Child, do you
remember your little sermon on the East Hill ?
The arrow shot at a venture most certainly
pierced my armour  there.'

And then he had gone on speaking, but very
gently, so as not to alarm her. She was very
young, he said, but that was a fault that time
would cure ; and no one could say that he was
not old enough to take care of her. He congratulated
himself that he had sufficient knowledge
of the world for them both. He almost

rejoiced that his hair was grey when he remembered
this.

So, my dear,' he had concluded, * as we
have known each other intimately for eighteen
years, we have nothing more to lean about
each other's character. You were always a
reasonable creature, Marjory, and I am sure
your good sense will plead for me. And,' he
continued, in a wily manner, ' you will find
Anne is quite of my opinion.'

All this had been said to her on the previous
day ; and in the evening, when they had been
alone together, Anne had spoken on the same
subject, dropping little hints that showed in
what groove her thoughts ran.

It was about Nellie Walford, so soon to be
Nellie Brooks, that she had been talking ; but
she branched off a little from that topic, and
asked Marjory if she did not think long engagements
very wearying to both parties ; but as
Marjory held no particular views on this matter,
she had gone on  rather hesitatingly  to give
her own opinion.

She thought  yes, she certainly thought
that long engagements were to be deprecated 
they unsettled young people dreadfully ; and

when, for example, the gentleman was not very
young '

'Ah, I know what you mean!' interrupted
Marjory, with a blush. ' Dear Anne, you need
not beat about the bush. Capel has been
worrying me about that already. I tell him
that I am in no hurry ; but that does not seem
to make any difference. I never knew he could
be so masterful.'

Anne smiled. She thought it possible that
Marjory knew very little about men, and how
they could employ the craft of the serpent, and
the innocence of the dove, to compass their own
ends. She took the girl's glowing face between
her hands and kissed it.

Marjory, I hope, for Capel's sake, that 3'ou
will not be adverse to an early marriage. It is a
little hard for a man of his age to act the lover
not but what he can play that role more perfectly
than even younger men ; but I think he
would be happier if he were settled. He has told
me so, and I believe him. He shall not hurry
you too much, dear ; but when next he speaks
to you, I hope you will fix some date that is not
too distant.'

rjory was pondering over Anne's words,

as she sat by silently listening to Mr. Frere's
arguments. The idea of an early marriage was
not distasteful to her ; she would lay aside that
odious name, then. No one would ever call her
Miss Deane again. If it were only for this
reason, she was quite willing to marry him as
soon as possible. And never once did the
thought cross her of the risk she ran by marrying
under a false name.

But she had her own ideas on the subject,
and when he had finished what he was saying,
she replied a little irrelevantly :

Capel, do you know  oh, I forgot I never
told you  I had a letter from Lilies, yesterday.
Such a dear letter ; and she says they are afraid
that their marriage will have to be put off until
the spring, because of poor Mrs. Wentworth.
She is very ill  dangerously ill, they think.'

I am sorry for that,' he returned gravely.
Wentworth has waited too long already ; that
sort of thing tells on a man.'

Yes, I am sorry for him,' observed Marjoiy
softly ; * but Lilies will be quite happy to
wait

You can be sorry for him, and not for me
pretending to frown.

Oh, I have not kept you waiting long,' she
replied lightly. ' I will promise to be reasonable,
but then you must be reasonable too.
Listen to me, Capel : most people do not like
winter weddings ; but for me, I do not mind
them at all. New Year's Day  now I think
that would be a grand day  the best day in the
whole year to begin a new life.'

Four whole months to wait,' he returned, ina
grumbling voice.

But he was well pleased, for all that ; he had
feared his bird would have wanted a longer
flight than that.

They will soon pass,' she replied quietly ;
and nothing would induce me to be married
this year.' And here the strained restless look
came into her eyes. ' We will begin the new
year together, if you will.'

Yes, yes,' he returned eagerly ; but he
wondered a little at the pain in her voice.

And, Capel,' in a still more agitated manner,
 promise me that it shall be very quiet. I
would not have a wedding like Nellie's  oh, not
for worlds ! Lilies says she means to be my
bridesmaid, as I cannot be hers ; but I will
have no bridesmaids  oh, none at all! I want

you and Anne to take me away to some quiet
place, where no one will notice us, and we can
go to church together just as though there were
no marriage

Why, Marjory !' he exclaimed in surprise.

But when he saw the beautiful dark eyes
were full of tears, he repressed his astonishment,
and only tried to comfort her.

Nothing could suit me better,' he returned
cheerfully. ' I will tell you what we will do,
darling. We will go down to Whitecliffe in
December  you and Anne can go to some nice
lodgings, and I will put up at the Crown  and
I will come and fetch you for long walks ; and
we will go to the East Hill and to the Castle, and
to all our old haunts. And in the evenings,
when I have finished my dinner, I will tap on
the window, and you will come out to me, and
we will walk up and down the parade in the
darkness. And then, when New Year's Day
comes  well, what can be easier ? We can
drive to the little church, you remember ; and
in half an hour the whole thing will be accomplished.'


Oh, I am so glad you do not object,' she
replied, clasping his arm gratefully. * You are

doing it to please me, I know ; but indeed you
have lifted a weight from my mind

That is well,' he returned, still more cheerfully.
' Now we must go back, or Anne will be
wondering what has become of us. Look at
those clouds, Marjory. It has been very sultry
all day  I expect we shall have a storm before
night.'

Oh, I hope not. Ever since that evening in
the Mavis Woods I have hated storms;' but
here she checked herself in alarm.

Were you out in a storm, then?' he asked,
looking at her.

Yes, and I was alone. Oh, it was horrible !'
and she shivered and hurried on ; the remembrance
was a sort of nightmare to her.

Perhaps it will pass off,' he replied soothingly,
as he watched her.

It was this kind of change in her that
.troubled him. They would be talking happily
together, and Marjory would be laughing ; and
all at once, at a word  some chance word 
she would turn pale, and a strange look would
come into her eyes, and she would sink into
silence.

If I could only find out what troubles her,'

he would say to himself ; * when she is my wife,
I shall know then. I shall find a way to make
her speak  I am sure of that.'

They were both a little silent, as they entered
Muriel's End. Mackay met them at the hall-door.
Her mistress was out, she said : she had
been called down to Lupin Cottage, as old
Hawthorne was much worse ; and they were
not to wait dinner, in case she should be
delayed.

Very well,' observed Marjory ; and she would
have passed on, only Mackay detained her.

There is a telegram and a letter for you.
Miss Marjory, in the morning-room. The boy
had a deal to say about the telegram. There
was a mistake in the address ; it has been to
Trowbridge, and Uxbridge, and I don't know
how many-bridges. But it seems you ought to
have got it the first thing this morning. Mistress
was in a hurry, or she would have opened it.'

I have never had a telegram before !' exclaimed
Marjory. ' I hope  oh, I hope there
is nothing wrong!'

Nonsense!' replied Mr. Frere, laughing at
her. * Why, I have received hundreds of telegrams,
and not one has told me bad news.

You are nervous, dear. Shall I open this
wonderful telegram for you ?'

Yes, please,' she returned, in a frightened
whisper. And still laughing at her, he tore the
envelope open.

Why, it is from Margaret Ainslie,' he began ;
but, as he glanced at the message, a shocked
look came over his face, and he tried to cover
the paper with his hand.

My dear, this is dreadful,' he said in a
grieved voice ; but she would not let him go on,
only tore the paper out of his hand.

And this was what they both read :
Lilies is dead  she died quite suddenly. I
will write full particulars. Barry wishes it.'

'it was a terrible mistake!'

Alias is dead !'

Was it true ? Could it be true ?*
that was what Marjory's eyes
seemed to ask him, for she could not speak.
How could she, when the words seemed frozen
on her lips ?'

Dear,' he said, very gently  for he understood
that voiceless question  ' I fear it is true ;
there can be no mistake about it. This is a sad
shock for you ; but we must see what Miss
Ainslie says in her letter.' And as he put it
into her hands, a look of anguish crossed her
face.

I cannot read it, I cannot. Oh !' with a
choking sob, * it was for Lilies I did it  only
for Lilies. And now it has all been in vain.

VOL. Il 5G

Capel, it will kill my mother  her life is boiuid
up with Lilies.'

Dear Marjory he said, wondering at this 
for her words were inexplicable to him  ' your
poor mother is at rest ; no sorrow can touch her
now. Neither must we grieve too sorely for
that bright spirit that has taken its flight. She
always seemed to me as innocent as a little
child, Marjory. And we are told that ' of
such is the kingdom of heaven." '

*I know it,' she returned. And now the
tears were running down her face. * She was
too sweet and good for this world. But it is of
my mother I am thinking  my dear, beautiful
mother  who will be breaking her heart alone.'

What do you mean ?' he asked, sorely perplexed
 for he could make nothing of this. * Is
it of Mrs. Carr you are speaking  of Lilies's
mother ?'

No,' she returned, between her sobs ; ' it is
Lilies's mother who is dead, but mine is living.
Oh no, I am not wandering ; it is the truth,
and you must believe it. It was for Lilies I
came away; and now she is dead, and my mother
thinks she has no daughter at all.'

Mr. Frere had grown almost as pale as

Marjory in his great surprise. No, she was not
wandering ; there was some method in her
madness. In that second there flashed into his
mind a conviction that she was speaking the
truth. That wonderful likeness to Mrs. Carr,
that strange unlikeness to poor Miriam. Good
heavens ! was this the secret she had been keeping
from him ? Was it possible that she had
had the strength to endure all this alone ?
What was it she had done ? What did those
words mean ? Had she discovered her rightful
inheritance only to renounce it  for Lilies's
sake ? Oh, it was incredible, impossible !
There was much that he must ask, but not now,
when she was almost convulsed with those
passionate sobs. She must be calmer before he
could speak to her. He put his arm round her
and drew her to a seat, and then he fetched her
some water, and made her drink it.

Now you are a little better,' he said, placing
himself beside her, ' and you will like me to
read you the letter, that we may see how things
are. I will read it very slowly, and you will
try to follow it, will you not ?' And though
she did not answer, he could see that she
checked her sobs to listen.

562

"Dear Marjory" it began, * "I have promised
Barry to tell you everything. He says that
you will be so sorrj for them, and that you
loved her so ; but indeed, everyone loved her.
I found afterwards that I had sent the telegram
too late, and that the office was closed, and so
you will get my letter a few hours after it has
arrived. I know you will be dreadfully grieved,
Marjory ; but my father tells me that the news
will not be so great a shock to you as to others,
as you knew that our dear Lilies had heart
disease, and that her life was a precarious one.
He says he had tried to warn her mother, but
she had refused to understand his hints.

" But now I must tell you all from the beginning,
and if my hand shakes, you must forgive
that, for the tears weill come into my eyes as I
write.

'how I wish you could see her now ! I think
you would feel less sorrowful. She looks like
some beautiful angel, or a child who has fallen
asleep with a smile on her lips. We see the
purity and the innocence so clearly stamped on
her dear face. Do you remember what her
mother once said of her  *' that she was only
fit for a world where there was no marrying or

giving in marriage ' ' ? you repeated that speech tome.
Well, I think it was true ; she was one
of God's little ones, and He has called her
home, because she was young and weak.

*' But, now for my sad story :

'* I had gone up to Mavisbank that
afternoon, because they had found fault with
me for being such a stranger ; and as I had some
few hours at my disposal, I thought I would
surprise them with a visit.

" I found Mrs. Carr alone in Cosy Nook.
She said Lilies was not feeling very well, and
had complained of the heat ; and she had gone
to her favourite seat in the wood. I might join
her if I liked ; and Hurrell was coming presently,
and she should send him after us.

'' I was very willing to go, for I was longing
for a talk with Lilies. I knew my way to
the dell perfectly, and I was not long in reaching
it.

' I never shall forget how lovely it looked.
I never heard the birds sing as they did that
afternoon, as I stepped across the grass. I
thought Lilies was asleep. Her hat was lying
on the bench, and the sun shone on her hair ;
one arm was leaning over the back of the seat,

and her face was half hidden on it. It was just
the attitude of a child who had grown weary of
play, and had fallen asleep.

'*'I remember I smiled as I stooped over
and kissed her ; and then I wondered that her
face was cold, and that she did not move ; the next
moment a terrible fear seized me. Surely she
looked very strange ! I took hold of her, and called
her loudly ; and then all at once I understood
what it meant. Marjory, I knelt down for a
moment, and asked God to give me strength to
carry the dreadful news ; and then, without
giving myself time for thought, I ran through
the wood. But before I could reach the house
I met Hurrell.

*' He was whistling in his old merry fashion;
but, when he saw my face, he stopped and
stared at me.

*"I hardly know what I said to him; he
asked me if anything were the matter, and I
answered, * Yes ; something very dreadful had
happened, aud he must be prepared for a great
shock.' And he said, still staring at me in a fixed
sort of way, ' Has it anything to do with Lilies ?'
and I gave a great sob, for the words would not
come, and pointed up the path.

'' ' You must speak out !' he said, gripping
my arm quite angrily ; ' where is Lilies ?
what has happened to her ?'

' His face frightened me, and I remember
I begged him to be calm for her mother's sake
it would kill her mother. I said she was on
the bench in the wood, and he would see for
himself ; for somehow, I could not tell him she
was dead. But, when he had heard me so far,
he flung my arm away, and tore down the path,
and I followed him as quickly as I could.

' But before I could get to the dell I could
hear his footsteps returning ; he had her in his
arms, and he called to me quite fiercely to let
him pass.

'' ' She has fainted,' he said in a hoarse
voice  ' you were wrong to leave her ; but her
mother will know what remedies to propose !'
And though I called after him  though I begged
and implored him not to let Mrs. Carr see him
  though I prayed him that I might go first,
and prepare her  he was perfectly deaf to my
voice. He had laid her on the couch, and her
head was on her mother's lap ; and that was
how I found them.

He would not believe that she was dead ;

((

nothing would make him believe it. My father
came and spoke to him  there was nothing
to be done, he said : life had been extinct some
lime. And he turned on my father, when he
said this, as though he would have struck him.
I do not know what we should have done, only
Mrs. Carr came up to him as he stood there
almost raving  poor Hurrell !  and drew his
head down to her shoulder, and called him her
poor boy  her dear son, and begged him in a
heart-broken voice not to add to her trouble, for
their darling was in heaven. And then she could
say no more ; but was it not beautiful of her,
Marjory, to try and comfort him ?

*' He is a little quieter now, and I never
leave them  my father says that I must not ;
and, indeed, I am too thankful to be here.

" Poor Barry frets sorely ; he thinks more
of his mother than himself. If she could only
cry, but the tears will not come  and I fear she
does not sleep. She spends hours looking at
Lilies, and sometimes I see her smile ; I think
she is following her to Paradise, then. I like to
hear her say, ' How happy she looks, Margaret
!' for I know she has forgotten herself
then. Dear Marjory, I think I have told you

everything. Barry sends his love, and says you
must come to them by-and-by.

*' Yours lovingly and sorrowfully,
'' Margaret." '

My dear he said very quietly, when he had
finished, ' this is a beautiful letter that Margaret
has written. I am glad these poor souls have
so faithful a friend to minister to them in their
trouble. Now you must listen to me, dear
child ! I want you to lie down on that couch
and try to compose yourself. I shall leave you
alone a little, that you may gain strength to talk
to me by-and-by, for there is a long story that
you have to tell me, and you cannot speak tome
now. " The righteous are taken away from
the evil to come \' try to remember that, and
you will mourn less bitterly for your friend.
No one shall disturb you ; when Anne comes in
I wall tell her all that is necessary;' and then,
looking at her very kindly, he closed the door,
and left her alone in the evening sunshine.

It was good of him to leave her ; she felt
that for a little while she could do nothing but
weep. She remembered how solemnly she and
Lilies had kissed each other on the platform

that miserable morning. How Lilies had stood
there with the wind blowing her grey gown
about her feet, and a smile on her sweet face.
Do not lose hope, my darling!' that was what
she said. And as the vivid recollection came
to Marjory, she thanked God in her heart that
tie had spared Lilies that terrible pain. * I
am glad of it now, Sissie,' she said, speaking
half aloud ; ' if it were all to come over again,
I would not do otherwise.'

Presently the door opened noiselessly, and
Anne entered, bearing a little tray ; there were
tears in her kind eyes as she set it down and
kissed Marjory.

Capel says if you love him, you will take
what he has sent you ; it will give you strength
for the talk you are to have together. I am
not to speak to you, Marjory ; he will not have
you disturbed. But I must say one w-ord,
dearest  God knows best : we must believe that,
even when His hand lies heavy upon us.'

Yes,' whispered Marjory, pressing her cheek
for a moment against Anne's ; and then, as Mr.
Erere's will was law to her, she ate and drank
obediently.

And she felt, as all of us must feel, that food

given by loving hands in the first hours of a
bitter grief is a sort of sacrament  strengthening
not only the body, but the soul, and
refreshing it. Half an hour later, when Mr.
Frere came back to her, he found Marjory
seated by the open window, waiting for him.
She held out both her hands to him, and said in
an unsteady voice :

I am quite ready to tell you all you wish to
know ; it will be an untold relief to get rid of
this terrible secret. But there is something
you must read first;' and she put Mrs. Chard's
confession into his hands.

He took it from her gravely, and began to
read. But before he had turned the first page,
his hand sought hers, and held it firmly ; and
then, without a word, he went on to the end.

Now you must go back to the beginning,
and tell me all that happened to you at ,'
he said, in the same quiet dispassionate
voice ; and she obeyed him as submissively asa
little child.

Perhaps he guessed the relief that it would
be to her to pour out without stint or reserve
the whole of that bitter story ; for he never
interrupted her by a single question  only an

encouraging pressure of the hand he still held
so closely spoke of his absorbing interest.

But, indeed, no question was needed. Marjory
told it all, without omitting a single point :
Lilies's accident ; Mrs. Chard's self-betrayal ;
the long miserable scene that had passed
between them ; Mrs. Carr's arrival ; and
Marjory's yearning affection for her true
mother.

She told him of her life at St. Kilda's  her
love for Barry  her feverish nights and restless
days ; the anguish she endured at witnessing
that perfect love that subsisted between her
mother and Lilies ; the calm kindness to the
young guest that fretted her so sorely, and kept
her at a distance ; her growing hopelessness of
results as Lilies's fragile health and sensitive
temperament became apparent to her.

Then she narrated to him the account of Mrs.
Chard's death, and Lilies's sweet pity for her
old nurse. But when she came to the evening
of the storm, and those terrible hours during
which she was making up her mind to become
an exile for Lilies's sake, her voice broke, and
she could hardly finish for the sobbing breaths
that hindered her utterance.

If she could only have seen the love and
pity in the eyes that never left her face  strongman
as he was, he could hardly suppress his
emotion as he listened. What generous folly had
this girl wrought ! what madness of heroism 
what reckless self-sacrifice had she contemplated
that would have Wrecked them all, and
brought them to utter confusion !

Marjory,' he said, when she had finished,
all is clear between us now. The last shadow
has fled. Thank you, my darling, for telling
me all. It was generous, it was dear of you to
act as you did ; but, my child, it was the most
terrible mistake you ever made. If you had
only come to me and told me all ! Marjory, I
tremble to think of what might have happened
but for the news we have received today.'


 What do you mean T she asked in a
frightened tone, for he spoke with a gravity that
was almost solemn.

My child,' he said, caressing her, 'what
did I tell you ? That you were so young and
ignorant of the world. Well, was I not right
in saying this ? We are engaged, and on New
Year's Day we are to be married. And you

would have been married under a false name 
and Lilies also !'

Oh, Capel !' hiding her face in her hands, as
the meaning of his words crossed her mind for
the first time. But with all his gentleness and
pity for her, he would not spare her ; she must
realize the danger she had escaped.

We were to be married by banns,' he went
on quietly, ' and Lilies Marjory Carr would have
been married under the name of Marjory Lilies
Deane, and the marriage would not have been
legal ; and Lilies too  well, there would have
been the same mistake, and what a complication
that would have been !'

Oh, Capel ! please do not say any more.
I never thought  I never dreamt of that.'

Why, no,' he returned slowly ; * I suppose
not;' but he was smiling now. ' A man would
not have committed such an error, unless he
did it purposely, out of sheer wickedness, and
wished to render his engagement null and void.
Only a silly enthusiastic girl could have been
guilty of such a piece of madness.'

You are hard on me,' she whispered, without
lifting her face ; it was burning now.

I do not mean to be that,' he said, with

great gentleness. * I am afraid it has made me
love you all the more. I only want to show
you where you have erred. You were trying to
act the part of Providence  to decide on your
own destiny and the destiny of others. Marjory,
what does the Bile tell us ? '' We may
not do evil that good may come." It would
have been surely an evil to act a lie all your
life.'

I did it for the best she said very piteously.

I know it,' he returned, with some emotion.
You listened to your generous foolish heart,
and never heard the prompting of the inner
voice, This is the way, walk ye in it  the
way of truth, of perfect upright dealing, of
doing unto others as we would they should do
unto us." '

'Oh!' she said, bursting into tears at this,
you are disappointed in me. You will never
think the same of me again.'

His only answer was to take her in hie arms,
and soothe her as though she were a little child
who had wandered out of the path. He said a
few words to her by-and-by that completely
satisfied her and removed her rankling doubts
for ever.

Capel,' she said presently, ' you will take
me to my mother, will you not ?'

I have thought of that,' he returned. ' Dear,
of course you shall go, and I will take you. Do
you think I shall trust you by yourself again ?'

And we will go tomorrow ?'

No, not tomorrow, or the next day. We
have your mother to consider, Marjory. Leave
her alone in peace with her dead. Margaret
will be with her. She will not want sympathy.
Let Lilies be laid in her grave first, and then
we will go. It will be a shock to your mother,
you must remember that. She may not be fit

to bear it.'

Marjory was a little sorrowful at this decision,
but he would not listen to another word. Anne
would be wondering at this long conversation, he
said, and he thought it was time that she should
be enlightened. Marjory was too weary to bear
any more, and he begged her, in a voice that
admitted of no appeal, to leave him with his
sister and to go to her own room.

Anne shall come and wish you good-night,'
he finished. And Marjory was thankful that his
kindness shielded her from the trial of repeating
it all to Anne.

But it was late, and Marjory was sinking into
a doze before Anne came to her bedside. If her
room had not been dark with the summer twilight
she would have seen how pale Anne's face
was, and how red her eyes were with weeping.

Her voice faltered a little as she bade her
good-night.

You will try to sleep, Marjory dear ? I am
thankful, for your sake, that your mother is
living. I am quite ready to give up my child !'
she brought out the words bravely, but a little
huskiness betrayed her.

Anne, you have been crying!' putting her
arms round her neck. ' Do you think that
finding my mother will make any difference
between us ? Shall I be less your child because
I am hers ? Never, never ! How can you
accuse me of such ingratitude, when you took
me, a miserable little child, out of the snow that
Christmas Eve, into the warmth of your heart
and home ! It will be Mizpah always with us,
Anne;' and the gentle creature listened to the
girlish voice that pleaded with her so lovingly,
and was comforted.

VOL. III. 57

WILL YOU FORGIVE YOUR MOTHER T

NE bright September afternoon, Marjory
and Mr. Frere were walking up
the long, ugly street of St. Kilda.
They had passed the night at York, where they
had left Anne to admire the grand old Minster
at her leisure ; and there she meant quietly to
await their return.

No one but Margaret knew of their expected
arrival, and she had begged them to call at her
father's house before they went on to Mavis -
bank. A note from her lay at that moment in
Mr. Frere's pocket.

There is something I must tell you,' it said.
Will you contrive to be alone with me for a
few minutes ? I have asked my father to detain
Marjory on some excuse. I told him there was

a little business that you and I lead to settle
together.'

It was these few words that were making Mr.
Frere secretly anxious ; but his cheerfulness
returned the moment Marjory spoke to him.

There is Margaret she exclaimed, * watching
for us !' And her steps quickened a little,
and the next moment Margaret came out and
welcomed them.

She was dressed in mourning, and her grand
face looked thinner and paler than it used to
look ; but the lovely, short-sighted eyes had
their old tranquil expression.

Dear Marjory,' she said, embracing her,
this is a trying ordeal for you. It was good
of you to write and tell me the truth ; you knew
it would be sacred to me, and that I should keep
it even from my father.'

Mr. Frere wished me to write,' returned
Marjory, with downcast eyes. ' He said we
might need your help, and that he knew you
were to be trusted.'

She gave him one of her sweet smiles, and
then she turned again to Marjory,

Your mother is better ; we hope she is
better. She cried a great deal yesterday, and that

572

has been a relief; and we think she slept last
night. Barry is so good to her  he hardly ever
leaves her. It was seeing him come in on his
crutches for the first time that broke her down.
She said how happy it would have made Lilies,
and then she was hysterical. Oh, Marjory, her
patience and submission are something wonderful
they teach us all a lesson

There is Dr. Ainslie, Marjory,' observed Mr.
Frere at this moment. * You know you wanted
to speak to him. Will you not join him in the
garden ?'

Oh yes !' she returned, drawing her eyes, aud
quite oblivious of the significant look that passed
between him and Margaret, as he followed her
into the parlour.

Well,' he observed, as soon as they were
alone, and Margaret had carefully closed the
door, * I hope you have nothing to tell me that
Marjory may not know.'

 That is for you to decide,' she returned, in a
trembling voice. ' Mr. Frere, no one knows of
this but myself  no one will ever know, if yon
should will silence. This is what I took out of
Lilies's dead hand that afternoon in the wood.'

He looked at her with a sort of dread in his

eyes as lie took the paper from lier. It was
torn across and was much soiled, but the writing
was perfectly legible. It was Miriam Chard's
handwriting  he knew that at once.

My beloved and deeply-wronged mistress,'
it said, ' what you are about to read is the confession
of a dying woman. May Heaven forgive
the lifelong deceit that I have practised on you !
Lilies is my child, not yours ; she is my own
daughter, and Eobert Deane  not Philip Carr 

was her father ' And here the fragment

broke off.

Good heavens !' he exclaimed; and then he
looked at Margaret, and a paleness crossed his
face. * It was Marjory who dropped that,' he
said ; ' she told me she tore it in atoms, not
knowing what she did; and Lilies found it,
and  my God !  it must have killed
her !'

Yes, but she had heart disease,' she replied
soothingly. * My father tells me now that she
might have died any night in her sleep. Marjory
must never know this  you would not wish
it?'

No, no !' with a shudder. * Give it to me;
I will destroy it. You have acted wisely, Miss

Ainslie : I owe you deep gratitude for this !'
And he held out his hand to her.

She had died, that happy creature, of a broken
heart. The shock that Marjory would so generously
have spared her had been too great for the
feeble frame to bear. The sun was shining, the
birds were singing round her as she read her
death-warrant ; one moment's incredulous agony
one shuddering sifh  and then the merciful
angel we call Death drew near and took her in
his arms to rest.

At this moment they heard Marjory's footsteps
in the passage, and Mr. Frere turned to
the window a moment to recover himself; but
Margaret met her with a smile on her face, and
talked to her in a low voice. In a few minutes
he joined them.

We must go now, Marjory. Miss Ainslie,
you have promised to follow us : do not belong;
we may be in need of your friendly help,
if our task prove difficult.'

 It will be difficult,' she answered. * I have
told Marjory so, and I have begged her to be
very careful. At first it will be a shock ; the
pleasure and the comfort will come later.'

You are right,' he returned gravely; and

then he took Marjory's hand and placed it on
his arm. She was very brave, very patient ;
but he knew what she was feeling. * Dear he
said very tenderly, as the gates of Mavisbank
came in view, and he felt her hand tremble,
you will try to control yourself, for your poor
mother's sake, will you not ?'

I will try,' she answered, but her lips were
very pale ; and then they walked up the garden
in silence.

The door stood wide open ; the afternoon
sunshine was streaming through the old hall,
lighting up every nook and corner, and falling
full on the solitary figure seated beside the
desolate hearth.

For one moment Marjory caught Mr. Frere's
arm, as though her courage failed her.

Mrs. Carr did not turn her head; the sound
of their footsteps had not reached her. She
was sitting in her high-backed chair, with her
back to the window ; and in her deep mourning,
and stately immobility, she looked like some
bereaved queen. Her hands lay folded together
in her lap, and her beautiful features looked as
though they were chiselled in marble, they were
BO fixed and impassive.

Hush, dear! we must not startle her,'
whispered Mr. Frere anxiously ; and he would
have detained the girl, but she broke away from
him with a choking sigh.

Do not look so,' she cried, holding out her
hands most piteously ; ' it breaks my heart to
see you sitting there alone ! Dear mother,
darling mother, I have come to comfort you ;
Capel has brought me.'

The word * mother ' seemed to rouse her, and
she looked from one to the other with a sort of
dull surprise. There was a faint trembling  a
convulsive movement  in the throat, and she
said in a toneless far-off voice :

*Is that you, Marjory ? This is kind of you,
my dear, to come and see me in my trouble  and
Mr. Frere, too. I wish Margaret were here, that
she could welcome you properly. I am very
weak, and not quite myself, and I do not understand
what I ought to say to people.'

Dear mother,' returned Marjory, kissing her
hands passionately, * there is no need for you to
talk to us. It is enough for me to be with you
and wait on you.'

Mrs. Carr raised her eyes to Mr. Frere, ashe
stood beside her. They had a dim faded

look, like the eyes of a person who had not
slept.

Yhy does she call me that ? Tell her not
to call me that ; it hurts me, for I have no
daughter now. No, that was wrong,' speaking
in the same gentle mechanical way. ' I have
my child still, though I cannot see her sweet
face. But she calls me mother sometimes. I
can hear her voice plainly as I sit here in the
evening. '' Mother, my own mother !" oh,
quite plainly I hear it !'

Dear Mrs. Carr,' he returned, and there was
something in his voice that held her attention,
will you try and listen to me a moment ? You
have lost one child  yes, it is true, her bright
young life is ended in this world  but God is
very merciful, and you have still a daughter
living ; and Marjory is that daughter.'

She shook her head mournfully, as though
she failed to understand him. She thought,
poor woman ! that they were trjang to comfort
her by offering her the loving service of the
girl who was still clasping her hands.

No one can take her place ; that is empty
for ever,' she replied.

Can you bear a great shock?' was his answer

to this. * Can you forgive a dead woman's
miserable scheming and lifelong deceit ? Mrs.
(carr, you trusted Miriam Chard with your child,
but she betrayed your confidence. It was your
child, not hers, that she lost. It was her child
that you took to your heart, and brought up as
your own daughter. Your adopted daughter
lies in her grave ; your own child, Lilies Marjory,
is holding your hand now.'

He had spoken with slow, quiet emphasis,
that every word should sink into her brain.
He had motioned Marjory to be silent, and had
spoken himself. But for a moment he was
terrified at the result of his words. Her eyes
had not left his face, but as he went on a grey
veil seemed to creep over her features. As he
stopped, she fell back in her chair, as though
she were fainting, only her eyes remained wide
open. It was with intense relief that he heard
Margaret's footsteps on the gravel ; Mrs. Carr
seemed to hear them too.

Margaret,' she said, in a strange voice,
come here. Why have you left me ? Do you
know what they were saying, and what they expect
me to believe ?'

Yes, I know,' returned Margaret, in her fall

grave tone. * I know how good God has been
to you, and how grateful you will be for this
mercy presently ! Marjory,' putting her
strong hands on her and lifting her to her
feet as though she where a child, I think it
will be better if you leave your mother to us
for a little while. See how bewildered she
is, and how feeble with her great trouble ;
and she is not able to speak to you.'

Yes, leave us, Marjory,' acquiesced Mr.
Frere, feeling how wise Margaret was in this ;
but Marjory still lingered. She cast a look of
anguish at her mother ; to their surprise, Mrs.
Carr answered the look.

Go, my child !' she said very gently ; * you
shall come back to me as soon as I am able to
bear it.'

She held out her hand to her, with a gesture
that seemed to dismiss her ; and poor Marjory
turned away, feeling as though her heart were
broken.

Mr. Frere followed her to the door.

'Do not fret,' he whispered; 'it will take
time, and she is very ill. Go to Barry, my darling
! your news will make him so happy.'

It was well that they had sent Marjory

away, for a most painful hour followed her
dismissal. For a long time Mrs. Carr refused
to believe their statement ; Miriam's confession
was read to her, but it seemed as though
her passionate love for Lilies kept her incredulous.


Mr. Frere was very patient with her. He told
her of Marjory's generosity and silence ; how
she had lived under her mother's roof as a guest,
that she might teach them to love her ; he reminded
her of that evening in the wood, and
how Marjory had told them her own story ; and
liow she had made herself an exile, and had
gone away for Lilies's sake.

 It was for Lilies!' he finished ; and it was not
until he had said this again and again that the
stony incredulity vanished.

She went away for Lilies !' she said, and her
lips quivered ; but before they could answer, she
burst into bitter weeping. They understood
her to say, between her sobs, that she blessed
God that He had taken her darling, for she
could not have lived, knowing this. Then they
heard her say that she was a miserable inhuman
mother, who did not know her own child ; that
Philip's child had all these years been an outcast

and stranger. And then she put up her hands
as though she were praying, her Hps moved convulsively,
and tears rolled down her cheeks. Was
it for herself she was praying ? they wondered ;
was she asking that the bitter wrong might be
made right ; and the power of loving this
unknown child might be given to her ? * Lilies
loved her  and it was for Lilies she did
it they heard her murmur as she leant
back in her chair, with closed eyelids and a
spent exhausted look on her face.

You may leave her to me,' Margaret whispered
;  my father will be here presently, and he
will give her a composing draught. The worst
is over now, but we must give her time to
recover; the shock has been terrible.' And then
she said in a still lower voice, ' Marjory must be
patient ; any more excitement would endanger
the brain.'

Poor child!' he sighed, as he went in search
of her; 'it is a miserable business altogether.
She will have need of patience for some time
yet. Mrs. Carr is ill, very ill; she will be better
left alone with Margaret.'

He found Marjory sitting by Barry's couch ;
their hands were tightly locked together. At Mr.

Frere's appearance the poor lad hailed him
rapturously.

Isn't it almost too good to be true ?' he exclaimed,
his eyes brilliant with joy. * Now I
know why she was always so good to me, and
why I was so fond of her. It is not that I
ever forget Lilies,' with a boyish sob ; ' but
it makes me less unhappy to know Marjory is
my own sister, and that my hither will have
some one to comfort her.'

Barry, will you spare her to me a little
while T he said presently, when they had
talked together a little. And when Barry had
agreed to this reluctantly, he took her out into
the fresh evening air, and told her all that had
passed.

Marjory,' he said, looking down into her
sorrowful face with great tenderness ; * it
was far better for you to go away as you did ;
you will have to be patient a little longer, for
Miss Ainslie seems to fear the effect of anymore
excitement at present. We will stay
here quietly, darling, and we will bide our time ;
and we will send for Anne to join us  that
was a kind thought of Barry's. And you will be
good and patient until the cloud lifts from your

mother's brain, and she can realize all we have
told her.' And Marjory promised, with many
tears, that she would do her best.

It was a great comfort to them all when
Anne arrived. Barry took a great fancy to her,
and he allowed Marjory to leave him with
tolerable grace when Miss Frere took her place.
She told him those long walks and drives with
Capel were indispensable to his sister just now;
they quieted her, and assuaged her restlessness,
when day after day passed, and she was not
summoned to her mother's room, where Margaret
alone kept watch and ward.

Margaret spoke very little of her patient to
anyone. She lay very quiet, almost in a
stupor, she told them ; but she did not add
that a strange expression crossed her face every
time Marjory's footstep passed her door.
Neither did she repeat to them the words that
now and then escaped her lips.

 She thinks  she does nothing but think,' she
said once to Mr. Frere. * But for narcotics
she would not sleep at all. There are streaks
of grey in her hair  Marjory will be sorry for
that.'

But one evening, when Marjory had retired

to her room for the night, there was a hasty
knock at her door, and Margaret entered.

Marjory,' she said, and there was a flush
on her face ; ' would you come with me a
moment ? Your mother is restless to-night ;
and I find there is something on her mind. She
wants to see the mark on your arm that Mr.
Pere described. Will you show it to her ?
You need not speak to her unless she speaks to
you

Marjory was standing by the toilet table brushing
out her long brown hair. As Margaret spoke,
the ivory brush dropped from her hand. Her
mother had asked to see her at last.

You must come just as you are,' went on
Margaret, wondering a little over Marjory's
beauty, as she stood there with her white
dressing-gown falling to her feet, and her magnificent
hair looking like a dusky veil in the dim
light. ' I think '  very softly  *you will remind
her now of the little child she lost eighteen
years ago.'

Margaret hardly knew why she said this, except
that there was something so pure and childlike
in Marjory's appearance to-night.

Marjory did not answer, as lie followed her

with a beating heart across the passage. As she
entered the room her eyes turned involuntarily
to the door that led into Lilies's room. It was
closed for the first time ; but the mother's face
was turned to it, as she lay supported with
pillows. She had lain thus day and night, but
at the sound of Marjory's footstep she moved
slightly, and a look of recognition came into
her eyes.

Marjory bent over her. How white and
sunken the face was, and yet there was a faint
welcoming smile on the lips.

You wished to see this, dear mother said
Marjory gently, baring her white arm that the
strange mark might be visible. Margaret was
holding a candle behind her. Mrs. Carr raised
herself with difficulty, and to Marjory's intense
surprise she felt her mother's lips pressed against
her arm.

'It is true,' she said, a little faintly. 'Marjory,
will you forgive your mother for her long
doubt ?' She held out her arms as she spoke,
and as Marjory nestled into them, she felt her
mother's kisses on her hair and face.

You may leave us, Margaret,* she said
presently. ' My child will take care of me a

VOL. III. 58

little vliile.' And when they were left alone
she motioned Marjory to take the seat beside
her, and drew her face down on the pillow.

I am so weak,' she sighed, * but I like to
feel you near me. I have wanted you all these
days, Marjory ; but I had no strength to send
for you. Can you forgive me, my child, for my
sin of ignorance all these years ?'

Mother,' she remonstrated, ' what is thereto
forgive ? Let me love you and wait on you
that is all I ask now.' And then she whispered :
Dear Lilies would be very happy to know that
I am here to take care of you.'

A look of deep sadness crossed Mrs. Carr's
face, and then she took her child's hands and
held them to her breast.

I have wronged you,' she said, in a low
voice. ' I gave her all my mother's love. God
knows I almost worshipped her. And now,
what am I to do for you, my child ?' speaking
almost with the agony of the patriarch when
Esau wept and pleaded for a blessing. The
bitterness of this self reproach touched Marjory's
generous soul.

Mother !' she said passionately, * you are
not to trouble about your want of love for mc.



I know you are fond of me  you always have
been ; and I will not take Lilies's place. I am
not jealous of your love for her. Dear mother,
you shall love her as much as ever, and by-and-by
you will love me too.' And as she said
these noble words, she felt her mother's tears
upon her face, and words that were almost a
blessing came to her ears.

God do so to me, and more also, if I do
not love the child I brought into the world.
Be patient, Marjory ; be patient with your
mother, and all will be right !'

582

CONCLUSION.

ORE than two sears had passed since
Lilies's death. It was Christmas Eve,
and a family party were gathered in
Cosy Nook.

A mighty fagot blazed upon the hearth, and
the ruddy gleams lighted up the old hall and
threw crimson reflections through the bay-window
upon the snow.

The carol-singers had been up to Mavis-bank,
and they could hear the boys' voices still
dying away in the distance. Mrs. Carr was
listening to them as she sat in her high-backed
chair.

These two years had left their traces upon
her. There were silver threads now in the
dark hair, and lines on the smooth forehead ;

but the sweet tranquillity of her expression
spoke of strength gained by submission and a
chastened will. In repose, there was still a
look of sadness ; but it passed away when she
spoke.

Anne sat knitting beside her  still the same
blithe busy little soul. Barry still occupied his
couch, but his crutches were always near him,
ready for use ; and he was no longer idle and
suffering. Life meant work to him as well as
to others, and was making him manly and self-reliant.


Mr. Frere was in his favourite attitude on the
rug, declaiming to his women-folk ; but every
now and then he broke off a sentence restlessly,
as though listening for some footsteps that he
missed. As the door opened a subtle change
passed over his face, for there was his wife
crossing the hall in her velvet gown, and in her
arms she held his boy ; and though he made no
movement to meet her, his eyes brightened at
the sight.

Look, mother dear !' cried Marjory, in her
joyous young voice; ' the carol-singers woke the
boy, and now nothing will do but he must comedown
to his grandmother ;' and she placed the

rosy laughing fellow in the arms that were
always ready to receive him.

What does Aunt Anne say to such infringement
of nursery discipline ?' observed Mrs. Carr,
with a loving glance at her daughter.

Anne says,' returned that individual quietly,
that his grandmother will spoil him as much
as she spoils his mother.'

Do I spoil you, Marjory T asked Mrs. Carr,
with a happy smile ; but there was no need for
Marjory to answer, only that long tender look
between them spoke of a perfect understanding
between mother and daughter.

Marjory,' observed Mr. Frere, in his whimsical
way, ' I begin to feel neglected ; and, in
point of fact, so does Barry. There is a preponderance
of females at the present moment
that makes the other sex uneasy.'

Not if we include baby,' interrupted Marjory
audaciously, but she slid her hand in her husband's
arm as she spoke.

He is under age, and I decline to give him a
vote,' returned Mr. Frere scornfully. * A creature
who can only enunciate a single letter of the
alphabet, and is for ever gurgling **Ah, ah !" over
Lis rattle  and of all things I hate rattles  can

hardly be pronounced a reasonable human
creature ; perhaps, beg his father's son, he
may in time develop an inherited precocity of
intellect.'

Poor little darling, I am sure of that !' returned
the young mother proudly.

My dear,' replied Mr. Frere sententiously,
with such parents, such a hope is well authorized
; but, as usual, you have interrupted me,
Marjory. I had taken up my parable on the
subject of mothers-in-law.

The nineteenth century is a reforming age.
We are reforming prisons, lunatic asylums, workhouses,
and the dwellings of the poor. Perhaps
there is a little too much dynamite, but I hope
we may put a stop to that. Well, there is still
an abuse that I should like to reform. I consider
that mothers-in-law have been hardly
used ; they are much spoken against in private
life. Punch has caricatured them mercilessly.
They have become a byword and a terror, so
that many a young man of feeble organization
has eschewed matrimony except with a motherless
orphan. As motherless orphans are not
plentiful, except in workhouses, the world, intime,
will be depopulated.

*Now I visll to write an article on behalf of
this much-abused class of women. As a man and
a husband, I feel my sensibilities awakened
on this point. Good heavens ! may not my
son one day cease to gurgle everlasting 'hall's
V and take to himself a wife ? and then,
Marjory, you will be a mother-in-law yourself.'

Marjory clapped her hands.

Is it not good to hear him, Anne T she said,
with her old merry laugh.

My dear '  with a furtively admiring glance
at her happy face  ' you have broken the flow
of my eloquence. I was going to point out 
not that it matters  that we ourselves were
ready to testify to the excellence of mothers-in-law.
I consider myself fortunate in my own
case. Thanks to your mother, Marjory, we
have two homes; wien we are tired of Muriel's
End, we decamp with the baby, his rattles,
Anne, and the devoted Mackay, and take up our
abode at Mavisbank. No one gives us notice
to quit ; no one hints that our absence would
be desirable. When we hold up our finger,
your mother appears at Muriel's End ; and she
is so pleasant  she falls in so entirely with my
habits  that I forget she is not my own mother ;

in fact, I wish she were  at least Come,

now, my meaning is involved, and Barry is
squaring his fists at me.'

Hush, love!' whispered Marjory; ' I think I
hear footsteps  that must be Harrel'

Yes ; when they opened the door, it was
Hurrell, and Lassie was with him. He came
among them looking a little graver, a little
older, and a little browner ; for since Mrs.
Wentworth's death  eighteen months ago  he
had travelled much.

Mother,' he said, as he sat down by Mrs.
Carr  for he had called her by this name for a
long time  ' I have done what you wished ;
and you were right, as you always are  Margaret
has promised to be my wife.'

Dear Hurrell!' she replied, lifting up her
face to kiss him ; but though there were tears
in her eyes, there was no sadness at all in her
voice. ' You have made me very happy. Margaret
has loved you all her life ; and, but for seeing
my child'  here she faltered a little  'you
would have married her long ago.'

Yes,' he said gravely ; ' I know that now.'

Hush !' broke in Marjory's clear voice;
there are the carol-singers coming back from

the Vicarage. Let us go to the door, Capel;'
and she drew him gently to the threshold.

Nowel, Nowel !' sang the children's voices ;
outside, the moonbeams shone on the crisp,
hard snow.

Anne, who had followed them, felt her hand
taken ; with the other, Marjory was clinging to
her husband's arm.

Do you remember,' she said, in a low voice,
the little child that came to you both out from
the snow ?'

God bless the day that brought us that little
child !' returned Mr. Frere fervently, in a still
lower tone.

But Anne heard it, and said:
Amen !'

