CHAPTER I.

FIVE o'clock tea.

IVE o'clock tea was a great institution
in Oldfiekl.

It was a form of refreshment to
which the female inhabitants of that delightful
place were strongly addicted. In vain did Dr.
Weatherbyby, the great authority in all that
concerned the health of the neighbourhood,
lift up his voice against the mild feminine
dram-drinking of these modem days, denouncing
it in no measured terms ; the ladies of
Oldfiekl listened incredulously, and, softly
quoting Cowper's lines as to the  cup that

VOL. 1.



cheers and not inebriates,' still presided over
their dainty little tea-tables, and vied with
each other in the beauty of their china, and
the flavour of their highly-scented Pekoe.

In spite of Dr. Weatherbyby's sneers and
innuendoes, a great deal of valuable time was
spent in lingering in one or another of the
pleasant drawing-rooms of the place. As the
magic hour approached, people dropped in
casually. The elder ladies sipped their tea
and gossiped softly; the younger ones, if it
were summer-time, strolled out through the
open windows into the garden. Most of the
houses had tennis-grounds, and it was quite
an understood thing that a game should be
played before they separated.

With some few exceptions the inhabitants
of Oldfield were wealthy people. Handsome
houses standing in their own grounds were
dotted here and there among the lanes and
country roads. Some of the big houses belonged
to very big people indeed ; but these
were aristocrats who only lived in their
country houses a few months in the year,
and whose presence added more to the dignity
than to the hilarity of the neighbourhood.

With these exceptions, the Oldfield people
were highly gregarious and hospitable ; in
spite of a few peculiarities, they had their
good points ; a great deal of gossip prevailed,
but it was in the main harmless and good-natured.
There was a wonderful simplicity
of dress, too, which in these days might be
termed a cardinal virtue. The girls wore
their fresh cambric and plain straw hats ; no
one seemed to think it necessary to put on
smart clothing when they wished to visit their
friends. People said this Arcadian simplicity
was just as studied ; nevertheless it showed
perfection of taste and a just appreciation of
things.

The house that was considered the most
attractive in Oldfield, and where, on summer
afternoons, the sound of youthful voices and
laughter were the loudest, was Glen Cottage,
a small white house adjoining the long village
street, belonging to a certain Mrs. Challenger,
who lived here with her three daughters.

This may be accounted strange in the first
instance, since the Challoners were people of
the most limited income  an income so small
that nothing but the most modest of 



attainments could be furnished to their friends ;
very different to their neighbours at Longmead,
the large white house adjoining, where
sumptuous dinners and regular evening parties
were given in the dark days when pleasures
were few and tennis impossible.

People said it was very good-natured of
the Maynes ; but then when there is an only
child in the case, an honest, pleasure-loving,
gay young fellow, on whom his parents do at,
what is it they will not do to please their
own flesh and blood ; and, as young Richard
Mayne  or Dick, as he was always called 
loved all such festive gatherings, Mrs. Mayne
loved them too; and her husband tried to
persuade himself that his tastes lay in the
same direction, only reserving certain groans
for private use, that Dick could not be
happy without a houseful of young people.

But no such entertainments were possible
at Glen Cottage ; nevertheless the youth of
the neighbourhood flocked eagerly into the
pleasant drawing-room where Mrs. Challenger
sat tranquilly summer and winter to welcome
her friends, or betook themselves through the
open French windows into the old-fashioned

garden, in which mother and daughters took
such pride.

On hot afternoons the tea-table was spread
under an acacia-tree ; low wicker chairs were
brought out, and rugs spread on the lawn ;
and Nan and her sisters dispensed strawberries
and cream, with the delicious home-made
bread and butter ; while Mrs. Challoner sat
among a few chosen spirits knitting and talking
in her pleasant low-toned voice, quite content
that the burthen of responsibility should rest
upon her daughters.

Mrs. Challoner always smiled when people
told her that she ought to be proud of her
girls. No daughters were ever so much to
their mother as hers ; she simply lived in and
for them ; she saw with their eyes, thought
with their thoughts  was hardly herself at
all, but Nan and Philos and Dulce, each by
turns.

Long ago they had grown up to her
growth. Mrs. Shallower's nature was hardly
a self-sufficing one. During her husband's
lifetime she had been braced by his influence
and cheered by his example, and had sought
to guide her children according to his

directions ; in a word, his manly strength had
so supported her that no one, not even her
shrewd young daughters, guessed at the interior
weakness.

When her stay was removed, Mrs. Challoner
ceased to guide, and came down to her children's
level. She was more like their sister
than their mother, people said ; and yet no
mother was more cherished than she.

Her very weakness made her sacred in her
daughters' eyes ; her widowhood, and a certain
failure of health, made her the subject of their
choicest care.

It could not be said that there was much
amiss, but years ago a doctor whom Mrs.
Challoner had consulted had looked grave,
and mentioned the name of a disease of which
certain symptoms reminded him. There was
no ground for present apprehension; the
whole thing was very shadowy and unsubstantial
 a mere hint  a question of care ;
nevertheless the word had been said, and the
mischief done.

From that time Mrs. Challoner was wont
to speak gloomily of her health, as of one
doomed. She was by nature languid and lymphatic,

but now her languor increased ; always
averse to effort, she now left all action to her
daughters. It was they who decided and
regulated the affairs of their modest household,
and rarely were such wise young
rulers to be found in girls of their age.
Mrs. Challoner merely acquiesced, for in Glen
Cottage there was seldom a dissentient voice,
unless it were that of Dorothy, who had been
Dulce's nurse, and took upon herself the airs
of an old servant who could not be replaced.

They were all pretty girls, the three Misses
Challoner, but Nan was spar excellence the
prettiest. No one could deny that fact who
saw them together. Her features where more
regular than her sisters', and her colour more
transparent. She was tall, too, and her
figure had a certain willowy grace that was
most uncommon ; but what attracted people
most was a frankness and unconsciousness of
manner that was perfectly charming.

Phillis, the second sister, was not absolutely
pretty, perhaps, but she was nice-looking,
and there was something in her expression
that made people say she was clever ; she
could talk on occasions with a fluency that

was quite surprising, and that would cast
Nan into the shade. * If I were only as clever
as Phillis !' Nan would sigh.

Then there was Dulce, who was only just
eighteen, and whom her sisters treated as the
family pet ; who was light and small and
nimble in her movements, and looked even
younger than she really was.

Nobody ever noticed if Dulce were pretty ;
no one questioned if her features were regular
or not, or cared to do such a thing. Only
when she smiled, the prettiest dimple
came into her cheek, and her eyes had a
fearless childlike look in them ; for the rest,
she was just Dulce.

The good-looking daughters of a good-looking
mother, as somebody called them ;
and there was no denying Mrs. Challoner was
still wonderfully well-preserved, and in spite
of her languor and invalid airs a very pretty
woman.

Five o'clock tea had long been over at the
cottage this afternoon, and a somewhat lengthy
game of tennis had followed ; after which the
visitors had dispersed as usual, and the girls
had come in to prepare for the half-past

seven o'clock dinner  for Glen Cottage followed
the fashion of its richer neighbours,
and set out its frugal meal with a proper
accompaniment of flower-vases and evening
toilette.

The three sisters came up the lawn together,
but Nan carried her racquet a little
languidly  she looked a trifle grave.

Mrs. Challoner laid down her knitting and
looked at them, and then she regarded her
watch plaintively.

Is it late, mother ?' asked Nan, who never
missed any of her mother's movements. ' Ten
minutes past seven  no wonder the afternoon
seemed long.'

No one found it long but Nan observed
Dulce, with an arch glance at her sister, at
which Nan slightly coloured, but took no
further notice. * By-the-bye,' she continued,
as though struck by a sudden recollection,
what can have become of Dick this afternoon
? he so seldom fails us without telling
us beforehand.'

That will soon be explained,' observed
Phillis oracularly, as the gate-bell sounded,
and was immediately followed by sharp footsteps

on the gravel, and the unceremonious
entrance of a young man through the open
window.

Better late than never exclaimed two
of the girls. Nan said, * Why, what has
made you play truant, Dick ?' in a slightly
injured voice. But Mrs. Challoner merely
smiled at him, and said nothing  young men
were her natural enemies, and she knew it.
She was civil to them and endured their company,
and that was all.

Dick Mayne was not a formidable-looking
individual ; he was a strong, thick-set young
fellow, with broad shoulders, not much above
middle height, and decidedly plain, except in
his mother's eyes ; and she thought even Dick's
sandy hair beautiful.

But in spite of his plainness he was a pleasant,
well-bred young fellow, with a fund of
good-humour and drollery, and a pair of
honest eyes that people learnt to trust. Everyone
liked him, and no one ever said a word
in his dispraise ; and for the rest, he could
tyrannize as royally as any other young man
who is his family's sole blessing.

It was all my ill-luck,' grumbled Dick.

Trevanion of Exeter came over to our place,
and of course the mater pressed him to stay
for luncheon; and then nothing would do hut
a long walk over Mulberry Downs

Why did you not bring him here T interrupted
Dulce, with a pout ; * you tiresome
Dick, when you must know what a godsend
a strange young man is in these wilds !'

 My dear !' reproved her mother.

Oh, but it is true, mamma,' persisted the
outspoken Dulce.  Think how pleased Carrie
and Sophy Paine would have been at the
sight of a fresh face ! it was horrid of you, sir !'

I wanted him to come,' returned the
young man, in a deprecating voice. ' I told him
how awfully jolly it always is here, and that
he would be sure to meet a lot of nice people,
but there was no persuading him : he wanted
a walk and a talk about our fellows. That is
the worst of Trevanion, he always will have
his own way.'

Never mind,' returned Nan pleasantly;
she seemed to have recovered her sprightliness
all at once. * It is very good of you to
come so often ; and we had Mr. Parker and
his cousin to look after the Paiucs.'

Oh yes ! we did very well observed
Phillis tranquilly. ' Mother, now Dick has
come so late, he had better stay

If I only may do so T returned Dick ; but
his inquiry was directed to Nan.

 Oh yes, you may stay,' she remarked
carelessly, as she moved away ; but there was
a little pleased smile on her face that he failed
to see. She nodded pleasantly to him as he
darted forward to open the door. It was Nan
who always dispensed the hospitalities of the
house, whose decision was unalterable. Dick
had learned what it was to be sent about his
business ; only once had he dared to remain
without her sovereign permission, and on that
occasion he had been treated by her with
such dignified politeness that he would rather
have been sent to Coventry.

This evening the fates were propitious, and
Dick understood that the sceptre of favour
was to be extended to him. When the girls
had flitted into the little dusky hall he closed
the door, and sat down happily beside Mrs.
Challoner, to whom he descanted eloquently
of the beauties of Mulberry and the virtues of
Ned Trevanion.

Mrs. Challoner listened placidly as the
knitting-needles flashed between her long
white fingers. She was very fond of Dick,
after her temperate fashion ; she had known
him from a child, and had seen him grow up
amongst them until he had become like a son
of the house. Dick, who had no brothers and
sisters of his own, and whose parents had not
married until they were long past youth, had
adopted brotherly airs with the Challoner
girls ; they called each other by their Christian
names, and he reposed in them the confidences
that young men are wont to give to their
belongings.

With Nan this easy familiarity had of late
merged into something different : a reserve, a
timidity, a subtle suspicion of change had
crept into their intimacy. Nan felt that Dick's
manner had altered, but somehow she liked
it better ; his was always a sweet bountiful
nature, but now it seemed to have deepened
into greater manliness. Dick was growing
older ; Oxford training was polishing him.
After each one of his brief absences Nan saw
a greater change, a more marked deference,
and secretly hoped that no one else noticed it.

When the young undergraduate wrote dutiful
letters home, the longest messages were always
for Nan ; when he carried little offerings of
flowers to his young neighbours, Nan's bouquet
was always the choicest ; he distinguished
her, too, on all occasions by those small nameless
attentions which never fail to please.

Nan kept her own counsel, and never spoke
of these things. She said openly that Dick
was very nice and very much improved, and
that they always missed him sadly during the
Oxford terms ; but she never breathed a
syllable that might make people suspect that
this very ordinary young man with the sandy
hair was more to her than other young men.
Nevertheless Phillis and Dulce knew that such
was the case, and Mrs. Challoner understood
that the most dangerous enemy to her peace
was this lively-spoken Dick.

Dick was very amusing, for he was an
eloquent young fellow ; nevertheless Mrs.
Challoner sighed more than once, and her
attention visibly wandered ; seeing which,
Dick good-humouredly left off talking, and
began inspecting the different articles in Nan's
work-basket.

I am afraid I have given your mother a
headache,' he said, when they were sitting
round the circular table in the low, oddly-shaped
dining-room. There was a corner cutoff,
and the windows were in unexpected
places, which made it unlike other rooms ;
but Dick loved it better than the great diningroom
at Longmead ; and somehow it never
had looked cosier to him than it did this
evening. It was somewhat dark, owing to
the shade of the veranda ; so the lamp was
lighted, and the pleasant scent of roses and
lilies came through the open windows. A
belated wasp hovered round the specimen
glasses that Nan had filled; Dick tried to
make havoc of the enemy with his table-napkin.
The girls' white dresses suited their
fresh young faces. Nan had fastened a crimson
rose in her gown ; Phillis and Dulce had
knots of blue ribbon. ' Trevanion does not
know what he lost by his obstinacy,' thought
Dick, as he glanced round the table.

What were you and the mother discussing
?' asked Dulce curiously.

Dick was telling me about his friend.
He seemed a very superior young man,' returned

Mrs. Challoner. * I suppose you have
asked him for your party next week ?'

Dick turned very red at this question,
Mater asked him, you may trust her for
that. If it were not for father, I think she
would turn the whole house out of the windows
 every day some one fresh is invited.'

How delightful ! and all in your honour,'
exclaimed Dulce mischievously.

That spoils the whole thing,' grumbled
the heir of the Maynes ; ' it is a perfect
shame that a fellow cannot come of age
quietly, without his people making this fuss.
I begin to think I was a fool for my pains to
refuse the ball.'

Yes, indeed ; just because you were afraid
of the supper speeches,' laughed Dulce,
when we all wanted it so.

Never mind,' returned Dick sturdily ; * the
mater shall give us one in the winter, and we
will have Godfrey's band, and I will get all
our fellows to come.'

' That will be delightful,' observed Nan,
and her eyes sparkled  already she saw
herself led out for the first dance by the son
of the house  but Dulce interrupted her.

But all the same I wish Dick had not
been so stupid about it. No one knows what
may happen before the winter. I hate put-off
things.'

A bird in the hand is worth two in the
bush  eh, Miss Dulce ?'

'Yes; indeed, that proverb is truer than
people think,' she replied, with a wise nod of
her head. ' Don't you remember, Nan, when
the Parkers' dance was put off, and then old
Mr. Parker died ; and nearly the same thing
happened with the Tormentors, only it was an
uncle in that case ?'

Moral  never put off a dance, in case
somebody dies.'

Oh, hush, please !' groaned Nan, in a
shocked voice ; * I don't like to hear you talk
about such dreadful things. After all, it is
such delicious weather that I am not sure a
garden-party will not be more enjoyable ; and
you know, Dulce, that we are to dance on the
lawn if we like.'

And supposing it should rain,' put in that
extremely troublesome young person, at which
suggestion Dick looked very gloomy.

In that case I think we must persuade
VOL. I. 2

Mrs. Mayne to clear a room for us returned
Nan cheerfully. ' If your mother consults
me she continued, addressing Dick, who
visibly brightened at this, 'I shall recommend
her to empty the front drawing-room as much
as possible. There is the grand piano, or
the band might come indoors; there will be
plenty of room for the young people, and the
non-dancers can be drafted off into the inner
drawing-room and conservatory.'

'What a head you have!' exclaimed Dick
admiringly ; and Phillis, who had not joined
in the argument, was pleased to observe that
she was quite of Nan's opinion  dancing was
imperative, and if the lawns were wet they
must manage indoors somehow. * It would
never do for people to be bored and listless,'
finished the young lady sententiously, and
such was Phillis's cleverness that it was understood
at once that the oracle had spoken ; but
then it was never known for Nan and Phillis
to differ.

Things being thus amicably arranged, the
rest of the conversation flowed evenly on
every other point, such as the arrangements
of the tennis-matches in the large

meadow, and the exact position of the
marquees; but just as they were leaving the
table Dick said another word to Nan in a
somewhat low voice :

It is all very well, but this sort of thing
does make a fellow feel such a conceited fool.'

If I were you I would not think about it
at all she returned, in her sensible way.
The neighbourhood will expect something of
the kind, and we owe a little to other
people ; then it pleases your mother to make
a fuss, as you call it, and it would be too
ungrateful to disappoint her

Well, perhaps you are right,' he returned
in a slightly mollified tone, for he was a
modest young fellow, and the whole business
had occasioned him some soreness of spirit.
Take it all in all, one has an awful lot to go
through in life : there are the measles, you
know, and whooping-cough, and the dentist,
and one's examination, and no end of unpleasant
things  but to be made by one's own
mother to feel like an idiot for a whole afternoon
! Never mind, it can be got through
somehow,' finished the young philosopher, with
a sigh that sent Nan into a fit of laughter.

22

CHAPTER II.

DICK OBJECTS TO THE MOUNTAINS.

I HALL we have our usual stroll ?'
asked Phillips, as Nan and Dick
joined her at the window.
This was one of the customs at Glen
Cottage. When any such fitting escort offered
itself, the three girls would put on their hats,
and, regardless of the evening dews and their
crisp white dresses, would saunter, under
Dick's guidance, through the quiet village, or
down and up the country roads, 'just fora
breath of air,' as they would say.

It is only fair to Mrs. Challoner's views of
propriety to say, that she would have trusted
her three pretty daughters to no other young
man but Dick ; and of late certain prudential

doubts had crossed her mind. It was all
very well for Phillis to say Dick was Dick,
and there was an end of it. After all he
belonged to the phalanx of her enemies,
those shadowy invaders of her hearth that
threatened her maternal peace. Dick was
not a boy any longer ; he had outgrown his
hobbledehoy ways; the slight sandy moustache
that he so proudly caressed was not a
greater proof of his manhood than the undefinable
change that had passed over his
manners.

Mrs. Challoner began to distrust these
evening strolls, and to turn over in her own
mind various wary pretexts for detaining
Nan on the next occasion.

Just this once, perhaps, it does not matter,'
she murmured to herself, as she composed
herself to her usual nap.

'AVc shall not be long, little mother, so
you must not be dull,' Dulce had said,
kissing her lightly over her eyes. This was
just one of the pleasant fictions at the cottage
one of those graceful little deceptions that
are so harmless in families.

Dulce knew of those placid after-dinner

naps. She knew her mother's eyes would
only unclose when Dorothy brought in the
tea-tray; but she was also conscious that
nothing would displease her mother more than
to notice this habit. "When they lingered
indoors, and talked in whispers so as not to
disturb her, Mrs. Challoner had an extraordinary
facility for striking into the conversation
in a way that was somewhat confusing.

*I don't agree with you at all,' she would
say, in a drowsy voice. * Is it not time for
Dorothy to bring in the tea ? I wish you
would all talk louder. I must be getting a
little deaf, I think, fori don't hear half you say.'

Oh, it was only nonsense talk, mammie,'
Dulce would answer ; and the sisterly chitchat
would recommence, and her mother's
head nid-nodded on the cushions until the
next interruption.

We shall not have many more of these
strolls,' observed Dick regretfully, as they all
walked together through the village, and then
branched off into a long country road, where
the air blew freshly in their faces, and low
mists hung over the meadow-land. Though
it was not quite dark, there was a tiny moon.

and the glimmer of a star or two ; and there
was a pleasant fragrance as of new mown grass.

They were all walking abreast, and keeping
step, and Dick was in the middle, with Nan
beside him. Dulce was hanging on to her
arm, and every now and then breaking into
little snatches of song.

'How I envy you!' exclaimed Phillis.
Think of spending three whole months in
Switzerland ! Oh, you lucky Dick !'

For the Maynes had decided to pass the
long vacation in the Engadine. Some hints
had been dropped that Nan should accompany
them, but Mrs. Challoner had regarded the
invitation with some disfavour, and Mrs.
Mayne had not pressed the point. If only
Nan had kno\\Ti ! but her mother had in this
matter kept her own counsel.

I don't know about that,' dissented Dick ;
he was rather given to argue for the mere
pleasure of opposition. * Mountains and
glaciers are all Cry well in their way ; but
I think, on the whole, I would as soon be here.
You see I am so accustomed to mix with a
lot of fellows, that I am afraid of finding the
pater's sole company rather slow.'

'For shame!' remarked his usual monitress.
But she spoke gently; in her heart
she knew why Dick failed to find the mountains
alluring.

Why could not one of you girls join us ?'
he continued wrathfully. The rogue had
fairly bullied the unwilling Mrs. Mayne into
giving that invitation.

Do ask her, mother ; she will be such a
nice companion for you when the pater and I
are doing our climbing ; do, there's a dear
good soul !' he had coaxed. And the dear
good soul, who was secretly jealous of Nan,
and loved her about as much as mothers
usually love an only son's choice, had bewailed
her hard fate in secret, and had then
stepped over to the cottage with a bland and
cheerful exterior, which grew more cheerful
as Mrs. Challoner's reluctance made itself
felt.

It is not wise ; it will throw them so
much together,' Nan's mother had said. * If
it were only Phillis or Dulce  but you must
have noticed '

Oh yes, I have noticed !' returned Mrs.
Mayne hastily. She was a stout, comely-looking

woman, but beside Mrs. Challoner
she looked like a housekeeper dressed in her
mistress's smart clothes. Mrs. Mattie's
dresses never seemed to belong to her ; it
could not be said that they fitted her ill, but
there was a want of adaptability  a lack of
taste that failed to accord with her florid
style of beauty.

She had been a handsome woman when
Eichard Mayne married her, but a certain
deepening of tints and broadening of contour
had not improved the mistress of Longmead.
Her husband was a decided contrast : he was
a small, wiry man, with sharp features that
expressed a great deal of shrewdness. Dick
had got his sandy hair; but Richard Mayne,
the elder, had not his son's honest, kindly
eyes. Mr. Mayne's were small and twinkling
; he had a way of looking at people
between his half-closed lids, in a manner
half sharp and half-jocular.

He was not vulgar, far from it ; but he had
a homely air about him that spoke of the
self-made man. He was rather fond of telling
people that his father had been in trade in a
small way, and that he himself had been the

sole architect of his fortune. ' Look at
Dick he would say :  he would never have a
penny, that fellow, unless I made it for him ;
he has come into the world to find his bread
ready buttered. I had to be content with
a crust as I could earn it. The lad's a cut
above us both, though he has the good taste
to try and hide it.'

This sagacious speech was very true.
Dick would never have succeeded as a business
man ; he was too full of crotchets and
speculations to be content to run in narrow
grooves. The notion of money-making was
abhorrent to him ; the idea of a city life, with
its hard rubs and drudgery, was utterly distasteful
to him : ' One would have to mix with
such a lot of cads,' he would say. * English,
pure and undefiled, is not always spoken. If
I must work, I would rather have a turn at
law or divinity ; the three old women with the
eye between them knows which.'

It could not be denied that Dick winced a
little at his father's homely speeches ; but in
his heart he was both proud and fond of him,
and was given to assert to a few of his closest
friends ' that, take it all in all, and looking at

other fellows' fathers, he was a rattling good
sort, aDcI no mistake.'

When Mrs. Challoncr had entered her little
protest against her daughter's acceptance of
the invitation, Mrs. Mayne had risen and
kissed her with some effusion as she took her
leave.

It is so nice of you to say this to me ;
of course I should have been pleased, delighted
to have had Nan with us ' (oh, Mrs.
Mayne, fie for shame ! when you avant your
boy to yourself)  * but all the same I think
you are so wise.'

poor child, I am afraid I am refusing hera
great treat,' returned Mrs. Challoner, in a
tone of regret. It was the first time since
her husband's death that she had ever decided
anything without reference to her daughters ;
but for once her maternal fears were up in
arms, and drove her to sudden resolution.

Yes, but, as you observed, it would throw
them so entirely together; and Dick is so
young. Richard was only saying the other
night, that he hoped the boy would not fancy
himself in love for the next two years, as he
did not approve of such early engagements.'

Neither do 1/ returned Mrs. Challoner
quickly. * Nothing would annoy me more
than for one of my daughters to entangle
herself with so young a man. "We know the
world too well for that, Mrs. Mayne. Why,
Dick may fall in and out of love half-a-dozen
times before he really makes up his mind.'

'Ah, that is what Richard says returned
Dick's mother, with a sigh ; in her heart she
was not quite of her husband's opinion. She
remembered how that long waiting wasted
her own youth  waiting for what ? For
comforts that she would gladly have done
without  for a well-furnished house, when
she would have lived happily in the poorest
lodging with the Eichard Mayne who had
won her heart  for whom she would have
toiled and slaved with the self-abrogating
devotion of a loving woman ; only he feared
to have it so.

'* When poverty enters the door, love
flies out of the window;" we had better
make up our minds to wait, Bessie. I can
work better in single than double harness
just now.' That was what he said to her;
and Bessie waited  not till she grew thin,

but stout, and the spirit of her youth was
gone; and it was a sober, middle-aged woman
who took possession of the long-expected
home.

Mrs. Majme loved her husband, but during
that tedious engagement her ardour had a
little cooled, and it may be doubted whether
the younger Eichard was not dearer to her
than his father ; which was ungrateful, to say
the least of it, as Mr. Mayne doated on his
comely wife, and thought Bessie as handsome
now as in the days when she came out smiling
to welcome him  a slim young creature,
with youthful roses in her cheeks.

From this brief conversation it may be
seen that none of the elders quite approved of
this budding affection. Mrs. Challoner, who
belonged to a good old family, found it hard
to forgive the Maynes' lowliness of birth ;
and, though she liked Dick, she thought Nan
could do better for herself. Mr. Mayne pooh-poohed
the whole thing so entirely, that the
women could only speak of it among themselves.


Dick is a clever fellow ; he ought to
many money,* he would say. * I am not a

millionaire, and a little more would be acceptable
;' and though he was always kind to
Nan and her sisters, he was for ever dealing
sly hits at her. * Phillis has the brains of the
family,' he would say ; ' that is the girl for
my money. I call her a vast deal better-looking
than Nan, though people make such
a fuss about the other one ;' a speech he was
never tired of repeating in his son's presence,
and at which Dick snapped his finger metaphorically,
and said nothing.

When Dick wished that one of them were
going to Switzerland, Nan sighed furtively.
Dick was going away for three months, for
the remainder of the long vacation. After next
week they would not see him until Christmas 
nearly six months. A sense of dreariness, as
new as it was strange, swept momentarily
over Nan as she pondered this. The summer
months would be grievously clouded. Dick
had been the moving spirit of all the fun : the
tennis-parties, the pleasant dawdling afternoons,
would lose their zest when he was
away.

She remembered how persistently he had
haunted their footsteps. When they paid visits

to the Manor House, or Gardenhursfc, or
Fitzroy Lodge, Dick was sure to put in an
appearance. People had nicknamed him the
Challoners' Squire ',' but now Nan must go
cureless for the rest of the summer, unless
she took compassion on Stanley Parker, or
that dreadful chatterton, his cousin.

The male population was somewhat sparse
at Oldfield. There were a few Eton boys, and
one or two in that delightful transition age
when youth is most bashful and uninteresting
a sort of unfledged manhood, when the
smooth boyish cheek contradicts the deepened
bass of the voice  an age that has not ceased
to blush, and which is full of aggravating
idiosyncrasies and unexpected angles.

To be sure. Lord Fitzroy was a splendid
specimen of a young guardsman, but he had
lately taken to himself a wife ; and Sir Alfred
Mostyn, who was also somewhat attractive
and a very pleasant fellow, and unattached at
present, had a tiresome habit of rushing off to
Norway, or St. Petersburg, or Niagara, or the
Rocky Mountains, for what he termed sport,
or a lark.

It seems we are very stupid this evening,'

observed Phillis, for Dick had waxed almost
as silent as Nan. ' I think the mother must
nearly have finished her nap, so I propose we
go back and have some tea;' and as Nan
languidly acquiesced, they turned their faces
towards the village again, Dulce still holding
firmly to Nan's arm. By-and-by Dick struck
out in a fresh direction.

I say, don't you wish we could have last
week over again ?'

Yes, oh yes! was it not too delicious!'
from the three girls ; and Nan added, ' I
never enjoyed anything so much in my life,'
in a tone so fervent that Dick was delighted.

"What a brick your mother was, to be sure,
to spare you all !'

Yes ; and she was so dull, poor dear, all
the time we were away. Dorothy gave us
quite a pitiful account when we got home.'

It was a treat one ought to remember all
one's life,' observed Phillis, quite solemnly;
and then ensued a most animated discussion.

The treat to which Phillis alluded had been
simply perfect in the three girls' eyes. Dick,
who never forgot his friends, had so worked
upon his mother that she had consented to

chaperon the three sisters during Commemoration
; and a consent being fairly coaxed out of
Mrs. Challoner, the pain was put into execution.


Dick, who was in the seventh heaven of
delight, found roomy lodgings in the High
Street, in which he installed his enraptured
guests.

The five days that followed were simply
hours snatched out of fairyland to these four
happy young creatures; no wonder envious
looks were cast at Dick as he walked in Christ
Church Meadows with Nan and Dulce, Phillis
bringing up the rear somewhat soberly with
Mrs. Mayne.

One pretty face would content most fellows
his friends grumbled ; ' but when you
come to three, and not his own sisters either,
why, it isn't fair on other folk.' And to Dick
they said, ' Come, it is no use being so awfully
close. Of course we see what's up ; you area
lucky dog. Which is it, Mayne  the pretty
one with the pink and white complexion, or
the quiet one in grey, or the one with the
mischievous eyes T

'Faix, they are all darlings and jewels,

VOL. I. o

bless their party faces !' drawled one young-rogue,
in his favourite brogue. * Here's the
top of the morning to ye, Mayne ; and it is
Mavourneen with the brown eyes and the
trick of the smile like the sunshine's glint
that has stolen poor Paddy's heart

Oh, shut up, you fellows !' returned Dick,
in a disgusted voice. ' "What is the good of
your pretending to be Irish, Hamilton, when
you are a canny Scotchman T

Hoots, man, mind your cleavers ! You need
not grizzle at a creature because he admires a
wee girl that is just beyond the lave  a sonsie
wee thing with a glint in her e'en like diamonds.'


Hamilton, will you leave off this foolery ?'

Nae doubt, nae doubt ; would his honour
pe axing if he pe wrong in the head, pair
thing ? Never mind that, put pe giving me
the skene-thu, or I will fight with broadswords
like a gentleman for the bit lassie ;'
but here a wary movement on Dick's part,
extinguished the torrent of Highland eloquence,
and brought the canny Scotchman to
the ground.
Perfectly oblivious of all these compliments.

the Challenges enjoyed themselves with the
zest of health', happy English girls. They
were simply indefatigable ; poor Mrs. Majoiard
succumbed utterly before the five days were
over.

They saw the procession of boats ; they
were at the flower-show at Worcester; Sunday
afternoon found them in the Broad Walk; and
the next night they were dancing at the University
ball.

They raved about the beauty of Magdalen
cloisters ; they looked down admiringly into the
deer-park ; Addison's Walk became known
to them, and the gardens of St. John's.
Phillis talked learnedly about Cardinal Wolsey
as she stood in Christ Church hall ; and in
the theatre * the young ladies in pink ' invoked
the most continuous cheers.

Can they mean us ?' whispered Dulce,
rather alarmed, to their faithful escort Dick.
I don't see any other pink dresses !'

And Dick said calmly :

Well, I suppose so. Some of those
fellows up there are such a trumpery lot.'

So Dulce grew more reassured.

But the greatest fun of all was the afternoon

spent in Dick's room, when all his
special friends were bidden to five o'clock tea,
over which Nan, in her white gown, presided
so gracefully.

"What a dear, shabby old room it was, with
old-fashioned window-seats, where one could
look down into the quadrangle ! Dick was
an Oriel man, and thought his college superior
even to Magdalen.

It became almost too hot and crowded at
last so many were the invitations given ; but
then, as Dick said afterwards, ' he was such a
soft-hearted beggar, that he could not refuse
the fellows that pestered him for invitations.'

Mrs. Mayne, looking very proud and
happy, sat fanning herself in one of these
windows. Phillis and Dulce were in the
other, attended by that rogue Hamilton, and
half a dozen more. Nan was the centre of
another clique, who hemmed her and the tea-table
in so closely, that Dick had to wander
disconsolately round the outskirts ; there was
no getting a look from Nan that afternoon.

How hot it was! It was a grand coup
when the door opened, and the scout made
his appearance carrying a tray of ices.

*It is well to be Mayne !' half grumbled
young Hamilton, as Dulce took one gratefully
from his hand. ' He is treating us Hke
a prince, instead of the thin bread-and-butter
entertainment he led us to expect. Put
down that tea. Miss Challoner ; I see iced
claret-cup and strawberries in the corner.
There is nothing like being an only child 
doating parents are extremely useful articles.
I am one of ten ; would you believe it ?'
continued the garrulous youth. * When one
has six brothers older than one's self, I will
leave you to imagine the consequences.'

How nice V returned Dulce innocently ;
I have always so longed for a brother. If
it had not been for Dick, we should have had
no one to do things for us.'

Oh, indeed ! Mayne is a sort of adopted
brother !' observed her companion, looking at
her rather sharply.

We have always looked upon him as one.
We do just as we like with him  scold and
tease him, and send him on our errands ;'
which intelligence fairly convinced the envious
Hamilton that the youngest Miss Challoner
was not his friend's fancy.

Dick always recalled that evening with a
sense of pride. How well and gracefully Nan
had fulfilled her duties ! how pretty she had
looked, in spite of her flushed cheeks ! He
had never seen a girl to compare with her 
not he !

They were so full of these delightful reminiscences,
that they were at the cottage
gate before they knew it ; and then Dick
astonished them by refusing to come in. He
had quite forgotten, he said ; but his mother
had asked him to come home early, as she was
not feeling just the thing.

Quite right ; you must do as she wishes,'
returned Nan, dismissing him far too readily,
as he thought : but she said * Good-night !'
with so kind a smile after that, that the
foolish young fellow felt his pulses quicken.

Dick lingered at the corner until the
cottage door was closed, and then he raced
down the Longmead shrubbery, and set the
house-bell pealing.

They are in the library, I suppose ?' he
asked of the butler who admitted him ; and,
on receiving an answer in the affirmative, he
dashed unceremoniously into the room, while

his mother held up her finger, and smiled at
the truant.

You naughty boy, to be so late ; and now
you have spoiled your father's nap!' she said,
pretending to scold him.

Tut ! tut ! what nonsense you talk sometimes
!' said Mr. Mayne rather crossly, as he
stood on the hearth rug rubbing his eyes. * I
was not asleep, I will take my oath of that ;
only I wish Dick could sometimes enter a
room without making people jump ;' by
which Dick knew that his father was in one
of his contrary moods, when he could be very
cross  very cross indeed !

ME. MAYNE MAKES HIMSELF DISAGREEABLE.

HE library at Longmead was a yeiy
pleasant room, and it was the
custom of the family to retire
thither on such occasions when guests were
not forthcoming ; and Mr. Mayne could indulge
in his favourite nap without fear of
interruption.

A certain simplicity, not to say homeliness,
of manners prevailed in the house. It was
understood among them that the dining-room
was far too gorgeous for anything but occasions
of ceremony. Mrs. Mayne, indeed, had
had the good taste to cover the satin couches
with pretty, fresh-looking cretonne, and had

had arranged hanging cupboards of old china
until it had been transformed into a charming
apartment, notwithstanding which the library
was declared to be the family-room, where
the usual masculine assortment of litter could
be regarded with indulgent eyes, and where
papers and pamphlets lay in delightful confusion.


Longmead was not a pretentious house ; it
was a moderately sized residence, adapted to
a gentleman of moderate means : but in
summer no place could be more charming.
The broad gravel walk before the house had
a background of roses ; hundreds of roses
climbed up the railings or twined themselves
about the steps; a tiny miniature lake,
garnished with water-lilies, lay in the centre
of the lawn ; a group of old elm-trees were
beside it ; behind the house lay another lawn,
and beyond were meadows where a few sheep
were quietly grazing. Mr. Mayne, who found
time hang a little heavily on his hands, prided
himself a good deal on his poultry-yard and
kitchen-garden. A great deal of his spare time
was spent among his favourite Bantams and
Workings, and in superintending his opinionated

old gardener : on summer mornings he
would be out among the dews in his old coat
and planter's hat, weeding among the .


It is the early bird that finds the worm
he would say, when Dick sauntered into the
breakfast-room later on ; for in common with
the youth of this generation he had a wholesome
horror of early rising, which he averred
was one of the barbarous usages of the dark
ages in which his elders had been bred.

I never took any interest in worms, sir,'
returned Dick, helping himself to a tempting
rasher that had just been brought in hot for
the pampered youth. ' By-the-bye, have you
seen Darwin's work on 'the Formation of
Vegetable Mould"? he declares 'worms
have played a more important part in the
history of the world than most people would
at first suppose ;" they were our earliest
ploughmen.'

*0h, ah! indeed, very interesting!' observed
his father drily ; ' but all the same, I
beg to observe, no one succeeded in life who
was not an early riser.'

A sweeping assertion, and one I might be

tempted to argue, if it were not for taking np
your valuable time,' retorted Dick lazily, but
with a twinkle in his eye. * I know my constitution
better than to trust myself out before
the world is properly aired and dried. I am
thinking it is less a case of worms than of
rheumatism some early birds will be catching;'
to which Mr. Mayne merely returned an ungracious
' Pshaw !' and marched off, leaving
his son to enjoy his breakfast in peace.

"When Dick entered the library on the
evening in question, Mr. Majme's querulous
observation as to the noisiness of his entrance
convinced him at once that his father was ina
very bad humour indeed, and that on this
account it behoved him to be exceedingly
cool.

So he kissed his mother, who looked at him
a little anxiously, and then sat down and
turned out her work-basket as he had done
Kan's two or three hours ago.

'You are late after all, Dick,' she said,
with a little reproach in her voice. It was
hardly a safe observation, to judge by her
husband's cloudy countenance ; but the poor
tliin<' sometimes felt her cvenin;:(S a trifle dull

when Dick was away. Mr. Mayne would
take np his paper, but his eyes soon closed
over it; that habit of seeking for the early
worm rather disposed him to somnolent evenings,
during which his wife knitted and felt herself
nodding off out of sheer ennui and dulness.
These were not the hours she had planned
during those years of waiting ; she had told
herself that Richard would read to her or talk
to her as she sat over her work, that they
would have so much to say to each other;
but now as she regarded his sleeping countenance
evening after evening, it may be
doubted whether matrimony was quite what
she expected, since its bliss was so temperate
and so strongly infused with drowsiness.

Dick looked up innocently. ' Am I late,
mother ?'

Oh, of course not,' returned his father, with
a sneer : 'it is not quite time to ring for Nicholson
to bring our candles. Bessie, I think I
should like some hot water to-night ; I feel a
little chilly;' and bessie rang the bell obediently,
and without any surprise in her manner. Mr.
Mayne often woke up chilly from his long nap.

Are you going to have a 'drap of the

crater " ?' asked his son, with alacrity; ' well,
I don't mind joining yon, and that's the truth,
for we have been dawdling about, and I am a
trifle chilly myself.'

You know I object to spirits for young
men,' returned Mr. Mayne severely; 'nevertheless
he pushed the whisky to Dick as soon
as he had mixed his own glass, and his son
followed his example.

I am quite of your opinion, father,* he
observed, as he regarded the handsome cut-glass
decanter somewhat critically; ' but there
are exceptions to every rule, and when one is
chilly '

I wish you would make an exception and
stay away from the cottage sometimes,' returned
Mr. Majne, with ill-suppressed impatience
; ' it was all very well when you were
all young things together, but it is high time
matters should be different.'

Dick executed a low whistle of surprise and
dismay. He had no idea his father's irritability
had arisen from any definite cause.
"What a fool he had been to be so late ! it might
lead to some unpleasant discussion. Well,
after all, if his father chose to be so disagreeable

it was not his fault ; and lie was no longer
a boy to be chidden, or made to do this or that
against his own will.

Mr. Mayne was sufficiently shrewd to see
that his son was somewhat taken aback by
this sudden onslaught, and he was not slow to
press his advantage. He had wanted to give
Dick a bit of his mind for some time, and
after all there is no time like the present.

Yes, it was all very well when you were a
lot of children together,' he continued, in his
most dictatorial manner. * Of course, it is
hard on you, Dick, having no brothers and
sisters to keep you company ; your mother and
I were always sorry about that for your sake.'

Oh, don't mention it,' interrupted Dick;
on the whole, I am best pleased as it is.'

*But it would have been better for you
returned his father sharply ; * we should not
have had all this fooling and humbug if you
had had sisters of your own.'

Fooling and humbug V repeated Dick hotly;
I confess, sir, I don't quite understand to
what you are referring.' He was growing
very angry, but his mother flung herself between
the combatants.

'Don't, my boy, don't; you must not
answer jour father in that way. Eichard, what
makes you so hard on him to-night ? It must
be the gout, Dick ; we had better send for Dr.
Weatherbyby in the morning continued the
anxious woman with tears in her eyes, * for
your dear father woukl never be so cross to
you as this unless he were going to be ill.'

Stuff and nonsense, Bessie ! Dr. Weatherbyby
indeed !' but his voice was less wrathful.
What is it but fooling, I should like to know,
for Dick to be thundering his time away with
a parcel of girls as he does with these
Challoners !'

*I suppose you were never a young man
yourself, sir.'

Oh yes, I was, my boy,' and the comers
of Mr. Mayne 's mouth relaxed in spite of his
efforts to keep serious. ' I fell in love with
your mother, and stuck to her for seven
or eight years ; but I did not make believe that
I was brother to a lot of pretty girls, and
waste all my time dancing attendance on them
and running( about on their errands.'

You ought to have taken a lesson out of
my book,' returned his son readily.

No, I ought to have done no such thing,
sir !' shouted back Mr. Mayne, waxing irate
again. It could not be denied Dick could be
excessively provoking when he liked. ' Don't
I tell you it is time this sort of thing was
stopped ? Why, people will begin to talk, and
say you are making up to one of them ; it is
not right, Dick  it is not indeed,' with an
attempted pathos.

 I don't care that for what people say,' returned
the young fellow, snapping his finger.
Is it not a pity you are saying all this to me
just when I am going away, and am not likely
to see any of them for the next six months ?
You are very hard on me to-night, father ; and
I can't think what it is all about.'

Mr. Mayne was silent a moment, revolving
his son's pathetic speech. It was true he had
been cross, and had said more than he had
meant to say. He had not wished to hinder
Dick's innocent enjoyments ; but if he were
unknowingly picking flowers at the edge of a
precipice, was it not his duty as a father
to warn him ?

I think I have been a little hard, my lad,'
he said candidly ; ' but there, you and your

mother know my bark is worse than my bite;
I only wanted to warn you  that's all, Dick
Warn me !  against what, sir T asked the
young man quickly.

Against falling in love, really, with one
of the Challoner girls !' returned Mr. Mayne,
trying to evade the fire of Dick's eyes, and
blustering a little in consequence. ' Why,
they have not a penny, one of them ; and if
report be true, Mrs. Challoner's money is very
shakily invested. Paine told me so the
other day; He said he should never wonder
if a sudden crash came any minute.'

Is this true, Eichard T

Paine declares it is ; and think of Dick
saddling himself with the support of a whole
family !'

It strikes me you are taking things very
much for gi-anted,' returned his son, trying to
speak coolly, but flushing like a girl over his
words. ' I think you might wait, father,
until I proposed bringing you home a daughter-in-law.'


I am only warning you, Dick, that the
Challoner connection would be distasteful tome,'
replied Mr. Mayne, feeling that he had

VOL. I. 4

gone a little too far. ' If you had brothers
and sisters it would not matter half so much ;
but it would be too hard if my only son were
to cross my wishes

Should you disinherit me, father ?' observed
Dick cheerfully. He had recovered his coolness
and pluck, and began to feel more equal
to the occasion.

We should see about that ; but I hardly
think it would be for your advantage to oppose
me too much,' returned his father, with an
ominous pucker of his eyebrows, which warned
Dick that it was hardly safe to chaff the old
boy too much to-night.

I think I will go to bed, Ei chard,' put in
poor Mrs. Mayne. She had wisely forborne
to mix in the discussion, fearing that it would
bring upon her the vials of her husband's
wrath. Mr. Mayne was as choleric as a
"Welshman, and had a reserve force of sharp
cynical sayings that were somewhat hard to
bear. He was disposed to turn upon her on
such occasions, and to accuse her of spoiling
Dick and taking his part against his father ;
between the two Richards she sometimes had
a very bad time indeed.

Dick lighted his mother's candle, and bade
her good-night ; but all the same she knew
she had not seen the last of him. A few
minutes afterwards there was a hasty tap at
the bedroom door, and Dick thrust in his
head.

Come in, my dear ; I have been expecting
you,' she said, with a pleased smile. He
always came to her when he was ruffled or
put out, and brought her all his grievances ;
surely this was the very meaning and essence
of her motherhood  this healing and comfort
that lay in her power of sympathy.

When he was a little fellow, had she not
extracted many a thorn and bound up many a
cut finger ? and now he was a man, would she
be less helpful to him when he wanted a
different kind of comfort ?

Come in, my son,' she said, beckoning him
to the low chair beside her, into which Dick
threw himself with a petulant yawn.

Mother, what made the pater so hard on
me to-night ? he cut up as rough as though
I had committed some crime.'

'I don't think he is quite himself to-night,'
returned Mrs. Mayne, in her soft motherly

12

voice. ' I fancy lie misses you, Dick, and is
half jealous of the Challoners for monopolizing
you. You are all we have, that's where
it is,' she finished, stroking the sandy head
with her plump hand ; but Dick jerked away
from her with a little impatience.

I think it rather hard that a fellow is to
be bullied for doing nothing at all,' replied
Dick, with a touch of sullenness. When the
pater is in this humour it is no use saying
anything to him ; but you may as well tell
him, mother, that I mean to choose my wife
for myself.'

Oh, my dear, I dare not tell him anything
of the kind,' returned Mrs. Mayne, in
an alarmed voice ; and then, as she glanced at
her son, her terror merged into amusement.
There was something so absurdly boyish in
Dick's appearance, such a ludicrous contrast
between the manliness of his speech and his
smooth cheek ; the little fringe of hirsute
ornament, of which Dick was so proud, was
hardly visible in the dim light ; his youthful
figure, more clumsy than graceful, had an
unfledged air about it : nevertheless, the
boldness of his words took away her breath.

Every man has a right to his own choice
in such a matter,' continued Dick loftily.
you may as well tell him, mother, that I
intend to select my own wife.'

My dear, I dare not for worlds ' she

began ; and then she stopped, and laid her
hand on his shoulder. * Why do you say
this to me ? there is plenty of time,' she went
on hastily ; * that is what your father says,
and I think he is right. You are too young
for these sort of things yet. You must seethe
world  you must look about you  you
must have plenty of choice,' continued the
anxious mother. * I shall be hard to please,
Dick, for I shall think no one good enough
for my boy ; that is the worst of having only
one, and he the best son that ever lived
finished Mrs. Mayne, with maternal pride in
her voice.

Dick took this effusion very coolly. He
was quite used to all this sort of worship ; he
did not think badly of himself; he was
not particularly humble-minded or given to
troublesome introspection ; on the whole, he
thought himself a good fellow, and was not
at all surprised that people appreciated him.

There are such a lot of cads in the world,
one is always glad to fall in with a different
sort,' he would say to himself. He was quite
of his mother's opinion, that an honest God-fearing
young fellow, who spoke the truth
and shamed the devil ; who had no special
vices but a dislike for early rising ; who had
tolerable brains, and more than his share of
muscle ; who was in the Oxford eleven, and
who had earned his blue ribbon  that such
an one might be considered to set an example
to his generation.

When his mother told him she would be
hard to please, Dick looked a little wicked
and thought of Nan ; but the name was not
mentioned between them. Nevertheless, Mrs.
Mayne felt with unerring maternal instinct that,
in spite of his youth, Dick's choice was made,
and sighed to herself at the thought of the
evil days that were to come.

Poor woman, she was to have little peace
that night ! Hardly had Dick finished his
grumble and sauntered away, before her husband's
step was heard in his dressing-room.

Bessie,' he called out to her, ' why do you
allow that boy to keep you up so late at

night ? Do you know it is eleven, and you
are still fully dressed ?'
Is it so late, Eichard V

Yes, of course,' he snapped ; * but that is
the care you take of your health ; and the
way you cosset and spoil that boy is
dreadful.'

I don't think Dick is easily spoiled
plucking up a little spirit to answer him.

That shows how little you understand
boys returned her husband. Evidently the
whisky, though it was the best Glenlivat,
had failed to mollify him. It might be
dangerous to go too far with Dick, for he had
a way of turning round and defending himself
that somewhat embarrassed Mr. Mayne, but
with his wife there would be no such danger.
He would dominate her by his sharp
speeches, and reduce her to abject submission
in a moment, for Bessie was the meekest of
wives. ' Take care how you side with him,'
he continued, in a threatening voice. * He
thinks that I am not serious in what I said
just now, and is for carrying it off with a
high hand ; but I tell you, and you had better
tell him, that I was never more in earnest in

my life. I won't have one of those Challoner
girls for a daughter-in-law !'

Oh, Eichard ! and Nan is such a sweet
girl !' returned his wife, with tears in her eyes.
She was awfully jealous of Nan, at times
she almost dreaded her ; but for her boy's
sake she would have taken her now to her
heart, and defied even her formidable husband.
She is such a pretty creature, too  no one
can help loving her.'

'Pshaw!' returned her husband; 'pretty
creature indeed ! that is just your soft-hearted
nonsense. Phillis is ten times prettier, and
has heaps more sense. Why couldn't Dick
have taken a fancy to her ?'

Because I am afraid he cares for the other
one,' returned Mrs. Mayne sadly. She had
no wish to deceive her husband, and she knew
that the golden apple had rolled to Nan's
feet.

'Stuff and rubbish!' he responded wrathfully.
' What is a boy of his age to know
about such things ? Tell him from me to put
this nonsense out of his head for the next
year or two ; there is plenty of time to lookout
for a wife after that. But I won't have

him making up his mind until he has left
Oxford.' And Mrs. Mayne, knowing that
her husband had spoken his last word, thankfully
withdrew, feeling that in her heart she
secretly agreed with him.

DICK S FETE.

S Mr.Mayne's wrath soon evaporated,
and Dick was a sweet-tempered
fellow, and bore no malice, this
slight altercation produced no lasting effect,
except that Dick, for the next few days,
hurried home to his dinner, talked a good
deal about Switzerland, and never mentioned
a Challoner in his father's hearing.

We must keep him in a good temper for
the 25th,' he said to his mother, with a touch
of the Mayne shrewdness.

That day was rapidly approaching, and all
sorts of festive preparations were going on at
Longmead. Dick himself gravely superintended
the rolling of the tennis-ground in the

large meadow ; and daubed himself plentifully
with lime in marking out the courts, while
Mr. Mayne stood with his hands in the
pockets of his shooting-coat watching him.
The two were a great deal together just then.
Dick rather stuck to his father during one or
two mornings ; the wily young fellow knew that
Nan was closeted with his mother, helping
her with all sorts of feminine arrangements,
and he was determined to keep them apart.
Nan wondered a great deal why Dick did not
come to interrupt or tease them as usual, and
grew a little absent over Mrs. Mayne's rambling
explanations. When the gong sounded, no one
asked her to stay to luncheon. Mrs. Mayne
saw her put on her hat without uttering a
single protest.

It is so good of you to help me, dear,' she
said, taking the girl into her embrace. * You
are quite sure people won't expect a sit-down
supper ?'

Oh no; the buffet system is best,' returned
Kan decidedly. * Half the people will not
stay, and you need not make a fuss about the
rest. It is an afternoon party, you must
remember that ; only people who are very

intimate will remain for the fun of the thing.
Tell Nicholson to have plenty of ices going 
people care most for that sort of refreshments


eyes, dear; I will be sure to remember
returned her friend meekly.

She was very grateful to Nan for these
hints, and was quite willing to follow her
guidance in all such matters ; but when Nan
proposed once sending for Dick to ask his
opinion on some knotty point that baffled
their women's wits, Mrs. Mayne demurred.

It is a pity to disturb him, he is with his
father ; and we can settle these things by ourselves,'
she replied, not venturing to mar the
present tranquillity by sending such a message
to Dick. Mr. Mayne would have accompanied
his son, and the consultation would
hardly have ended peaceably. ' Men have
their hobbies. We had better settle all this
together, you and 1/ she said hurriedly.

Nan merely nodded, and cut the Gordian
knot through somewhat ruthlessly ; but on
that occasion she put on her hat before the
gong sounded,

You must be very busy, for one never hasa

glimpse of you in the morning,' she could
not help saying to Dick, as he came in that
afternoon to escort them to Fitzroy Lodge.

Well, yes, I am tolerably busy,' he drawled.
You see, I am never free to do things in the
afternoons,' a fact that Nan felt was unanswerable.


Wien Nan and her sisters woke on the
morning of the memorable day, the bright
sunshine of a cloudless June day set all their
fears at rest. If the sun smiled on Dick's
fete, all would be well. If Nan's devotions
were longer than usual that morning, no one
was the wiser; if she added a little clause,
calling down a blessing on a certain head,
no one would be the poorer for such pure
prayers ; indeed, it were well if many such
were uttered for the young men who go forth
morning after morning into the temptations of
life.

Such prayers might stretch like an invisible
shield before the countless foes that environ
such an one ; fiery darts may be caught upon
it ; a deadly thrust may be turned away.
What if the blessing would never reach the
ear of the loved one, who goes out unconscious

of sympathy. His guardian angel has
heard it, and perchance it has reached the
very gate of heaven.

Nan came down, smiling and radiant, to
find Dick waiting for her in the veranda, and
chattering to PhilHs and Dulce.

Why, Dick !' she cried, blushing with
surprise and pleasure, * to think of your being
here on your birthday morning !'

I only came to thank you and the girls
for your lovely presents,' returned Dick,
becoming rather incoherent and red at the
sight of Nan's blush. ' It was so awfully
good of you all, to work all those things forme
;' for Nan had taken secret measurements
in Dick's room, and had embroidered a most
exquisite mantelpiece valance, and Phillis and
Dulce had worked the corners of a green cloth
with wonderful daffodils and bulrushes to
cover Dick's shabby table ; and Dick's soul
had been filled with ravishment at the sight
of these gifts.

Nan would not let him go on, but all the
same his happy face delighted her.

No, don't thank us; we liked doing it,' she
returned rather coolly. * You know we owed

you something after all your splendid hospitality,
and work is never any trouble tous.'


But I never saw anything I liked better,'
blurted out Dick ; * all the fellows will be
jealous of me. I am sure I don't know what
Hamilton will say. It was awfully good of
you. Nan, and so it was of the others ; and if
I don't make it up to you somehow, my name
is not Dick;' and he smiled round at them
as he spoke. ' Fancy putting in all those
stitches for me !' he thought to himself.

We are so glad you are pleased,' returned
Nan, with one of her sweet, straightforward
looks ; * that is what we wanted to give you 
a little surprise on your birthday. Now you
must tell us about your other presents ;' and
Dick, nothing loath, launched into eloquent
descriptions of the silver-fitted dressing-case
from his mother, and the gun and thoroughbred
collie that had been his father's gifts.

He is such a fine fellow ; I must show
him to you this afternoon,' went on Dick
eagerly. ' His name is Vigo, and he has
such a superb head. Was it not good of the
pater ? he knew I had a fancy for a collie,

and he has been in treaty for one ever so long.
Is he not a dear old boy?' cried Dick rapturously.
But he did not tell his friends of the
crisp bundle of bank-notes with which Mr.
Mayne had enriched his son; only, as Dick
fingered them lovingly, he wondered what
pretty foreign thing he could buy for Nan,
and whether her mother would allow her to
accept it.

After this Nan dismissed him somewhat
peremptorily ; he must go back to his breakfast,
and allow them to do the same.

'Mind you come early,' were Dick's last
words as he waved his straw hat to them.
How often the memory of that morning
recurred to him as he stood solitary and
thoughtful, contemplating some grand stretch
of Alpine scenery.

The snow-peaks and blue glaciers melted
away before his eyes ; in their place rose
unbidden a picture framed in green trellis-work,
over which roses were climbing.

Fresh girlish faces smiled back at him ; the
brightest and kindest of glances met his.
Good-bye, Dick; a thousand good wishes from
us all.' A slim white hand had gathered a

rosebud for him ; how proudly he had worn it
all that day ! Stop, he had it still ; it lay all
crushed and withered in his pocket-book.
He had written the date under it ; one day he
meant to show it to her. Oh foolish days
of youth, so prodigal of minor memories and
small deeds of gifts, when a withered flower
can hold the rarest scent, and in a crumpled
rose-leaf there is a whole volume of ecstatic
meaning ! Oh golden days of youth, never to
be surpassed !

Never in the memory of Oldfield had there
been a more delicious day.

The sky was cloudless ; long purple shadows
lay under the elm-trees ; a concert of bird-music
sounded from the shrubberies ; in the
green meadows flags were waving, tent draperies
fluttering ; the house-doors stood open,
showing a flower-decked hall and vista of
cool shadowy rooms.

Dick, looking bright and trim, wandered
restlessly over the place, and Mr. Mayne
fidgeted after him ; while Mrs. Mayne sat
fanning herself under the elm-trees, and hoping
the band would not be late.

Ko  there it was turning in now at the

VOL. I. 5

stable-entrance, and playing ' The Girl I left
behind Me ;' and there at the same moment
was Nan coming up the lawn in her white
gown, closely followed by her mother and
sisters.

Are we the first T she asked, as Dick
darted across the grass to meet her.  That is
nice ; we shall see all the people arrive. How
inspiriting that music is, and how beautiful
everything looks !'

'It is awfully jolly of you to be the first,'
whispered Dick ; ' and how nice you look, Nan !
You always do, you know ; but to-day you
are first-rate. Is this a new gown ?' casting
an approving look over Nan's costume, which
was certainly very fresh and pretty.

Oh yes ;' we have all new dresses in your
honour, and we made them ourselves,' returned
Nan carelessly. ' Mother has got her old silk,
but for her it does not so much matter  at
least that is what she says.'

And she is quite right. She is always
real splendid, as the Yankees say, whatever she
wears,' returned Dick, wishing secretly that
his mother, in her new satin dress, looked
half so well as Mrs. Challoner in her old one.

But it was no use. Mrs. Mayne never set off
her handsome dresses; with her flushed, good-natured
face and homely ways, she showed to
marked disadvantage beside Mrs. Challoner's
faded beauty. Mrs. Challoner's gown might
be anti(][ue, but nothing could surpass the quiet
grace of her carriage, or the low pleasant
modulations of her voice. Her figure was
almost as slim as her daughters', and she
could easily have passed for their elder
sister.

Lady Fitzroy, who was a Burgoyne by
birth  and everyone knows that for haughtiness
and a certain exclusive toleration none
could match the Burgoyne  always distinguished
Mrs. Challoner by the marked attention
she paid her.

A very ladylike woman, Percival. Certainly
the most ladylike person in the neighbourhood,'
she would say to her husband, who
was not quite so exclusive, and always made
himself pleasant to his neighbours ; and she
would ask very graciously after her brother-in-law.
Sir Francis Challoner. ' He is still
in India, I suppose ?'

'Oh yes; he is still in India,' Mrs. Challenger

would reply rather curtly. She had not
the faintest interest in her husband's brother,
whom she had never seen more than twice in
her life, and who was understood to be small
credit to his family. The aforesaid Sir Francis
Challoner had been the poorest of English
baronets. His property had dwindled down
until it consisted simply of a half-ruined residence
in the north of England.

In his young days Sir Francis had been a
prodigal, and, like the prodigal in the parable,
he had betaken himself into far countries, not
to waste his substance, for he had none, but
if possible to glean some of the Eastern riches.

Whether he had been successful or not Mrs.
Challoner hardly knew. That he had married
and settled in Calcutta  that he had a son
named Harry who had once written to her in
round hand, and subscribed himself as her
affectionate nephew, Henry Ford Challoner 
this she knew ; but what manner of person
Lady Challoner might be, or what sort of
home her brother-in-law had made for himself,
those points were enveloped in mystery.

I suppose she is so civil to me because of
your uncle Francis,' she used to say to her

girls, which was attributing to Lady Fitzroy
a degree of snobbishness that was quite undeserved.
Lady Fitzroy really liked Mrs.
Challoner, and found intercourse with her very
pleasant and refreshing. Alien one is perfectly
welled, there is a subtle charm in
harmony of voice and manner. Mrs. Challoner
might have dressed in rags if she liked, and
the young Countess would still have aired her
choicest smiles for her.

It was lucky Nan had those few words
from Dick, for they fell apart after this, and
were separated the greater portion of the afternoon.


Carriages began to drive in at the gates,
groups of Will-dressed people thronged the
lawn, and were draughted off to the field
where the band was playing.

Nan and her sisters had their work cut out
for them ; they knew everybody, and they
were free of the house. It was they who
helped Dick arrange the tennis-matches;
who pointed out to the young men of the
party which was the tea-tent, and where the
ices and claret-cup were to be found. They
marshalled the elder ladies into pleasant

nooks, where they could be sheltered from the-sun,
and see all that was going on.

No, thank you ; I shall not play tennis
this afternoon ; there are too ma ny of us, and
I am so busy,' Nan said, dismissing one after
another who came up to her. * If you want
a partner, there is Carrie Paine, who is dying
for a game.'

Dick, who was passing with L lady Fitzroy
on his arm, whom he was hurrying somewhat
unceremoniously across the field, threw her a
grateful glance as he went by.

What a sweet-looking girl that is !' said
Lady Fitzroy graciously, as she panted a little
over her exertion.

Who  Nan ? Yes ; isn't she a brick 
and the others too ?' for Phillis and Dulce
were just as self-denying in their labours.
As Mr. Mayne said afterwards, * They were
just everywhere, those Challoners, like a
hive of swarming bees;' which, as it was
said in a grumbling tone, was ungrateful, to
say the least of it.

Dick worked like a horse too ; he looked
all the afternoon as though he had a tough
job in hand that required the utmost gravity

and despatch. He was for ever hurrying
elderly ladies across the field towards the
refreshment-tent, where he deposited them,
panting and heated, in all sorts of corners.

Are you quite comfortable ? May I
leave you now ; or shall I wait and take you
back again T asked Dick, who was eager fora
fresh convoy.

'No, no; I would rather stay here a
little returned Mrs. Paine, and who was not
desirous of another promenade with the hero
of the day. * Go and fetch some one else,
Dick ; I am very well off where I am,' exchanging
an amused glance with one of her
friends, as Dick, hot and breathless, started
off on another voyage of discovery.

Dick's behaviour had been simply perfect
all the afternoon in his father's eyes ; but
later on, when the band struck up a set of
quadrilles, he committed his first solecism in
manners  instead of asking Lady Fitzroy to
dance with him, he hm-red after Nan.

This is our dance  come along,' he said,
taking her unwilling hand ; but she held back
a moment.

Are you sure ? Is there not some one

else you ought to choose  Lady Fitzroy, for
example ?' questioned Nan, with admirable
forethought.

Bother Lady Fitzroy!' exclaimed Dick,
under his breath ; he had had quite enough
of that lady. *Why are you holding back.
Nan, in this fashion ?' a cloud coming over
his face. * Haven't you promised weeks ago
to give me the first dance V And Nan, seeing
the cloud on his face, yielded without another
word. Dick always managed to have his
own way somehow.

Dick ! Dick !' cried his father in a voice
of agony, as they passed him,

All in good time  coming presently,' returned
the scapegrace cheerfully. ' Now,
Nan, this is our place. We will have
Hamilton and Dulce for our vis-davis. What
a jolly day ! and isn't this first-rate !' exclaimed
Dick, rubbing his hands, and feeling
as though he were only just beginning to
enjoy himself.

Nan was not quite so easy in her mind.

Your father does not look very pleased.
I am afraid, after all, you ought to have
asked Lady Fitzroy,' she said, in a low

voice ; but Dick turned a deaf ear. He
showed her the rose in his button-hole ; and
when Nan told him it was withered, and
wanted him to take it out, he gave her a
reproachful look that made her blush.

They were very happy after this ; and,
when the dance was over, Dick gave her his
arm, and carried her off to see Vigo, who
was howling a deep mournful bass at the
back of the gardener's cottage.

Nan made friends with him, and stroked
his black curly head, and looked lovingly into
his deep melancholy eyes ; and then, as her
flowers were fading, they strolled off into the
conservatory, where Dick gathered her a fresh
bouquet, and then sat down and watched her
arrange it.

What clever fingers you have got !' he
said, looking at them admiringly, as Nan
sorted the flowers in her lap ; and at this
unlucky moment they were discovered by
Mr. Mayne, who was bringing Lady Fitzroy
to see a favourite orchid.

He shot an angry suspicious glance at his
son.

Dick, your mother is asking for you,* he

said, rather abruptly ; but Dick growled
something in an undertone, and did not
move.

Nan gave him a frightened nudge. Why
was he so imprudent ?

I cannot move, because of my flowers ;
do go, Dick. You must indeed, if your
mother wants you ;' and she looked at him in
such a pleading way, that Dick dared not
refuse. It was just like his father to come
and disturb his first happy moments, and to
order him off to go and do something disagreeable.
He had almost a mind to brave
it out, and remain, in spite of him ; but there
was Nan looking at him in a frightened,
imploring way.

Oh, do go, Dick,' giving him a little impatient
push in her agitation  * if your
mother wants you; you must not keep her
waiting.' But Nan in her heart knew, as
Dick did in his, that the message was only a
subterfuge to separate them.

I AM QUITE Sure OF HIM.'

AN would willingly have effected her
escape too, but she was detained
2c by the flowers that Dick had
tossed so lightly into her lap. She was rather
dismayed at her position, and her fingers
trembled a little over their work. There was
a breath  a sudden entering current of antagonism
and prejudice that daunted her. Lady
Fitzroy cast an admiring look at the girl, as
she sat there with glowing cheeks and downcast
lids.

How pretty she is !' she said in a low
voice, as Mr. Mayne pointed out his favourite
orchid. * She is like her mother ; there is just
the same quiet style, only I suspect Mrs.

Challoner was even better-looking in her
time.'

Humph ! yes, I suppose so returned her
host, in a dissatisfied tone. He had not
brought Lady Fitzroy there to talk of the
Challoners, but to admire his orchids. Then
he shot another glance at Nan between his
half-closed eyes, and a little spice of malice
flavoured his next words.

Shall we sit here a moment ? Let me
see  you were asking me, Lady Fitzroy, about
Dick's prospects. I was talking to his mother
about them the other day. I said to her
then, Dick must settle in life well -he must
marry money.'

Indeed,' replied Lady Fitzroy, somewhat
absently ; she even indulged in a slight yawn
behind her fan. She liked Dick well enough,
as everyone else did, but she was not partial
to his father. How tiresome it was of Fitzroy
to insist so much on their neighbourly duties.

Mr. Mayne was not ' one of them,' as she
would have phrased it ; he did not speak their
language, or lead their life ; their manners
and customs, their little tricks and turns of
thought, were hieroglyphics to him.

A man who had never had a grandfather 
at least a grandfather worth knowing ; whose
father's hands had dabbled in trade  actually
trade  such an one might be a very worthy
man, an excellent citizen, an exemplary husband
and father, but it behoved a woman in her
position not to descend too freely to his level.

Percival is such a sad Eadical,' she would
say to herself ; 'he does not make sufficient
distinction between people: I should wish to
be neighbourly, but I cannot bring myself to
be familiar with these Maynes ] which was
perhaps the reason why Lady Fitzroy was not
as popular at Longmead and in other places
as her good-natured husband.

Oh, indeed,* she said, with difficulty
repressing another slight yaw-n behind her
fan, but speaking in a fatigued voice ; but
Mr. Mattie was too intent on his purpose to
notice it.

If Dick had brothers and sisters it would
not matter so much; but when one has only a
single hope  eh. Lady Fitzroy !  things must
be a little different then.'

He will have plenty of choice,' she returned,
with an effort at graciousness. * Old-field

is rich in pretty girls ' and she cast

another approving glance at poor Nan, but
Mr. Mayne interrupted her almost rudely

Ah, as to that,' he returned with a sneer,
we want no such nonsense for Dick. Here are
the facts of the case. Here is an honest,
good-tempered young fellow, but with no
particular push in him ; he has money, you
say  yes, but not enough to give him the
standing I want him to have. I am ambitious
for Dick. I want him to settle in life well.
Why, he might be called to the Bar  he might
enter Parliament ; there is no limit to a man's
career nowadays. I will do what I can for
him, but he must meet me half-way.'

You mean,' observed Lady Fitzroy, with
a little perplexity in her tone, * that he must
look out for an heiress.' She was not in the
secret, and she could not understand why her
host was treating her to this outburst of
confidence. ' It was so disagreeable to be
mixed up with these sort of things,' as she
told her husband afterwards. ' I never knew
him quite so odious before ; and there was
that pretty Miss Challoner sitting near us,
and he never let me address a word to her.

Nan began to feel she had had enough of it.
She started up hastily as Lady Fitzroy said
the last words, but the entrance of some more
young people compelled her to stand inside a
moment, and she heard Mr. Mayne's answer
distinctly * "Well, not an heiress exactly ;
but the girl I have in view for him has a
pretty little sum of money, and the connection
is all that could be wished ; she is nice-looking
too, and is a bright, taking little body '

But here Nan made such a resolute effort to
pass, that the rest of the sentence was lost
upon her.

Dick, who was strolling up and down the
lawn rather discontentedly, hurried up to her
as she came out.

They are playing a valse ; come, Nan,' he
said, holding out his hand to her with his
usual eagerness ; but she shook her head.

I cannot dance, I am too tired ; there are
others you ought to ask.' She spoke a little
ungraciously, and Dick's face wore a look of
dismay, as she walked away from him with
quick even footsteps.

Tired ? Nan tired ! he had never heard of
such a thing. Yhat had put her out ? The

sweet brightness had died out of her eyes,
and her cheeks were flaming. Should he
follow her and have it out with her, there and
then ? But as he hesitated, young Hamilton
came over the grass and linked his arm
in his.

Come and introduce me to that girl in
blue gauze, or whatever you call that flimsy
manufacture. Come along, there's a good
fellow,' he said coaxingly  and Dick's opportunity
was lost.

But he was wrong; for once in her life Nan
was tired ; the poor girl felt a sudden quenching
of her bright elasticity that amounted to
absolute fatigue.

She had spoken to Dick sharply ; but that
was to get rid of him, and to recall him to a
sense of his duty. Not for worlds would she
be seen dancing with him or even talking to
him again !

She sat down on a stump of a tree in the
shrubbery, and wondered wearily what had
taken it out of her so much. And then she
recalled sentence by sentence everything that
had passed in the conservatory.

She had found out quite lately that Mr.

elaine did not approve of her intimacy with
Dick. His manner had somewhat changed to
her, and several times he had spoken to her
in a carping, fault-finding way  little cut-untried
sentences of elderly wisdom that she had
not understood at the time.

She had not pleased him of late somehow,
and all her little efforts and overtures had been
lost upon him. Nan had been quite aware
of this, but it had not troubled her much;
it was a way he had, and he meant nothing by
it. Most men had humours that must be respected,
and Dick's father had his. So she
bore herself very sweetly towards him, treating
his caustic remarks as jokes, and laughing
pleasantly at them, never taking his hints in
earnest  he would know better some day,
that was all ; but she had no idea of any
deeply laid plan against their happiness. She
felt as though some one had struck her hard ;
she had received a blow that set all her nerves
tingling. It was very funny what he said ; it
was so droll that it almost made her laugh, and
yet her eyes smarted, and her cheeks felt on
fire.

 ' Dick must marry money." Why must

VOL. I. G

he ?  that was so droll. ' Well, not an heiress
exactly, but a pretty little sum of money, and
a bright, taking little body' Who was this
mysterious person whom he had in view,
whose connections were so desirable, who was
to be Dick's future wife ? Dick's future wife!'
repeated Nan, with an odd little quiver of her
lip. * And was it not droll, settling it all for
him like that ?'

Nan fell into a brown study, and then woke
up with a little gasp. It was all clear to her
now ; all those little cut-and-dried sentences
all those veiled sneers and innuendoes.

They were poor  poor as church-mice 
and Dick must marry money. Mr. Mayne
had laid his plans for his son, and was watching
their growing intimacy with disapproving
eyes. Perhaps ' the bright, taking little body *
might accompany them to Switzerland ; perhaps
among the mountains Dick would forget
her, and lend a ready acquiescence to his
father's plans. Who was she ? Had Nan
ever seen her ? Could she be here this afternoon
 this future rival and enemy of her
peace ?

Ah, what nonsense I am thinking !' she

exclaimed to herself, starting up with a little
shame and impatience at her own thoughts.
What has this all got to do with me ? let
them settle it between them  money-hags"
and all. Dick is Dick, and after all I am
not afraid !' and Kan marched hack to the
company with her head higher, and a great
assumption of cheerfulness, and a little gnawing
feeling of discomfort at her heart, to
which she would not have owned for worlds.

Nan was the gayest of the gay that evening,
but she would not dance again with Dick ;
she sent the poor boy away from her with a
decision and peremptoriness that struck him
with fresh dismay.

You are not tired now, Nan ; you have
been waltzing ever so long with Cathcart and
Hamilton,'

Never n:ind about me to-night ; you must
go and ask Lady Fitzroy. No, I am not
cross. Do you think I would be cross to
you on your birthday ? but all the same I will
not have you neglect your duties. Go and ask
her this moment, sir !' and Nan smiled in his
face in the most bewitching way, and gave a
Utile flutter to her fan. She accepted Mr.

Hamilton's invitation to a valse under Dick's
very eyes, and whirled away on his arm,
while Dick stood looking at her ruefully.

Just at the very last moment Island's heart
relented.

Walk down to the gate with us she
whispered, as she passed him on her way to
the cloak-room.

Dick, who was by this time in a somewhat
surly humour, made no sort of response ;
nevertheless Nan found him out on the gravel
path waiting for them, in company with Cathcart
and Hamilton.

Nan shook off the latter rather cleverly,
and took Dick's arm, in cheerful unconsciousness
of his ill-humour.

It is so good of you to come with us. I
wanted to get you a moment to myself, to
congratulate you on the success of the evening.
It was admirably managed, everyone says
so ; even Lady Fitzroy was pleased, and her
ladyship is a trifle fastidious. Have the
band indoors, and set them to dancing  that is
what I said ; and it has turned out a complete
success,' finished Nan, with a little gush of enthusiasm;
but she did not find Dick responsive.

Oh ! bother the success and all that !'
returned that very misguided young man ;
it was the slowest affair to me, I assure you,
and I am thankful it is over. You have
spoiled the evening to me, and that is what
you have done,' grumbled Dick, in his most
ominous voice.

I spoilt your evening, you ungrateful boy !'
replied Nan innocently ; but she smiled to
herself in the darkness, and the reproach was
sweet to her. They had entered the garden
of Glen Cottage by this time, and Dick was
fiercely marching her down a side-path that
led to the kitchen. The hall-door stood open.
Cathcart and Hamilton were chattering with
the girls in the porch, while Mrs. Challoner
went inside. They peered curiously into the
summer dusk, as Dick's impatient footsteps
grated on the gravel path.

I spoilt your evening !' repeated Nan,
lifting her bright eyes with the gleam of fun
still in them.

Yes,' blurted out Dick ; ' why have you
kept me at such a distance all the evening?
Yhy would you not dance with me ? and you
gave Hamilton three valses. It was not like

you, Nan, to treat me so  and on my birthday
too went on the poor fellow, with a pathos
that brought another sort of gleam to Nan's
eyes, only she still laughed.

Ah, you foolish boy !' she said, and gave
his coat-sleeve a coaxing little pat. ' I would
rather have danced with you than Mr. Hamilton,
though he does reverse beautifully, and
I never knew anyone who waltzed more
perfectly.'

Oh, I do not presume to rival Hamilton,'
began Dick hotly, but she silenced him.

Listen to me, you foolish Dick ! I would
have danced with you and willingly, but
I knew my duty better, or rather I knew
yours. You were a public man to-day ; the
eyes of the county were upon you. You had
to pay court to the big ladies, and to take no
notice of poor little me. I sent you away for
your own good, and because I valued your
duty above my pleasure,' continued this
heroic young person, in a perfectly satisfied
tone.

And you wanted to dance with me, Nan,
and not with that goose of a Hamilton ?' in a
wheedling voice.

Yes, Dick ; but he is not a goose for all
that : he is more of a swan, in my opinion

He is a conceited ass ! ' was the very unexpected
reply, which was a little hard on
Dick's cliinn, who was in many ways a most
estimable young man, and vastly his superior.
Why are you laughing, when you know I hate
prigs ? and Hamilton is about the biggest I
ever knew.' But this did not mend matters,
and Nan's laugh still rang merrily in the darkness.


What are those two doing?' asked Phillis,
trying to peep between the lilac-bushes, but
failing to discover more than the white glimmer
of Nan's shawl.

Nan's laugh, though it was full of sweet
triumph, only irritated Dick ; the lord of the
evening was still too sore and humiliated by
all these rebuffs and repulses to take the fun
in good part.

Wliat is it that amuses you so ?' he asked
rather crossly ; ' that is the worst of you girls,
you are always so ready to make merry at a
fellow's expense. You are taking Hamilton's
part against me, Nan  I, who am your oldest
friend, who have always been faithful to you

ever since you were a child continued the
young man, with a growing sense of aggravation.


Oh, Dick !' and Nan's voice faltered a
little ; she was rather touched at this.

Dick took instant note of the change of key,
and went on in the same injured voice.

Why should I look after all the big people,
and take no notice of you ? Have I not
made it my first duty to look after you as long
as I can remember ? Though the whole world
were about us, would you not be the first and
the principal to me ?'

Don't, Dick,' she said faintly, trying to repress
him ; ' you must not talk in that way,
and I must not listen to you ; your father
would not like it The words were sweet to
her  precious beyond everything, but she must
not have him speak them. But Dick, in his
angry excitement, was not to be repressed.

What does it matter what he likes ? This
is between you and me, Nan ; no one shall
meddle between us two.' But what imprudent
speech Dick was about to add was suddenly
quenched in light-pealing laughter. At this
critical moment they were met and surrounded;

before them was the red glow of Cathcart's
cigar, the whiteness of Phillis's gown ; behind
were two more advancing figures. In another
second the young people had joined hands  a
dusky ring formed round the startled pair.

Fairly caught !' cried Dulce's sunshiny
voice ; the mischievous little monkey had no
idea of the sport she was spoiling. None of
the young people thought of anything but fun ;
Dick was just Dick, and he and Nan were
always together.

Dick muttered something inaudible under
his breath, but Nan was quite equal to the
occasion ; she was still palpitating a little with
the pleasure Dick's words had given her, but
she confronted her tormentors boldly.

You absurd creatures,' she said, ' to steal
a march on us like that ! Dick and I were
having a quarrel ; we were fighting so hard
that we did not hear you.'

I enjoy a good fight above everything,'
exclaimed Cathcart, throwing away his cigar.
He was a handsome dark-eyed bo}-, with no
special individuality, except an overweening
sense of fun. ' What's the odds, Mayne? and
who is likely to be the winner ?'

Oh, Nan, of course returned Dick, trying
to recover himself. ' I am the captive of her
spear and of her bow ; she is in possession of
everything, myself included.'

The rest laughed at Dick's jest, as they
thought it ; and Mr. Hamilton said, ' Bravo,
Miss Challoner ! we will help to drag him at
your chariot wheels.' But Nan changed colour
in the darkness.

They went in after this, and the young men
took their leave in the porch. Dick's strong
grip of the hand conveyed his meaning fully
to Nan  ' Remember I meant it all,' it seemed
to say to her.

What did it matter ? I am quite sure of
him  Dick is Dick,' thought Nan, as she laid
her head happily on the pillow.

As for Dick, he had a long ordeal before
him ere he could make his escape to the
smoking-room, where his friends awaited him.
Mr. Mayne had a great deal to say to him
about the day, and Dick had to listen and try
to look interested.

I am sure Dick behaved beautifully,' observed
Mrs. Mayne, when the son and heir
had at last lounged off to his companions.



Well, yes; he did very well on the whole
was the grudging response ; * but I must say
those Challoner girls made themselves far too
conspicuous for my taste;' but to this his wife
prudently made no reply.

MR. Tinder S VISIT.

ISHE next few days passed far too
j i  quickly for Nan's pleasure, and
S4ll Dick's last morning arrived. The
very next day the Maynes were to start for
Switzerland, and Longmead was to stand
empty for the remainder of the summer. It
was a dreary prospect for Nan, and in spite
of her high spirits her courage grew somewhat
low. Six months ! who could know
what might happen before they met again ?
Nan was not the least hit superstitious,
neither was it her wont to indulge in useless
speculations or forebodings ; hut she could not
shake off this morning a strange uncanny
feeling that haunted her in spite of herself 

a presentiment that things were not going to
be just as she would have them  that Dick
and she would not meet again in exactly the
same manner.

How silly I am ! ' she thought for the
twentieth time, as she brushed out her glossy
brown hair, and arranged it in her usual
simple fashion.

Nan and her sisters were a little behind
the times in some ways ; they had never
thought fit to curl their hair en gcuron, or to
mount a pyramid of tangled curls in imitation
of a poodle  no pruning scissors had
touched the light springing locks that grew
so prettily about their temples ; in this, as in
much else, they were unlike other girls, for
they dared to put individuality before fashion,
and good taste and a sense of beauty against
the specious arguments of the multitude.

How silly I am !' again repeated Nan.
What can happen, what should happen,
except that I shall have a dull summer, and
shall be very glad when Christmas and Dick
come together;' and then Nan shook her
little basket of housekeeping keys until thej
jingled merrily, and ran downstairs with a

countenance she meant to keep bright for the
rest of the day.

They were to play tennis at the Paines' that
afternoon, and afterwards the three girls were
to dine at Longmead. Mrs. Challoner had
been invited also ; but she had made some
excuse, and pleaded for a quiet evening. She
was never very ready to accept these invitations
; there was nothing in common between
her and Mrs. Mayne ; and in her heart she
agreed with Lady Fitzroy in thinking the
master of Longmead odious.

It was Mr. Mayne who had tendered this
parting hospitality to his neighbours, and he
chose to be much offended at Mrs. Challoner 's
refusal.

I think it is very unfriendly of your
mother, when we are such old neighbours,
and on our last evening too,' he said to Nanas
she entered the drawing-room that evening,
bringing her mother's excuses wrapped up in
the prettiest words she could find.

Mother is not quite well ; she does not
feel up to the exertion of dining out to-night,'
returned Nan, trying to put a good face on
it, but feeling as though things were too

much for her "this evening. It was bad enough
for Mr. Mayne to insist on them all coming
up to a long formal dinner, and spoiling their
chances of a twilight stroll ; but it was still
worse for her mother to abandon them after
this fashion.

The new novel must have had something
to do with this sudden indisposition ; but
when Mrs. Challoner had wrapped herself up
in her white shawl, always a bad sign with
her, and had declared herself unfit for any
exertion, what could a dutiful daughter do
but deliver her excuses as gracefully as she
could ? Nevertheless, Mr. Mayne frowned
and expressed himself ill-pleased.

I should have thought an effort could
have been made on such an occasion,' was his
final thrust, as he gave his arm ungraciously
to Nan, and conducted her with ominous
solemnity to the table.

It was not a festive meal, in spite of all
Mrs. Mayne's efforts. Dick looked glum.
He was separated from Nan by a vast silver
epergne, that fully screened her from view.
Another time she would have peeped merrily
round at him, and given him a sprightly nod'

or two ; but how was lie to do it vlien Mr.
Majaie never relaxed his gloomy muscles,
and when he insisted on keeping* up a ceremonious
flow of conversation with her on the
subjects of the day.

When Dick tried to strike into their talk,
he got so visibly snubbed that he was obliged
to take refuge with Phillis.

You young fellows never know what you
are talking about,' observed Mr. Mayne
sharply when Dick had hazarded a remark
about the Premier's policy ; ' you are a
Eadical one day, and a Conservative another.
That comes of jour debating societies. You
take contrary sides, and mix up a balderdash
of ideas, until you don't know whether you
are standing on your head or your heels ;' and
it was after this that Dick found his refuge
with Phillis.

It was little better when they were all in
the drawing-room together. If Mr. Mayne
had invited them there for the purpose of
keeping them all under his own eyes and
making them uncomfortable, he could not
have managed better. When Dick suggested
a stroll in the garden, he said :

Pshaw ! what nonsense proposing such a
thing, when the dews are heavy and the
girls will catch their deaths of cold !'

We do it every evening of our life
observed Nan hardily ; but even she dare not
persevere in the face of this protest, though
she exchanged a rebellious look with Dick
that did him good, and put him in a better
humour.

They found their way into the conservatory
after that, but were hunted out on pretence
of having a little music ; at least, Nan would
have it that it was pretence.

Your father does not care much for music,
I know,' she whispered, as she placed herself
at the grand piano, while Dick leant against
it and watched her. It was naughty of
Nan, but there was no denying that she found
Mr. Mayne more aggravating than usual this
evening.

Come, come. Miss Nancy !' he called out 
he always called her that when he wished to
anno' her, for Nan had a special dislike to
her quaint, old-fashioned name ; it had been
her mother's and grandmother's name ; in
every generation there had been a Nancy

VOL. I. 7

Clialloner  * Come, come, Miss Nancy ! we
cannot have you playing at hide-and-seek in
this fashion. We want some music ; give
us something rousing, to keep us all awake ;'
and Nan had reluctantly placed herself at
the piano.

She did her little best according to orders,
for she dare not offend Dick's father. None
of the Challoners were accomplished girls.
Dulce sang a little, and so did Nan, but
Phillis could not play the simplest piece without
bungling ; and her uncertain little warbling,
which were sweet but hardly true, were
reserved for church.

Dulce sang very prettily, but she could
only manage her own accompaniments or a
sprightly valse. Nan, who did most of the
execution of the family, was a very fair performer
from a young lady's point of view, and
that is not saying much. She always had
her piece ready if people wanted her to play.
She sat down without nervousness and rose
without haste. She had a choice little
repertoire of old songs and ballads, that she
could produce without hesitation from memory.
My mother bids me bind my hair,' or ' Bid

your faithful Ariel fly and such-like old
songs, in which there is more melody than ina
hundred new ones, and which she sang ina
simple, artless fashion that pleased the elder
people greatly.

Dulce could do more than this, but her
voice had never been properly tutored, and
she sang her bird-music in bird-fashion, rather
wildly and shrilly, with small respect to rule
and art, nevertheless making a pleasing noise,
as a young foreigner once told her.

When Nan had exhausted her little stock,
Mr. Mayne peremptorily invited them to a
round game ; and the rest of the evening was
spent in trying to master the mysteries of a
new game, over the involved rules of which
Mr. Mayne, as usual, wrangled fiercely with
everybody, while Dick shrugged his shoulders
and shuffled his cards with such evident ill-humour,
that Nan hurried her sisters away
half an hour before the usual time, in terror
of an outbreak.

It was an utterly disappointing evening ;
and to make matters worse, Mr. Mayne
actually lit his cigar and strolled down the
garden-paths, keeping quite close to Nan, and

showing such obvious intention of accompanying
them to the very gate of the cottage, that
there could be no thought of any sweet Hungering
in the dusk.

'I will be even with him growled Dick,
who was in a state of suppressed irritation
under this unexpected surveillance ; and in the
darkest part of the road he twitched Nan's
sleeve to attract her attention, and whispered
in so low a voice that his father could not
hear him : * This is not good-bye. I will be
round at the cottage tomorrow morning ;' and
Nan nodded hurriedly, and then turned her
head to answer Mr. Mayne's last question.

If Dick had put all his feelings in his
hand-shake, it could not have spoken to Nan
more eloquently of the young man's wrath
and chagrin and concealed tenderness. Nan
shot him one of her swift straightforward
looks in answer.

Never mind,' it seemed to say, ' we shall
have tomorrow ;' and then she bade them
cheerfully good-night.

Dorothy met her in the hall, and put down
her chamber-candlestick.

Has the mother gone to bed yet, Dorothy ?'

questioned the young mistress, speaking still
with that enforced cheerfulness.

No, Miss Nan ; she is still in there jerking
her head in the direction of the drawing-room.
Mr. Trinder called, and was with her a longtime.
I thought she seemed a bit poorly
when I took in the lamp.'

Manse is never fit for anything when
that old ogre has been,' broke in Dulce impatiently.
' He always comes and tells her
some nightmare tale or other to prevent her
sleeping. Now we shall not have the new
g0A\*ns we set our hearts on, Nau.'

Oh, never mind the gowns,' retui-ned Nan,
rather wearily.

What did it matter if they had to wear*
their old ones when Dick would not be thereto
see them ? and Dorothy, who was contemplating
her favourite nursling with the
privileged tenderness of an old servant, chimed
in with the utmost cheerfulness.

It does not matter what she wears  does
it. Miss Nan ? She looks just as nice in an
old gown as a new one ; that is what I say
of all my young ladies  dress does not matter
a bit to them.'

How long are you all going to stand
chattering with Dorothy ?' interrupted Phillis,
in her clear decided voice. ' Mother will
wonder what conspiracy we are hatching, and
why we leave her so long alone.' And then
Dorothy took up her candlestick, grumbling a
little, as she often did, over Miss Phillis's
masterful ways, and the girls went laughingly
into their mother's presence.

Though it was summer-time, Mrs. Challenger's
easy-chair was drawn up in front of
the rug, and she sat wrapped in her white
shawl, with her eyes fixed on the pretty
painted fire-screen that hid the blackness of
the coals. She did not turn her head or
move as her daughters entered; indeed, so
motionless was her attitude that Dulce thought
she was asleep, and went on tiptoe round her
chair to steal a kiss. But Nan, who had caught
sight of her mother's face, put her quickly aside.

Don't, Dulce ; mother is not well. What
is the matter, mammie darling ?' kneeling
down and bringing her bright face on a level
with her mother's. She would have taken
her into her vigorous young arms, but Mrs.
Challoner almost pushed her away.

Hush, children ! Do be quiet, Nan ; I
cannot talk to you. I cannot answer questions
to-nights And then she shivered and drew
her shawl closer round her, and put away
Nan's caressing hands, and looked at them
all with a face that seemed to have grown
pinched and old all at once, and eyes full of
misery.

Mammie, you must speak to us,' returned
Nan, not a whit daunted by this rebuff, but
horribly frightened all the time.  Of course
Dorothy told us that Mr. Trinder has been
here, and of course we know that it is some
trouble about money;' then, at the mention of
Mr. Trinder's name, Mrs. Challoner shivered
again.

Nan waited a moment for an answer ; but
as none came, she went on in a coaxing voice.

Don't be afraid to tell us, mother darling ;
we can all bear a little trouble, I hope. We
have had such happy lives, and we cannot
go on being happy always continued the girl,
with the painful conviction coming suddenly
into her mind that the brightness of these
days were over. * Money is very nice, and
one cannot do without it, I suppose ; but as

long as we are together and love each
other '

Then Mrs. Challoner fixed her heavy eyes
on her daughter, and took up the unfinished
sentence :

Ah, if we could only be together  if I
were not to be separated from my children ! it
is that  that is crushing me !' and then she
pressed her dry lips together, and folded her
hands with a gesture of despair ; ' but I know
that it must be, for Mr. Trinder has told me
everything. It is no use shutting our eyes
and struggling on any longer, for we are
ruined  ruined!' her voice sinking into indistinctness.


Nan grew a little pale. If they were ruined,
how would it be with her and Dick ? And then
she thought of Mr. Mayne, and her heart felt
faint within her. Nan, who had Dick added
to her perplexities, was hardly equal to the
emergency ; but it was Phillis who took the
domestic helm as it fell from her sister's
hand.

If we be ruined, mother,' she said briskly,
it is not half so bad as having you ill. Nan,
why don't you rub her hands ? she is shivering

with cold, or with the bad news, or something.
I mean to set Dorothy at defiance, and to
light a nice Httle fire, in spite of the clean
muslin curtains. When one is ill or unhappy
there is nothing so soothing as a fire,' continued
Phillis, as she removed the screen and
kindled the dry wood, not heeding Mrs.
Challoner's feeble remonstrances.

Don't, Phillis ; we shall not be able to
afford fires now;' and then she became a
little hysterical. But Phillis persisted, and
the red glow was soon coaxed into a cheerful
blaze.

That looks more comfortable. I feel chilly
myself  these summer nights are sometimes
deceptive. I wonder what Dorothy will say
to us; I mean to ask her to make us all some
tea. No, mammy, you are not to interfere;
it will do you good, and we don't mean to
have you ill if we can help it.' And
then she looked meaningly at Nan, and withdrew.


There was no boiling water of course, and
the kitchen fire was raked out ; and Dorothy
was sitting in solitary state, looking very
grim.

It is time for folks to be in their beds,
Miss Phillis,' she said very crossly. * I don't
hold with tea myself so late ; it excites people,
and keeps them awake.'

Mother is not just the thing, and a cup of
tea will do her good ; don't let us keep you
up, Dorothy,' replied Phillis blandly. ' I
have lighted the drawing-room fire, and I can
boil the kettle in there. If mother has got
a chill, I would not answer for the consequences.'


Dorothy grew huffy at the mention of the
fire, and would not aid or abet her young-lady's
' fad,' as she called it.

'If you don't want me, I think I will goto
bed, Miss Phillis. Susan went off a longtime
ago.' And as Phillis cheerfully acquiesced
in this arrangement, Dorothy decamped
with a frown on her brow, and left
Phillis mistress of the situation.

There now, I have got rid of the cross o]d
thing,' she observed in a tone of relief, as she
filled the kettle and arranged the little tea-tray.


She carried them both into the room,
poising the tray skilfully in her hand. Nan

looked up in a relieved way as she entered.
Mrs. Clialloner was stretching out her chilled
hands to the blaze. Her face had lost its
pinched unnatural expression ; it was as
though the presence of her girls fenced her insecurely,
and her misfortune grew more
shadowy and faded into the background.
She drank the tea when it was given to her,
and even begged Nan to follow her example.
Nan took a little to please her, though she
hardly believed its solace would be great ;
but Phillis and Dulce drank theirs in a busi-
ness-like way, as though they needed support
and were not ashamed to o\n it. It was
Nan who put down her cup first, and leaned
her cheek against her mother's hand.

Now, mother dear, we want to hear all
about it. Does Mr. Trinder say we are really
so dreadfully poor ?'

We have been getting poorer for a longtime,'
returned her mother mournfully ;
*but if we had only a little left us I would
not complain. You see, your father would
persist in these investments in spite of all
Mr. Trinder could say, and now his words
have come true.' But this vague statement

did not satisfy Nan ; and patiently, and with
difficulty, she drew from her mother all that
the lawyer had told her.

Mr. Challoner had been called to the Bar
early in life, but his career had hardly been a
successful one. He had held few briefs, and
though he worked hard, and had good capabilities,
he had never achieved fortune ; and ashe
lived up to his income, and was rather
fond of the good things of this life, he got
through most of his wife's money, and, contrary
to the advice of older and wiser heads,
invested the remainder in the business of
a connection who only wanted capital to make
his fortune and Mr. Challoner's too.

It was a grievous error ; and yet if Mr.
Challoner had lived, those few thousands
would hardly have been so sorely missed. He
was young in his profession, and if he had
been spared, success would have come to
him as to other men; but he was cut off
unexpectedly in the prime of life, and Mrs.
Challoner gave up her large house at Kensington,
and settled at Glen Cottage with her
three daughters, understanding that life was
changed for her, and that they must have

to be content with small means and few-want
s.

Hitherto they had had sufficient ; but of
late there had been dark whispers concerning
that invested money : things were not
quite square and above-board ; the integrity
of the firm was doubted. Mr. Trinder, almost
with tears in his eyes, begged Mrs. Challoner
to be prudent and spend less. The crash
which he had foreseen, and had vainly tried
to avert, had come to-night. Gardiner and
Fowler were bankrupt, and their greatest
creditor, Mrs. Challoner, was ruined.

We cannot get our money. Mr. Trinder
says we never shall. They have been paying
their dividends correctly, keeping it up as a
sort of blind, he says; but all the capital
is eaten away. George Gardiner too, your
father's cousin, the man he trusted above
everyone  he, to defraud the widow and the
fatherless, to take our money  my children's
only portion  and to leave us beggared;' and
Mrs. Challoner, made tragical by this great
blow, clasped her hands and looked at her
girls with two large tears rolling down her
face.

Not like other Girls,

Mother, are you sure ? is it quite as bad
as that ?' asked Nan ; and then she kissed
away the tears, and said something rather
brokenly about having faith, and trying not
to lose courage ; then her voice failed her,
and they all sat quiet together.

Phillips S CATECHISM.

VEIL of silence fell over the little
party. After the first few moments
of dismay, conjecture and
exclamation, there did not seem to be much
that anyone could say. Each girl was busy
with her own thoughts and private interpretation
of a most sorrowful enigma. What were
they to do ? How were they to live without
separation, and without taking a solitary
plunge into an unknown and most terrifying
world ?

Nan's frame of mind was slightly monotonous.
\Yhat would Dick say, and how
would this affect certain vague hopes she
had lately cherished ? Then she thought

of Mr. Mayne and shivered, and a sense
of coldness and remote fears stole over her.

One could hardly blame her for this sweet
dual selfishness, that was not selfishness.
She was thinking less of herself than of
a certain vigorous young life that was
becoming strongly entwined with hers. It
was all very well to say Dick was Dick ; but
what could the most obstinate will of even
that most obstinate young man avail against
such a miserable combination of adverse
influences  ' when the stars in their courses
fought against Sisera '? And at this juncture
of her thoughts she could feel Phillis's
hand folding softly over hers with a most
sisterly pressure of full understanding and
sympathy. Phillis had no Dick to stand
sentinel over her private thoughts ; she was
free to be alert and vigilant for others.
Nevertheless, her forehead was puckered up
with hard thinking, and her silence was so
very expressive that Dulce sat and looked at
her with grave unsmiling eyes, the innocent
child-look in them growing very pathetic at
the speechlessness that had overtaken them.
As for Mrs. Challoner, she still moaned feebly

from time to time, as she stretched her
numb hands towards the comforting warmth.
They were fine delicate hands with the polished
look of old ivory, and there were diamond
rings on them that twinkled and shone as she
moved them in her restlessness.

They shall all go ; I will keep nothing
she said, regarding them plaintively; for
they were heirlooms, and highly valued as
relics of a * wealthy past.' ' It is not this
sort of thing that I mind. I would live on a
crust thankfully, if I could only keep my
children with me ] and she looked round at
the blooming faces of her girls with eyes
brimming over with maternal fondness.

Poor Dulce's lip quivered, and she made a
horrified gesture.

Oh, manse, don't talk so ! I never
could bear crusts, unless they were well
buttered. I like everything to be nice, and
to have plenty of it  plenty of sunshine, and
fun, and holiday-making, and friends ; and 
and now you are talking as though we must
starve, and never have anything to wear, and
go nowhere, and be miserable for ever.' And
here Dulce broke into actual sobs ; for was

VOL. I. 8

she not the petted darling ? and had she not
had a life so gilded by sunshine, that she
had never seen the dark edge of a single
cloud ? So that even Nan forgot Dick for a
moment, and looked at her young sister
pityingly ; but Phillis interposed with bracing
severity.

 Don't talk such nonsense, Dulce. Of
course we must eat to live, and of course we
must have clothes to wear. Aren't Nan and
I thinking ourselves into headaches by trying
to contrive how even the crusts you so
despise are to be bought ?' which was hardly
true, as far as Nan was concerned ; for she
blushed guiltily over this telling point in
Phillis's eloquence. ' It only upsets mother
to talk like this ;' and then she touched the
coals skilfully, till they spluttered and blazed
into fury. ' There is the Friary, you know,'
she continued, looking calmly round on them,
as though she felt herself full of resources.
If Dulce chooses to make herself miserable
about the crusts, we have, at least, a roof to
shelter us.'

I forgot the Friary,' murmured Nan,
looking at her sister with admiration ; and,

though Mrs. Challoner said nothing, she
started a little as though she had forgotten it
too. But Dulce was not to be comforted.

That horrid, dismal, pokey old cottage !'
she returned, with a shrill rendering of each
adjective. * You would have us go and live
in that damp, musty, fusty place ?'

Phillis gave a succession of quick little
nods.

I don't think it particularly dismal, or
Nan either,' she returned, in her brisk way.
Phillis always answered for Nan, and was
never contradicted. ' It is not dear Glen
Cottage, of course ; but we could not begin
munching our crusts here,' she continued,
with a certain grim humour. Things were
apparently at their worst ; but at least she
Phillis  the clever one, as she had heard
herself called, would do her best to keep the
heads of the little family above water. * It
is a nice little place enough, if we were only
humble enough to see it ; and it is not damp,
and it is our own,' running up the advantages
as well as she could.

The Friaiy !' commented her mother in
some surprise ;  to think of that queer old

82

cottage coming into your head ! And it so
seldom lets. And people say it is dear at
forty pounds a year ; and it is so dull, that
they do not care to stay.'

Never mind all that, mammy returned
Phillis, with a grave business-like face. * A
cottage, rent free, that will hold us, is not to
be despised; and Hadleigh is a nice place,
and the sea always suits you. There is the
house and the furniture, that belongs to us ;
and we have plenty of clothes for the present.
How much did Mr. Trinder think we should
have in hand ?'

Then her mother told her, but still mournfully,
that they might possibly have about a
hundred pounds. * But there are my rings,
and that piece of point-lace that Lady

Fitzroy admires so ' but Phillis waved

away that proposition with an impatient
frown.

There is plenty of time for that when we
have got through all the money ; not that a
hundred pounds would last long, with moving,
and paying off the servants, and all that sort
of thing.'

Then Nan, who had worn all along an expression

of admiring confidence in Phillis's
resources, originated an idea of her ovn.

The mother might write to uncle Francis,
perhaps ;' but at this proposition Mrs. Challenger
sat upright, and looked almost offended.

My dear Nan, what a preposterous idea !
Your uncle Francis !'

Well, mammy, he is our uncle ; and I am
sure he would be sorry if his only brother's
children were to starve.'

You are too young to know any better,'
returned Mrs. Challoner, relapsing into
alarmed feebleness; * you are not able to judge.
But I never liked my brother-in-law  never ;
he was not a good man. He was not a
person whom one could trust,' continued the
poor lady, trying to soften down certain facts
to her innocent young daughters.

Sir Francis Challoner had been a black
sheep  a very black sheep indeed : one who
had dyed himself certainly to a most sable
hue ; and though, for such prodigals, there
may be a late repentance and much killing of
fatted calves, still Mrs. Challoner was right
in refusing to entrust herself and her children
to the uncertain mercies of such a sinner.

Now Nan knew nothing about the sm ; but
she did think that an uncle who was a
baronet threw a certain reflected glory or
brightness over them. Sir Francis might be
that very suspicious character  a black
sheep ; he might be landless, with the exception
of that ruined tenement in the north ;
nevertheless, Nan loved to know that he was
of their kith and kin. It seemed to settle
their claims to respectability, and held Mr.
Mayne in some degree of awe ; and he knew
that his own progenitors had not the faintest
trace of blue blood, and numbered more
aldermen than baronets.

It would have surprised and grieved Nan,
especially just now, if she had known that no
such glory remained to her  that Sir Francis
Challoner had long filled the cup of his iniquities,
and lay in his wife's tomb in some
distant cemetery, leaving a certain redheaded
Sir Harry to reign in his stead.

I don't think Vve had better talk anymore,'
observed Phillis somewhat brusquely;
and then she exchanged meaning looks with
Nan. The two girls were somewhat dismayed
at their mother's wan looks; her feebleness

and uncertainty of speech, the vciy vagueness
of her lamentations filled them with sad
forebodings for the future. How were they
to leave her, when they commenced that little
fight with the world ? She had leaned on
them so long that her helplessness had become
a matter of habit.

Nan understood her sister's warning glance,
and she made no further allusion to Sir
Francis ; she only rose with assumed briskness,
and took her mother in charge.

Now I am going to help you to bod,
mammy darling,' she said cheerfully. ' Phillis
is quite right, we will not talk any more tonight
; we shall want all our strength for
tomorrow. We will just say our prayers,
and try and go to sleep, and hope that things
may turn out better than we expect ;' and as
Mrs. Challoner was too utterly spent to resist
this wise counsel, Nan achieved her pious
mission with some success. She sat down
by the bedside and leaned her head against
her mother's pillow, and soon had the satisfaction
of hearing the even breathing that proved
that the sleeper had forgotten her troubles fora
little while.

'Poor dear mother, how exhausted she
must have been !' thought Nan, as she closed
the door softly. She was far too anxious and
wide awake herself to dream of retiring to
rest. She was somewhat surprised to find
her sisters' room dark and empty as she passed.
They must be still downstairs talking over
things in the firelight; they were as little
inclined for sleep as she was. Phillis's carefully
decocted tea must have stimulated them
to wakefulness.

The room was still bright with firelight.
Dulce was curled up in her mother's chair,
and had evidently been indulging in what she
called ' a good cry Phillis, sombre and
thoughtful, was pacing the room with her
hands clasped behind her head, a favourite
attitude of hers when she was in any perplexity.
She stopped short as Nan regarded
her with some astonishment from the threshold.

Oh, come in Nan ; it will be such a relief
to talk to a sensible person. Dulce is so
silly, she does nothing but cry.'

I can't help it,' returned Dulce, with
another sob ; * everything is so horrible, and
Phillis will say such dreadful things.'

Poor little soul !* said Nan, in a sympathetic
voice, sitting down on the arm of the chair
and stroking Dulce's hair ; * it is very hard for
her, and for us all,' with a pent-up sigh.

Of course it is hard,' retorted Phillis, confronting
them rather impatiently from the
hearth rug ; * it is bitterly hard. But it is
not worse for Dulce than for the rest of us.
Crying will not mend matters, and it is a
sheer waste of tears. As I tell her, what we
have to do now is to make the best of things,
and see what is to be done under the circumstances


'Yes indeed,' repeated Nan meekly; but
she put her arm round Dulce, and drew her
head against her shoulder. The action comforted
Dulce, and her tears soon ceased to
flow.

I am thinking about mother,* went on
Phillis, pondering her words slowly as she
spoke ; * she does look so ill and weak. I do
not see how we are to leave her.'

Mrs. Challoncr's moral helplessness and
dread of responsibility were so sacred in her
daughters' eyes that they rarely alluded to it
except in this vague fashion. For years they

lead shielded and petted her, and given way
to her little fads and fancies, until she had
developed into a sort of gentle hypochondriac.

Mother cannot bear this ; we always keep
these little worries from her,' Nan had been
accustomed to say ; and the others had followed
her example.

The unspoken thought lay heavy upon them
now. How were they to prevent the rough
winds of adversity from blowing too roughly
upon their cherished charge ? The roof, and
perhaps the crust, might be theirs ; but hove
were they to contrive that she should not miss
her little comforts ? They would gladly work,
but how, and after what fashion ?

Phillis was the first to plunge into the
unwelcome topic, for Nan felt almost as helpless
and bewildered as Dulce.

We must go into the thing thoroughly,'
began Phillis, drawing a chair opposite to her
sisters. She was very pale, but her eyes had
a certain brightness of determination. She
looked too young for that quiet careworn look
that had come so suddenly to her ; but one
felt she could be equal to any emergency.
 We are down-hearted, of course ; but we

have plenty of time for all that sort of thing.
The question is, how are we to live ?'

Just so observed Nan, rather dubiously ;
and Dulce gave a little gasp.

There is the Friary standing empty ; and
there is the furniture ; and there will be about
fifty pounds, perhaps less, when everything is
settled. And we have clothes enough to last

some time, and ' here Dulce put her hands

together pleadingly, but Phillis looked at her
severely, and went on : ' Forty or fifty
pounds will soon be spent, and then we shall
be absolutely penniless ; we have no one to
help us. Mother will not hear of writing to
uncle Francis : we must work ourselves, or
starve.'

Couldn't we let lodgings T hazarded
Dulce, with quavering voice; but Phillis
smiled grimly.

Let lodgings at the Friary ! why, it is only
big enough to hold us. We might get a larger
house in Hadleigh ; but no, it would be
ruinous to fail, and perhaps we should not
make it answer. I cannot fancy mother
lisping in the basement story ; she would make
herself wretched over it. We are too young.

I don't think that would answer, Nan ; do
you?'

Nan replied faintly that she did not think
it would. The mere proposition took her
breath away. What would Mr. Mayne say
to that ? Then she plucked up spirit and went
into the question vigorously.

There were too many lodging-houses in
Hadleigh now ; it would be a hazardous speculation,
and one likely to fail; they had not
su&cient furniture for such a purpose, and
they dare not use up their little capital too
quickly. They were too young, too, to carry
out such a thing. Nan did not add, ' and too
pretty though she coloured and hesitated
here. Their mother could not help them; she
was not strong enough for housework or
cooking. She thought that plan must be
given up.

We might be daily governesses, and live at
home,' suggested Dulce, who found a sort of
relief in throwing out feelers in every direction.
Nan brightened up visibly at this, but Phillis's
moody brow did not relax for a moment.

That would be nice,' acquiesced Nan,
and then mother would not find the day so

long if we came home in the evening ; she
could busy herself about the house, and we
could leave her little things to do, and she
would not find the hours so heavy. I like
that idea of yours, Dulce ; and we are all so
fond of children.'

The idea is as nice as possible,' replied
PhilHs, with an ominous stress on the noun,
if we could only make it practicable

Phil is going to find fault pouted Dulce,
who knew every inflection of Phillis's voice.

Oh dear no, nothing of the kind !' she
retorted briskly. * Nan is quite right  we all
doat on children. I should dearly like to bea
governess myself  it would be more play
than work; but I am only wondering who
would engage us.'

alio ?  oh, anybody !' returned Nan, feeling
puzzled by the smothered satire of Phillis's
speech. * Of course we are not certificated,
and I for one could only teach young children ;
but ' here Phillis interrupted her.

Don't think me horrid if I ask you and
Dulce some questions, but do  do answer me
just as though I were going through the
Catechism : we are only girls, but we must

sift the whole thing thoroughly. Are we fit
for governesses ? what can you and I and
Dulce teach ?'

'Oh, anything!' returned Nan, still more
vaguely.

My dear Nanny, anything won't do.
Come, I am really in earnest ; I mean to
catechize you both thoroughly.'

Very well returned Nan, in a resigned
voice ; but Dulce looked a little frightened.
As for Phillis, she sat erect, with her linger
pointed at them in a severely ominous fashion.

How about history, Nan ? I thought you
could never remember dates; you used to
jumble facts in the most marvellous manner.
I remember your insisting that Anne of
Clever was Louis XII. *s second wife ; and you
shocked Miss Martin dreadfully by declaring
that one of Marlborough's victories was fought
at Cressy.'

I never could remember historical facts,'
returned Nan humbly. * Dulce always did
better than I ; and so did you, Phillis. When
I teach the children I can have the book
before me.' But Phillis only shook her head
at this, and went on :

Dulce was a liable better, but I don't
believe she could tell me the names of the
English sovereigns in proper sequence ;' but
Dulce disdained to answer. * You were
better at arithmetic, Nan. Dulce never got
through her rule of three ; but you were
not very advanced even at that. You write a
pretty hand, and you used to talk French very
fluently

Oh, I have forgotten my French!' exclaimed
Nan, in a panic-stricken voice.
Dulce, don't you remember we quite settled
to talk in French over our work three times a
week, and v/e have always forgotten it ; and we
were reading Madame de Seine's *' Letters "
together, and I found the book the other day
quite covered with dust.'

*I hate French,' returned Dulce rebel -
piously. * I began German with Phillis, and
like it much better.'

True, but we are only beginners,' returned
the remorseless Phillis ; * it was very nice, of
course, and the 'Taugenichts " was delicious;
but think how many words in every sentence
you had to hunt out in the dictionary I am
glad you feel so competent, Dulce ; but I could

not teach German myself, or French either.
I don't remember enough of the grammar ;
and I do not believe Nan does either, though
she used to chatter so to Miss Martin.'

Did I not say she would pick our idea to
pieces T returned Dulce, with tears in her
eyes.

My dear little sister, don't look so dreadfully
pathetic. I am quite as disheartened
and disappointed as you are. Nan says she
has forgotten her French, and she will have
to teach history with an open book before her ;
we none of us draw  no, Dulce, please let
me finish our scanty stock of accomplishments.
I only know my notes  for no one
cares to hear me lumber through my pieces 
and I sing at church. You have the sweetest
voice, Dulce, but it is not trained ; and I
cannot compliment you on your playing.
Nan sings and plays very nicely, and it is
a pleasure to listen to her ; but I am afraid
she knows little about the theory of music,
harmony and thorough-bass  you never did
anything in that way, did you. Nan T

Nan shook her head sadly. She was too
discomfited for speech. Phillis looked at

them both thoughtfully ; her trouble was very
real, but she could not help a triumphant
inflection in her voice.

Dear Nan, please do not look so unhappy.
Dulce, you shall not begin to cry again.
Don't you remember what mother was reading
to us the other day, about the country being
flooded with incompetent governesses  half-educated
girls turned loose on the world to
earn their living ? I can remember one
sentence of that writer, word for word.
** The standard of education is so high at the
present day, and the number of certificated reliable
teachers so much increased, that we can
afford to discourage the crude efforts to teach,
or un-teach, our children." And then he goes
on to ask, " What has become of womanly conscientiousness,
when such ignorance presses
forward to assume such sacred responsibilities ?
Better the competent nurse than the incompetent
governess." *'Whydo not these girls,"
he asks, '* who, through their own fault or
the fault of circumstances, are not sufficiently
advanced to educate others  wli} do they
not rather discharge the exquisitely feminine
duties of the nursery ? Yllat an advantage to

VOL. I. i)

parents to have their little ones brought into
the earliest contact with refined speech and
cultivated manners  their infant ears not inoculated
by barbarous English !'' ' but here
Phillis was arrested in her torrent of reflected
wisdom by an impatient exclamation from
Dulce.

'Oh, Nan, do ask her to be quiet ! She
never stops when she once begins. How can
we listen to such rubbish, when we are so
wretched ? You may talk for hours, Phil,
but I never, never will be a nurse !' and Dulce
hid her face on Nan's shoulder in such undisguised
distress, that her sisters had much ado
to comfort her.

WE SHOULD HAVE TO CARRY PARCELS.

BrT was hard work to tranquillize
myf Dulce.

I never, never will be a nurse
she sobbed out at intervals.

You little goose, who ever thought of
such a thing ? Why will you misunderstand
me so ?' sighed Phillis, almost in despair at
her sister's impracticability. ' I am only trying
to prove to you and Nan that we are not
fit for governesses.'

No, indeed ; I fear you are right there,*
replied poor Nan, who had never realized her
deficiencies before. They where all bright,
taking girls, with plenty to say for themselves
; ladylike, and well-bred. Who would

D 2

have thought that, when weighed m the
balance, they woukl have been found so
wanting ? ' I always knew I was a very
stupid person ; but you are different  you
are so clever, Phil.'

Nonsense, Nanny ! it is a sort of cleverness
for which there is no market. I am
fond of reading. I remember things, and doa
great deal of thinking ; but I am destitute
of accomplishments  my knowledge of
languages is purely superficial. We are equal
to other girls  just young ladies, and nothing
more ; but when it comes to earning our

bread-and-butter ' Here Phillis paused,

and threw out her hands with a little gesture
of despair.

But you work so beautifully ; and so does
Nan,' interrupted Dulce, who was a little
comforted now she knew Phillis had no prospective
nursemaid theory in view. * I am
good at it myself,' she continued modestly,
feeling, in this case, self-praise was allowable.
We might be companions  some nice old
lady who wants her caps made, and requires
some one to read to her,' faltered Dulce, with
her childlike pleading look.

Nan gave her a little hug ; but she left the
answer to Phillis, who went at once into a
brown study, and only woke up after a long
interval.

*I am looking at it all round,' she said,
when san at last pressed for her opinion ;
 it is not a bad idea. I think it very
possible that either you or I, Xan  or both,
perhaps  might find something in that line to
suit us. There are old ladies everywhere ;
and some of them are rich and lonely, and
want companions.'

You have forgotten me !' exclaimed
Dulce, with natural jealousy, and a dislike
to be overlooked, inherent in most young
people. ' And it is I who have always made
mammy's caps ; and you know how Lady
Fitzroy praised the last one.'

Yes, yes ; we know all that,' returned
Philos impatiently. * You are as clever as
possible with your fingers ; but one of us
must stop with mother, and you are the
youngest, Dulce  that is what I meant by
looking at it all round. If Nan and I were
away, it would never do for you and mother
to live at the Friary. AVe could not afford a

servant, and we should want the forty pounds
a year to pay for bare necessaries ; for our
salary would not be very great. You would
have to live in lodgings  two little rooms,
that is all ; and even then I am afraid you
and mother would be dreadfully pinched, for
we should have to dress ourselves properly in
other people's houses.'

'Oh, PhilHs, that would not do at all!'
exclaimed Nan, in a voice of despair. She
was very pale by this time : full realization
of all this trouble was coming to her, as it
had to Phillis. ' What shall we do ? Who
will help us to any decision ? How are you
and I to go away and live luxuriously in
other people's houses, and leave mother and
Dulce pining in two shabby little rooms, with
nothing to do, and perhaps not enough to eat,
and mother fretting herself ill, and Dulce
losing her bloom ? I could not rest ; I could
not sleep for thinking of it. I would rather
take in plain needlework, and live on dry
bread, if we could only be together, and help
each other.'

So would I,' returned Phillis, in an odd,
muffled voice.

And I too rather hesitatingly from
Dulce.

If we could only live at the Friary, and
have Dorothy to do all the rough work
sighed Nan, with a sudden yearning towards
even that very shabby ark of refuge ; ' if we
could only be together, and see each other
every day, things would not be quite so
dreadful.'

I am quite of your opinion,' was Phillis's
curt observation; but there was a sudden
gleam in her eyes.

I have heard of ladies working for fancy -
shops  do you think we could do something
of that kind ?' asked Nan anxiously. ' Even
mother could help us in that ; and Dulce
does work so beautifully. It is all very well
to say we have no accomplishments,' went on
Nan, with a pathetic little laugh ; ' but you
know that no other girls work as we do.
We have always made our own dresses. And
Lady Fitzroy asked me once who was our
dressmaker, because she fitted us so exquisitely
; and I was so proud of telling her
that we always did our own, with Dorothy to
help '

 Nan interrupted Phillis eagerly ; and
there was a great softness in her whole mien,
and her eyes were glistening. ' Dear Nan,
do you love us all so that you could give the
whole world for our sakes  for the sake of
living together, I mean ?'

Nan hesitated. Did the whole world involve
Dick, and could even her love for her
sisters induce her voluntarily to give him up ?
Phillis, who was quick-witted, read the doubt
in a moment, and hastened to qualify her
words.

The outside world, I mean  mere conventional
acquaintances, not friends. Do you
think you could bear to set society at defiance,
to submit to be sent to Coventry for our sakes ;
to do without it in fact, to live in a little world
of our own and make ourselves happy in it ?'

Ah, Phillis, you are so clever, and I don't
understand you,' faltered Nan. It was not
Dick she was to give up ; but what could
Phillis mean ? ' We are all fond of society ;
we are like other girls, I suppose. But if weare
to be poor and work for our living, I
dare say people will give us up.*

I am not meaning that,' returned her

sister earnestly ; * it is something far harder,
something far more difficult, something that
will be a great sacrifice and cost ns all
tremendous efforts. But if we are to keep a
roof over our heads, if we are to live together
in anything like comfort, I don't see what else
we can do, unless we go out as companions,
and leave mother and Dulce in lodgings

Oh, no, no ; pray don't leave us !' implored
Dulce, feeling all her strength and
comfort lay near Nan.

I will not leave you, dear, if I can possibly
help it,' returned Nan gently. ' Tell us
what you mean, Phillis, for I see you have
some sort of plan in your head. There is
nothing  nothing,' she continued more firmly,
that I would not do to make mother and
Dulce happy. Speak out ; you are half
afraid that I shall prove a coward, but you
shall see.'

'Dear Nan, no ; you are as brave as
possible. I am rather a coward myself.
Yes, I have a plan ; but you have yourself put
it into my head by saying what you did about
Lady Fitzroy.'

About Lady Fitzroy ?'

Yes ; your telling her about our making
our own dresses. Nan, you are right ; needlework
is our forte ; nothing is a trouble to us.
Few girls have such clever fingers, I believe ;
and then you and Dulce have such taste.
Mrs. Paine once told me that we were the
best-dressed girls in the neighbourhood, and
she wished Carrie looked half as well. I am
telling you this, not from vanity, but because
I do believe we can turn our one talent to
account. "We should be miserable governesses;
we do not want to separate and seek
situations as lady helps or companions ; we
do not mean to fail in letting lodgings  but if
we do not succeed as good dressmaker,
never believe me again.'

Dressmakers 1' almost shrieked Dulce.
But Nan, who had expressed herself willing to
take in plain needlework, only looked at her
sister with mute gravity ; her little world was
turned so completely upside down, everything
was so unreal, that nothing at this moment
could have surprised her.

Dressmakers!' she repeated vaguely.

Yes, yes,' replied Phillis, still more eagerly.
The inspiration had come to her in a moment,

full-fledged and grown-up, like Minerva from
the head of Jupiter. Just from those chance
words of Nan's she had grasped the whole
thing in a moment. Now, indeed, she felt
that she was clever ; here at least was something
striking and original ; she took no
notice of Dulce's shocked exclamation ; she
fixed her eyes solemnly on Nan. * Yes, yes ;
what does it matter what the outside world
says ? "We are not like other girls  we never
were ; people always said we were so original.
Necessity strikes out strange paths sometimes.
We could not do such a thing here  no, no, I
never could submit to that myself,' as Nan
involuntarily shuddered ; ' but at Hadleigh,
where no one knows us, where we shall be
among strangers. And then, you see, Miss
Monks is dead.'

Oh dear  oh dear ! what does she mean T
cried Dulce despairingly ; * and what do we
care about Miss Monks, if the creature be
dead  or about Miss Anybody, if we have
got to do such dreadful things ?'

My dear,' returned Phillis, with compassionate
irony, ' if we had to depend upon you
for ideas ' and here she made an eloquent

jDause. ' Our last tenant for the Friary was
Miss Monks, and Miss Monks was a dressmaker
; and though perhaps I ought not to say
it, it does seem a direct leading of Providence,
putting such a thought into my head

I am afraid Dulce and I are very slow
and stupid,' returned Nan, putting her hair
rather wearily from her face ; her pretty
colour had quite faded during the last half-hour.
' I think if you would tell us plainly,
exactly what you mean, Phillis, we should be
able to understand everything better

My notion is this,' began Phillis slowly ;
 remember, I have not thought it quite out,
but I will give you my ideas just as they
occur to me. We will not say anything
to mother just yet, until we have thoroughly
digested our plan. You and I, Nan, will run
down to the Friary and reconnoitre the place,
judge of its capabilities, and so forth ; and
when we come back we will hold a family
council.'

That will be best,' agreed Nan, who remembered,
with sudden feelings of relief, that
Dick and his belongings would be safe in the
Engadine by that time. ' But, Phillis, do you

really and truly believe that we could carry
out such a scheme T

Why not ?' was the bold answer. ' If
we can work for ourselves, we can for other
people. I have a presentiment that we shall
achieve a striking success. We will make
the old Friary as comfortable as possible
she continued cheerfully. ' The good folk of
Hadleigh will be rather surprised when they
see our pretty rooms. No horsehair sofa ;
no crochet antimacassars or hideous wax-flowers
 none of the usual stock-in-trade.
Dorothy will manage the house for us ; and
we will all sit and work together, and mother
will help us, and read to us. Aren't you
glad, Nan, that we all saved up for that
splendid sewing-machine ?'

I do believe there is something after all
in what you say,' was Nan's response ; but
Dulce was not so easily won over.

Do you mean to say that we shall put up
a brass plate on the door, with '* Challoner,
dressmaker," on it ?' she observed indignantly,
k red glow mounted to Nan's forehead
; and even Phillis looked disconcerted.

I never thought of that  well, perhaps

not. "We might advertise at the Library, or
put cards in the shops. I do not think
mother would ever cross the threshold if she
saw a brass plate.'

'No, no; I could not bear that,' said Nan
faintly. A dim vision of Dick standing at
the gate, ruefully contemplating their name
  her name  in juxtaposition with ' dressmaker,'
crossed her mind directly.

But we should have to carry parcels, and
stand in people's halls, and perhaps fit Mrs.
Squalls, the grocer's wife  that fat old thing,
you know. How would you like to make a
dress for Mrs. Squalls, Phil ?' asked Dulce,
with the malevolent desire of making Phillis
as uncomfortable as possible; but Phillis,
who had rallied from her momentary discomfiture,
was not to be again worsted.

Dulce, you talk like a child ; you are
really a very silly little thing. Do you think
any work can degrade us, or that we shall
not be as much gentlewomen at Hadleigh as
we are here ?'

But the parcels ?' persisted Dulce.

I do not intend to carry any,' was the
imperturbable reply. ' Dorothy will do that ;

or we will hire a boy. As for waiting in
halls, I don't think anyone will ask me to do
that, as I should desire to be shovn into a
room at once ; and, as for Mrs. S quails, if
the poor old woman honours me with her
custom, I will turn her out a gown that shall
be the quyj of Hadleigh.'

Dulce did not answer this, but the droop
of her lip was piteous ; it melted Phillis at
once.

Oh, do cheer up, you silly girl !' she
said, with a coaxing face. ' What is the
good of making ourselves more miserable
than we need ? If you prefer the two little
rooms with mother, say so ; and Nan and I
will look out for old ladies at once.'

No ! no ! Oh, pray, don't leave me !'
still more piteously.

Well, what will you have us do ? Wee
cannot starve ; and we don't mean to beg.
Pluck up a little spirit, Dulce ; see how good
Nan is ! You have no idea how comfortable
we should be !' she went on, with judicious
word-painting. ' We should all be together 
that is the great thing. Then we could talk
over our work ; and in the afternoon, when

we felt dreary, mother could read some interesting
novel to us  a tremulous sigh from
Nan at this point.

What a contrast to the afternoons at Glen
Cottage  tennis, and yq o'clock tea, and the
company of their young friends ! Phillis
understood the sigh, and hurried on.

It will not be always work. We will
have long country walks in the evening ; and
then there will be the garden, and the seashore.
Of course we must have exercise and
recreation. I am afraid we shall have to do
without society, for no one will visit ladies
under such circumstances ; but I would rather
do without people than without each other,
and so would Nan.'

eyes, indeed!' broke in Nan; and now
the tears were in her eyes.

Dulce grew suddenly ashamed of herself.
She got up in a little flurry, and kissed them
both.

I was very naughty ; but I did not mean
to be unkind. I would rather carry parcels,
and stand in halls  yes, and even make
gowns for Mrs. Squalls  than lose you both.
I will be good. I will not worry you anymore,

Phil, with my nonsense ; and I will
work  you will see how I will work,' finished
Dulce breathlessly.

There's a darling !' said Nan ; and then
she added in a tired voice, * But it is two
o'clock  and Dick is coming this morning
to say good-bye ; and I want to ask you both
particularly not to say a word to him about
this. Let him go away and enjoy himself, and
think we are going on as usual ; it would
spoil his holiday ; and there is always time
enough for bad news,' went on Nan, with a
little tremble of her lip.

Dear Nan, we understand,' returned
Phillis gently ; * and you are right, as you
always are. And now to bed  to bed,' she
continued, in a voice of enforced cheerfulness
; and then they all kissed each other
very quietly and solemnly, and crept up as
noiselessly as possible to their rooms.

Phillis and Dulce shared the same room ;
but Nan had a little chamber to herself very
near her mother's  a door connected the
two rooms. Nan closed this carefully, when
she had ascertained that Mrs. Challoner was
still sleeping, and then sat down by the

VOL. I. 10

window, and looked out into the gray glimmering
light that preceded the dawn.

Sleep ! how could she sleep, with all these
thoughts surging through her mind, and
knowing that in a few hours Dick would come
and say good-bye ? and here Nan broke down,
and had such a fit of crying as she had not
had since her father died ; nervous, uncontrollable
tears, that it was useless to stem
in her tired, overwrought state.

They exhausted her, and disposed her for
sleep. She was so chilled and weary, that
she was glad to lie down in bed at last and
close her eyes ; and she had scarcely done so
before drowsiness crept over her, and she
knew no more until she found the sunshine
flooding her little room, and Dorothy standing
by her bed, asking rather crossly why no
one seemed disposed to wake this beautiful
morning.

Am I late ? oh, I hope I am not late !'
exclaimed Nan, springing up in a moment.
She dressed herself in quite a flurry, for fear
she should keep anyone waiting. It was only
at the last moment she remembered the outburst
of the previous night, and wondered

with some dismay what Dick would think
of her pale cheeks, and the reddened lines
round her eyes, and only hoped that he would
not attribute them to his going away. Nan
was only just in time, for as she entered the
breakfast-room Dick came through the
veranda, and put in his head at the window.

Not at breakfast yet ! and where are the
others ?' he asked, in some surprise, for the
Challoners were early people, and very regular
in their habits.

We sat up rather late last night talking,'
returned Nan, giving him her hand without looking
at him, and yet Dick showed to advantage
this morning in his new tweed travelling-suit.

Well, I have only got ten minutes. I
managed to give the pater the slip ; he will becoming
after me, I believe, if I stay longer.
This is first-rate, having you all to myself this
last morning. But what's up. Nan ? you don't
seem quite up to the mark. You are palish,

you know, and ' here Dick paused in

pained embarrassment. Were those traces of
tears ? had Nan really been crjdng ? was she
sorry about his going away ? And now there
was an odd lump in Dick's throat.

lU 2

Nan understood the pause, and got frightened.


It is nothing. I have a slight headache ;
there was a little domestic worry that wanted
putting to rights stammered Nan ; 'it
worried me, for I am stupid at such things,
you know

She was explaining herself somewhat
lamely, and to no purpose, for Dick did
not believe her in the least. * Domestic
worry !' as though she cared for such rubbish
as that ; as though any amount could make
her cry  her, his bright high-spirited Nan !
No ; she had been fretting about their long
separation, and his father's unkindness, and
the difficulties ahead of them.

I want you to give me a rose,' he said
suddenly, a jrojws of nothing, as it seemed ;
but looking up, Nan caught a wistful gleam in
his eyes, and hesitated. Was it not Dick who
had told her that anecdote about the Queen or
was it Lothair ? and did not a certain meaning
attach to this gift ? Dick was for ever
picking roses for her ; but he had never given
her one, except with that meaning look on his
face.

You are hesitating he said, reproachfully
; * and on my last morning, when we
shall not see each other for months And
Nan moved towards the veranda slowly, and
gathered a crimson one without a word, and
put it in his hand.

Thank you,' he said quite quietly ; but he
detained the hand as well as the rose fora
moment. ' One day I will show you this
again, and tell you what it means if you do
not know ; and then we shall see, ah, Nan,

my ' He paused as Phillis's step entered

the room, and said hurriedly, in a low voice,
Good-bye ; I will not go in again. I don't
want to see any of them, only you  only you.
Good-bye ; take care of yourself for my
sake, Nan !' and Dick looked at her wistfully,
and dropped her hand.

Has he gone T asked Phillis, looking up
in surprise as her sister came through the
open window ; * has he gone without finding
anything out T

Yes, he has gone, and he does not know
anything replied Nan in a subdued voice, as
she seated herself behind the urn. It was
over now, and she was ready for anything.

Not like other Girls.

Take care of yourself for my sake, Nan !' 
that was ringing in lier ears ; but she had
not said a word in reply. Only the rose lay
in his hand  her parting gift, and perhaps
her parting pledge.

A LONG DAY.

SAN never recalled the memory of
'Cn|| that Mong gray day as she 
hardly termed it, without a shiver
of discomfort.

Never but once in her bright young life
had she known such a day, and that was
vrhen her dead father lay in the darkened
house, and her widowed mother had crept
weeping into her arms as to her only remaining
refuge ; but that stretched so far back into
the past that it had grown into a vague
remembrance.

It was not only that Dick was gone,
though the pain of that separation was far
greater than she would have believed possible,

but a moral earthquake had shattered their
little world, involving them in utter chaos.

It was only yesterday that she was singing
ballads in the Longmead drawing-room 
only yesterday ; but to-day everything was
changed. The sun shone, the birds sang,
everyone ate and drank and moved about
as usual. Nan talked and smiled, and no
stranger would have guessed that much was
amiss ; nevertheless, a weight lay heavy on
her spirits, and Nan knew in her secret heart
that she could never be again the same lighthearted,
easy-going creature that she was
yesterday.

Later on, the sisters confessed to each
other that the day had been perfectly interminable
; the hours dragged on slowly, the
sun seemed as though it never meant to set ;
to add to their trouble, their mother looked so
ill when she came downstairs, wrapped in her
soft white shawl in spite of the heat, that
Nan thought of sending for a doctor, and only
refrained at the remembrance that they had
no right to such luxuries now except in cases
of necessity.

Then Dorothy was in one of her impracticable

moods, throwing cold water on all her
young mistress's suggestions, and doing her
best to disarrange the domestic machinery.
Dorothy suspected a mystery somewhere ; her
young ladies had sat up half the night, and
looked pale and owlish in the morning. If they
chose to keep her in the dark, and not take
her into their confidence, it was their affair ;
but she meant to show them what she thought
of their conduct. So she contradicted and
snapped, until Nan told her wearily that she
was a disagreeable old thing, and left her and
Susan to do as they liked. She knew Mr.
Trinder was waiting for her in the diningroom,
and as Mrs. Challoner was not well
enough to see him, she and Phillis must
entertain him.

He had slept at a friend's house a few
miles from Oldfield, and was to lunch at Glen
Cottage, and take the afternoon train to
London.

He was not sorry when he heard Mrs.
Challoner was too indisposed to receive him.
In spite of his polite expressions of regret, he
had found the poor lady terribly trying on the
previous evening. She was a bad manager

and had muddled her affairs, and she did not
seem to understand half he told her ; and her
tears and lamentations when she had realized
the truth had been too much for the softhearted
old bachelor, though people did call
him a woman-hater.

But I never could bear to see a woman
cry ; it is as bad as watching an animal in
pain,' he half-growled, as he drew out his red
pocket-handkerchief and used it rather noisily.

It was easier work to explain everything
to these two bright, sensible girls. Phillis
listened and asked judicious questions ; but
Nan sat with downcast face, plaiting the
table-cloth between her restless fingers, and
thinking of Dick at odd intervals.

She took it all in, however, and roused up
in earnest when Mr. Trinder had finished
his explanations, and Phillis began to talk in
her turn ; she was actually taking the old
lawyer into her confidence, and detailing
their scheme in the most business-like way.

The mother does not know yet  this is
all in confidence ; but Nan and I have made
up our minds to take this step,' finished the
young philosopher calmly.

'Bless my soul T ejaculated Mr. Trader 
he had given vent to this expression at various
intervals, but had not further interrupted her.
Bless my soul ! my dear young ladies, I
think  excuse me if I am too abrupt, but you
must be dreaming

Phillis shook her head smilingly ; and as
Dorothy came into the room that moment to
lay the luncheon, she proposed a tui-n in the
garden, and fetched Mr. Trinder's hat herself,
and guided him to a sidewalk, where they
could not be seen from the drawing-room
windows. Nan followed them, and tried to
keep step with Mr. Trinder's shambling footsteps,
as he walked between the girls with
a hot perplexed face, and still muttering to
himself at intervals.

It is all in confidence,' repeated Phillis, in
the same calm voice.

And you are actually serious  you are
not joking T

Do your clients generally joke when they
are ruined T returned Phillis, with natural
exasperation. ' Do you think Nan and I are
in such excellent spirits that we could
originate such a piece of drollery ? Excuse

me, Mr. Trinder, but I must say I do not
think your remark quite well timed ;' and
Phillis turned away with a little dignity.

No, no ! now you are put out, and no
wonder!' returned Mr. Trinder soothingly;
and he stood quite still on the gravel path,
and fixed his keen little eyes on the two
young creatures before him  Nan with her
pale cheeks and sad eyes, and Phillis, alert,
irritated, full of repressed energy. ' Dear,
dear! what a pity!' groaned the old man ;
two such bonnie lasses ! and to think a little
management and listening to my advice would
have kept the house over your heads ! if only
your mother would have hearkened to me!'

It is too late for all that now, Mr.
Trinder,' replied Phillis impatiently; * isn't
it waste of time crying over spilt milk when
we must be taking our other goods to market ?
We must make the best of our poor little commodities,'
sighed the girl. ' If we were only
clever and accomplished we might do better ;

but now ' and Phillis left her sentence

unfinished, which was a way she had, and
which people thought very telling.

But, my dear young lady, with all your

advantages, and ' here Phillips interrupted

him rather brusquely.

What advantages ? do you mean we had
a governess ? Well, we had three, one after
the other ; and they were none of them likely
to turn out first-rate pupils. Oh, we are well
enough compared to other girls ! if we had
not to earn our own living, we should not be
so much amiss. But, Nan, why don't you
speak ? why do you leave me all the hard
work ? Did you not tell us last night that
you were not fit for a governess T

Nan felt rather ashamed of her silence after
this. It was true that she was leaving all the
onus of their plan on Phillips, and it was certainly
time for her to come to her rescue. So
she quietly but rather shylj endorsed her
sister's speech, and assured Mr. Trinder that
they had carefully considered the matter from
every point of view ; and though it was a very
poor prospect, and involved a great deal of
work and self-sacrifice, she. Nan, thought
that Phillips was right, and that it was the
best, indeed the only thing they could do
under the circumstances.

For myself, I prefer it infinitely to letting

lodgings finished Nan; and Phillips looked at
her gratefully.

But Mr. Trinder was obstinate, and had old-fashioned
views, and argued the whole thing in
his dictatorial masculine way. They sat down
to luncheon and presently sent Dorothy away 
a piece of independence that bitterly offended
that crabbed but faithful individual  and
wrangled busily through the whole of the meal.

Mr. Trinder never could remember afterwards
whether it was lamb or mutton he had
eaten ; he had a vague idea that Dulce had
handed him the mint-sauce, and that he had
declined it and helped himself to salad. The
doubt disturbed him for the first twenty miles
of his homeward journey. * Good gracious,
for a man not to know whether he is eating-lamb
or mutton !' he soliloquized, as he vainly
tried to enjoy his usual nap ; ' but then I
never was so upset in my life. Those pretty
creatures, and Challengers too  bless my soul !'
and here the lawyer's cogitations became confused
and misty.

Nan, who had more than once seen tears
in the lawyer's shrewd little gray eyes,
had been very gentle and tolerant over the

old man's irritability ; but Phillis had resented
his caustic speeches somewhat hotly.
Dulce, who was on her best behaviour, was
determined not to interfere or say a word
to thwart her sisters ; she even went so far as
to explain to Mr. Trinder that they would not
have to carry parcels, as Phillis meant to hire
a boy. She had no idea that this magnanimous
speech was in a figurative manner
the last straw that broke the camel's back. Mr.
Trinder pushed back his chair hastily, made
some excuse that his train must be due, and
beat a retreat an hour before the time, unable
to pursue such a painful subject any longer.

Nan rose with a sigh of relief, as soon as
the door closed upon their visitor, and took
refuge in the shady drawing-room with her
mother, whom she found in a very tearful,
querulous state, requiring a great deal of
soothing. They had decided that no visitors
were to be admitted that afternoon.

You may say your mistress is indisposed
with a bad headache, Dorothy, and that weare
keeping the house quiet,' Nan remarked
with a little dignity', with the remembrance of
that late passage of arms.

'Very well, Miss Nan,' returned the old
servant. However, she was a little cowed by
Nan's manner ; such an order had never before
been given in the cottage. Mrs. Challoner's
headaches were common events in everyday
life, and had never been known before to
interfere with their afternoon receptions. A
little eau de Cologne and extra petting  a
stronger cup of tea served up to her in her
bedroom, had been the only remedies ; the
girls had always had their tennis as usual,
and the sound of their voices and laughter
had been as music in their mother's ears.

Very well. Miss Nan,' was all Dorothy
ventured to answer ; but she withdrew with a
face puckered up with anxiety. She took in
the tea-tray unbidden at an earlier hour than
usual ; there were Dulce's favourite hot cakes,
and some rounds of delicately buttered toast,
for the young ladies have not eaten above a
morsel at luncheon,' said Dorothy in explanation
to her mistress.

Never mind us,' returned Nan, with a
friendly nod at the old woman ; ' it has been
so hot to-day.' And then she coaxed her
mother to eat, and made believe herself to

enjoy the repast ; and the sweet cake crumbled
in her fingers, as she wondered how many
more evenings they would spend in the pretty
drawing-room on which they had expended so
much labour.

Nan had countermanded the late dinner,
which they all felt would be a pretence and
mockery ; and as Mrs. Challenger's headache
refused to yield to the usual remedies, she
was obliged to retire to bed as soon as the
sun set, and the three girls went out in the
garden, and walked up and down the lawn
with their arms interlaced, while Dorothy
watched them from the pantry window, and
wiped away a tear or two, as she washed up
the tea-things.

How I should like a long walk!' exclaimed
Dulce impatiently. ' It is so narrows and confined
here ; but it would never do  we should
meet people.'

No, it would never do,' agreed her sisters,
feeling a. fresh pang that such avoidance
was necessary They had never hidden
anything before, and the thought that this
mystery lay between them and their friends
was exquisitely painful.

VOL. I. 11

I feel as though I never cared to see one
of them again!' sighed poor Nan, for which
speech she was rather sharply rebuked by
Philip.

They settled a fair amount of business
before they went to bed that night ; and when
Dorothy brought in the supper-tray, bearing
a little covered dish in triumph, which she
set down before Nan, Nan looked at her with
grave, reproachful eyes, in which there was a
great deal of kindness.

You should not do this, Dorothy,' she said
very gently ; * we cannot afford such delicacies
now

It is your favourite dish, Miss Nan,'
returned Dorothy, quite ignoring this remark.
Susan has cooked it to a nicety ; but it will
be spoiled if it is not eaten hot.' And she
stood over them while Nan dispensed the
dainty. 'You must eat it while it is hot,'
she kept saying as she fidgeted about the
room, taking up things and putting them
down again. Phillis looked at Nan with a
comical expression of dismay.

Dorothy, come here,' she exclaimed at
last, pushing away her plate. * Don't you

see that Susan is wasting all her talents onus,
and that we can't eat to-day ?'

Everyone can eat if they try, Miss Phillis,'
replied Dorothy oracularly. ' But a thing like
that must be hot, or it is spoiled.'

Oh, never mind about it being hot,*
returned Phillis, beginning to laugh. She
was so tired, and Dorothy was such a droll
old thing ; and how were even stewed pigeons
to be appetizing under the circumstances ?

Oh, you may laugh,' began Dorothy, in an
offended tone ; but Phillis took hold of her
and nearly shook her.

*0h, what a stupid old thing yow. arc!
Don't you know what a silly, aggravating
old creature you can be when you like ? If I
laugh, it is because everything is so ludicrous
and wretched. Nan and Dulce are not
laughing.'

*No, indeed,' put in Dulce; * we are far,
far too unhappy !'

What is it, Miss Nan ?' asked Dorothy,
sidling up to her in a coaxing manner. * I
am only an old servant, but it was me that
put Miss Dulce in lor futlicr's arms  *the
pretty lamb," as he called her ; and she with

112

a skin like a lily. If there is trouble, you
would not keep it from her old nurse, surely ?'

No, indeed, Dorothy ; we want to tell you,'
returned Nan, touched by this appeal; and
then she quietly recapitulated the main points
that concerned their difficulties  their mother's
loss, their future poverty, the necessity for
leaving Glen Cottage and settling down at
the Friary.

We shall all have to work,' finished Nan,
with prudent vagueness, not daring to entrust
their plan to Dorothy ; ' the cottage is small,
and, of course, we can only keep one servant.'

I dare say I shall be able to manage if you
will help me a little,' returned Dorothy, drying
her old eyes with the corner of her apron.
Dear, dear ! to think of such an affliction
coming upon my mistress and the dear young
ladies ! It is like an earthquake or a flood,
or something sudden and unexpected  Lord
deliver us ! And to think of my speaking
crossly to you, Miss Nan, and you with all
this worry on your mind !'

'We will not think of that,' returned Nan
soothingly. ' Susan's quarter will be up
shortly, and we must get her away as soon

as possible. My great fear is that the work
may be too much for you, poor Dorothy ; and
that  that  we may have to keep you waiting
sometimes for your wages she added,
rather hesitatingly, fearing to offend Dorothy's
touchy temper, and yet determined to put the
whole matter clearly before her.

I don't think we need talk about that,'
returned Dorothy, with dignity. * I have
not saved up my wages for nineteen years
without having a nest-egg laid up for rainy
days. Wages  when I mention the word.
Miss Nan,' went on Dorothy, waxing somewhat
irate, ' it will be time enough to enter
upon that subject. I haven't deserved such
a speech ; no, that I haven't,' went on
Dorothy, with a sob. ' Wages indeed !'

Now, nurse, you shan't be cross with
Nan,' cried Dulce, throwing her arms round
the old woman ; for in spite of her eighteen
years she was still Dorothy's special charge.
She's quite right ; it may be an unpleasant
subject, but we will not have you working for
us for nothing.'

Very well. Miss Dulce,' returned Dorothy,
in a choked voice, preparing to withdraw ;

but Nan caught hold of the hard work-worn
hand, and held her fast.

Oh, Dorothy, you would not add to our
trouble now, when we are so terribly unhappy !
I never meant to hurt your feelings by what
I said. If you will only go to the Friary and
help us to make the dear mother comfortable,
I, for one, will be deeply grateful.'

And you will not talk of wages T asked
Dorothy, mollified by Nan's sweet, pleading
tones.

Not until we can afford to do so,' returned
Nan hastily, feeling that this was a safe compromise,
and that they should be eked out
somehow. And then, the stewed pigeons being
regarded as a failure, Dorothy consented to
remove the supper-tray, and the long day was
declared at an end.

THE Frisky.

Field was rather mystified by
the Challoners' movements. There
were absolutely three afternoons
during which Nan and her sisters were invisible.
There was a tennis-party at the
Paines' on one of these days, but at the last
minute they had excused themselves. Nan's
prettily worded note was declared very vague
and unsatisfactory, and on the following afternoon
there was a regular invasion of the
cottage : Carrie Paine, and two of the
Twentyman girls, and Adelaide Sartoris, and
her young brother Albert.

They found Dulce alone, looking very sad
and forlorn.

Nan and Phillis had gone down to Hadleigh

that morning she explained, in rather
a confused way ; ' they were not expected
back until the following evening

On being pressed by Miss Sartoris as to the
reason of this sudden trip, she added, rather
awkwardly, that it was on business  her
mother was not well  oh, very far from well ;
and they had to look at a house that belonged
to them, as the tenant had lately died.

This was all very plausible ; but Dulce's
manner was so constrained, and she spoke
with such hesitation, that Miss Sartoris was
convinced that something lay behind. They
went out in the garden, however, and chose
sides for their game of tennis ; and though
Dulce had never played so badly in her life,
the fresh air and exercise did her good, and
at the end of the afternoon she looked a little
less drooping.

It was felt to be a failure, however, by the
whole party ; and when tea was over, there
was no mention of a second game. ' No, we
will not stay any longer,' observed Isabella
Twentyman, kissing the girl with much
affection. ' Of course we understand that
you will be wanting to sit with your mother.

Yes, and if you do not come in tomorrow
we shall quite know how it is added Miss
Sartoris good-naturedly, for which Dulce
thanked her and looked relieved.

She stood at the hall-door watching them
as they walked down the village swinging
their rackets and talking merrily.

What happy girls !' she thought, with a
sigh. Miss Sartoris was an heiress, and the
Twentymans were rich, and everyone knew
that Carrie and Sophy Paine would laye
money. ' None of them will have to work,'
said poor Dulce sorrowfully to herself ; ' they
can go on playing tennis and driving and
riding and dancing as long as they like ;' and
then she went up to her mother's room with
lagging footsteps and a cloudy brow.

You may depend upon it there is something
amiss with those Challoners,' said Miss
Sartoris, as soon as they were out of sight of
the cottage ; ' no one has seen anything of
them for the last three or four days, and I
never saw Dulce so unlike herself.'

Oh, I hope not,' returned Carrie gravely,
who had heard enough from her father to
guess that there was pecuniary embarrassment

at the bottom. ' Poor little thing, she did
seem rather subdued. How many people do
you expect to muster tomorrow, Adelaide T
and then Miss Sartoris understood that the
subject was to be changed.

While Dulce was trying to entertain her
friends, Nan and Phillis were reconnoitring
the Friary.

They had taken an early train to London,
and had contrived to reach Hadleigh a little
before three. They went first to Beach
House  a small unpretending house on the
Parade kept by a certain Mrs. Motley, with
whom they had once lodged after Dulce had
had the measles.

The good woman received them with the
utmost cordiality. Her place was pretty
nearly filled, she told them proudly; the
drawing-room had been taken for three
months, and an elderly couple were in the
dining-room.

 But there is a bedroom I could let you
have for one night,' finished Mrs. Motley,
and there is the little side parlour where
you could have your tea and breakfast.' And
when Nan had thanked her, and suggested the

addition of chops to their evening meal, they
left their modest luggage and set out for the

Phillis would have gone direct to their
destination, but Nan pleaded for one turn on
the Parade. She wanted a glimpse of the
sea, and it was such a beautiful afternoon.

The tide was out, and the long black breakwaters
were uncovered ; the sun was shining
on the wet shingles and narrow strip of yellow
sand. The sea looked blue and unruffled, with
little sparkles and gleams of light, and white
sails glimmered on the horizon. Some boatmen
were dragging a boat down the beach ;
it grated noisily over the pebbles. A merry
party were about to embark  a tall man ina
straw hat and two boys in knickerbockers.
Their sisters were watching them. ' Oh,
legge, do be careful !' Nan heard one of the
girls say, as he waded knee-deep into the water.

Come, Nan, we ought not to dawdle like
this !' exclaimed Phillis impatiently ; and they
went on quickly  past the long row of old-fashioned
white houses with the green before
them, and that sweet Sussex border of soft
feathery tamarisk ; and then past the cricket-field,

and down to the whitewashed cottages
of the Preventive Station ; and then they
turned back and walked towards the Sterne,
and after that Nan declared herself satisfied.

There were plenty of people on the Parade,
and most of them looked after the two girls as
they passed. Nan's sweet bloom and graceful
carriage always attracted notice ; and Phillis,
although she generally suffered from comparison
with her sister, was still very uncommon-looking.


I should like to know who those young
ladies are,' observed a military-looking man
with a white moustache, who was standing at
the library door waiting for his daughter to
make some purchases. ' Look at them,
Elizabeth : one of them is such a pretty girl,
and they walk so well.'

Dear father, I suppose they are only some
new-comers ; we shall see their names down
in the visitors' list by-and-by ;' and Miss
Middleton smiled as she took her father's
arm, for she was slightly lame. She knew
strangers always interested him, and that he
would make it his business for the next few
days to find out everything about them.

Did you see that nice-looking woman T
asked Phillis, when they had passed. * She
was quite young, only her hair was grey 
fancy, a grey-haired girl !'

Oh, she must be older than she looks,'
returned Nan indifferently.

She was not looking at people ; she was
far too busily engaged identifying each well-remembered
spot.

There was the shabby little cottage where
she and her mother had once stayed after an
illness of Mrs. Challoner's. What odd little
rooms they had occupied, looking over a
strip of garden-ground full of marigolds !
Marigolds-all-in-a-row Cottage ' she had
named it in her home letters. It was nearly
opposite the White House where Mrs. Cheyne
lived. Nan remembered her, a handsome
sad-looking woman, who always wore black,
and drove out in such handsome carriages.

'Always alone  how sad!' Nan thought;
and she wondered, as they walked past the
low stone walls with grassy mounds sloping
from them, and a belt of shrubbery shutting
cut views of the house, whether Mrs. Cheyne
lived there still.

They lead reached a quiet country corner
now ; there was a clump of trees, guarded
by posts and chains ; a white house stood
far back. There were two or three other
houses, and a cottage dotted down here and
there. The road looked shady and inviting.
Nan began to look about her more cheerfully.


I am glad it is so quiet, and so far away
from the town, and that our neighbours will
not be able to overlook us.'

*1 was just thinking of that as a disadvantage,'
returned Phillis, with placid opposition.
* It is a pity, under the circumstances,
that we are not nearer the town ;' and after
that Nan held her peace.

They were passing an old-fashioned house
with a green door in the wall, when it suddenly
opened, and a tall, grave-looking young man,
in clerical attire, came out quickly upon them,
and then drew back to let them pass.

I suppose that is the new vicar ?' whispered
Phillis, when they had gone a few steps.
 You know poor old Dr. Margrave is dead,
and most likely that is his successor.'

I forgot that was the Vicarage,' returned

Nan. But Happily she did not turn round to
look at it again ; if she had done so, she
would have seen the young clergyman still
standing by the green door watching them.
It is a shabby, dull old house in front ; but
I remember when mother and I returned Mrs.
Margrave's call, that we were shown into
such a dear old-fashioned drawing-room, with
windows looking out on such a pleasant
garden. I quite fell in love with it.'

Well, we shall be near neighbours
observed Phillis somewhat shortly, as she
paused before another green door, set in a
long blank wall ; ' for here we are at the
Friars and I had better just run over the
way, and get the key from Mrs. Crump.'

Nan nodded, and then stood like an
image of patience before the shabby green
door. Would it open and let them into a
new untried life ? What sort of finding hopes,
of dim regrets, would be left outside when
they crossed the threshold ? The thought of
the empty rooms, not yet swept and garnished,
made her shiver ; the upper windows looked
blankly at her, like blind, unrecognising eyes.
She was quite glad when Phillis joined her

again, swinging the key on her little finger,
and humming a tune in forced cheerfulness.

What a dull, shut-in place ! I think the
name of Friary suits it exactly,' observed
Nan disconsolately, as they went up the little
flagged path, bordered with lilac bushes. * It
feels like a miniature convent or prison ; we
might have a grating in the door, and answer
all outsiders through it.'

Nonsense !' returned Phillis, who was
determined to take a bright view of things.
Don't go into the house just yet ; I want to
see the garden ;' and she led the way down a
gloomy side-path, with dipped box and
yews, that made it dark and decidedly damp.
This brought them to a little lawn, with tall,
rank grass that might have been mown for
hay, and some side-beds full of old-fashioned
flowers, such as lupins and monkshood, pinks
and small pansies ; a dreary little greenhouse,
with a few empty flower-pots and a
turned-up box, was in one corner, and an
attempt at a rockery, with a periwinkle
climbing over it, and an undesirable number
of oyster shells.

An old medlar-tree, very warped and

gnarled, was at the bottom of the hxwu, and
beyond this a small kitchen-garden, with
abundance of gooseberry and currant bushes,
and vast resources in shape of mint, marjoram,
and lavender.

Oh dear, oh dear ! what a wretched little
place after our dear old Glen Cottage garden !'
and in spite of her good resolutions Nan's
eyes grew misty.

Comparisons are odious,' retorted Phillis
briskly. * We have just to make the best of
things  and I don't deny they are horrid 
and put all the rest away, between lavender,
on the shelves of our memory ;' and she smiled
grimly as she picked one of the grey spiky
flowers.

And then as they walked round the weedy
paths, she pointed out how different it would
look when the lawn was mown, and all the
weeds and oyster-shells removed, and the box
and yews clipped, and a little paint put on the
green-house.

And look at that splendid passion-flower,
growing like a weed over the back of the
cottage,' she remarked with a wave of her
hand ; * it only wants training and nailing up.

VOL. I. 12

Poor Miss Monks has neglected the garden
shamefully ; but then she was always ailing

They went into the cottage after this. The
entry was rather small and dark. The kitchen
came first ; it was of a tolerable size apartment,
with two windows looking out on the
lilacs, and the green door, and the blank wall.

I am afraid Dorothy will find it a little
dull,' Nan observed rather ruefully. And
again she thought the name of Friary was
well given to this gruesome cottage ; but she
cheered up when Phillis opened cupboards
and showed her a light little scullery, and
thought that perhaps they could make it
comfortable for Dorothy.

The other two rooms looked upon the
garden ; one had three windows, and was
really a very pleasant parlour.

'This must be our work-room,' began
Phillis solemnly, as she stood in the centre
of the empty room, looking round her with
bright knowing glances. ' Oh, what an ugly
paper. Nan ! but we can easily put up a
prettier one. The smaller room must be
where we live and take our meals ; it is not
quite so cheerful as this. It is so nice having

this side window; it will give us more light,
and we shall be able to see who comes in at
the door

Yes, that is an advantage,' assented Xan.
She was agreeably surprised to find such
a good-sized room in the cottage ; it was
decidedly low, and the windows were not
plate-glass, but she thought that on summer
mornings they might sit there very comfortably
looking out at the lawn and the medlar-tree.


We shall be glad of these cupboards,' she
suggested, after a pause, while Phillis took
out sundry pieces of tape from her pocket,
and commenced making measurements in a
business-like manner. ' Our work will make
such a litter, and I should like things to be
as tidy as possible. I am thinking,' she
continued, ' we might have mother's great
carved wardrobe in the recess behind the
door. It is really a magnificent piece of
furniture, and in a work-room it would not
be so out of place ; we could hang up the
finished and unfinished dresses in it out of the
dust. And we could have the little drawing-room
chifi'onnier between the windows for our

122

pieces, and odds and ends in the cupboards.
It is a pity our table is round ; but perhaps
it will look all the more comfortable. The
sewing-machine must be in the side window
added Nan, who was quite in her element
now, for she loved all housewifely arrangements
; * and mother's easy-chair and little
table must stand by the fireplace. My
davenport will be useful for papers and
accounts.'

'It is really a very convenient room,' returned
Phillis in a satisfied voice, when they
had exhausted its capabilities ; and though
the second parlour was small and dull in
comparison, even Nan dropped no disparaging-word.


Both of them agreed it would do very well.
There was a place for the large roomy couch
that their mother so much affected, and their
favourite chairs and knick-knacks would soon
make it look cosy ; and after this they went
upstairs hand in hand.

There were only four bedrooms, and two
of these were not large ; the most cheerful
one was of course allotted to their mother,
and the next in size must be for Phillis and

Dulce. Nan was to have a small one next to
her mother.

The evening was drawing on by the time
they had finished their measurements and left
the cottage. Nan, who was tired and wanted
her tea, was for hurrying on to Beach House ;
but Phillis insisted on calling at the Library.
She wanted to put some inquiries to Miss
Milner. To-morrow they would have the
paper-hanger, and look out for a gardener,
and there was Mrs. Crump to interview about
cleaning dovn the cottage.

Oh, very well,' returned Nan wearily, and
she followed Phillis into the shop, where
good-natured bustling Miss Milner came to
them at once.

Phillis put the question to her in a low
voice, for there were other customers exchanging
books over the counter. The same
young clergyman they had before noticed had
just bought a local paper, and was waiting
evidently for a young lady who was turning
over some magazines quite close to them.

Do we know of a good dressmaker in the
place ?' repeated Miss Milner in her loud
cheerful voice, very much to Nan's discomfort.

for the clergyman looked up from his paper at
once. ' Miss Monks was a tolerable fit 
but, poor thing ! she died a few weeks ago ;
and Mrs. Slasher, who lives over Finer's the
haberdasher's, cannot hold a candle to her.
Miss Masham, there '  pointing to a smart
ringleted young person, evidently her assistant
' had her gown ruined by her  hadn't you.
Miss Masham T

Miss Masham simpered, but her reply was
inaudible ; but the young lady who was
standing near them suddenly turned round.

There is Mrs. Langley, who lives just by.
I shall be very happy to give these ladies her
address, for she is a widow with little
children, and I am anxious to procure her

work ' and then she looked at Nan, and

hesitated ; * that is, if you are not very
particular,' she added with sudden embarrassment,
for even in her morning dress there
was a certain style about Nan that distinguished
her from other people.

Thank you. Miss Drummond,' returned
Miss Milner gratefully. ' Shall I write down
the address for you, ma'am ?'

Yes  no  thank you very much, but

perhaps it does not matter returned Kan
hurriedly, feeling awkward for the first time
in her life. But Phillis, who realized all the
humour of the situation, interposed.

The address will do us no harm, and we
may as well have it, although we should not
trouble Mrs. Langley. I will call in again,
Miss Milner, tomorrow morning, and then
I will explain what it is we really want.
We are in a hurry now,' continued Phillis
loftily, turning away with a dignified inclination
of her head towards the officious stranger.

Phillis was not prepossessed in her favour.
She was a dark, wiry little person  not exactly
plain, but with an odd, comical face ; and she
was dressed so bodily and with such utter
disregard of taste, that Phillis instinctively
felt Mrs. Langley was not to be dreaded.

What a queer little body ! Do you think
she belongs to him ?' she asked Nan, as they
walked rapidly towards Beach House.

What in the world made you strike in
after that fashion ?' demanded the young man,
as he and his companion followed more slowly
in the strangers' footsteps ; * that is just your
way, Mattie, interfering and meddling in other

folks' affairs. Why cannot you mind your
own business sometimes,' he continued irritably,
' instead of putting your foot into other
people's T

You are as cross as two sticks this afternoon,
Archie,' returned his sister composedly.
She had a sharp little pecking voice that
seemed to match her, somehow; for she was
not unlike a bright-eyed bird, and had quick
pouncing movements. * Wait a moment ; my
braid has got torn, and is dragging.'

I wish you would think a little more of my
position, and take greater pains with your appearance,'
returned her brother, in an annoyed
voice. * What would Grace say to see what
a fright you make of yourself ! It is a sin
and a shame for a woman to be untidy or
careless in her dress  it is unfeminine  it is
unladylike !' hurling each separate epithet at
her.

Perhaps Miss Drummond was used to
these compliments, for she merely pinned her
braid without seeming the least put out.

I think I am a little shabby,' she remarked
tranquilly, as they at last walked on.
Perhaps Mrs. Langley had better make mea

dress too,' with a laugh, for in spite of her
sharp voice, she was an even-tempered little
body ; but this last remark only added fuel to
his wrath.

You really have less sense than a child.
The idea of recommending a person like Mrs.
Langley to those young ladies  a woman who
works for Miss Masham !'

They were very plainly dressed, archie,'
returned poor Mattie, who felt this last snub
acutely ; for if there was one thing upon
which she prided herself, it was her good
sense. * They had dark print dresses  not
as good as the one I have on  and nothing
could be quieter.'

Oh, you absurd little goose !' exclaimed
her brother, and he burst into a laugh, for
the drollery of the comparison restored him
to instant good-humour. ' If you cannot seethe
difference between that frumpish gown of
yours, with its little obtains and fringes, and
those pretty dresses before us, I must say
you are as blind as a bat, Mattie.'

Oh, never mind my gown !' returned Mattie,
with a sigh.

She had had these home-thrusts to meet

and parry nearly every day, ever since lie
had come to keep house for this fastidious
brother. She was a very active, bustling
little person, who had done a great deal of
tough work in her day ; but she never could
be made to see that unless a woman add the
graces of life to the cardinal virtues, she is
comparatively speaking a failure in the eyes
of the other sex.

So though Mattie was a frugal housekeeper,
and worked from morning to night in his
service  the veriest little drudge that vas
ever seen  she was a perpetual eyesore to her
brother, who loved feminine grace and repose
whose tastes were fastidious and somewhat
arbitrary. And so it was poor Mattie had
more censure than praise, and wrote home
piteous letters complaining that nothing she
did seemed to satisfy Archie ; and that her
mother had made a great mistake in sending
her, and not Grace, to preside over his bachelor
establishment.

Oh, Phillis, how shall we have courage to
publish our plan !' exclaimed Nan, when they
were at last discussing the much-needed tea
and chops in the little parlour at Beach House.

The window was wide open. The returning
tide was coming in with a pleasant ripple and
wash over the shingle. The Parade was
nearly empty ; but some children's voices
sounded from the green space before the
houses. The brown sail of a fishing craft
dipped into the horizon. It was so cool, so
quiet, so restful ; but Nan's eyes were weary,
and she put the question wistfully.

Phillis looked into the teapot to gain a
moment's reprieve ; the corners of her month
had an odd pucker in them.

 I never said it was not hard,' she burst
out at last. ' I felt like a fool myself while I
was speaking to Miss Milner; but then that
clergyman was peeping at us between the
folds of his paper. He seemed a nice-looking
gentlemanly sort of man. Do you think that
queer little lady in the plaid dress could be
his wife ? Oh no ; I remember Miss Milner
addressed her as Miss Drummond. Then she
must be his sister  how odd !'

Why should it be odd ?' remarked Nan
absently, who had not particularly noticed
them. .

Oh, she was such a dowdy little thing,

not a bit nice-looking, and he was quite
handsome, and looked rather distinguished.
You know I always take stock of people, and
make up my mind about them at once. And
then we are to be such close neighbours.'

I don't suppose we shall see much of
them,' was Nan's somewhat depressed reply ;
and then, as they had finished their tea, they
placed themselves at the open window, and
began to talk about the business of next day ;
and, in discussing cupboards and new papers,
Nan forgot her fatigue, and grew so interested
that it was quite late before they thought of
retiring to rest.

TELL US ALL ABOUT IT, NAN,

AN overslept herself, and was ratlie.v
late the next morning ; but as
she entered the parlour, with an
exclamation of penitence for her tardiness,
she found her little speech was addressed to
the empty walls. A moment after a shadow
crossed the window, and Phillis came in.

She went up to Nan and kissed her, and
there was a gleam of fun in her eyes.

Oh, you lazy girl!' she said ; ' leaving me
all the hard work to do. Do you know, I
have been round to the Library, and have
had it all out with Miss Milner ; and in the
Sterne I met the clergyman again, and,
would you believe it, he looked quite disappointed
because you were not there !'

Nonsense !' returned Nan sharply. She
never Heed these sort of joking speeches;
they seemed treasonable to Dick.

Oh, but he did,' persisted Phillis, who
was a little excited and reckless after her
morning's work.  He threw me a disparaging
glance, which said as plainly as possible,
'' Why are you not the other one ?" That
comes from having a sister handsomer than
one's self.'

Oh, Phillis ! when people always think
you so nice, and when you are so clever !'

Phillis got up and executed a little curtsey
in the prettiest way, and then she sank down
upon her chair in pretended exhaustion.

What I have been through ! But I have
come out of it alive. Confess, now, there's a
dear, that you could not have done it !'

No, indeed with an alarmed air. ' Do
you really mean to say that you actually told
Miss Milner what we meant to do ?'

I told her everything. There, sit down
and begin your breakfast, Nan, or we shall
never be ready. I found her alone in the
shop. Thank goodness, that Miss Masham
was not there. I have taken a dislike to

that simpering young person, and would
rather make a dress for Mrs. Squails any day
than for her. I told her the truth, without
a bit of disguise. Would you believe it, the
good creature actually cried about it ! she
quite upset me, too. *' Such young ladies !
dear, dear! one does not often see such," she
kept saying over and over again. And then
lie put out her hand and stroked my dress, and
said, '' Such a beautiful fit, too ; and to think
you have made it yourself! such a clever
young lady ! Oh dear ! what ever will Mr.
Drummond and Miss Mattie say ?" Stupid
old thing ! as though Vv'e cared what he said!'
Oh, Phillis ! and she cried over it ?'
She did indeed. I am not exaggerating.
Two big round tears rolled down her cheeks.
I could have kissed her for them. And then
she made me sit down in the little room
behind the shop, where she was having her
breakfast, and poured me out a cup of tea,

and ' But here Nan interrupted her,

and there was a trace of anxiety in her
manner.

Poured you out a cup of tea ! Miss
Milner ! And you drank it ?'

Of course I drank it ; it was very good,
and I was thirsty

But here Nan pounced upon her unexpectedly,
and dragged her to the window.

Your fun is only make-believe ; there is
no true ring about it. Let me see your eyes.
Oh, Phil, Phil ! I thought so ! You have
been crying, too !'

Phillis looked a little taken aback. Nan
was too sharp for her. She tried to shake
herself free a little pettishly.

Well, if I choose to make a fool of myself
for once in my life, you need not be silly
about it ; the old thing was so upsetting, and
and it was so hard to get it out.' Phillis
would not have told for worlds how utterly
she had broken down over that task of hers ;
how the stranger's sympathy had touched so
painful a chord, that before she knew what
she was doing, she had laid her head down on
the counter, and was crying like a baby  all
the more that she had so bravely pent up her
feelings all these days that she might not
dishearten her sisters.

But as Nan petted and praised her, she did
tell how good Miss Milner had been to her.

Fancy a fat old thing like that having
such fine feelings she said, with an attempt
to recover her sprightliness. * She was as
good as a mother to me ; made me sit in the
easy chair, and brought me some elder-flower
water to bathe my eyes, and tried to cheer
me up by saying that we should have plenty
of work. She has promised not to tell anyone
just yet about us ; but when we are really
in the Friary she will speak to people and
recommend us, and  ' here Phillis gave a
little laugh  ' we are to make up a new black
silk for her that her brother has just sent her.
Oh, dear, what will mother say to us. Nan ?'
And Phillis looked at her in an alarmed,
beseeching way, as though in sore need of
comfort.

Nan looked grave ; but there was no hesitation
in her answer.

I am afraid it is too late to think of that
now, Phil ; it has to be done, and we must
just go through with it.'

You are right, Nanny darling, we must
just go through it,' agreed Phillis; and then
they went on with their unfinished breakfast,
and after that the business of the day began.

VOL. I. 13

It was late in the evening when they
reached home. Dulce, who was at the gate
looking out for them, nearly smothered them
with kisses.

Oh, you dear things ! how glad I am to
get you back!' she said, holding them both.
Have you really only been away since
yesterday morning ? It seems a week, at
least.'

You ridiculous child ; as though we believe
that. But how is mother ?'

Oh, pretty well ; but she will be better
now you are back. Do you know,' eyeing
them both very gravely, * I think it was a
wise thing of you to go away like that ; it
has shown me that mother and I could not
do without you at all  we should have pined
away in those lodgings ; it has quite reconciled
me to the plan,' finished Dulce, in a
loud whisper that reached her mother's
ears.

What plan ? What are you talking about,
Dulce ? and why do you keep your sisters
standing in the hall ?' asked Mrs. Challoner,
a little irritably. But her brief nervousness
vanished at the sight of their faces ; she

wanted nothing more, she told herself, hut
to see them round her, and hear their voices.

She grew quite cheerful when Phillis told
her about the new papers, and how Mrs.
Crump was to clean down the cottage ; and
how Crump had promised to mow the grass,
and paint the greenhouse, and Jack and
Bobbin were to weed the garden-paths.

It is a perfect wilderness now, mother 
you never saw such a place.'

Never mind, so that it will hold us, and
that we shall all be together,' she returned,
with a smile. * But Dulce talked of some
plan  you must let me hear it, my dears ;
you must not keep me in the dark about
anything. I know we shall all have to
work,' continued the poor lady ; * but if
wo be all together, if you will promise
not to leave me, I think I could bear anything.'


Are we to tell her ?' motioned Nan with
her lips to Phillis; and as Phillis nodded
Yes,' Nan gently and quietly began unfolding
their plan.

But with all her care and all Phillis's
promptings, the revelation was a great shock

132

to Mrs. Challoner ; in her weakened state she
seemed hardly able to bear it.

Dulce repented bitterly of her incautious
whisper when she saw her sisters' tired faces,
and their fruitless attempts to soften the effects
of such a blow. For a little while Mrs. Challenger
seemed on the brink of despair ; she
would not listen ; she abandoned herself to
lamentations ; she became so hysterical at last
that Dorothy was summoned from the kitchen
and taken into confidence.

Mother, you are breaking our hearts,' Nan
said, at last. She was kneeling at her feet,
chafing her hands, and Phillis was fanning
her ; but she pushed them both away from
her with weak violence.

It is I whose heart is breaking ! Why
must I live to see such things ? Dorothy,
do you know my daughters are going to be
dressmakers ?  my daughters, who are Challengers
 who have been delicately nurtured 
who might hold up their heads with anyone ?'

Dorothy, hold your tongue !' exclaimed
Phillis peremptorily. * You are not to speak ;
this is for us to decide, and no one else.
Mammy, you are making Nan look quite pale ;

she is dreadfully tired, and so am I. Why
need we decide anything to-night ? Everyone
is upset and excited, and when that is the
case one can never arrive at any proper conclusion.
Let us talk about it tomorrow,
when we are rested;' and though Mrs. Challenger
would not allow herself to be comforted.
Nan's fatigue and paleness were so visible to
her maternal eyes that they were more
eloquent than Phillis's words.

I must not think only of myself. Yes,
yes. I will do as you wish. There will be
time enough for this sort of talk tomorrow.
Dorothy, will you help me ? The young
ladies are tired ; they have had a long journey.
No, my dear, no,' as Dulce pressed forward ;

I would rather have Dorothy,' and as the
old servant gave them a warning glance they
were obliged to let her have her way.

Mammy has never been like this before,'
pouted Dulce, when they were left alone.

She drives us away from her as though we
had done something purposely to vex her.'

It is because she cannot bear the sight of
us to-night,' returned Phillis solemnly. * It
is worse for her than for us ; a mother feels

things for her children more than for herself ;
it is nature, that is what it is she finished
philosophically ; ' but she will be better tomorrow,'
and after this the miserable little
conclave broke up.

Mrs. Challoner passed a sleepless night,
and her pillow was sown with thorns. To
think of the Challoners falling so low as this !
To think of her pretty Nan, her clever, bright
Phillis, her pet Dulce coming to this ; oh, the
pity of it !' she cried, in the dark hours, when
vitality runs lowest, and thoughts seem to
flow involuntarily towards a dark centre.

But with the morning came sunshine, and
her girls' faces  a little graver than usual,
perhaps, but still full of youth and the brightness
of energy ; and the sluggish nightmare of
yesterday's grief began to fade a little.

Now, mammy, you are not going to be
naughty to-day,' was Dulce's morning salutation
as she seated herself on the bed.

Mrs. Challoner smiled faintly.

Was I very naughty last night, Dulce ?'

Oh, as bad as possible. You pushed poor
Nan and Phillis away, and would not let anyone
come near you but that cross old Dorothy,

and you never bade us good-night ; but if you
promise to be good, I will forgive you and
make it up,' finished Dulce, with those light
butterfly kisses to which she was addicted.

Now, Chatterton, it is my turn,' interrupted
Phillis; and then she began a carefully
concocted little speech, very cleverly drawn
out to suit her mother's sensitive peculiarities.

She went over the old ground patiently
point by point. ]\[rs. Challoner shuddered at
the idea of letting lodgings.

I knew you would agree with us,' returned
Phillis, with a convincing nod ; and then she
went on to the next clause.

Mrs. Challoner argued a great deal about
the governess scheme. She was quite angry
with Phillis, and seemed to suffer a great deal
of self-reproach when the girl spoke of their
defective education and lack of accomplishments.
Nan had to come to her sister's
rescue ; but the mother was slow to yield the
point.

I don't know what you mean. My girls
are not different to other girls. What would
your poor father say if he were alive ? It is
cruel to say this to me, when I stinted myself

to give you every possible advantage  and I
paid Miss Martin eighty pounds a year she
concluded tearfully, feeling as though she were
the victim of a fraud.

She was far more easily convinced that
going out as companions would be impracticable
under the circumstances. ' Oh no, that
will never do !' she cried, when the two little
rooms with Dulce were proposed ; and after
this Phillis found her task less difficult. She
talked her mother over at last to reluctant
acquiescence with her plan. ' I never knew
how I came to consent,' she said afterwards,
but they were too much for me.'

We cannot starve. I suppose I must give
in to you she said at last; ' but I shall never
holdup my head again and she really believed
what she said.

Mother, you must trust us replied
Phillis, touched by this victory she had won.
Do you know what I said to Dulce ? ' Work
cannot degrade us. Though we are dressmakers,
we are still Challoners. Nothing can
make us lose our dignity and self-respect as
gentlewomen." '

Other people will not recognise it,' returned

her mother, with a sigh.  You will
lose caste. No one will visit you. Among
your equals you will he treated as an inferior.
It is this that hows me to the earth with
shame.'

Mother, how can you talk so !' cried Nan,
in a clear indignant voice.  What does it
matter if people do not visit us ? We must
have a world of our own, and be sufficient for
ourselves, if we can only keep together. Is
not that what you have said to us over andover
again ? Well, we shall he together 
we shall have each other. Wliat does the
outside world matter to us, after all ?'

Oh, you are young  you do not know
what complications may arise,' replied Mrs.
Challoner, with the gloomy forethought of
middle age. She thought she knew the
world better than they, but in reality she
was almost as guileless and ignorant as her
daughters. ' Until you begin, you do not
know the difficulties that will beset you,' she
went on.

But notwithstanding this foreboding speech,
she was somewhat comforted by Nan's words
' they would be together!' Well, if Providence

chose to inflict this humiliation and
afflictive dispensation on her, it could be
borne as long as she had her children around
her.

Nan made one more speech  a somewhat
stern one for her :

Our trouble will be a furnace to try our
friends. We shall know the true from the
false. Only those who are really worth the
name will be faithful to us.'

Nan was thinking of Dick; but her mother
misunderstood her, and grew alarmed.

You will not tell the Paines and the other
people about here what you intend to do,
surely ? I could not bear that ; no, indeed, I
could not bear that !'

Do not be afraid, dear mother,' returned
Nan sadly ; ' we are far too great cowards todo
such a thing, and after all, there is no need
to put ourselves to needless pain. If the
Maynes were here we might not be able to
keep it from them, perhaps, and so I am
thankful they are away.'

Nan said this quite calmly, though her
mother fixed her eyes upon her in a most
tenderly mournful fashion. She had quite

forgotten their Loiigmead neighbours, but
now, as Nan recalled them to her mind, she
remembered Mr. Mayne, and her look had
become compassionate.

It will be all over with those poor
children,' she thought to herself; 'the father
will never allow it  never  and I cannot
wonder at him ;' and then her heart softened
to the memory of Dick, whom she had never
thought good enough for Nan, for she remembered
now with a sore pang that her pride
was laid low in the dust, and that she could
not hope now that her daughters would make
splendid matches ; even Dick would be above
them, though his father had been in trade,
and had no grandfather worth mentioning.

A few days after their return from Hadleigh,
there was another long business interview
with Mr. Trinder, in which everything was
settled. A tenant had already been found
for the cottage. A young couple, on the eve
of their marriage, who had long been looking
for a suitable house in the neighbourhood, had
closed at once with Mr. Trader's offer, and
had taken the lease off their hands. The
gentleman was a cousin of the Paines, and

partly for the convenience of the in-coming
tenants, and partly because the Challoners
wished to move as soon as possible, there was
only a delay of a few weeks before the actual
flitting.

It would be impossible to describe the
dismay of the neighbourhood when the news
was circulated.

Immediately after their return from Hadleigh.
Nan and Phillis took counsel together,
and summoning up their courage, went from
one to another of their friends, and quietly
announced their approaching departure.

Mother has had losses, and we are now
dreadfully poor, and we are going to leave
Glen Cottage and go down to a small house
we have at Hadleigh,' said Nan, who by virtue
of an additional year of age was spokeswoman
on this occasion. She had fully rehearsed
this little speech, which she intended to say
at every house in due rotation. ' We will not
disguise the truth; we will let people know
that we are poor, and then they will not
expect impossibilities,' she said, as they
walked down the shady roads towards the
Paines' house  for the Paines were their

'fell us all about it, Nan.' 205

most intimate friends  and had a claim to the
first confidence.

I think that will he sufficient ; no one
has any right to know more she continued
decidedly, fully determined that no amount of
coaxing and cross-examination should wring
from her one unnecessary word.

But she little knew how difficult it would
be to keep their own counsel. The Paines
were not alone  they very seldom were.
Adelaide Sartoris was there, and the younger
Miss Twentyman, and a young widow, a Mrs.
Forbes, who was a distant connection of Mrs.
Paine.

Nan was convinced that they had all been
talking about them, for there was rather an
embarrassed pause as she and Phillis entered
the room. Carrie looked a little confused as
she greeted them.

Nan sat down by Mrs. Paine, who was
rather deaf, and in due time made her little
speech. She was rather pale with the efifoii,
and her voice faltered a little, but every word
was heard at the other end of the room.

Leave Glen Cottage, my dear ? I can't
have heard you rightly. * I am very deaf.

to-day, very. I think I must have caught
cold and Mrs. Paine turned a mild face of
perplexity on Nan, but, before she could
reiterate her words Carrie was on the footstool
at her feet, and Miss Sartoris, with a
grave look of concern on her handsome features,
was standing beside her.

Oh, Nan ! tell us all about it ! Of course
we saw something was the matter. Dulce
was so strange that afternoon ; and you have
all been keeping yourselves invisible for ever
so long.'

There is very little to tell,' returned Nan,
trying to speak cheerfully. 'Mother has had
bad news. Mr. Gardiner is bankrupt, and
all our invested money is gone. Of course,
we could not go on living at Glen Cottage.
There is some talk, Carrie, of your cousin,
Mr. Ibbetson, coming to look at it; it will
be nice for us if he could take the lease off
our hands, and then we should go down to
the Friary

How I shall hate to see Ralph there ; not
but what it will suit him and Louisa well
enough, I dare say. But never mind him, I
want to know all about yourselves,' continued

Came affectionately. * This is dreadful, Nan !
I can hardly believe it. What are we to do
without you ? and where is the Friary ? and
what is it like ? and what will you do with
yourselves when you get there ?'

Yes, indeed, that is what we want to
know,' agreed Miss Sartoris, putting her delicately
gloved hand on Nan's shoulder ;
and then Sophy Paine joined the little
group ; and Mrs. Forbes and Miss Twenty-man
left off talking to Phillis, and began
listening with all their might. Now it was
that Nan began to foresee difficulties.

The Friary is very small,' she went on,
but it will just hold us and Dorothy.
Dorothy is coming with us, of course. She
is old, but she works better than some of the
young ones. She is a faithful creature '

But Carrie interrupted her impatiently :
But, Nan, what will you do with yourselves
? Hadleigh is a nice place, I believe.
Mamma, we must all go down there next
summer, and stay there  jou shall come
with us, Adelaide  and then we shall be
able to cheer these poor things up ; and. Nan,
you and Phillis must come and stay with us.

We don't mean to give you up like this.
What does it matter about being poor ? Weare
all old friends together. You shall give
us tea at the Friary ; and I dare say there are
tennis grounds at Hadleigh, and we will have
nice times together.'

Of course we will come and see you
added Miss Sartoris, with a friendly pressure
of Nan's shoulder ; but the poor girl only
coloured up and looked embarrassed, and
then it was that Phillis, who was watching
her opportunity, struck in.

You are all very good ; but, Carrie, I
don't believe you understand Nan one bit.
When people lose their money they have to
work. We shall all have to put our shoulder
to the wheel. We would give you tea, of
course, but as for paying visits and playing
tennis, it is only idle girls like yourselves
who have time for that sort of thing. It will
be work and not play, I fear, with us.'

 Oh, Phillis !' exclaimed poor Carrie, with
tears in her eyes, and Miss Sartoris looked
horrified, for she had West Indian blood in
her veins, and was by nature somewhat indolent
and pleasure-loving.

Do you mean you will have to be governesses
?' she asked, with a touch of dismay
in her voice.

'We shall have to work returned Philos
vaguely. * When we are settled at the Friary
we must look round us and do the best we
can.' This was felt to be vague by the whole
party ; but Phillis's manner was so bold and
well assured that no one suspected that anything
lay beyond the margin of her speech.
They had not made up their minds, perhaps
Sir Francis Challoner would assist them ;
or there were other sources of help ; they
must move into the new house first, and
then see what was to be done. It was so
plausible, so sensible that everyone was
deceived.

'Of course, you cannot decide in such a
hurry; you must have so much to do just
now,' observed Carrie. ' You must write and tellus
all your plans, Phillis, and if there be anything
we can do to help you. Mamma, we
might have Mrs. Challoner here while the
cottage is dismantled. Do spare her to us,
Nan, and we will take such care of her!' and
they were still discussing this point, and try-vol.

I. 14

Not like other Girls.

ing to overrule Nan's objections  who knew
nothing would induce her mother to leave
them  when other visitors were announced,
and in the confusion they were allowed to
make their escape.

LADDIE ' PUTS IN AN APPEARANCE.

THINK we have managed that
as well as possible !' exclaimed
Phillis, when they found themselves
outside the gates. ' What a good thing
Adelaide and Mrs. Forbes and Lily were
there ! Now we need only call at those three
houses to say good-bye. How hot you look,
Nan ! and how they all hemmed you in ! I was
obliged to come to your rescue, you were so beset
; but I think I have put them off the scent.'
Yes, for the present ; but think, Phil, if
Carrie really carries out her intention, and all
the Paine tribe and Adelaide come down to
Hadleigh next summer ! No wonder I am
hot ; the bare idea suffocates me.'

142

Something may turn up before then ; it is
no good looking so far ahead,' was the philosophical
rejoinder. * Adelaide is rather formidable
certainly, and, in spite of her good
nature, one does not feel at home with her.
There is a flavour of money about her, I
think ; she dresses, talks, and lives in such a
gilded way one finds her heavy ; but she may
get married before then. Mr. Dalrymple
certainly seemed to mean it when he was
down here last winter, and he will be a good
match for her ; but here we are at Fitzroy
Square. I wonder what sort of humour
her ladyship will be in ?'

Lady Fitzroy received them very graciously.
She had just been indulging in a slight dispute
with her husband, and the interruption
was welcome to both of them ; besides, she
was always gracious to the Challoners.

You have just come in time, for we
were boring each other dreadfully,' she said,
in her pretty languid way, holding out
a hand to each of them. * Percival, will
you ring the bell, please ? I cannot think
why Thorpe does not bring up the tea ' as
usual?'

Lord Fitzroy obeyed his wife's behest
obediently; and then he turned with a
relieved air to his old friend Philos. She
was the clever one ; and though some people
called her quiet, that was because they did
not draw her out, or she had no sympathy
with them. He had always found her
decidedly amusing and agreeable in the days
of his bachelorhood.

He had married the beauty of a season,
but the beauty was not without her little
crotchets and tempers ; and though he was
both fond and proud of his wife, he found
Phillis's talk a relief this afternoon.

But PhilHs was a little distraite on this
occasion ; she wanted to hear what Nan was
saying in a low voice across the room, and
Thorpe and his subordinate was setting the
tea-table, and Lord Fitzroy would place himself
just before her.

'Now look here, Miss Challoner,' he was
saying, ' I want to tell you all about it ;' but
here Thorpe left the room, and Lady Fitzroy
interrupted them.

Oh, Percival, what a pity ! Do you hear
we are going to lose our nicest neighbours ?

Dear little Glen Cottage is to be empty in a
week or so !'

Mr. Ralph Ibbetson will decide to take
it, I think ; and he and Miss Blake are to be
married on the sixteenth of next month
returned Nan softly.

Ibbetson at Glen Cottage ! that redheaded
fellow ! My dear Miss Challoner,
what sacrilege  what desecration ! What do
you mean by forsaking us in this fashion ?
Are you all going to be married ? Has Sir
Francis died and left you a fortune ? In the
name of all that is mysterious, what is the
meaning of this T

If you will let a person speak, Percival,'
returned his wife with dignity, * you shall
have an answer ;' and then she looked up in
his handsome, good-natured face, and her
manner softened insensibly. * Poor dear Mrs.
Challoner has had losses ! Some one has
played her false, and they are obliged to
leave Glen Cottage. But Hadleigh is a nice
place,' she went on, turning to Nan ; * it is
very select.'

'Where did you say, Evelyn?' inquired
her husband, eagerly. ' Hadleigh, in Sussex ?

Oh, that is a snug little place ; no Toms
and Harries go down there on a nine hours'
trip. I was there myself once, with the
Shannontons. Perhaps Lady Fitzroy and I
may run down one day and have a look at
you he continued, with a friendly look at
Phillis. It was only one of his good-natured
speeches, but his wife took umbrage at it.

The sea never agrees with me. I thought
you knew that, Percival !' rather reproachfully
; ' but I dare say we shall often see you
here,' she went on, fearing Nan would think
her ungracious. ' You and the Paines are so
intimate that they are sure to have you for
weeks together ; it is so pleasant revisiting
an old neighbourhood, is it not ? I know I
always feel that with regard to Nuneaton.'

Nuneaton never suits my constitution. I
thought you would have remembered that,
Evelyn,' returned her husband gravely; and
then they both laughed. Lord Fitzroy was
not without a sense of humour, and often
restored amity by a joking word after this
fashion, and then the conversation proceeded
more smoothly.

Nan and Phillis felt far more at their ease

here than they had at the Fames'. There
were no awkward questions asked ; Lady
Fitzroy was far too well bred for that. If
she wondered at all how the Challoners were
to live after they had lost their money, she
kept such remarks for her husband's private
ear.

Those girls ought to marry well,' observed
Lord Fitzroy, when he found himself alone
again with his wife. 'Miss Challoner is as
pretty a creature as one need see, but Miss
Phillis has the most in her.'

How are they to meet people if they are
going to bury themselves in a little seaside
place ?' she returned regretfully. ' Shall I
put on my habit now, Percy ? do you think it
will be cool enough for our ride ?'

Yes, run along, my pet, and don't keep
me too long waiting.' Nevertheless, Lord
Fitzroy did not object when his wife made
room for him a moment beside her on the
couch, while she made it up to him for her
cross speeches, as she told him.

There, little mother, it is all done !' exclaimed
Phillis, in a tone of triumph, as later
on in the afternoon they returned to the

cottage ; but in spite of her bravado both the
girls looked terribly jaded, and Nan especially
seemed out of spirits ; but then they had
been round the Longmead garden, and had
gathered some flowers in the conservatory,
and this alone would have been depressing
work to Nan.

From that time they lived in a perpetual
whirl, a bustle of activity that grew greater,
and not less, from day to day. Mrs. Challoner
had quietly but decidedly refused the Paines'
invitation. Nan was right, nothing would
have induced her to leave her girls in their
trouble : she made light of their discomfort,
forgot her invalid airs, and persisted in
fatiguing herself to an alarming extent.

You must let me do things ; I should be
wretched to sit with my hands before me and
not help you,' she said, with tears in her eyes,
and when they appealed in desperation to
Dorothy, she took her mistress's side.

Working hurts less than worrying. Don't
you be fretting about the mistress too much,
or watching her too closely. It will do her
no harm, take my word for it ;' and Dorothy
was rirht.

But there was one piece of work that Nan
set her mother to do before they left the
cottage.

Mother,' she said to her one day when
they were alone together, ' Mrs. Mayne will
be wondering why you do not answer her
letter. I think you had better write, and tell
her a little about things. We must not put
it off any longer, or she will be hurt with us;'
and Mrs. Challoner very reluctantly set about
her unpleasant task.

But after all it was Nan who furnished the
greater part of the composition. Mrs. Challenger
was rather verbose and descriptive in
her style. Nan cut down her sentences ruthlessly;
and so penned and simplified the
whole epistle, that her mother failed to trace
her own handiwork ; and at the last she
added a postscript in her own pretty handwriting.


Mrs. Challoner was rather dissatisfied with
the whole thing.

You have said so little, Nan. Mrs. Mayne
will be quite affronted at our reticence.'

'What is the use of harrowing people's
feelings ?' was Nan's response.

It was quite true she had dwelt as little
as possible on their troubles.

The few opening sentences had related
solely to their friends' affairs.

you will be sorry to hear Mrs. Challenger
wrote after this, ' that I have met with
some severe losses. I dare say Mr. Mayne
will remember that my poor husband invested
our little income in the business of his cousin,
Mark Gardiner. We have just heard the unwelcome
news that Gardiner and Fowler have
failed for a large amount. Under these circumstances,
we think it more prudent to leave
Glen Cottage as soon as possible, and settle
at Hadleigh, where we have a small house
belonging to us called the Friary. Fortunately
for us Mr. Trinder has found us a tenant, who
will take the remainder of the lease off our
hands. Do you remember Mr. Ealpli Ibbetson,
the Paines' cousin, that rather heavy-looking
young man with reddish hair, who was engaged
to that pretty Miss Blake  well, he
has taken Glen Cottage ; and I hope you will
find them nice neighbours. Tell Dick he
must not be too sorry to miss his old friends ;
but of course you will understand this is a sad

break to us. Settling down in a new place is
never very pleasant ; and as my girls will
have to help themselves, and we shall all
have to learn to do without things, it will be
somewhat of a discipline to us ; but as long
as we are together, we all feel such difficulties
can be easily borne.

Tell Mr. Mayne that if I had foreseen
how things were to turn out, I would have
conquered my indisposition, and not have
forfeited my last evening at Longmead/

And in the postscript Nan wrote hurriedly :

You must not be too sorry for us, dear
Mrs. Mayne, for mother is as brave as possible,
and we are all determined to make the
best of things.

Of course, it is very sad leaving dear Glen
Cottage, where we have spent such happy,
happy days ; but though the Friary is small,
we shall make it very comfortable. Tell
Dick the garden is a perfect wilderness at
present, and that there are no roses, only a
splendid passion-flower that covers the whole
back of the house.'

Nan never knew why she put this. Was
it to remind him vaguely that the time of

roses was over, and that from this day things
would be different with them.

Nan was quite satisfied when she had
despatched this letter. It told just enough,
and not too much. It sorely perplexed and
troubled Dick ; and yet neither he nor his
father had the least idea how things really
were with the Challoners.

 Didn't I tell you so, Bessie ?' exclaimed
Mr. Mayne, almost in a voice of triumph, ashe
struck his hand upon the letter. * Paine
was right when he spoke of a shake investment.
That comes of women pretending to
understand business. A pretty mess they
seem to have made of it.'

Mother,' said poor Dick, coming up to
her when he found himself alone with her fora
moment, * I don't understand this letter. I
cannot read between the lines, somehow, and
yet there seems something more than meets
the eye.'

I am sure it is bad enough,' returned Mrs.
Mayne, who had been quietly crying over
Nan's postscript ; * think of them leaving
Glen Cottage, and of these poor dear girls
having to make themselves useful.'

It is just that that bothers me so replied
Dick, with a frowning brow. ' The letter
tells us so little. It is so constrained in tone ;
as though they were keeping something from
us. Of course they have something to live
upon, but I am afraid it is very little.'

Very likely they will only have one
servant ; just Dorothy, and no one else ; and
the girls will have to help in the house,'
returned his mother thoughtfully. * That will
not do them any harm, Dick ; it always
improves girls to make them useful. I daresay
the Friary is a very small place, and then
I am sure, with a little help, Dorothy will
do very well.'

But, mother,' pleaded Dick, who was
somewhat comforted by this sensible view of
the matter, * do write to Nan or Phillis, and
beg of them to give us fuller particulars,'
and, though Mrs. Mayne promised she would
do so, and kept her word, Dick was not satisfied,
but sat down and scrawled a long letter
to Mrs. Challoner, so incoherent in its expressions
of sympathy and regret, that it
quite mystified her; but Nan thought it perfect,
and took possession of it, and read it

every day, until it got quite thin and worn.
One sentence especially pleased her. ' I don't
intend ever to cross the threshold of the
Cottage again,' wrote Dick ; ' in fact, Oldfield
will be hateful without you all. Of course I
shall run down to Hadleigh at Christmas, and
look you up, and see for myself what sort of
a place the Friary is. Tell Nan I will get
her lots of roses for her garden, so she need
not trouble about that ; and give them my
love, and tell them how awfully sorry I am
about it all.'

Poor Dick ! the news of his friends' misfortunes
took off the edge of his enjoyment
for a long time. Thanks to Nan's unselfishness,
he did not in the least realize the true
state of affairs ; nevertheless, his honest heart
was heavy at the thought of the empty
cottage, and he was quite right in saying
Oldfield had grown suddenly hateful to him,
and, though he kept these thoughts to himself
as much as possible, Mr. Mayne saw that
his son was depressed and ill at ease, and
sent him away to the Swiss Tyrol, with a
gay party of young people, hoping a few
weeks' change would put the Challengers out

of his head. Meanwhile, Nan and her sisters
worked busily, and their friends crowded
round them, helping or hindering, according
to their nature.

On the last afternoon there was a regular
invasion of the Cottage. The drawing-room
carpet was up, and the room was full of .
Carrie Paine had taken possession
of one, and her sister Sophy and Lily
Twentyman had a turned-up box between
them. Miss Sartoris and Gussie Scobell had
wicker chairs. Dorothy had just brought in
tea, and had placed before Nan a heterogeneous
assemblage of kitchen cups and saucers,
mugs, and odds and ends of crockery, when
Lady Fitzroy entered in her habit, accompanied
by her sister, the Honourable Maud
Burgoyne, both of whom seemed to enjoy the
picnic excessively.

Do let me have the mug,' implored Miss
Burgoyne; she was a pretty little brunette
with a nez retrousse, ' I have never drank
out of one since my nursery days. How cool
it is, after the sunny roads. I think carpets
ought to be abolished in the summer. Alien
I have a house of my own, Evelyn, I mean

to have Indian matting and nothing else in
the warm weather.'

I am very fond of Indian matting returned
her sister, sipping her tea contentedly.
Fitzroy hoped to have looked in this afternoon,
Mrs. Challoner, to say good-bye, but
there is an assault-alarms at the Albert Hall,
and he is taking my young brother xllgernon
to see it. He is quite inconsolable at the
thought of losing such pleasant neighbours,
find sent all sorts of pretty messages finished
Lady Fitzroy graciously.

Here is Edgar exclaimed Carrie Paine ;
he told us at lunch-time that he meant to
put in an appearance ; but I am afraid the
poor boy will find himself de trop among so
many ladies.'

Edgar was the youngest Paine. A tall
Eton boy, who looked as though he would
soon be too big for jackets, and an especial
friend of Nan's.

How good of you to come and say goodbye,
Gar,' she said, summoning him to her
side, as the boy looked round him blushing
and half terrified. ' What have you got
there under your jacket ?'

VOL. I. 15

It is the puppy I promised you,' returned
Edgar eagerly ; ' don't you know, Nell's
puppy ? Father said I might have it,' and
he deposited a fat black retriever puppy at
Nan's feet. The little beast made a clumsy
rush at her, and then rolled over on its back.
Nan took it up in high delight, and showed
it to her mother.

Isn't it good of Gar, mother, and when
we all wanted a dog so ? We have never
had a pet since poor old Juno died, and this
will be such a splendid fellow when he grows
up ; look at his head and curly black paws,
and what a dear solemn face he has got.'

I am glad you like him,' replied Edgar,
who was now perfectly at his ease ; ' we
have christened him '' Laddie," he is the
handsomest puppy of the lot, and our man
Jakes says he is perfectly healthy,' and then,
as Nan cut him some cake, he proceeded to
enlighten her oh the treatment of this valuable
animal.

The arrival of ' Laddie ' made quite a
diversion, and when the good-byes were all
said, Nan took the little animal in her arms
and went with Phillis for the last time to

gather flowers in the Longmead garden, and
when the twilight came on the three girls
went slowly through the village, bidding farewell
to their old haunts.

It was all very sad, and nobody slept much
that night in the cottage. Nan's tears were
shed very quietly, but they fell thick and fast.

Oh, Dick, it is hard  hard !' thought the
poor girl, burying her face in the pillow ;
but I have not let you know the day, so
you will not be thinking of us. I would not
pain you for worlds, Dick, not more than I
can help,' and then she dried her eyes and
told herself that she must be brave for all
their sakes tomorrow, but for all her good
resolutions sleep would not come to her anymore
than it did to Phillis, who lay open-eyed
and miserable until morning.

152

I MUST HAVE GRACE.

HEN the Rev. Archibald Drummond
was nominated to the living of
Hadleigh in Sussex, it was at
once understood by his family that he had
achieved a decided success in life.

Hadleigh until very recently had been a
perpetual curacy, and the perpetual curate in
charge had lived in the large, shabby house
with the green door on the Braid wood Road,
as it was called. There had been some talk
of a new vicarage, but as yet the first brick
had not been laid, the building committee
had fallen out on the (question of the site, and
nothing had been definitely arranged ; there
was a good deal of talk too about the church

restoration, but at the present moment nothing
had been done.

Mr. Drummond had not been disturbed in
his mind by the delay of the building committee
in the matter of the new vicarage, but
on the topic of the church restoration he had
been heard to say very bitter things, far too
bitter, it was thought, to proceed from the lips
of such a new comer. It is not always wise
to be outspoken, and when Mr. Drummond
expressed himself a little too frankly on the
ugliness of the sacred edifice, which until
lately had been a chapel-offense, he had
caused a great deal of dissatisfaction in the
mind of his hearers; but when the young
vicar, still strongly imbued with the beauties
of Oxford architecture, had looked round
blankly on the great square pews and galleries,
and then at the wooden pulpit, and the Ten
Commandments that adorned the east end, he
was not quite so sure in his mind that his
position was as enviable as that of other
men.

Church architecture was his hobby, and if
the truth must be told he was a little ' High '
in his views ; without attaching himself to the

Ultra-Kitualistic party, he was still strongly
impregnated with many of their ideas ; he
preferred Gregorian to Anglican chants, and
would have had no objection to incense if his
Diocesan could have been brought to have
appreciated it too.

An ornate service was decidedly to his
taste. It was, therefore, a severe mortification
when he found himself compelled to
minister Sunday after Sunday in a building
that was ugly enough for a conventicle, and
to listen to the florid voices of a mixed choir,
instead of . the orderly array of men and boys
in white surplices, to which he had been
accustomed. If he had been combative by
nature one who loved to gird his armour
about him, and to plunge into every sort of
melee, he would have rejoiced after a fashion
at the thought of the work cut out for him,
of bringing order and beauty out of this
chaos ; but he was by nature too impatient.
He would have condemned and destroyed instead
of trying to renovate.

Why not build a new church at once ?'
he said, with a certain youthful intolerance
that made people angry. ' Never mind the

vicarage ; the old house will last my time ;
but a place like this  a rising place  ought
to have a church worthy of it. " It will be
money thrown away to restore this one,'
finished the young vicar, looking round him
with sorely troubled eyes ; and it was this
out-spoken frankness that had lost him popularity
at first.

But if the new vicar had secret cause for
discontent, in the Drummond family there was
nothing but the sweetness of triumph.

Archie has never given me a moment's
trouble from his birth,' his proud mother was
wont to declare ; and it must be owned that
the young man had done very fairly for himself.


There had been plenty of anxiety in the
Drummond household while Archibald was
enjoying his first Oxford term. Things had
come to a climax  his father  who was a
Leeds manufacturer, had failed most utterly,
and to a large amount. The firm of Drummond
and Drummond, once known as a
most respectable and reliable firm, had come
suddenly, but not unexpectedly, to the ground;
and Archibald Drummond the elder had been

compelled to accept a mastership in the very
firm who, by competition and under-selling,
had helped to ruin him.

It was a heavy trial to a man of Mr. Drummond's
proud temperament ; but he went
through with it in a tough, dogged way, that
excited his wife's admiration. True, his bread
was bitter to him for a long time, and the
sweetness of life, as he told himself, was over
for him ; but he had a large family to maintain,
sons and daughters growing up around
him, and the youngest was not yet six months
old ; under such circumstances a man may be
induced to put his pride in his pocket.

'Your father has grown quite grey, and
has begun to stoop. It makes my heart quite
ache to see him sometimes,' Mrs. Drummond
wrote to her eldest son ; ' but he never says a
word to any of us. He just goes through
with it day after day.'

At that time Archie was her great comfort.
He had begun to make his own way early in
life, understanding from the first that his
parents could do very little for him. He had
worked well at school, and had succeeded in
obtaining one or two scholarships. When his

university life commenced, and the household
at Leeds became straitened in their circumstances,
he determined not to encumber them
with his presence.

He soon became known in his college as a
reading-man and a steady worker ; he was fortunate,
too, in obtaining pupils for the long
vacation. By-and-by he" became a fellow
and tutor of his college, and before he was
eight-and-twenty the living of Hadleigh was
offered to him. It was not at all a rich
living  not being worth more than three hundred
a year  and some of his Oxford friends
would have dissuaded him from accepting it ;
but Archibald Drummond was not of their
opinion. Oxford did not suit his constitution;
he was never well there. Sussex air, and
especially the seaside, would give him just
the tone he required. He liked the big old-fashioned
house that would be allotted to him.
He could take pupils and add to his income
in that way ; at present he had his fellowship.
It was only in the event of his marriage that
his income might not be found sufficient. At
the present moment he had no matrimonial intentions
; there was only one thing on which he

was determined, and that was, Grace must
live with him and keep his house.

Grace was the sister next to him in age.
Mattie, or Matilda, as her mother often called
her, was the eldest of the family, and was
two years older than Archibald, Between
him and Grace there were two brothers,
Fred and Clyde, and beyond Grace a string
of girls, ending in Dottie, who was not yet
ten. Archibald used to forget their ages,
and mix them up in the most helpless way ;
he was never quite sure if Isabel were eighteen
or twenty, or whether Clara or Susie came
next. He once forgot Laura altogether, and
was only reminded of her existence by the
shock of surprise at seeing the awkward-looking,
ungainly girl standing before him,
looking shyly up in his face.

Archibald was never quite alive to the
blessing of having seven sisters, none of them
with any pretension to beauty, unless it were
Grace, though he was obliged to confess on
his last visit to Leeds that Isabel was certainly
passable-looking. He tried to take a proper
amount of interest in them, and be serenely
unconscious of their want of grace and polish ;

but the effort was too manifest, and neither
Clara, nor Susie, nor Laura regarded their
grave elder brother with any lively degree of
affection. Mrs. Drummond was a somewhat
stern and exacting mother, but she was never
so difficult to please as when her eldest son
was at home.

Home is never so comfortable when Archie
is in it,' Susie would grumble to her favourite
confidante, Grace. ' Everyone is obliged to
be on their best behaviour; and yet mother
finds fault fi'om morning to night. Dottie is
crying now because she has been scolded for
coming down to tea in a dirty pinafore.'

Oh, hush, Susie dear, you ought not to
say such things,' returned Grace, in her quiet
voice.

Poor Grace ! these visits of Archie were
her only pleasures. The brother and sister
were devoted to each other. In Archie's eyes
not one of the others was to be compared to
her ; and in this he was perfectly right.

Grace Drummond was a tall, sweet-looking
girl of two-and-twenty ; not pretty, except in
her brother's opinion, but possessing a soft,
fair comeliness, that made her pleasant to

look upon. In voice and manner she was
extremely quiet  almost grave; and only
those who lived with her had any idea of
the repressed strength and energy of her
character, and the almost masculine clearness
of intellect that lay under the soft exterior.
One side of her nature was hidden from
everyone hut her brother, and to him only
revealed by intermittent flashes, and that was-the
passionate absorption of her affection in
him. To her parents she was dutiful and
submissive, but when she grew up the yoke
of her mother's will was felt to be oppressive.
Her father's nature was more in sympathy
with her own ; but even with him she was
reticent. She was good to all her brothers
and sisters, and especially devoted to Dottie ;
but her affection for them was so strongly
pervaded by anxiety and the over-weight of
responsibility, that its pains over-balanced its
pleasures. She loved them, and toiled in
their service from morning to night ; but as
yet she had not felt herself rewarded by any
decided success. But in Archie her pride
was equal to her love ; she was critical, and
her standard was somewhat high ; but he

satisfied her. What other people recognised
as faults, she regarded as the merest blemishes.
Without being absolutely faultless, which was
of course impossible in a creature of flesh and
blood, he was still as near perfection, she
thought, as he could be. Perhaps her affection
for him blinded her somewhat, and cast a
sort of loving glamour over her eyes ; for it
must be owned Archibald was by no means
extraordinary in either goodness or cleverness.
From a boy she had watched his career with
dazzled eyes, rejoicing in every stroke of
success that came to him as though it were
her own. Her own life was dull and laborious,
spent in the over-crowded house in Lower
Street, but she forgot it in following his.
Now and then bright days came to her  few
in number, but absolutely golden  when this
dearly loved brother came on a brief visit ;
when they had snatches of delicious talk in
the empty schoolroom at the top of the house,
or he took her out with him for a long quiet
walk.

Mrs. Drummond always made some dry
sarcastic remark when they came in, for she
was secretly jealous of Archie's affection for

Grace. Hers was rather a monopolizing
nature, and she would willingly have had the
first share in her son's affections. It somewhat
displeased her to see him so rapt up in
the one sister to the exclusion of all the others,
as she told him.

I think you might have asked Matilda or
Isabel to have accompanied you. The poor
girls never see anything of you, Archie,' she
would say plaintively to her son. But to
Grace she would speak somewhat sharply,
bidding her fulfil some neglected duty, which
another could well have performed ; and
making her at once understand by her
manner, that she was to blame in leaving
Mattie at home.

Mother,' Archibald said to her one day,
when she had spoken with unusual severity,
and the poor girl had retreated from the
room, feeling as though she had been convicted
of selfishness ; ' we must settle the
matter about which I spoke to you last night.
I have been thinking about it ever since.
Mattie will not do at all  I must have
Grace !'

Mrs. Drummond looked up from her mending

; and her thin Hps settled into a hard line
that they always took when her mind was
made up on a disagreeable subject. She had
a pinafore belonging to Dottie in her hand ;
there was a jagged rent in it ; and she sighed
impatiently as she put it down : though she
was not a woman who shirked any of her
maternal duties, she had often been heard
to say that her work was never done, hind
that her mending basket was never empt3\

But if I cannot spare Grace,' she said
rather shortly, as she meditated another
lecture to the delinquent Dottie.

'But, mother, you must spare her!' returned
her son eagerly, leaning his elbow
on the mantelpiece, and watching her rapid
manipulations with apparent interest. * Look
here, I am quite in earnest. I have set my
heart on having Grace. She is just the one
to manage a clergyman's household. She
would be my right hand in the parish.'

She is our right hand too, Archie ; but I
suppose we are to cut it off, that it may
benefit you and your parish.'

Mrs. Drummond seldom spoke so sharply

to her eldest son ; but this request of his was
grievous to her.

I think Grace ought to be considered,
too, in the matter he returned somewhat
sullenly. ' She works harder than any paid
governess, and gets small thanks for hertrouble/

She does her duty,' returned Mrs. Drummond
coldly  she very seldom praised any
of her children  ' but not more than Mattie
does hers. You are prejudiced strangely
against your sister, Archie ; you are not fair
to her in any way. Mattie is a capital little
housekeeper. She is economical, and full of
clever contrivances. It is not as though I
asked you to try Isabel. She is well enough,
too, in her way, but a little flighty, and rather

too pretty perhaps ' but here a laugh

from Archie grated on her ear.

Too pretty !  what an absurd idea. The
girl is passable-looking, and I will not deny
that she has improved lately ; but, mother,
there is not one of the girls that can be called
pretty except Grace.'

Mrs. Drummond winced at her son's outspoken
words. The plainness of her daughters
was a sore subject.

She had never understood why her girls
were so ordinary-looking. She had been a
handsome girl in her time, and was still a
fine-looking woman. Her husband, too, had
had a fair amount of good looks ; and though
he stooped, was still admirable in her eyes.
The boys, too, were thoroughly fine fellows.
Fred was decidedly handsome, and so was
Clyde ; and as for her favourite Archie, Mrs.
Drummond glanced up at him as he stood
beside her.

He certainly looked a model young clergyman.
His features were good, but the lower
part of his face was quite hidden by the fair
moustache and soft silky beard. He had
thoughtful grey eyes, which could look as
severe as hers sometimes ; and though his
shoulders were somewhat too sloping, there
could be no fault found with his figure. He
was as nice-looking as possible, she thought,
and no mother could have been better satisfied.
But why, with the exception of Grace and
Isabel, were her girls so deficient in outward
graces ? It could not be denied that they
were vers ordinary girls. Laura was overgrown
and freckled, and had red hair. Susie

VOL. I. 16

was sickly-looking, and so sliort-siglited that
they feared she would have to take to
spectacles ; and Clara was stolid and heavy-looking,
one of those thick-set girls that dress
never seems to improve. Dottie had a funny
little face ; but one could not judge of her
yet. And Mattie  Mrs. Drummond sighed
again as she thought of her eldest daughter 
Mattie was thirty; and her mother felt she
would never marry. It was not that she was
so absolutely plain  people who liked her
said Mattie had a nice face  but she was so
abrupt, so uncouth in her awkwardness, such
a stranger to the minor morals of life, that it
would be a wonder indeed if she could find
favour in any man's eyes.

I do think you are too hard on your
sisters,' returned Mrs. Drummond, stung by
her son's remark. ' Isabel was very much
admired at her first party last week. Mrs.
Cochrane told me so, and so did Miss Blair.'
She could have added that her maternal interest
had been strongly stirred by the mention
of a certain Mr. Ellis Burton, who she had
understood had paid a great deal of attention
that evening to Isabel, and who was the eldest

son of a wealthy manufacturer in Leeds. But
Mrs. Drummond had some good old-fashioned
notions, and one of these was never to speak
on such delicate subjects as the matrimonial
prospects of her daughters ; indeed, she often
thanked heaven she was not a match-making
mother  which was as well, under the circumstances.


Well, well, we are not talking about
Isabel,' returned her son impatiently.  The
question is about Grace, mother. I really do
wish very much that you and my father would
stretch a point for me here. I want her more
than I can say.'

But, Archie, you must be reasonable.
Just think a moment. Your father cannot
afford to send the girls to school, or to pay fora
good finishing governess. We have given
Grace every advantage ; and just as she is
making herself really useful to me in the
schoolroom, you want to deprive me of her
services.'

You know I offered to pay for Clara's
schooling,' returned her son reproachfully.
She is more than sixteen, is she not? Surely
Mattie could teach the others ?'

IG 2

But Mrs. Drummond's clear, concise voice
interrupted him.

Archie, low can you talk such nonsense ?
You know poor Mattie was never good at
book-learning. She would hardly do for
Bottle. Ask Grace, if you doubt my
word.'

Of course I do not doubt it, mother,' in
rather an aggravated voice, for he felt he was
having the worst of the argument.

Then why do you not believe me then,
when I tell you the thing you ask is impossible
T replied his mother, more calmly. ' I
am sorry for you if you are disappointed,
Archie ; but you undervalue Mattie  you do
indeed. She will make you a nice little
housekeeper, and though she is not clever, she
is so amiable that nothing ever puts her out ;
and visiting the poor and sick-nursing are
more in her line than in Grace's. Mrs. Blair
finds her invaluable. She wanted her for one
of her district visitors, and I said she had too
much to do at home.'

Archie shrugged his shoulders. Mrs. Blair
was the wife of the Yicar of All Saints', where
the Drummondss attended, and from a boy she

had been his pet aversion. She was a bustling,
managing woman, and, of course, Mattie was
just to her taste. He did not see much use
in continuing the conversation ; with all his
affection for his mother  and she was better
loved by her sons than by her daughters  he
knew her to be as immovable as a rock when
she had once made up her mind. He thought
at first of appealing to his father on Grace's
behalf, but abandoned this notion after a few
minutes' reflection. His father was decided
and firm in all matters relating to business,
but for many years past he had abandoned the
domestic reins to his wife's capable hands.
Perhaps he had proved her worth and prudence
; perhaps he thought the management
of seven daughters too much for any man.
Anyhow, he interfered less and less as the
years went on ; and if at any time he differed
from his wife, she could always talk him over,
as her son well knew.

When the subject had been first mooted in
the household h had said a word or two to
his father, and had found him very reluctant
to entertain the idea of parting with Grace.
She was his favourite daughter, and ho

thought how he should miss her when he
came home weary and jaded at night.

I don't think it will do at all he had
said, in an undecided dissatisfied tone.
Won't one of the other girls serve your
turn ? There's Mattie, or that little monkey
Isabel, she is as pert and lively as possible.
But Grace, why, she is everyone's right-hand.
What would the mother or the young ones do
without her ?'

No ; it was no use appealing to his father,
Archie thought, and might only make mischief
in the house. He and Grace must
make up their mind to a few more years'
separation. He turned away after his
mother's last speech, and finally left the
room without saying another word. There
was a cloud on his face, and Mrs. Drummond
saw that he was much displeased ; but,
though she sighed again as she took up a pair
of Clyde's socks and inspected them carefully,
there was no change in her resolution that
Mattie, and not Grace, should go to the
Vicarage for the year's visit that was all
Archie had asked.

There are mothers and mothers in this

world. Some who are capable of sacrificing
their children to Moloch, who will barter
their own flesh and blood in return for some
barren heritage or other. There are those
who will exact from those dependent on
them heavy tithes of daily patience and uncomplaining
drudgery ; while others, who
are ' mothers indeed,' give all, asking for
nothing in return.

Mrs. Drummond was a good woman. She
had many virtues and few faults. She was
ladylike, industrious, and self-denying in her
own personal comforts, an exemplary wife
and a tolerant mistress ; but she was better
understood by her sons than by her daughters.


Her maternal instincts were very strong,
and no mother had more delighted in her
nursery than she had in hers. As long as
there was a baby in the house the tenderness
of her love was apparent enough. She wore
herself out tending her infants, and no one
ever heard her say a harsh word in her
nursery.

But as her children grew up, there was
much clashing of wills in the household.

Her sons did not fear her in the least ; but
with her daughters it was otherwise. They
felt the mother's strong will repressive ; it
threatened to dwarf their individuality, and
cramp that free growth that is so necessary
to young things.

Dottie, who by virtue of being the last
baby had had more than her fair amount of
petting, was only just beginning to learn her
lesson of unquestioning obedience ; and, as
she was somewhat spoiled, the lesson was a
hard one. But Laura, and Susie, and Clara
had not yet found out that their mother loved
them, and wished to be their friend ; they
were timid and reserved with her, and took
all their troubles to Grace. Even Mattie, who
was her first-born, and who was old enough
to be her mother's companion, quailed and
blushed like a child under the dry caustic
speeches at which Clyde and Fred only
laughed.

You don't understand the mother. Her
bark is worse than her bite,' Clyde would say
to his sister sometimes. ' She is an awfully
clever woman, and it riles her to see herself
surrounded by such a set of ninnies. Now

don't sulk, Belle. You know Mattie's a duffer
compared to Grace ; aren't you, Matt ?'

At which truism poor Mattie would hang
her head.

Yes, Clyde ; I know I am dreadfully
stupid sometimes, and that makes mother
angry.'

Mrs. Drummond often complained bitterly
of her daughters' want of confidence in her,
but she never blamed herself for the barrier
that seemed between them. She was forever
asserting maternal authority, when such
questions might have been safely laid to rest
between her and her grown-up daughters.
Mrs. Challoner's oneness of sympathy with
her girls, her lax discipline, her perfect
equality, would have shocked a woman of
Mrs. Drummond's calibre. She would not
have tolerated or understood it for a moment.

'My girls must do as I wish,' was a very
ordinary speech in her mouth. ' I always do
as my girls wish,' Mrs. Challoner would have
said. And, indeed, the two mothers were
utterly dissimilar ; but it may be doubted
whether the Challoner household were not far
happier than the family in Lowdcr Street.

YOU CAN DARE TO TELL ME THESE THINGS !'

Archibald DRUMMOND had left
his mother's presence with a cloud
on his brow. He had plenty of
filial affection for her, but it was not the first
time that he had found her too much for him.
She had often angered him before by her
treatment of Grace, but he had told himself
that she was his mother, that a man could
have but one, and so he had brought himself
to forgive her. But this time she had set
herself against the cherished plan of years.
He had always looked forward to the time
when he could have Grace to live with him ;
they had made all sorts of schemes together,
and all their talk had concentrated itself

towards this point ; the disappointment would
place a sort of blankness before them; they
would be working separately, far away from
each other, and the distance would not be
bridged for years.

He stood for a moment in the dark, narrow
hall, thinking intently over all this, and then
he went slowly upstairs. He knew where he
should find Grace. His mother had paid an
unwonted visit to the schoolroom during their
walk, and on their return had expressed
herself with some degree of sharpness on the
disorder she had found there. Grace would
be busily engaged in putting everything to
rights. It was Clara's business, but she had
gone out, and had as usual forgotten all about
it. Grace had taken the blame upon herself,
of course ; she was always shielding her
younger sisters.

Every thing was done when he entered the
room, and Grace was sitting by the window,
with her hands folded in her lap, indulging ina
few minutes' rare idleness; she looked up
eagerly as her brother made his appearance.

The schoolroom was a large, bare-looking
room at the top of the house, with two narrow

windows looking out over a lively prospect of
roofs and chimney-pots. Mrs. Drummond
had done her utmost to give it an air of
comfort, but it was on the whole a dull,
uncomfortable apartment, in spite of the faded
Turkey carpet, and the curtains that had once
been so handsome, but had now merged into
unwholesome neutral tints.

Laura, who was the wit of the family, had
nicknamed it the Hospital, for it seemed to
be a receptacle for all the maimed and rickety
chairs of the household  footstools in a dilapidated
condition, and odd pieces of lumber that
had no other place. Archibald regarded it
with a troubled gaze ; somehow its dinginess
had never so impressed him ; and then as he
looked at his sister the frown deepened on his
face.

swell, Archie.'

Oh, Grace, it is no use ! I have talked
myself hoarse ; but the mother is dead against
it ; one might as well try to move a rock.
"We shall have to make up our minds to bear
our disappointment as well as we can.'

*I knew it was hopeless from the first,'
returned Grace slowly ; but as she spoke a

sort of dimness and paleness crept over her
face, belying her words.

She was young, and in youth hope never
dies. Beyond the gray daily horizon there is
always a possible gleam, a new tomorrow ;
youth abounds in infinite surprises, in probabilities
which are as large as they are vague.
Grace told herself that she never hoped much
from Archie's mission ; yet when he came to
her with his ill-success plainly stamped upon
his countenance, the ddng out of her dream
was bitter to her.

I knew it was hopeless from the first,'
had been her answer, and then breath for
further words failed her ; and she sat motionless,
with her hands clasped tightly together,
while Archie placed himself on the window-seat
beside her, and looked out ruefully at the
opposite chimneys.

Well, it was all over, this dearly cherished
scheme of theirs ; she must go on now with
the dull routine of daily duties, she must stoop
her neck afresh to the yoke she had long
found so galling; this schoolroom must be
her world, she must not hope any longer for
wider vistas, for more expansive horizons, for

tasks that should be more congenial to her,
for all that was now made impossible.

Mattie, not she, must go and keep Archie's
house, and here for a moment she closed her
eyes, the pain was so bitter ; she thought of
the old vicarage, of the garden where she and
Archie were to have worked, of the shabby
old study where he meant to write his sermons,
while she was to sit beside him with her book
or needlework, of the evenings when he had
promised to read to her, of the walks they
were to have taken together, of all the dear
delightful plans they had made.

And now her mother had said them nay ; it
was Mattie who was to be his housekeeper,
who would sit opposite to him and pour out
his coffee, who would mend his socks and do
all the thousand and one things that a woman
delights in doing for the mankind dependent
on her for comfort.

Mattie would visit his poor people, and
teach in the schools, entertain his friends, and
listen to his voice every Sunday ; here tears
slowly gathered under the closed eyelids.
Yes, Mattie would do all that, but she would
not be his chosen friend and companion ;

there would be no long charming talks for her
in the study or the sunny garden, he would
be as lonely, poor fellow, in his way as she
would be in hers, and for this her mother was
to blame.

Well, Gracie, haven't you a word to say ?'
asked her brother at last, surprised at her
long silence.

No, Archie, it does not bear talking
about,' she returned so passionately that he
turned round to look at her. * I must not
even think of it. I must try and shut it all
out of my mind, or I shall be no good to anyone.
But it is hard  hard !' with a quiver of
her lip.

I call it a shame for my father and
mother to sacrifice you in this way ! ' he burst
out, moved to bitter indignation at the sight
of her trouble. * I shall tell my father what
I think about it pretty plainly !*

But this speech recalled Grace to her
senses.

Oh no, dear ! you must do no such thing
promise me you will not. It would be no
good at all ; and it would only make mother
so angry. You know he always thinks as

she does about things, so it would be no use.
I suppose '  with an impatient sigh  ' that I
ought to feel myself complimented at knowing
I cannot be spared. Some girls would be
proud to feel themselves their mother's right
hand ; but to me it does not seem much of a
privilege.'

Don't talk in that way, Grace, it makes
me miserable to hear you. I am more sorry
for you than I am for myself, and yet I am
sorry for myself too. If it were not that my
mother would be too deeply offended, I would
refuse to have Mattie at all. We never have
got on well together. She is a good little
thing in her way, but her awkwardness and
left-handed ways will worry me incessantly.
And then we have not an idea in common  '
but here Grace generously interposed.

Poor old fellow ! as though I did not
know all that ; but you must not vent it on
poor Mattie. She is not to blame for our
disappointment. She would gladly give it
up to me if she could. I know she will do
her utmost to please you, Archie, and she is
so good and amiable that you must overlook
her little failings, and make the best of her.'

It will be rather difficult work, I am
afraid returned her brother grisly. * I shall
always be drawing invidious comparisons between
you both, and thinking what you would
do in her place.'

 All the same you must try and be good to
her for my sake, for I am very fond of Mattie,'
she returned gently ; but she could not help
feeling gratified at the assurance that he
would miss her. And then she put her hand
on his coat-sleeve, and stroked it  a favourite
caress with her. ' It does not bear talking
about  does it, Archie ? It only makes it
feel worse. I think it must be meant as a
discipline for me, because I am so wicked ;
and that it would not do at all for me to be
too happy ;' and here she pressed his arm,
and looked up in his face, with an attempt at
a smile.

No, you are right  talking only makes
it worse,' he returned hurriedly; and then he
stooped  for he was a tall man  and kissed
her on the forehead, just between her eyes,
and then walked to the door whistling a light
air.

Grace did not think him at all abrupt in
VOL. I. 17

thus breaking off the conversation. She had
caught his meaning in a moment ; and knew
the whole business was so painful to him,
that he did not care to dwell on it. When
the tea-bell rang, she prepared herself at once
to accompany him downstairs.

It was Archibald's last evening at home,
and all the family were gathered round the
long tea-table. Since Mr. Drummond's misfortunes,
late dinners had been relinquished,
and more homely habits prevailed in the
household. Mrs. Drummond had indeed
apologized to her son more than once for the
simplicity of their mode of life.

You are accustomed to a late dinner,
Archie. I wished I could have managed it
for you; but your father objects to any alteration
being made in our usual habits.'

He is quite right ; and I should have
been much distressed if you had thought
such alteration necessary,' returned her son,
very much surprised at this reference to
his father. For Mrs. Drummond rarely
consulted her husband on such matters.
In this case, however, she had done so, and
Mr. Drummond had been unusually testy,

indeed, affronted at such a question being
put to him.

I don't know what you mean, Isabella,'
he had replied ; * but I suppose what is
good enough for me is good enough for
Archie,' and then Mrs. Drummond knew
she had made a mistake, for her husband
had felt bitterly the loss of his late dinner.
So Archie tried to fall in with the habits of
his family, and to enjoy the large plum or
seed-cake that invariably garnished the tea-table
; and though he ate but sparingly of the
supper, which always gave him indigestion,
Grace was his only confidante in the matter.
Mr. Drummond, indeed, looked at his son
rather sharply once or twice, as though he
suspected him of fastidiousness. * I cannot
compliment you on your appetite,' he would
say as he helped himself to cold meat ; ' but
perhaps our home fare is not so tempting as
Oxford living ?'

I always say your meat is unusually
good,' returned Archibald amicably. ' If there
be any fault it is in my appetite, but that
Hadleigh air will soon set right.' But though
he answered his father after this tolerant

172

fashion, he always added in a mental aside,
that nine o'clock suppers were certainly barbarous
institutions, and peculiarly deleterious
to the constitution of an Oxford fellow.

Mrs. Drummond looked at them both somewhat
keenly as they entered. In spite of her
resolution she was secretly uncomfortable at
the thought that Archie was displeased with
her ; her daughter's vexation was a burden
that could be more easily borne ; but her
maternal heart yearned for some token that
her boy was not estranged from her. But no
such consolation was to be vouchsafed to her.
She had kept his usual place vacant beside her ;
Archie showed no intention of taking it. He
placed himself by his father, and began talking
to him of a change of Ministry that was
impending, and which would overthrow the
Conservative party. Mrs. Drummond, who
was one of those women who could never be
made to take any interest in politics, was reduced
to the necessity of talking to Mattie in
an undertone, for the other boys never put in
an appearance at this meal ; but as she talked,
she took stock of Grace's pale, abstracted
looks, as she sat with her plate before her,

not pretending to eat, and taking no notice of
Susie and Laura, who chatted busily across
her.

It was not a festive meal ; on the contrary,
there was an unusual air of restraint over the
whole party. The younger members felt instinctively
that there was something amiss.
Archie looked decidedly glum ; and there was
an expression on the mother's face that
they were not slow to interpret. No one
could hear what it was she was saying to
Mattie that made her look so red and nervous
all at once ; but presently she addressed herself
to her husband, breaking into his political
discussion with more than her usual abruptness.


It is all settled, father. I have arranged
with Archie that Matilda should go down to
Hadleigh next month.'

Archie stroked his beard, but did not lookup
or make any remark, though poor Mattie
looked at him beseechingly across the table,
as though imploring a word. His mother
would carry her point ; but he would not pretend
for a moment that he was otherwise than
displeased, or that Mattie would be welcome.

His silence attracted Mr. Drummond's
attention.

Oil, what, you have settled it, you say ?
I hope you are satisfied, Archie, and properly
grateful to your mother for sparing Mattie.
She is to go for a year. Well, it will be a
grand change for her. I should not be surprised
if you were to pick up a husband.
Miss Mattie,' for Mr. Drummond was a man
who, in spite of his cares, was not without
his joke ; but, as usual, it was instantly
frowned down by his wife.

I wonder at you, father, talking such
nonsense before the children. Why are you
giggling, Laura ? It is very unseemly and
ill-behaved. I hope no daughter of mine
has such maidenly notions. Mattie is
going to Hadleigh to be a comfort to her
brother, and to keep his house as a clergyman's
house ought to be kept.'

And you are satisfied, Archie ?' asked Mr.
Drummond, not quite pleased at his wife's
reprimand, and struck anew by his son's
silence.

I consider these questions somewhat unnecessary.
You knew my wishes, sir, on the

subject, and my mother also was the somewhat
uncompromising remark ; * but it appears
that they are not to be met in this
instance. I hope Mattie will be comfortable
and not miss her sisters,' but he did not look
at the poor girl, and the tears came into her
eyes.

Oh, Archie ! I am so sorry ! I never

meant ' she stammered, but her mother

interrupted her.

There is no occasion for you to be sorry
about anything ; you had far better be silent,
Mattie. But you have no tact. Father, if
you have finished your tea, I suppose you
and Archie are going out,' and then Archie
rose from the table and followed his father
out of the room.

It was Isabel's business to put Dottie to
bed. The other girls had to prepare their
lessons for the next day, and went up to the
schoolroom. Mattie made some excuse and
went with them, and Mrs. Drummond and
Grace were left alone.

Grace had some delicate work to finish,
and she placed herself by the lamp. Her
mother had returned to her mending basket;

but as the door closed upon Mattie she

cleared her throat and looked at her daughter.

'Grace, I must say I am surprised at you 1'

Why, mother T But Grace did not lookup
from the task she was running with such
fine even stitches.

I am more than surprised !' continued
Mrs. Drummond severely.  I am disappointed
to see in what a bad spirit you have
received my decision. I did not think a
daughter of mine would have been so blind to
her sense of duty.'

I have said nothing to make you think
that.'

No, you have said nothing, but looks can
be eloquent sometimes. I am not speaking of
Archie, though I can see he is put out too, for
he is a man, and men are not always reasonable
; but that you should place yourself in
such silent opposition to my wishes, it is that
that shocks me.'

There was an ominous sparkle in Grace's
gray eyes, and then she deliberately put down
her work on the table. She had hoped that
her mother would have been contented with
her victory, and not have spoken to her on

the subject, silence was so much safer between
them. But if she were so attacked
she would at least defend herself.

You have no right to speak to me in this
way, mother !'

No right, Grace T Mrs. Drummond
could hardly believe her ears. Never once
had a daughter of hers questioned her right
in anything.

No ; for I have said nothing to bring all
this upon me. I have been perfectly quiet,
and have tried to bear the bitterness of my
disappointment as well as I could. No one
is answerable for their looks, and I, at least,
will not plead guilty on that score.'

Grace, you are answering me very improperly.'


I cannot say that I think so, mother. I
would have been silent, if you had permitted
such silence ; but when you drive me to
speech, I must say what I feel to be the
truth  that I have not been well treated in
this matter.'

Grace !' and Mrs. Drummond paused in
awful silence. Never before had a recusant
daughter braved her to her face.

I have not been well treated continued
Grace firmly, ' in a thing that concerns me
more than anyone else. I have not even
been consulted. You have arranged it all,
mother, without reference to me or my feelings.
Perhaps I ought to be grateful for
being spared so painful a decision; but I
think such a decision should have been permitted
to me.'

You can dare to tell me such things to
my very face !'

Why should I not tell them ?' returned
Grace, meeting her mother's angry glance
unflinchingly. * It seems to me that one
should speak the truth to one's mother.
You have treated me like a child ; and I have
a right to feel sore and indignant. Why did
you not put the whole thing before me, and
tell me that you and my father did not see
how you could spare me ? Do you really
believe that I should have been so wanting
in my sense of duty as to follow my own
pleasure ?'

Grace, I insist upon your silence ! I will
not discuss the matter with you.'

If you insist upon silence, you must be

obeyed, mother; but it is you who have
raised the question between us. But when
you attack me unjustly, T must defend myself


You are forgetting yourself strangely.
Your words are most disrespectful and unbecoming
in a daughter. You tell me to my
face that I am unjust  I, your mother 
because I have been compelled to thwart
your wishes.'

'No  no  not because of that!' returned
Grace, in a voice of passionate pain. ' Why
will you misunderstand me so !  but because
you have no faith in me. You treat me like
a child. You dispute my privilege to decide
in a matter that concerns my own happiness.
You bid me work for you, and you give meno
wage  not a word of praise ; and because
I remonstrate for once in my life, 3'ou insist
on my silence.'

It seems that I am not to be obeyed.'

Oh yes ; you will be obeyed, mother.
After to-night, I will not open my lips to
offend you again. If I have said more than
I ought to have said as a daughter, I will
ask your pardon now ; but I cannot take

back one of my words. They are true 
true !'

I must say your apology is tardy, Grace

Nevertheless it is an apology ; for though
you have hurt me, I must not forget you are
my mother. I know my life will be harder
after this, because of what I have said ; and
yet I would not take back one of my words !'

I am more displeased with you than I
can say,' returned her mother, taking up her
neglected work; and her mouth looked stern
and hard.

Never had her aspect been so forbidding,
and yet never had her daughter feared her
less.

Then if you are displeased with me, I
will go away,' replied Grace, moving from
her seat with gentle dignity. * I wish you
had not compelled me to speak, mother, and
then I should not have offended you ; but as
it is there is no help for it ;' and then she
gathered up her work, and walked slowly out
of the room.

Mrs. Drummond sat moodily in the empty
room that had somehow never seemed so
empty before. Her attitude was as rigid and

uncompromising as usual ; but there was a
perplexed fro\Ti on her brow. For the first
time in her life one of her girls had dared to
assert her own will, and to speak the truth
to her ; and she was utterly nonplussed. It
was not too much to say that she had received
a blow. Her justice and sense of fairness
had been questioned  her very maternal
authority impugned  and that by one of
her own children ! Mattie, who was eight
years older, would not have ventured to cross
her mother's will. Grace had so dared ;
and she was bitterly angry with her. And
yet she had never so admired her before.

How honestly and bravely she had battled
for her rights ; her gray eyes had shone with
fire ; her pale cheeks had glowed with the
passion of her words  for once in her life the
girl had looked superbly handsome.

You have no faith in me ; you treat me
like a child.' Well, she was right; it was
no child, it was a proud woman who was
flinging those hard words at her. For the
first time Mrs. Drummond recognised the
possibility of a will as strong as her own.
In spite of all her authority, Grace had been a

match for her mother  Mrs. Drummond knew
this, and it added fuel to her bitterness.

I know my life will be harder for what I
have said.' Ah, Grace was right there ; it
would be long before her mother would forgive
her for all those words, true as they were ;
and yet in her heart she had never so feared
and admired her daughter. Grace went upto
her own room, where Dottie was asleep ina
little bed very near her sister's ; it was dark
and somewhat cold, but the atmosphere was
less frigid than the parlour downstairs.
Grace's frame was trembling with the force
of her emotion ; her face was burning, and her
hands cold. It was restful and soothing to
put down her aching head on the hard window-ledge
and close her eyes and think out the
pain ! It seemed hours before Isabel came to
summon her to supper, but she made an
excuse that she was not hungry, and refused
to go downstairs.

But you ate nothing at tea, and your head
is aching !' persisted Isabel, who was a bright,
good-natured girl, and in spite of Archie's
strictures decidedly pretty. ' Do let me bring
you something. Mother will not know.'

But Grace refused  she could not eat, and
the sight of food would distress her.

Why not go to bed at once, then ?'
suggested Isabel, which was certainly sensible
counsel. But Grace demurred to this ; she
knew Archie would be up presently to say
good-night to her ; so when Isabel had gone,
she lighted the candle, shading it carefully
from Dottie's eyes ; and then she bathed her
hot face, and smoothed her hair, and took up
her work again.

Archie found her quite calm and busy, but
he was not so easily deceived.

Now, Gracie, you have got one of your
headaches ; it is the disappointment and the
bother, and my going away tomorrow. Poor
little Gracie !'

Oh, Archie, I feel as though I shall never
miss you so much !' exclaimed the poor girl,
throwing down her work, and clinging to him.
When shall I see your dear face again ?  not
until Christmas ?'

And not then, I expect. I shall most
likely run doom. some time in January, and
then I shall try hard to take you back with
me just for a visit. Mattie will be dull, and

wanting to see some of you, and I will not
have one of the others until you have been

I don't believe mother will spare me even
for that,' returned Grace, with a sudden conviction
that her mother's memory was retentive
and that she would be punished in
that way for her sins of this evening ; ' but
promise me, Archie, that you will come, if it
be only for a few days.'

Oh, I will promise you that, I cannot last
longer without seeing you, Grace !' and he
stroked her soft hair as she still clung to
him.

The next day Archibald bade his family
good-bye ; his manner had not changed
towards his mother, and Mrs. Drummond
thought his kiss decidedly cold.

You will be good to Mattie, and try to
make the poor girl happy; you will do at
least as much as this,' she said detaining him
as he was turning from her to seek Grace.

Oh yes, I will be good to her,' he returned
indifferently, ' but I cannot promise
that she will not find her life dull,' and then
he took Grace in his arms and whispered to
her to be patient, and that all would be well

one day, and Mrs. Drummond, though she did
not hear the whisper, saw the embrace and
the long lingering look between the brother
and sister, and pressed her thin lips together
and went back to her parlour and mending-basket,
feeling herself an unhappy mother,
whose love was not requited by her children,
and disposed to be harder than ever towards
Grace, who had inflicted this pain on her.

VOL. I. 18

A VAN IN THE BRAIDWOOD ROAD.

NE bright July morning, Mattie
Drummond walked rapidly up the
Braidwood Eoad, and unlatching
the green door in the wall, let herself into the
large square hall of the Yicarage. This
morning it looked invitingly cool, with its
summer matting and big wickerwork chairs ;
but Mattie was in too great haste to linger,
she only stopped to disencumber herself of
the various parcels with which she was
laden, and then she knocked at the door
of her brother's study, and without waiting
for the reluctant  come in ' that always answered
her hasty rap, burst in upon him.
It was now three months since Mattie had

entered upon her new duties, and it must be
confessed that Archie's housekeeper had rather
a hard time of it. As fur as actual management
went, Mattie fully justified her mother's
eulogium in her household arrangements : she
was orderly and methodical, far more than
Grace would have been in her place ; the
meals were always punctual and well served,
the domestic machinery worked well and
smoothly. Archie never had to complain of
a missing button or a frayed wristbands ; nevertheless
Mattie's presence at the Vicarage was
felt by her brother as a sore burthen. There
was nothing in common between them, nothing
that he cared to discuss with her, or on which
he wished to know her opinion ; he was
naturally a frank outspoken man, one that
demanded sympathy from those belonging to
him ; but with Mattie he was reticent, and as
far as possible restrained in speech.

One reason for this might be that Mattie,
with all her virtues  and she was really a
most estimable little person  was sadly deficient
in tact. She never knew when she
was treading on other people's pet prejudices.
She could not be made to understand that her

IS 2

presence was not always wanted, and that it
was as well to keep silence sometimes.

She would intrude her advice when it was
not needed, in her good-natured way ; she had
always interfered with everything and everybody.
' Meddlesome Mattie ' they had called
her at home.

She was so wonderfully elastic, too, in her
temperament, that nothing long depressed her.
She took all her brother's snubbing in excellent
part ; if he scolded her at dinner-time,
and made the ready tears come to her eyes
for it was not the least of Mattie's sins
that she cried easily, and on every possible
occasion  she had forgotten it by tea-time,
and would chatter to him as happily as ever.

She was just one of those persevering
people who seem bound to be snubbed ; one
could not help it. It was as natural to scold
Mattie as it was to praise other people ; and
yet it was impossible not to like the little
woman, though she had no fine feelings,
as Archie said, and was not thin-skinned.
Grace always spoke a good word for her 
she was very kind to Mattie in her way 
though it must be owned that she showed her

small respect as an elder sister. None of her
brothers and sisters respected Mattie in the
least ; they laughed at her, and took liberties
with her, presuming largely on her good-nature.
' It is only Mattie ; nobody cares
what she thinks,' as Clyde would often say.
Matt the Muddle,' as Frederick named
her.

I wonder what Mattie would say if anyone
ever fell in love with her ?' Grace once
observed in fun to Archie. ' Do you know,
I think she would be all her life thanking her
husband for the unexpected honour he had
done her, and trying to prove to him that he
had not made such a great mistake after all.'

Mattie's husband ! He must be an odd
sort of person, I should think,' and then
Archie laughed, in not the politest manner.
Certainly Mattie was not appreciated by her
family. She was not looking her best this
morning when she went into her brother's
study. She wore the offending plaid dressa
particular large black and white check that
he thought especially ugly. Her hat-trimmings
were frayed, and the straw itself was
burnt brown by the sun, and her hair was ill-arranged

and rough, for she never wasted
much time on her own person, and to crown
the whole, she looked flushed and heated.

Archie, who was sitting at his writing-table
in severely cut ecclesiastical garments, looking
as trim and well-appointed a young
clergyman as one might wish to see, might
be forgiven for the tone of ill-suppressed irritation
with which he said :

Oh, Mattie ! what a figure you look ! I
am positively ashamed that anyone should
see you. That hat is only fit to frighten the
birds.'

Oh, it will do very well for the mornings,'
returned Mattie, perfectly undisturbed at these
compliments.  Nobody looks at me, so what
does it matter T But this remark, which she
made in all simplicity, only irritated him
more.

If you have no proper pride, you might
at least consider my feelings. Do you think
a man in my position likes his sister to go
about like an old beggar-woman ? You are
enough to try anyone's patience, Mattie, you
are, indeed !'

Oh, never mind me and my things,'

returned Mattie coaxingly ;  and don't go on
writing just yet for Archie had taken up his
pen again with a great show of being busy.

I want to tell you something that I know-will
interest you. There are some new people
come to the Friary.'

'What on earth do sou mean?  what
Friary ? I am sure I never heard of such a
place.'

Dear me, Archie, how cross you are this
morning,' observed Mattie in a cheerful voice,
as she fidgeted the papers on the table.

Why, the Friary is that shabby little cottage
just above us  not a stone's throw from this
house.'

Indeed ! Well, I cannot say I am much
interested in the movements of my neighbours.
I am not a gossip like you, Mattie !'
another fling at poor Mattie. ' I wish you
would leave those papers alone. You know
I never allow my things to be tidied, as you
call it, and I am really very busy just now.
I am in the middle of accounts, and I have to
write to Grace, and '

Well, I thought you would like to know,*
and Mattie looked rather crestfallen and disappointed.

' You talked so much about those
young ladies some weeks ago, and seemed
quite sorry not to see them again ; and now  '
but here Archie's indifference vanished, and
he looked up eagerly.

What young ladies  not those in Milner's
Library, who asked about the dressmaker T

The very same,' returned his sister, delighted
at this change of manner. * Oh, I
have so much to tell you that I must sit
down,' planting herself comfortably on the
arm of an easy chair near him. Another time
Archie would have rebuked her for her unladylike
attitude, and told her probably that
Grace never did such things; but now his
interest was so excited that he let it pass for
once. He even suffered her to take off her
old hat and deposit it unreproved on the top
of his cherished papers. ' I was over at
Crump's this morning, to speak to Bobbin
about weeding the garden, when I was surprised
to see a railway van unloading furniture
at the Friary.'

What an absurd name!' sotto voce from
Archie ; but he offered no further check to
Mattie's gossip.

I asked Mrs. Crump, as a matter of
course, the name of the new people ; and she
said it was Challoner. There was a mother
and three daughters, she believed. She had
seen two of them  pretty nice spoken young
creatures, and quite ladies. They had been
down before to see the cottage, and to have
it done up. It looks quite a different place
already  nicely painted, and the shrubs
trimmed. The door was open, and as I
stood at Mrs. Crump's window  peeping
between her geraniums  I saw such a respectable
gray-haired woman, like an upper
servant, carrying something into the house ;
and a moment after one of those young ladies
we saw in the Library  not the pretty one,
but the other  came to the door and spoke to
the men.'

Are you sure you did not make a mistake,
Mattie ?' asked her brother incredulously.
You are very short-sighted  perhaps you
did not see correctly. How can those stylish-looking
girls live in such a shabby place ? I
can hardly believe it possible.'

Oh, it was the same  I am positive about
that. She was in the same cambric dress

you admired. I could see distinctly. I
watched her for a long time ; and then the
pretty one came out and joined her. She
is pretty, Archie  she has such a lovely
complexion.'

But are they poor ?  they don't look so.
What on earth can it mean ?' he asked, in a
perplexed voice ; but Mattie only shook her
head, and went on :

We must find out all about them .
They are worth knowing, I am sure of
that. Poor ?  well, they cannot be rich,
certainly, to live in the Friary ; but they are
gentle people, one can see that in a moment.'

Of course ! who doubted it T was the
somewhat impatient answer.

'Well, but that is not all,' went on Mattie,
too delighted with her brother's interest to
try to curtail her story. ' Of course I could
not stand long watching them, so I did my
errand and came away ; and then I met Miss
Middleton, and we walked down to the library
together to change those books. Miss Milner
was talking to some ladies when we first went
in, and as Miss Masham was not in the shop,
we had to wait our turn, so I had a good look

at them. The elder one was such a pretty,
aristocratic - looking woman  a little too
languid, perhaps, for m} taste ; and the
younger one was a little like Isabel, only
nicer looking. I shouldn't have stared at
them so much  at least, I am afraid I stared,'
went on Mattie, forgetting for the moment
how often she had been taken to task
for this very thing  * but something Miss
Milner said attracted my attention. **I am
not to send it to the Friary then, ma'am ?"
*' Well, no," the lady returned, rather hesitatingly.
She had such a nice voice and
manner, Archie. "My youngest daughter
and I are at Beach House at present ; I am
rather an invalid, and the bustle would be too
much for me. Dulce, we had better have
these things sent to Beach House." And
then the young lady standing by her said :
*' Oh yes, mother, we shall want them this
evening." And then they went out.'

There is a third sister, then ?' observed
Archie, not pretending to disguise his interest
in Mattie 's recital.

Yes, there is a third one ; she is certainly
a little like Isabel ; she has a dimple like

hers, and is of the same height. I asked
Miss Milner, when they were out of hearing,
if their name were Challoner, and if they
were the new people who were coming to live
at the empty cottage on the Braidwood Eoad.
I thought she did not seem much disposed to
give me information. Yes, their name was
Challoner, and they had taken the Friary;
hut they were quite strangers in the town,
and no one knew anything about them. And
then Miss Middleton chimed in ; she said her
father had noticed the young ladies some weeks
ago, and had called her attention to them.
They were very pretty girls, and had quite
taken his fancy ; he had not forgotten them,
and had spoken of them that very morning.
She supposed Mrs. Challoner must he a
widow, and not very well off  did Miss
Milner know. Would you believe it, Archie ?
Miss Milner got quite red, and looked confused.
You know how she enjoys a hit of
gossip generally ; hut the questions seemed
to trouble her. '' They were not at all well
off; she knew that, but nicer young ladies
she had never seen, or wished to see ; and she
hoped everyone would be kind to them, and

not forget they were real-born ladies, in spite

of " and here the old thing got more

confused than ever, and came to a full stop,
and begged to know how she could serve us.'

 It is very strange  very strange indeed,'
returned her brother, in a meditative voice ;
but as Mattie had nothing more to tell him,
he did not discuss the matter any further,
only thanked her for her news, and civilly
dismissed her on the plea that his business
was at a standstill.

But he did not resume his accounts for
some time after he was left alone. Instead of
doing so, he walked to the window, and looked
out in a singularly absent manner. Mattie's
news was somewhat exciting. The idea of
having such pleasant neighbours located within
a stone's throw of the Vicarage was in itself
disturbing to the imagination of a joung man
of eight and-twenty, even though a clergyman.
And then it must be confessed Nan's
charming face and figure had never been
forgotten ; he had looked out for the sisters
many times since his chance encounter with
Phillis, and had been secretly disappointed
at their total disappearance. And now they

proved not mere visitors, but positively inhabitants
of Haclleigli. He would meet them everyday
; and as there was but one church in the
place, they would of course be numbered
amongst his flock. As their future clergyman
he would have a right of entrance to
the cottage.

How soon do you think we ought to call
upon them, Mattie ?' he asked, when he was
seated opposite to his sister at the luncheon
table. The accounts had not progressed very
favourably, and the letter to Grace was not
yet commenced. Mattie's news had been a
sad interruption to his morning's work.

Whom do you mean, Archie ?' she returned,
a little bewildered at this abrupt
remark ; and then, as he frowned at her
denseness, she bethought herself of the new
people. It was not often Archie asked her
advice about anything, but on this occasion
the young Vicar felt himself incompetent to
decide.

I suppose you mean the new folk at the
Friary,' she continued carelessly. ' Oh, they
are only moving in to-day, and they will be
in a muddle for a week, I should think. I

don't think wc can intrude for ten days
or so.'

Not if 3'ou think it will be intrusive,' he
returned rather anxiously ; ' but they are
strangers in the place, and all ladies  there
does not seem to be a man belonging to them
would it not be neighbourly, as we live so
close, just to call, not in a formal way,
you know, but just to volunteer help ? There
are little things you could do for them,
Mattie ; and, as a clergyman, they could not
regard my visit as an intrusion, I should
think. Do you not agree with me ?' looking
at his sister rather gravely.

Well, I don't know,' replied Mattie
bluntly ;  I should not care for strangers
prying into my concerns, if I were in their
place. And yet, as you say, we are such
close neighbours, and one would like to be
kind to the poor things, for the' must be
lonely, settling in a strange new place. I'll
tell you what, Archie,' as his face fell at this
matter-of-fact speech, * it is Thursday, and
they will be sure to be at church on Sunday ;
we shall see them there, and that will be an
excuse for us to call on Monday. We can

say then that we are neighbours, and that we
would not wait until they were all in order.
We can offer to send them things from the
Yicarage, or volunteer help in many little
ways. I think that would be best

Yes, perhaps you are right, and we will
wait until Monday,' returned Archie, taking
up his soft felt hat. * Now I must go on my
rounds, and not waste any more time chattering.'
But though he spoke with unusual
good-nature, he did not invite Mattie to be
his companion, and the poor little woman
betook herself to the solitary drawing-room
and some plain sewing for the rest of the
afternoon.

The young clergyman stood for a moment
irresolutely at the green door, and cast a
longing glance in the direction of the Friary,
where the van was still unloading, and then
he bethought himself that though Mattie had
given orders about the weeding of the garden-paths,
it would be as well to speak to Crump
about the wire fence that was wanted for the
poultry-yard ; and as soon as he had made
up his mind on this point, he walked on
briskly.

The last piece of furniture had just been
carried in ; but, as Mr. Drummond was picking
his way through the straw and debris that
littered the side-path, two girlish figures came
out of the doorway full upon him.

He raised his hat involuntarily but they
drew back at once ; and, as he went out,
confused at this sudden rencontre, the sound
of a light laugh greeted his ear.

How annoying that we should always
be meeting him !' observed Nan innocently.
 Don't laugh, Phillis ; he will hear you.'

My dear, it must be fate,' returned Phillis
solemnly.  I shall think it my duty to warn
Dick if this goes on.' But in spite of her
mischievous speech she darted a quick, interested
look after the handsome young clergyman
as he walked on. Both the girls stood
in the porch for some minutes after they had
made their retreat. They had come out to
cool themselves and to get a breath of air, until
a July sun and Mr. Drummond 's sudden appearance
defeated their intention. They had no
idea that they were watched from behind the
screening geraniums in Mrs. Crump's window;
both of them were enveloped in Dorothy's

VOL. I. 11)

bib-aprons, which hid their pretty rounded
figures. PhilHs's cheeks were flushed, and
her arms were bare to the dimpled elbows ;
and Nan's brown hair was slightly dishevelled.

We look just like cooks !' exclaimed Phillis,
regarding her coarse apron with disfavour ;
but Nan stretched her arms with a little indifference
and weariness.

What does it matter how we look  like
cooks or housemaids ? I am dreadfully tired ;
but we must go in and work, Phil. I wonder
what has become of Dulce ?' And then the
charming vision disappeared from the young
clergyman's eyes, and he was free to fix his
mind on the wire fence that was required for
the poultry-yard.

As soon as he had accomplished his
errand he set his face towards the Vicarage,
for he made up his mind suddenly that
he would call on the Middletons, and
perhaps on Mrs. Cheyne. The latter was a
duty that he owed to his pastoral conscience ;
but there was no need for him to go to the
Middletons. Nevertheless, the father and
daughter were his most intimate friends, and
on all occasions he was sure of Miss Middleton's

sympathy. They lived at Brooklyn
a low white house a little below the
Vicarage. It was a charming house, he
always thought, so well arranged and well
managed ; and the garden  that was the
Colonel's special hobby  was as pretty as a
garden could be. The drawing-room looked
shady and comfortable, for the French windows
opened into a cool veranda, fitted up
with flower-baskets and wicker chairs ; and
beyond lay the trim lawn, with beds of
blazing verbenas and cancellaria. Miss Middleton's
work-table was just within one of the
windows ; but the Colonel, in his grey summer
suit, reclined in a lounging-chair in the
veranda. He was reading the paper to his
daughter, and was just in the middle of last
night's debate ; nevertheless, he threw it aside,
well pleased at the interruption.

I knew how I should find you occupied,'
observed Mr. Drummond, as he exchanged a
smile with Miss Middle ton. He was fully
aware that politics were not to her taste, and
yet every afternoon she listened to such reading,
well content even with the sound of her
father's voice.

192

Elizabeth Middleton was certainly a charming
person. Phillis had called her the  gray-haired
girl and the title suited her. She
was not a girl by any means, having reached
her six-and-thirtieth year ; but her hair was
as silvery as an old woman's, gray and plentiful,
and soft as silk, and contrasted strangely
with her still youthful face.

Without being handsome, Elizabeth Middleton
was beautiful. Her expression was
sweet and restful, and attracted all hearts.
People who were acquainted with her said
she was the happiest creature they knew 
that she simply diffused sunshine by her mere
presence ; such a contrast, they would add, to
her neighbour, Mrs. Cheyne, who bore all
her troubles badly, and was of a proud, fretful
disposition. But then Mrs. Cheyne had
lost her husband and her two children, and
led such a sad, lonely life ; and no such
troubles had fallen to Miss Middleton.

Elizabeth Middleton could afford to be
happy, they said, for she was the delight of
her father's eyes. Her young half-brother,
Hammond, who was with his regiment in India,
was not nearly so dear to the old man ; and of

course that was why she hud never married,
that her father's house might not he left desolate.


This is how people talked ; but not a single
person in Hadleigh knew that Elizabeth
Middleton had had a great sorrow in her life.

She had been engaged for some years most
happily, and with her father's consent, to one
of his brother officers. Captain Sedgwick
was of good family, but poor ; and they were
waiting for his promotion, for at that time
Colonel Middleton would have been unable to
give his daughter any dowry. Elizabeth was
young and happy, and she could afford to
wait ; no girl ever gloried in her lover more
than she did in hers. Capet Sedgwick was
not only brave and singularly handsome, but
he bore a reputation through the whole regiment
for having a higher standard of duty
than most men.

Promotion came at last, and just as Elizabeth
was gaily making preparations for her
marriage, fatal tidings were brought to her.
Major Sedgwick had gone to visit an old
servant in the hospital who had been struck
down with cholera ; he had remained with him

some time, and on Ms return to his bungalow
the same fell disease had attacked him, and
before many hours were over he was dead.
The shock was a terrible one ; in the first
moments of her bitter loss, Elizabeth cried
out that her misery was too great  that all
happiness was over for her in this world, and
that she only prayed that she might be buried
in the same grave with Capet.

The light had not yet come to the poor
soul that felt itself afflicted past endurance,
and could find no reason for such pain. It
could not be said that Elizabeth bore her
trouble better than other girls would have
borne theirs under like circumstances. She
fretted and grew thin, and dashed herself
wildly against the inevitable ; only reproaching
herself for her selfishness and want of
submission when she looked at her father's
careworn face.

But then came a time when light and peace
revisited the wrecked heart  when confused
reasonings no longer beset the poor weak
brain, and filled it with dismay and doubt 
when the Divine Will became her will ; and
there was no longer submission, but a most

joyful suiTGnder. And no one, and least of
all she herself, knew when the darkness was
vanquished hy that clear uprising of pure
radiance, or how those brooding wings of
peace settled on her soul. From that time,
every human being that came within her
radius was welcome as a new object of love.
To give, and yet to give, and never to be
satisfied, was a daily necessity of life to
Elizabeth. * Now there is some one more to
love,' she would say to herself, when a new
acquaintance was brought to her ; and, as the
old adage is true that tells us love begets
love, there was no more popular person in
Hadleigh than Elizabeth Middleton. She
had something to say in praise of everyone ;
not that she was blind to the faults of her
neighbours, but she preferred to be silent, and
ignore them.

And she was especially kind to Mattie.
In the early days of their intimacy, the young
Vicar would often speak to her of his sister
Grace, and lament their enforced separation
from each other. Miss Middleton listened
sympathetically with the same sweet attention
that she gave to every man, woman, and child

that laid claim to it ; but once, when he had
finished, she said rather gravely :

Do you know, Mr. Drummond, that I
think your mother was right T

Eight in dooming Grace to such a life T
he said, pausing in utter surprise at her remark.


Pardon me ; it is not her mother who
dooms her,' returned Miss Middleton quickly,
but duty  her own sense of right  everything
that is sacred. If Mrs. Drummond
had not decided that she could not be spared,
I am convinced, from all you tell me, that
Grace would still have remained at home ;
her conscience would have been too strong
for her."

Well, perhaps you are right,' he admitted
reluctantly. ' Grace is a noble creature, and
capable of any amount of self-sacrifice.'

I am sure of it,' returned Miss Middleton,
with sparkling eyes. ' How I should
like to know her  it would be a real pleasure
and privilege ; but I am very fond of your
sister Mattie, too.'

Fond of Mattie !' it was hardly brotherly,
but he could not help that incredulous tone

in his voice. How could such a superior
woman as Miss Middleton be even tolerant
of Mattie ?

'Oh yes,' she replied quite calmly; *I
have a great respect for your sister. She is
so unselfish and amiable ; and there is something
so genuine in her. Before everything
one wants truth,' finished Elizabeth, taking
up her work.

Now, as the young clergy-man entered the
room, she stretched out her hand to him with
her usual beaming smile.

This is good of you to come so soon
again,* she said, making room for him
between her father and herself ; ' but why
have you not brought Mattie ?' and Archie
felt as though he had received a rebuke.

She is finishing some work he returned,
a little confused ; * that is, what you ladies
call work. It is not always necessary for the
clergy woman to pay visits, is it ?'

The clergy woman, as you call her, is
doing too much. I was scolding her this
morning for not sparing herself more ; I
thought she was not looking quite well, Mr.
Drummond.'

'Oh, Mattie is well enough he replied
carelessly. He had not come to talk about
his sister  a far more interesting subject was
in his mind. ' Do you know, Colonel,' he
went on, with some animation, * that you and
I have new neighbours ? Do you remember
the young ladies in the blue cambric dresses T
and at this question the Colonel threw aside
his paper at once.

Elizabeth has been telling me. I remember
the young ladies perfectly. I could
not help noticing them. They walked so
well  heads up, and as neat and trim as
though they were on parade  pretty creatures,
both of them. Elizabeth pretends not to be
interested, but she is quite excited. Look
at her !'

Nay, father, it is you who can talk of
nothing else ; but it will be very nice to have
such pleasant neighbours. How soon do you
think we may call on them ?'

And then Archie explained, with some little
embarrassment, that he and Mattie thought
of calling the following Monday, and offering
their services.

That is very thoughtful of Mattie. She

is such a kind-hearted Httle creature, and is
always ready to serve everybody

And then they entered into a discussion on
the new-comers that lasted so long that the
tea-things made their appearance ; and shortly
afterwards Mr. Drummond announced that he
must go and call on Mrs. Cheyne.

A VISIT TO THE WHITE HOUSE.

Hitherto Mr. Drummond had acknowledged
his afternoon to bea
success. He had obtained a
glimpse of the new-comers through Mrs.
Crump's screen of geraniums, and had
listened with much interest to Colonel Middleton's
innocent gossip, while Miss Middleton
had poured out their tea. Indeed, his attention
had quite flattered his host.

Really, Drummond is a very intelligent
fellow,' he observed to his daughter, when
they were at last left alone ; ' a very intelligent
fellow, and so thoroughly gentlemanly.'

Yes, he is very nice,' returned Elizabeth ;
 and he seems wonderfully interested in our

new neighbours ;' and here she smiled a Httle
archly.

There was no doubt that Mr. Drummond
had fully enjoyed his visit. Nevertheless, ashe
left Brooklyn, and set his face towards the
White House, his manner changed, and his
face became somewhat grave.

He had told himself that he owed it to his
pastoral conscience to call on Mrs. Cheyne ;
but notwithstanding this monition, he disliked
the duty, for he always felt on these occasions
that he was hardly up to his office, and that
this solitary member of his flock was not disposed
to yield herself to his guidance. He
was ready to pity her if she would allow
herself to be pitied ; but any expression of
sympathy seemed repugnant to her. Anyone
so utterly lonely, so absolutely without interest
in existence, he had never seen or thought
to see ; and yet he could not bring himself
to like her, or to say more than the mere
commonplace utterances of society. Though
he was her clergyman, and bound by the
sacredness of his office to be specially tender
to the bruised and maimed ones of his flock,
he could not get her to acknowledge her

maimed condition to him, or to do anything
but listen to him with cold attention, when
he hinted vaguely that all human beings are
in need of sympathy. Perhaps she thought
him too young, and feared to find his judgments
immature and one-sided ; but certainly
his visits to the White House were failures.
Mrs. Cheyne was still young enough and
handsome enough to need some sort of
chaperonage; and though she professed to
mock at conventionality, she acknowledged
its claims in this respect, by securing the
permanent services of Miss Mewlstone  a
lady of uncertain age, and uncertain acquirements.


It must be confessed that everyone wondered
at Mrs. Cheyne and her choice, for no
one could be less companionable than Miss
Mewlstone.

She was a stout sleepy-looking woman,
with a soft voice ; and in placidity and a certain
cosiness of exterior somewhat resembled
a large white cat. Some people declared she
absolutely purred ; and certainly her small
blue eyes were ready to close on all occasions.
She always dressed in gray, a very unbecoming

colour to a stout person ; and when
not asleep or reading, for she was a great
reader, she seemed always busy with a mass
of soft fleecy wool. No one heard her ever
voluntarily conversing with her patroness.
They would drive together for hours, or pass
whole evenings in the same room, scarcely
exchanging a word. ' Just so, my dear,' she
would says in return to any observation made
to her by Mrs. Cheyne. * ,'
a young wag once nicknamed her.

People stared incredulously when Mrs.
Cheyne assured them her companion was a
very superior woman. They thought it was
only her satire, and did not believe her in the
least. They would have stared still more if
they had really known the extent of Miss
Mewlstone's acquirements.

She seems so stupid, as though she cannot
talk,' one of Mrs. Cheyne's friends said.

Oh yes, she can talk, and very well too,*
returned that lady quietly ; * but she knows
that I do not care about it : her silence is
her great virtue in my eyes. And then she
has tact, and knows when to keep out of the
way,' finished Mrs. Cheyne, with the utmost

frankness ; and, indeed, it may be doubted
whether any other person would have retained
her position so long at the "White
House.

Mrs. Cheyne was no favourite with the
young pastor, nevertheless she was an exceedingly
handsome woman. Before the
bloom of her youth had worn off she had
been considered absolutely beautiful. As
regarded the form of her features, there was
no fault to be found, but her expression was
hardly pleasing. There was a hardness that
people found a little repelling  a bitter, dissatisfied
droop of the lip, a weariness of gloom
in the dark eyes, and a tendency to satire in
her speech, that alienated people's sympathy.

I am unhappy, but pity me if you dare !'
seemed to be written legibly upon her countenance
; and those who knew her best held
their peace in her presence, and then went
away and spoke softly to each other of the life
that seemed wasted and the heart that was so
hardened with its trouble, * What would the
world be if everyone were to bear their
sorrows so badly ?' they would say ; ' there
is something heathenish in such utter want of

resignation. Oh yes, it was very sad, her
losing her husband and children, but it all
happened four or five years ago, and you
know,' and here people's voices dropped a
little ominously, for there were vague hints
afloat,  that things had not always gone
on smoothly at the White House, even when
Mrs. Cheyne had her husband. She had
been an only child, and had married the only
survivor of a large family. Both were handsome,
fulfilled young people ; neither had
been used to contradiction. In spite of their
love for each other, there was a strife of
wills and misunderstandings from the earliest
days of their marriage. Neither knew what
giving up meant, and before many months
were over the White House witnessed many
painful scenes. Herbert Cheyne was passionate,
and at times almost violent ; but there
was no malice in his nature. He stormed
furiously and forgave easily. A little forbearance
would have turned him into a sweet-natured
man ; but his wife's haughtiness and
resentment lasted long ; she never acknowledged
herself in the wrong, never made
overtures of peace, but bore herself on every
VOL. I. 20

occasion as a sorely injured wife, a state of
things singularly provoking to a man of
Herbert Cheyne's irritable temperament.

There was injudicious partisanship as regarded
their children : while Mrs. Cheyne
idolized her boy, her husband lavished most
of his attentions on the baby girl; * papa's
girl,' as she always called herself in opposition
to 'mother's boy.'

Mrs. Cheyne really believed she loved her
boy best, but when diphtheria carried off her
little Janie also, she was utterly inconsolable.
Her husband was far away when it happened ;
he had been a great traveller before his
marriage, and latterly his matrimonial relations
with his wife had been so unsatisfactory
that it had led to virtual separation. Two or
three months before illness, and then death,
had devastated the nursery at the White
House he had set out for a long exploring
expedition in Central Africa.

You make my life so unbearable that, but
for the children, I would never care to set
foot in my home again,' he had said to her in
one of his violent moods; and though he
repented of this speech afterwards, she could

not be brought to believe that he had not
meant it, and her heart had been hard against
him even in their parting.

But before many months were over she
would have given all she possessed  to her
very life  to have recalled him to her side.
She was childless, and her health was broken,
but no such recall was possible. Vague
rumours reached her of some miserable
disaster ; people talked of a missing Englishman.
One of the little party had already
succumbed to fever and hardship, by-and-by
another followed ; the last news that reached
them was that Herbert Cheyne lay at the
point of death in the kraal of a friendly
tribe. Since then the silence had been of the
grave : not one of the party had survived to
bring the news of his last moments ; there
had been illness and disaster from the
first.

When Mrs. Cheyne recovered from the
nervous disorder that had attacked her on
the receipt of this news, she put on widow's
mourning and wore it for two years ; then
she sent for Miss Mewlstone, and set herself
to go through with the burthen of her life.

iso 2

If she found it heavy she never complained ;
she was silent on her own as on other people's
troubles. Only at the sight of a child of two
or three sears old she would turn pale and
draw down her veil, and if it ran up to her,
as would sometimes happen, she would put it
away from her angrily, pushing it away
almost with violence, and no child was ever
suffered to cross her threshold.

The drawing-room at the White House was
a spacious apartment with four long windows
opening on the lawn. Mrs. Cheyne was sitting
in her low chair reading, with Miss Millstone
at the further end of the room with her
knitting-basket beside her; two or three greyhounds
were grouped near her. They all
rushed forward with furious barks as Mr.
Drummond was announced, and then leaped
joyously round him ; Mrs. Cheyne put down
her book and greeted him with a frosty
smile.

She had laid aside her widow's weeds, but
still dressed in black, the sombreness of her
apparel harmonizing perfectly with her pale,
creamy complexion. Her dress was always
rich in material, and most carefully adjusted.

In her younger days it had been an art with
her  almost a passion  and had grown into a
matter of custom.

You are very good to come again so soon,
Mr. Drummond she said, as she gave him
her hand. The words were civil; but a
slight inflexion on the word * soon ' made
Mr. Drummond feel a little uncomfortable.
Did she think he called too often ? He
wished he had brought Mattie ; only last time
she had been so satirical, and had quizzed
the poor little thing unmercifully; not that
Mattie had found out that she was being
quizzed.

I hardly thought I should find you at
home, it is so fine an afternoon ; but I made
the attempt, you see,* he continued, a little
awkwardly.

*Your parochial conscience was uneasy, 1
suppose, because I was missing at church ?'
she returned somewhat slyly. ' You would
make a capital overseer, Mr. Drummond ' 
with a short laugh.  A headache is a good
excuse, is it not ? I had a headache, had I
not. Miss Mewlstone ?'

'Yes, my dear, just so,' returned Miss

Mewlstone. She always called her patroness
my dear

Miss Mewlstone gave me the heads of the
sermon, so it was not quite labour lost,
as regards one of your flock. I am afraid
you think me a black sheep because I stay
away so often  a very black sheep, eh,
Mr. Drummond T

It is not for me to judge,' he said, still
more awkwardly. ' Headaches are very fair
excuses; and if one be not blessed with good
health '

My health is perfect,' she returned, interrupting
him ruthlessly. * I have no such
convenient plea under which to shelter myself.
Miss Mewlstone suffers far more from
headaches than I do. Don't you, Miss
Mewlstone T

Just so ; yes, indeed, my dear,' proceeded
softly from the other end of the
room.

I am sorry to hear it,' commenced Mr.
Drummond, in a sympathizing tone of voice.
But his tormentor again interrupted him.

I am a sad backslider, am I not ? I
wonder if you have a sermon ready for me ?

Do you lecture your parishioners, Mr. Drummond,
rich as well as poor ? What a pity
it is you are so young ! Lectures are more
suitable with gray hair ; a hoary head might
have some chance against my satire. A
woman's tongue is a difficult thing to keep
in order, is it not ? I dare say you find that
with Miss Mattie ?'

Mr. Drummond was literally on thorns.
He had no repartee ready. She was secretly
exasperating him as usual, making his youth
a reproach, and rendering it impossible for
him to be his natural frank self with her. In
her presence he was always at a disadvantage.
She seemed to take stock of his learning, and
to mock at the idea of his pastoral claims.
It was not the first time she had called herself
a black sheep, or had spoken of her scanty
attendances at church. But as yet he had
not dared to rebuke her ; he had a feeling
that she might fling back his rebuke with a
jest, and his dignity forbade this. Some day
he owed it to his conscience to speak a word
to her  to tell her of the evil effects of such
an example ; but the convenient season had
not yet arrived.

He was casting about in his own mind for
some weighty sentence with which to answer
her ; but she again broke in upon his silence.

It seems that I am to escape to-day. I
hope you are not a lax disciplinarian; that
comes of being young. Youth is more
tolerant, they say, of other people's errors 
they have their own glass houses to mind.'

You are too clever for me, Mrs. Cheyne,'
returned the young man, with a deprecating
smile that might have disarmed her. ' No, I
have not come to lecture  my mission is
perfectly peaceful, as befits this lovely afternoon.
I wonder what you ladies find to do
all day ?' he continued, abruptly changing the
subject, and trying to find something that
would not attract her satire.

Mrs. Cheyne seemed a little taken aback
by this direct question ; and then she drew
up her beautiful head a little haughtily, and
laughed.

Ah, you are cunning, Mr. Drummond.
You found me disposed to take the offensive
in the matter of church-going, and now you
are on another track. There is a lecture
somewhere in the background. How doth

the little busy bee, etc. Now don't frown ' 
as Mr. Drummond knitted his brows and
really looked annoyed  ' I will not refuse to
be catechized.'

I should not presume to catechize you
he returned hastily.  I appeal to Miss
Mewlstone if my question were not a very
innocent one.'

Just so  just so,' replied Miss Mewlstone ;
but she looked a little alarmed at this appeal.

Oh, very innocent  oh, very so.'

With two against me I must yield,' returned
Mrs. Cheyne, with a curl of her lip.

What do we do with our time, Miss Millstone
? Your occupation speaks for itself 
it is exquisitely feminine. Don't tell Miss
Mattie, Mr. Drummond, but I never work  I
would as soon arm myself with a dagger as a
needle or a pair of scissors. When I am not
in the air, I paint  I only lay aside my
palette for a book.'

'You paint!' exclaimed Archie, with sudden
interest. It was the first piece of information
he had yet gleaned.

Yes,' she returned indifferently, * one must
do something to kill time, and music was

never my forte. I sketch and draw and
paint after my own sweet will. There are
portfolios full of my sketches in there '  with
a movement of her hand towards a curtained
recess. ' No  I know what you are going to
say  you will ask to see them ; but I never
show them to anyone.'

For what purpose, then, do you paint
them ?' were the words on his lips ; but he
forbore to utter them. But she read the
question in his eyes.

Did I not say one must kill time ?' she
returned rather irritably ; ' the occupation is
soothing  surely that is reason enough.'

It is a good enough reason, I suppose,'
he replied reluctantly, for surely he must say
a word here ; ' but one need not talk about
killing time with so much that one could do.'

Then there came a gleam of suppressed
mischief in her eyes.

Yes, I know  you may spare me that. I
will listen to it all next Sunday if you will,
when you have it your own way, and one
cannot sin against decorum and answer you.
Yes, yes  there is so much to do, is there
not ?  hungry people to be fed and sick to

visit  all sorts of disagreeable that people
call duties. Ah, I am a sad sinner ! I only
draw for my own amusement, and leave the
poor old world to get on without me. "What
a burthen I must be on your conscience, Mr.
Drummond  heavier than all the rest of your
parish ! What, are you going already ? and
Miss Mewlstone has never given you any
tea

Then Archie explained very shortly that
he had partaken of that beverage at Brooklyn,
and his leave-taking was rather more formal
than usual. He was very much surprised, as he
stood at the hall-door, that always stood open
in the summer, to hear the low sweep of a
dress over the tesselated pavement behind
him, and to see a white pudgy hand laid on
his coat-sleeve.

My dear Miss Mewlstone, how you
startled me T

Just so  yes, I am afraid I did, Mr.
Drummond ; but I just wanted to say 
never mind all that nonsense ; come again,
she likes to see you, she does, indeed. It is
only her way to talk so ; she means no harm,
poor dear  oh, none at all !'

'Excuse me returned Archie, in a hurt
voice, ' but I think you are mistaken. Mrs.
Cheyne does not care for my visits, and shows
me she does not ; if it were not my duty I
should not come so often

*No, no, just so; but all the same it
rouses her and does her good. It is a bad
day with her, poor dear! the very day the
darlings were taken ill  four years ago. Now
don't go away, and fancy things, don't, there's
a dear young man ; come as often as you can,
and try and do her good

*0h, if I only knew how that is to be
done returned Archie slowly; but he was
mollified in spite of himself. There were tears
in Miss Mewlstone's little blue eyes ; perhaps
she was a good creature after all.

'1 will come again; but not just yet,' he
said, nodding to her good-humouredly ; but
as he walked down the road, he told himself
that Mrs. Cheyne had never made herself so
disagreeable, and that it would be long before
he set foot in the White House again.

Chapter I.

HILL IS found it difficult during the
next few days to reconcile divided
sympathies ; a nice adjustment of
conflicting feelings seemed almost impossible.
Nan was so simply, so transparently happy,
that no sister worthy of the name could refuse
to rejoice with her ; a creature so brimming
over with gladness, with contented love, was
certain to reflect heart-sunshine. On the
other hand, there was Mr, Drummond ! To
be glad and sorry in a breath was as provoking
to a feeling woman as the traveller's blowing

VOL. III. 41

hot and cold was to the satyr in the
fable.

In trying to preserve an even balance
Phillis became decidedly cross. She was
one who liked a clear temperature  neither
torrid nor frigid. Too much susceptibility
gave her an east-windy feeling; to be always
at the fever-point of sympathy with one's
fellow creatures would not have suited herat
all.

Nan, who possessed more sweetness of
temper than keenness of psychological insight,
could not understand what had come to
Phillis. She was absent, a trifle sad, and
yet full of retort. At times she seemed to
brim over with a wordy wisdom that made no
sort of impression.

One evening as they were retiring to bed.
Nan beckoned her into her little room, and
shut the door. Then she placed a seat invitingly
by the open window, which was
pleasantly framed by jasmine ; and then she
took hold of Phillis's shoulders in a persuasive
manner.

Now, dear,' she said coaxingly, * you shall
just tell me all about it.'

Phillis looked up, a little startled. Then,
as she met Nan's gentle, penetrative glance,
she presented a sudden blank of non-comprehension
 most telling on such occasions 
and yawned slightly.

 What do you mean, Nannie ?' in a somewhat
bored tone.

Come, dear, tell me,' continued Nan, with
cheerful pertinacity. ' You are never dull or
touchy without some good reason. What has
been the matter the last few days ? Are you
vexed or disappointed about anything ? Are
you sure  quite sure you are pleased about
Dick T  the idea occurring to her suddenly
that Phillis might not approve of their imprudent
engagement.

Oh, Nannie, how absurd you are !' returned
Phillis pettishly. ' Have I not told
you a dozen times since Wednesday how
delighted I am that you have come to an
understanding ! Have I not sounded his
praises until I was hoarse ! Why, if I had
been in love with Dick myself I could not
have talked about him more.'

Yes, I know you have been very good,
dear ; but still, I felt there was something.'

412

Oh clear no !' returned Phillis decidedly,
and her voice was a little hard. ' The fact is,
you are in the seventh heaven yourself, and
you expect us to be there too. Not that I
wonder at you, Nannie, because Dick  dear
old fellow  is ever so nice.'

She threw in this last clause not without
intention, and of course the tempting bait
took at once.

I never knew anyone half so good,' replied
Nan, in a calmly satisfied tone. ' You have
hinted once or twice, Phil, that you thought
him rather too young  that our being the
same age was a pity ; but, do you know, in
Dick's case it does not matter in the least.
No man double his age could have made his
meaning more plain, or have spoken better to
the purpose. He is so strong and self-reliant
and manly; and with all his fun, he is so
unselfish.'

He will make you a very good husband,
Nan ; I am sure of that.'

I think he will,' returned Nan, with a faraway
look in her eyes. She was recalling
Dick's speech about the nest that he wanted
to make cosy for some one. * Phil dear !' she

went on, after this blissful pause, ' I wish you
had a Dick too

Good gracious, Nanny !'

I mean  you know what I mean  someone
to whom you are first, and who has a
right to care for you ; it gives such a meaning
to one's life. Of course it will come in time ;
no one can look at you and not prophesy a
happy future ; it is only I who am impatient
and want it to come soon.'

Phillis wrinkled her brows thoughtfully over
this speech ; she seemed inclined to digest and
assimilate it.

I dare say you are right she replied,
after a pause. ' Yes ; it would be nice, no
doubt.'

When the real lie comes, you will find
how nice it is,' rejoined Nan, with sympathetic
readiness. ' Do you know, Phil, the idea has
once or twice occurred to me that Mr. Drummond
comes rather often;' but here PhilHs
shook ofi" her hand and started from her
chair.

There is a moth singeing its sings. Poor
wee beastie ! let me save it, if it be not too
late ;' and she chased the insect most patiently

until the blue-gray wings fluttered into her
hand.

There, I have saved him from utter destruction
!' she cried triumphantly, leaning
out into the darkness. ' He has scorched
himself  that is all ;' then, as she walked
back to her sister, her head was erect, and
there was a beautiful earnest look upon her
face.

Nannie, I don't want to find fault with
you, but don't you remember how we used to
pride ourselves, in the dear old days, in not
being like other girls  the Paines, for example,
or even Adelaide Sartoris, who used to gossip
so much about young men V

Nan opened her eyes widely at this, but
made no answer.

We must not be different now, because our
life is narrower and more monotonous. I
know, talking so much over our work, we have
terrible temptations to gossip ; but I can't
bear to think that we should ever lower our
standard, ever degenerate into the feeble
girlishness we abhor. We never used to talk
about young men. Nan, except Dick ; and
that did not matter. Of course we liked

them in their places, and had plenty of fun,
and tormented them a little ; but you never
made such a speech as that at Glen Cottage.*

Oh dear ! oh dear ! What have I done ?'
exclaimed Nan, much distressed at this rebuke.
I do think you are right, Phil ; and it was
naughty of me to put such a thing into your
head.'

You have put no idea into my head,' replied
Phillis, with crisp obstinacy. ' There, I
am only moralizing for my own good, as well
as yours. Small beginnings make great endings.
If we once began to gossip, wee might
end by flirting ; and, Nan, if you knew how

I hate that sort of thing ' and Phillis

looked grand and scornful.

Yes, dear ; and I know you are right,'
returned Nan humbly. She was not quite
sure what she had done to provoke this outburst
of high moral feeling ; but she felt
Phillis was dreadfully in earnest. They
kissed each other rather solemnly after that,
and Phillis was suffered to depart in silence.

That night there was no wistful little
prayer that Mr. Drummond might be comforted
 Phillis had too many petitions to

offer up on lier own account. She was accusing
herself of pride, and Pharisaism, and
hypocrisy, in no measured terms. ' Not like
other girls ! I am worse  worse,' she said to
herself. And then, among other things, she
asked for the gift of content  for a quiet,
satisfied spirit, not craving or embittered 
strength to bear her own and her friend's
troubles, and far-looking faith to discern  God's
perfectness round our incompleteness  round
our restlessness His rest.'

The following evening, as Phillis was sorting
out patterns in the work-room, a note
was brought to her from the White House.
It was in Mrs. Cheyne's handwriting, and,
like herself, strangely abrupt.

Your visits are like angels' visits  extremely
rare it began. * I am afraid I have
frightened you away, as I have frightened the
parson. I thought you had more wit than
he to discern between mannerism and down-light
ill-humour. This evening the temperature
is equable  not the sign of a brooding
cloud ; so put on your hat, like a good girl,
and come over. Miss Mewlstone and I will
be prepared to welcome you.'

You had better go observed Nan, who
had read the note over her sister's shoulder;
you have worked so dreadfully hard all day,
and it will be a little change.'

No one cares for east-winds as a change,'
replied Phillis drily ; nevertheless, she made
up her mind that she would go. She was
beginning to dread being summoned to the
White House ; she felt Mrs. Cheyne alternately
fascinated and repelled her. She was
growing fond of Miss Mewlstone ; but then,
on these occasions, she had so little intercourse
with her. The charitable instinct that
was always ready to be kindled in Phillis's
nature prompted her to pay these visits ; and
yet she always went reluctantly.

She had two encounters on the road, both
of which she had foreseen with nice presentiment.


The first was with Mr. Drummond.

He was walking along slowly, with his
eyes on the ground. A sort of flush came to
his face when he saw Phillis ; and then he
stopped, and shook hands, and asked after
them all comprehensively, yet with constraint
in his voice. Phillis told him rather hurriedly

that she was going to the White House  Mrs.
Cheyne had sent for her.

Archie smiled.

I am glad she does not send for me. I
have not been there for a long time. Sarcasms
not an attractive form of welcome. It
slams the door in a man's face. I hope you
will not get some hard hits, Miss Challoner ;'
and then he went on his way.

As she approached Mrs. Williams's cottage,
Mr. Dancy was, as usual, leaning against the
little gate. He stepped out in the road, and
accosted her.

I have not called on your mother,' he
began, rather abruptly. ' After all, I thought
it best not to trouble her just now. Can
you spare me a few minutes ? or are you
going in there ?' looking towards the White
House.

I am rather in a hurry,' returned Phillis,
surprised at his manner, it seemed so agitated.
I am already late, and Mrs. Cheyne will be
expecting me.'

Very well  another time,' he replied,
stepping back without further ceremony ; but
until Phillis 's figure disappeared in the trees

lie watched her, leaning still upon the little
gate.

Mrs. Cheyne received her with a frosty
smile ; but, on the whole, her manner was
more gracious than usual, and by-and-by it
thawed completely.

She was a little captious at first, it was
true ; and she snubbed poor Miss Mewlstone
decidedly once or twice  but then, Miss
Mewlstone was used to being snubbed  but
with Phillis she was sparing of sarcasms:
After a time she began to look kindly at the
girl ; then she bade her talk rather peremptorily,
because she liked her voice, and found
it pleasant to listen to her ; and by-and-by
Phillis grew more at her ease, and her girlish
talk rippled on as smoothly as possible.

Mrs. Cheyne's face softened and grew
strangely handsome as she listened ; she was
drawing Phillis out  leading her to speak of
the old life, and all their youthful sources of
happiness. Then she fell into a retrospect of
her own young days, when she was a spoiled
madcap girl, and had all sorts of daring
adventures.

Phillis was quite fascinated ; she was even

disappointed when Miss Mewlstone pointed
out the lateness of the hour.

I have enjoyed myself so much,' she said,
as she put on her hat.

I meant you to enjoy yourself,' returned
Mrs. Cheyne quietly, as she drew the girl's
face down to hers. * I have given you such
a bad impression, that you look on me as a
sort of moral bugbear. I can be very
different when I like, and I have liked to be
agreeable to-night ;' and then this strange
woman took up a rich cashmere shawl from
the couch where she was lying, and folded it
round Phillis's shoulders. ' The evenings are
chilly. Jeffreys can bring this back with her ;'
for Mrs. Cheyne had already decided that this
time her maid should accompany Phillis to the
cottage.

Phillis laughed in amused fashion as she
saw the reflection of herself in one of the
mirrors ; her figure looked quite queenly,
enveloped in the regal drapery. ' She has
forgotten all about the dressmaking,' she
thought to herself, as she tripped downstairs.
It was a lovely moonlight evening; the
Avenue was white and glistening in the

soft light ; the trees cast weird shadows on
the grass. PhilHs was somewhat surprised
to see in the distance Mr. Dancy's tall figure,
pacing to and fro before the lodge-gate. He
was evidently waiting for her ; for as she
approached he threw away his cigar and
joined her at once. Jeffreys, who thought he
was some old acquaintance, dropped behind
very discreetly, after the manner of waiting-women.


How long you have stayed this evening !
I have been walking up and down for more
than an hour watching for you,' he began,
with curious abruptness.

This and no more did Jeffreys hear before
she lingered out of earshot. The lady's-maid
thought she perceived an interesting
situation, and being of a susceptible and sympathetic
temperament, with a blighted attachment
of her own, there was no fear of her
intruding. Phillis looked round once, but
Jeffreys was absorbed in her contemplations
of the clouds.

I thought you were never coming,' he
continued ; and then he stopped all at once,
and caught hold of the fringe of the shawL

This is not yours ; I am sure I have seen
Magdalene in it. Pshaw ! what am I saying ?
the force of old habit. I knew her once as
Magdalene.'

It is dreadfully heavy, and, after all, the
evening is so warm,' returned Phillis, taking
no notice of this incoherent speech.

Let me carry it,' he rejoined, with singular
eagerness ; ' it is absurd, a wrap like that on
such a night ;' and while Phillis hesitated, he
drew the shawl from her shoulders and hung
it over his arm, and all the way his disengaged
right hand rested on the folds, touching
it softly from time to time, as though the
mere feeling of the texture pleased him.

How was she to-night ?' he asked, coming
a little closer to Phillis, and dropping his
voice as he spoke.

"Who  Mrs. Cheyne ? Oh, she was charming
! just a little cold and captious at first,
but that is her way. But this evening she
was bent on fascinating me, and she quite
succeeded; she looked ill though, but very,
very beautiful.'

 She never goes out. I cannot catch a
glimpse of her,' he returned hurriedly. * Miss

Challoner, I am going to startle  shock you,
perhaps ; but I have thought about it all until
my head is dizzy, and there is no other way.
Please give me your attention a moment for
Phillis, with a vague sense of uneasiness, had
looked round for Jeffreys. ' I must see you
alone ; I must speak to you where we shall
not be interrupted. To call on your mother
swill be no good ; you and only you can help
me. And you are so strong and merciful  I
can read that in your eyes  that I am sure of
your sympathy, if you will only give me a
hearing.'

Mr. Dancy ! oh, what can you mean ?'
exclaimed Phillis. She was dreadfully
frightened at his earnestness, but her voice
was dignified, and she drew herself away
with a movement full of pride and hauteur.
You are a stranger to me  you have no
right '

 The good Samaritan was a stranger too.
Have you forgotten that ?' he returned, in a
voice of grave rebuke. ' Oh, you are a girl 
you are thinking of your mother ! I have
shocked your sense of propriety, my child ;
for you seem a child to me, who have lived

and suffered so much. Would you hesitate an
instant if some poor famishing wretch were
to ask you for food or water ? Well, I am
that poor wretch. What I have to tell you
is a matter of life and death to me. Only a
woman  only you can help me ; and you
shrink because we have not had a proper
introduction. My dear young lady, you have
nothing to fear from me. I am unfortunate,
but a gentleman  a married man, if that
will satisfy your scruples '

But my mother,' faltered Philos, not
knowing what to say to this unfortunate
stranger, who terrified and yet attracted herby
turns.

Never had she heard a human voice so
persuasive, and yet so agonized in its intensity.
A conviction of the truth of his
words seized upon her as she listened  that
he was unhappy, that he needed her sympathy
for some purpose of his own, and yet that she
herself had nothing to do with his purpose.
But what would Nan say if she consented 
if she acceded to such an extraordinary
proposition  to appoint a meeting with a
stranger ?

It is life and death to me  remember
that V continued Mr. Dancy, in that low,,
suppressed voice of agitation. ' If you refuse
on the score of mere girlish propriety, you
will regret it. I am sure of that. Trust to
your own brave heart, and let it answer for
you. Will you refuse this trifling act of
mercy  just to let me speak to you alone, and
tell you my story ? When you have heard that,
you will take things into your own hands.'

Phillis hesitated, and grew pale with
anxiety ; but the instincts of her nature were
stronger than her prudence. From the first
she had believed in this man, and felt interested
in him and his mysterious surroundings.
' One may be deceived in a face, but
never in a voice,' she had said in her pretty
dictatorial way ; and now this voice was
winning her over to his side.

It is not right ; but Vshat can I do ? You

say I can help you ' and then she paused.

To-morrow morning I have to take some
work to Rock Building. I shall not be long.
But I could go on the beach for half-an-hour.
Nan would spare me. I might hear your story
then.'

VOL. III. 42

She spoke rapidly and rather ungraciously
as though she were dispensing largesse to a
troublesome mendicant ; but Mr. Dancy's
answer was humble in its intense gratitude.

God bless you ! I knew your kind heart
was to be trusted. ' There  I will not come
any farther. Good-night ; good-night. A
thousand thanks ;' and before Phillis could
reply this strange being had left her side, and
was laying the cashmere shawl in Jeffreys's
arms slowly and tenderly, as though it were a
child.

Phillis was glad that Dulce opened the door
to her that night, for she was afraid of Nan's
questioning glance. Nan was tired, and had
retired early ; and as Dulce was sleepy too,
Phillis was now left in peace. She passed
the night restlessly, waking up at all sorts of
untimely hours, her conscience pricking her
into wakefulness. To her well-ordered nature
there was something terrifying in the thought
that she should be forced to take such a step.

Oh, what would mother and Nan say ?'
was her one cry. ' I know I am dreadfully
impulsive and imprudent, but Nan would think
I am not to be trusted;' but she had passed

lier word, and nothing now would have induced
her to swerve from it.

She ate her breakfast silently, and with a
sense of oppression and guilt quite new to her.
She grew inwardly hot whenever Nan looked
at her, which she did continually, and with
the utmost affection. Before the meal was
over, however, Miss Middleton and Mattie
made their appearance, and in the slight
bustle of entrance Phillis managed to effect
her escape.

The hour that followed bore the unreality
of a nightmare outwardly ; Phillis was
the grave business-like dressmaker. The
lady who had sent for her, and who was a
stranger to Hadleigh, was much struck with
her quiet self-possessed manners and ladylike
demeanour.

'Her voice was quite refined,' she said
afterwards to her daughter. 'And she had
such a nice face and beautiful figure ; I am
sure she is a reduced gentlewoman, for her
accent was perfect. I am quite obliged to
Miss Milner for recommending us such a
person, for she evidently understands her
business. One thing I noticed, ida, the

42 2

way in which she quietly laid down the
parcel, and said it should be fetched presently.
Any ordinary dressmaker in a small town like
this would have carried it home herself.'

Poor Phillis ! she had laid down the parcel
and drawn on her well-fitting gloves with a
curious sinking at her heart ; from the window
of the house in Rock Building she could distinctly
see Mr. Dancy walking up and down
the narrow plat of grass before the houses,
behind the tamarisk hedge, his foreign-looking
cloak and slouch hat making him conspicuous.

There is that queer-looking man again,
mamma exclaimed one of the young ladies,
who was seated in the window. * I am sure
he is some distinguished foreigner; he has
such an air with him.'

Phillis listened to no more, but hurried
down the stairs, and then prepared to cross
the green with some degree of trepidation.
She was half afraid that Mr. Dancy would
join her at once, in the full view of curious
eyes ; but he knew better. He sauntered on
slowly until she had reached the Parade, and
was going towards a part of the beach where
there was only a knot of children wading

knee-deep in the water, sailing a toy-boat.
She stood and watched them dreamily, until
the voice she expected sounded in her ear.

True as steel ! All, I was never deceived
in a face yet. Where shall we sit, Miss
Challoner ? Yes, this is a quiet corner, and
the children will not disturb us. Look at
that urchin, with his bare brown legs and
curly head ; is he not a study ? Kh, if he

had Heed  my ' and then he sighed, and

threw himself on the beach.

Well T observed Phillis interrogatively.
She was inclined to be short with him this
morning. She had kept her word, and put
herself into this annoying position ; but there
must be no hesitation, no beating about the
bush, no loss of precious time. The story she
had now to hear must be told, and without
delay.

Mr. Dancy raised his eyes as he heard the
tone, and then he took off his spectacles as
though he felt them an encumbrance. PhilHs
had a very good view of a pair of handsome
eyes, with a lurking gleam of humour in them,
which speedily died away into sadness.

You are in a hurry ; but I was thinking

low I could best begin without startling you.
But I may as well get it out without any
prelude. Miss Challoner, to Mrs. Williams
I am only Mr. Dancy ; but my real name is
Herbert Dancy Cheyne.'

CHAPTER II.

MISS Millstone HAS AN INTERRUPTION.

Herbert Nancy CHEYNE !'

As he pronounced the name
r slowly and with marked emphasis,
a low cry of uncontrollable astonishment broke
from Phillis ; it was so unexpected. She
began to shiver a little from the sudden
shock.

There, I have startled you  and no
wonder ; and yet how could I help it ? Yes
he repeated calmly ; * I am that unfortunate
Herbert Cheyne whom his own wife believes
to be dead.'

Whom everyone believes to be dead corrected
Phillis, in a panting breath.

Is it any wonder?' he returned vehemently ;

and his eyes darkened, and his whole features
worked as though with the recollection of
some unbearable pain. ' Have I not been
snatched from the very jaws of death ? Has
not mine been a living death, a hideous grave,
for these four years ?' And then hurriedly
and almost disconnectedly, as though the
mere recalling the past was torture to him, he
poured into the girl's shrinking ears fragments
of a story so stern in its reality, so terrible
in its details, that, regardless of the children
that played on the margin of the water,
Phillis hid her face in her hands and wept
(or sheer pity.

Wounded, bereft of all his friends, and left
apparently dying in the hands of a hostile
tribe, Herbert Cheyne had owed his life to
the mercy of a woman  a poor, degraded, ill-used
creature, half-witted and ugly, but who
had not lost all the instincts of her womanhood,
and who fed and nursed the white
stranger as tenderly as though he were her
own son.

While the old negress lived, Herbert
Cheyne had been left in peace to languish
back to life, through days and nights of intolerable

suffering, until he had regained a
portion of his old strength; then a fever
carried off his protectress, and he became
virtually a slave.

Out of pity for the tender-hearted girl who
listened to him, Mr. Cheyne hurried over this
part of his sorrowful past. He spoke briefly
of indignities, abuse, and at last of positive
ill treatment. Again and again his life had
been in danger from brute violence ; again
and again he had striven to escape, and had
been recaptured with blows.

Phillis pointed mutely to his scarred wrists,
and the tears flowed down her cheeks.

Yes, yes ; these are the marks of my
slavery he replied bitterly. ' They were a
set of hideous brutes ; and the fetish they
worshipped was cruelty. I carry about me
other marks that must go with me to my
grave ; but there is no need to dwell on these
horrors. He sent His angel to deliver me,*
he continued reverently ; * and again my
benefactor was a woman.'

And then he went on to tell Phillis that
one of the wives of the chief in whose
service he was took pity on him, and aided

him to escape on the very night before some
great festival, when it had been determined to
kill him. This time he had succeeded ; and,
after a series of hair-breadth adventures, he
had fallen in with some Dutch traders, who
had come far into the interior in search of
ivory tusks. He was so burnt by the sun
and disfigured by paint, that he had great
difficulty in proving his identity as an
Englishman. But at last they had suffered
him to join them, and after some more
months of wandering he had worked his way
to the coast.

There misfortune had again overtaken him
in the form of a long and tedious illness.
Fatigue, disaster, anguish of mind, and a
slight sunstroke, had taken dire effect upon
him ; but this time he had fallen into the
hands of good Samaritans. The widowed
sister of the Consul, a very Dorcas of good
vvorks, had received the miserable stranger
into her house ; and she and her son, like
Elijah's widow of Zarephath, had shared with
him their scanty all.

They were very poor, but they pinched
themselves for the sake of the stricken wretch

that was thrown on their mercy. It was a
woman again who succoured me the third
time continued Mr. Cheyne ; * you may
judge how sacred women are in my eyes
now ! Dear motherly Mrs. Van Hollies ! when
she at last suffered me to depart, she kissed
and blessed me as though I were her own
son. Never to my dying day shall I forget
her goodness. My one thought, after seeing
Magdalene, will be how I am to repay her
goodness  how I can make prosperity flow in
on the little household, that the cruse and
cake may never fail !'

 But,' interrupted Phillis, at this point,
 did you not write, or your friends Write for
you, to England ?'

Mr. Cheyne smiled bitterly.

It seems as though some strange fatality
were over me. Yes, I wrote. I wrote to
Magdalene, to my lawyer, and to another
friend who had known me all my life, but the
ship that carried these letters was burnt at
sea. I only heard that when I at last worked
my way to Portsmouth as a common sailor,
and in that guise presented myself at my
lawyer's chambers. Poor man ! I thought

lie would have fainted when he saw me. He
owned afterwards he was a believer in ghosts
at that moment

How long ago was that ?' asked Phillis
gently.

Two months ; not longer. It was then I
heard of my children's death  of my wife's
long illness and her strange state. I was ill
myself, and not fit to battle through anymore
scenes. Mr. Standish took me home
until I had rested and recovered myself a
little ; and then I put on this disguise  not
that much of that is necessary, for few people
would recognise me, I believe  and came
down here and took possession of Mrs.
Williams's lodgings.'

Phillis looked at him with mute questioning
in her eyes. She did not venture
to put it into words, but he understood
her.

Why have I waited so long, do you ask ?
and why am I living here within sight of my
own house, a spy on my own threshold and
wife ? My dear Miss Challoner, there is a
bitter reason for that !

Four years ago I parted from my wife in

anger. There were words said that day that
few women could forgive. Has she forgiven
them ? That is what I am trying to find
out. Will the husband who has been dead
to her all these years be welcome to her
living T His voice dropped into low vehemence,
and a pallor came over his face as he
spoke.

Phillis laid her hand on his own. She
looked strangely eager.

This is why you want my help. Ah ! I
see now ! Oh, it is all right !  all that you
can wish ! It is she who is tormenting herself
 who has no rest day or night ! When
the thunder came that evening  you remember
 we sat beside the children's empty beds,
and she told me some of her thoughts. When
the lightning flashed, her nerves gave way,
and she cried out in her pain, *' Did he forgive
?" That was her one thought. Her
husband  who was up in heaven with the
children  did he think mercifully of her, and
know how she loved him ? It was your
name that was on her lips when that good
woman. Miss Me wist one, hushed her in her
arms like a child. Oh, be comforted !' faltered

Phillis, ' for she loves you, and mourns for
you as though she were the most desolate
creature living !' But here she paused, for
something that sounded like a sob came to
her ear, and looking round, she saw the
bowed figure of her companion shaking with
uncontrollable emotion  those hard tearless
sobs that are only wrung from a man's strong
agony.

Oh, hush !' cried the girl tenderly. 'Be
comforted  there is no room for . doubt.
There, I will leave you  you will be better
by-and-by;' and then instinctively she turned
avvay her face from a grief too sacred for a
stranger to touch, and walked down to the
water, where the children had ceased playing,
and listened to the baby-waves that lapped
about her feet.

And by-and-by he joined her; and on his
pale face there was a rapt, serious look, as of
one who has despaired and has just listened
to an angel's tidings.

Did I not say that you, and only you,
could help me ? This is what I have wanted
to know  had Magdalene forgiven me ? Now
I need wait no longer. My wife and home

are mine, and I must take possession of my
treasures.'

He stopped, as though overcome by the
prospect of such happiness ; but Philip
timidly interposed,

But, Mr. Cheyne, think a moment. How
is it to be managed ? If you are in too great
a hurry, will not the shock be too much for
her? She is nervous  excitable. It would
hardly be safe.'

That is what troubles me,' he returned
anxiously, * It is too much for any woman
to bear ; and ]magdalene  she was always
excitable. Tell me  you have such good
sense ; and though you are so young, one can.
always rely on a woman. You understand
her so well  I see you do  and she is fond of
you. How shall we act that my poor darling,
who has undergone so much, may not be
harmed by me any more ?'

Wait one moment,' returned Philip
earnestly. ' I must consider ;' and she set
herself to revolve all manner of possibilities,
and then rejected them one by one. ' There
seems no other way,' she observed at last,
fixing her serious glance on Mr. Cheyne. ' I

must seek for an opportunity to speak to Miss
Mewlstone. It must be broken carefully to
your poor wife ; I am sure of that. Miss
Mewlstone will help us. She will tell us
what to do, and how to do it. Oh, she is
so kind  so thoughtful and tender, just as
though Mrs. Cheyne were a poor wayward
child, who must be guided and helped and
shielded. I like her so much : we must go to
her for counsel.'

You must indeed, and at once !' he returned
rather peremptorily ; and Phillis had a
notion now what manner of man he had been
before misfortunes had tamed and subdued
him. His eyes flashed with eagerness  he
grew young, alert, full of life in a moment.
Forgive me if I am too impetuous ; but I
have waited so long, and now my patience
seems exhausted all at once during the last
hour. I have been at fever-point ever since
you have proved to me that my wife  my
Magdalene  has been true to me. Fool that I
was  why have I doubted so long ? Miss
Challoner, you will not desert me  you will
be my good angel a little longer ? You will
go to Miss Mewlstone  now  this very

moment, and ask her to prepare ni}
wife ?'

It is time for me to be going home 
mother and Nan will think I am lost,' returned
Phillis, in a quiet matter-of-fact tone.
Come, Mr. Cheyne, we can talk as we go
along ] for he was so wan and agitated that
she felt uneasy for his sake.

She took his arm gently, and guided him
as though he were a child ; and he obeyed
her like one.

Promise me that you will speak to her at
once,' he said, as he walked beside her rather
feebly ; and his gait became all at once like
that of an old man. But Phillis fenced this
remark very discreetly.

This afternoon or this evening, when I
get the chance,' she said very decidedly : Mf I
am to help you, it must be as I think best,
and at my own time. Do not think me unkind,
for I am doing this for your own good ;
it would not help you if your wife were to be
brought to the brink of a nervous illness.
Leave it to me. Miss Mewlstone will serve us

best, and she will know ' and then she

took her hand from his arm, and bade him

VOL. III. 43

drop behind a little that she might not be
seen in the town walking with him. ' Goodbye
! keep up your courage. I will help you
all I can she said, with a kindly smile, ashe
reluctantly obeyed her behest. She was
his good angel, but he must not walk any
longer in her shadow ; angels do their good
deeds invisibly, as Phillis hoped to do hers.
He thought of this as he watched her disappearing
in the distance.

Phillis walked rapidly towards the cottage ;
Archie, who was letting himself in at his own
door, saw the girl pass, carrying her head
high, and stepping lightly as though she were
treading on air. ' Here comes Atalanta,' he
said to himself; but though a smile came
over his tired face, he made no effort to arrest
her. The less he saw of any of them the
better, he thought, just now.

Nan looked up reproachfully as the truant
entered the work-room, and Mrs. Challoner
wore her gravest expression ; evidently she
had prepared a lecture for the occasion.
Phillis looked at them both with sparkling
eyes.

Listen to me, Nan and mother. Oh, I

am glad Dulce is not here, she is so young

and giddy ; and she might talk No,

not a word from either of you, until I have
had my turn ;' and then she began her story.

Nan listened with rapt speechless attention,
but Mrs. Challoner gave vent to little pitying
moans and exclamations of dismay.

Oh, my child !' she kept saying, ' to think
of your being mixed up in such an adventure !
how could you be so imprudent and daring ?
Mrs. Williams's lodger  a strange man ! in
that outlandish cloak, too ! and you walked
home with him that dark night ! Oh, Phillis, I
shall never be at peace about you again !' and
so on.

Phillis bore all this patiently, for she knew
she had been incautious ; and when her
mother's excitement had calmed down a little,
she unfolded to them her plan.

I must see Miss Mewlstone quite alone ;
and that unfinished French merino will be
such a good excuse, Nan. I will take the
body with me this afternoon, and beg her tolet
me try it on ; the rest must come afterwards,
but this will be the best way of getting
her to myself;' and as Nan approved of this

432

scheme, and Mrs. Challoner did not dissent,
Phillips had very soon made up her parcel,
and was walking rapidly towards the White
House.

As she turned in at the gates she could see
a shadow on the blind, in Mrs. Williams's
little parlour, and waved her hand towards it.
He was watching her, she knew ; she longed
to. go back and give him a word of encouragement
and exhortation to patience ; but someone,
Mr. Drummond perhaps, might see her,
and she dare not venture.

She sent her message by Jeffreys, and
Miss Mewlstone soon came trotting into the
room ; but she wore a slightly disturbed expression
on her good-natured face.

She had been reading the third volume of
a very interesting novel, and had most unwillingly
laid down her book at the young
dressmaker's unseasonable request. Like
many other stout people, Miss Mewlstone
was more addicted to passivity than activity
after her luncheon ; and being a creature of
habit, this departure from her usual rules
flurried her.

Dear, dear ! to think of your wanting to

try on that French merino again!' she observed
; ' and the other dress fitted so beautifully,
and no trouble at all. And there has
Miss Middleton being calling just now, and
saying they are expecting her brother Hammond
home from India in November ; and it
is getting towards the end of September now.
I was finishing my book, but I could not help
listening to her  she has such a sweet voice.
Ah, just so  just so. But aren't you going to
open your parcel, my dear T

 Never mind the dress,' returned Phillis
quickly. ' Dear Miss Mewlstone, I was sorry
to disturb you ; but it could not be helped.
Don't look at the parcel  that is only an
excuse. My business is far more important.
I want you to put on your bonnet, and come
v\ith me just a little way across the road.
There is some one's identity that you must
prove.'

Phillis was commencing her task in a
somewhat lame fashion ; but Miss Mewlstone
was still too much engrossed with her novel
to notice her visitor's singular agitation.

Ah, just so  just so,' she responded:
that is exactly what the last few chapters

have been about. The real heh' has tiirnecl
up, and is trying to prove his own identity ;
only he is so changed that no one believes
him. It is capitally worked out. A very
clever author, my dear '

But Phillis interrupted her a little eagerly.

Is that your tale, dear Miss Mewlstone ?
How often people say truth is stranger than
fiction ! Do you know, I have heard a story
in real life far more wonderful than that.
Some one was telling me about it just now.
There was a man whom everyone, even his
own wife, believed to be dead ; but after four
years of incredible dangers and hardships 
oh, such hardships !  he arrived safely in
England, and took up his abode just within
sight of his old house, where he could see his
wife and find out all about her without being
seen himself. He put on some sort of disguise,
I think, so that people could not find
him out.'

That must be a make-up story, I should
think,' returned Miss Mewlstone, a little provokingly
; but her head was still full of her
book. Poor woman ! she wanted to get back
to it. She looked at Phillis and the parcel

a little plaintively. * Ah, just so  a very
pretty story; but improbable  very improbable,
my dear.*

'Nevertheless it is true!' returned Phillis,
so vehemently that Miss Mewlstone 's little
blue eyes opened more widely. ' Never mind
your book. I tell you I have business so
important that nothing is of consequence
beside it. Where is Mrs. Cheyne ? She
must not know we are going out.'

Going out ! ' repeated Miss Mewlstone
helplessly. * My dear, I never go out after
luncheon, as Magdalene knows.'

But you are going out with me,' replied
Phillis promptly. * Dear Miss Mewlstone, I
know I am perplexing and worrying you ; but
what can I do ? Think over what I have
just said  about  about that improbable
story, as you called it ; and then you will not
be so dreadfully startled. You must come
with me now to Mrs. "Williams's cottage  I
want you to see her lodger.'

Her lodger !' Miss Mewlstone was fully
roused now ; and, indeed, Phillis's pale face
and suppressed eager tones were not without
their due effect. Had the girl taken leave of her

senses ? Why, the ladies at the White Houseled
the lives of recluses. Why should she be
asked to call upon any stranger, but especially
a gentleman  Mrs. Williams's lodger ? * My
dear she faltered, * you are very strange this
afternoon. Magdalene and I seldom call on
anyone, and certainly not on gentlemen.'

'You must come with me,' replied Phillis,
half crying with excitement. She found her
task so difficult. Miss Me wist one was as
yielding as a feather-bed in appearance, and
yet it was impossible to move her. * He
calls himself Mr. Dancy ; but now he says
that is not all his name  let me whisper
it in your ear, if it will not startle you too
much. Think of Mrs. Cheyne, and try and
command yourself. Mrs. Williams's lodger
says that he is Herbert Cheyne  poor Mrs.
Cheyne 's husband !'

Baby, DON T YOU RECOLLECT ME /

DO not believe it  stuff and nonsense
! You are crazy, child, to
come to me with this trumped
story ! The man is an impostor. I will
have the police to him. For heaven's sake,
don't let Magdalene hear this nonsense !'

Phillis recoiled a few steps, speechless with
amazement. Miss Mewlstone's face was
crimson ; her small eyes were sparkling with
angry excitement  all her softness and gentle
inanity had vanished.

Give me a bonnet  shawl  anything ;
and I will put this matter straight in a
moment. Where is Jeffreys ? Being the
bell, please, Miss Challoner ; I must speak to
her

Phillips obeyed without a word.

Ah, just so. Jeffreys,' resuming her old
purring manner as the maid appeared, * this
young lady has a friend in trouble, and wants
me to go down to the cottage with her.
Keep it from your mistress if you can, for
she hates hearing of anything sad ; say weare
busy  I shall be in to tea  anything. I
know you will be discreet, Jeffreys.'

Yes, ma'am,' returned Jeffreys, adjusting
the shawl over Miss Mewlstone's shoulders;
but this is your garden-shawl, surely ?'

Oh, it does not matter ; it will do very
well. Now, Miss Challoner, I am ready ;'
and so noiseless and rapid were her movements,
that Phillis had much to do to keep
up with her.

Won't you listen to me T she pleaded.
Dear Miss Mewlstone, it is no made-up
story  it is all true ;' but, to her astonishment,
Miss Mewlstone faced round upon her
in a most indignant manner.

Be silent, child ! I cannot, and will not,
hear any more. How should you know anything
about it ? Have you ever seen Herbert
Cheyne ? You are the tool of some impostor.

But I will guard Magdalene ; she shall not
be driven mad. No  no, poor dear ! she
shall not, as long as she has old Bathsheba to
watch over her;' and Phillis, in despair, very
wisely held her peace. After all, she was a
stranger ; had she any proof but Mr. Dancy's
word ?

Just towards the last, Miss Mewlstone's
pace slackened ; and her hand shook so, as
she tried to snatch the little gate, that Phillis
was obliged to come to her assistance. The
cottage-door stood open as usual, but there
was no tall figure lurking in the background
no shadow on the blind.

We had better go in there,' whispered
Phillis, pointing to the closed door of the
parlour ; and Miss Mewlstone, without knocking,
at once turned the handle and went in,
while Phillis followed trembling.

'Well, sir,' observed Miss Mewlstone
sternly, ' I have come to know what you
mean by imposing your story on this
child

Mr. Dancy, who was standing with his
back to them, leaning for support against the
little mantelshelf, did not answer for a

moment ; and then lie turned slowly round,
and looked at her.

Oh, Barby !' he said ; ' don't you recollect
me T and then he held out his thin hands to
her imploringly, and added : ' Dear old
Barby ! but you are not a bit changed.'

Herbert  why, good heavens ! Ah, just
so  just so,' gasped the poor lady rather
feebly, as she sat down, feeling her limbs
were deserting her ; and every scrap of colour
left her face. Indeed, she looked so flabby
and lifeless that Phillis was alarmed, and
flew to her assistance ; only Mr. Cheyne waved
her aside rather impatiently.

Let her be ; she is all right. She knows
me, you see ; so I cannot be so much altered.
Barby,' he went on in a coaxing voice, as he
knelt beside her and chafed her hands, ' you
thought I was an impostor, and were coming
to threaten me  were you not ? But now,
you see, Miss Challoner was in the right.
Have you not got a word for me ? Won't
you talk to me about Magdalene ? "We have
got to prepare her, you know.'

Then, as he spoke his wife's name, and
she remembered her sacred charge, the faithful

creature suddenly fell on his neck in
piteous weeping.

Oh, the bonnie face she wept, * that has
grown so old, with the sorrow and the gray
hair ! My dear, this will just kill her with
joy, after all her years of bitter widowhood
And then she cried again, and stroked his face
as though he were a child ; and then wrung
her hands for pity at the changes she saw.
It is the same face, and yet not the same,'
she said by-and-by. ' I knew the look of
your eyes, my bonny man, for all they were
so piercing with sadness. But what have
they done to you, Herbert ?  for it might be
your own ghost  so thin ; and yet you are
brown, too ; and your hair !' and she touched
the gray locks over the temples with tender
fluttering Angers.

Magdalene never liked gray hairs,' he
responded, with a sigh. ' She is as beautiful
as ever, I hear ; but I have not caught a
glimpse of her. Tell me, Barby  for I have
grown timorous with sorrow  will she hate
the sight of such a miserable scarecrow ?'

My dear ! hate the sight of her own
husband, who is given back to her from the

dead ! Aye, I have much to hear. Why
did you never write to us, Herbert ? But
there  you have all that to explain to her 


Yes ; and you must tell me about the
children  my little Janie,' he returned, in a
choked voice.

Ah, the dear angels ! But, Herbert, you
must be careful. Nobody speaks of them to
Magdalene, unless she does herself. You
are impetuous, my dear; and Magdalene 
well, she has not been herself since you left
her. It is pining, grief, and the dead weight
of loss that has ailed her, being childless and
widowed at once. There, there ! just so.
"We must be tender of her, poor dear ! and
things will soon come right.'

You need not fear me, Barby. I have
learned my lesson at last ! If I only get
my wife back, you shall see  you shall see
how I will make up to her for all I have ever
made her suffer ! My poor girl ! my poor
girl !' and then he shaded his face, and was
silent.

Phillis had stolen out in the garden, and
sat down on a little bench outside, where

passers-by could not discern her from the
road, and where only the sound of their voices
reached her faintly. Now and then chance
words fell on her ear  ' Magdalene ' over andover
again ; and ' Janie' and ' Bertie,' always
in the voice she had so admired. By-and-by
she heard her own name, and rose at once,
and found them looking for her.

Here is my good angel, Barby,' observed
Mr. Cheyne, as she came up smiling. ' Not
one girl in a thousand would have acted as
bravely and simply as she has done. We are
friends for life, Miss Challoner, are we not ?'
and he stretched out his hand to her, and
Phillis laid her own in it.

I was a bit harsh with you, dearie, was I
not T returned Miss Mewlstone apologetically :
but there  you were such a child, that I
thought you had been deceived. But I ought
to have known better, craving your pardon,
my dear. Now we will just go back to
Magdalene; and you must help my stupid
old head, for I am fairly crazy at the thought
of telling her. Go back into the parlour and
lie down, Herbert, for you are terribly exhausted.
You must have patience, my mana

wee bit longer, for we must be cautious 
cautious, you see

 Yes, I must have patience,' lie responded
rather bitterly. But he went back into the
room, and watched them until they disappeared
into the gates of his own rightful
paradise.

Miss Me wist one was leaning on Phillis's
arm. Her gait was still rather feeble, but
the girl was talking energetically to her.

What a spirit she has ! just like Magdalene's
at her age,' he thought ;  only
Magdalene never possessed her even temper.
My poor girl ! From what Barby says, she
has grown hard and bitter with trouble. But
it shall be my aim in life to comfort her for
all she has been through !' and then, as he
thought of his dead children, and of the
empty nursery, he groaned, and threw himself
face downward upon the couch. But a
few minutes afterwards he had started up
again, unable to rest, and began to pace the
room ; and then, as though the narrow space
confined him, he continued his restless walk
into the garden, and then into the shrubberies
of the White House.

My dear, I am not as young as I was.
I feel as if all this were too much for me,'
sighed Miss Mewlstone, as she pressed her
companion's arm. ' One needs so much
vitality to bear such scenes. I am terrified
for Magdalene, she has so little self-control !
and to have him given back to her from the
dead ! I thank God ! but I am afraid, for all
that;' and a few more quiet tears stole over
her cheeks.

Thinking of it only makes it worse,' returned
Phillis feverishly. She, too, dreaded
the ordeal before them ; but she was young,
and not easily daunted. All the way through
the shrubberies she talked on breathlessly,
trying to rally her own courage. It was she
who entered the drawing-room first, for poor
Miss Mewlstone had to efface the signs of her
agitation.

Mrs. Cheyne looked up, surprised to see
her alone.

Jeffreys told me you and Miss Mewlstone
had gone out together on a little business.
What have you done with poor old Barby ?'
and as Phillis answered as composedly
and demurely as she could, Mrs. Cheyne

VOL. III. 44

arched her eyebrows in her old satirical
way.

She is in her room, is she ? Never mind
answering if you prefer your own counsel.
Your little mysteries are no business of mine.
I should have thought the world would have
come to an end, though, before Barby had
thrown down the third volume of a novel for
anything short of a fire. But you and she
know best ',' and as Phillis flushed and looked
confused under her scrutiny, she gave a short
laugh and turned away.

It was a relief when Miss Mewlstone came
trotting into the room with her cap-strings
awry.

Dear, dear ! have we kept you waiting
for your tea, Magdalene ?' she exclaimed in a
flurried tone, as she bustled up to the table.
Miss Challoner had a little business, and she
thought I might help her. Yes ; just so ! I
have brought her in, for she is tired, poor
thing ! and I knew she would be welcome.'

It seems to me that you are both tired.
You are as hot as though you had walked for
miles, Barby. Oh, you have your secrets
too ! But it is not for me to meddle with

mysteries ;' and then she laughed again, and
threw herself back on her couch, with a full
understanding of the discomfort of the two
people before her.

Phillis saw directly she was in a hard,
cynical mood.

You shall know our business by-and-by,'
she said, very quietly. ' Dear Miss Millstone,
I am so thirsty, I must ask you for
another cup of tea.' But as Mrs. Mewlstone
took the cup from her, the poor lady's hand
shook so with suppressed agitation, that the
saucer slipped from her grasp, and the next
moment the costly china lay in fragments at
her feet.

'Dear, dear  how dreadfully careless of
me !' fumed Miss Mewlstone.

But Mrs. Cheyne made no observation.
She only rang the bell, and ordered another
cup. But when the servant had withdrawn,
she said coldly :

Your hand is not as steady as usual this
evening, Barby;' and somehow the sharp
incisive tone cut so keenly, that, to Phillis's
alarm. Miss Mewlstone became very pale, and
then suddenly burst into tears.

442

This is too much !' observed Mrs. Cheyne,
rising in serious displeasure. She had almost
a masculine abhorrence to tears of late years ;
the very sight of them excited her strangely.

Miss Challoner may keep her mysteries to
herself if she likes, but I insist on knowing
what has upset you like this.'

'Oh dear! oh dear!' sobbed the simple
woman, wringing her hands helplessly. * This
is just too much for me ! Poor soul, how
am I to tell her ?' and then she looked at
Philos in affright at her own words, which
revealed so much and so little.

Mrs. Cheyne turned exceedingly pale, and
a shadow passed over her face.

' Poor soul !" does she mean me ? Is it of
me you are speaking, Barby ? Is there something
for me to know, that you dread to tell
me ? Poor soul indeed !' and then her
features contracted and grew pinched. ' But
you need not be afraid. Is it not the Psalmist
who says, *' All thy waves and thy billows
have gone over me ?" Drowned people have
nothing to fear ; there is no fresh trouble for
them ;' and her eyes took an awful stony
look that terrified Phillis.

Oh, it is no fresh trouble !' stammered the
girl. ' People are not tormented like that; they
have not to suffer more than they can bear.'

But Mrs. Cheyne tinned upon her fiercely :

You are wrong  altogether wrong. I
could not bear it, and it drove me mad  at
least as nearly mad as a sane woman could
be. I felt my reason shaken  my brain
was all aflame, and I cried out to Heaven
for mercy ; and a blank answered me. Barby,
if there be fresh trouble, tell me instantly, and
at once. "What do I care ? What is left to me,
but a body that will not die, and a brain that
will not cease to think ? If I could only stop
the thoughts ; if I could only go down into
silence and nothingness ; but then I should
not find Herbert and the children. Where
are they ? I forget !' She stopped, pressed
her hands to her brow with a strange bewildered
expression ; but Miss Mewlstone crept
up to her, and touched her timidly.

'My bonnie Magdalene!' she exclaimed;
don't let the ill thoughts come ; drive them
away, my poor dear. Look at me. Did old
Barby ever deceive you ? There is no fresh
trouble, my pretty. In his own good time
the All-merciful has had mercy !'

Mrs. Cheyne's hand dropped down to her
side, but her brilliant eyes showed no comprehension
of her words.

Why did you frighten me like that ?' she
repeated, rocking herself to and fro ; and her
voice had a high, strained tone in it. ' There
is no trouble, but your face is pale, and there
are tears in your ees ; and look how your
hand shakes ! Miss Challoner  Phillis, what
does she mean ? Barby, you are a foolish
old woman ; your wits are gone.'

If they are gone, it is with joy !' she
sobbed. ' Yes, my precious one ! for sheer
joy !' but then she broke down utterly. It
was Phillis dio came to the rescue.

Dear Mrs. Cheyne, I think I could tell
you best,' she began, in her sweet sensible
voice, which somehow stilled Mrs. Cheyne's
frightful agitation. ' There has been some
news  a letter that has been lost, which
ought to have arrived months ago. We have
heard about it this afternoon.' She stopped,
for there seemed to be a faint sound of footsteps
in the hall below. Could he have
followed them ? What would be the result
of such imprudence ? But, as she faltered

DO

and hesitated, Mrs. Cheyne gripped her arm
with an iron force.

A letter from Herbert ! Did he write tome
? oh, my daring ! did he write to me
before he died ? Only one word  one word of
forgiveness, and I will say Heaven indeed is
merciful ! Give it to me, Barby ! Why do you
keep me waiting ? Oh, this is blessed, blessed
news !' But Miss Mewlstone only clasped her
gently in her arms.

One moment, my dearie ! There is more
than that. It is not a message from Heaven.
There is still one living on earth that loves
you ! Try and follow my meaning,' for the
perplexed stare had returned again. ' Say to
yourself, perhaps, after all, Herbert is
not dead. Nobody saw him die. He maybe

alive  he may have written to me " '

She stopped, for Mrs. Cheyne had suddenly
flung up her arms over her head with a hoarse
cry, that rang through the house :

'Herbert! Herbert! Herbert!'

I am here  Magdalene ! Magdalene ! ' A
tall figure that had crept unperceived through
the open hall door, and had lurked unseen in
the shadow of the portiere, suddenly dashed

into the room, and took his wife's rigid form
into his arms. ' Magdalene !  love  wife I
It is Herbert,! Look up, my darling! I
am here ! I am holding you !' But there
was no response. Magdalene's face was like
the face of the dead.

They took her from him almost by force 
for he refused to give her up. Over andover
again they prayed him to leave her to
their care, but he seemed like a deaf man that
did not hear.

She is dead ! I have killed her  but
there is no reason why I should give her
up,' he had said, with terrible calm in his
voice.

'She is not dead!' returned Miss Meal -
stone almost angrily. ' She has been like this
before ; but Jeffreys and I know what to do.
Aye ! you were always wilful, Herbert ; but

when it comes to killing your own wife '

and after this he consented to lay her down
on her couch.

He watched them with wistful eyes as they
tried the usual remedies ; but it was long
before even the flicker of an eyelid spoke to
them of life. At the first sign of returning

animation Herbert crept just behind his wife's
pillow, where he could see the first unclosing
of the drooping lids. When Magdalene opened
her eyes at last, they fell full on her husband's
face.

Phillis, who was beside her, marvelled at
the strange beauty of that rapt look, as she
lay and gazed at him.

Herbert's face !' they heard her whisper,
in an awestruck voice. ' Then I have died
at last, and am in heaven. Oh, how merciful
! but I have not deserved it  a sinner
such as I.'

Magdalene, my darling, you are in our
own home ! It is I who was lost, and have
come back to you. Look at me. It is only
the children that are in heaven. You and I
are spared to each other on earth.' But for a
long time her scattered faculties failed to grasp
the truth.

Phillis went home at last, and left them.
There was nothing she could do, and she was
utterly spent; but Miss Mewlstone kept
watch beside her charge until late into the
night.

Little by little the truth dawned slowly on

the numbed brain  slowly and by degrees the
meaning of her husband's tears and kisses
sank into the clouded mind. Now and again
she wandered, but Herbert's voice always recalled
her.

Then I am not dead ?' she asked him
again and again. ' They do not cry in
heaven, and Barby was crying just now.
Barby, am I dreaming ? Who is this beside
me  is it Herbert's ghost ? only his hands
are warm, and mine are so terribly cold.
Why, you are crying too, love ; but I am too
tired to understand;' and then she crept
wearily closer and closer into his arms, like a
tired-out child who has reached home.

And when Herbert stooped over her gently,
he saw the long lashes lay on her cheek.
Magdalene had fallen asleep.

sites IX THE SUNSHINE.

' HAT sleep was, humanly speaking,
Magdalene's salvation !

At the greatest crisis of her
life, when reason hung in the balance  when
the sudden influx of joy might have paralyzed
the overwrought heart and brain  at that
moment physical exhaustion saved her by
that merciful, overpowering sleep.

When she woke, it was to the resurrection
of her life and love. Months afterwards she
spoke of that waking to Phillis, when she lay
in her bed weak as a new-born babe, and the
early morning light streamed full on the face
of her slumbering husband.

They were alone ; for Miss Mewlstone had

just crept softly from the room. Her movement
had roused Magdalene. Herbert, who
was utterly worn out by his long watching,
had just dropped asleep, with his head resting
against the woodwork. He was still sitting
in the armchair beside her, and only the thin
profile was visible.

The previous night had been passed by
Magdalene in a semi-conscious state  delirious
imaginations had blended with realities.
There were flashes and intervals of comparative
consciousness, when the truth rushed into her
mind ; but she had been too weak to retain it
long. That she was dreaming or dead Vvas
her fixed idea  that this was her husband's
greeting to her in paradise seemed to be her
one thought. ' Strange that the children do
not kiss me too,' they heard her say once.

But now, as she opened her eyes, there
was no blue misty haze through which she
ever feebly sought to pierce. She was lying
in her own room, where she had passed so
many despairing days and nights. The
window was open ; the sweet crisp morning
air fanned her temples ; the birds were singing
in the garden below; and there beside

her was the face so Hke, yet so nnhke, the
face from which she had parted four 3-ears
ago.

For a little while she lay and watched it
in a sort of trance ; and then in the stillness
full realization came to her, and she knew
that she Vv'as not mad nor dreaming. This
was no imagination  it was reality.

With incredible effort, for she felt strangely
weak, she raised herself on her elbow to study
that dear face more closely, for the change in
it baffled her. Could this be her Herbert ?
How bronzed and thin he had grown ! Those
lines that furrowed his forehead  those
hollows in the temples and under the eyes
were new to her. And oh, the pity of those
gray hairs in the place of the brown gravy
locks she remembered ! But it was when
she laid her lips against the scarred wrist that
Herbert woke, and met the full look of recognition
in his wife's eyes, for which he had
waited so long.

Now he could fall upon his knees beside
her, and crave that forgiveness for words and
acts that had seared his conscience all these
years like red-hot iron. But at the first word

she stopped him, and drew his head to her
breast.

Oh, Herbert, hush ! What, ask forgiveness
of me, when I have sinned against you
doubly  trebly  when I was no true wife, as
you know ? Oh, do not let us ask it of each
other  but of God, whom we have so deeply
offended ! He has punished us ; but He has
been merciful too. He has taken our children
because we did not deserve them. Oh, Herbert
! what will you do without them  for
you loved Janie so ?' And then for a little
while the childless parents could only hold
each other's hands and weep, for to Herbert
Cheyne the grief was new ; and at the sight
of her husband's sorrow Magdalene's old
wounds seemed to open and bleed afresh ;
only now  now she did not weep alone.

When Miss Mewlstone entered the room,
shortly afterwards, she found Magdalene lying
spent and weary, holding her husband's hand.

Joy had indeed returned to the White
House, but for a long time it was joy that
was strangely tempered with sorrow. Upstairs
no sound greeted Herbert from the
empty nurseries ; there were no little feet

pattering to meet the returned wanderer, no
little voices to cry a joyous ' Father !' and for
years the desolate mother had home this
sorrow alone.

As the days passed on, Magdalene regained
her strength slowly, hut neither wife nor
husband could hide from each other the fact
that their health was broken by all they had
gone through. Herbert's constitution was
sadly impaired for the remainder of his life ;
he knew well that he must carry with him the
consequences of those years of suffering.
Often he had to endure intense neuralgic
agony in his limbs and head ; an unhealed
wound for a long time troubled him sorely.
Magdalene strove hard to regain strength that
she might devote herself to nurse him, but
though her constitution was superb, she had
much to bear from her disordered nerves.
At times the old irritability was hard to
vanquish  there were still dark moods of restlessness
when her companionship was trying ;
but it was now that Herbert proved the nobleness
and reality of his repentance.

For he was ever gentle with her, however
much she might try him. Some talk he had

had with her doctor had convinced him that
she was not to blame for these morbid moods,
that the nerves had become disorganized by
those years of solitary misery. ' We must
bear all our troubles together,' as he often
told her ; and so he bore this, as he did the
trial of his children's loss, with grave fortitude,
and a patience that surprised all who knew
him.

And he was not without his reward, for, the
dark fit over, Magdalene's smile would greet
him like sunshine after a storm, and she would
thank him with tears and caresses for his forbearance.


I can't think what makes me still so
horrid, when I am so happy,' she said once
to him, when the first year of their reunion
had passed. * I do my best to fight against
these moods, but they seem stronger than myself
and overcome me. Do not be so good tome
next time, Herbert ; scold me and be
angry with me, as you used in the old days.'

I cannot,' he answered, smiling. ' I never
loved you in the old dajs as I do now. I
would not change my wife, in spite of all the
trouble she gives me, for any other woman

upon earth. You believe this, love, do you
not ?' looking at her beautiful face anxiously,
for it had clouded a little at his last words.

Yes, but I do not like to trouble you ; it is
that that frets me. I wanted to be a comfort
to you, and never to give you a moment's uneasiness
; but I cannot help myself, somehow.
I love you, I don't believe you know yet how
I love you, Herbert ; but it seems as if I must
grieve you sometimes,'

Never mind ; I will bear your trouble and
my own too !' he answered cheerily; and in
this way he always comforted her. But to
Magdalene, her own self ever remained a
mystery ; the forces of her own nature were
too strong for her, and yet she was not a
weak woman. She had expected that in her
case love and happiness would have worked
a miracle, as though miracles were ever
effected by mere human agencies ; that she
would rise like a Phoenix from the ashes of
her past, reborn, rejuvenated with an inexhaustible
fund of moral strength.

Now she had Herbert, all would go smoothly;
she would no longer mourn for her little ones.
Since her husband was there to comfort her,

VOL. III. 45

with Ms constant presence to sustain her, all
must be well ; never again would she be
nervous, irritable, or sarcastic. Poor Magdalene
! she was creating heaven for herself
upon earth ; she was borrowing angel's plumes
before the time ; she had forgotten the conditions
of humanity, ' the body of the flesh,'
which weighed down greater souls than hers.

There are Gethsemane of the spirit to the
weary ones of earth, hours of conflict that
must be lived through and endured. Nature
that groaned and travaileth cannot find its
abiding-place of rest here. To the end of
time it seems to be written up in enduring
characters that no human lot shall be free
from suffering  sooner or later, more or less 
that is all ! Magdalene had still to learn this
lesson painfully; that she was slow in learning
it, proved the strength and obduracy of her
will. True, she was rarely sarcastic  never
in her husband's presence, for a word or a
look from him checked her, and she grew
humble and meek at once. It was her unruly
nerves that baffled her ; she was shocked to find
irritable words still rose to her lips ; that the
spirit of restlessness was not quelled for ever ;

that thunder still affrighted her ; and that now
and then her mind seemed clouded with fancied
gloom.

She once spoke of this to Miss Middleton,
with tears in her eyes.

It is so strange she said ;  Herbert is
different, but I am still so unchanged.'

The conditions of your health are unchanged,
you mean,' answered Elizabeth, with
that quiet sympathy that always rested people.
This is the mistake that folk make ; they do
not distinguish between an unhealthy mind
and a diseased soul  the one is due to
physical disorganization, the other to moral
causes. In your case, dear Mrs. Cheyne,
one may safely lay the blame on the first
cause.'

Oh, do you think so ?' she asked earnestly.
 I dare not cheat my conscience in that way ;
it is my bad temper, my undisciplined nature,
that ought to bear the blame.'

No ; believe me,' answered Elizabeth, for
they had grown great friends of late, ' I have
watched you narrowly, and I know how you
try to conquer this irritability; there is no
black spot of anger in your heart, whatever

452

words come to your lips. You are like a
fretful child sometimes, I grant you that, who
is ailing and unconscious of its ailment. When
you would be calm, you are strangely disturbed
; you speak sharply, hoping to relieve
something that oppresses you.'

Oh yes !' sighed Magdalen ; ' and yet
Herbert never speaks crossly to me.'

He never will, for he knows what you
suffer. Well, dear friend, what of this ?
This is a cross that you must carry perhaps
all your life. You are not the only one who
has to bear the torment of disordered nerves ;
it must be borne with resignation, as we bear
other troubles. Once you felt you could not
love God  you ceased to pray to Him ; now
you love Him a little. Go on loving ; thank
Him for your husband's patience, and pray
that you may have patience with yourself.
One is weary of always living with one's self,
I know that well,' finished Elizabeth, with a
charming smile.

Mr. Drummond would have verified Miss
Middleton's opinion that Magdalene was not so
unchanged as she believed herself to be.

At his first interview with her after Herbert

Cheyne's return, he could almost have sworn
that she was a different woman.

Phillis, who spent all her spare time at the
"White House  for they loth made much of
Herbert's ' Good Angel as he still called her
jestingly  was sitting alone with Mrs. Cheyne
when Archie was announced.

His old enemy greeted him with a frank
smile.

This is kind of you, Mr. Drummond,'
she said, quite warmly. ' How I wish my
husband were not out, that I could introduce
Mm to you ! I have told him how good you
have tried to be to me, but that I was ungrateful
and repulsed you.'

Archie was shaking hands with Phillis, who
seemed a little disturbed at his entrance. He
turned round and regarded the beautiful woman
with astonishment. Was this really Mrs.
Cheyne ? Where was the hard, proud droop
of the lip, the glance of mingled coldness and
hauteur, the polished sarcasm of voice and
manner ? Her face looked clear and open as a
child's; her eyes were brilliant with happiness.

Magdalene was in one of her brightest
moods, when she was most truly herself.

I have met him just now. He stopped
and introduced himself. We had quite a long
talk outside Mrs. Williams's cottage. I called
upon him there, you know ; but he had good
reasons for refusing my visits. Mrs. Cheyne,
you must allow me to congratulate you most
earnestly. You will own now that Providence
has been good to you.'

I will own that and everything returned
Magdalene joyously. * I will own, if you like,
that I treated you shamefully, and took a
pleasure in tormenting you ; and you were so
patient  oh, so patient, Mr. Drummond ! I
could have called you back sometimes and
apologized, but I would not. In my bitter
moments I felt it was such a relief to mock at
people.'

Never mind all that. Let bygones be
bygones. I wish I could have served you
better ;' and then, as he changed the subject,
and spoke feelingly about the miracle of her
husband's restoration, Mrs. Cheyne looked at
him rather wistfully.

Oh, how good you are !' she said softly.
Do you know, the world seems full of good
people to me now ; and yet once it appeared

too bad a place for anyone to live in. We
create our own atmosphere  at least, so
Herbert tells me. But you are looking thin,
Mr. Drummond  thin and pale. You must
be working too hard.'

Oh, as to that, hard work never hurts
anyone,' he replied carelessly ; but there was
something forced in his tone.

Phillis, who had been sitting apart quite
silently, raised her eyes involuntarily from
her work. Was it her fancy, or had some
undefinable change passed over him ? They
had seen him so little of late. Since all this
had happened at the White House he had
called once or twice ; and once Nan had been
there, and he had spoken to her much as
usual. Ko one would have detected any
difference in his manner, except that he was a
little grave and preoccupied. Nan had not
noticed anything ; but then she was singularly
blind in such matters. Had she not vaguely
hinted that his visits were on Phillis's account
?  that mere hint conveying exquisite
pain to Phillis.

Now, as she stole a glance at him, the
conviction was strong within her that the

arrow had gone deep. He certainly looked a
little thin and careworn ; and something of a
young man's vigour and hopefulness seemed
temporarily impaired. But, as it happened,
that girlish scrutiny was not unperceived by
Archie. In a moment, he was on the alert.
His eyes challenged hers boldly, and it was
Phillis who flushed and looked conscious.

It was as though he said to her : ' Ah !
you think you know all about it. But you
need not trouble yourself to be sorry for me ;
you do not know what a man's strength can
do. And I am determined to bear this by
myself, and to myself; for in silence there is
power.'

It certainly seemed as though a new
strength had come to Archie. He had been
a man who had been prone to speak much of
his feelings. Irritable and sensitive, he had
demanded much sympathy from his womankind.
His was a nature that craved support
in his work ; but now, not even to Grace
could he speak of this trouble that had befallen
him.

"Was it a trouble, after all, this vague
shadow that lay about his path ? No one

lout he himself knew the sweetness and
graciousness of the dream that had come to
him. It had only been a dream after all ;
and now he was awake. The vision he had
conjm-ed up to himself had faded into unreality.
She was not his second self  never
by look or word had he wooed her ; she was
only the woman he could have loved. This
was how he put it ; and now he would bury
this faint hope that was still-born  that had
never had breathed into it the breath of life.
And if for a little while his future should be
cloudy and bereft of its sunshine, was he the
only one to whom ' some days must be dark
and dreary ' ?

Phillis's unspoken sympathy drooped under
this stern repression ; and yet in her heart
she reverenced him all the more for this
moral strength  for there is nothing a true
woman abhors more than weakness in a man.
After this silent rebuff, Archie took himself
well in hand, and began to speak of other
things ; he told Mrs. Cheyne, being certain
now of her interest, of his sister's intended
marriage, and how he and Mattie were going
down to the weddings.

He is a very good fellow, this intended
brother-in-law of mine  a sort of rough
diamond ; but hardly good enough for Isabel
he said. ' Oh yes, he is very rich. My
poor little sister will have her head turned by
all her magnificence ; for his parents are so
generous  they quite load her with gifts.'
And he smiled to himself at the notion of the
little sister, just fresh from her narrow schoolroom
life, rejoicing over her trousseau, and her
handsome house, and driving away from the
church in her own carriage. No wonder his
father and mother were pleased ; as for the
bridegroom-elect, Archie spoke of him with
half - contemptuous amusement. * Oh, he
was a good fellow  no one wished to deny
that ;' but there was a want of culture and
polish that grated upon the susceptibilities of
the Oxford fellow;

Phillis listened with undivided interest 
especially when he mentioned Grace.

Mattie and I are in hopes that we shall
bring her back with us ; but, at all events,
my mother has promised to spare her at
Christmas.' This time he addressed himself
to Phillis.

Ob, that will be nice for you !' sbe returned,
a little eagerly. * You bave told us
so much about ber, that I quite long to know
ber.'

I should say you would suit each other
perfectly,' be replied, as be rose to take ibis
leave. ' Sometimes you remind me of ber,
Miss Cballoner ; and yet you are not really
alike. Good-bye, if I do not see you again
before we go to Leeds ;' and Pbillis gave bim
ber band, and a cordial smile.

But when be bad gone out of the room,
bis hostess accompanying bim  for sbe bad a
word for bis private ear  Pbillis sat down, and
thought over those last words with a strange
feeling of pleasure  ' Sometimes you remind
me of ber, Miss Cballoner.' Was it possible
that be could trace any resemblance between
ber and this dearly beloved sister  this
Grace, whom be seemed to regard as absolute
perfection ?

Ob, I hope sbe will come ! I am sure
we shall be such friends,' sbe said to herself ;
and from this time Pbillis looked anxiously
for Grace Drummond's arrival.

A MAN HAS A RIGHT TO HIS OWN THOUGHTS.'

Here were great rejoicing in the
house in Lower Street on the
occasion of Isabel Drummond's

There is always something pathetic in the
first wedding in a family  the first severing
of the family circle  the first break  the first
ingathering of new interest. But when there
are small means, and seven portionless
daughters, very few of whom could be said
to be gifted with good looks, a wealthy son-in-law
must indeed be regarded as a direct
blessing from Providence.

That Mr. Drummond did so regard it, was
evident from the jovial good-humour that had

replaced his usual moody and irritable manner
; while his wife's beaming face, softened
by maternal tenderness for the child who
would no longer share the daily life with
them, was a surprising spectacle to those
acquainted with Mrs. Drummond's ordinary
reserve and somewhat severe bearing. But
it is not too much to say that on this occasion
Mrs. Drummond was a happy woman.

The tide of fortune, long so adverse to
their interests, seemed turning in their favour
at last. Archie had done great things for
himself, and the mother's eyes rested on him
proudly as he performed the marriage ceremony
for his young sister, the gravity of his
priestly office setting him apart, as it were,
for her reverence as well as love. That
Isabel had done great things for herself also
could not be denied. But there were other
causes for content in the mother's heart.

Both the boys were doing well. Clyde
had been articled to a lawyer, an old friend
of Mr. Drummond's, and had won golden
opinions from his chief, who pronounced him
an intelligent, likely lad, and as sharp as a
needle. Fred had lately obtained a clerkship

in an old-established house in Leeds,
and was also doing well, and his salary was
a great boon to the straitened household.
Grace, too, was doing her duty vigorously,
and no longer vexed her mother's soul by her
drooping looks of uncomplaining discontent 
that silent protest of many, that is so irritating
to the home-rule. True, it might be
only the quiescence of despair, but at least
she veiled it decently under a show of Spartan
cheerfulness. The fox of bitterness might
gnaw, but she drew the mantle of her pride
closer round her. She might suffer and pine,
like a caged lark in her narrow cage, but at
least no one, not even Archie, and least of
all her mother, should guess the extent of
her sufferings. So there was peace in Lowder
Street. A truce had silently proclaimed
itself between the two strong wills of the
household ; and, touched by a submission that
somehow appealed to her generosity, Mrs.
Drummond was secretly revolving schemes
for her daughter's future happiness.

Mothers are mothers,' as Nan had once
sweetly said, and Mrs. Drummond was no
exception to the rule. She could be hard to

lier own flesh and blood  she could exact
obedience that was difficult to yield, and
sacrifices that cost tears in plenty ; but
she was a just woman, and when the right
time came, she knew how to reward such
obedience.

But there was still another drop that filled
the maternal cup of content almost to overflowing,
and of this she spoke to Grace, as
they where together in the mother's room,
folding up the bridal finery. The little bride
had just driven off, all tears and smiles.
archie and the boys had started ofl" for a long
walk. Mattie was with her sisters in the
small ugly enclosure they called a garden ;
and Grace and her mother had gone up to
shake out the satin dress and lay it between
tissue-paper.

'I hope she will be happy, poor little
dear !' observed Grace, touching tenderly the
Brussels lace veil ; for Isabel had been her
first pupil and charge. ' I do think and
believe Ellis is really very fond of her.'

Without doubt he is. His manners were
all your father and I could wish. What a
magnificent present, and how thoughtful, his

bringing those diamond ear-drops just the last
moment ! Isabel has such pretty little ears.
He is as proud of her as he can be. And
really, she looked quite lovely. Take care
how you fold that veil, Grace. It is a perfect
beauty.'

Yes, mother,' returned Grace meekly.

She was ready to drop with, fatigue, for she
had been up since six, and had dressed all her
sisters one after another in their pretty bridesmaids'
dresses, Mattie's skill as a lady's-maid
being distrusted even by Dottie. But
Mrs. Drummond was not satisfied, and took
the lace out of her hand.

And, Grace, did you ever see anyone so
improved as Mattie ? Her visit to Hadleigh
is doing wonders for her. Last evening I
could hardly help looking at her. She holds
herself so much better, and her dresses are
so pretty and well-made. I never knew before
that her figure was so nice.'

Yes, indeed ; she is wonderfully improved,'
returned Grace.

But she said the words mechanically. Her
mother's speech had touched a sore place in
her memory. She knew who had transformed

Mattie's dowdiness into comeliness and neatness.
She might be an ordinary little woman
in the world's opinion, but in the eyes of her
family she was quite another Mattie. Those
tasteful dresses had been made by those
Challoners of whom Mattie spoke so much,
and Archie so little.

Mrs. Drummond, who had not noticed her
daughter's sudden abstraction, went on in the
same satisfied tone.

She is not pretty, of course  no one could
ever call Mattie that at the best of times ;
but now she has left off making a fright of
herself, and munching her shoulders with
eyevy word, she is quite passable-looking.
I am glad you talked her out of being a
bridesmaid. She would have looked absurd
among the girls. But that green sarah just
suited her. It was good of Archie to buy
her such a pretty dress : and yours that came
from Hadleigh was even prettier, and wonderfully
well made, considering they had only a
pattern gown.'

Yes ; it fitted admirably ;' but Grace spoke
without enthusiasm.

Archie, who knew her tastes, had chosen a

VOL. III. 46

soft creamy stuff, vhich he informed Mattie
must be trimmed with no end of lice. Phillis
had received and executed the order with such
skill and discernment, that a most ravishing
costume had been produced. But Grace, who
had her own ideas on the subject of those
Challoner girls,' had received the gift somewhat
coldly, and had even seemed displeased
when her father pinched her ear and told her
that Archie's gown had transformed her into a
princess fit for a fairy-tale.  And there is
always a prince in that, my dear  eh,
Gracie ?' continued the lucky father, who
could afford to laugh when one of the seven
daughters had got a husband. But Grace
would have nothing to do with the jest. She
even got up a little frown, like her mother's on
similar occasions.

'Archie is so generous, dear old fellow!'
continued Mrs. Drummond, breaking out
afresh after a minute's interval, as she skilfully
manipulated the veil. ' That is what
I always say. There never was such a
son or brother. Do you think he is overworking,
Grace ; or that Mattie really looks
after him well ? But he strikes me asa

little thin  and  yes  perhaps a little
grave

Grace's lips closed with an expression of
pain. But her mother was looking at her,
and she must answer.

Well, if you ask me, mother,' she returned,
a little huskily, * I do not think archie looks
very well, or in his usual spirits ; hut I am sure
Mattie takes good care of him,' she continued,
with careful veracity.

Humph ! I am sorry to find you endorsing
my opinion,' replied Mrs. Drummond thoughtfully.
' I hoped you would say it was my
fancy ; he has not said anything to you that
makes you uneasy with a touch of her old
sharpness, remembering that Grace, and not
she, was Archie's confidante ; but Grace
replied so quickly and decidedly :

Oh no, mother, we have not exchanged
a word together since he and Mattie arrived,'
that her maternal jealousy was allayed.

But the next night, when she was alone
with him for a few minutes, she was struck
afresh by the gi-cavity of his look as he sat by
the window, pretending to read, but for the
last half-hour he had not turned his page.

462

A penny for your thoughts, my son !' she
said, so archly and abruptly, that Archie
started, and his brow grew crimson at finding
himself watched.

Oh, they were nothing particular,' he
stammered; and then he said something
about the fineness of the evening, and the
possibility of his father coming in in time fora
long walk.

But Mrs. Drummond was not to be put off
so easily ; she left her seat, where she had
been sewing as usual, and came and stood
beside him a moment. He would have
jumped up and given her his own chair, but
she pressed his shoulder gently, as though to
forbid the movement.

I like to stand, Archie. Yes, it is a
lovely evening; but I think you ought to
ask Grace, and not your father, to accompany
you. Grace was always your companion,
you know, and you must not drop old habits
too suddenly ;' then Archie saw that his
avoidance of Grace had been marked.

Very well, I will ask her,' he returned ;
but he showed none of his old alacrity and
spirit in claiming his favourite.

Mrs. Drummond noticed this ; and the
shade of anxiety on her face grew deeper.

Archie, you are not quite your old self
with Grace ; and I am sure she feels it.
What has come between you, my dear T

Why, nothing, mother;' and here he attempted
a laugh. * Grace and I never quarrel,
as you know.'

I was not speaking of quarrelling,' she
returned, in a graver voice ; * but you do not
seek her out as you used. Before, v/hen you
arrived, you always disappointed me by
shutting yourself up in the schoolroom,
where no one could get at you; and now
Grace tells me she has not had a word with
you these four days.'

Has Grace complained of me, then ?'

You know Grace never complains of you.
It was not said in any fault-finding way.
We agreed you were not quite yourself, orin
your usual spirits ; and I asked her the
reason. Tell me, my son, is there anything
troubling you ?' Archie sat silent. Mrs.
Drummond was so rarely demonstrative to
her children that even this well-beloved son
had never heard before such chords of tenderness

in his mother's voice ; and looking up,
he saw her keen gray eyes were softened
and moist with tears. ' You are not quite
yourself, Archie  not quite happy T she
went on.

Then he took counsel with himself; and
after a moment he answered her :

No, mother ; you are right. I am not 
not quite myself, nor quite happy; but I
mean to be both presently;' and then he
looked up in her face pleadingly, with an
expression of entreaty that went to her heart,
and continued : ' But my own mother will
not pain me by unnecessary questions that I
could not answer.' And then she knew that
his will was that she should be silent.

'Very well,' she returned, with a sigh.
But you will tell me one thing  will you
not, my dear ? Is it  is it quite hopeless T
her mother's instinct, like that of the Eastern
Caliph, immediately suggesting a woman in
the case.

Quite  quite hopeless  as dead as this ! '
bringing down his hand on a large defunct
moth.  Talking will not bring to life, or
help a man to carry a real burthen.'

Then, as she kissed him, she knew that
his pain had been very great, but that he
meant to bear it with all the strength he could
bring.

Grace went up to prepare for her walk
that evening with no very pleasurable anticipations.
Her mother had given her i\.rchie's
message in due form, as she sat somewhat
sadly by the schoolroom window, mending a
frock Dottie had just torn.

 Archie wants you to go out with him,
Grace,' Mrs. Drummond said as she came in,
in her usual active bustling way. ' The
grass never grew under her feet,' as she was
often pleased to observe. ' Loitering and
lagging make young bones grow prematurely
old,' she would say, coining a new proverb
for the benefit of lazy Susie. * Never measure
your footsteps when you are about other
people's business,' she would say to Laura,
who hated to be hunted up from her employment
for any errand. ' He thinks of going
over to Blackthorn Farm, as it is so fine ; and
the walk will do you good,' continued Mrs.
Drummond, with a keen look at her daughter's
pale face. ' Give me Dottie 's frock  thai

little monkey is always getting into mischief
But Grace yielded her task reluctantly.

Are you sure he wishes me to go, mother?'

Quite sure,' was the brief answer ; but
she added no more.

Silence was ever golden to this busy, hardworking
mother. She was generally sparing
of words. Grace, who saw that her mother
was bent on her going, made no further
demur ; but as she put on her walking-things,
she told herself that Archie was only making
a virtue of necessity. He was so little eager
for her society that he had not sought her
himself, but had sent her a message. Ever
since his return, no light-springing footsteps
had been heard on the uncarpeted stairs leading
to the schoolroom. He had forsaken
their old haunt, where they had once talked
so happily, sitting hand-in-hand on the old
window seat.

Grace felt herself grievously wounded.
For months a barrier had been between her
and Archie. He had written seldom; and
his letters, when they came, told her nothing.
In manner he was kindness itself. That there
was no change in his affection was evident ;

but the key to his confidence was mislaid.
He had withdrawn himself into some inner
citadel, where he seemed all at once inaccessible,
and her sisterly soul was vexed within
her.

He met her at the door with his usual
smile of welcome.

That is right, Grace ; you have not kept
me long waiting he said pleasantly, as she
came towards him ; and then, as they walked
down Lowder Street, he commenced talking
at once. He had so much to tell her, he
said ; and here Grace's pulses began to throb
expectantly ; but the eager light died out of
her face when he went on to retail a long
conversation he had had with his mother the
previous night. Was that all ? she thought.
Was the longed-for confidence still to be withheld
?

Archie did not seem to notice her silence ;
he rattled on volubly.

I think wee were hard on the mother,
Gracie, you and I,' he said. * After all, I
believe she was right in not giving us our
own way in the spring.'

 I am glad you think so,' replied Grace

coldly. Archie winced at her tone, but recovered
himself, and went on gaily :

It does one good sometimes to have one's
wishes crossed ; and, after all, it was only
fair poor Mattie, being the eldest, should
have her turn. She does her best, poor little
soul ! and, though I find her terribly trying
sometimes, I can hold out pretty patiently
imtil Christmas; and then mother herself
suggested that you should take her place at
the Vicarage.'

I ! oh no, Archie !' and here the colour
flushed over Grace's face, and her eyes filled
with tears. The news was so unexpected 
so overwhelming. Another time the sweetness
of it would have filled her with rapture.
But now ! ' Oh no, no !' she cried, in so
vehement a tone that her brother turned in
surprise, and something of her meaning came
home to him.

Wait a moment,' he said deprecatingly.
I have not finished yet what I want to say.
Mother said Mattie was greatly improved by
her visit, and that she was infinitely obliged
to me for yielding to her wish. She told me
plainly that it was impossible to have spared

you before  that yon were her right-hand
with the girls, and that even now your loss
would be great.'

I do not mean to leave mother returned
Grace, in a choked voice.

Not if I want you, and ask you to come ?'
he replied, with reproachful tenderness.
Why, Grace, what has become of our old
compact ?'

You do not need me now,' she faltered,
hardly able to speak without weeping.

We will talk of that by-and-by,' was the
somewhat impatient answer. ' Just at this
minute I want to tell you all the mother said
on the subject. Facts before feelings, please,'
with a touch of sarcasm ; but he pointed it
with a smile. * You see, Grace, Isabel's
marriage makes a difference. There is one
girl off my father's hands. And then the
boys are doing so well. Mother thinks that
in another three months Clara may leave the
schoolroom ; she will be seventeen then,
and, as Ellis has promised her a course of
music lessons, to develop her one talent,
you may consider her off your hands.'

Clara will never do me credit,' returned

his sister mournfully ; * she works steadily
and takes pains, but she was never as clever
as Isabel

No ; she is no shining light, as mother
owns ; but she will play beautifully, if she be
properly trained. Well, as to the other girls,
it appears that my father has decided to accept
my offer of sending Susie to a first-class
boarding-school ; and as he has determined todo
the same for Laura, there is only Dottie
for Mattie to manage or mismanage. So you
see, Gracie, your schoolroom drudgery is
over. Mother herself, by her own will, has
opened the prison-doors.'

He spoke in a light jesting tone, but Grace
answered almost passionately :

I tell you no, Archie ! I no longer wish it
so : it is too late  things are now quite
different.'

What do you mean ?' he returned, with a
long steady look that seemed to draw out her
words in spite of her resolve not to speak
them.

I mean that things are changed  that you
no longer need me, or wish me to live with
you.'

*I need you more he returned calmly;
perhaps I have never needed you so much.
As for living with me, is it your desire to condemn
me to an existence of perfect loneliness
?  for after Christmas Mattie leaves me.
You are mysterious, Grace ; you are not your
old self.*

Oh, it is you that are not yourself ! ' she
retorted, in a tone of grief. ' Why have you
avoided me ? why do you withhold your confidence
? why do your letters tell me nothing ?
and then you come, and are still silent.'

What is it that you would have me tell
you ?' he asked ; but this time he did not look
her in the face.

I would know this thing that has come
between us, and robbed me of your confidence.
You are ill at ease  you are unhappy, Archie ! '
but he was still silent. * You have never kept
a trouble from me before ; it was always I
who shared your hopes and fears.'

You may still share them. I am not
changed, as you imagine, Grace. All that I
can tell you I will, even if you demand in
that * money-or-your-life " style, as you are
doing now,' trying to turn it off with a jest.

Oh, Archie !'

 "Well, what of Archie now ?'

That you should laugh away my words !
you have never done that before

Very well, I will be serious ; nay, more, I
will be solemn. Grace, I forbid you ever to
mention this thing again, on pain of my bitter
displeasure !'

Then, as she looked at him, too much
startled to answer, he went on :

A man has a right to his own thoughts,
if he choose to keep them to himself and his
Maker. There are some things with which
even you may not meddle, Grace. What if
my life holds a grief which I would bury
from all eyes but my own ? would you tear
up the clods with unhallowed fingers ? To no
living person but my Saviour '  and here
Archie looked up with reverent eyes  ' will I
speak of this thing.' Then she clung to his
arm, and her tears flowed over her cheeks.

Oh, Archie ! forgive me, forgive me ! I
never meant to hurt you like this ; I will not
say another word V

'You have not hurt me,' he returned,
striving after his old manner, * except in

refusing to live with me. I am lonely enough,
God knows ! and a sister who understands
me, and with whom I could have sympathy,
would be a great boon

Then I will come,' she replied, drying her
eyes. ' If you want me, I will come, Archie.'

I do want you ; and I have never told
you anything but the truth. But you must
come and be happy, my dear. I want you,
yourself, and not a grave, reticent creature
who has gone about the house the last few
days looking at me askance, as though I had
committed some deadly sin.'

Then the dimple showed itself in Grace's
cheek.

Have I really been so naughty, Archie ?'

Yes, you have been a very shadowy sort
of Grace ; but I give you full absolution, only
don't go and do it any more ;' and as she
looked at him, with her eyes full of sorrowful
yearning, he went on hastily : * Oh, I am all
right, and least said is soonest mended. I
am like the dog in iE sop's fable, who mistook
the shadow for the substance. A poor sort
of dog, that fellow. Well, is your poor little
mind at rest, Gracie ?' and the tone in which

she said ' Yes ' seemed to satisfy him, for he
turned their talk into another channel.

When Mrs. Drummond saw her daughter's
face that evening, she knew the cloud had
passed between the brother and sister.

Grace followed her to her room thafc night
a thing she had not done for months.

Mother, I must thank you for being so
good to us,' she began impulsively, as soon
as she had crossed the threshold.

How have I been good to you, Grace T
observed her mother calmly, as she unfastened
her brooch. ' Of course I have always tried
to be good to my children, although they do
not seem to think so.'

Ah, but this is very special goodness ; and
I am more grateful than I can say. Are you
sure you will be able to spare me, mother T

After Christmas  oh yes ; things will be
possible then. If I remember rightly I had
to endure some very bitter words from you on
this very subject. I hope you will do justice
to my judgment at that time.'

Yes, mother,' with downcast eyes. ' I am
afraid Archie and I were very wilful.'

You were wilful, Grace '  for Mrs. Drummond

never suffered anyone to find fault with
lier son in her hearing  ' you, who ought to
have known better. And yet I do believe
that, but for my determination to enforce the
right thing, you would have left your post,
and all your duties, because Archie wanted
you.'

I was wrong. I see that plainly.'
Yes, you were wrong ; for a long time
you bore yourself towards me as no daughter
ought to bear herself to her mother. You
angered me sorely, Grace, because I saw you
were hardening yourself against me, only
because I insisted that no child of mine
should neglect her duty.'

Mother, surely I am humbling myself
now ?'

True ; but how long have I waited for
this confession ? Night after night, I have
said to myself, '' Surely Grace will come and
tell me that she feels herself in the wrong!"
But no such words came. At last I ceased to
hope for them ; and now at this eleventh hour
you can hardly expect me to show much joy
at hearing them spoken.'

Then Grace's head drooped, and she was
VOL. III. 47

silent. She knew she deserved all these hard
words, bitter as they were to bear ; but Mrs.
Drummond had said her say.

Well, well  better late than never ; and
we will say no more about it. Next time
you will understand me better, Grace.'

Then, as her mother kissed her, Grace
knew that her sin was condoned. Nevertheless,
as she left the room a few minutes
later, her heart was not quite so light in her
bosom ; she felt her mother had been just,
but hardly generous.

I thought mothers forgave more easily,'
she said to herself, in somewhat aggrieved
fashion. She had no idea that her mother
was equally disappointed.

Mrs. Drummond was a hard but not an
unloving woman ; and she would have liked
more demonstration from her daughters. If
Grace, for example, instead of all those
words, would have thrown herself into her
arms, and owned herself in the wrong, with a
childlike pleading for forgiveness, Mrs. Drummond
would have felt herself satisfied, and
would have pressed her to her bosom with a
loving word or two that Grace would have

remembered when her mother was in her
grave. But such outward forms of tenderness
were not possible to Mrs. Drummond's
daughters  for in such matters we must reap
as we sow ; and Mrs. Drummond's manner
hardly merited softness. For there are
mothers and mothers ; and the world must
produce its Drummondss and Challoners until
the end of time.

about

NOTHING PARTICULAR.

St was as well that Grace had had
this talk with her brother ; for,
during the two days that remained
of his brief visit, they were not alone together
until the last half hour before his departure.
The young Vicar had to return for his Sunday
duties; but Mattie remained behind for another
week. Archie, indeed, had once sought her
in his old fashion  running up to the schoolroom
for a chat ; but Susie had been there
all the time. In former days, Archie would
have sent her away with blunt peremptoriness
; but now he seemed well content to
have her there. He had no secrets to discuss,
as he sat in his old place in the

window-seat ; yet Grace was too happy to see
him there to find fault with his discourse.

But on the morning of his departure she
had come down early to pour out his coffee.
He had bidden his mother good-bye in her
room ; but he knew that, in spite of the
earliness of the hour, Grace would be in her
place to minister to his wants.

Well, Grace,' he said, entering with his
travelling-plaid over his arm, ' so it is to be
good-bye until Christmas.'

Yes,' she returned, looking at him with a
sort of wistfulness ; ' but the time will pass
quickly now. It is so nice to think that we
shall begin our new year together;' and, asher
brother checked an involuntary sigh, she
went on eagerly : ' If you knew how happy I
am about it ! It will be something to wake
every morning and know you are not a
hundred miles off  that when I come down
to breakfast I shall find you there  that I
shall be able to talk to you as much as I
like ; and as for work, why it will be play
to me to work for you, Archie !'

Of course I know that,' rather mischievously.


I would work for you like a servant 
would I not, dear ? I mean to be ever so
good to you. Your friends shall be my
friends ; your likes and dislikes shall be mine
too

Why Gracie,' he said, humouring her,
this is more than a wife would do for me !'

Ah ! but it is not too much to ask from a
sister,' she returned earnestly. ' When you
bring home sour wife, Archie, I mean to be
good to her too. I shall have to leave you
then, and come back here ; but if you are
happy, I shall not be miserable.' But he
interrupted her a little impatiently.

What put such nonsense into your head ?
I shall never marry. We shall be a pattern
of old bachelor brother and maiden sister;'
and then he pushed away his plate, and went
to the window. ' Is it not Mrs. Carlyle who
quotes that quaint old story about some one
who always thanked God 'for the blessings
that passed over his or her head " ? Is not
that a curious idea, when one comes to think
it out ? Fancy thanking heaven really and
seriously for all our disappointed hopes and
plans  for 'the blessings that go over our

heads " ! It would be a new clause in our
petitions  eh, Gracie ?'

Why, yes,' she replied, as she came and
stood near him. ' I am afraid I could never
say that from my heart.'

It is not easy,' he returned quietly ; ' but
I do not know that we ought to give up trying,
for all that ;' and then his manner
changed, and he put his arm round her in his
old fashion. ' Recollect, I want you very
much, Grace ; your coming will make me far
happier. Mattie only touches the outside of
things ; I want some one near me who can
go deeper than that  who will help me with
real work, and put up with my bad humours :
for I am a man who is very liable to discouragement
;' and, when he had said this,
he bade her good-bye.

It was a comfort to Archie to find himself
hard at work again. The few days of idleness
had been irksome to him. Now he could
throw himself without stint or limit into his
pastoral labours, walking miles of country
road until he was weary, and planning new
outlets for the feverish activity that seemed to
stimulate him to fresh efforts.

People began to talk of the young Vicar.
His sermons were changed somehow. There
was more in them  ' Less of the husk, and
more of the kernel,' as Miss Middleton once
remarked rather pithily.

They were wonderfully brief discourses ;
but whereas they had once been elegant and
somewhat scholarly productions, they were
now earnest and even pungent. If the
sentences were less carefully compiled, more
rough-hewn, and deficient in polish, there
was matter in them that roused people and
made them think.

I never could remember Mr. Drummond's
sermons before,' Dulce once observed,  but
now I can recollect whole sentences quite
nicely.'

Phillis, to whom she spoke, assented
by a nod. If she had chosen, she could
have admitted the fact that she could remember
not sentences, but the entire sermon
itself. In secret she marvelled also at the
change.

He is more in earnest,' she would say to
herself. ' He preaches now, not from the outside,
but from the inside of things ; from his

own experience, not from other people's. That
makes the difference.'

And to Nan, who was her other conscience,
she said one day, when they were discussing
this subject :

'I have been thinking a great deal about
sermons lately. I wish I could publish the
result of my cogitation. I feel inclined to
write a pamphlet, and entitle it, '' Hints to
the Clergy." I think it would take vastly.'

It was Sunday afternoon, and they were
sitting together on their favourite boulder,
Phillis had christened it her ' thinking-stone.*

I never think to more purpose than when
I am sitting here,' she would say.

Nan, vain w-as looking out to sea rather
dreamily, intent on her usual vision, Dick,
roused herself at this, and began to smile in a
lofty way.

You think yourself very clever, Phillis,
and so do I ; but sermons are hardly in your
province, my dear.'

Phillis shook her head gravely. She dissented
from this view of the case.

Common-sense is in everyone's province,'
she persisted. * I am a practical woman, and

some of my hints would be valuable. Sermons
are failures, Nan. They go over people's
heads like a flight of badly shot arrows.
Does not Goulburn say that ? Now and then
one touches the mark. When they are all
let fly hither and thither and anyhow, the
preacher shuts up his book, and his hearers
cease to yawn.'

Oh, Phillis, how absurd you are ! Suppose
Mr. Drummond were to hear you ?'

I should have no objection. But Nan,
seriously, do you not notice how formal and
cut-and-dried most sermons are ? They come
round regularly, like Sunday. People have
to bear being preached at, and so the unfortunate
parson must hammer it out of his head
somehow. He picks out his text, writes out
his composition, drags in his learning by the
ear, and delivers it in his best fashion ; and
people listen to it politely, and the best-behaved
do not yawn.'

Phillis, you are positively irreverent  I
am shocked at you !'

On the contrary  I am very reverent.
Well, in my '* Hints to the Clergy" I would
say first, ' Never preach what you do not

feel yourself, or the current of electricity or
sympathy, or whatever it is that communicates
between preacher and people, will be checked
or impeded. Do not preach out of the book ;
we can read that for ourselves. Preach out
of your own head, and your own experience,
just as much or as little as you can' Bless
you,' continued Phillis, in a wise, half-sad
tone, * half the pulpits would be empty  we
should get sometimes no sermons at all !'

This was too much for Nan's simplicity.

'But people would be so disappointed,' she
observed plaintively. ' All the middle-aged
people like sermons.'

It would not hurt them to be disappointed
sometimes. They would appreciate the real
thing all the more when it came. It is as
well to go without food altogether as to be
fed on husks. After all, people forget that
they come to church to say their prayers all
together, and sing glories.'

That is very nicely said, dear,' was Nan's
admiring comment on this.

But Phillis waved aside the praise. She
was quite in earnest.

But if I were speaking to one of these

real and not make-believe preachers, I would
say to him, '' Never be discouraged. Say
what you have got to say ; if you really feel it
and mean it, some one will feel it too. You
can't see into people's hearts, and a good
thing too, my friend. But ' the arrow at the
venture ' may tell  some one may be hit
between the joints of the armour." There,
come along, you shall have more of my hints
another time. I have said vay say for the
present.' And Phillis rose from the boulder,
with her eyes bright and kindled by some
moving thought, and went down to the edge
of the water, and watched a seagull dipping
towards the shore in the midst of the windy
lights ; while Nan, marvelling at her unusual
earnestness, followed more slowly.

The Challoners were holding up their heads
in the place now. There was no denying
that. By the people at the Vicarage and the
"White House they were owned and regarded
as equals. Mrs. Cheyne made no secret of
her affection for Phillis ; and she was full of
kindness also to Nan and Dulce. It was
their own fault if they declined her frequent
invitations. But there was one person who

refused to hold out the hand of amity to the
eccentric new-comers.

Colonel Middleton still shook his whitehead,
and delivered his protest into his
daughter's ear. Elizabeth declared laughingly,
* that the Challoner girls were to her
father what a red rag is to a bull.' He never
met one of them without coming home and
relieving his mind, as he called it. ' My
father is dying to know them,' she would say
to Mr. Drummond. ' He has fallen in love
with them all  mother and daughters too ;
but he is denying himself an introduction fora
certain reason.' But though Archie looked
curious and questioned her very closely, she
chose to be provoking and say no more.

It was Colonel Middleton who at last enlightened
the young man.

They were walking from the town together.
The Colonel was carrying his stick musket-wise
over his shoulder, and had the Yicar by
the arm, when Phillis and Dulce came out of
the gateway of the White House. As the
girls passed Archie they smiled at him and
nodded, and Phillis, in a pretty way she
had, waved her hand; and then they went

on rapidly towards the Friary. As they did
so Colonel Middleton groaned, and touched
his companion's arm impressively.

There now, Drummond, did you ever see
girls with a better carriage  heads up  light
springy step ? Why, it is a pleasure even to
an old fellow like myself to watch them.
Fancy that taller one on horseback in the
Eow ! Why, she would cut out half the
girls. And to think that one dare not notice
them ;' and he struck his stick into the ground
almost angrily.

Archie smiled  he could not help it. The
Colonel was so whimsical in his wrath.

They have plenty of notice from the folk
at the White House,' he returned quietly.

Ah, Cheyne was always a bit of a
Eadical, and madam is no better. They can
do as they like, without being afraid of consequences.
But that is not my case ;' and,
as Archie looked at him rather mystified, he
went on : * Bless me, you do not suppose I
am afraid of knowing them for my own sake ?
Elizabeth tells me that she is intimate with
them. But that is not my business, so long
as she does not have them at Brooklyn.

'ewe must draw the line there, Elizabeth'*
I said. " If you choose to visit your dressmakers
it is not for me to prevent you ; you
are old enough to select your own friends, so
sou may be as eccentric as you like. But
your brother is coming home. Young men
are young men ; and I do not choose to
expose Hammond to such temptations." '

Oh, Hammond ! That is your son, I
suppose ?' asked Archie, who was much
amused at the Coroners earnestness.

Yes ; my boy Hammond ! the finest
fellow in the regiment, though I say it, who
should not. Do you think that I, his father,
would expose him to such danger as to throw
him into the society of a set of fascinating
young women, who have chosen to emancipate
themselves from all conventionality, and
who call themselves  stuff and rubbish ! 
dressmakers.'

Not call themselves so ; they are excellent
dressmakers !' was Archie's somewhat
malicious reply.

All the more reason that my son should
not know them !' thundered the old man.
What, sir ! an officer in one of her Majesty's

regiments  the son and grandson of officers 
is such a one to be mixed up with a family
that has lost caste  to flirt with or make love
to girls who are not above making gowns for
my butcher's wife ? Before Hammond does

such a thing as that ' and here the

Colonel paused from excess of emotion.

You are perfectly right to defend your
son from such danger returned the young
clergyman, with covert sarcasm. ' In your
case I should probably feel the same. Butin
my position, being intimate with those
ladies of whom you speak, and having had
good opportunity to form my opinions of
them, I cannot help saying, in their defence,
that even your son, excellent officer as he
is  and, I am sure, a most worthy young
man  would scarcely be dishonoured by an
alliance with the finest young gentlewomen
I ever met !' and, as he said this, withall
due gravity, Archie released his arm, and,
with a farewell nod, went off, leaving the
Colonel, open-mouthed and gasping with
astonishment, at his own gate.

Elizabeth met him on the threshold.

Oh, father, why did you not bring Mr.

Drummond in ?' she said reproachfully ; ' it
is so long since he has paid us a visit

'Poor Drummond!' replied the Colonel,
with a mournful shake of his head ; ' it is
just as I thought. He has almost owned it,
in fact. He is seriously smitten with one of
those Challoner girls, and before long there
will be a wedding in the place.'

Now, father, this is just one of your
whimsies replied Elizabeth placidly. ' Mr.
Drummond is going to have his favourite
sister, Grace, to live with him and keep his
house. He told me so himself; and that
does not look as though he expected to bring
home a wife. So you may just put this idea
out of your head.' But, though Elizabeth
was well aware of the truth of her words, that
no new mistress was to come to the Vicarage,
still her fine sympathy and unerring woman's
divination had read the meaning of the young
Vicar's clouded brow, and she knew that he,
too, had to try and be grateful for ' the
blessings that went over his head.'

Archie's grand and somewhat heroic speech
failed in its effect, as far as the Colonel was
concerned. Elizabeth was right in saying

VOL. III. 48

her father was longing to know the Challoners,
The old man's fancy had been mightily taken
by the girls ; but for Hammond, for his boy's
sake, he was capable of any amount of self-denial.
Once he was sorely tempted to give
in. When turning the corner of the Braid-wood
Eoad, not far from his own house, he
came suddenly upon his daughter, who was
standing on the side-path talking to Dulce.

Dulce, who always seemed a sort of reflection
and shadow of her sisters, and who
withdrew somewhat in the background, obscured
a little by Nan's beauty and Phillis's
sprightliness, was nevertheless in her way a
most bewitching little maiden.

'There comes my father!' observed
Elizabeth tranquilly, never doubting that he
would join them ; and Dulce looked up, a
little shy and fluttered, from under her broad-brimmed
hat  for she had taken a fancy to
the Colonel, with his white moustache, and
kindly inquisitive eyes. He was a sort of
hero in her fancy ; and Dulce loved heroes 
especially when they wore a medal.

Colonel Middleton saw the little girl
dimpling and blushing with pleasure, and

his old heart thumped a little with excitement
and the conflict of feeling ; the innocent
child-look appealed to his fatherly sympathies.
There was a moment's wavering ; then he
lifted his white hat, with a muttered ' Good-mornings
and the next minute he was walking
on with squared shoulders and tremendous
energy.

Poor little Dulce's lip quivered with disappointment
; she thought it hard, when
other people were so kind to them. Elizabeth
said nothing ; but she bade the child goodbye
with greater tenderness than usual, and
sent all sorts of messages to her mother and
Nan.

The Colonel, meanwhile, had retreated into
the house, and was opening his papers with
more than his usual fuss.

It is for Hammond,' he murmured to
himself. * When one has boys, one must do
one's duty by them ; but it was confoundedly
hard  by Jove !' and all the remainder of the
day a pair of appealing eyes seemed to reproach
him with unkindness. But Elizabeth
never said a word ; it was not her place to
find fault with her father.

482

HOW DO YOU DO, AUNT CATHERINE ?'

NE drizzling November morning,
Mattie was standing at the hall-door
looking out a little blankly
through the open gateway at the prospect
before her  at the rotting leaves that lay
heaped up in the road, and at the gray
humid sky, when a very big man suddenly
blocked up the entrance, and startled her
dreadfully.

Mattie afterwards described the occurrence
very graphically to her brother.

He was the biggest man I ever saw in
my life, Archie. He looked as strong as a
navvy ; and his shoulders reminded me of
one of those men one sees in brewers' drays.

And this face was so red ; and his hair, too 
that dreadfully red colour, you know, that no
one admires ; and his hands, and even his
voice, were big

What a fascinating description!' laughed
Archie. * Upon my word, Mattie, you are
rather tremendous in your language. Welland
what did the navvy say to you ?'

Oh, he was not a navvy, really ! Of
course he was a gentleman. He could not
help his big voice, and what he said was
nice ; but, I assure you, Archie, he nearly
took my breath away ;' and so on, and so onto
the end of her story.

But it was enough to surprise anyone
whose nerves were not of the strongest, when
one lives in a lonely country road, and the
master of the house is out, to see a gigantic
specimen of manhood, not very carefully
dressed, and with hair like a red glory, come
suddenly striding through one's open gate,
without ' by your leave,' or waiting for any
possible permission.

Mattie dropped her umbrella, for she was
dressed in her waterproof, and her oldest hat,
ready for her district-work ; and the stranger

picked it up, and handed it to lier promptly,
and then he removed his hat politely.

How do you do, cousin ?' he said ; and a
broad, genial smile revealed a set of white
teeth.

Mattie retreated a step in genuine affright.

'For you know, Archie she explained
afterwards, in her simple way, ' we have no
cousins worth mentioning, except Sophy
Trinder, who is not our cousin at all, but
mother's; and so you see it sounded so
very odd.'

Very odd indeed,' muttered Archie.

If you please, Mr. Drummond  that is my
brother  is out, and I am going out too,' faltered
Mattie, who was not a specially heroic little
person, and who decidedly had not got her
wits about her just then.

*I do not want Mr. Drummond, whoever
he may be. I never heard of him in my life.
I only want my aunt and cousins. Which of
them are you, eh ? Why, you must be Nan,
I suppose ?' and the big man looked down
at her with a sort of supercilious good-nature.
The name gave Mattie instant enlightenment.


nan !  oh, you must mean the Challoners !'
she exclaimed, with a little gasp of surprise.

Yes, of course ; I am a Challoner myself.
Well, which of them are you, eh ? You area
long time telling me your name ;' and the
new-comer peered down at her still more
curiously, as though he were surprised to find
anything so small and ordinary looking.

Mattie never looked to advantage in her
waterproof. More than once her brother had
threatened to burn the old rag of a thing.

My name is Mattie Drummond,' replied
the bewildered Mattie, trying to speak with
dignity  she never would call herself Matilda,
she hated it so  ' and I live with my brother,
who is the clergyman of the parish. This is
the Vicarage ; if you want the Friary, it is a
little lower down the road.'

Where T he asked, striding to the gate ;
and then he came back again, taking the few
steps at a single bound  so at least it appeared
to Mattie. ' Why  why  there is no house at
all  only a miserable cottage, and '

That is the Friary,' repeated Mattie
decidedly ; ' but it is not miserable at all  it
is very nice and pretty. The Challoners are

very poor, you know ; but their house looks
beautiful for all that

Oh yes ; I know all about it. I have been
down to that place, Oldfield, where they lived ;
and what I heard has brought me here like
an express train. I say. Miss Mattie Drummond,
if you will excuse ceremony in a fellow
who has never seen his father's country before,
and who has roughed it in the colonies, may
I come in a moment and ask you a few
questions about my cousins ?'

Oh, by all means,' returned Mattie, who
was very good-natured, and was now more at
her ease. 'You will be very welcome, Mr.
Challoner.'

 Sir Henry Challoner, at your service,'
responded that singular individual, with a
twinkle of his eye, as Mattie became confused
all at once. ' You see,' he continued confidentially,
as she led the way rather
awkwardly to her brother's study, hoping
fervently that Archie would come in, * I have
been making up my mind to come to England
for years, but somehow I have never been
able to get away ; but after my father's death
-  he was out in Australia with me  I was so

lonely and cut up, that I thought I would
take a run over to the mother country and
hunt up my relations. He was not much of
a father, perhaps ; but as one cannot have a
choice in such matters, I was obliged to put
up with him ;' which was perhaps the kindest
speech Sir Francis's son could make under the
circumstances.

Mattie listened intelligently, but she was
so slightly acquainted with the Challoners'
past history that she did not know they possessed
any relations. But she had no need to
ask any questions ; the new-comer seemed
determined to give a full account of himself.

So do you see, Miss Drummond, having
made my fortune by a stroke of good luck
and not knowing quite how to spend it  the
father and mother both gone  and having no
wife or chick of my own, and being uncommon
lonely under the circumstances, I thought I
would just run over and have a look at my
belongings. I had a sort of fancy for Aunt
Catherine ; she used to write me such pretty
letters when I was a little chap in Calcutta,
and tell me about Nan, and Phillis, and  what
was the baby's name ?  Dulce. I believe she

and the poor old governor never hit it off;
the old man had been a sad sinner in his day.
But I never forgot those letters ; and when he
was gone, poor old boy ! I said to myself, Now
I will go and see Aunt Catherine

'And you went down to Oldfield, Sir
Henry T

Eh, what ! meaning me, I suppose ? but
out there they called me Sir Harry, or Harry
mostly, for what was the use of a title there ?
Oh yes ; I went down and found out all about
them from a chatty little woman, rather like
yourself, and she sent me on here

Oh dear, I am so glad !' exclaimed Mattie,
who was now thoroughly herself ; ' they will
be so pleased to see you, and you will think
them all so charming. I am sure I never
saw anyone the least like them, except Grace,
and she is not half so pretty as Nan ; and as
for Phillis, I admire her even more, she lights
up so when she talks

Aunt Catherine used to be beautiful,'
observed Sir Harry gravely ; for then and
afterwards he insisted on that form of address.
He was not English enough or sufficiently
stiff for Henry, he would say.

Oh dear, yes ! she is quite lovely now  at
least Archie and I think so ; and Dulce is the
dearest little thing. I am ever so fond of
them ; if they were my own sisters I could
not love them more continued Mattie, with
a little gush ; but, indeed, the girl's gentle
high-bred ways had won her heart from the
erst.

Sir Harry's eyes positively sparkled with
delight ; he had pleasant eyes which redeemed
his other features, for it must be confessed he
was decidedly plain.

I must shake hands with you, Miss Drummond,'
he said, stretching out a huge hand,
with a diamond ring on it that greatly impressed
Mattie. ' We shall be good friends,
I see that;' and though poor Mattie winced
with pain under that cordial grasp, she hid it
manfully.

Did they tell you at Oldfield how poor
they are ?' she said, when this ceremony had
been performed ; and Sir Harry's face looked
more like a sunset than ever with that benevolent
glow on it.

'Oh yes,' he returned indifferently; *but
all that is over now.'

You know they have to work for their
living; the girls are dressmakers bringing
out the news rather cautiously, for fear he
should be shocked ; a baronet must be sensitive
on such points. But Sir Harry only
laughed.

*Well, they are plucky girls he said
admiringly ; ' I like them for that.' And then
he asked, a little anxiously, if his aunt sewed
gowns too ?  that was how he put it, and
seemed mightily relieved to hear that she did
very little but read to the girls.

I would not like to hear she was slaving
herself at her age,' he remarked seriously.
Work will not hurt the girls ; it keeps them
out of mischief. But now I have come, we
must put a stop to all this.' And then he got
up and threw back his shoulders, as though
he were adjusting them to some burthen ; and
Mattie, as she looked up at him, thought
again of the brewer's dray.

- * I was afraid when he got off his chair he
would touch the ceiling,' she said afterwards.
He quite stooped of his own accord going
through the study doorway.'

When Sir Henry had shaken himself into

order, and pulled an end of his rough red
moustache, he said, quite suddenly :

As you are a friend of the family, Miss
Drummond, I think it would be as well if
you would go with me to the Friary, and
introduce me in due form ; for, though you
would not believe it in a man of my size, I
am painfully shy, and the notion of all these
girls, unless I take them singly, is rather
overwhelming ;' and, though this request took
Mattie a little by surprise, she saw no reason
for refusing to do him this kindness. So she
assented willingly, for in her heart Mattie
was fond of a scene. It gave her such a
hold on Archie's attention afterwards ; and,
to do him justice, when the Challoners were
on the tapis he made a splendid listener.

Sir Henry walked very fast, as though he
were in a tremendous hurry ; but he was
nervous, poor fellow, and, though he did not
like to own as much to a woman, he would
almost have liked to run away, in spite of his
coming all those thousands of miles to see his
relations. He had pressed Mattie into the
service to cover his confusion, but the little
woman herself hardly saw how she was

needed, for, instead of waiting for her introduction,
or sending in this name or card by
Dorothy, he just put them both aside and
stepped into the first room that stood handy,
guided by the sound of voices.

How do you do. Aunt Catherine T he said,
walking straight up to the terrified lady, who
had never seen anything so big in her life. * I
am Harry  Harry Challoner, you know  to
whom you used to write when I was a little
slip of a boy.'

A strange queen in a hive of bees could
not have produced more confusion. Dulce
stopped her sewing-machine so suddenly that
her thread broke ; Phillis, who was reading
aloud, let her book fall with quite a crash ;
and Nan said, * Oh dear!' and grew quite
pale with surprise and disappointment  for a
moment she thought it was Dick. As for
Mrs. Challoner, who had a right to her nerves
from years of injudicious spoiling and indulgence,
and would not have been without her
feelings for worlds, she just clasped her hands
and murmured ' Good heavens !' in the
orthodox ladylike way.

Why, yes, Aunt Catherine, I am Harry ;

and I hope you have not forgotten the existence
of the poor little beggar to whom you
were so kind in the old Calcutta days ;' and
his big voice softened involuntarily in the
presence of this dignified aunt.

'Oh no, my dear !  no !' touched by his
manner, and remembering the boyish scrawls
that used to come to her, signed ' Your affectionate
nephew, Harry.' ' And are you indeed
my nephew ?  are you Harry T and then she
held out her slim hand, which he took awkwardly
enough. ' Girls, you must welcome
your cousin. This is Nan, Harry, the one they
always say is like me ; and this is Phillis, our
clever one ; and this my pet Dulce.' And
with each one did their cousin solemnly shake
hands, but without a smile ; indeed, his
aspect became almost ludicrous, until he
caught sight of his homely little acquaintance,
Mattie, who stood an amused spectator
of this family tableau, and his red, embarrassed
face brightened a little.

'Aunt Catherine was such an awfully
grand creature, you know,' as he observed to
her afterwards, in a confidential aside ; ' her
manners make a fellow feel nowhere. And

as for my cousins, a prettier lot of girls I
never saw anywhere ; and, of course, they
are as jolly and up to larks as other girls ;
hut, just at first, you know, I had a 
sort of feeling among them all

Mrs. Challoner, in spite of her fine manners,
was far too nervous herself to notice her
nephew's discomfort. She had to mention a
name that was obnoxious to her, for of course
she must ask after his father. She got him
into a chair by her at length, where he stared
into his hat to avoid the bright eyes that
seemed to quiz him so unmercifully.

'And how is Sir Francis?' she asked,
littering the name with languid interest.

My father ! Oh, did you not know. Aunt
Catherine ?  he died out in Sydney a year ago.
Poor old fellow ! he had a terrible illness.
There was no pulling him through it.'

Mrs. Challoner roused up at this.

Your father dead ! Then, Harry, you
have come to the title V

But her nephew burst into a boisterous
laugh at this.

Yes  a title and an old ruin. A precious
heritage, is it not ? Not that I care what

people call me. The most important part is
that another fellow  Dalton they call him 
and I made a grand hit out in Sydney.
When I saw the money flowing in, I just
sent for the poor old governor to join me ;
and we did not have a bad time of it, until
the gout took him off. And then I got sick
of it all, and thought I would have a look at
England, and hunt up my relations.'

Sir Harry had blurted out this long speech
as he still attentively regarded the lining of
his hat ; but happening to look up, he caught
Phillis's eyes, which were contemplating him.
The mischievous look of fun in them was not
to be resisted. Sir Harry first got redder, if
possible ; then his own eyes began to twinkle,
and finally they both laughed. And after
that the ice was broken, and they got on
famously.

The girls chattered to him like magpies.
They made Mattie take off her hat and
hideous old waterproof, and stay to luncheon.
Nan smoothed her hair, which was sadly
ruffled, and Phillis settled her brooch and
collar.

There was only cold mutton in the larder ;

VOL. III. 49

but what did that matter ? Dulce ran out in
the garden and picked dallas for the table ;
and Nan took her mother's keys and drew
from the recesses of a dim sweet-smelling
press some dainty napkins and a fine old
cloth that might have suited a princess.
There was a bottle of rare Madeira that remained
from their stock of wine; and Dorothy
had made a batch of fresh dinner-rolls.
Dorothy was always full of resources on an
emergency.

Don't fash yourself, Miss Nan she said,
when her young mistress came into the
kitchen. ' The cold mutton can't be helped ;
but we have got angels in the larder, and I
will just pop them into the oven.'

Sir Harry roared with laughter when
Dorothy's speech was repeated to him. The
little puddings were declared by Mattie to be
delicious ; but Sir Harry could scarcely eat
his for laughing.

Who ever heard of baked angels. Aunt
Catherine!' he exclaimed, after another explosion.


My dear, it is only a name,' she returned
mildly. ' Will you have another, Harry ?

And Nan, you must pass your cousin the
Madeira

They were all seated round the table in
the small parlour. It was felt to be a
triumph when Sir Harry contrived to seat
himself without grazing himself seriously
against the chiffonnier, or knocking over a
piece of the blue and gold china.

What a cosy little cabin of a place !' he
said, with critical approval ; ' but it is rather
small to hold you all  eh, Aunt Catherine ?'

Yes ; it is small after Glen Cottage,' she
sighed. ' We had such a pretty drawing-room
there.'

'x\ud such a lovely garden!' added
Dulce.

Oh, this crib is not fit for you ! We will
alter all that,' he returned complacently. 'I
am the head of the family now, and I must
take my uncle's place. I am awfully rich. Aunt
Catherine ; so you have only got to tell me
what you and the girls want, you know ;' and
then he rubbed his hands as though he were
pleased about something.

But no one took any notice of this speech,
hardly knowing how to treat it.

492

When luncheon  which was, indeed, the
family dinner  was over, the girls carried
him off to the work-room, and showed him
specimens of their skill.

Very nice  very well done,' he observed
approvingly. ' I am glad you showed such
pluck; for why any woman should think it
infra dig, to make a gown for another woman
quite beats me. Why, bless you, in the
colonies we fellows turned our hands to-anything
! Well, Aunt Catherine, they are
plucky ones, these girls of yours. But we
must put a stop to this sort of thing, you and
I. I don't think my uncle would have liked

it. And as I am in his place ' and here

he thrust aside some amber satin with his
great hands, with a movement full of suggestive
possibilities.

He took them ail out to walk after that.
Mrs. Challoner, indeed, begged to be excused
the poor lady was already sadly fatigued,
and longed for her nap  but he would not
dispense with Mattie's company.

Wee were acquaintances first,' he said to
her ;  and I look upon you as a sort of
cousin too, Miss Mattie ;' and poor little

I

Mattie, who had never met with so much
friendliness before, quite wished and bridled
with pleasure.

Mr. Drummond, who was coming out of his
own gate, stood as though transfixed as the
procession came towards him. The four girls
were walking all abreast, Mattie in the middle ;
and beside them stalked a huge man, in rough,
rather outlandish attire, looking like a son of
the Ananias, or a red-headed Goliath.

Archie stood still in the middle of the road,
and Mattie rushed up to him.

We are going for a walk. Oh, Archie, I
wish you would come too ! It would be such
fun!'

Yes ; do come !' cried unconscious Nan,
seconding her out of pure good-nature. ' Mr.
Drummond, this is our cousin. Sir Henry
Challoner, who has just come from Australia ;
and we have never seen him before ;' and
then the young clergyman shook hands with
him very stiffly, and spoke a few conventional
words.

They have not a man belonging to them,'
he had said to himself triumphantly, and then
that odious Dick had turned up, and now this

extraordinary-looking being who called himself
Sir Henry Challoner.

Archie took down the  Peerage ' when he
got home, for he could not be induced to join
the merry party in their walk. He found
the name there all right  * Henry Fortescue
Challoner, son of Sir Francis Challoner, son
of Sir Henry Challoner,' and so on. It was
an old baronetcy  one of the oldest in
England  but the estates had dwindled
down to a half-ruined residence and a few
fields. ' Challoner Place,' as it was called,
was nothing but a heap of mouldering walls ;
but Mattie had whispered to him gleefully
that he was ' awfully rich, and the head of
the family, and unmarried ; and he did not
mean to let his cousins make gowns any more
for other people, though they might do it for
themselves.'

Mattie never forgot that walk  never in
her life had she enjoyed such fun. Archie,
With his grave face and prim ways, would have
spoiled the hilarity.

First Sir Henry took his cousins to the
hotel, where they heard him order his apartments
and dinner  he evidently considered

he had not dined ; and there was a good deal
of discussion about some game that he ordered,
and a certain brand of champagne that was to
his liking.

If they make me comfortable, I may stop
on a goodish bit he informed them, * until
we have settled where my aunt would like to
live. I shall run up to London every few
days, and can do all your commissions. By-the-bye,
I got some trinkets for you girls on
my way down ; we will haul them over,
when I come up for the cup of coffee Aunt
Catherine promised me this evening.'

Now, Harry, we don't want presents,' remarked
Phillis, taking him to task as easily
as though she had known him all her lifelong.


In spite of his bigness, his great burly
figure and plain face, there was something
so pleasant about him. He was rough and
unpolished  his dress was careless and of
colonial cut ; and yet one could not fail to
see he was a gentleman. His boyishness and
fun would have delighted Dick, who was
of the same calibre ; only Dick was far
cleverer, and had more in his little finger

than this great lumbering Harry in his whole
body.

He was slow and clumsy, but his heart
and intentions were excellent; he was full
of tenderness for women, and showed a
touching sort of chivalry in his intercourse
with them. In some ways, his manners were
far finer than a New Bond Street gentleman ;
for he could not sneer at a woman ; he
believed in the goodness of the sex, in spite
of much knowledge to the contrary ; he
could not tell a lie ; and he only cheated
himself. This was saying a good deal for the
son of that very black sheep Sir Francis;
but, as Sir Harry once simply observed, ' his
mother was a good woman ;' if this were
the case, her husband's vices must have
shortened her life, for she died young.

Phillis was glad when they turned their
backs on the town ; she found her cousin's
long purse a difficulty  it seemed an impossibility
to get him past the shops.

First, he was sure Aunt Catherine was
fond of champagne  all ladies liked sweet
sparkling things ; but he would see about
that at the hotel presently. Then his attention

was attracted by some grouse hanging up
at the poulterer's  Aunt Catherine must have
some grouse, as he remembered the cold
mutton. Phillis made no objection to the
grouse, for she knew her mother's fondness
for game ; but she waxed indignant when
partridges and a hare where added  and still
more when Sir Harry ransacked the fruiterer's
for a supply of the rarest fruit the town could
afford. After this, he turned his attention to
cakes and bonbons ; but here Dulce took his
part, for she loved bonbons. Phillis caught
Nan by the arm, and compelled her to leave
them; but Mattie deserted her friends, and
remained to watch the fun.

Dulce grew frightened at last, and tried to
coax her cousin away.

Oh, no more  no more !' she pleaded.
Phillis and Nan will be so angry with
us.'

I don't see anything more worth getting,'
returned her cousin contemptuously. ' What
a place this is, to be sure ! Never mind,
Dulce ; I am going up to London tomorrow,
and I will bring you down as many bonbons
as you like from the French place in Present

Not like other Girls.

Street. I will bring Miss Mattie some too
lie continued, as the girls hurried him along.
And, Dulce, just write out a list of what
you girls want ; and I will get them, as sure
as my name is Harry.'

Allies.

Here was quite a battle-royal or
the seashore after that  Dulce and
Phillis pelted Laddie with bonbons;
while their mother enjoyed her nap in the snug
parlour. And Dorothy, pleased, bewildered,
and half frightened at what the mistress
might say, stowed away game and fruit and
confectionery in the tiny larder, and then
turned her attention to such a tea as her
young ladies had not seen since the Glen
Cottage days.

Laddie raced and barked, and nearly made
himself ill with the sweet-things ; and Nan
laughed, and then grew serious as she remembered
an afternoon in the Longmead Meadows,

%vhen Dick, in wild spirits, had pelted her and
Phillis with roses until their laps were full of
the delicious, fragrant leaves. * *' Sweets to
the sweet "  so look out for yourself, Nan !' he
had said in his half-rough, boyish ways. But
that was in the days when both were very
young, and Dick had not learned to make
love.

Mattie joined in the game a little awkwardly;
it was so long since the poor little
woman had played at anything. Her younger
sisters never chose .Mattie in their games.
She makes such mistakes, and puts us out ;
and that spoils the fun they said ; and so
Grace was their favourite playfellow.

For it is perfectly true some grown-up
people have forgotten how to play, while
others are such children at heart that they
can abandon themselves most joyously and
gracefully to any game, however romping ;
but Mattie, who was sobered by frequent
snubbing, was not one of these. She loved
fun still, in her way ; but not as Phillis and
Dulce, who thought it the cream of life, and
would not be content with the sort of skimmed-milk
existence of other young ladies.

Sir Harry watched them admiringly, and
this enthusiasm grew every moment.

I say, you are the right sort, and na
mistake. I never met jollier girls in my life.
A fellow would not know which to choose 
would he, Miss Mattie ?'

Mattie took this seriously.

Nan is chosen  are you not. Nan ?' she
said, in her downright fashion. And then, as
Sir Harry stared at this, and Nan blushed
and looked even prettier, Phillis first scolded
Mattie soundly for her bluntness, and then
took upon herself to describe Dick's perfections.


The dearest fellow in the world, Harry
when you come to know him ; but not handsome,
and dreadfully young-looking, some
people think. But as Nan will not look at
anyone else, we must make the best of him.'

And when are they to be married ?' asked
her cousin curiously. He was not quite pleased
with this discovery.

 When ?  oh, Harry, there is an *' if " in
the case,' returned Phillis solemnly. * The
dearest fellow in the world has an ogre of
a father  a man so benighted  so narrow in

this prejudices, that he thinks it decidedly
infra dig. for his intended daughter-in-law to
sew other people's gowns. I do love that
expression, Harry  it is so forcible. So he
forbids the banns.'

No, really  is she serious, Nan ?' But
Nan grew shy all at once, and would not
answer.

I am serious. Sir Henry Challoner,' replied
Phillis pompously. * The path of truelove
is impeded. Poor Dick is pining in his
rooms at Oxford ; and Nan  well, I am afraid
her looks belie her ; only you know appearances
are sometimes deceitful.' And indeed
Nan's pink cheeks and air of placid contentment
scarcely bore out her sister's words.

The newly found cousin sat in silent perplexity
staring at them both. Love affairs
were not much in his way ; and until now he
had never been thrown much with his equals
in the other sex. His rough colonial life,
full of excitement and money-getting, had
engrossed his youth. He vas now a man of
thirty; but in disposition, in simplicity, and
a certain guilelessness of speech, he seemed
hardly more than an overgrown boy. Phillis,

who was fantastic, had already nicknamed
Mm Hercules.

Well, now, is it not like a book T he said
at last, breaking the silence quite abruptly.
It must be an awful bother for you, Nan ;
but we must put a stop to all that. I am
the head of the family ; and I shall have a
word to say to that Mr.  what is his name ?'

Mr. Mayne,' returned Nan softly ; but
Phillis said nothing.

It was at this moment that the name of
Hercules came into her head for her cousin.
What feats of strength did he mean to undertake
on their behalf ? Would he strangle the
Hydra-headed monster of public opinion that
pronounced ' women who sewed other women's
gowns ' were not to be received into society ?
Would he help Nan gather the golden apples
of satisfied love and ambition ? What was it
that he meant to do by dint of sheer force
and good-nature ?

Harry Challoner did not long leave them
in ignorance of his intentions. In the coolest
possible way he at once assumed the headship
of the family  adopting them at once,
and giving them the benefit of his opinions

on every point that could possibly be
mooted.

I had not a soul belonging to me until
now he said, looking round on his cousins'
bright faces with a glow of honest satisfaction
on his own. ' It made a fellow feel precious
lonely out there, I can tell you.'

You ought to have married, Harry,' suggested
Dulce.

I never thought anyone would care for
such a great hulking fellow,' he returned
simply ; ' and then the girls over there were
not to my taste. Besides, I never thought of
it  I was too busy. I am going to take a
holiday now, and look about me a little ; and
when you and Aunt Catherine are settled, I
may have a try myself at some one,' he
finished, with a big laugh.

This notion amused the girls immensely,
then and afterwards. They began to talk of
the future Lady Challoner. Nan proposed
one of the Paines. Phillis thought if Grace
Drummond were only as sweet-looking as her
photograph, he could hardly help falling in
love with her. And Dulce was of opinion
that Adelaide Sartoris, handsome and queenly

as she was, would not consider a baronet
beneath her. They confided all these thoughts
to Sir Harry, who thanked them quite gravely
for their interest, and promised to consider
the matter. He even wrote down the names
in his pocket-book, one after another.

Adelaide Sartoris, did you say ? Ah, we
had an Adelaide at Sydney, a little dark thing,
with hair blown all over her temples, and
such a pair of mischievous eyes ; that girl
was always laughing at me, somehow. And
yet she seemed sorry to bid me good-bye.'

Perhaps she was in love with you T observed
Dulce. But Phillis frowned at this.
She thought they had gone too far in their
jokes already with a cousin who was such a
complete stranger. But he returned quite
gravely :

Well now, you know, such a thing never
came into my head. I talked to her because
a fellow likes to be amused by a lively girl
like Miss Addie. But as to thinking seriously
of her  well, I could not stand that, you
know, to be laughed at all one's life  eh,
Miss Mattie ?' And Mattie, at this appeal,
looked up with round, innocent eyes, and said

VOL. III. 50

Certainly not ' in such an impressive tone
that the other girls burst out laughing.

They all went home after that. Sir Harry
escorted his cousins and Mattie to the Friary,
and then returned to his hotel to dinner.
But the girls, who were in a merry mood,
would not part with Mattie. They sent her
home to put on her green silk dress, with
strict orders that she was to return as soon as
possible.

 We are all going to make ourselves pretty,'
announced Phillis. ' A cousin does not turnup
every day ; and when he promises to be a
good fellow, like Harry, we cannot do him too
much honour.'

Ah, I should like to come,' returned
Mattie. * I have had such a nice day ; and
if Archie will not mind    ' And then she
bustled into the Vicarage, and into her
brother's study.

Archie roused himself a little wearily from
his abstraction to listen to his sister's story ;
but at the end of it he said good-naturedly,
for he had taught himself to be tolerant of
Mattie's little gaucheries :

And the long and short of it is that you

want to be gadding again. Well, run and
get ready, or you will keep their tea waiting ;
and do put on your collar straight, Mattie.'
But this slight thrust was lost on Mattie
as she delightedly withdrew. Archie sighed
as he tried to compose himself to his reading.
He had not been asked to join Mattie. For
the last few weeks he had become a stranger
to the cottage. Did they notice his absence ?
he wondered. Did they miss the visits that
had once been so frequent ? By-and-by he
would resume his old habits of intimacy, and
go amongst them as he had done ; but just
now the effort was too painful. He dreaded
the unspoken sympathy in Phillis's eyes. He
dreaded anything like an understanding
between them. Nan's perfect unconsciousness
was helpful to him ; but there was something
in Phillis's manner that stirred up an
old pain. For the present he was safer and
happier alone in his study, though Mattie
did not think so, and told her friends that
Archie looked terribly dull.

Mrs. Challoner proposed sending for him ;
but Phillis, greatly to her mother's surprise,
negatived the proposition.

502

Oh no, mother ; pray do not ! Mattie,
you must excuse me, I do not mean to be
rude, but we should all have to be so dreadfully
well-behaved if Mr. Drummond came,
and I just feel myself in a '' nonsense mood,"
as Dulce used to say when she was a baby
And then they all forgot Archie, and fell to
discussing the new cousin.

He is dreadfully ugly, mammie, is he
not ?' observed Dulce, who had a horror of
red hair. But Mrs. Challoner demurred.

Well, no, pet ; I cannot agree with you.
He is very plain, but so is Dick ; but it struck
me they were both rather alike.' An indignant
'How can you, mother!' from Nan.
'Well, my dear,' she continued placidly, 'I
do not mean really alike, for they have not a
feature in common ; but they have both got
the same honest, open look, only Dick's face
is more intelligent.' But this hardly appeased
Nan, who was heard to say under her breath
that she thought Dick had the nicest face in
the world.'

And Sir Harry has a nice face too, has he
not, Mrs. Challoner ?' exclaimed Mattie, who
never could be silent in a discussion. ' It

takes time to get used to such very red hair ;
and, of course, he is dreadfully big, almost
too big, I should say. But when he talks he
has such a good-natured way with him ; now
hasn't he ?' appealing to Nan, who looked justa
little glum  that is, glum for Nan, for she
could not do the sulks properly ; she could
only look dignified.

Mrs. Challoner grew a little alarmed at her
daughter's demure face. ' Nan darling, you
know I am as fond of Dick as possible ; but I
cannot help being pleased with my new
nephew, can I ? And I must say I think
Harry is very nice, in spite of his roughness.'
But here Phillis, who had been unaccountably
silent, suddenly struck in :

Mother, it was a mistake mentioning
Dick; the name is sacred. Nan, if it will
please you we will declare that he is beautiful
as a young Apollo.'

Don't be a goose, Phil !' from her sister.
But Nan was smiling.

As for Harry, he is a perfect hero. I
expect great things from the great man. To
my imagination he is a perfect Hercules 
Heracles, son of Zeus and Alcmene. I

wonder if Harry could tell us the name of
Hercules's mother T

Of course not, and no one else either retorted
Dulce.

But Phillis did not heed this.

To me he shall be the young Ascites.
He has promised to fight the Demean lion, in
the shape of Richard Mayne the elder. By-and-by
we shall have him striking off the
heads of the Lernean Hydra. You look
mystified, Nan. And I perceive Mattie hasa
perplexed countenance. I am afraid you
are deficient in heathen mythology ; but I
will spare your ignorance. You will see,
though, I am right '

But Phillis ' broke in Dulce eagerly.

But Phillis waved her hand majestically at
the interruption.

Mother, to be serious, I consider Harry
in the light of a providential interposition.
You are always mourning that there is nota
man belonging to us. Well, now we have
got one, large as life, and larger, and a very
good fellow, as you say ; and we are no longer
*' forlorn females." '

And indeed, Phillis, I am most thankful

for that, my dear ; for if Harry be only as good

as a brother to you '

He means to be more returned Phillis,
with a sage nod of her head. * He talks in
the coolest way, as though he had adopted
the whole family, and meant to put a spoke
into the domestic wheel. ' I must put a stop
to this, or that must be altered," has been
a frequent remark of his. Mother, if he is
dreadfully rich, as he says, does he mean to
make us rich too ?'

My dear, we have no claim on him.'

He thinks we have the strongest possible
claim  does he not. Nan ? You should have
heard him talk this afternoon ! According to
him, we where never to sew gowns again ;
Nan and Dick were to be immediately united ;
the Friary was to be pulled down, and a
glorified Glen Cottage to be erected in its
stead. But, mother '  here Phillis's lip grew
plaintive  ' you won't desert your own girls,
and be talked over even by an Alcides ? We
do not mean to have our little deeds all put
on the shelf in that off-hand fashion. I shall
sew gowns as long as I like, in spite of a
hundred Sir Harry.'

And then they perceived that, under
Phillis's fun, there was a vein of serious
humour ; and that, in spite of her admiration
of her hero, she was a little afraid that her
notions of independence would be wounded.

They became divided on the question.
Mrs. Challoner, who had never had a son of
her own, and did not much like the idea of a
son-in-law, was disposed to regard her nephew
warmly, and to accord to him at once his
privilege of being head of the family.

In this case, a cousin is as good as a
brother,' she averred ; and Nan rather leant
to her opinion.

You see,' she said, in her practical way,
addressing no one particular, but looking at
Phillis, * it has been terribly against us,
having no one belonging to us of the same
name ; and it really will give us a standing
with some sort of people.'

 Fie, Nan ! what a worldly speech ! You
are thinking of that tiresome Mayne 'pere
again.'

I have to think of him,' returned Nan,
not at all put out by this. * Dick's father
must be a person of great importance to me ;

he has often hinted m my hearing that we
have no relations, and that the Challoner
name will die out. I expect he will be
rather taken aback at Harry's appearance

Yes ; and Dick will be jealous  he
always is of other fellows, as he calls them.
You must score that up against Dick, please.
Well, I won't deny Harry may make himself
useful there ; all I protest against is the idea
that he will bundle us out of this dear old
Friary, and make us grand, in spite of ourselves.'


Dear old Friary!  oh, oh !' gasped Dulce;
and even Nan looked mildly surprised.

He will not make me give up my work
until I choose,' continued Phillis, who was
in an obstinate mood.  It is not make-believe
play-work, I can tell him that ;' but
Mrs. Challoner grew tearful at this.

Phillis, my dear, pray hush ! Indeed 
indeed I cannot have you talking as though
you meant and wished to be a dressmaker all
your life.'

And when Philos asked, ' Why not ?' just
for the sake of argument  for in her heart
she was growing heartily sick of her employment

 her mother threw up her hands in
despair.

Oh, my dear Miss Drummond, do not
believe her ! PhilHs is a good girl ; but she
is always like that  hard to be convinced.
She does not really mean it. She has
worked harder than any of them; but she
has only done it for her mother's sake.'

Of course she does not mean it echoed
Nan affectionately, and much struck by a
sudden yearning look on Phillis's face  an
expression of smothered pain ; but Phillis
drew away from her sister's gentle grasp.

I do mean it V she said, almost passionately.
' I am dreadfully tired of the work
sometimes, and hate it. Oh, how I hate it !
But I think I have been happy, too. I liked
the excitement of the fighting, and the
novelty of the thing ; it was such fun  first
shocking people, and then winning them over,
in spite of themselves. One felt *' plucky,"
as Harry said. And then one's friends were
so real ;' and her eyes fell unconsciously on
Mattie.

Oh yes,' returned Mattie, with her usual
gush ; ' Archie and I took to you from the

first. I must say I was surprised, knowing
low fastidious Archie was, and his notions
about young ladies in general. But, dear,
he never would hear a word against you ; he
was even angry with Colonel Middleton the
other day because  but there, I ought not to
have told you that.'

Oh, we know all about it !' returned
Phillis carelessly ; but Dulce's bright face
looked a little overcast.  Son Hammond is
in the case ; and we can all judge of a
father's feelings by a certain example that
shall be nameless. Good gracious, mammie !
there comes the Alcides himself, and Dorothy
has not cleared the tea-things ! I vote we
meet him in the garden to avert breakages ;'
and Phillis's proposition was carried out.

But when they were all seated in the little
parlour again, and the lamp was brought,
sundry packages made their appearance, and
were delightedly unpacked by the girls,
Phillis assisting with great interest, in spite
of her heroic speeches.

One can accept gifts from a cousin,' she
said afterwards.

Sir Harry had shown good taste in his

purchases. The ornaments and nicknames
were all pretty and well chosen. The good-natured
fellow had ransacked the shops in
Paris for such things as he thought would
please his unknown cousins. The bracelets,
and fans, and gloves, and laces, made Dulce
almost dance with glee. The lace was for
Aunt Catherine, he said ; and there were
gloves for everybody  dozens and dozens of
them. But the fans and bracelets were for
the girls ; and tomorrow he would get the
bonbons for Dulce. And then, as the girls
laughingly apportioned the spoil, he whispered
something to Nan, at which she nodded and
smiled.

Mattie, who was admiring the lace in her
short-sighted way, felt something touch her
elbow, and found Nan pushing a fan and a
parcel of gloves towards her  beautiful
gloves, such as Isabel had in her trousseau.

Yes ; take them  we have so many ;
and, indeed, we have no use for more than a
fan apiece. Oh, you extravagant Harry !'

Sir Harry laughed as he balanced the fan
clumsily on his huge finger.

Take it ; you are very welcome. Miss

Mattie. You know we are quite old acquaintances
; and, indeed, I look on you as a sort
of cousin.'

Oh dear  thank you ; you are very good,
Sir Harry,' cried poor Mattie, blushing with
pleasure.

Never had she spent such a day in her life
a day wherein she had not been once
snubbed, except in that remark of Archie's
about her collar, and that did not matter.

'Poor little woman  she looks very happy!'
observed Mrs, Challoner benevolently, as
Mattie gathered up her spoils, and went out
of the room, accompanied by Dulce. * She
is such a good little soul, and so amiable,
that it is a pity Mr. Drummond is always
finding fault with her. It spoils him, somehow
; and I am sure she bears it very well.'
She spoke to Nan, for her nephew seemed
engrossed with tying up Laddie's front paw
with his handkerchief.

I am afraid, from what she says, they all
snub her at home,' returned Nan. ' It seems
Grace is the favourite ; but you know,
mother, Mattie is just a little tiresome and
awkward at times.'

Yes ; but lie is very much improved.
And I must say her temper is of the sweetest ;
for she never bears her brother any malice.'
But at that moment Mattie re-entered the
room ; and Sir Harry, releasing Laddie, proceeded,
as in duty bound, to escort her to the
Vicarage.

SIR HARRY BIDES HIS TIME.

HILLIS might have spared herself
that Httle outburst to which she
had given vent on the day of her
cousin's arrivaL For in spite of the lordly
way in which he had claimed his prerogative
as the only male Challoner, Sir Harry took
no further steps to interfere with her liberty ;
indeed, as the days and even the weeks passed
away and nothing particular happened in
them, she was even a little disappointed.

For it is one thing to foster heroic intentions,
but quite another when one has no
choice in the matter. The heroism seemed
lost somehow when no one took the trouble
to combat her resolution. Phillis began to

tire of her work  nay, more, to feel positive
disgust at it. The merry evenings gave hera
distaste for her morning labours, and the
daylight seemed sometimes as though it would
never fade into dark, so as to give her an excuse
for folding up her work.

These fits of impatience were intermittent,
and she spoke of them to no one ; in other
respects the new cousin brought a great deal
of brightness and pleasure into their daily
life.

They all grew very fond of him. Mrs.
Challoner, indeed, was soon heard to say that
she almost loved him like a son, a speech
that reached Dick's ears by-and-by, and made
him excessively angry. ' I should like to
kick that fellow,' he growled, as he read the
Words. But then Dick never liked interlopers.
He had conceived a hatred of Mr.
Drummond on the spot. Sir Harry took up
his quarters at the same hotel where Dick
and his father had spent that one dreary
evening. He gave lavish orders, and excited
a great deal of attention and talk by his careless
munificence. Without being positively
extravagant, he had a free-handed way of

spending his money ; as lie often said, ' lie
liked to see things comfortable about him.'
And as his notions of comfort were somewhat
expensive, his host soon conceived a great
respect for him ; all the more that he gave
himself no airs, never talked about his wealth
except to his cousins, and treated his title as
though it were not the slightest consequence
to himself or anyone else ; indeed, he was
decidedly modest in all matters pertaining to
himself.

But being a generous soul, he loved to give.
Every few days he went up to London, and
he never returned without bringing gifts to
the Friary. Dulce, who was from the first
his chief favourite, revelled in French bonbons
; hampers of wine, of choice game, or
fruit from Covent Garden, filled the tiny larder
to overflowing. Silks and ribbons, and odds
and ends of female finely, were sent down
from Marshall and Snelgrove's, or Swan and
Edgar's. In vain Mrs. Challoner implored
him not to spoil the girls, who had never
had so many pretty things in their lives,
and hardly knew what to do with them. Sir
Harry would not deny himself this pleasure ;

AOL. III. 51

and lie came up evening after evening, overflowing
with health and spirits, to join the
family circle in the small parlour, and enliven
them with his stories of colonial life.

People began to talk about him. He was
too big and too prominent a figure to pass
unnoticed in Hadleigh. The Challoners and
their odd ways, and their cousin the baronet,
who was a millionnaire and unmarried, were
canvassed in many a drawing-room. ' We
always knew they were not just " nobodies' '
as one young lady observed ; and another remarked
a little scornfully * that she supposed
Sir Hey Challoner would put a stop to
all that ridiculous dressmaking now.' But
when they found that Nan and Phillis went
about as usual, taking orders and fitting on
dresses, their astonishment knew no bounds.

Sir Harry watched them with a secret
chuckle. ' He must put a stop to all that
presently,' he said ; but just at first it amused
him to see it all. ' It was so pretty and
plucky of them,' he thought.

He would saunter into the v/ork-room in
the morning, and watch them for an hour together
as he sat and talked to them. After

the first they never minded him, and his
presence made no difference to them. Nan
measured and cut-out, and consulted PhilHs
in her difficulties as usual. Dulce sang over
her sewing-machine, and Phillis went from
one to the other with a grave, intent face.
Sometimes she would speak petulantly to
him, and bade him not whistle or tease
Laddie ; but that was when one of her fits of
impatience was on her. She was generally
gracious to him, and made him welcome.

When he was tired of sitting quiet he
would take refuge with Aunt Catherine in
her little parlour, or go into the Vicarage
for a chat with Mattie and her brother ; he
was becoming very intimate there. Sometimes,
but not often, he would call at the
White House ; but though the Cheyness liked
him, and Magdalene was amused at his simplicity,
there was not much in common between
them.

He had taken a liking to Colonel Middleton
and his daughter, and would have found his
way to Brooklyn over and over again, only
the Colonel gave him no encouragement.
They had met accidentally in the grounds of

512

the White House, and Mr. Cheyne had introduced
them to each other ; but the Colonel
bore himself very stiffly on that occasion, and
ever after when they met on the Parade and
in the reading-room. In his heart he was
secretly attracted by Sir Harry's blunt ways
and honest face ; but he was a cousin of
those Challoners, and intimacy was not to be
desired ; so their intercourse was limited to a
brief word or two.

'Your father does not want to know me,'
he said once in his outspoken way to Miss
Middleton, when they met at the very gate of
Brooklyn, and she had asked him with some
little hesitation if he were coming in. ' It is
a pity,' he added regretfully, ' for I have taken
a fancy to him ; he seems a downright good
sort, and we agree in politics.'

Elizabeth blushed ; for once her courtesy
and love of truth were sadly at variance.

He does like you very much, Sir Harry,'
she said ; and then she hesitated.

Only my cousins sew gowns,' he returned,
with a twinkle of amusement in his eyes, ' so he
must not encourage me  eh. Miss Middleton ?
as we are all in the same boat. Well, we must

allow for prejudice. By and-by we will alter
all that '/ and then he gave her a good-natured
nod, and sauntered away to tell his old friend
Mattie all about it ; for he had a kindly feeling
towards the little woman, and made her his
confidante on these occasions.

Phillis still called him Alcides, to his endless
mystification ; but she privately wondered when
his labours were to begin. After that first
afternoon he did not speak much of his future
intentions ; indeed, he was a little reserved
with the girls, considering their intimacy, but
to his aunt he was less reticent.

*Do you know. Aunt Catherine,' he said
one day to her, ' that that old house of yours
Glen Cottage, is it not ?  will soon be in the
market ? Ibbetson wants to get off the
remainder of the lease.'

Mrs. Challoner leant back in her chair
and put down her knitting.

Are you sure, Harry ? Then Adelaide was
right ; she told me in her last letter that
Mrs. Ibbetson's health was so bad that they
thought of wintering at Haeres, and that there
was some talk of giving up the house.'

Oh yes, it is true,' he returned carelessly ;

Ibbetson told me so himself. It is a pretty
little place enough, and they have done a
good deal to it, even in a few months ; they
want to get off the lease, and rid themselves
of the furniture, which seems to be all new.
It appears they have had some money left
them unexpectedly ; and now Mrs. Ibbetson 's
health is so bad, he wants to try travelling,
and thinks it a great pity to be hampered
with a house at present. I should say
the poor little woman is in a bad way, myself.'


Dear me, how sad ! And they have been
married so short a time  not more than six
months. She comes of a weakly stock, I
fear. I always said she looked consumptive,
poor thing ! Dear little Glen Cottage ! and
to think it will change hands so soon
again ! '

You seem fond of it. Aunt Catherine,' for
her tone was full of regret.

My dear,' she answered seriously, ' I
always loved that cottage so ! The drawing-room
and the garden were just to my taste ;
and then the girls were so happy there.'

Would you not like a grander house to

live in ?' he asked, in the same indifferent
tone. ' I do not think it is half good enough
for you and the girls.'

Mrs. Challoner opened her eyes rather
widely at this ; but his voice gave her no
clue to his real meaning, and she thought it
was just his joking way with her.

sit would seem a palace after this!' she
returned, with a sigh. ' Somehow I never
cared for great big houses, they are so much
expense to keep up ; and when one has not a
man in the house '

Why, you have me, xiunt Catherine !'
speaking up rather briskly.

Yes, my dear ; and jon are a great comfort
to us all. It is so nice to have some one
to consult ; and, though I would not say so
to Nan for the world, Dick is so young, I
never could consult him.'

By-the-bye, that reminds me I must have
a look at that young fellow,' returned her
nephew. ' Let me see, the Oxford term is
over, and he will be home again ; suppose I
run over to Oldfield  it is no distance from
town  and leave my card on Mr. Mayne
senior ?'

You, Harry !' and Mrs. Challoner looked
quite taken aback at the proposition.

Well,' lie remarked candidly, ' I think it
is about time something was done ; Nan
looks awfully serious sometimes. What is
the good of being the head of one's family,
if one is not to settle an affair like that ? I
don't feel inclined to put up with any more
nonsense in that quarter, I can tell you that,
Aunt Catherine.'

But, Harry '  growing visibly alarmed 
you do not know Mr. Mayne ; he can make
himself so excessively disagreeable.'

 So can most men when they like.'

Yes ; but not exactly in that way. I
believe he is really very fond of Dick ; but
he wants to order his life in his own way, and
no young man will stand that.'

No, by Jove ! that is rather too strong
for a fellow. I should say Master Dick could
not put up with that.'

It seems mj poor Nan is not good enough
for his son, just because she has no money,
and has been obliged to make herself useful.
Does it not seem hard, Harry ?  my beautiful
Nan ! And the Maynes are just nobodies

; why, Mr. Mayne's father was only a
shopkeeper in a very small way  and his
wife's family was no better !'

Well, you must not expect me to understand
all that replied her nephew, in a
puzzled tone. ' In the colonies, we did not
think much about that sort of thing ; it
would not have done there to inquire too
narrowly into a man's antecedents. I knew
capital fellows whose fathers had been
butchers, and bakers, and candlestick-makers ;
and, bless me ! what does it matter if the
fellow is all right himself ?' he finished ; for
the last Challoner was a decided Eadical.

But Mrs. Challoner, who was mildly
obstinate in such matters, would not yield
her point.

*You would think differently if you had
been educated at Eton. In England, it is
necessary to discriminate among one's acquaintances.
I find no fault with Dick  he
is as nice and gentlemanly as possible ; but
his father has not got his good-breeding 
possibly he had not his advantages. But it
is they  the Maynes  who would be honoured
by an alliance with one of my daughters ;'

and Mrs. Challoner raised lier head and drew
herself up with such queenly dignity, that
Sir Harry dare not argue the point.

'Oh yes; I see he returned hastily.
Well, I shall let him know what you think.
You need not be afraid I shall lower your
dignity. Aunt Catherine. I meant to be
rather high and mighty myself  that is, if I
could manage it ;' and he broke into one of
his huge laughs.

Mrs. Challoner was very fond of her
nephew ; but she was not a clever woman,
and she did not always understand his hints.
When they were alone together, he was perpetually
making this sort of remarks to her
in a half-serious, half-joking way ; eliciting
her opinions consulting her tastes, with a
view to his future plans.

With the girls he was provokingly reticent.
Phillis and Dulce used to catechize him sometimes
; but his replies were always evasive.

Do you know, Harry,' Phillis said to him
once very gravely, ' I think you are leading
a dreadfully idle life ? You do nothing
absolutely all day but walk to and fro between
the hotel and the Friary.'

Come now,' retorted her cousin, in an
injured tone, ' I call that confoundedly hard
on a fellow who has come all these thousands
of miles just to cultivate his relations and
enjoy a little relaxation. Have I not worked
hard enough all my life to earn a holiday
now ?'

Oh yes,' she returned provokingly, ' we
all know how hard you have worked ; but,
all the same, it does not do to play at idleness
too long. You are very much improved,
Harry. Your tailor has done wonders for
you ; and I should not be ashamed to walk
down Bond Street with you any afternoon,
though the people do stare, because you are
so big. But don't you think it is time to
settle down ? You might take rooms somewhere.
Lord Fitzroy knows of some capital
ones in Sackville Street  Algae Burgoyne
had them.'

Well, no, thank you, Philos ; I don't
think I shall go in for rooms.'

Well, then, a house  you know you are
so excessively rich, Harry,' drawling out her
words in imitation of his rather slow pronunciation.


Oil, of course I shall take a house ; but
there is plenty of time for that

And when she pressed him somewhat
eagerly to tell her in what neighbourhood he
meant to live, he only shrugged his shoulders,
and remarked carelessly that he would
have a look round at all sorts of places by-and-by.


But do you mean to take a house and
live all alone T asked Dulce. ' Won't you
find it rather dull ?'

What's a fellow to do T replied her
cousin enigmatically. ' I suppose Aunt
Catherine will not undertake the care of me ?
I am too big, as you call it, for a houseful
of women !'

Well, yes ; perhaps you are,' she replied,
contemplating him thoughtfully. * We should
not know quite what to do with you

I wish I could get rid of a few of my
superfluous inches,' he remarked dolorously ;
for people seem to find me sadly in the way
sometimes.'

But Dulce said kindly :

Oh no, Harry ; we never find you in the
way  do we, mammie ? We should be dreadfully

dull without you now. I can hear you
whistling a quarter of a mile off, and it sounds
so cheerful. If there were only a house big
enough for you next door, that would do
nicely.'

Oh, I dare say I shall not be far off  shall
I, Aunt Catherine T for to his aunt's utter
bewilderment he had established a sort of
confidence between them, and expected her to
understand all his vague hints. ' You will
not speak about this to the girls ; this is just
between you and me,' he would say to her,
when sometimes she had not a notion what he
meant.

I don't understand jou, Harry,' she said
once. ' Why did you stop me just now when
I was going to tell PhilHs about the Ibbetsons
leaving Glen Cottage ? She would have been
so interested

 You must keep that to yourself a little
while. Aunt Catherine ; it will be such a surprise
to the girls, you know. Did I tell you
about the new conservatory Ibbetson has
built ? It leads out of the drawing-room,
and improves the room wonderfully, they say.'

My dear Harry ! what an expense !

That is just what Mr. Mayne was always
wanting lis to do ; and Nan was so fond of
flowers. It was just what the room needed
to make it perfect.' And Mrs. Challoner
folded her hands, with a sigh at the remembrance
of the house she had loved so dearly.

They say Gilsbank is for sale,' remarked
her nephew rather suddenly after
this.

What ! Gilsbank, where old Admiral Hawkins
lived ? Nan saw the announcement of
his death the other day, and she said then the
place would soon be put up for sale. Poor
old man ! He was a martyr to gout.'

I had a look at it the other day,' he replied
coolly. ' Why, it is not a hundred
yards from your old cottage. There is a tidy
bit of land, and the house is not so bad, only
it wants doing up ; but the furniture, that is
for sale too, is very old-fashioned and shabby.'

Are you thinking of it for yourself?'
asked his aunt in surprise. * Why, Gilsbank
is a large place ; it would never do for a single
man. You would find the rooms Phillis proposed
far handier.'

Why, Aunt Catherine !' in a tone of strong

remonstrance. ' You don't mean to condemn
me to a life of single blessedness because of
my size T

Oh, Harry, of course not ! My dear boy,
what an idea !'

And some one may be found in time
who could put up even with red hair

Oh yes ; that need not be an obstacle.
But she looked at him with vague alarm.
Of whom could he be thinking ?

He caught her expression, and threw back
his head with one of his merry laughs.

Oh no, Aunt Catherine ; you need not be
afraid. I am not going to make love to one
of my cousins; I knew your views on the
subject, and that would not suit my book at
all. I am quite on your side there.'

Surely you will tell me, my dear, if you
are serious ?'

Oh yes, when I have anything to tell ;
but I think I will have a good look round
first.' And then, of his own accord, he
changed the subject. He was a little sparing
of his hints after that, even to his aunt.

It was shortly after this that he came into
the Friary one evening and electrified his

cousins by two pieces of news. He had just
called at the Vicarage, he said ; but he had not
gone in, for Miss Mattie had run downstairs
in a great bustle to tell him her sister Grace
had just arrived. Her brother had been
down to Leeds and brought her up with him.
Phillis put down her work ; her face had become
suddenly rather pale.

Grace has come,' she half whispered to
herself. And then she added aloud : ' Poor
Mattie will be glad, and sorry too ! She will
like to have her sister with her for the New
Year ; but in a few weeks she will have to
pack up her own things and go home. And
she was only saying the other day that she
has never been so happy in her life as she
has been here.'

Why can't she stay, then ?' asked Sir
Harry, rather abruptly. ' I don't hold with
people making themselves miserable for
nothing ; that does not belong to my creed.'

Oh, poor Mattie has not a choice in the
matter,' returned Nan, who had grown very
fond of their little neighbour. ' Though she
is thirty, she must still do as other people
bid her. They cannot both be spared from

home  at least, I believe not  and so lier
mother has recalled her.'

Oh, but that is nonsense !' replied Sir
Harry, rather crossly for him. ' Girls are
spared well enough when they are married.
And I thought the Drummondss were not
well off  did not Phillis tell me so T

'They are very badly off; but then, you
see, Mr. Drummond does not want two sisters
to take care of his house ; and though he tries
to be good to Mattie, he is not so fond of her
as he is of his sister Grace ; and they have
always planned to live together, and so poor
Mattie has to go.'

Yes, and I must say I am sorry for the
poor little woman,' observed Mrs. Challoner.
There is a large family of girls and boys  I
think Mr. Drummond told us he had seven
sisters, and Mattie seems left out in the cold
amongst them all ; they laugh at her oddities,
and quiz her most unmercifully  even Mr.
Drummond does, and Nan scolds him for it ;
but he has not been so bad lately. It is
rather hard that none of them seem to want
her.'

VOL. III. 52

you forget Grace is very good to her
mother broke in Phillis, somewhat eagerly.
Mattie always says so

'By-the-bye, I must have a look at this
paragon. Is not her name amongst those
in my pocket-book T returned her cousin
Wickedly. ' I saw Miss Sartoris at Oldfield
that day, and she was too grand for my taste ;
why, a fellow would never dare to speak to
her. I have scored that one off the list,
Philos.'

My dears, what have you been saying to
Harry T

Oh, nothing, mammie !' returned Dulce
hastily, fearing her mother would be shocked.
Phillis was only in her nonsense-mood ; but
Harry is such a goose, and will take things
seriously. I wish you would let me have
your pocket-book a moment, and I would tear
out the page ;' but Sir Harry returned it safely
to his pocket.

What was your other piece of news T
asked Nan in her quiet voice, when all this
chatter had subsided.

Oh, I had almost forgotten it myself! only

Miss Middleton charged me to tell you *' Son
Hammond " has arrived by the P. and 0.
Steamer the Cerberus, and she and her father
were just starting for Southampton to meet
him.'

522

COME, NOW, I CALL THAT HARD.'

HILLIS was unusually silent during
the remainder of the evening ;
but, as she bade Nan good-night
 at the door of her little room, she lingered a
moment, shading the flame of her candle with
her hand.

Do you think Mattie will bring her sister
round to see us tomorrow ?' she asked, in a
very low voice.

Oh yes  I am sure I hope so,' returned
Nan sleepily, not noticing the restrained
eagerness of Phillis's manner. * We can
hardly call first, under our present circumstances.
Mr. Drummond knows that ;' and
Phillis withdrew, as though she were satisfied
with the answer.

Nothing more was said on the subject ;
and they settled themselves to their work
as usual on the following morning : Dulce
chattering and singing snatches of songs 
for she was a most merry little soul ; Nan
cheerful and ready for conversation with anyone
; but Phillis withdrew herself to the
farthest window, and stitched away in grave
silence. And, seeing such was her mood, her
sisters wisely forbore to disturb her.

At twelve o'clock the gate-bell sounded,
and Dulce, who hailed any interruption as a
joyful reprieve, announced delightedly that
Mattie and a tall young lady were coming up
the flagged walk ; and, in an instant, Phillis's
work lay untouched on her lap.

Are you all here ? Oh dear, I am so
glad !' exclaimed Mattie, bustling into the
room with a radiant face.  I have brought
Grace to see you  she arrived last night;'
and in a moment the young stranger was
surrounded and welcomed most cordially.

Phillis looked at her curiously for a
moment ; indeed, during the whole visit her
eyes rested upon Grace's face from time to
time as though she were studying her. She

had heard so much of this girl that she had
ahiiost feared to be disappointed in her ; but
every moment her interest increased.

Grace Drummond was not a pretty girl.
With the exception of Isabel and the boys,
the Drummond family had not the slightest
pretension to beauty ; but she was fair and
tranquil-looking, and her expression was
gentle and full of character. She had very
soft clear eyes, with a trace of sadness in
them ; but her lips were thin  like her
mother's  and closed firmly. And the chin
was a little massively cut for a woman.

In looking at the lower part of this girl's
face, a keen observer would read the tenacity
of a strong will ; but the eyes had the
appealing softness that one sees in some
dumb creature.

They won Phillis at once. After the first
moment, her reserved manner thawed, and
became gracious ; and, before half an hour
had passed, she and Grace were talking as
though they had known each other all their
life.

Nan watched them smilingly as she chatted
with Mattie ; she knew her sister was fastidious

in lier likings, and that lie did not
take to people easily. Phillis was pleasant
to all her friends and acquaintances ; but she
was rarely intimate with them, as Nan and
Dulce were wont to be. She held her head
a little high, as though she felt her own
superiority.

Phillis is very amusing, and clever ; hut
one does not know her as well as Nan
and Dulce,* even Carrie Paine had been
heard to say ; and certainly Phillis had
never talked to Carrie as she did to this
stranger.

Grace was just as much charmed on her
side. On her return, she delighted and yet
pained her brother by her warm praises of
his favourites.

Oh, Archie !' she exclaimed, as they sat
at luncheon in the old wainscoted diningroom
at the Vicarage ; ' yoM were quite right
in saying the Challoners were unlike any
other girls. They are all three so nice and
pretty ; but the second one  Miss Phillis  is
most to my taste.'

Archie checked an involuntary exclamation,
but Mattie covered it.

'Dear me, Grace!' she observed innocently
; ' I rather wonder at your saying
that. Nan is by far the prettiest  is she
not, Archie ? Her complexion and colouring
are perfect.'

Oh yes ! If you are talking of mere
looks, I cannot dispute that,' returned Grace,
a little impatiently ; * but, in my opinion,
there is far more in her sister's face  she has
the beauty of expression which is far higher
than that of form or colouring. I should
say she has far more character than either
of them.'

They are none of them wanting in that,'
replied Archie, breaking up his bread
absently.

No ; that's just what I say  they are
perfectly unlike other girls. They are so
fresh, and simple, and unconscious, that it is
quite a pleasure to be with them ; but if I
were to choose a friend from among them, I
should certainly select Miss Phillis.' And to
this her brother made no reply.

They are all so pleased about Tuesday,'
interrupted Mattie, at this point. ' Nan was
so interested and amused about my grand

tea-party, as she called it. They have all
promised to come, only Mrs. Challoner's cold
will not allow her to go out this severe weather.
And then we met Sir Harry, and I introduced
him to Grace, and he will he delighted to
come too. I wish you would let me ask
Miss Middleton and her brother, Archie ;
and then we should be such a nice little
party.'

How can you be so absurd, Mattie !' returned
Archie, with a touch of his old
irritability. ' A nice confusion you would
make, if you were left to arrange things !
You know the Colonel's one object in life is
to prevent his son from having any intercourse
with the Challoners ; and you would
ask him to meet them the first evening after
his arrival in the place.'

Is the father so narrow in his prejudices
as that ?' asked Grace, who had quite forgotten
her own shocked feelings when she
first heard that Archie was visiting a family
of dressmakers on equal terms.

Oh dear! I forgot,' sighed Mattie, taking
her brother's blame meekly as usual. ' How
very stupid of me ! But would you not like

the Cheyness or the Lashes invited, Archie ?
Grace ought to be introduced to some of the
best people

You may leave Grace to me returned
her brother somewhat haughtily ; * I will
take care of her introductions. As for your
tea-party, Mattie, I shall be much obliged if
you will keep it within its first limits  just
the Challengers and Sir Harry. If anyone
be asked, it ought to be Noel Frere ; he has
rather a dull time of it, living alone in
lodgings '  the Eev. Noel Frere being a
college chum of Archie's, who had comedown
to Hadleigh to recruit himself by a
month or two's idleness. * Perhaps we had
better have him, as there will be so many
ladies.'

Oh yes  of course ! He is so nice and
clever,' observed Grace, not noticing the
shade on Mattie's face. ' How pleased you
must be to have him staying here so long,
Archie !  you two were always such friends.'

He comes nearly every evening,' returned
Mattie disconsolately. ' He may suit you,
Grace, because you are clever yourself; but
I am dreadfully afraid of him  he is so dry

and sarcastic. Must lie really be asked for
Tuesday, Archie ?'

Yes, indeed ; you ought to have thought
of him first. I am sorry for your bad taste,
Mattie, if you do not like Frere ; he is a
splendid fellow, though terribly delicate, I
fear. Now, Gracie, if we have finished
luncheon, I should like you to put on your
wraps, and I will show you some of my
favourite haunts ; and perhaps we shall meet
Frere.'

Grace hesitated for a moment. She thought
Archie would have included Mattie in his
invitation ; but he did nothing of the kind,
and she knew him too well to suggest such a
thing.

Good-bye, Mattie dear. I hope you will
have some tea ready for us when wee come
back,' she said, kissing her sister affectionately
; but they neither of them noticed the
pained wistfulness of Mattie's look as the
door closed upon them.

They were going out without her ; and on
Grace's first day, too. Archie was going to
show her the church, and the schools, and
the model cottages where his favourite old

women lived  all those places that Mattie
had visited and learned to love during the
eight months she had lived with her brother.
In a few weeks she must say good-bye to
them all, and go back to the dull old house
at Leeds, to be scolded by her mother for her
awkward ways, and to be laughed at and
teazed by her brothers and sisters. Archie
was bad enough sometimes, but then he was
Archie, and had a right to his bad humours ;
but with the boys and girls it was less endurable.
It was ' Oh, you stupid old Matt !
Of course it was all your fault ;' or, ' Mattie,
you goose !' from Fred ; or, * You silly
child, Mattie !' from her father, who found
her a less amusing companion than Grace ;
and even Dottie would say, ' Oh, it is only
Mattie ; I never care if she scolds me.'

The home atmosphere was a little depressing,
Mattie thought, with a sigh, dearly
as she loved her young torments. She knew
she would find it somewhat trying after these
eight months of comparative freedom. True,
Archie had snubbed her, and kept her in
order ; but one tyrant is preferable to many.
At home, the thirty-years old Mattie was only

one of the many daughters  the old maid of
the family  the unattractive little wallflower,
who was condemned to wither unnoticed on
its stalk. Here, in her brother's Vicarage,
she had been a person of consequence, whom
only the master of the house presumed to
snub.

The maids liked their good-natured mistress,
who never found fault with them, and
was so bustling and clever a little housekeeper.
The poor people and the school-children
liked Mattie too.  Our Miss
Drummond,' they called her for a long time,
rather to Grace's discomfiture. Ah, she is
a rare one, when a body is low !' as old
Goody Saunders once said.

And Ai'chie's friends respected the little
woman, in spite of her crudities and decidedly
odd ways. Miss Middleton and the Challoners
were quite fond of her ; so no wonder Mattie
grew low at the thought of leaving her
friends.

Grace had come to take her place. Nevertheless,
she had welcomed her on the previous
evening with the utmost cheerfulness and unselfishness.
She had shown her the house 

she had introduced her to the Challoners 
she had overwhelmed her with a thousand
little attentions ; and Grace had not been ungrateful.


I am afraid this is hard for you, Mattie
Grace had said to her, as the sisters were unpacking
late the previous night. ' I ought
not to be so happy to come, when I know I
am turning you out ;' and Mattie had winked
away a tear, and answered quite cheerily :

Oh no, Grace ; you must not feel that.
I have had a nice time, and enjoyed myself
so much with dear Archie, and now it is
your turn ; and, you know, he has always
wanted you from the first.'

'Poor dear fellow!' murmured Grace;
but he looks thin, Mattie. Perhaps I ought
to be here, as lie wants me ; but I shall
never keep his house as beautifully as you
have done. Mother would be astonished, if
she saw it ;' and this piece of well-deserved
praise went far to console Mattie that night.

But she began to feel just a little sore at
breakfast-time. Once or twice, Archie decidedly
ignored her, and turned to Grace ; he
even brought her his gloves to mend, though

Mattie had been his faithful mender all these
months.

Come into the study, and we will have a
talk, Gracie,' he had said; and, as Grace
had involuntarily waited for her sister to accompany
them, he had added hastily : ' Oh,
Mattie is always busy at this time with
butchers and bakers ! Come along, Grace ;'
and, though Mattie had no such business on
her hands, she dare not join them.

It was only when a parish meeting called
the young Yicar away that Mattie bethought
herself of the Challoners.
- Poor Mattie ! Low spirits were not much
in her line. She had never thought enough
of herself to indulge in the luxury of wounded
susceptibility. The atmosphere that surrounded
her had been too rough and bracing
for that ; but nevertheless this afternoon she
longed to indulge in a good cry. Happily,
however, before the first tear had began to
redden her eyelids  indeed, she had hardly
got her mouth into the proper pucker  a
vigorous pull at the bell warned her of an impending
visitor, and immediately afterwards
Sir Harry marched into the room, looking

ruddier than ever with the coal air and exercise,
his warm colouring kindling a glow in
the room.

His heavy footsteps shook the old flooring
of the Vicarage ; but as he greeted Mattie he
looked round him as though somewhat surprised
to find her alone.

How do you do, Miss Mattie ? "Why,
what have you done with your sister ?' he
asked, in rather a disappointed tone. ' I came
to have a chat with you both.'

Another little sting for Mattie ; he had only
come to see Grace.

She has gone out with Archie,' she returned,
in a subdued voice. ' He is showing
her the church and the schools.'

I was up at the Friary just now,' he said
carelessly, ' and they were all talking about
your sister, praising her up to the skies.
What an odd capacity women have for falling
in love with each other at first sight ! Phillis
especially seemed very far gone. So I told
them I would just come and have a good look
at this paragon ; one cannot judge of a person
in a hat and veil.'

I am sure you will like Grace replied

Mattie, reviving a little at the idea of her
sister's perfections. ' She is not pretty,
exactly, though Archie and I think her so ;
but she is so nice and clever. Oh, you should
hear those two talk ! it is perfectly wonderful
to listen to them !'

It strikes me you are a little left out in
the cold, aren't you, Miss Mattie ?' asked Sir
Harry, with one of his shrewd good-humoured
looks.  Why did you not go out with
them ?'

Oh, Archie never wants me when he has
Grace,' answered Mattie, with a sudden pang
at the truthfulness of this speech. ' They
have always been so much to each other, those
two.'

He would want you fast enough if Miss
Grace  is that not her name ?  were to
marry, and leave him to shift for himself,'
was the somewhat matter-of-fact answer.

But Mattie shook her head at this with a
faint smile.

Grace will never marry. She would not
leave Archie.'

Oh, but that is nonsense, do you know 
sheer nonsense ! Many girls talk like that,

VOL. III. 53

but they change their mind in the end. Why,
the parson may marry himself. You don't
suppose a good-looking fellow like that intends
to be an old bachelor ? And then what will
Miss Grace do ?'

I don't know. I am afraid she will miss
him dreadfully.'

Oh, but she will get over it all right. It
does not do to make a fuss over those sort of
things. Sentimentality between brothers and
sisters is all very well in its v/ay, but it won't
hold against a wife's or husband's claims. I
never had any myself, so I don't know ; but I
find it precious lonely without them. That is
why I have adopted my cousins. A man
must care for some one.'

 Yes, indeed,' echoed Mattie, with a sigh.
* I am afraid your people do not use you
very well. Miss Mattie,' he went on, with
cheerful sympathy that was quite a cordial in
its way. ' You look a bit down this afternoon
; a fellow would call it in the blues,
and he would be thinking of a cigar and
brandy-and-soda. What a pity women
don't smoke ! it is no end soothing to the
spirits !' !

We have got afternoon tea,' returned
Mattie, beginning to smile at this.

Well, why don't you ring and order some ?'
he replied quite seriously! ' Do, please. Miss
Mattie, if it will put a little heart into you.
Why, I should like a cup myself uncommonly.
There never was such a fellow for afternoon
tea.' And then Mattie did ring the bell, and
Sir Harry having stirred the fire into a cheerful
blaze, and the little brass kettle beginning
to sing cheerily on its trivet, things soon
looked more comfortable.

Now you are all right,' he remarked presently.
' You look quite a different sort of
body now. When I first came in you reminded
me of Cinderella in a brown dress,
sitting all alone, by a very black fire, I do
believe you were on the verge of crying  now
weren't you, Miss Mattie ?' And Mattie,
with much shame, owned to the impeachment.

And what was it all about, eh ?' he asked,
with such a coaxing peremptoriness that Mattie
confessed that she was rather dull at the
thought that nobody wanted her, and that she
must go home ; and on being further pressed
and questioned, out it all came : Mattie 's

532

'IS.

shortcomings, her stupid ways, and the provocation
she offered to home-criticism. Sir
Harry listened and laughed, and every now
and then threw in a jesting remark ; but so
encouraging was his manner and so evident
his interest, that Mattie found herself talking
as she had never done to anyone but Miss
Middleton. Before she had finished Sir
Harry knew all about the household in
Lowder Street, and had formed a tolerable
estimate of every member of the family  the
depressed father, and careworn and somewhat
stern mother ; the boys, clever and handsome
and flippant ; the girls in all stages of awkwardness
; and the quiet, talented Grace, who
was everyone's right hand, and who had come
to the Vicarage to dispossess Mattie.

Come, now, I call that hard ; I do, upon
my word !' he repeated more than once at the
end of Mattie's little narrative. ' Women
have a lot put upon them. I dare say if I
had had sisters I should have bullied them
sometimes. Men are awful tyrants, aren't
they. Miss Mattie ?'

Mattie took this literally.

I do not think you would be a tyrant, Sir

Harry she returned simply, and then wondered
why he suddenly coloured up to the
roots of his hair.

Oh, there is no knowing,' he replied, in
an embarrassed tone. ' I have never had
anyone to bully; I think I shall try my
hand on Dulce, only she is such a little spitfire.
Well, I must be going,' he went on,
straightening himself. 'By-the-bye, I shall
not see you again until Tuesday; I have to
run over to Oldfield about a lot of business I
have in hand. Do you know Oldfield ?'

Oh no ; but Nan and Phillis have described
it so often, that I seem as though I have been
there.'

It is a nicest place, and I am half-inclined
to settle there myself; there is a house going
that would just suit me.'

Mattie's face lengthened ; she did not like
the idea of losing Sir Harry, he had been so
good-natured and kind to her.

One would never see you if you live at
Oldfield,' she said, a little sorrowfully; and
again Sir Harry looked embarrassed.

Oh, but you will be at Leeds, so it won't
make much difference. But I do not want to

be parted from Aunt Catherine and the girls ;
there is a great deal to arrange. Perhaps,
before you go, I shall be able to tell you that
things are settled. Anyhow, good-bye till
Tuesday;' and then he nodded to her in a
friendly way, and Mattie returned to her
fireplace refreshed and comforted.

Archie and Grace came in presently,
bringing another current of cold air with
them ; they both looked bright and happy,
as though they had enjoyed their walk.
Grace's pale cheeks had the loveliest tinge
in them.

Have we left you too long alone, Mattie
dear ?' she asked, as she took the cup of tea
offered her.  How cosy this dear old room
looks; and what a beautiful fire !'

Sir Harry has been emptying the coal-scuttle
!' laughed Mattie. ' What a pity you
missed him, Grace ! he has been so amusing.'

Grace smiled incredulously.

Why, that great big Sir Harry Challoner
whom you introduced this morning ! my dear
Mattie, I am sure he could never be amusing.
I was not greatly prepossessed with him.'

Mattie's geese are all swans. I don't

think much of him myself broke in Archie, ina
satirical voice. * I like quality better than
quantity. He is so big, I am sure his brains
must suffer by comparison. Now, there is
Frere.'

Oh yes, we met Mr. Frere !' interrupted
Grace eagerly ;  and Archie and he had such
a talk ; it was delightful only to listen to it.
I liked his ideas on ecclesiastical architecture,
Archie;' and then followed an animated discussion
between the sister and brother, about
a book of Ruskin's that they had both been
reading. Mattie tried to follow them; but
she had not read Ruskin, and they soon left
her miles behind  indeed, after the first few
minutes they seemed to have forgotten her
existence ; but somehow Mattie did not feel
so forlorn as usual.

Come, now, I call that hard,' a sympathizing
voice seemed to say in her ear. Sir
Harry's genial presence, his blunt, kindly
speeches, had done Mattie good ; he had called
her Cinderella, and made the fire blaze for
her, and had coaxed her in quite a brotherly
manner to tell him her little troubles, and
Mattie felt very grateful to him.

So she stared into the fire wistful and
happy while the others talked over her head,
and quite started when she heard her own
name.

'We are forgetting Mattie ; all this must
be so dull for her,' Grace was saying, as she
touched her shoulder caressingly. ' Come
upstairs with me, dear ; we can have a chat
while we get ready for dinner. You must
not let your friends make themselves so much
at home, you extravagant child, for your fire is
far too large for comfort ;' but Mattie turned
away from it reluctantly as she followed her
sister out of the room.

*I WILL WRITE NO SUCH LETTER.'

HE new year lead not opened very
auspiciously at Longmead, neither
had the Christmas festivities been
great.

Dick on his first return home had put on a
great appearance of cheerfulness, and had
carried himself much as usual ; but Mr.
Mayne had been glum, decidedly glum, and
Mrs. Mayne had found it difficult to adjust
the balance of her sympathy between Dick's
voluble quicksilver on the one hand, and her
husband's dead weight of ill-humour on the
other.

The truth was, Mr. Mayne's sharp eyes had
discerned from the first moment of his son's

entrance into the lions that there was no
change in his purpose.

To an outsider, Dick's behaviour to his
father was as nice as possible. He still kept
up his old jokes, rallying him on his matutinal
activity, and saying a word about the
early worm '  ' so bad for the worm, poor
beggar observed Dick. And he sauntered
after him into the poultry-yard, and had a
great deal to say about some Spanish fowls
that had been lately imported into Longmead,
and that were great sources of pride to Mr.
Mayne.

Dick paid a great deal of dutiful attention
to his father's hobbies ; he put on his thickest
boots every day after luncheon, that his father
might enjoy the long walks in which he delighted.
Dick used to sally forth whistling
to his dogs when they went down Sandy
Lane ; he was careful to pause where the four
roads met, that Mr. Mayne might enjoy his
favourite view. In all these things Dick's
behaviour was perfect ; nevertheless, on their
return from one of these walks they each had
a secret grievance to pour into Mrs. Mayne 's
ear.

Dick's turn would come first.

Mother,' he would say, as he lounged into
the room, where she sat knitting by the firelight
and thinking of her boy  for just now
she was heart and soul on Dick's side  and
full of yearning for the sweet girl whom he
wanted for his wife, ' I don't know how long
this sort of thing is going on, but I don't think
I can put up with it much longer

Have you not had a nice walk with your
father ?' she asked anxiously.

Oh yes ; the walk was well enough. We
had some trouble with Vigo though, for he
startled a pheasant inLordFitzroy's preserve,
and then he bolted after a hare. I had quite
a difficulty in getting him to heel.'

These walks do your father so much good,
Dick.'

That is what you always say ; but I do
not think I can stand many more of them. He
will talk of everything but the one subject,
and that he avoids like poison. I shall have
to bring him to book directly, and then there
will be no end of a row. It is not the row I
mind,' continued Dick rather ruefully ;  but I
hate putting him out, and seeing him cut up

rough. If lie would only be sensible and give
me my Away in this, there is nothing I would
not do to please him. You must talk to him ;
you must indeed, mother.' And then Mrs.
Mayne, with a sinking heart, promised that
she would do what she could.

And after that it would be her husband's
turn.

I tell you what, Bessie ; I am not satisfied
about that boy,' he remarked once, as he
came in to warm his hands before going upstairs
to dress for dinner. * I don't know
from whom he gets his obstinacy  not from
either of us, I am sure of that  but his cheerfulness
does not deceive mcc He means mischief
; I can see that plainly.'

Oh, Eichard ! And Dick has been so nice
to you ever since he came home. Why, he
has not once asked to have any of his friends
down to stay. And before this he was never
content unless we filled the house. He takes
walks with you, and is as domesticated and
quiet as possible, so different to other young-fellows,
who are always racketing about.'

That is just what bothers me,' returned
her husband crossly. ' You have no discernment,

Bessie, or you would know what I
mean. I should not care a straw if Dick
were to cram the house with young fellows ;
that sort of larking is just natural at his age.
Why, he quite pooh-poohed the idea of a
dinner-party the other night, though I planned
it for his pleasure. His mind is set on other
things, and that is why I say he is up to mischiefs


Mrs. Mayne sighed as she smoothed down
her satin dress with her plump white hands ;
but she could not gainsay the truth of this
speech  his father was right  Dick's mind
was set on other things.

I wish you would let him talk to you,'
she began timidly, remembering her promise.
Do, my dear ; for I am sure Dick is very
much in earnest.'

So am I very much in earnest,' he returned
wrathfully ; and his small eyes grew
bright and irritable. ' No, it is no use your
looking at me in that way, Bessie. I am determined
not to allow that boy to ruin his
prospects for life. He will thank me one day
for being firm ; and so will you, though you do
turn against your own husband.'

This was too much for Mrs. Mayne's
affectionate nature to bear.

Oh, Eichard, how can you talk so ? and I
have been a good wife to you all these years !'
and here the ioor woman began to sob.
You might make allowance for a mother's
feelings ; he is my boy as well as yours, and
I would cut off my right hand to make him
happy ; and I do  I do think you are very
hard upon him about Nan.'

Mr. Mayne stared at her in speechless
amazement. Bessie, his long-suffering Bessie
the wife of his bosom, over whom he had
had a right to tyrannize  even she had turned
against him, and had taken his son's part.
*Et tu. Brute!' he could have said in his
bitterness ; but his wrath was too great.

'I tell you what,' he said, rising from the
seat that was no longer restful to him, and
pointing his finger at her, ' you and your boy
together will be the death of me

Oh, Eichard, how can jou be so wicked T
 Oh, I am wicked, am I ? That is a nice

wifely speech.'

Yes, you are, when you say such things
to me !' she returned, plucking up spirit that

amazed herself afterwards. * If you do not
know when you have a good wife and son, I
am sorry for you. I say again, I think you
are making a grievous mistake, Eichard.
Dick's heart is set on the girl ; and I don't
wonder at it, a dear pretty creature like that.
And if you cross him, and set him wrong, you
will have to answer to both of us for the
consequences ;' and then she, too, rose, trembling
in every limb, and with her comely face
very much flushed. Even a worm will turn,
and Bessie Mayne had for once ventured to
speak the truth to her husband.

She had the victory that night, for he vas
too much dum foundered by her rebellion to
indulge in his usual recriminations ; he had
never imagined before that Bessie owned a
will of her own ; but he felt now, with a
pang of wounded self-love, that the younger
Pii chard had proved a formidable rival.

His wife's heart relented when she saw his
moody looks ; but he would not be reconciled
to her, in spite of her coaxing speeches.

Come, Eichard  come, my dear ! you
must not be so cross with me,' she said to
him later on that night. ' We have been

married three-and-twenty years, and have
never had a serious quarrel ; and I don't like
your black looks at me.'

Then you should not anger me by taking
that boy's part,' was his only answer ; and he
could not be induced to say anything more
conciliatory. And the poor woman went to
bed weeping.

Things were in this uncomfortable state,
when, one morning, Dick thrust his head into
the study where his father was jotting down
some household accounts ; for he managed all
such minor details himself, much to his wife's
relief.

Are you particularly busy, father ?  I
want to have a talk with you.'

Mr. Mayne looked up quickly, and his
bushy eyebrows drew together.

Well, yes, I am, Dick  most particularly
busy just now ;' for there was a look on his
son's face that made him feel disinclined for
conversation.

Oh, very well, then ; I can leave it until
after luncheon,' was the cheerful response ;
then Mr. Mayne knew that Dick was determined
to take the bull by the horns.

They went out after luncheon, taking the
dogs with them, and turning their steps in
the direction of Sandy Lane. For the first
mile, Dick said very little ; he had his eye on
Vigo, who seemed to be inclined to bolt.
But when they had reached the second milestone,
he cleared his throat ; and then Mr.
Mayne knew that his trouble was beginning.


 Well, father,' commenced Dick, *I think
it is about time we had a little serious talk
together about my future plans. Of course
I want to know if I am to go down next
term.'

I don't see we need discuss that. You
will read for your degree, of course.'

Mr. Mayne spoke fast and nervously ; but
Dick was quite cool  at least, outwardly so.

There is no ** of course " in the matter.
I can only read for my degree on one condition.'


And what is that, may I ask ?' with rising
choler in his voice.

That you will have Nan down to Longmead
; and that you and my mother sanction
our engagement.'

VOL. III. 54

Never, sir  never!' in a vehement tone.

Please don't excite yourself, father. I
think it is I who ought to be excited ; but,
you see, I am quite cool  perfectly so. I
am far too much in earnest to be otherwise.
"When a man's future prospects are at stake,
and his own father seems determined to
thwart him, it is time to summon up all
one's energies. I hope you are not serious
in what you say  that you do absolutely
refuse to sanction my engagement with
Nan?'

There is no engagement. If there were,
I do absolutely refuse  nay, more, I am
determined actively to oppose it.'

I am sorry to find you have not changed
your mind ; for it makes all the difference tome,
I assure you. Very well ; then I must
go in for a City life.'

Do you threaten me, sir ?'

No, father, I would not be so undutiful ;
but it is a pity your throwing all that money
away on my education if I am not to complete
it. If I had taken, a good degree, I
might have turned out something ; but never
mind  it can't be helped now. , Then you

will be kind enough to write a letter of introduction
to Stansfield and Stansfield ?'

No, sir ; I will write no such letter !'
thundered Mr. Mayne ; and Dick put his
hands in his pocket and whistled. He felt
himself losing patience ; but, as he said afterwards,
his father was in such an awful rage,
that it was necessary for one of them to keep
cool. So, as soon as he recovered, he said,
quite pleasantly :

Well, if you will not, you will not. We
may take a horse to the water, but we can't
make him drink. And the time has not
come yet for a son to order his own
father, though we are pretty well advanced
now.'

I think we are, Dick.'

I confess I am rather disappointed at not
getting that letter. Mr. Stansfield would
have attached some importance to it ; but I
dare say I shall get on with the old boy
without it. I may as well tell you that I
shall accept anything he likes to osier me 
even if it be only a clerkship at eighty
pounds a year. After all, I am not worse off
than you were at my age. You began at

542

the bottom of the ladder ; so I need not
grumble

Do you mean to say demanded his
father, in a tone of grief, * that you really
intend to throw me over ? and not only me,
but all your advantages, your prospects in life,
for the sake of this girl ?'

I think it is you who are throwing me
over,' returned his son candidly. * Put
yourself in my place. When you were a
young man, father, would you have given up
my mother, if my grandfather had wished
you to do so ?'

The cases are different  altogether
different,' was the angry response. ' I never
would have married a dressmaker.'

There are dressmakers and dressmakers ;
but, at least, my fiancee is a gentlewoman,'
returned his son hotly.

Dick meant nothing by this speech more
than his words implied ; he was far too good-natured
for an article pense. But his father
chose to consider himself insulted.

You insolent young fellow!' he exclaimed,
fuming. ' Do you mean your mother was
not as good as Miss Nancy, any day ? I never

did believe in those Challengers  never, in spite
of the mother's airs. I tell you what, Dick,
you are treating me shamefully ; after all the
money I have wasted on you, to turn round
on me in this way and talk about the City.
I wash my hands of you, sir. I will have
nothing to do with introductions  you may go
your way ; but you will never see a penny of
my money.' And he walked on with a very
black look indeed.

All right,' returned Dick. But he was not
quite so cool now. * Thank you for all you
have done for me, and for letting me know
your future intentions. I am thinking it is a
good thing Nan has learned her business, for
as we shall be tolerably poor, it will be handy
for her to make her own gowns.'

Very well, Dick.'

I shall go up to Mr. Stansfield tomorrow ;
and the day after I suppose I had better write
to the Dean. You may not believe me, father '
and here Dick's lip quivered for the first
time  ' but I am awfully sorry to cross you in
this way ; but my heart is so set on Nan that
I could not possibly bring myself to live without
her.' But to this Mr. Mayne made no

reply, and they walked the remainder of the
way in silence.

Mrs. Mayne's heart grew sick with
apprehension when she saw their faces at
dinner.

Dick looked decidedly cross. To do him
justice, the poor fellow was thoroughly miserable
; but his aspect was cheerful compared to
that of her husband.

Mr. Mayne would not speak ; neither would
he eat. And even the footman, who took
away the untasted viands, looked at his
master with fear and trembling, his countenance
was so gloomy.

Dick did not seem to notice his father's
failure of appetite ; but Mrs. Mayne was one
of those women who are given to fancy
that if a man refuse his dinner there is something
serious the matter with him. And
as the meal proceeded she cast piteous
looks at her son  but Dick totally ignored
them.

As soon as the servants had handed round
the fruit, and had left the room, Mr. Mayne
rose from the table, leaving his claret untasted,
and shut himself into the library, first banging

the door behind him, a sound that made
his wife's heart palpitate.

Oh, Dick, what has happened to your
father T she asked, turning to her boy for
comfort. But Dick was unusually sulky, and
refused to answer.

'You had better ask him, mother, if you
are anxious to know,' he replied, in a voice he
very seldom used to her. * As for me, I am
so sick of the whole thing, and feel myself so
badly used, that I would rather not open
my lips on the subject.'

Then Mrs. Mayne sighed, for she knew Dick
had one of his obstinate fits on him, and that
there would be no further word spoken by him
that night.

Poor woman ! She knew it was her duty
to go into the library and speak a word of
comfort to her husband. It might be that
Dick had been contumacious, and had angered
his father ; and it might be her task to pour
in the balm of sympathy. Even if he had
been hard on her boy, she must not forget
that he was her husband.

But as she opened the door she forgot her
doubts in a moment. Mr. Majore's face was

so pale, despite its blackness, that she was
moved to instant pity.

Oh, Eichard, what is it ?* she said,
hurrying to him. * My dear, you must not
take it to heart in this way.' And she took
his forehead between her hands and kissed it
with the old tenderness she had once felt for
him, when they, too, had lived and worked
for each other, and there was no Master Dick
to plague them and rule over his mother's
heart.

Bessie, that boy will be the death of me,'
he groaned. But notwithstanding the despondency
of these words, the comfort of his
wife's presence was visibly felt, and by-and-by
he suffered her to coax the truth from him.

MR. MAYNE ORDERS A BASIN OF GRUEL.

N the following morning Mr. Mayne
did open his lips to address a
word to his son.

I shall be obliged to you, Dick, if you
will postpone your intended visit to town, for
this day at least;' for Dick had an * A B C
beside him, and was picking out a fast train
while he ate his breakfast.

'All right,' replied Dick; *I can wait
another four-and-twenty hours.' But though
he yielded the point graciously enough, he
did not look at his father, or say anything
more on the subject ; and as soon as his
appetite was satisfied, he took up the Times,
and lounged into his den. Shortly afterwards

they heard him whistling to his clogs, and
knew that he would not appear until luncheon.


Mrs. Mayne wished that her husband would
follow his example ; hut he had put on his
slippers, and shown no inclination to leave
the fireside. He read his paper and dozed a
good deal, and snapped up Bessie if she spoke
to him; so on the whole Mrs. Mayne had
rather a dull morning. "When the luncheon-hell
rang, he chose to put on invalid airs, and
ordered a basin of gruel to he brought to him
in the library. Mrs. Mayne, who knew he
was not ill, and that his indisposition was
purely mental and imaginary, was yet wise
enough to fall in with his whim.

Your master would like his gruel nicely
flavoured, James,' she said to the footman.
Please ask Mrs. Tompkins to prepare it in
the way he likes ;' and then she placed his
favourite little table beside him, and stirred
the fire into a more cheerful blaze.

Your father does not feel himself well
enough to come in to luncheon, Dick,' she
said to her son, probably for the benefit of
the servant, who was waiting to remove the

covers ; and Dick, for the same reason, testified
a proper amount of sympathy.

He takes too long walks for a man of his
age,' he said, applying himself vigorously to
the dismemberment of a chicken. ' Mother,
I will trouble you for some of that game-pie ;'
and then he told her another anecdote about
Vigo.

After luncheon Dick again disappeared,
and Mrs. Maine, who dreaded an afternoon's
tete-tete with her husband in his present
mood, went up to her own room, for some
feminine business, or to take a nap. Mr.
Mayne, a little mollified by the gruel, which
had been flavoured exactly to his liking with
a soiipcoii of rum, was just composing himself
for another doze, when he was roused by
the loud pealing of the hall-bell, and the next
moment the door was flung open by James,
and Sir Henry Challoner was announced.

It was a dark, wintry afternoon, and the
library was somewhat sombre ; the fire had
died down, owing to Mr. Mayne's drowsiness.
In the dim light Sir Harry's big burly figure
looked almost gigantic. Mr. Mayne, with his
little lean shoulders and sharp face, looked

beside him much as a small greyhound would
beside a mastiff.

How do you do T began Sir Harry, in
his loud voice. ' I must apologize for my
intrusion ; but I think my name is well known
to you, and needs no introduction. I have
often heard of Mr. Mayne, I can assure you.'

You do me too much honour,' returned
that gentleman stiffly ; and he glanced at the
card in his hand. There it was, ' Sir Henry

Challoner;' 'but what the ' and here his

favourite expletive rose to his lips.

We can scarcely see each other's faces,'
observed Sir Harry cheerfully. ' Will you
allow me to take the liberty, though I have
not known you for seven years  and hardly
for seven minutes ?' and then he seized the
poker, and broke up an obstinate lump of
coal.

Actually, in my own house, and before
my own eyes,' as Mr. Mayne told his wife
afterwards.

There, now ! I have made a glorious
blaze. These are first-rate coals. Now we
can have our talk comfortably together. You
do not know me personally ; but I dare say

you have heard of my father  Sir Francis
Challoner ? Poor old fellow ! I am afraid
too many people heard of him in his time

Yes, sir ; but, as it is hardly becoming of
me to say to his son, I have never heard
much good of him. If I remember rightly,
he did poor Challoner a bad turn once

Hush, my good friend !' and Sir Harry's
ruddy face looked a little disturbed. ' I
thought no one but myself and Aunt
Catherine knew that story. It is rather hard
on a man to have these sort of things brought
up. And the poor old governor is dead now ;
so, if you will permit me to observe, bygones
had better be bygones on that subject.'

Oh, by all means, Sir Harry ; but you
introduced the matter yourself.'

'Excuse me, Mr. Mayne,' rather haughtily,
I introduced myself. I am the son of Sir
Francis. Well, if you know so much, you
will understand the sort of interest I take in
my cousins ; and how I consider it my duty
to make up to them for what they have
lost.'

Very proper, I am sure.'

As to that, duty is a pleasure. They are

such awfully jolly girls, and so uncommonly
plucky, that I am as proud of them as though
they were my own sisters. Nan is so confoundedly
pretty, too. I don't wonder at
your son's taste. He must be a lucky fellow
who gets Nan

Sir !* vociferated Mr. Mayne ; and Sir
Harry immediately changed his tactics.

That is a tidy place opposite you 
Gilsbank, I mean. I have been over there,
settling about the purchase. I am afraid
Crawford is rather a screw; he wanted to
drive too close a bargain. But I said, ''No;
you shall have your money down, right and
tight, but not a farthing over'* And I insisted
on my right to change the name if I
like. I have half a mind to call it " Challoner
Place." '

Mr. Mayne was wide awake now ; his
astonishment knew no bounds.

You are going to buy Gilsbank !'
I have bought it,' was the cool
response ; ' and I am now in treaty for Glen
Cottage. My aunt has a fancy for her old
home ; and, though it is not much of a
place, it is big enough for her and the girls :

and Ibbetson has done a good deal to improve
it. You look surprised, Mr. Mayne ; but I
suppose a man must live somewhere !'

Of course it is none of my business ; but
I thought Sir Francis was as poor as a
church mouse. Mrs. Challoner was my
informant ; and she always-led me to suppose
so.'

She was perfectly right. The poor old
man never could keep money in his pocket ;
it always seemed to slip through his fingers.
But that is not my case. I have been a
lucky fellow all my life. I roughed it a bit
in the colonies at first ; but it did me no
harm. And then we made a splendid hit out
in Sydney  coined money, in fact. I would
not like to tell you what I made in one year ;
it seems blowing one's trumpet, somehow.
But I soon got sick of making it ; and here I
am, with a tidy fortune  plenty for myself,
and enough to set up my aunt and the girls
comfortably without feeling the loss. And
now, Mr. Mayne, when they are back at Glen
Cottage, I want to know what you will do
about your son.'

To do Mr. Mayne justice, he was far too

perplexed to answer off-hand ; in fact, he was
almost rendered dumb by excessive astonishment.
To borrow his own forcible expression,
used to his wife afterwards, * he hardly
knew where he was  things were so topsy-turvy


In the old days, before Dick had produced
that wonderful moustache that was so long in
growing, Mr. Mayne had been very partial to
his neighbours at Glen Cottage. It is always
pleasant to a man to patronize and befriend a
pretty woman ; and Mrs. Challoner was an
exceedingly pretty woman. It was quite an
occupation to a busy man like the master of
Longmead to superintend their garden, and
give his advice on all subjects that belong to
a man's province.

But for the last year, since Dick had so
greatly developed in mental culture, his
father had been growing very weary even of
the name of Challoner ; it had become a habit
with him to decry them on every possible
occasion. * What is in a name ?' he would say,
when some person would lament the dead-antigone
glories of Challoner Place. * There is.
not a soul belonging to them, except that disreputable

Sir Francis ; and he is as good asa
beggar.'

But since Glen Cottage had given way to
the Friary, and the dressmaking scheme had
been carried out, his opposition had become
perfectly frantic ; he could have sworn at
Dick for his senselessness, his want of pride,
his lamentable deficiency in ambition. ' Never,
as long as my name is Eichard Mayne, will
I give in to that boy,' he had vowed inwardly.


And now there had suddenly started up,
like a piece of gilded clap-trap, this amazing
man of inches, calling himself their cousin,
Sir Henry Challoner ; a man who was absolutely
tired of making money  who called
Gilsbank, a far finer house than Longmead, a
tidy little place  who could throw in Glen
Cottage, that bijou residence, as a sort of
dower-house for widowed Challoners ; a man
who would soon be talked about in Hadleigh,
not because he was rich  most of the
Hadleigh families were rich  but because he
was restoring an ancient name to something
of its old respectability.

Mr. Mayne was essentially a shrewd far-vol.

HI. 55

sighted man. Like other self-made men, he
attached a great importance to good blood.
In a moment, he realized that Nan Challoner
of the Friary was a very different person to
Nan Challoner of Glen Cottage, the cousin
of Sir Henry Challoner. Under the latter
circumstances, she would be received on equal
terms at Fitzroy Lodge and at the other
houses of the aristocracy. In marrying her,
Dick would be at once on an intimate footing
with those very people who only just tolerated
his father.

'Well,' observed Sir Harry, after a lengthy
pause, ' what do you say about the matter,
eh ? Though I have accumulated a pretty
sum of money, I do not pretend to be a
millionnaire ; and, of course, as I may settle
down some day and have a family of my
own, I must not treat my cousins as though
they were my sisters. I think of allowing
my aunt a sufficient income during her lifetime
to keep up Glen Cottage ; and I do not
mind paying the girls three thousand pounds
down on their wedding-day just for pin-money
; but more than that cannot be expected
of me.'

Of course not returned Mr. Mayne ; and
then he hesitated. Three thousand pounds
was not much of a fortune. Why, the girl
he wanted for Dick had fifteen thousand, at
least ; but then Dick would not look at her 
and even three thousand was better than
nothing. ' I had hoped better things for my
son,' he went on stiffly. ' I always meant
Dick to marry money.'

Oh, true, money is very good in its way ;
but then, you see, young fellows are not
always to be coerced. I believe there is a
very strong attachment between your son and
my cousin Nan.'

It has cost me a great deal of vexation !'
replied Mr. Mayne very testily  all the more
that his resolution was wavering. ' I do not
wish to hurt your feelings. Sir Henry, but

this confounded dressmaking of theirs '

but here Sir Harry stopped him by a most
extraordinary facial contraction, which most
certainly resembled a wink.

'Hush!' he exclaimed, in a very loud
whisper. ' It does not matter to me, of
course ; but if I were you I would not
mention this little fact to anyone else. Girls

552

are girls, and they will have their fling. A
good steady husband, that is what they want,
the best of them, to sober them when the
right time comes. I mean to put a stop to
this nonsense ; but after all, a little bit of
larking like that, with a lot of high-spirited
generous creatures, what does it matter in
the long-run ? You just settle things with
me off-hand, and I will come to terms with
the young ladies. I am the head of the
family, as they know ;' and Sir Harry
threw out his big chest with a sudden
movement of importance and pride. ' I
am the head of the family; they will
be pleased to remember that,' he repeated
pompously.

It was just at this moment, when victory
lay within his grasp, that Dick sauntered
lazily into the room.

Dick was in an execrable humour ; he was
tired and worried, and his boots were muddy.
And what was the use of being still contumacious,
unless his obstinacy were to be a
spectacle to men and gods  unless he were
to flaunt his ill-humour in the face of his
tyrant, and make his father's soul wretched

within him ? Such is youthful reasoning, that
hates to veil its feelings unobserved.

Dick had not perceived Sir Harry's card,
so he stared at the intruder a little coolly.
Sir Harry returned his look with a glance of
mingled surprise and amusement.

Is this the young gentleman in question T
he asked, in a tone that roused Dick's ire. To
tell the truth, he was a little disappointed by
Nan's choice. It was not so much Dick's
want of good looks, but in Sir Harry's eyes
he appeared somewhat insignificant ; and
then a scowl is not always becoming to
a face. Dick's bright genial expression
was wanting ; he looked a little too like
his father at this moment for Sir Harry's
taste.

Do you mean me ?' observed Dick, in a
magnificent tone. * Is it I who am the young
gentleman in question ? Father, will you
have the goodness to introduce me to this
gentleman with whom you have been talking
me over ?' and Dick twirled his moustache
angrily.

Mr. Mayne looked at his son's moody face,
and his feelings underwent a sudden revulsion;

but before he could speak Sir Harry stepped
in nimbly before him.

"Well, now, I like spirit ; no one cares to
be talked over behind one's back. Supposing
we shake hands you and I, as we are to be
so nearly related. I am Nan's guardian, her
next of kin  Sir Harry Shallower, at your
service ; and Nan sends her love, and you
are a lucky fellow, that is what you are !*
exclaimed Sir Harry genially, as he struck
Dick a sounding blow on his shoulder. But
Dick did not wince ; and though the diamond
ring cut into his hand as they exchanged that
grasp, no expression of pain crossed his face,
which became all at once quite radiant.

Sir Harry hailed the metamorphosis with
delight. Here was the real Dick emerging
like a young sun-god from the clouds.

Come, that is first-rate ; I like the look of
you better now,' he said, with an appreciative
nod.

Father, what does this mean ?' faltered
Dick.

It means,' growled Mr. Mayne, for he
could not get quite amiable all at once, though
his heart was lightening in his bosom  ' it

means that I am an old fool, Dick, and that
you are a young one

No, father  not really  does it ?' And
Dick beamed still more.

And it means that you are not to plague
me any more about the City. But there,
though you have behaved so badly to me,
Dick, I forgive you. Sir Henry and I have
been talking over things, and if you will
work hard for your degree your mother shall
ask the girl down here, and we will see about
it, and that is all I can say at present. And
so we may as well shake hands upon it too.'

But Dick did more than that  he threw
his arm over his father's shoulder with a
movement that was almost caressing.

Thank you, pater ; you are a brick and no
mistake !' was all the undemonstrative Briton's
tongue could say. But Mr. Mayne, as he
looked in his boy's face, and felt that pressure
on his shoulder, thought them sufficiently
eloquent.

There, get along with you, and have it
out with your mother,' he growled. But in
spite of his surly tone, Mr. Mayne felt an
amount of relief that astonished himself : to

see Dick's face happy again, to have no cloud
between them, to know that no domestic discord
would harass his soul and render gruel
necessary to his well-being, was restoring him
to his old self again. Sir Harry longed to
throw back his head and indulge in a good
laugh as he witnessed this little scene of reconciliation.


Mrs. Mayne, who was sitting somewhat
sadly by her own fireside, thinking over that
day's discomfort, was quite taken aback by
hearing Dick coming upstairs in his old way
three steps at a time  and then bursting
into the room after a hasty knock at the
door.

Mother,' he cried breathlessly, * Sir Harry
Challoner is in the library  and pater wants
you to come down and give them some tea 
and Sir Henry is going to stop to dinner  and
the woodcock is to be cooked  and you are
to get the best room ready. But first of
all  like the dear, darling mother you
are  you are to sit down and write a letter
to Nan.'

But the letter was not written then ; for
how could Bessie keep her husband and his

guest waiting for their tea after such an urgent
message ? And had she not first of all to
listen to Dick's incoherent story, which she
heard better from Sir Harry afterwards, who
took great pains to explain it to the poor
bewildered woman ?

Mr. Mayne thought he had never seen
Bessie look so handsome since the days he
courted her, as she sit smiling at the head of
the table in her velvet gown. And Sir Harry,
too, was quite charmed with the soft, comely
creature.

Later on, while the two elder gentlemen
were chatting confidentially over their
cigars and whisky-and-water, she did manage
to write a few lines to Nan. But it was not
much of a letter ; for how was she to construct
a decent sentence with that torment Dick
hanging over the back of her chair and interrupting
her every moment ? But Nan was
not ill-pleased by the missive when she received
it.

My own dear girl,' it said ; * my dearest
girl  for no daughter could ever be so dear tome
as you will be. Nan, for my boy's sake, and

because he loves you so.' (' You are right
there, mother !' struck in Dick, in a tone of
ecstasy.) ' Everything has come right, through
Sir Henry's intercession and my Richard's
goodness.' (' Humph !'* coughed Dick. Mell,
it is not for the likes of me to contradict
you')

You are to come to us  at once  at
once '  underlined  ' for Dick will be going
back to Oxford, so there is no time to lose :
and you have not got any good of your engagement
yet.' (' Only just at that last moment,'
muttered her son at this.)

My precious boy looks so happy that I
could cry with joy to see him.' (' Oh, shut
up, mother ! Nan knows all that') * And his
dear father looks as pleased as possible, and
he sends his love ' (' He did indeed, Dick,' as
an incredulous sound broke from his lips),
and he says bygones are bygones. And you
are on no account to feel yourself awkward as
regards him, for of course Dick's fiancee '
(rare you sure that is spelt right, Dick ?') ' will
bring her own welcome. Is not that a sweet
speech for my Eichard to say ? So you will
come, my dear, will you not ? And I remain,

just what I always was, my Nan's loving
friend,

'Bessie Mayne

And then the letter was carefully consigned
to Dick's pocket, and in due course of time
was delivered into Nan's fair hands.

AN UNINVITED GUEST.

.Bring the next few days Grace
and Phillis made great strides
towards intimacy ; and, as though
some magnetic influence attracted each to
each, they were to be found constantly
together. Neither of them were girls to
indulge in gushing sentimentality ; but Grace,
whose refined intellectual nature had hitherto
met with no response except from her brother,
perceived at once Phillis's innate superiority
and clear generous temperament. For the
first time she felt feminine friendship a possibility,
and hailed it as a new-found joy. Nan
testified her pleasure on more than one occasion
; jealousy never found a resting-place ina
corner of her heart.

I am so glad, Phillips she observed once,
that you and Grace Drummond like each
other so much. You have never found
any girl equal to you yet ; and I was
always too stupid to give you what you
wanted

Oh, Nannie, as though I would change you
for a dozen Grace Drummondss !' returned
Phillis, staunch as ever to her domestic creed,
that there never was and never could be such
another as Nan.

Oh, of course we shall always be the
same to each other, you and I,' returned
Nan seriously. ' eye are such old comrades,
Phil; but then I have Dick, and it is only
fair you should have some one too ] but she
did not understand why Phillis suddenly
sighed and turned away.

An amusing little incident happened to
Phillis after this, which she greatly enjoyed.
Colonel Middleton's avoidance of them had
long been a sore point with her, as it was
with Dulce,

I feel almost like that wicked Human,'
she said once, in a serio-comic voice ; * and
he were my Mordecai. I shall never think

we have achieved perfect success until I have
forced him to shake hands with me ;' but
Nan, who cared very little about such things,
only laughed.

On Sunday morning Colonel Middleton
marched up the aisle rather more pompously
than usual, and there followed him a tall,
very solemn-faced young man, with serious
eyes that reminded them of Elizabeth.

Son Hammond,' whispered Phillis, who
was not always as devout as she ought to
be ; and Dulce tried hard to compose her
dimples.

Possibly the young officer was not as
solemn as his looks, for he certainly paid
more attention to the opposite pew than he
did to his Prayer-book; and as he walked
home with his sister. Colonel Middleton being
just then out of earshot, he questioned her
rather closely on the subject.

Who were those girls, Elizabeth ? I
mean the three who were just opposite us
with their mother  are they visitors or
residents ?' then Elizabeth told him very
briefly their name and occupation.

Good gracious !' he returned, in a thunderstruck

tone; and then all at once lie burst
out laughing, as though at a good joke.

I call that a piece of splendid pluck. Do
you know, I could see in a moment there was
something out of the common about them ;
they are all very pretty  at least good-looking,
and I liked their quiet style of dress.
You must introduce me tomorrow.'

My dear Hammond, I can do nothing of
the kind,' returned Elizabeth, glancing round
in an alarmed way. * Father has refused to
have them at Brooklyn ; and it will annoys
him terribly if you were to take any notice of
them ;' but to this Hammond turned a deaf
ear, and though he forbore to question her
any further on that occasion, he had fully
made up his mind that the introduction
should take place as soon as possible.

As it fell out, accident favoured him the
very next day ; for, as he was calling with
his sister at the White House, who should be
announced the next minute but the Misses
Challoner  Phillis and Dulce, who had been
bidden to afternoon-tea !

Mrs. Cheyne kissed and welcomed them
both. Then Captain Middleton was introduced

; and they were soon chatting merrily
together, to Elizabeth's secret amusement.

Captain Middleton made himself very
agreeable to the two girls, as Dulce observed
afterwards. She had never before been so
deceived in a man's appearance  for he was
not solemn at all ; and, though the serious
brown eyes certainly inspected them rather
critically from time to time, he proved himself
a bright amusing companion, and fully
bore out his father and sister's encomiums.

The Middletons were easily induced to
prolong their visit. Elizabeth felt herself a
traitor to her father ; but she could not refuse
Hammond's imploring glance. And so they
stayed, and all took their leave together.

Mr. Cheyne walked down to the gate with
them. He had an errand in the town ; and
he and Elizabeth walked behind the young
people, talking them over in a low voice.

Now it so happened that Colonel Middleton
was trudging down the Braidwood Road ;
and as he neared the White House he looked
up, and there was his son walking contentedly
with a Challoner girl on either side of him,
and the three were laughing merrily.

It was Dulce who saw him first.

There comes your father !' she said ; and
she began to blush as she had done on the
day when he had left her at the gate of
Brooklyn talking to Elizabeth.

Hammond proved himself quite worthy of
the occasion.

'Well met, father!' he called out cheerily.
We seem all going one way. I suppose no
one needs any introduction ? Of course you
know my father, Miss Challoner ?'

Then the Colonel threw down his arms.
He had fought very bravely on his son's
behalf; but, after all his labours, his bristling-defences
and skilful retreats, Hammond had
of his own free will delivered himself into
the hands of the Philistines. What was the
use of guarding an empty citadel  his treasure
was already in the enemy's grasp ?

All this was written on the Colonel's
lugubrious face as he bowed stiffly and
walked in sorrowful silence beside them,
shaking his white head at intervals ; but no
one but Dulce took any notice of his sombre
mood.

Dulce was very timid by nature. She

VOL. III. 56

was the least outspoken of the three, and
always kept in the background, like a
modest little flower that loved the shade ; but
she was very soft-hearted, and had great
regard for people's feelings. And the old
man's downcast looks pained her; for how
was she to know that he was secretly pleased
at this meeting ?

I hope  I wish  you did not mind
knowing us so much. But it has not been
our fault this afternoon,' sighed Dulce,
stammering and blushing over her words.
You will believe that, will you not. Colonel
Middleton ?'

If a cannon-shot had been fired into the
old warrior's ear, he could hardly have started
more than he did at these childish words.
He looked round. There was the little girl,
looking up at him with the innocent eyes
he remembered so well, and her mouth
puckered a little as though she wanteJto
cry.

This was more than any man could bear,
even if he had a harder heart than Colonel
Middleton.

My dear,' he said, taking the little hand,

'I have always wanted to know you 
Elizabeth will tell you that. I lost my heart
to your sisters the first day I saw them. I
am sure wee shall be good friends in time, if
you will forgive an old man's pride ;' and
then he patted her hand as though she had
been an infant.

When Mr. Drummond sat down to dinner
that evening, he astonished Mattie very much
by saying :

You can ask the Middletons after all for
your tea-party if you like, Mattie. What
wonderful sight do you think I saw just now?
Why, the Colonel himself coming out from
the Friary, and all the three girls were round
him, chattering as though they had known
him all their life ; and I am pretty sure that,
in spite of the dark, I saw " Son Hammond "
behind him ;' and Mattie, glad of the permission,
gave the invitation the next day.

Mattie grew a little alarmed as the evening
approached. It was her first party, and she
knew Archie would be critical; but Grace
proved herself a useful ally.

In spite of her efforts to keep in the background,
and leave Mattie in her position as

562

mistress of her brother's house, she felt
herself becoming insensibly its presiding
spirit.

Archie was tolerably good-natured to
Mattie ; but the habits of a lifetime were too
strong for him, and he still snubbed and repressed
her at intervals. Mattie felt herself
of no importance now Grace had come ; her
duties were usurped before her eyes. Archie
made a fresh demand on her forbearance everyday.


Why cannot you keep to the housekeeping,
and let Grace do the schools and visiting ?'
he said once. ' It must come to her by-and-by,
when you are gone ; and I want her to
begin as soon as possible. It will not do tolet
her think she has come too soon,' implying
that good taste should lead Mattie to
resign of her own account.

Poor Mattie ! she had many a good cry in
secret before that Tuesday. She could hardly
help feeling pained to see how all-in-all those
two were to each other, and the glad eagerness
Grace threw into her work, knowing the
reward of commendation she would reap.
It must be so strange never to be snubbed

or scolded  to do everything right Mattie
thought.

Grace felt very sorry for her, and petted
her a good deal. The dark little face had
always a pained wistfulness on it now that
touched her. She spoke kindly of Mattie to
her brother on all possible occasions.

I think Mattie is so generous in giving upto
me as she does she observed, as Archie
joined her in the drawing-room in expectation
of their guests. Mattie had not yet made her
appearance. She had been lighting the wax
candles and trimming a refractory lamp that
refused to burn, and had just run past her
brother with blackened fingers and hot, tired
face.

Oh yes, she is good enough he returned
indifferently, as he straightened a crooked
candle ; * but I wish she would not always be
late. She has not begun to dress, and it is
the time we appointed for the Challoners to
come. Of all things I hate punctuality
and fuss, and Mattie is alway so fussy.'

Grace's conscience pricked her. ' I am
afraid I left her too much to do,' she said
penitently. * Phillis asked me to go for a

walk with them ; but I ought not to have left
her. I will go and help her now

But Archie objected.

No, no ; let her be. You must not leave
me alone to receive them. How nice you
look in that cream-coloured dress, Grace ! I
thought it would suit you.' But though his
eyes rested on her as he spoke, he seemed
rather absent. And when the door-bell rang
a moment afterwards, a sudden flush came to
his face.

It was very odd to feel that he was receiving
Nan as his guest. He had dreaded the
ordeal greatly, but after the first moment it
was not so bad. Grace, who had her suspicions,
and watched them closely, had them
verified without doubt during the moment that
followed the Challoners' entrance ; but no
other eyes but hers would have read anything
amiss in the young Vicar's gravely composed
face.

Nan, who was looking beautiful, met him
with her usual unconsciousness ; though neither
of them knew it, it was this very unconsciousness
that was fast healing the wound.
One cannot mourn long after a lost dream,

and there had never been any reality in it.
Not one of Nan's thoughts had ever belonged
to him for a moment ; his existence, his individuality,
had never grazed the outer edge of
her susceptibilities. Dick had encased her
from childhood in armour of proof against all
manhood. Archie felt this even as he touched
her hand, and his lips gave her welcome.

I am so sorry your mother could not
come,' he said politely. And then he turned
to Phillis, who was regarding him with an
odd, dubious look.

Archie felt the look, and his spirit rose in
instant opposition.

*Do you know the Middletons are to be
here after all ?' he said, moving a little into the
background, for this girl had keen vision,
and, as of old, her sympathy moved him
strangely.

Oh, then we shall be quite a party,' she
returned brightly. * It seems ages since we
have been at one, and I feel disposed to enjoy
myself. The very sight of wax candles is
exhilarating. I am half afraid to touch
coffee, for fear it will get into my head. And
how sweet Grace looks in that dress !'

Your chef d'ocuvre /' he replied rather
wickedly.

Oh yes, I recognise my handiwork returned
Phillis nonchalantly.  I am quite as
proud of it as an artist would be of a picture.
Here comes Mattie ; poor little thing ! she
seems tired, but she looks nice, too.'

Archie moved away after this, for the
Middletons were announced ; but he thought
as he left her that he had never seen her
look so handsome. Nan's beauty had so
blinded him, that he had hardly been aware
what a charming face Phillis really had ;
when she was pleased or excited she lighted
up quite radiantly.

 * Oh dear !' exclaimed Mattie, fussily
coming up at that moment. ' I don't know
what has become of your cousin ; but Captain
Middleton says all the trains have been
snowed up.'

If the train he is in has been snowed up,
of course we must not expect to see him
this evening,' was Phillis's laughing reply.
Never mind, I dare say we shall all survive
it ; though Harry is such a good fellow, and
I am immensely fond of him.'

Oh, but the tea and coffee will be spoiled.
I must go and pour it out now  look, Grace
is making signs to me.'

Shall I come and help you ?' was the
ready response. ' What a pretty little tea-table,
Mattie ; and how charmingly snug it
looks in the bay-window ! The gentlemen
will wait on us, of course. I like this way
better than servants handing round lukewarm
cups from the kitchen ; it is not so grand,
but it is cosier. Was it your arrangement,
Mattie T

Oh yes,' returned Mattie in a disconsolate
tone, as she took her place. but Phillis,
are you really not anxious about your cousin ?
It is so dreadful to think of him snowed up
all night, with nothing to eat and drink !'

Phillis laughed outright at this.

My imagination will not conjure up such
horrors. I believe Harry is at this moment
sitting in the hotel discussing a good dinner
before a blazing fire ;' and as Mattie looked
injured at this, she continued, still more
merrily : ' My dear, are you such an
ignoramus as to believe that any amount
of wax candles and charming women will

induce an Englishman to forego his dinner ?
He will come by-and-by ; and if he gets cold
coffee, he will have his deserts ;' and then
Mattie's anxious face grew more cheerful.

The tea-table became the nucleus of the
whole room before long. Even Mr. Frere,
a tall, scholarly-looking man, with spectacles,
and a very bald head, though he was still
young, seemed drawn magnetically into the
circle that closed round Phillis. The girl
was so natural and sprightly, there was such
buoyancy and brightness in her manner ; and
yet no man could ever have taken a liberty
with her, or mistaken the source of that pure
ripping fun. The light jesting tone, the
unembarrassed manner, were as free from
consciousness as though there were gray-headed
dons round her. And yet, alas for
Phillis ! there was not a word uttered in a
certain voice that did not reach her ear
somehow ; not a movement that was lost
upon her, even when she chatted and laughed
with those who stood round her.

Colonel Middleton was staunch to his little
favourite, and sat on the couch between her
and Grace, while Nan and Miss Middleton

talked apart. Nan watched the tea-table
smilingly. She did so love to see Phillis
happy ; it never occurred to her to feel
herself a little neglected, or to wonder why
the grave young master of the house so
seldom addressed her  these sort of thoughts
never entered into Nan's head.

But she grew a little silent by-and-hy, and
began to answer Elizabeth somewhat absently.
She did not know what it meant, but a certain
strong longing took possession of her  a sort
of craving to see Dick's face and hear his
voice. It was foolish, of course ; and then
she roused herself with difficulty.

How late Harry is ! I wonder if the
train be really snowed up ! Oh, that must be
he!' as the door-bell sounded. ' Mattie will
be glad ; she was so afraid the coffee would
be cold.' For Mattie had poured this grievance
into everyone's ears.

Of course it was Sir Harry. Yes, as the
door opened, there was the broad, genial face
and the massive shoulders that could only
belong to one person. And who was this
young man following him  a somewhat insignificant
young man compared to this son of

Anak  a young man with sandy hair, with a
trivial moustache, with a free, careless expression
of good-nature that seemed somehow
stamped on his features ?

Nan did not speak or move in her corner ;
but she locked her hands together tightly,
and a most wonderful blush came to her face ;
for the young man's eyes had moved quickly
round the room, with an eager expression in
them, and had just rested upon her.

Nan sat immovably while Sir Harry gave
the necessary introduction in his loud, jovial
voice :

I am sorry to be late  I am, 'pon my
honour. Miss Mattie ! but it could not be
helped  could it, Mayne ? Mr. Drummond, I
have taken the liberty to bring a friend with
me ; he is my guest at present  Mr. Eichard
Mayne. He has come down to Hadleigh to see
some old acquaintances of his.'

Dick ! oh, Dick!' the words would come
out now. Miss Middleton had judiciously
vacated the corner of the couch, and Dick
had boldly placed himself there instead,
after first touching Nan's trembling hand.
 What does it mean ? Why have you startled

me so ?' she whispered, for they were in a
snug corner, and no one was near them.

I suppose a man has a right to come and
look after his own belongings ?' returned Dick,
in the coolest possible manner. But his eyes
were more eloquent than his words, as usual.
How lovely you are looking. Nan ! I do believe
you grow prettier every day. And are
you glad to see me  half or a quarter as glad
as I am to see you ?'

I was thinking of you,' she returned softly.
I was wondering what you were doing, and
picturing you at Longmead ; and then the
door opened, and there you were, half hidden
by Harry ; and I thought I was dreaming.'

Well, that was transmission of thought,
don't you see  animal magnetism and all that
sort of thing. You thought of me because I
was thinking of you ; but you did not know
that only the door divided us. Oh, Nan ! isn't
it awfully jolly to be together again ?'

Yes ; but I don't understand it yet,' she
replied. * Have you come without your
father's permission, Dick ? Are you sure he
will not be very angry ?'

Oh no ; the pater is all right. Sir Harry

what a brick that fellow is !  has talked him
over, and he has given his consent to our
engagement. Look here, Nan ! what you have
got to do is to pack up your things, and I am
to take you down tomorrow. This is a note
from mother, and you will see what she says.'
And Nan's gloved hand closed eagerly upon
the precious missive.

The letter could not he read just then.
Nan sent Dick away after that, though he
would willingly have remained in his corner
during the remainder of the evening. He
went off grumbling, to be civil to his hostess,
and Nan remained behind trying to calm herself.
It was ' all right,' Dick had told her.
She was to go down with him the next
day to dear Longmead. Were their troubles
really over ? Well, she would hear all about
it tomorrow. She must wait patiently until
then.

Nan did not long remain alone. Archie,
who had watched this little scene from the
bay-window, suddenly took his opportunity
and crossed the room.

Nan looked up at him with a happy
smile.

You have had a surprise this evening,
have you not, Miss Challoner ? Sir Harry
has just been telling me all about it ; you
will permit me now to offer my congratulations
?'

Most certainly, Mr. Drummond

I am so glad, for both your sakes, that
things should be so comfortably settled he
went on, placing himself beside her  a movement
that mightily displeased Dick, who had
conceived a dislike to the handsome parson
from the first. ' A parent's opposition is
always a serious drawback in such cases ; but
Sir Harry tells me that Mr. Mayne has given
his full consent.'

I believe so,' returned Nan, blushing a
little ;  but I really hardly know any particulars.
It is such a surprise to me
altogether; but his mother has written tome,
and I am expected down there.'

You have my warmest wishes for your
happiness,' continued Archie gravely; and
then Nan thanked him.

But here Dick interrupted them. He was
still new to his role, and hardly had the
assurance that belongs to the engaged man,

who feels himself safely steering towards the
desired haven of matrimony. It appeared to
him that on this evening he ought not to lose
sight of Nan for a moment. To see Mr.
Drummond taking his place was too much for
him, and he put down his untasted coffee.

'I am afraid it is rather cold,' observed
Mattie anxiously ; but she spoke to deaf
ears.

Dick was abbacy half-way to the corner.
Nan received him a little shyly ; but Mr.
Drummond at once took the hint.

Oh, Dick, people will notice ! you must
take care,' remonstrated Nan.

She was preparing one of those gentle
little lectures to which she sometimes treated
him, and to which he was wont to listen with
the utmost submission ; but, to her intense
surprise, he turned restive.

That was all very well when things
were not settled between us,' observed Dick
decidedly. ' Now we are engaged, of course
I shall assert my rights publicly. What does
it matter if people notice ? They will only
think what a lucky fellow I am, and how
they would like to be in my place. Do you

think I was going to remain at the other end
of the room while that parson was talking to
you T And then Nan all at once discovered
that, in spite of Dick's boyish looks and easy
temper, she had found her master  that, like
other men, he was capable of jealousy, and
insisted on an entire and undivided allegiance.


Nan was weak enough to like him all the
better for this little touch of tyranny ; and,
after all, though she felt it a little hard on
Mr. Drummond, who was so harmless and
good-natured, the sense of this monopoly was
very sweet to her.

VOL. III. 57

A NEW INVASION OF THE GOTHS.

'T was the most successful evening 
everyone said so ; but somehow
Mattie had not enjoyed it. She
supposed she was tired  that lamp had
worried her ; . hut though everyone had been
very pleasant, and had said nice things
to her  even that formidable Mr. Frere 
Mattie felt something had been lacking. She
had been very pleased to see Sir Harry,
and he had come up to her at once, and
spoken to her in his usual genial manner ;
but after the first few minutes, during which
he had drunk his coffee standing beside her,
she did not remember that he had again addressed
her. After that, he had made his

way to Grace, and did not stir for a longtime.


Mattie had Colonel Middleton on her hands
then ; but her eyes would stray to that part
of the room. How pretty Grace looked in
that soft creamy dress, with the dainty lace
ruffles that Archie had sent her ! Her face
generally wanted colour and animation, but
to-night she was quite rosy by comparison.
She seemed to find Sir Harry amusing, for
she looked up at him very brightly. And
then Archie joined them ; he would not be de
trap there, he knew. And the three talked
as though they never meant to leave off.

When Sir Harry came to take his leave,
he said a little abruptly :

I like that sister of yours, Miss Mattie.
She is sensible for a girl ; and yet she knows
how to laugh. Clever girls are generally a
little priggish, do you know. But one need
not be afraid of Miss Grace ;' and Mattie
knew that from Sir Harry this was high
praise.
'Everyone likes Grace,' she faltered.

I am not surprised at that,' was the ready
response ; and then he shook hands and

572

thanked her for the pleasant evening. He
did not even look at her as he spoke, Mattie
remembered afterwards : he was watching
Nan, who was smiling on Dick's arm.

The young Yicar stood bareheaded on the
snowy doorstep, as his guests merrily trooped
out together. Dick and Nan came first ;
Nan had a scarlet hood over her bright hair,
and Dick was grumbling over the lightness of
her cloak, and was wrapping his gray overcoat
round her.

Nonsense, Nan  I insist upon it ! and
you know nothing gives me cold !' Dick was
saying in his authoritative way ; and then of
course Nan yielded.

' Oh, wert thou in the could blast'* sang
Phillis mockingly, who was following them
under Captain Middleton's escort. ' Don't
you think engaged people are sometimes very
masterful ?' She spoke of course to her
companion; but he had turned to warn his
father and Dulce of an awkward step, and
Archie intercepted the sentence.

'Most men are masterful. Miss Challoner.
You will find that out some day for yourself;'
he meant nothing by this little speech, and

Invasion of the Goths. 261

lie was rather taken aback by the sudden hot
blush that came to the girl's face, and the
almost angry light in her eyes, as she turned
away from him, and ran down the slippery
steps, to Captain Middleton's alarm.

"eon yonder lea, on yonder lea'' ' they
heard her humming gaily ; and Hammond
caught the refrain, and finished it in a fine
manly bass, while Archie stood still under the
wintry sky. Why had she looked like that at
him ? "What was there in his lightly uttered
speech to offend her ?

Grace was standing alone when he reentered
the drawing-room. Most of the wax
candles were extinguished, but the soft glow
of the firelight irradiated the farthest corner
of the room.

'What a glorious fire!' he said, warming
his chilly hands at it, and then throwing
himself into the easy-chair that Grace silently
placed for him. *And where is Mattie ?
really, she did very well to-night.'

You must tell her tomorrow, she will be
so pleased ; she seems tired, and her headaches,
so I advised her to go to bed ;' and
though Archie did not say openly that he

approved of this sensible advice, he implied
it by the way he drew a low chair forward
for Grace  so close beside him, that she could
rest her arm upon the cushioned elbow of
his.

They remained comfortably silent for a longtime
; it was Grace who spoke first.

'Archie,' she said, rather nervously, but
her eyes had a settled purpose in them, ' shall
you be angry if I disobey you, dear, and speak
again on a certain subject ?'

What subject ?' he asked, rather surprised
by her manner. He had not a notion to what
she was referring; he did not know how
during that long silence their thoughts had
been touching the same point, and that all
this time she was seeking courage to speak
to him.

I know your secret, Archie ; I discovered
it to-night.'

My secret !' he returned, in utter amazement.
* I have no secret, Gracie ;' and then, ashe
caught her meaning, a cloud came to his
brow. * But this is nonsense !' he continued
harshly  ' pure nonsense ; put it out of your
head.'

*I saw it to-night,' she went on, in a very
low voice, undisturbed by his evident displeasure.
* She is good and sweet, and quite
lovely, Archie, and that young man is not
half worthy of her ; but she has no thought
but for him

Do you think I do not know that ?' he
returned, in an exasperated tone. * Grace, I
will not have you talk in this way. I am
cured  quite cured ; it was nothing but a
passing folly.'

A folly that made you very unhappy, my
poor Archie ; but  hush ! you must not
interrupt me  I am not going to talk about
her.'

'Oh, that is well,' he returned, in a relieved
tone.

I was sorry  just a little sorry at first,
because I knew how much it had cost you ;
but this evening I could have found it in my
heart to be angry with you  yes, even with
you. " Oh, the blindness of these men !"
I thought ; ' why will they trample on their
own happiness ?" '

Are you speaking of me ?' he asked, in a
bewildered tone.

Of whom should I be speaking T she
answered ; and her voice had a peculiar
meaning in it. * You are my dear brother 
my dearest brother ; but you are no more
sensible than other men.'

I suppose not he returned, staring at
her; * I suppose not.'

'Many men have done what you are
doing she went on quietly. * Many have
wanted what belonged to another, and have
turned their backs upon the blessing that
might have been theirs. It is the game of
cross-purposes. Do you remember that
picture, Archie  the lovely print you longed
to buy  the two girls and the two men ?
There was the pretty demure maiden in front,
and at the back a girl with a far sweeter face
to my mind, watching the gloomy-looking
fellow, who is regarding his divinity from
afar. There was a face here to-night that
brought that second girl strongly to my
mind; and I caught an expression on it
once ' here Archie violently started.

Hush ! hush ! what are you implying ?
Grace, you are romancing ; you do not mean
this ?'

 As there is a heaven above us, I do mean
it, Archie

Then, for God's sake, not another word !'
and then he rose from his seat, and stood on
the rug.

You are not really angry with me T she
urged, frightened at his vehemence.

No ; I am not angry. I never am angry
with you, Grace, as you know ; but, all the
same, there are some things that never
should be said ;' and, when he had thus
gravely rebuked her speech, he kissed her
forehead, and, muttering some excuse about
the lateness of the hour, left the room.

Grace crept away to her chamber a little
discomfited by this rebuff, gently as it had
been given ; but if she had only guessed the
commotion those few hinted words had raised
in her brother's mind !

He had understood her  in one moment
he had understood her. As though by a
lightning-flash of intelligence the truth had
dawned upon him ; and if an electric shock
had passed through his frame and set all his
nerves tingling he could not have been more
deeply shaken.

Was that what she thought, too, when she
had turned away from him with that quiet look
of scorn on her face ? Did she know of any
possible blessing that might have been his,
only that he had turned his back upon it,
crying out childishly for a shadowy happiness
? Did she mutter to herself also, ' Oh,
the blindness of these men !' ?

There is an old saying, greatly credited by
the generality of people, that hearts are often
caught at the rebound  that in their painful
tossing from uneven heights and depths,
and that sad swinging over uncertain abysses,
some are suddenly attracted and held fast,
and there is sufficient proof to warrant the
truth of this adage.

The measurements of pain are unequal 
different natures hold different capacities. A
trouble that seems very real at the time, and
full of stings, may be found later on to be
largely alloyed by wounded self-love and
frustrated vanity. Sound it with the plumb-line
of experience, of time, of wakening
hopefulness, and it may sink fathoms, and
by-and-by end in nothingness ; or perhaps
more truly in just a sense of salt bitterness

between the teeth, as when one plunges in a
waning tide.

Not that Archie realized all this as he
paced his room that night  no ; he was very
strangely moved and excited. Something, he
knew not what, had again stirred the monotony
of his life. He had been sick and sad
for a long time ; for men are like children,
and fret sometimes after the unattainable, if
their hearts be set upon it. And yet though
he forbore to question himself too closely that
night, how much of his pain had been due to
wounded vanity and crossed wilfulness !

It was long before he could sleep, for the
sudden broadening of the perspective of his
future kept him wide awake and restless. It
was as though he had been straining his eyes
to look down a long, gray vista, where he
saw things dimly ; and that suddenly there
was a low light on the horizon  not brilliant,
not even clear ; but it spoke of approaching
daybreak. By-and-by the path would be
more plainly visible.

There was great excitement at the Friary
on the next day. They had found it hard to
get rid of Dick the previous night ; but Sir

Harry, who read his aunt's tired face rightly,
had carried him off almost by sheer force,
after a lengthy leave-taking with Nan in the
passage.

It was only Mrs. Challoner who was tired.
Poor woman ! She was fairly worn out by
the violence of her conflicting feeling  by
sympathy with Nan in her happiness  with
pleasure in Dick's demonstrative joy, and
sorrow at the thought of losing her child.
The girl herself was far too much excited for
sleep.

She and Phillis did all the packing for the
next day, and it was not until Dulce sleepily
warned them of the lateness of the hour that
they consented to separate ; and then Nan sat
by the parlour fire a long time alone, enjoying
the luxury of undisturbed meditation.

But the next morning, just as they had
gone into the workroom  not to settle to any
business  that was impossible under the
present exciting circumstances  but just to
fold up and despatch a gown that had been
finished for Mrs. Squails, while Dulce put the
finishing-touches to Mrs. Cheyne's tweed
dress. Nan announced in a glad voice that

their cousin and Dick were at the gate ; ' and
I am so thankful we packed last night she
continued, ' for Dick will not let me have a
free moment until we start.'

You should keep him in better order observed
Phillis tersely ; * if you give him his
own way so much, you will not have a will of
your owii when you are married  will she,
mother ?' Mrs. Challoner smiled a little feebly
in answer to this ; she never remembered the
time she had had a will of her own.

Nan went out shyly to meet them ; but she
could not understand her reception at all.
Dick's grasp of her hand was sufficiently eloquent,
but he said nothing ; and Nan thought
he was trying not to laugh, for there was a
gleam of fun in his eyes, though he endeavoured
to look solemn. Sir Harry's face,
too, wore an expression of portentous gravity.

Are you all in the workroom. Nan ?' he
asked, in a tone as though they were assembled
at a funeral.

Yes ; mother and all answered Nan
brightly. * What is the matter with you both ?
You look dreadfully solemn.'

Because we have a little business before

lis returned Sir Harry, wrinkling his brows
and frowning at Dick. ' Come, Mayne, if
you are ready.'

Wait a minute. Nan. I will speak to you
afterwards,' observed that young gentleman,
divesting himself of his gray overcoat ; and
Nan, very much puzzled, preceded them into
the room.

How do you do, Aunt Catherine ? Good-morning,
girls,' nodded Sir Harry ; and then
he looked at Dick. And what were they
both doing ? Were they mad ? They must
have taken leave of their senses ; for Dick
had raised his foot gently  very gently 
and Mrs. Squall's red merino gown lay in
the passage. At the same moment, Sir
Harry's huge hand had closed over the tweed;
and, by a dexterous thrust, had flung it as far
as the kitchen. And now Dick was bundling
out the sewing-machine.

Dick  oh, Dick !' in an alarmed voice
from Dulce. And Phillis flew to the great
carved wardrobe that Sir Harry was ransacking
; while Nan vainly strove to rescue the
fashion-books that Dick was now flinging into
the fender.

Oh, you great Goth ! You stupid,
ridiculous Harry !' observed Phillis scornfully,
while the rolls of silk, and satin, and yards
of trimming were tossed lightly into a heap
of debris.

Laddie was growling and choking over the
buttons. Dorothy afterwards carried away a
whole shovelful of pins, and hooks and
eyes.

Nan sat down by her mother and folded
her hands on her lap. When men were
masterful, it was time for maidens to sit still.
Dulce really looked frightened ; but Phillis
presently broke into a laugh.

This is a parable of nature,' she said.
Mammie, does your head ache ? Would
you like to go into the next room ?'

There, we have about done !' observed Sir
Harry. * The place is pretty well clear 
isn't it, Mayne ?' and, as Dick nodded a
cheerful assent, he shut the door of the
wardrobe, locked it, and, with much solemnity,
put the key in his pocket. ' Now for my
parable,' he said. ' Aunt Catherine, you will
excuse a bit of a spree, but one must take
the high hand with these girls. I have

bundled out the whole lot of trumpery ; but,
as head of this family, I am not going to
stand any more of this nonsense.'

Oh, indeed !' put in Phillis. * I hope
Mrs. Squalls will like her creased gown !
Dulce, the sewing-machine is right on the
top of it  a most improving process, certainly.'


Now, Phillis, you will just shut up with
your nonsense ! As head of the family, I
am not going to stand any more of this sort
of thing.'

'What sort of thing?' asked Mrs.
Challoner timidly. ' My dears, I thought it
was only fun ; but I do believe your cousin is
in earnest.'

I am quite in earnest, Aunt Catherine,'
returned Sir Harry, sitting down beside her,
and taking her hand. * I hope our bit of
larking has not been too much for you ; but
that fellow vowed it would be a good joke.'
Here Dick's eyes twinkled. ' If Mrs. Squails's
gown is spoiled, I will buy her another ; but,
on your peril, girls, if you put a stitch in any
but your own from this day forward !'

Please your honour, kindly,' whined

Phillis, dropping a courtesy, ' and what will
your honour have us do ?'

Do !' and then he broke into a laugh.
Oh, I will tell you that presently. All I
know is, Nan is engaged to my Mend Mayne
here ; and I have promised his father, on my
word as a gentleman and head of this family,
that this dressmaking humbug shall be given
up.'

You had no right to give such a promise,'
returned Phillis, offended at this ; but Nan's
hand stole into Dick's. She understood
now.

But, Harry, my dear,' asked Mrs.
Challoner, ' what would you have them
do?'

Oh, play tennis  dance  flirt, if they
like! How do young ladies generally occupy
their time ? Don't let us talk about such
petty details as this. I want to tell you about
my new house. You all know Gilsbank ?
Well, it is " Challoner Place " now.'

You have bought it, Harry ?*

Yes ; I have bought it,' he returned
coolly. ' And, what is more, I hope to settle
down there in another month's time. How

VOL. III. 58

soon do you think you will be ready to move,
Aunt Catherine T

'My dear!' in a voice of mild astonishment.
But Dulce clapped her hands ; she
thought she guessed his meaning. * Are we
to live with you, Harry ? Do you really
mean to take us with you ?'

Of course I shall take you with me ; but
not to Challoner Place. That would be
rather close quarters ; and  and  I may make
different arrangements,' rather sheepishly.
Aunt Catherine, Glen Cottage will be all
ready for you and the girls. I have settled
about the furniture ; and Mrs. Mayne will
have fires lighted whenever you like to comedown.
Why, Aunt  dear Aunt Catherine,'
as he felt her thin hand tremble in his, and
the tears started to her eyes, ' chid you not
tell me how much you loved your old home ?
And do you think, when you have no son to
take care of you, that I should ever let you
be far from me ?'

Confound you !' growled Dick. * Is nota
son-in-law as good as a son any day ?'

But no one heard this but Nan.

Mrs. Challoner was weeping for joy, and

Dulce was keeping lier company ; but Phillis
walked up to her cousin with a shamefaced
look.

I am sorry I called you a Goth, Harry.
I ought to have remembered Alcides. You
are as good as gold. You are a dear generous
fellow. And I love you for it ; and so do
Nan and Dulce. And I was not a bit cross,
really ; but you did look such a great goose,
turning out that wardrobe.' But, though she
laughed at the remembrance, the tears were
in Phillis's eyes.

Dick was nobody after this : not that he
minded that. How could they help crowding
round this * Big hero ' of theirs, who had
performed such wonders !

Gilsbank turned into Challoner Place; Glen
Cottage, with its conservatory and bran-new
furniture, theirs again  their own  their very
own (for Sir Harry intended to buy that too
as soon as possible) ; Nan engaged to her
dearest Dick, and all the neighbourhood prepared
to welcome them back !

If you please. Miss Phillis, Mrs. Squails
desires her compliments, and she is waiting
for her dress.'

582

We forbear to repeat Sir Harry's answer.
Nevertheless, with Dick's help, the unfortunate
gown was extricated, and privately
ironed by Dorothy.

'That is a good morning's work of yours,'
observed Phillis, quietly looking down at the
heap at her feet. * Dorothy, it seems Sir
Harry is master here. If any more orders
come for us, you may as well say, " The
Misses Challoner have given up business." '

IT WAS SO GOOD OF YOU TO ASK ME HERE.

RS. Shallower heaved a gentle
little sigh, when in the afternoon
the fly carried ofi" Nan and Dick
to the station ; it brought to her mind
another day that would come far too soon.
Phillis spoke out this thought boldly as she
ran back to the cottage.

 I wanted to throw an old shoe for luck,
mammie,' she said, laughing, * only I knew
Nan would be so dreadfully shocked. How
happy they looked ! And Dick was making
such a fuss over her, bringing out his plaid to
wrap her in. Certainly he is much improved,
and looks five years older.'

Perhaps Dick shared Mrs. Challoner's

thought too, for an expression of deep gravity
crossed his face as he sat down by Nan  a
look that was tender, and yet wistful, as he
took her hand.

'Oh, Nan! it does seem so nice to have
you all to myself for a little  just you and I,
alone, and all the rest of the world outside
somewhere ! Do you know it is possible to
be almost too happy ?' And Dick sighed
from the very fulness of content.

Nan gave a merry little laugh at this.

Oh no ; to me it seems only natural to be
happy. When things were at their worst I
knew that they would come right some day ;
and I could not be quite miserable, even then.
It was hard, of course ; but when one is young,
one ought not to mind a little waiting. And
we have not waited long, have we, dear ?'
But to this Dick demurred.

It was the longest term I ever passed,' he
returned seriously. ' When a fellow is in that
sort of unsettled state, one cannot measure
time in the ordinary way. Well, the ordeal
is over, thank heaven !' And then he paused,
and continued a little thoughtfully : * What I
have to do now is to work hard and do my

best to deserve you. I shall never be worthy
of you, Nan ; I know that.'

I think you quite worthy of me she
answered softly, and now there were tears in
her eyes.

Oh no ; no fellow could be that,' he replied
decidedly. * I am well enough in my
way, and compared with other men I am not
so bad,' continued Dick, who had a sufficiently
good opinion of his own merits, in spite of
the humility of his speech ; ' but as to coming
up to you, Nan, by a long way, why, the
thing is impossible ! But I tell you this, it
helps a fellow to keep right and steady when
he believes in the goodness of the girl belonging
to him.'

You must not make me vain,' she half
whispered, and her lips trembled a little at
his praise. But he disregarded this remonstrance
and went on :

You have kept me right all my life. How
could I ever do a mean or a shabby action
to make you ashamed of me ? When I was
tempted once or twice  for idle young fellows
will be tempted  I used to say to myself, No,
Nan would not approve if she knew it. And

I held tight to this thought, and I am glad
now that I can look in your dear face and tell
you this. It makes me feel so happy And
indeed Dick's face was radiant.

They were almost sorry when the journey
was over ; they had so much to say to each
other. The wintry landscape was growing
gray and indistinct as they reached their
destination, and though Nan peered anxiously
into the darkness for a glimpse of each well-remembered
spot, she could only just discern
the dim outline of Glen Cottage before the
carriage turned in at the gates of Longmead.

Mr. Mayne had determined to pay his intended
daughter-in-law all becoming honours,
and as soon as the carriage-wheels were heard
he had the hall-door thrown back to show the
bright, welcoming light, and he himself descended
the flight of steps to the terrace.
Just as though I were a royal personage,'
laughed Nan. But she was a little flattered
by the compliment.

Most girls would have felt the awkwardness
of the situation, but not Nan. The moment
Dick assisted her out of the carriage she
walked up to his father, and put up her face to

be kissed in the most natural way. * It was
so good of you to ask me here  and I am so
glad to come she said simply.

There, there ! run in out of the cold was
all his answer ; and he patted her hand a
little awkwardly. But though his voice had
its usual gruffness, his manner was otherwise
kind. ' How are you, Dick ? I hope Roper
did not keep you waiting at the station, for
you are a quarter of an hour behind your
time.' And then he took his son's arm and
walked up the steps again.

Nan meanwhile had run through the hall
and into the warm, softly lighted drawing-room,
and there she soon found herself in
Mrs. Mayne's motherly arms. When the
gentlemen came in they interrupted quite a
little scene, for Mrs. Majore was actually
crying over the girl, and Nan was kissing
her.

Don't you think you had better stop that
sort of thing, Bessie,' observed her husband
drily, * and get Nan a cup of tea '? You
would like some tea, my dear, would you
not ?' in a more gracious voice.

Of course Nan said she would like some, just

to show her appreciation of his thoughtfulness ;
and then Dick said he should like some too, and
his father quizzed him a little as he rang the
bell. And as Mrs. Mayne obediently dried her
eyes at her husband's behest, they were soon
very happy and comfortable. When Nan's
cup was empty, Dick darted to take it, that it
might be replenished ; but his father was
before him.

All that evening Mr. Mayne waited on
Nan, quite ignoring his son's claims. He had
a special brand of champagne served that
Nan had once said she liked ; and he reminded
her of this, and pressed her to partake
of it.

This is to your health, my dear,' he said,
lifting his glass of port to his lips when
the servants had withdrawn ; ' and to yours
too, Dick;' and then Nan blushed very
becomingly, and Dick thanked him a little
gravely.

I do think the old boy has fallen in love
with you himself, for he has not let me come
near you all the evening,' whispered Dick
later on that night, pretending to grumble,
but in reality looking very happy.

He has been so good to me returned the
girl ; and she repeated this for Mrs. Mayne's
benefit, when at last the two women found
themselves free to indulge in a little talk.
Nan had coaxed her friend to sit beside her
fire for a few minutes, and then she had knelt
down beside her, wrapping her arms round
her in the most affectionate way.

Dear, dear Mrs. Mayne, how nice all this
is ; and how good Mr. Mayne has been tome
all this evening !'

'My Eichard never does things by halves,'
returned Mrs. Mayne proudly. * People
cannot always understand him, because his
manner is a little rough sometimes ; but I
know, and none better, his real goodness of
heart. Why, he is so pleased with himself
and you and Dick this evening, that he hardly
knows how to contain himself; but he is a
little awkward in showing it.'

Oh no ; I did not think him awkward
at all.'

I must say you behaved beautifully, Nan,
never seeming as though you remembered
that there had been anything amiss, but just
taking everything as he meant it. Of course

I knew how you would act ; I was not afraid
that I should be disappointed

Of course I could not do otherwise

And Dick, too, behaved so well, keeping
in the background just to give his father full
freedom. I must say I was pleased with him
too, for most young men are so thoughtless ;
but then his behaviour to his father has been
perfect throughout

I knew it would be,' whispered Nan.

I am sure it made my heart ache to see
him. Sometimes he would come in whistling
and pretending to be his old self, so lighthearted
and cheerful ; and all the time he was
fretting himself to death, as I told Richard.
Richard was terribly trying sometimes  you
know his way; but the boy bore it all so well.
It was not till the last, when they had that
walk, and Dick was goaded into positive
anger, that he ever lost his temper in the
least. I will say this. Nan, that though my
Dick may not be much to look at, he has the
sweetest temper and the kindest heart ;' and
so the simple woman ran on, and Nan listened,
well pleased.

"When Mr. Mayne came up to his dressing-room

that evening, this wife stole in after him,
and laid her hands on his shoulder, as he
stood thoughtfully contemplating the fire.

Well, Pilchard, won't you own she is
lovely now T

Humph, yes ; I suppose people would
call her pretty,' he returned, in his grudging
way. ' But I tell you what, Bessie,' suddenly
kindling into animation, * she is better than
handsome ; she is out-and-out good, and she
will make a man of Dick.'

God bless him, and her too !' whispered
the mother as she withdrew softly, but not
before she caught the sound of an ' Amen '
uttered distinctly in her husband's voice.

Nan made Dick take her to all their old
haunts the next morning ; but first of all
they went to Glen Cottage. Nan ran through
all the rooms with almost a child's glee ;
nothing could exceed her delight when Dick
showed her the drawing-room, with the new
conservatory opening out of it.

It always was a pretty room,' she said,
glancing round her ; ' but the conservatory
and the new furniture has quite transformed
it. How charmed mother and the girls will

be with it ! The whole house looks better
than when we were in it.'

Nonsense ! ' returned Dick stoutly. ' There
never was a house to compare with it. I
always loved it ; and so did you, Nan. What
a summer we shall have here, when I am
reading up for honours in the long vacation !
I mean to work pretty hard ; for when a

fellow has such an object as that ' and

then he looked at Nan meaningly ; but she
was not to be beguiled into that subject.

They were so happy, and so young, that
they could afford to wait a little ; and she did
not wish Dick to speak yet of that day that
was looming in the distance.

She could only be sure of one summer at
Glen Cottage ; but what a time they would
have ! She stood for a long while looking
out on the lawn, and calling up possible
visions of summer afternoons. The tennis -
ground was marked out already in her
imagination ; the tea-table in its old place
under the trees ; there was her mother
knitting in her favourite wicker-chair ; there
were Dulce and Phillis surrounded by their
friends.

Come away, Nan. Axe you moon-struck,
or dreaming T questioned Dick, drawing her
arm through his. ' Do you remember what
we have to do before luncheon ? And Vigo
looks so impatient for his run.' But even
Dick paused for a moment in the veranda to
show Nan the rose she had picked for him
just there, and which still lay in his pocketbook.


All her old friends crowded round Nan to
welcome her back ; and great were the
rejoicing when they heard that Glen Cottage
was to be in the Challoners' possession again.
Carrie Paine and Adelaide Sartoris called
first. Carrie embraced Nan with tearful
effusion ; she was an honest, warm-hearted
creature. But Adelaide looked at her a little
curiously.

Oh, my dear, the scandal that has been
talked about you all !' she said, in a
mysterious tone. ' Carrie and I would not
believe it  would we, Car ? We told people
to hold their tongues, and not talk such nonsense.'


Never mind that now, Addie,' returned
Nan cheerfully. She felt she must be careful

of what she said, for Dick's sake. ' We
have had our worries, and have worked as
better people have before us ; but now it is
all over.'

 But is it true that your cousin. Sir Henry
Challoner, has bought Gilsbank ?' broke in
Carrie. ' Tell us about him, dear. Addie
thought she saw him once. Is he a tall man,
with red hair T

Very red hair,' responded Nan, laughing.

*Then I did see him,' replied Miss Sartoris
decidedly. ' He is quite a giant. Nan ; but
he looks very good-natured.'

Miss Sartoris was just engaged to a dapper
little Colonel in the Hussars, so she could
afford to be quizzical on the subject of Sir
Harry's inches ; but Carrie, who was at
present unattached, was a little curious about
the future master of Gilsbank.

After this. Nan called at Fitzroy Lodge,
and Dick went with her. Lady Fitzroy,
who was looking very pretty and delicate,
welcomed Nan with the greatest kindness.
"When Lord Fitzroy came in with the rest of
the gentlemen from hunting, he questioned
Nan very closely about their new neighbour.

Sir Henry Clialloner ; and made a great
many kind inquiries after his favourite, Miss
Phillis.

So we are to have you all back, eh T he
queried pleasantly. * Well, I call that good
news. I am bound that Evelyn is as pleased
to hear it as I am.'

I am very much pleased,' returned Lady
Fitzroy graciously. ' And you must tell your
mother so, with my love. Percival, will you
ring for some more hot water, please ? I
shall not be long ; but I am going to take
Miss Challoner upstairs to see our boy.'

Nan knew that a great privilege was being
conferred on her as she followed Lady Fitzroy
into the grand nursery, where the tiny heir
lay in his bassinette.

Is he not just like Fitzroy T exclaimed
the proud young mother, as they stood looking
down on the red crumpled features of the
new-comer. ' Nurse says she has never seen
such a striking likeness.'

He is a darling !' exclaimed Nan, who
was, like other girls, a devout baby-worshipper
; and then they discoursed very
eloquently on his infantile beauties.

VOL. III. 59

It was after this that Lady Fitzroy congratulated
Nan on her engagement, and kissed
her in quite a sisterly way.

Fitzroy and I do not think him half good
enough for you she said, very prettily.
But no one who knows Mr. Mayne can fail
to like him ; he is so thoroughly genuine and
nice. "Will the engagement be a long one,
Miss Challoner T

*Not so very long,' Nan returned, blushing.
Dick had to read for honours ; but, when he
had taken his degree, his father had promised
to make things straight for them, while Dick
ate his dinners and read for the Bar.'

He is to be a barrister, then ?' asked Lady
Fitzroy, in surprise. ' You must not think
me inquisitive, but I thought Mr. Mayne was
so very well off.'

So he is,' replied Nan, smiling. ' Quite
rich, I believe ; but Dick would not like an
idle life, and during his father's lifetime he
can only expect a moderate income.'

 You will live in London, then ?'

Oh yes ; I suppose so,' was Nan's answer.
But we have not talked much about that yet.
Dick must work hard for another year, and

after that I believe things are to be settled
And then Lady Fitzroy kissed her again, and
they went downstairs.

Nan wrote home that she was sited like a
queen, and that Dick grumbled sadly at having
her so little to himself ; but then Dick was
much given to that sort of good-natured
grumbling.

The visit was necessarily a very brief one,
as term-time was approaching, and Dick had
to go up to Oxford. On the last morning he
took Nan for a walk down to Sandy Lane.
Vigo and the other dogs were with them, and
at the point where the four roads met, Dick
stopped and leant his arms over a gate.

It will seem a long time to Easter, Nan,'
he said, rather lugubriously.

Oh no,* she replied brightly to this ; ' you
will have my letters  such long ones, Dick 
and you know Mr. Mayne has promised to
bring Phillis and me down for a couple of
days. We are to stay at the Randolph, and
of course we shall have afternoon tea in your
rooms.'

Yes ; I will ask Hamilton and some of the
other fellows to meet you, I want all my

592

friends to see you, Nan.' And as Dick
thought of the glory of this introduction, and
of the envy of Hamilton and the other fellows,
his brow cleared and his old spirits returned.

I shall think of nothing but my work and
those letters, Nan,' were his last words. * I
am determined that next summer shall see
you my wife.' His voice dropped over the
last word almost shyly ; but Nan saw a great
brightness come into his eyes.

You must not work too hard,' was all her
answer to this, as she moved gently away
from him. But her heart beat a little faster
at his words. No ; she would only have
another summer at Glen Cottage. She knew
that, and then the new life would lie before
them, which she and Dick were to live
together.

MRS. SPAESIT S POODLE,

HILE Nan was being feted and
petted at Longmead, Mattie's
visit was dragging heavily to its
close. Since the evening of the tea-party
things had been more unsatisfactory than ever.
Archie and Grace were a good deal out.
Grace was perpetually at the Friary, and
Archie had resumed his old habit of dropping
in there for a morning or evening chat. Sir
Harry came almost daily, and often spent his
disengaged hours with them ; but Mattie
never saw hint for a moment alone. Grace
was always in the room, and his conversation
was chiefly addressed to her. When Mattie
dropped sadly out of the talk, or sat silent in

her corner, lie did not in this old kind fashion
try to include her in the conversation;
indeed, he rarely noticed her, except in his
brief leave-taking. It hurt Mattie inexpressibly
to be thus ignored by her old friend, for
from the first his cordiality had had a sunshiny
influence over her  he had been so good to
her  so thoughtful for her comfort before
Grace came ; but now he seemed to forget
sometimes that such a person as Mattie even
existed. Was it because Grace's fair, serious
face had bewitched him, or was there anything
on his mind ? for more than once Mattie
thought he seemed absent and ill at ease.

Mattie could not understand it at all. She
was not a very acute little person, neither was
she over-sensitive by nature, but this sudden
coldness on Sir Harry's part was wounding
and perplexing in the extreme. Had she
done anything to offend him ? Mattie wondered,
or was he simply bored by her, as most people
were ?

Once Archie had snubbed her very severely
in his presence ; something had put him out,
and he had spoken to Mattie as though no
one were present but their two selves. It

was Grace who called him so gently to order,
and made him feel ashamed of himself. Sir
Harry did not even seem to notice it  he had
a paper in his hand, and he went on reading it.
But as Mattie left the room she heard him
speaking to Grace in his usual way about
some political question or other.

Mattie cried bitterly in her room that day.
Somehow, she had never taken Archie's snubbing
so much to heart before. How could he
speak to her like that, she thought ? What
would Sir Harry think of her, and him too ?
Archie's conscience pricked him when he saw
the traces of tears on Mattie's face that afternoon,
and he was very kind to her all the remainder
of the day ; but he did not apologize
for his words  no one ever did apologize to
Mattie. But to his surprise, and Grace's too,
Mattie's sad face did not clear.

It was her last afternoon but one at the
Vicarage, and Mattie was sitting alone. All
the morning she and Grace had been packing
together, for Grace in her sensible way had
begged her sister not to leave things for the
last day. It would tire her for her journey,
she said ; and the Challoners were coming to

spend Mattie's last evening with her at the
Vicarage ; and there were the Middletons probably
coming for an afternoon visit, andsoMattie
had better keep herself free for her friends.
Mattie had assented to this, and she had been
very grateful to Grace for all the help she had
given her. Her boxes were ready for cording,
and her little parting gifts for the servants
laid ready labelled in her drawers, and nothing
remained for her busy hands to do.

It was a cold, cheerless afternoon ; a cutting
north wind and a gray cloudy sky made the
fireside all the more tempting by comparison ;
but Mattie knew there was one duty unfulfilled
that she ought to perform. She had promised
to call and say good-bye to an old acquaintance
of hers who lived at Rock Building.

Mrs. Chamberlain was not a favourite with
most people ; she was an invalid of somewhat
uncertain temper, and most of her friends felt
her society an infliction on their patience.
Mattie, who was very good-natured, had often
done kindly little offices for her, sitting with
her for an hour or two at a time, and teaching
her some new stitch, to beguile her tedious
and often painful days.

Mrs. Chamberlain would feel herself
aggrieved if Mattie disappointed her. And
she never had stayed at home for the
weather ; only she was lazy  tired perhaps,
from her packing, and reluctant to move.

Sir Harry was in the study, she knew ; she
had heard his voice some time ago. He often
turned in there of his own accord, or perhaps
Archie had waylaid him and brought him in,
for they were excellent friends now; Grace was
there, of course, but Mattie had hesitated to
join them  none of them wanted her, she
said bitterly to herself.

A dim hope that Grace might come in
search of her, or that even Sir Henry might
saunter in by-and-by, and ask for a cup of
tea in his old way, had kept Mattie in her
place ; but now it was getting a little late,
and perhaps after all Grace would ring, and
have the tea in there, as she had done once
before ; and it was no use waiting. And so,
when Mattie reached this point, she hurried
upstairs, and put on her hat and thick jacket ;
and then after a moment's hesitation opened
the study-door.

It was just the scene she pictured. Sir

Harry was in the big chair in front of the
blazing fire, and Grace in her low wicker seat,
facing him, with a Chinese screen in her
hand. Archie was standing on the rug, with
his elbow against the narrow wooden mantelpiece,
and all three were talking merrily. Sir
Harry stopped in the middle of a laugh, as
Mattie entered, and shook hands with her a
little gravely.

How comfortable you all look,' faltered
Mattie. The words came in spite of her
efforts not to say them.

Then come and join us, my dear,' returned
Archie, with unusual affability. * Grace was
just wondering what you were doing.'

I was in the drawing-room alone. No, I
cannot sit down, Archie, thank you. I am
just going to bid old Mrs. Chamberlain goodbye
; she is expecting me, and I must not
disappoint her.'

Oh, but it is not fit for you,' remonstrated
Grace. ' Sir Harry says the wind is piercing ;
do put off your visit until tomorrow, Mattie,
and we will go together.'

Fie, Miss Grace ! never put off until
tomorrow what can be done to-day,' observed

Sir Any, in his joking voice. * What is it
the copy-books say  is it procrastination or
money that is the root of all evil T

Sir Harry is quite right, and I must go
stammered Mattie, made quite desperate by
this joke ; he knew how the wind was
sweeping over the gray sea, and yet he
had not said a word about her remaining.
Poor Mattie ! a miserable choking feeling
came into her throat, as she closed the door
on another laugh, and struggled along in the
teeth of the wind. Another time she would
not have minded it, for she was hardy by
nature; but now the cold seemed to freeze
her very heart; she looked quite blue and
pinched when she entered Mrs. Chamberlain's
drawing-room. It seemed to Mattie as though
hours had passed before she brought her visit
to a close, and yet she had been sitting there
only three-quarters of an hour before she
took her leave. The old lady was very
gracious this afternoon ; she pressed Mattie
again and again to wait a little until Sallee
brought up the tea, and a nice hot cake she
was baking. But Mattie steadily refused even
these tempting delicacies ; she was not cold

any longer, she said ; but it was growing
late, or the afternoon was darker than usual.
And then she wished her old friend good-bye 
oh, good-bye for such a long time, Mattie
thought  and sallied forth bravely into the
wind again.

It had lulled a little, but the scene before
her was very desolate ; just the gray expanse
of sea, with the white line of surge breaking
into the shore, and here and there a wave
tossing up its foamy head in the distance.
The air seemed full of that continuous low
rolling and splashing of breakers on the
beach ; a sea-gull was flying inland ; the
parade looked white and wind-bleached  nota
creature in sight but a coastguard on duty,
moving backwards and forwards, in a rather

forlorn manner, except here Mattie turned

her head quickly; yes, a little beyond there
was a man in a rough pilot's coat, looking
out seaward  a nautical man, Mattie thought,
by the way he stood, as though summer gales
were blowing about his ears.

Mattie passed quite close to him, for the
wind drifted her a little as she did so. He
turned coolly round and confronted her.

Sir Harry ! Ob, I did not know you in
the least faltered Mattie, standing still in her
surprise.

I dare say not he replied quietly ; ' you
have never seen me in this costume before,
and I bad my back turned towards you. I
saw you coming, though, walking as unsteadily
as a duck in a storm. What a time
you have been, Miss Mattie ! You ladies are
so fond of a gossip

Were you waiting for me ?' she asked
rather breathlessly, and then coloured painfully
at her question. How absurd ! Of
course he was not waiting fov her ; his hotel
was just opposite, and he was probably taking
a constitutional before his dinner. ' Mrs.
Chamberlain pressed me to take tea with her
she went on, by way of saying something,
but I told her I would rather go home.'

Miss Grace was just ringing for tea when
I left,' he returned. ' No wonder you look
cold or like a starved robin. Miss Mattie.
Why are you walking so fast ? there is no
hurry, is there ? I think you owe me some
amends for keeping me standing for an hour
in this bitter wind. There, why don't you

take my arm and hold on, or yon will be
blown away ?'

Mattie always did as she was bidden, and
Sir Harry's tone was a little peremptory. He
had been waiting for her then  he had not
quite forgotten her. Mattie began to feel a
little less chilled and numb. If he would
only say a kind word to her, she thought she
could go away more happily.

 I am thinking about that rejected cup of
tea,' he said suddenly, when they had walked
for a moment in silence ; ' it will be all cleared
away at the Vicarage, and you do look so cold,
Miss Mattie.'

Oh no, not very,' she corrected.

But I say that you do,' he persisted, in
quite a determined manner ; ' you are cold,
and tired, and miserable  there !'

I  I am not particularly miserable ;' but
there were tears in Mattie 's voice as she uttered
this little fib. 'I don't quite like going away
and saying good-bye to people.'

Won't your people be kind to you ?'
Then, changing his tone, ' I tell you what,
Miss Mattie, no one is in a hurry for you at
home, and I don't see why wee should not

enjoy ourselves. You remember my old friend
Mrs. Sparsit, who lives up at Rose Cottage 
you know I saved her poodle from drowning
one rough day, when some boys got hold of
it  well, Mrs. Sparsit and I are first-rate
friends, and I will ask her to give us some tea

 Oh no,' faltered Mattie, quite shocked at
this ; for what would Grace say ? ' I only know
Mrs. Sparsit a very little.'

What does that matter ?'* returned Sir
Harry obstinately ; * I am always dropping in
myself for a chat. Now, it is no use your
making any objection, Miss Mattie, for I have
got a lot to say to you, and I don't mean to
part with you yet. They will only think you
are still at Rock Building, and I suppose you
are old enough to act without Miss Grace's
advice sometimes.'

Mattie hung her head without replying to
this. What a feeble, helpless sort of creature
he must think her ! his voice seemed to express
a good-humoured sort of contempt. Well, he
was right ; she was old enough to do as she
pleased, and she would like very much to go
with him to Mrs. Sparsit's. It was rather a
reckless proceeding, perhaps ; but Mattie was

too down and miserable to argue it out, so she
walked beside Sir Harry in a perfectly unresisting
manner. Perhaps this was the last
time she would enjoy his company for a longtime
 she must make the most of it.

We need not walk quite so fast he said,
checking her, for she was hurrying again.
Look here, Miss Mattie, I want to ask you a
queer sort of question, if only this confounded
wind will let me make myself heard. Please
don't laugh ; I don't want to be laughed at,
for I am quite in earnest. But have you any
special objection to red hair ?  I meaup do
you particularly dislike it ?'

Mattie opened her eyes rather widely at
this. ' No, I rather like it,' she returned,
without a moment's hesitation, and quite in
the dark as to his possible meaning.

Oh, that is all right,' he returned cheerfully.
' You won't believe it. Miss Mattie, but
though I am such a great big fellow, I am as
bashful as anything ; and I have always had a
fancy that no one would have me because of
my red hair.'

'What an idea!' observed Mattie, with a
little laugh, for she thought this so droll, and

had not the dimmest idea of his real purpose
in asking her such a question.

Don't laugh, please,' he remonstrated, * for
I am quite serious ; I never was more serious
in my life  for this sort of thing is so awkward
for a fellow. Then, Miss Mattie, you
won't say *No" to me.'

Mattie stared ; but Sir Harry's face, red
and embarrassed as it was, gave her no clue
to his meaning.

I don't think you understand me,' he said,
a little impatiently ; ' and yet I am sure I am
putting it very plainly. You don't object tome,
do you, Miss Mattie ? I am sure I will
do my best to make you happy. Gilsbank is
a pretty place, and we shall have Aunt
Catherine and the girls near us. We shall
all be as merry as larks, if you will only
promise to marry me, for I have liked
you from the first ; I have indeed. Miss
Mattie.

Sir Hari7 was a gentleman, in spite of his
rough ways. He understood in a moment,
when Mattie's answer to this was a very feeble
clutch at his arm, as though her strength where
deserting her. What with the sudden surprise

VOL. III. 60

of these words, and the force of the
wind, the poor little woman felt herself
reeling.

Stand here for a moment, and I will
shelter you from the wind. No, don't speak ;
just hold on, and keep quiet  there is no
hurry. No one shall scold you, if I can
help it. I am afraid '  speaking as gently
as to a child  ' that I have been a little
rough and sudden with you. Do you feel
faint ? I never saw you look so pale. What
a thoughtless brute I have been !'

No  oh no,' panted Mattie ;  only I am
so giddy, and  so happy.' The last words
half whispered, but he caught them. ' Are
you sure you really mean this. Sir Harry ?'

As sure as that the wind blows,' he returned
cheerfully. ' Well, that's settled.
You and I are to be in the same boat for
good and all eh. Miss Mattie ? Now let us
walk on ; and I won't say another word until
we reach Mrs. Sparsit's.'

Perhaps he had taken this resolution
because he saw that Mattie found speech
impossible. Her very footsteps tottered as
she struggled against the opposing wind.

Only the arm on which she leant seemed to
give her strength ; and yet Mattie no longer
shivered in the cutting blast. She was no
longer cold, and numb, and desolate. Something
wonderful and incredible and altogether
unreal had befallen her  something that had
turned her dizzy with happiness, and which
she could not in the least believe. All she
knew was that he had told her that no one
should scold her now.

Here we are !' exclaimed Sir Harry,
stopping at a trim little cottage, with a side-view
of the sea ; ' and, by Jove ! there is the
poodle himself at the window. How do you
do, Mrs. Sparsit ?' as a pleasant, wrinkled
dame appeared on the threshold. ' You
know Miss Drummond, I believe ? though
not as well as you know me. How is
Popples ? Oh, there you are, old fellow 
ready to give me a paw as usual ! Look at
him. Miss Mattie ! Now, Mrs. Sparsit,' ina
coaxing voice, ' this lady is dreadfully

tired ; and I know your kettle is boiling '

but here Mrs. Sparsit interrupted him.

Oh yes, indeed, Sir Harry ; and you shall
have some tea directly. Dear me, Miss

602

Drummond, you do look poorly, to be sure !
Let me stir the fire a little, and draw out the
couch. Betty has gone out to see her sick
mother, Sir Harry ; but if you don't mind
my leaving you a minute, while I just brew
the tea ;' and, without waiting for his answer,
the worthy creature bustled off to her tiny
kitchen, leaving Popples to entertain her guests

Sir Harry closed the door, and then he
again shook hands with the poodle ; after
which he helped Mattie to divest herself of
her warm jacket, and placed her in a snug
corner of the old-fashioned couch.

You will be all right directly,' he said, ashe
sat down beside her.  The wind was too
strong ; and I was a little sudden  wasn't I,
Mattie ?' and now the colour began to come
into Mattie 's face.

Sir Harry found plenty to tell her as Mrs.
Sparsit brewed the tea and prepared the hot
buttered cakes.

Mattie shed tears of pure happiness when
she heard from his own lips how good and
unselfish and amiable he thought her ; and
how he had liked her from the first in a sort
of way  * not quite the right way, you know,'

explained Sir Harry candidly ; ' but everyone
was so hard on you, and you bore it so
well, and were such a good little woman, that
I quite longed to stand your friend ; and we
were friends  were we not, Mattie ? And
then somehow it came to me what a nice

little wife you would make ; and so ' but

here Mattie timidly interrupted him.

But Grace  I thought you seemed to like
Grace best !'

Sir Harry laughed outright at this ; but he
had the grace to look ashamed of himself.

So I did like her very much ; but I was
only trying you, Mattie. I was not sure
how much you liked me ; but you seemed
such a miserable little Cinderella amongst
them all that I could hardly keep it up. If
they snub you now, they will have to answer
to me ;' and at this moment Mrs. Sparsit
entered with the tea-tray.

Dinner was nearly over at the Vicarage
when Mattie' s step was heard in the hall.
Archie, who was the soul of punctuality,
frowned a little when the sound reached his ear.

This is too bad of Mattie,' he said, rather
fretfully. ' She has no right to put us to

such inconvenience. I suppose we must have
the fish up again ?'

Miss Drummond desires that you will goon
with your dinner, sir,' observed the maid,
entering at that moment. ' She has had a
late tea, and will not require anything more.'

Very strange!' fumed Archie; but he
was a little pacified by the message. But
Grace slightly elevated her eyebrows with an
expression of surprise. Such independence
was new in Mattie.

The brother and sister had adjourned to
the drawing-room, and Archie was about to
ring for his coffee before Mattie made her
appearance.

Grace uttered a little exclamation when
she saw her sister.

My dear Mattie, we have no visitors
coming in this evening ! Why have you put
on your best gown? You extravagant child!'
for Mattie had come into the room rustling in
her green silk dress, and her little dark face
glowing from the wind. * She looked almost
pretty,' as Grace said afterwards ; but, at
her sister's quizzical observation, Mattie
blushed and seemed confused.

It is no use saving it,' she began. ' Sir
Harry is coming in by-and-by. And, oh,
Archie ! he told me to say it, but I don't
know how to do it.' And then, to Archie's
intense surprise  for she had never done
such a thing in her life  she suddenly threw
her arms round his neck. ' Oh, Archie ! he
says you are never to scold me again  any
of you,' she sobbed, ' because I belong to
him now. And he  Sir Harry, I mean  is
so good to me ; and I am so happy. And
won't you wish me joy  both of you ? And
what  what will mother say?' finished
Mattie, as though this were the climax of
everything.

Good heavens, Mattie !' gasped Archie ;
but he did not shake her off  on the contrary,
he kissed her very kindly. ' Do you mean you
are going to marry Sir Harry Challoner ?'

He means to marry me,' returned Mattie,
smiling, in spite of her tears ; and then
Grace came forward, and took her in her
arms.

I am so glad, dear Mattie,' she whispered
soothingly. ' Of course we none of us expected
it; and we are all very much surprised.

Oh dear ! how happy mother will
be!'

*I tell you what exclaimed Archie, in
great excitement. ' I will take you down
myself to Lowder Street, and see what she
says. They will all be out of their senses with
joy ; and, upon my word, Mattie, I never
was so pleased about anything in my life.
He is a right down good fellow, I am sure of
that ; and you are not such a bad little thing
yourself, Mattie. There I'

MATTIE IN A NEW CHARACTER.

she family at Lowder Street were
all gathered together when the
travellers made then appearance.
There was a general shout of delight when
Archie's face peered in at them from the
dusky hall over Mattie's shoulder. Mrs.
Drummond's thin face flushed with the unexpected
pleasure.

Oh, Archie ! my dear hoy, I never thought
you would surprise us in this way !' she said,
throwing down her work with tremulous
hands. She kissed Mattie affectionately ; but
that dark glow of tenderness in her eyes was
for Archie. In spite of her ordinary undemonstrativeness,
she seldom spoke to him without

that involuntary softening of her voice. However
much she loved her other children, her
maternal passion was reserved for her firstborn
son.

How naughty of you to steal a march onus
in this manner !' she said playfully. * We
have only prepared a meat-tea for Mattie, because
I knew she would not mind ; but if you
had telegraphed I would have had dinner
ready for you, Archie.'

Stuff  nonsense ! Why need he have telegraphed
? I suppose what is good enough for
Mattie and the rest of us is good enough for
Archie !'

Mr. Drummond spoke testily as he put
down the paper. These hints about the late
dinners always nettled him. His renunciation
of them years ago had been a heavy piece of
self-denial, for he was a man rather fond of
creature comforts  he had done it for his children's
sake  but it was more than flesh and
blood could bear that this renounced luxury
should be served for his son's benefit. Was
he not as good as Archie, though he had not
been to a University and become fellow of
his college ?

Father is quite right returned Archie
cheerfully. ' I would not telegraph, because
I wanted to surprise you ; and I knew you
were such a good manager, mother, that you
would have plenty of aired sheets ready for
my bed. Of course, what is good enough for
Mattie is right for me. As we are both as
hungry as hunters, we shall do justice to anything
you have prepared.'

There is only some cold meat and some
ham and eggs,' observed Mrs. Drummond, a
little plaintively. She did not dare anger her
husband further by proposing even a chop, for
she knew how touchy he was about Archie's
fastidiousness ; but if she could have had her
own way she would have killed the fatted calf
for this dearest son. Nothing was too good
for him in her eyes ; and yet for the sake of
tranquillity she dared not even hazard the
question of a chop.

Cold meat  that is just what I should
like,' replied Archie, with excellent sang-froid.
He detested that stock-dish of the Lowder
Street larder  ham and eggs. The eggs were
dubious, he considered  not actually new-laid,
but a little suggestive of lime. ' But there.

you must not give me all your attention,
mother he continued. ' I have brought
Mattie home, you see, and you have never
told her even how she looks.'

She looks very well,' replied Mrs. Drummond.
In spite of her anxiety about Archie
she had been looking at her daughter more
than once with puzzled eyes. There was
something different about her, she thought.
It was hardly like Mattie to come in so quietly
among them all and take her place beside her
father. Mattie seldom did anything without
a fuss ; it was her ordinary way to stand
amongst them chattering as fast as her tongue
would go, until some one reminded her that
it was time for her to take off her hat and
jacket or she would be late for tea. But
to-night Mattie had hardly opened her lips,
except to answer her father's questions about
the journey. She had kissed her sisters very
quietly, and had asked after Isabel, and had
then proposed of her own accord to go upstairs.


 Clara, go up with your sister. No, not
Laura ; you will all get chattering, and then
we shall be kept waiting. Isabel is upstairs.

Archie ; she has come in to sit with us this
evening, as Ellis has to go to a business
dinner. He will call for her on his way.'

'I am very glad she is here,' returned
Archie, ' for I have to go back by the early
train tomorrow. Ah, there she is. Well,
how are you, Belle ?' greeting her affectionately
as she came up to him rather shyly.
Archie could hardly help smiling at the contrast
between Isabel's brilliant evening toilette
and his other sister's brown stuff dress. It
was a little trying to his gravity to see her
putting on such pretty little airs of matronly
dignity. Mrs. Ellis Burton was an important
person now  that was sufficiently obvious 
the plump little figure was most lavishly
adorned. But the round, childish face was
certainly very pretty ; and as every other
sentence brought in 'Ellis,' and as Ellis's
opinion appeared always right in her eyes,
Archie deduced that his sister was satisfied
with her choice.

Oh dear, Mattie ! how droll it is to see
you home again !' exclaimed Susie, who was
noted for making awkward speeches. ' And
how funny you look beside Isabel !'

We are very glad to have lier back returned
Mrs. Drummond, in lier repressive
tones. She was just refilling her teapot from
the urn, but she found opportunity to shake
her head at Susie. ' People do not generally
look smart in their travelling-dress ; but I
think she looks very nice. Had you not a
commoner gown, my dear ? That looks almost
too good for the purpose,' for Mrs. Drummond's
sense of economy was a little shocked
by perceiving that Mattie's gown was a new
one.

It is very well made observed Isabel
critically. * I am so glad, Mattie, that you
have given up that hideous plaid ; it never
suited you.'

If I had been you, I would have travelled
in it,' persisted Mrs. Drummond, who never
could remember that Mattie was over thirty,
and might possibly have opinions of her own.

Archie listened to all this with great amusement.


Don't you think it is about time I started
a pleasant subject, Mattie ?' he asked,
laughing. ' Have you finished your tea, my
dear ? for I do not want to spoil your

appetite; but time is getting on, and '

here he glanced at the timepiece.

Everyone stared at this, for Archie had
never spoken in exactly that way to Mattie
before ; and as he did so, Mattie's cheeks
were burning. But what was their surprise,
when Archie suddenly rose from his seat and
laid his hand kindly on Mattie's shoulder.

She is too shy to tell you herself; I have
come all these miles to do it for her. Isabel,
you need not look so consequential. Ellis is
a good fellow, I dare say, but our little Mattie
has done better for herself than even you.
Mother, you have achieved a success in one
of your seven daughters : let me introduce
to you the future Lady Challoner !' and then,
still keeping his hand upon her shoulder, he
looked blandly round on them all.

Well, I am sure !' from Isabel, half-pouting;
but no one else spoke except Mr.
Drummond.

What does this mean, archie ? Can't
you speak for yourself, my girl ? Is this a
joke ? Does he mean something amusing T
asked the father ; but his lip quivered a little
  if it should be true  if it were no joke !

It is just as Archie says !' replied Mattie
timidly, not daring to raise her eyes. * Sir
Harry asked me to marry him, and I said
yes, because  because he was always so good
to me ;' and here Mattie laughed a little
hysterically. ' And I did not think you would
object, father.'

Me object !' replied Mr. Drummond,
oblivious of grammar just then. ' Why, my
little Mattie, what news is this ? Come here
and kiss me, my girl. I am proud of you  I
am delighted to think a daughter of mine is
going to make such a splendid match. Why
don't you speak to her, my dear ?' addressing
his wife, with some excitement. ' Bless my
soul  Lady Challoner ! my plain little Mattie
Lady Challoner ! Is it possible ? Why, you
were telling us, Archie, what a Croesus this
Sir Henry was, and how he had just bought
quite a fine place for himself.'

'Mattie, come here.' Her children could
hardly recognise their mother's voice, it was
so broken, and the tears were running down
her cheeks, though not one of them remembered
seeing her cry before. Mattie never
felt her triumph greater; never understood

the magnificence of her own success, until
she saw those tears, and felt the presence of
her mother's arms round her. Never since
the child Mattie had had to make way for the
new-bon brother, and had toddled away with
the never-forgotten words, 'Mammy's arms
are full; no room for Mattie now,' had she
laid her head upon that mother's shoulder to
indulge in the good ciy that was needed to
relieve her. Isabel looked almost affronted
as she twirled her diamond rings round her
plump fingers. "When she and Ellis had been
engaged, her mother had not made all this
fuss. And Mattie was such an old thing ; and
it was so ridiculous  and her father seemed
on the verge of crying too. ' But then,' as
Susie said afterwards, ' Belle did not like her
consequence to be set aside ; and she and
Ellis were just nobodies at all.'

No one enjoyed the scene so much as
Archie ; that was how his mother ought to be
with her girls. Nevertheless, he interrupted
them ruthlessly:

Don't make your eyes too red, Mattie ;
remember who will be in by-and-by.' And as
she started up at this and began to smooth her

VOL. III. 61 .

rumpled hair, lie explained to them generally
that they had not travelled alone ; Sir Harry
had accompanied them to Leeds, and was at
present dining, he believed, at the Star Hotel,
where he had bespoken a room. ' He thought
it best to make himself known personally to
you ; and as Mattie raised no objection, he
announced his intention of calling this evening
' but before Archie could finish his

sentence, or the awestruck domestic announce
him properly. Sir Harry himself was amongst
them all, shaking hands with everybody down
to Dottie.

And really, for a shy man he did his part
very well ; he seemed to take his welcome for
granted, and beamed on them all most genially.

'I suppose the parson has already introduced
me,' he said, when Mr. Drummond
senior held out his hand. ' What a lot of
you there are !' he continued, as he reached
Dottie, who, dreadfully frightened at his size,
tried to hide behind Susie. Dottie compared
him in her own mind to one of their favourite
giants. * He was so dreadfully like Fee-forum
in 'jack the Giant-killer," ' she pouted,
when Mattie afterwards took her to task ;

when he kissed me I thought he was going
to eat me up.'

Mattie's dark little face lit up with shy
happiness when she saw him sit dovn beside
her mother and talk to her in his frank,
pleasant way. In her eyes he was nothing
less than an Angel of Light. True, the room
had never looked so small and shabh} as it
looked to-night, but what did that matter to
Mattie ?  the poor little Cinderella in the
brown gown had found her prince. By-and-by
the pumpkin-coach would fetch her to a
grand house, she would have jewels and fine
clothes -everything that the heart of woman
could desire ; but it may be doubted if such
thoughts ever crossed Mattie's mind. That he
had chosen her, this was the miracle ; that
she was never to be scolded, and laughed at,
and teased ; that he had stooped to her, this
noble, great-hearted man, to raise her from her
humbleness ; that he could care for her, in
spite of her plainness and her many faults. No
wonder if such happiness almost beautified
Mattie, as she sat a little apart, surrounded by
her young sisters.

Mrs. Drummond's stern face glowed with

Gl 2

pleasure when Sir Harry in a few simple words
spoke to her of his pride in winning her
daughter. Could it be her homely, old-fashioned
little Mattie of whom he was speaking,
whose unselfishness and goodness he
praised so highly ! ' I have never known a
more beautiful nature ; she does not seem tome
to have an unkind thought of anyone.
All my cousins love her. If you will trust
her to me, I think I can promise, as far as a
man can, that her life shall be a happy one.'
No wonder if the mother's eyes filled with
joyous tears at such words as these.

Mattie dear,' said Sir Harry to her the
next day, when they found themselves alone 
a rather difficult thing to achieve in the
crowded household, but Mrs. Drummond had
just left the room  ' I have been talking to
your mother. She is a sensible woman, and
she thinks in six weeks everything can be
ready ; what do you say ?'

If mother thinks so, I suppose she is
right returned Mattie, very much confused
by this sudden appeal to her opinion. Sir
Harry had already importuned for a speedy
marriage, and she had in much trepidation

referred him to her mother, feeling herself unequal
to the task of answering him.

'Yes, your mother is a sensible woman,'
continued Sir Harry, taking no notice of her
confusion. * She knows that a great house full
of servants is more than a man can manage
alone; and so, as I told her that Gilsbank
was ready, and its master waiting, she was
quite of my opinion that there should be no
delay. You see, Mattie,' in a tone of great
gentleness, ' though I am very fond of you, I
cannot help feeling stifled in a small house
full of people. There is no getting you to
myself, or being comfortable; and a man of
my size feels out of place among a lot of girls.
So, if you are willing, as of course you are,'
very coaxingly, ' and I am willing, we mayas
well get the thing over. It takes a good
deal out of a fellow to go through this sort of
thing properly, and I don't fancy I hit it off
well ; so we will say this day six weeks. And
tomorrow you will be a good little woman,
and let me go back to my comfortable quarters
at Hadleigh, for one breathes only smoke
here ; and how you have always borne it all
these years is a mystery to me.'

So Mattie let him go cheerfully. She had
never been selfish in her life, and of course
she spoke no word to dissuade him ; but
though she had but few letters from him, and
those of the briefest possible kind  for Sir
Harry was not fond of penmanship  those
six weeks were far from being unhappy.
How could they be, when they were all so
good to her, Mattie thought ; when her
opinion was deferred to even by her mother,
and when her brothers and sisters treated her
with such respect and affection ?

Mattie had no sense of the ludicrous, or
she would have laughed at the change in
Clyde's tone, or at the way Fred boxed
Dottie's ears for speaking rudely to Mattie ;
in their eyes the future Lady Challoner was a
person of the utmost importance. The boys
vied with each other in waiting on her ; the
girls were always ready with their little
services. Mattie felt herself almost overwhelmed
sometimes.

Oh, mother, ask them not to do it !' she
said one day, with tears in her eyes. ' I am
only Mattie ; I am not different  I never
shall be different. I shall want to wait on

you all my life  on you and all of
them !'

It is for them to wait on you more !'
returned her mother gravely. 'I am afraid
they have not always been good to you, and
they want to make up for it

But not all the attentions she received
could move Mattie from her own humble
estimate of herself ; and yet in some ways, if
she could have seen herself, she would have
owned there was a difference. Mattie no
longer fussed and fidgeted ; always sweet-natured,
she grew placid in her new happiness.

I consider myself a fortunate fellow, for I
have the dearest little wife in the world,' Sir
Harry said to her a few days after they were
married, when Mattie had as usual said something
disparaging of herself. ' Never mind
what you think, so long as I am satisfied ;
and it is very rude of you to be always finding
fault with my choice  aye. Lady Challoner !'

Phillips S FAVOURITE MONTH,

Archie had been persuaded to remain
until the following evening,
and to take the night-mail up to
London. * You know you always sleep so
soundly in a railway-carriages his mother had
said, with her eyes full of pleading.

Perhaps so ; but all the same, it is dreary
work to be shunted on to a platform in the
middle of night, and to have to find your way
across London to catch a Sussex train Butin
spite of his grumbling he had remained.
For once it was difficult to tear himself away
from that happy family party.

But all through that night he scarcely
closed his eyes, but sat staring at the 

and his drowsy fellow-passengers, or
out into the blank wall of darkness, too wide
awake and full of thought to lose himself in
his usual placid slumbers. The fortunes of
the Drummond family seemed rising a little,
he thought, with pleasure. How alert and
full of energy his father had seemed when he
had parted from him at the station ; he had lost
that subdued, despondent look that had grown
on him of late. Even his shoulders were a
little less bowed, as though the burthen did
not press quite so heavily.

All this makes a great difference to me,
Archie,' he had said, as they had walked to
and fro on the platform. ' Two such wealthy
sons-in-law ought to satisfy any father's ambition.
I can hardly believe yet that my little
Mattie  whom her sisters always called " the
old maid "  should have secured such a prize.
If it had been Grace now, one need not have
wondered so much.'

You may leave Grace out of your reckoning,'
returned Archie, smiling assent to this,
and consider you have three out of your
seven daughters provided for, for Grace will
always be my care. Whatever happens in

the future, I think I can promise as much as
that.'

Aye, aye ! I remember when she was a
nettle thing she always called herself Archie's
wife. Well, well ! the mother must bring on
Clara now  it would be a shame to separate
you two. Look, there is your train, my boy !
Jump in, and God bless you ! You will comedown
to the wedding, of course, and bring
Grace.'

'Ai'chie's wife.' It was these two words
that were keeping him so wide awake in the
rushing darkness. A dusky flush mounted to
the young man's forehead as he pondered over
them.

He knew himself better now. Only a few
weeks, scarcely more than a fortnight, had
passed since Grace had given him that hint ;
but each day since then had done the work of
years. Caught at the rebound indeed, and
that so securely and strongly that the man's
heart could never waver from its fixed purpose
again.

N ow it was that he wondered at his blindness
; that he began to question with a perfect
anguish of doubt whether he should be

too late ; whether his vacillation and that useless
dream of his would hinder the fulfilment
of what was now his dearest hope.

"Would he ever bring her to believe that he
had never really loved before  not, at least,
as he could love now ? Would he ever dare
to tell her so, when she had known and understood
that first stray fancy of his for Nan's
sweet face ?

Now, as day after day he visited the cottage,
and talked apart with her mother, his eyes
would follow Phillis wistfully. Once the girl
had looked up from her work and caught that
long, watchful glance ; and then she had
grown suddenly very pale, and a pained expression
had crossed her face, as though she had
been troubled.

Since that night when the young Vicar had
stood bareheaded on the snowy steps, and had
told Phillis laughingly that one day she would
find out for herself that all men were masterful,
and she had run down the steps flashing
back that disdainful look at him, he had felt
there was a change in her manner to him.

They had been such good friends of late ;
it had become a habit with him to turn to

Phillips when he wanted sympathy. A silent,
scarcely perceptible understanding had seemed
to draw them together ; but in one moment,
at a word, a mere light jest of his that meant
nothing, the girl had become all at once
reserved, frozen up, impenetrable even to
friendship.

In vain he strove to win her back to her
old merry talk. Her frank recklessness of
speech seemed over for the present. In his
presence she was almost always silent  not
with any awkwardness of embarrassment, but
with a certain maidenly reserve of bearing, as
though she had marked out a particular line
of conduct for herself.

When Grace was in the room things were
better : Philos could not be otherwise than
affectionate to her chosen friend. And when
they were alone together all Phillis's bright
playfulness seemed to return ; but nothing
would induce her to cross the threshold of the
Vicarage.

The evening after his return from Leeds,
Archie, as usual, dropped in at the Friary ;
but this time he brought Grace with him.
They were all gathered in the work-room,

which had now become their favourite resort.
On some pretext or other, the lamp had not
been brought in ; but they were all sitting-round
the fire, chatting in an idle desultory
way.

Phillis was half hidden behind her mother's
chair  perhaps this was the reason why her
voice had its old merry chord. She had
welcomed Archie rather gravely  hardly
turning her face to him as she spoke ; but, as
soon as she was in her corner again, she took
up the thread of their talk in her usual frank
way. But it was Grace that she addressed.

Poor dear Harry ! We have all been
laughing a little at the notion of Alcides
being in love. Somehow, it seems so droll
that Mattie should turn out his Deianira ;
but, after all, I think he has shown very
good sense in his choice. Mattie will wear
well.'

You seem to agree with the ' Yicar of
Wakefield," Miss Challoner,' observed
Archie, rather amused at this temperate
praise.  Did not that excellent man choose
his wife for the same reason that she chose her
wedding-dress  with a view to durability ?'

Oh, there is a vast amount of wisdom
in all that,' returned Phillis, with mock
solemnity ; for she did not mind what
nonsense she talked in the darkness. ' If
life had nothing but fair-weather days, it
might be excusable for a man to choose his
wife for mere beauty ; but when one thinks
of fogs, and east-winds, and smoky chimneys,
and all such minor evils, they may need
something a little more sustaining than a
pink complexion. At least catching herself
up, and hurrying on as though the real
meaning of her words only just occurred to
her, ' though Mattie may not be beautiful
outwardly, she is just the right sort of person
for a regular east-windy day. Not even a
smoky chimney and a fog together will put
her out of temper.'

I will recollect your advice when the
time comes,' replied Archie rather audaciously
at this, as he laughed and stroked his
beard.

It pleased him to hear the old fun brimming
over again, fresh and sparkling ; but,
as he answered her in the same vein of
pleasantry, she coloured up in her dark

comer, and shrank back into herself, and all
the rest of the evening he could hardly win a
smile from her.

My dear, I think Mr. Drummond comes
very often,' Mrs. Challoner said to her eldest
daughter that night. ' He is very gentlemanly,
and a most excellent young man ; but
I begin to be afraid what these visits mean.'
But Nan only laughed at this.

Poor mother !' she said, stroking her
face. ' Don't you wish you had us all safe
at Glen Cottage again ? There are so few
young men at Oldfield.'

I cannot bear young men,' was the somewhat
irritable answer. ' What is the use of
having children, when just when they grow
up to be a comfort to you, everyone tries to
deprive you of them ? Dick has robbed me
of you '  and here Mrs. Challoner grew tearful
 ' and Dulce is always with the Middletonss
; and I am not at all sure that Captain
Middleton is not beginning to admire her.'

Neither am I,' observed Nan a little
gravely ; for, though they seldom talked of
such things among themselves, ' Son
Hammond's ' attentions were decidedly conspicuous,

and Dulce was looking as shy and
pretty as possible.

No ; she could not give her mother any
comfort there, for the solemn-faced young
officer was clearly bent on mischief. Indeed,
both father and son were making much of
the little girl ; but as regards Mr. Drummond
there could be no question of his intentions.
The growing earnestness, the long wistful
looks, were not lost on Nan, who knew all
such signs by experience. It was easy to
understand the young Vicar : it was Phillis
who baffled her.

They had never had any secrets between
them. From their very childhood, Nan had
shared Phillis's every thought. But once or
twice when she had tried to approach the
subject in the gentlest manner, Phillis had
started away like a restive colt, and had
answered her almost with sharpness.

Nonsense, Nannie ! "What is it to me if
Mr. Drummond comes a dozen times a day ?'
arching her long neck in the proudest way,
but her throat contracting a little over the
uttered falsehood ; for she knew, none better,
what these visits were to her. ' Do you

think I should take the trouble to investigate
his motives ? Don't you know, Nan,' in her
sweet whimsical voice, * that the masculine
mind loves to conjugate the verb *' to
amuse '' ? Mr. Drummond is evidently bored
by his own company ; but there  the vagaries
of men are innumerable. One might as well
question the ebbing tide as inquire of these
young divinities the reason of all their eccentric
actions. He comes because we amuse
him, and we like to see him because he
amuses us ; and when he bores us, we can
tell him so, which is better than Canute and
the waves, after all ;' and of course, after
this, Nan was compelled to drop the subject.

But she watched Phillis anxiously ; for
she saw that the girl was restless and ill at
ease. The thoughtful gray eyes had a
shadow in them. The bright spirits were
quenched, and only kindled by a great effort ;
and, as the time for their leaving the Friary
grew closer day by day, until the last week
approached, she flagged more, and the shadow
grew deeper.

If he would only speak and end all this
suspense !' thought Nan, who knew nothing

VOL. III. 62

of the real state of things, and imagined that
Mr. Drummond had cared for PhilHs from
the first.

They had already commenced their packing.
Sir Harry was back in his hotel, solacing
himself with his cousin's company, and
writing brief letters to his homely little
bride-elect, when one fine afternoon he met
them and Grace just starting for the shore.

This was their programme on most afternoons,
and of course they had not gone far
before Captain Middleton and his father and
sister joined them ; and a little later on, just
as they were entering the town, they overtook
Mr. Drummond.

Phillis nodded to him in a friendly manner,
and then walked on with Grace, taking no
further notice ; but when they were on the
shore, admiring the fine sunset effect, Grace
quietly dropped her arm and slipped away to
join the others ; but Phillis stood motionless :
her eyes were riveted on the grand expanse
of sky and ocean. * It is so like life,* she
said at last, not seeing who stood beside her,
while all the others were walking on in groups
of twos and threes, Dulce close to the Colonel

as usual. * Do you see those little boats,
Grace ? one is sailing so smoothly in the
sunlight, and the other scarcely stirring in the
shadow  brightness to some, you see, and
shade to others ; and beyond, that clear line
of light, like the promise of eternity

Don't you think it lies within most people's
power to make their own lives happier T returned
Archie so quietly to this that she
scarcely started ;  the sunshine and shade are
more evenly balanced than we know. To be
sure, there are some lives like that day that
is neither clear nor dark  gray, monotonous
lives, with few breaks and pleasures in them.
But perhaps even that question may be happily
solved when one looks out a little farther to
the light beyond.'

Yes, if one does not grow tired of waiting
for the answer,' she said, a little dreamily.
There is so much that cannot be clear here,'
and then she roused with a little difficulty
from her abstraction, and looked around her.
The others had all gone on ; they were standing
alone on the shingly beach, just above a
little strip of yellow sand  only they two.
Was it for this reason that her eyes grew wide

622

and troubled, and she moved away rather
hurriedly ? But he still kept close to her,
talking quietly as he did so.

Do you remember this place ?' he said ;
it reminds me of a picture I once saw. I
think it was " Atalanta's Race," only there
was no Paris. It was just such a scene as
this  there was the dark breakwater, and the
long line of surf breaking on the shore, and
the sun was shining on the water ; and there
was a girl running with her head erect, and she
scarcely seemed to touch the ground, and she
stopped just here,' resting his hand on the
black, shiny timber.

Do not,' she answered, in a low voice,  do
not recall that day ; it stings me even now to
remember it ;* and as the words ' Bravo,
Atalanta !' recurred to her memory, the hot
blush of shame mounted to her face.

I have no need to recall it,' he returned,
still more quietly, for her discomposure was
great, * for I have never forgotten it. Yes,
this is the place, not where I first saw you,
but where I first began to Imo you. Phillis,
that knowledge is becoming everything to me
now !'

Do not she said again, but she could
hardly bring out the words. But how wonderful
it was to hear her name pronounced
like that. * The others have gone on ; we
must join them.'

May I not tell you what I think about
you first T he asked, very gently.

Not now  not yet,' she almost whispered ;
and now he saw that she was very pale, and
her eyes were full of tears. ' I could not
bear it yet ;' and then, as she moved farther
away from him, he could see how great washer
agitation.

It was a proof of his love and earnestness
that he suffered the girl to leave him in this
way, that he did not again rejoin her until
they were close to the others. In spite of his
impatience and his many faults, he was
generous enough to understand her without
another word. She had not repelled him ; she
had not silenced him entirely ; she had not
listened to him and then answered him with
scorn. On the contrary, her manner had
been soft and subdued, more winning than he
had ever known it ; and yet she had refused to
hearken to his suit. ' Not now  not yet,' she

had said, and he could see her lip quivered,
and her beautiful eyes were full of tears. It
was too soon, that was what she meant ; too
soon for him to speak, and for her to listen.
She owed it to her own dignity that his affection
should be put to greater proof than that.
She must not be so lightly won ; she must
not stoop down from her maidenly pride and
nobleness at his first words because she had
grown to care for him. ' It must not be so,
however much the denial may cost me,'
Phillis had said to herself. But as she joined
the others, and came to Nan's side, she could
scarcely steady her voice or raise her eyes, for
fear their shy consciousness would betray her.
At last, ' and * at last ! '  that was the refrain that
was ringing so joyously in her heart. Welland
one day he should tell her what he would.
She thought she had silenced him entirely,
but she forgot that men were masterful,
and had cunning ways of their own to
compass their ends. Archie had recovered his
courage ; he had still a word to say, and he
meant to say it ; and just before the close of
the walk, as they were in the darkest part of
the Braidwood road, just where the trees meet

overhead, before one reaches the Vicarage,
Phillis found him again at her side.

When may I hope that you will listen ?' he
said. ' I am not a patient man  you must remember
that, and not make it too hard forme.
I should wish to know how soon I may
come.'

Spring is very beautiful in the country,'
she answered, almost too confused by this
unexpected address to know what she was
saying. ' I think May is my favourite month,
when the hawthorns are out.'

Thank you, I will come in May ;' and
then Phillis woke up to the perception of
what she had said. ' Oh no, I did not mean
that,' she began incoherently ; but this time it
was Archie who moved away, with a smile on
his face and a certain vivid brightness in his
eyes, and her stammered words were lost in the
darkness.

The whole week was much occupied by
paying farewell visits. On the last afternoon
Phillis went down to the White House to say
good-bye. It was one of Magdalene's bad
days; but the unquiet hour had passed, and
left her, as usual, weak and subdued. Her

husband was sitting beside her ; as PhilHs
entered he rose with a smile on his Hps.

'That is right, Miss Challoner !' he said
heartily. ' Magdalene always looks better
the moment she hears your voice. Barby
is unfortunately out, but I can leave her
happily with you

Is he not good ?' exclaimed his wife, as
soon as he had left them. ' He has been
sitting with me all the afternoon, my poor
Herbert, trying to curb his restlessness, because
he knows how much worse I am without him.
Am I not a trying wife to him ? and yet he
says he could not do without me. There, it
has passed ; let us talk of something else.
And so you are going to leave us ?' drawing
the fresh face down to hers, that she might
kiss it again.

Yes, tomorrow !' trying to stifle a sigh.

There are some of us that will not know
what to do without you. If I am not very

much mistaken there is one person who '

but here the girl laid her hand hurriedly on
her hips. ' What ! I am not to say that ?
well, I will try to be good. But all the same,
this is not good-bye ; tell your mother from

me, that she will not have her gMs for long.
Captain Middleton has lost his heart, and is
bent on making that pretty little sister of
yours lose hers too; and as for you,

PhiUis ' but here Philos stooped, and

silenced her this time by a kiss.

'Ah, well!' continued Magdalene, after a
moment's silence, as she looked tenderly into
the fair face before her ; ' so you have finished
your little bit of play-work, and are going
back into young ladyhood again T

It was not play-work !' returned Phillis
indignantly ; ' you say that to provoke me.
Do you know,' she went on earnestly, ' that
if we should have had to work all our lives
as dressmakers. Nan and I would have done
it, and never given in ; we were making quite
a fine business of it. We had more orders
than we could execute ; and you call that
play ? Confess, now, that you repent of that
phrase !'

Oh, I was only teasing you,' returned
Magdalene, smiling. ' I know how brave
you were, and how terribly in earnest. Yes,
PhilHs, you are right; nothing would have
daunted you ; you would have worked without

complaint all your life long, but for that repaired
Alcides of yours

Dear Harry ! how much we owe to him !'
exclaimed Phillis.

No, dear, you will owe your happiness to
yourself: the happiness,' as the girl looked
at her in surprise, ' that is coming to you and
Dulce. It was because you were not like
other girls  because you were brave, self-reliant
gentlewomen, afraid of nothing but
dishonour; not fearful of small indignities,
or other people's opinions, but just taking up
the work that lay to your hands, and going
through with it  that you have won his heart ;
and seeing this, how could he help loving you
as he does ?' but to this Phillis made no
answer.

The next day was rather trying to them
all. Phillis 's cheerfulness was a little forced,
and for some time after they had left the
Friary  with Grace and Archie waving their
farewells from the road  she was very silent.

But no sooner had they crossed the threshold
of Glen Cottage than their girlhood
asserted itself. The sight of the bright snug
rooms, with their new furniture ; the conservatory,

with its floral treasures ; and Sir
Harry's cheery welcome, as he stood in the
porch with Mrs. Mayne, was too much even
for Phillis's equanimity. In a few minutes
their laughing faces were peering out of every
window, and into every cupboard.

Oh, the dear, beautiful home ! Isn't it
lovely of Harry to bring us back!' cried
Phillis, oblivious of everything at that
moment but her mother's satisfied face.

In a few days they had settled down into
their old life. It was too early for tennis
while snowdrops and crocuses were peeping
out of the garden borders. But in the afternoon
friends dropped in in the old way, and
gathered round the Challoner tea-table ; and
very soon  for Easter fell early that year 
Dick showed himself among them, and then,
indeed, Nan's cup of happiness was full.

But as April passed on PhiUis began to
grow a little silent again ; and it became a
habit with her to coax Laddie to take long
walks with her, when Nan and Dulce were
otherwise engaged. The exercise seemed to
quiet her restlessness ; and the spring sights
and sounds, the budding hedgerows, and the

twittering of the birds as they built their
nests, and the fresh leafy green, unsoiled by
summer heat and dust, seemed to refresh her
flagging spirits.

It was the 1st of May, when one afternoon
she called to Laddie, who was lying
drowsily in the sunny porch. Nan, who was
busily engaged in training the creeper round
the pillars of the veranda, looked up in a
little surprise.

Are you going out again, Phil ? And
neither Dulce nor I can come with you.
Mrs. Mayne has some friends coming to five
o'clock tea, and she wants us to go over for
an hour. It is so dull for you, dear, always
to walk alone.'

Oh no ; I shall not be dull, Nannie,' returned
Phillis, with an unsteady smile, for her
spirits were a little fluctuating that afternoon.
I am restless, and want a good walk ; so I shall
just go to Sandy Lane, and be back in time
to make tea for mother.' And then she
waved her hand, and whistled to Laddie as
she unlatched the little gate.

It was a long walk. But as usual the quiet
and the sweet air refreshed her, and by the

time she reached Sandy Lane her eyes were
brilliant with exercise, and a pretty pink
tinge of colour was in her cheeks. ' It is May-day
 the 1st of May. I wonder how soon he
will come she thought, as she leant on the
little gate where poor Dick had leant that day.

There were footsteps approaching, but
they made no sound over the sandy ruts. A
tall man, with a fair beard and a clerical felt
hat, was walking quickly up the road that
leads from Oldfield ; and as he walked his
eyes were scanning the path before him, as
though he were looking for some one. At
the sight of the girl leaning against the
gate his face brightened, and he slackened his
steps a little, that he might not startle
her. She was looking out across the country-with
a far-off, dreamy expression, and did not
turn her head as he approached. It was
Laddie who saw him first, and jumped up
with a joyous bark to welcome him ; and then
she looked round, and for a moment her eyes
grew wide and misty, for she thought it was a
continuation of her dream.

Laddie saw me first,' he said, stepping
up quietly to her side  for he still feared to

startle her  and his voice was very gentle.
Phillis, you must not look so surprised !
Surely you expected me ? It is the 1st of
May!'

Oh, I knew that,' she said ; and then
she turned away from him. But he had not
dropped her hand, but was holding it very
quietly and firmly. * But I could not tell the
day; and '

Did you think I should wait an hour
beyond the time you fixed ?' he answered,
very calmly. ' May is your favourite month ;
and what could be more beautiful than May-day
for the purpose I have in hand ? Phillis,
you will not go back from your promise
now ? You said you would listen to me in
May.'

There was no answer to this ; but, as
Archie looked in her face, he read no repulse
there. And so in that quiet lane, with
Laddie lying at their feet, he told all he had
to tell.

Are you sure you can trust me now,
Phillis ?' he asked rather wistfully, when he
had finished. ' You know what I am, dear 
a man with many faults.'

Yes ; now and for ever she answered,
without a moment's hesitation. ' I am not
afraid ; I never should have been afraid to
trust you. I have faults of my own ; so
why should I wish you to be perfect ? I
care for you as you are ; you will believe
that ?' for there was almost a sad humility in
his face as he pleaded with her that went to
her heart.

Oh yes ; I believe what you tell me .
You are truth itself, my darling : the bravest
and truest woman I have ever met. You do
not know how happy you have made me ; or
how different my life will be when I have you
by my side. Phillis, do you knov/ how glad
Grace will be about this ?'

Will she r returned Phillis shyly. They
were walking homeward now hand in hand
towards the sunset  so, at least, it seemed to
the girl. No one was in sight, only the
quiet country round them bathed in the evening
light, and they two alone. * Archie !'
she exclaimed suddenly, and her beautiful
eyes grew wistful all at once ;  you will not
let this make any difference to Grace ? She
loves you so ; and you are all she has at

present. You must never let me stand between
you two. I am not so selfish as that.'

You could not be selfish if you tried,
dearest. How I wish Grace could have
heard you ! No ; you are right. We must
not let her suffer from our happiness. But,
Phillis, you know who must come first now )
and then, as she smiled in full understanding,
he put her hand upon his arm, and held it
there. His promised wife  archie's wife !
Ah, the Drummond star was rising now in
earnest ! His life lay before him, like the
road they were now entering, white and untrodden,
and bathed in the sunlight. What
if some clouds should come, and some
shadows fall, if they might tread it together
to the end ! And so, growing silent with
happiness, they walked home through the
sunset, till the spring dusk and the village
lights saw them standing together on the
threshold of Glen Cottage, and the dear faces
and loving voices of home closed round them,
and bade them welcome.

